GASTRIC AND INTESTINAL CONCRETIONS. 871 liable is the oat hair concretion described by Dr. WoUaston, and this only occurs in persons who live chiefly upon undressed oatmeal" {Catalogue of Calaili, p. 192), and these appear to be much less common now than they were a century ago, probably from the improvements in the dressing of oatmeal, and the decreased use of it as a food. A very interesting historical account of the miraculous curative powers which were formerly attributed to the varieties of intestinal concretions called Bezoars, and discussion of the nature and origin of intestinal concretions in general is to be found in the Catalogue of Calculi in the Royal College of Surgeons of England (ed. 1842-45), pp. 204 et seq. In regard to Bezoars it is stated that " It is not easy to determine at what period Bezoars were introduced as medicinal remedies, although there is no doubt that they were first employed by the Arabian physicians. No mention of them is to be found in the ancient G-reek and Latin authors. Nicolaus Monardes informs us that their use was first recommended by Serapion, Avicenna, Averroes and Avenzoar, names which would carry us back to the beginning of the tenth century. From the East the use of these bodies as a medicine gradually spread into Europe, where they enjoyed so much reputation that they gave the name of Bezoardics to a large class of pharmaceutical preparations supposed to be peculiarly efficacious in counteracting the effects of poison. These substances were usually of a cordial and tonic nature, although, several, as the Bezoarticum mercuriale, etc., must have been very active remedies. A severe blow was dealt to the reputation of the Bezoar as an antidote to poison by the experiment of Ambrose Pare, who administered it to a criminal condemned to death, and to whom arsenic had been previously given, with what result it is scarcely necessary to add. As a pharmaceutical agent, however, it continued to be employed in combination with other drugs for a considerable time. In Pomet's Histoire des Brogues, published in 1735, a whole chapter is devoted to the history and uses of Bezoar; and it is only within the last century that it has been expelled from our own Pharmaceutical Codex, as the mode of preparing the powder of Bezoar is to be found in the London Pharmacopoeia fm- 1746." (Loc. cit., p. 207.) Intestinal concretions always contain a large quantity of animal matter diffused throughout them. From the earthy ones it separates in thin layers when the salts are dissolved out by an acid. They usually have some foreign body, such as a pebble, nail, fruit stone, or