I'll THE DEC ID UA IN THE EARLY MONTHS. in the earlier months of utero-gestation, first discovered and described by WilHam Hunter. It is identical with the specimen from which figs. 5 and 6 of PI. XXXIV. of his Gravid Uterus was taken, except in the one respect, that the ovum here is of considerable size, whereas in the original of the figure it is very small, like that in No. 48.160. It shows, "a bristle passed into the cavity of the conception, through a hole at each of the upper angles, which was supposed to be the termination of the Fallopian tube "; and "the same bristles coming out through a larger hole at the lower angle, supposed to be opposite to the cervix uteri." "It plainly appears that the decidua, in this case, was a thick membrane (of a gelatinous texture) which had lined and adhered to the whole triangular cavity of the fundus uteri; that the tubes termin- ated on its internal surface; tliat the chorion was lodged in its duplicature, or was surrounded with its substance; and that in proportion as the chorion would have been extended, in the progress of gestation, it would have encroached upon the cavity, stretching its interior lamella (or decidua reflexa), till at length the cavity being obliterated, the interior lamella would have come into contact with the inside of the decidua." In his Midwifery Lectures (MS. E.C.S.Eng., 42, c. 31, p. 69) describing the condition of the decidua in abortions in the early months of utero-gestation, William Hunter concludes as follows: "Now then, gentlemen, as this is such a fleshy opaque membrane, the only Cjuestion that remains is this, viz., whether it is the external involucrum of the ovum or the internal membrane of the uterus. If it is the external involu- crum of the ovum it certainly has vessels from the uterus, because we always inject it from the uterus, and this looks as if it was the internal lamella of the uterus. If it was the outer covering of the foetus, the Fallopian tubes and os tincae would both come only to the outside; but as it is the reverse, and they lead to the inside, from this and its being vascular from the uterus, it is very plainly the internal membrane of the uterus. Every time a woman conceives, and every time she throws off that conception, this membrane exfoliates from the uterus; it falls off as stag's horns or bird's feathers when they are shed. This is a very extraordinary membrane which there never was before an idea of." 48.177. Decidua and Ovum of about Eight Weeks. Hunterian. RR. 243. Similar to the preceding but with almost the whole of the