397 THE TEETH. relations. The mental foramen is preserved intact. The right side shows the extent to which the teeth are embedded in the alveoli and the prominent ridges of the canine and incisor teeth of the upper jaw. Dry. The left side corresponds to Plate III., fig. 4, loc. cit. {vide introduction to series). 29.7. Lower Jaw, showing the Alveoli. Hunterian. PP. 3. The teeth have been all removed to show the alveoli and especially the thickness of the alveolar processes, which, unless at the incisors, are thinnest on the outer side back to the last two molars, where the ramus joining the alveolar part of the jaw causes the outer wall to be much thicker and stronger. The importance of this in the drawing of teeth is obvious, the socket having to be broken in the direction of least resistance. The wisdom tooth on the left side is undeveloped. Dry. (Loc. cit., PI. I., fig. 2.) 29. 8. The Alveolar Processes of the Upper Jaw. Hunterian. PP. Sa. The teeth removed to show the same as in the preceding. The thickness of the alveolar walls is about the same on both sides— rather thinner on the outside except the last two, where, as in the lower jaw, the inside is the thinner. Dry. (Loc. cit., PI. I., fig. 1.) 29.9. The Upper Teeth. Hunterian. PP. 4. The eight teeth from the left upper jaw of an adult, seen from the outside, mounted dry on blue paper, showing the three parts of the teeth—(1) hody or crown, (2) neck, and (3) root. Uppermost are the two incisors—the central one much the larger—then the canine or cuspidate and the two bicuspids, and in the bottom row the three molars. The anterior molar has three distinct fangs—two to the out- side and one to the inside; the second has the anterior outer and the inner fang coalesced; and the wisdom tooth is much smaller, and has one fang which looks like three coalesced. 29.10. Eight Teeth, showing the Parts of a Tooth. Hunterian. PP. 15. A canine, an incisor, two bicuspids, and four molars mounted dry on blue paper; the dentine of the root, being darker than the