SINGLE MONSTERS. 837 50.119. Extreme Degree of Non-formation of the Abdom- inal Walls, with Retroflexion and Peropodia. From Dr. Allen Thomson's Collection. (Schistosome.) A foetus with large and well-formed head, upper limbs, thorax, and back down to the lower dorsal region. The thoracic viscera are well formed, and the thoracic cavity closed below by a complete diaphragm. At this level the body seems to come to an abrupt end; but, on examination, it appears that an irregular mass tucked up under the left arm represents its lower half and the legs strongly retroflexed and twisted to the left. The upper side of this mass, which is really its back, lies in contact with the left side of the thorax. Its lower ed2:e consists of the anterior surface of the vertebral column covered with peritoneum. The left arm rests in a hollow on the top of the mass (which represents the lower end of the body), and the hollow is the fork of the legs. On the face of the rounded end below the fork of the legs is a little cleft, with a couple of processes like a rudimentary clitoris and its prepuce, which probably represents the external genitals; the sex is not determinable. The left thigh passes upwards and towards the right sid(% almost in direct continuity with the line of the vertebral column, the knee, which forms its end, almost reaching the face. The leg and foot are represented only by a short spike, which is doubled backwards on the thigh to a very acute angle. The right limb is buried in the body mass, but its outline can be felt through the skin. It consists of a short femur rising from near the same place as the left femur (compare No. 50.115) and passing horizontally backwards. The knee forms a rounded prominence resting on the posterior fold of the left axilla; the tibia is flexed down over the back ; its rounded end (marked with a bristle) is felt under the skin about midway between the bend of the spine and the lower end of the body. There is a deep cleft, lined by skin on both sides, between it and the body. The twisting of the spine and inversion of the limbs is an exaggerated degree of the condition seen in the preceding specimen, greatly modified in appearance by the malformation of the limbs. The abdominal parietes are completely wanting, but a membranous fringe hangs down all round from the edges of the thorax and right side of the lower half of the body, enclosing a flat circular area, which is occupied to the right by a large liver with gall bladder, to the left by a small spleen and a single kidney, which is the left one. The liver and spleen hang from the diaphragm ; the