619 PYOSALPINX. it is covered with fibrous adhesions. The right ovary was reduced to an abscess cavity buried in adhesions; its remains were scraped out, and the cavity plugged with an antiseptic dressing. The specimen illustrates the conditions most commonly found in cases of pyosalpinx. 45.20. Unusually Large Pyosalpinx. Presented hy Dr. J. K. Kelly, 1897. Uterus and Fallopian tubes, of which the following history was given by Dr. Kelly:—"J.H., aet. 33; unipara. Since birth of child, 4 years ago, has suffered from pain and sickness, and feeling of prolapsus uteri, frequent menstruation, cramps in legs, and menorrhagia. Examination revealed cystic tumour in left ovarian region, slightly tender to pressure. 29th Sept., 1894, abdominal section; first removal of right tube and ovary, then of left pyosalpinx and corpus uteri. Had a tedious recovery owing to sponge having been left in abdomen until 20th October. Dism. 28th Dec." The lower part of the preparation shows the left Fallopian tube, ovary, and broad ligament matted together and bound to the side of the uterus by fibrous adhesions; the tube alone is recognizable; it is laid open. Supravaginal amputation of the uterus was the only operation which was possible. The tube is greatly enlarged in every way, convoluted, stretched, and bent, as if round the ovary for centre, into a complete circle; it measures fully 22 cm. in length. Its diameter close to the uterus is nearly 2 cm., and increases gradually to nearly 4 cm. towards its outer end. Its walls, in different parts, measure from 2 to 6 mm. in thickness. The remains of the fimbriated extremity can be recog- nized close to the side of the uterus on the rounded end of the tube. The other tube is an ordinary small pyosalpinx. 45.21. Pyosalpinx and Hydrosalpinx. Presented hy Dr. J. K. Kelly, 1897. The body of the uterus and the altered appendages, removed by supravaginal hysterectomy; hung by the right Fallopian tube. " Mrs. B., aet. 23 ; nullipara. She had a miscarriage about the 4th mo., in Jan., 1896; since then abdominal pain and tumour. On admission, 15th Aug., 1896, uterus was found to be small, depressed, and strongly anteflexed. Large cyst in right posterior 11. P