863 GALL 8T0NE8. *52.15. Laminated Cholesterine Gall Stone. Huntenan. A large oval gall stone, 3-2 by 2*3 cm., consisting almost entirely of cholesterine. The centre is very dark loose bilirubin calcium mixed with cholesterine. Round this is a thick layer of beautiful clear crystalline cholesterine, which shows traces of lamination, then several distinct thin laminae of bilirubin calcium and cholesterine, which appears to be amorphous. The outermost shell consists of pure cholesterine. It just floats in water. " Gall stone from Mr. Jessing, passed (without any jaundice or great pain) by a woman of 60, who lived in good health two or three years afterwards and then died of an apoplexy" (Hunterian Plate I., fig. 10.) *52.16. Laminated Cholesterine Gall Stone. Hunterian. Half of a very similar calculus. The lamination is very distinct about the ends, but towards the middle the crystallized cholesterine extends right to the edge. The bile pigment matter forms several distinct strata. It floats in water easily. {Hunterian Plate I., fig. 5.) *52.17. Laminated Cholesterine Gall Stone. Hunterian. The two halves of an oval calculus of similar character. The centre is a small crystalline stone with a good deal of the dark bilirubin calcium in its centre, but the bulk of the calculus consists of very fine concentric wavy laminae of all shades (from waxy white and yellow to dark brown), according as the cholesterine or the pigment matter predominates. {Hunterian Plate I., fig. 1.) 52.18. Laminated Cholesterine Gall Stone. Hunterian. A large stone, uncut, apparently of the same class as the preceding. Its ends are faceted. A small cut surface shows the characteristic lamination. It is ver}^ heavy and unlike the preceding stones of this character; it sinks in water. It is of dark brown colour from the presence of a large amount of bilirubin calcium. 52.19. Laminated Cholesterine Gall Stone. Hunterian. A faceted gall stone of considerable size, broken into three pieces, showing the crystalline structure of the central and the