707 THE PLACENTA. 48.133. Placenta Unravelled. Foetal Portion. Hunterian. EB. 194. A portion of a much younger placenta unravelled, showing the processes containing the foetal blood-vessels much more like the foetal villi shown in Nos. 48.158 et seq. than they appear in the more fully developed organ. 48.134. Placenta Unravelled. Foetal Portion. Hunterian. BR. 195. Similar to the preceding, but a smaller portion. 48.134a. The Foetal Blood-vessels and Maternal Blood- sinuses of the Placenta. J.H.T. 1898. A section of the placenta at eight months with photomicrograph, showing the chorionic villi with their blood-vessels distended with the blood of the foetus, and Taetween them the intervillous spaces filled with maternal blood. Injected by Dr. Malcolm Black after the directions given by Dr. Thomas Watts Eden, Journal Path, and Bad., Vol. iii., p. 457. The umbilical cord, after being tied in the ordinary way, was stripped back to the placenta so as to squeeze the blood into the vessels of the villi, then tied again close to its insertion, and the whole organ fixed in MuUer's fluid. 48.135. Uterine Blood-vessels Traced into the Placenta. Hunterian. BE. 126. "A section of uterus and placenta, not injected, where some vessels have been traced by bristles from the uterus into the placenta." The following quotation from William Hunter's Descrip- tion of the Gravid Uterus, pp. 37-39, indicates the points illustrated by this and the succeeding twenty specimens : " Notwithstanding the disputes still subsisting among anatomists, whether any blood- vessels pass between the uterus and placenta, and though the texture of these vessels be so exceedingly tender that they break with the least force, they are as demonstrable, in a proper subject, as any vessel in the body, not only by injections, but in a fresh subject without any artificial preparation ; and any anatomist who has once seen and understood them, can readily discover them on the surface of any fresh placenta. The veins, indeed,