823 SINGLE MONSTERS. the foramen magnum, which is consequently incomplete. In it appears the cut end of the medulla oblongata. There is no fissure of the vertebral column. 50.84. Anencephalia. Human. Hunterian. MM. 3a. (Derencephale.) The head of an anencephalic foetus, injected red. The head is bent back, the large goggle eyes standing up as its highest point. Behind them is a fringe of hair ; then a round area covered with soft highly vascular membrane extends down to the root of the neck in place of the brain and upper part of the spinal cord. 50.85. Anencephalia. Human. Eunterian. M3I. 14. (Derencephale.) "A large child in this class, injected minutely red; the small fungus in the cleft of the head divided; it is extremely vascular in the centre, and a substance not unlike pineal gland, likewise very vascular, appears to have been surrounded by this fungus. The vertebral canal is open (dissected); spinal marrow is seen one-third its natural size; the nerves going from it small and degenerated ; the anterior parietes of thorax and abdo- men removed; the viscera of both cavities plump, large, and sound, exceedingly vascular; the size of the child upon the whole rather large." The retroflexion is less marked than in the preceding. 50.86. Anencephalia. Human. From Dr. Allen Thomson's Collection. An anencephalic foetus; the head is intact, but the vertebral column and pelvis have been carefully dissected out, and the bodies and spines of the vertebrae down to the coccyx carefully removed, leaving only the series of lateral masses. The dura mater has then been dissected away before and behind to show the spinal cord and nerves. The base of the skull is covered, as in the preceding monsters, by a loose sac of thin membrane continuous at the edges with the skin and below witli the dura mater of the spinal cord. The spinal cord is represented by a thin transparent ribbon of membrane resembling pia mater, which can be traced above into continuity with an indistinct inner lining of the membranous sac.