492 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 36.95. Healed Ulcers of the Intestine. Hunterian. P. 97. A portion of small intestine, inverted and injected red, from the same subject as No. 36.77 ; showing flat, smooth, translucent surfaces, corresponding in size, shape, and position with Peyer's patches. The case from which they are said to have been taken was tubercular ulceration of the intestines with peritonitis, but these resemble more the cicatrices of former typhoid ulcers. The cica- trices are markedly less vascular than the surrounding mucous membrane. 36.96. Healed Ulcers of the Intestine. Hunterian. P. 98. Another portion of the same intestine, inverted and distended with spirit, showing a number of similar cicatrices. Injected red. 36.97. Acute Peritonitis with Miliary Tuberculosis of the Intestines. Hunterian. p. S7aa. A portion of intestines, " from a child who died of peritonitis," highly injected red, slit open, showing on the outside numerous shreds of fibrin, the result of acute peritonitis; also dotted over with a profusion of white spots about the size of mustard seeds, which microscopic examination shows to be tubercles in the sub- peritoneal connective tissue. The mucous membrane shows two Peyer's patches, but there is no ulceration, and there are no tubercles in it. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 68.) Compare succeeding specimens. 36.98. Acute Peritonitis with Miliary Subperitoneal Tubercles. Hunterian. P. 86&. A loop of intestine with mesentery, from the same case of peri- tonitis, the two limbs of the loop glued together by fibrinous exuda- tion. The fine injection with vermilion shows up the exudation, and also gives a beautiful naked-eye demonstration of the avas- cularity of tubercular new formations. The mesentery as well as the intestine is dotted with miliary tubercles, which, in the cut edge, can be seen to be subperitoneal. They are very numerous in the angle beside the attachment of the bowel to the mesentery, and coalescing, form considerable flat masses, extending under the peritoneum, but apparently not going deeply into the bowel wall. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 68.)