634 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 45.76. Carcinoma of the Cervix Uteri. Eunierian. CC. \0\h. The specimen consists of a cervix uteri which has grown into a large ragged ulcerating tumoui'. The vagina, which is but little ulcerated in comparison to the preceding specimens when the great size of the tumour is considered, is turned up like a collar round the neck of the tumour. 45.77. Carcinoma of the Cervix Uteri. Large Tumour. Hunterian. CC. 104. The contents of the pelvis divided in median antero-posterior section, showing a huge ragged tumour of the cervix uteri, with extensive infiltration of surrounding tissues. The shape of the tumour is pyramidal; the vaginal surface, which forms the base, is roughly circular, and measures fully 12 cm. (nearly 5 inches) in diameter. The growth has distended the vagina without in- volving its walls to any great extent; the ulceration, as in the preceding, affecting the face of the tumour, and not much the edge near the vaginal wall. The specimen also shows how, even in a very late stage, the body of the uterus may be very little involved. The broad ligaments, bladder, rectum, and uterus are all matted together; a considerable portion of the upper part of the tumour appears to be infected lymphatic glands. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 142.) 45.78. Carcinoma of the Cervix Uteri. Hunterian. CC. 104^. The other part of the preceding. 45.79. Carcinoma of the Cervix Uteri. Hunterian. CC. 104c?. Right half of uterus and vagina, showing the above. The tumour is of considerable size, fully 6 cm. in diameter, and affects chiefly the posterior half of the cervix. There is great ulceration of the large mass which is situated posteriorly, but this is confined to the face turned towards the cavity of the cervix, and does not pass on to the vaginal wall. The smaller anterior portion, while showing complete replacement of the muscular tissue by tumour, is still enclosed in unbroken mucous membrane. A mass of enlarged glands, about the size of a walnut, and several smaller ones, carefully dissected, hang from the broad ligament. The epithelial elements have fallen out, and the tumour presents a peculiar spongy appearance. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 143.)