HUNTEIUAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. ■662 the ninth month, occupying the pelvis and the largest anterior part of the abdomen; the intestines are behind, above, and chiefly to the left of the uterus; it is not of a regular pyriform appearance, but there are eminences and cavities on its surface, owing to the shape of the child's body underneath; the bladder is seen compressed into a flattish form between uterus and pubis, and the external parts of generation are in situ; the arteries and veins on the uterus large." " Its situation is a little oblique and towards the right side." The swelling to the right side of the fundus is caused by the buttocks of the child; that to the left by the placenta. At either side are seen the Fallopian tube and round ligament. On the left the spermatic vessels occupy the space between the tube behind and the round ligament in front. The artery is very small compared to the vein, and runs a winding course over it. The pudenda were oedematous. 48.2. The Uterus at the End of the Ninth Month of Pregnancy. From the Right Side. Hunterian Cast No. 2. RR. 2. A cast in plaster of Paris identical with the preceding, but placed so as to give the view depicted in PI. II. of Hunter's Gravid Uterus, viz., that from the right side. The trunk has been cut away down to the level of the diaphragm, which is preserved along with part of the lower ribs and ensiform cartilage, so as to keep all the abdominal viscera in their natural position. The ends of the aorta and oesophagus (tied together) and vena cava project from the diaphragm. The edge of the liver projects below the diaphragm with the falci- form ligament visible in the longitudinal fissure. Below it appear the cut edge of the omentum and one or two turns of intestine. The uterus is as in the preceding. In the side view, the relations to it of the Fallopian tube and round ajid broad ligaments appear more clearly. 48.3. The Uterus at the End of the Ninth Month of Pregnancy. From the Left Side. Hunterian Cast No. 3. Identical with the preceding, but viewed as in PI. III. of Hunter's Gravid Uterus. On the extreme left, below the edge of the liver, is seen a small area of the great extremity of the stomach, below and overlapping which appears the anterior edge of the spleen,