EMBRYOLOGY. DEVELOPMENT OF THE CHICK. 845 51.13. Development of the Chick. (After His.) From Dr. Allen Thomson's Collection. Models 7, 8, and 9. MoDKL 7. Same Stage, with parts of the lower layer of blasto- derm and fold of the amnion removed to show the under surface of the head and the development of the heart. Compare No. 51.16. The primitive fore gut can be seen running up towards the head, behind the heart, now enclosed to a considerable degree by the union in front of it of the splanchnopleuric folds. Model 8. Same Stage, dorsal layers (epiblast and somatopleuric mesoblast) removed, showing the under layers of the blastoderm —splanchnopleuric mesoblast and hypoblast; in the former the arteries and area vasculosa are in process of formation, and the red blood appearing for the first time in isolated spots (blood islands). Two of the aortic (branchial) arches have been formed. Model 9. Same Stage. Longitudinal section, showing the side view of the cerebral vesicles, heart and arteries, and also the cardinal veins, and the right vitelline (omphalo-meseraic) vein cut across. The right optic vesicle is well defined. Shows also the right portions of the series of mesoblastic somites. 51.14. Development of the Chick. (After His.) From Dr. Allen Thomson!s Collection. Models 10 and 11. Model 10. Eighth Stage. Commencement of the cranial flexure, formation of the optic cup and lens, appearance of the visceral (branchial) clefts. The tubular heart has become doubled ■on itself, and the differentiation of the ventricular, auricular, and aortic bulbar portions is quite distinct. See also next model. Model 11. Same Stage dissected, showing the cerebral vesicles, optic cup, otic pit (red), heart, and blood-vessels, three aortic arches complete, and a fourth in process of development. Shows also the intestine—the fore gut with the aortic arches encircling it, commencing invagination of the mouth towards the blind end of the fore gut, and commencing enclosure of the hind and mid guts. Compare No. 51.17.