DISEASES OF THE TONGUE AND PHARYNX. 421 32.6. Diphtheritic (?) Exudation in the Pharynx and Orifice of the Larynx. Hunterian. GG. 4:1 a. The larynx with part of the trachea and pharynx opened behind, showing the above. The exudation is mostly in the pharynx, but extends into the larnyx. Formerly described as " Pharynx and oesophagus slit open; to show the coagulable lymph, forming an inflammatory crust which lines these parts, and covered also the tongue; in a child who died of thrush." Figured in Matthew Baillie's Engravings, Fasc. III., PI. II., fig. 1: "The layer of white matter which lines the cavity of the pharynx and oesophagus in thrush." Probably from a case of diphtheria. 32.7. Diphtheritic <?) Exudation in the Pharynx. Hunterian. GG. 4165. The tongue, larynx, and pharynx of a woman who died of "putrid sore throat," showing a thin layer of fibrinous exudation about the pharynx and orifice of the larynx. " Case, Mrs. M. The exudation or inflammatory membrane reached the oesophagus itself." Probably from a case of diphtheria. V. Tumours of the Pharynx. 32.8. Pulsion Diverticulum of the Pharynx. Hunterian. 0. 43. The larynx and part of the pharynx and oesophagus of a man, the posterior wall of the pharynx laid open and partly removed, showing a large pouch formed from the posterior wall of the pharynx just at its junction with the oesophagus. Two quills show the passage of the oesophagus. The following account of the case is taken from Medical Observations and Inquiries, Vol. III., p. 85 : "A Case of Obstructed Deglutition, from a Preternatural Dilatation of, and Bag formed in the Pharynx, in a letter from INIr. Ludlow, Surgeon at Bristol, to Dr. William Hunter." A gentleman, set. 60, swallowed a cherry-stone, which lodged in his throat, and was returned three days later, a feeling of soreness remaining for a considerable time. About a year later, he noticed that an hour or two after a meal a small part of the food was returned, apparently unaltered, and without any preceding sick-