730 EUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 48.181. Decidua and Ovum, about Three Months Old. Huntcrian. L'lL 249. "An ovum between three and four months old." The ovum enclosed in the decidua reflexa is about 7 cm. in diameter. This membrane is thin and membranous but fairlj' opaque. The decidua is completely opened and inverted, showing the angle of reflexion of the decidua reflexa, and the orifices of the Fallopian tubes opening on the internal surface of the decidua vera. On the other side is seen the decidua serotina covering the exterior of the placenta, torn in several places revealing the chorionic villi embedded in it. 48.182. Gravid Uterus about the Eighth Week. Decidua and Ovum. Hnnterian. RE. 270. " An uterus laid open, about 8 weeks pregnant; showing the ovum entirely confined to the fundus uteri; the decidua vera and reflexa." The decidua vera is seen to be the mucous membrane of the uterus and continuous with that of the cervix. A bristle is passed along the left Fallopian tube, which is slit up into its cavity, and appears lying in front of the decidua reflexa. There is a hole at the lower part of the decidua reflexa, marked by bristles, which is " that which would be made by the child in passing from the uterus, but now has been made artificially." The sac of the decidua reflexa has collapsed. It covers the whole back of the cavity of the uterus from the fundus down almost to the OS internum of the cervix. 48.183. Gravid Uterus in the Third Month. Decidua and Embryo. From Dr. Allen Thomson's Collection. A human gravid uterus and its appendages, probably between the tenth and twelfth week of gestation. The uterus measures 9 cm. in diameter. It has been injected red, apparently with vermilion, and is laid open from before. Two incisions have been carried from the corners just above and passing in front of the Fallopian tubes to the cervix, joined there by a cross cut, and the flap reflected upwards (lower part of it cut away) displaying the cavity of the decidua (vera) and the rounded sac of the decidua reflexa attached to the posterior wall of the uterus