HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. (b) Congenital Cystic Transformation of the Kidneys. 4-1.47. Cystic Transformation of the Kidneys. Hunterian. X. 85. One half of a kidney greatly increased in size, and apparently composed of a congeries of thin walled cysts of various sizes, with traces of renal tissue between. "An attempt was made towards injecting them, but they were too tender to bear it; masses of the injection are seen about the pelvis of the organ. (From Mr. C. Hawkins, St. George's Hospital.)" (Matthew Baillie's Moi-bid Anatomy, Fasc. VI., PI. VH., fig. 1 and 2.) 41.48. Cystic Transformation of the Kidneys. Hunterian. X. 86. The other half of the preceding. 41.49. Cystic Transformation of the Kidneys. Hunterian. X. 87. "The kidneys of Mr. Hume, Navy Surgeon, who died of the gout in his stomach, had sometimes suppression of urine, and was supposed to have the stone in his bladder, which was imagined to be cured for two years before he died, by eating honey. The kidneys are transformed into a larger mass of hydatids than was ever seen before, some of them as large as one's fist, many of them as large as an orange, others like plums, etc. ; a little portion of corticle substance remains unchanged and injected red, but there is even here something like disposition to become hydatid; he made water freely enough. The aorta and cava, for some way above and below the emulgents, lie on the upper part of the preparation, the kidneys being in their place as nearly as possible with respect to the body supine. There was a stone of a hemi- spherical shape, and half an inch in diameter, in the pelvis of one kidney." The term "suppression of urine" is commonly used by William Hunter and his contemporaries, with the meaning of "retention of urine," i.e. it is secreted but cannot be voided. He says, however, in his lectures (MS. R.C.S. Eng. 42, c.29, p. 477), speaking of "total suppression": "I do not mean a suppression of its evacuation from the bladder, but a suppression of its secretion from the blood." Here it probably meant only retention. Compare No. 43. 48.