DOUBLE MONSTERS. 783 the more perfectly formed monsters, e.g. the specimens of appended hind limbs are placed at the beginning of the Terata Anadidyma as examples of duplicitas posterior. («) Terata Katadidyma. Monstrosities by Duplicity of the Anterior (or Superior) Parts. 50.1. Chicken with Doubling of Upper Part of Beak. Hnnterian. The specimen is a newly hatched chicken. The lower jaw (mandible) presents the normal appearance. The upper jaw (maxilla) is divided into two widely diverging processes. Each of these appears to be a complete, but not quite perfectly developed, upper jaw. Their external sides are twisted, but otherwise per- fectly formed. On the internal sides the basal part of the horny beak is very small, suggesting that the condition is really only a splitting of a single beak ; but, on the other hand, the point of each process is a perfectly formed beak; each has a pair of ceres with a pair of nostrils below them, and the palate in each is fully formed as in a properly developed animal, consisting of two lateral parts and a median septum ; and there are two openings of posterior nares separated by the septa at the back of each process. There is no trace of an eye between the beaks. It is about the least possible degree of anterior duplicity. Comj)are No. 50.15. 50.2. Diprosopus Triophthalmus. Pig. Hunterim. MM. 37. (Opodyme.) The anterior parts of a pig "at the full time," comprising the forelegs, thorax, and neck, bearing two heads united by the adjacent surfaces of the crania. The angle between the two snouts is an acute one. The right head is larger and better formed than the left, of which "the under jaw is wanting." The snouts are separate back to about the position of the eyes, beyond which point the two heads are completely fused. There are two frontal bones, four parietal bones (the inner two fused together), and a single occipital bone which is abnormally broad. The vertebral column is quite single. The eyes on the outer sides appear normal. The third, placed in the angle between the two faces, is single, but the eyelids