HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 020 part of pelvis, and smaller cyst on left side; tubes on both sides passing into the tumours. Diagnosis, double pyosalpinx. 21st Aug., abdominal section. I-eft hydrosalpinx, containing about 19 ounces of fluid, was removed (the large extremity of the left tube filled the right posterior quadrant of the pelvis); then the small right pyosalpinx, containing about 2 ounces of pus (to which and to the right angle of the uterus the lower edge of the omentum was attached), was removed along with the corpus uteri. 21st Sept., dismissed well." The right tube is considerably enlarged, elongated, and convoluted, not much enlarged close to the uterus, but fully 3 cm. in diameter in the outer segment. A mass of omentum adheres to it. The left tube is very greatly enlarged, convoluted, and stretched out to a length of about 25 cm. Like the other it is small at its inner end, increases gradually in size for the inner two-thirds to a diameter of 3 cm., and the outer segment is expanded into a thin walled cyst about the size of the foetal head at term. The ovaries are seen lying in the concavities of the twisted tubes, to all appearance normal. 45.22. Pyosalpinx and Suppuration in a Cystic Ovary. Presented btj Dr. J. K. Kelly, 1898. The Fallopian tube and ovary of both sides, removed from a case of double pyosalpinx. On the right the ovary is about the size of a hen's egg, the enlargement being chiefly due to the presence of a large simple cyst, which was full of very foetid pus. The tube lies on the ovary, buried in a mass of fibrous adhesions ; it is somewhat thickened, and contains a little pus. The left tube is also only slightly thickened, and contains very little pus. Its fimbriated extremity is planted on the end of the ovary like a bell mouth, and bound to it round the edges by fibrous adhesions. In section the ovary shows numbers of Graafian follicles, which were not in a state of suppuration. 45.23. Hypertrophic Endometritis. Eunterian. BE. 119. Uterus laid open from behind, showing the cavity slightly en- larged, and the mucous lining greatly thickened and thrown into irregular nodules and ridges. Apparently a condition of inflam- matory over-growth of the mucous membrane. The uterus is closely bound to the back of the bladder by perimetritic adhesions.