HUNT BRIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 518 distended that I thought I could, with as much ease as I could open a vein with a lancet in bleeding, have punctured the bladder through the rectum, and evacuated its whole contents. I tried to pass up the urethra different sized catheters, but I found it impossible to get any of them farther than the prostate gland." The bladder was then tapped above the pubis, and " three pints of high-coloured urine tinged with blood" removed. The patient was much relieved, yet the tumour in the abdomen was still very considerable, and reached above the navel, and that which was felt in the rectum not perceptibly diminished. A cannula was kept in the bladder. About a fortnight later suppuration set in around the wound, and he died on July 25th (apparently of septicaemia). "Upon opening the body the first appearance was the omentum almost wasted away, but upon it there were several large irregular encysted tumours, each as large as a hen's egg, filled partly with a serous fluid and partly with a gelatinous substance. On removing the omentum a large body (nearly as big as a quart bottle without the neck) presented itself, very much distended with a fluid, not connected with anything at top, or at its anterior part, for some inches; but backwards, strongly adhering to all the parts contained in the pelvis, and nearly filling the whole cavity of it. Two or three inches below the navel the bladder came to view on the fore-part of this pre- ternatural body, quite collapsed, containing not above two or three large spoonfuls of urine. I now took notice that, upon my dissecting away the parietes of the abdomen, the urine issued out from the puncture I had made into the bladder, in the first operation, which had been healed externally some consider- able time. " The kidneys were double their natural size, and in the pelvis of the right was nearly a spoonful of matter. The ureters were very little larger than natural, and except a little tumour, about the size of a goose's egg, on the convex surface of the right lobe of the liver, of the same sort as before taken notice of on the omentum, I observed nothing particular. " This disease, from the account I could get, had been of six years' standing; it had, for certain, been of more than a year, as he was obliged, about that time, to apply to a gentleman of the faculty, who relieved him by bleeding and some laxative physic." "The cyst of the tumour was capable of holding a full quart