563 THE DESCENT OF THE TESTICLES. iliac spine to the umbilicus, and the thighs cut away; the remainder of the abdominal walls and the scrotum carefully dissected, showing the condition depicted in Plate II., which may have been taken from this dissection, the view of the upper part of the right processus vaginalis and the viscera being added from some other specimen not now in the collection. The jjenis and the central portion of the scrotum remain, and on either side the processus vaginalis of the peritoneum is dissected up to the external ring. On the right a strip has been cut out of it and turned up on the abdomen, revealing the testicle and epididymis and the ridge of the spermatic vessels projecting into its cavity. Two bent bristles are passed up into the abdominal cavity. " N.B.—The peritoneum lies before the spermatic vessels and vas deferens, or covers them within the abdomen, and its process or elongation covers them in the same manner all the way from the abdominal muscles downwards, so that if the intestine slips down after the testis in a foetus it must be placed before the spermatic vessels and vas deferens." On the left it is seen as if "a little distended with air or water poured into it from the cavity of the abdomen." Behind are seen the rectum turned down and the bladder nearly empty, its apex stretching up on the abdominal wall, attached to the umbilicus by the urachus and the umbilical arteries on either side, and a little external to these the orifices of the processus vaginales not yet closed (the ends of the bristles showing in the right one). " It is evident that part of the peritonaeum, which, in this figure, is carried down in the form of a hernial sac to a little below the testis, lies before the testis, epididymis, spermatic vessels, and vas deferens, and that it covers those parts in the same manner as it covers the abdominal viscera, viz., the pos- terior part of the sac (supposing the sac to be cut lengthways into two halves) is united with them and gives them a smooth surface, while the anterior half of the sac lies loose before them, and may be removed to some distance from them, as when the sac is distended with water." Compare No. 42.65. 42.63. The Testicles in a Foetus "about Seven Months." The Left outside and the Right inside the Abdomen. Hunterian. Y. 56ffl. Lower part of the trunk as in No. 42.60, with part of the