DOUBLE MONSTERS. 793 50.17. Dipygus Tribrachius. Kitten. Hunterian. MM. 65. (Deradelphe.) Female. Described formerly as a "kind of double kitten, where the head is single and two bodies joined together at the spine ; there are four hinder legs, and only three fore legs, one of Avhich is small, crooked, and placed in the middle of the back." The nature of the fusion is exactly the same as in the preceding chicken, but goes a little further in the fore limbs. The vertebral columns join in the upper dorsal region; the Avhole cervical region is completely single; cervical vertebrae and head are well formed. Fusion of the bodies extends down to the common umbilicus. The posterior arm is articulated just below the point of fusion of the vertebral columns. It consists of a paw, forearm, and a rounded cartilaginous socket attached by muscles and ligaments to the skeleton. The paw has only the usual number of digits (five), but its double origin is shown by the perfect bilateral symmetry in the outer ones, both of which present the characters of fifth toes, and by the presence of two carpal tubercles. These two points indicate that the limb contains the elements of two fore limbs united by their inner (or, taking the embryonic position, anterior) borders, just as in the preceding specimen. Below this limb is a breast surface smaller than that in front, but constituted as described in the introduction to the section, viz. one half of the sternum and ribs belongs to each vertebral column. It was partly dissected for examination, and the skin afterwards replaced. Compare succeeding dipygus tetra- brachius and syncephalus. 50.18. Dipygus Tribrachius. Kitten. Hunterian. MM. 65a. (Deradelphe.) The specimen is similar to the preceding in every respect, except that there is a deformity of the nose and mouth. The lower jaw and tongue are cleft, and the two superior maxillary and the intermediate processes are separated. These processes, further back, are united by soft tissues, completely shutting oft" the mouth from the pharynx. Female. 50.19. Dipygus Tetrabrachius Synbrachius. Fallow Deer. Hunterian. (Deradelphe.) A monstrosity of the fallow deer stuffed. The manner of union is similar to that in the preceding kittens, but