537 RENAL CALCULUS. calculus with a small brown tip, which is impacted in the ureter. The kidney is opened at various places, showing the thinness of the walls. The septa between the loculi show that they originate from greatly dilated calyces—the lobulation of the cyst resembles that seen in the foetal human kidney, in which each lobule consists of a portion of cortex with a medullary pyramid, each pyramid being embraced by a separate calyx. The small brown stone appears to have been the starting point of the disease; it is composed of calcium oxalates coated with mixed phosphates of calcium and magnesium. The large white mass has been added later, and it also consists of mixed phosphates. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 128. Matthew BaiUie's Engravings, Fasc. VI., PI. VI.) 41.17. Calculus Impacted low down in the Ureter. Hydro- nephrosis followed by Contraction of the Kidney. Hunterian. X. 107. A kidney injected red, with the ureter and trigon of the bladder, partly slit open, showing the upper part of the ureter and the pelvis and calyces dilated in the usual manner. There has been considerable atrophy of the kidney, which has been followed by contraction, and the kidney is now of small size. The calculus is about the size of a kidney bean. It is impacted about 5 cm. from the bladder. Composed of mixed phosphates. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 128.) 41.18. Renal Calculus Impacted in the Ureter. Pyo- nephrosis. Hunterian. X. 91. A kidney and part of the ureter, one side cut away, showing a small calculus in the ureter, and the whole organ converted into a loculated cyst with fairly thick walls. It was "filled with scrophulus pus—a substance thick and cheesy, or like mortar just ready to be used for building." This matter has been removed. Apparently an old calculous pyonephrosis, in which the pus was beginning to be infiltrated with calcareous matter. The specimen is considerably smaller than a normal kidney. 41.19. Renal Calculus. Complete Destruction of the Kidney. Hunterian. X. 107a. This and the following specimen are described as " the kidneys