THE PLACENTA AND UMBILICAL CORD. 689 hard and compact in its texture, and beautifully marked by the ramifications of the umbilical vessels. The navel string, which produces these branching vessels, is inserted sometimes into the very centre, but more commonly a little nearer the edge, and often into the very edge of the placenta. In at least four different cases, I have seen the navel string terminate on the inside of the mem- branes at a distance of five or six inches from the placenta. In all these cases the umbilical vessels parted from one another, even to a considerable distance in their course upon the membranes, and came to the edge and inner surface of the placenta at different places, even at the opposite parts. The termination or insertion of the navel string, wherever it happens to be, makes the centre of ramification for the large vessels on the internal surface of the placenta. The internal surface of the placenta is covered with the membranes amnion and chorion, and the external with the decidua, of which hereafter." {Description of the Gmmd Uterus, p. 31.) The decidua is described under No. 48.106. 48.84. The Placenta and Umbilical Cord. Hunterian. RR. 85. A similar specimen, " very beautiful; arteries red, and veins yellow, injected with yolks of eggs." The process of preparing a placenta for injection, as described in the Descriptmi of the Gh-avid Uterus (p. 34), is as follows : " After common labours the placenta is generally more or less torn, and its vessels contain a quantity of coagulated blood; on both of which accounts it is unfit for a successful injection. I have generally taken care, by a previous management, to procure a favourable subject, and would recom- mend the same method to those who have the opportunity, viz., when the navel string is tied and cut, not only to allow the end of the string to bleed from the placenta, but milk it continually till the placenta comes down into the vagina; and, in taking that away, be slow, cautious, and gentle, leaving it principally to the gradual pressure from the mother, and very gently pulling by the navel string; thus it will neither be bruised nor torn, and it will be almost empty of blood. Instantly put it into a basin of warm water, with the inner surface upwards. What blood remains in the vessels will still be fluid enough to be pressed from those on the surface of the placenta into and then along the vessels of the string. Then turn up the external surface, wash and press it very gently,