DEVELOPMENT OF THE HUMAN OVUM. 719 everywhere covered with the shaggy villi of the chorion. At one point these are noticeably less developed than elsewhere; here is seen the little chorionic vesicle enclosing the amnion and embryo (not themselves visible). It is about 6 mm. in diameter, and unopened. The whole ovum is about 1 cm. in diameter. 48.160. Very Young Human Ovum and Decidua. Dr. Mackenzie. 1835. The label on the jar states that " this specimen was examined by Sir T. Wharton Jones, and by him described in Philosophical Transactions for 1837, p. 341." The following is his account of it: "In the spring of 1836 I examined a small human ovum sent to me to Cork, where I then was, from Glasgow, by Dr. Mackenzie. In his letter to me, dated November 29, 183.5, he describes it thus : ' A very small human ovum. It came along with the entire decidua from a patient of mine. It lay in the middle of one of the parietes of the decidua, rather near its upper edge, and was about the size of a marrowfat pea, before being put into spirits. The decidua covering it, towards the hydroperionic cavity,^ was thin and semi-transparent, but the opposite portion of the decidual nidamentum was thick and marked with foramina, as if from vessels which had adhered to it, (really the cavities of dilated uterine glands). ' Having opened the nidamentum and taken out the ovum, I observed what will immediately strike you, that one side of it was bald and the other shaggy with the villi of the chorion. The bald part lay towards the hydroperionic cavity. A small puncture was made through the chorion, and perhaps through the amnion, by which some fluid escaped; nothing more was attempted. The Fallopian portions of the decidua measured nearly half an inch, and were both entire.'" In a subsequent letter Dr. Mackenzie says, in reference to the age of this ovum, "the ovum in question, I consider, as three or four weeks old. The lady had missed one menstrual period, and thought herself four weeks gone." Sir T. Wharton Jones continues : " On laying open the ovum, by carefully cutting and reversing the bald side of the chorion, the following appearances (delineated, natural size, in fig. 7) presented themselves. The whole cavity of the chorion was filled with a fine gelatinous cellular tissue, embedded in which, towards one extremity 1 Hydroperionic cavity is a term formerly used to denote the cavity of the decidua vera.