V44 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. previous specimen (mucous membrane of the gravid uterus of the sow) shows the maternal portion of a diffused placenta of a similar, if slightly simpler, form. As in it, there is no regular decidua shed along with the chorion, but it is probable that there is some maternal tissue entangled among the chorionic processes. Compare Placenta of Sheep, No. 48. 244. 48.231. " Chorion of Mare." Hunterian. EE. 234a. Another portion of the same, dried, and the inner surface turned to the observer to show the rich plexus of arteries and veins belonging to the foetal part of the placenta. The arteries are injected red, the veins yellow. 48.232. Placentula of Cow. Foetal and Maternal Struc- tures partly separated. Polycotyledonary Placen- tation. Hunterian. EE. 314. " A portion of the gravid uterus from the cow, injected; showing the infantile part of the placenta partly separated from the maternal, which arises from the uterus like a rounded sponge, having irregular openings on its surface to receive the processes of the infantile part; the infantile part is highly injected from the vessels of the navel string." The chorionic villi form beautiful feathery tufts. The placenta in the cow is formed of a consider- able number of these placentulae, scattered over the inside of the uterus. Compare No. 48. 240. 48.233. Foetal Part of Placentula of Cow. Hunterian. EE. 315. The foetal part of a similar placentula, separated from the mater- nal. " It looks a good deal like the unravelled human placenta, but consists more of separated bundles of vessels." Each bundle represents a highly developed villus of the chorion. It forms a tuft, about 1 cm. long, consisting of a central stem with innumer- able delicate processes spreading out in all directions like the branches of a pine tree from the trunk. In some the stem is also branched. The vessels of the chorionic villi are finely injected red. 48.234. Foetal Part of Placentula of Cow. Hunterian. EE. 316. Similar to the preceding, but more finely injected. The parts