HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 790 however, all four limbs are fairly well developed; and whereas the outer leg of the left pelvis is better developed than the median, the median leg of the right pelvis is better developed than the outer one. There is only one tail, which is directed if anything to the right. Close under and rather to the right of the tail is an anus, and a second anus lies about To cm. to the left of the tail. From these two anuses diverge two smooth-skinned raphes leading to two sets of male external genitals, which lie at some distance from one another, between the outer leg and adjacent appended leg on either side. There is no reversing of the extra legs, which are clearly the left leg of the right pelvis and the right leg of the left pelvis. The condition of the pelvic bones cannot be made out in the present condition of tlie specimen. 50.14. Dipygus Dibrachius. Kitten. Hunterian. MM. 28. (Thoradelphe.) "A kitten (female) with a single head, brain wanting, mouth and nose imperforated. Body double, contents of chest single, of pelvis double; body only becomes double below diaphragm." The distinctness of the two pelves and the singleness of the thorax are absolutely perfect. The head shows the conditions of anencephalia, agnathia, and cyclopia; the most striking object about it is the large and prominent eyeball; it is compounded of two eyeballs fused together, and it protrudes from a wide circle of compound eyelid on the summit of the head. There is about two-thirds of each globe in the compound eyeball; the two corneae are quite distinct. A rounded hairy knob below the ej^e represents the upper maxillary processes; there is a trace of a mouth on its under side; no trace of olfactory organ or lower jaw ; the ears are fused across the front of the throat. (Opocephale.) 50.15. Dipygus Dibrachius. Pig. Hunterian (1). (Thoradelphe.) Montrosity of pig stuffed. It has one head, one thorax with single pair of fore limbs, abdomen double from the um- bilicus, two distinct pelves, and four hind limbs. The lower jaw is also double, showing four distinct rows of teeth in front. The inner sides of the two mandibles are fused. The tongue is also double, and the pharynx is divided by a narrow septum. No other evidence of