752 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. distinct than in the former preparations." The sac of the allan- tois is quite distinct, occupying the corner between the branching umbilical vessels. Compare next specimen. 48.261. Placenta and Umbilical Vessels. Dog. Hunterian. RR. ■—. A puppj'-, with the placenta partly injected red from the uterus. The abdomen is opened and the umbilical cord dissected, showing the manner in which the vessels branch in the cord and are dis- tributed to the placenta in about four sets. 48.262. Placenta, Decidua, and Omphalo-mesenteric Ves- sels in a Foetal Dog. Hunterian. RR. 334. A foetal dog, with the placenta coarsely injected red from the mother. " Amnion opened and abdomen opened, showing omphalo- mesenteric vessels ; decidua behind partly detached." The omphalo- mesenteric (omphalo-meseraic) vessels—the remains of the vessels of the umbilical vesicle—appear as two little white threads which detach themselves from the umbilical cord just inside the umbilicus, and run across the peritoneal cavity to the root of the mesentery. 48.263. Placenta and Omphalo-mesenteric Vessels. Dog. Hunterian. RR. 335. A similar specimen. " The last mentioned vessels seen injected, and the placenta injected to great minuteness both from foetus and mother." The omphalo-mesenteric vessels are very distinct. The maternal structures covering the exterior of the placenta are finely injected and very distinct, showing that the shed placenta in the dog is composed of a foetal portion and a maternal portion which is thrown off along with it—a distinct and definite decidua. 48.264. Omphalo-mesenteric Vessels. Dog. Hunterian. —. A consideral)ly larger foetal dog, the abdominal parietes removed, and the mesentery spread out. The bladder and part of the umbilical cord are held up by a thread; from the position where the abdominal walls formed the umbilicus, two white threads are seen passing to join the blood-vessels of the mesentery at two points which lie a considerable distance from one another.