588 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. employed and made a false road, pointed out by the most anterior bristle; there was a large fistulous orifice in perinaeo, leading into a large ulcerated ragged cavity, which extended towards each tuberosity of the ischium; from this sinuses led through the sub- stance of each corpus cavernosum almost to the glans, and one of these is pointed out by a bougie; the bladder itself is thickened and fasciculated, and there are several orifices leading from the bulb of the urethra into the just now described cavity in perinaeo." 43.38. Stricture of the Urethra; Dilatation and Ulcera- tion behind it; Extravasation of Urine; Abscess in the Perinaeum. Hunterian. BB. 58b. " The same parts nearly, from a sergeant in Burgoyne's light horse (an out-pensioner, Chelsea Hospital). There is stricture one inch and a half in length, about two inches within the urethra. He had kept this concealed for many years: meanwhile the urine pressing behind had ulcerated and dilated urethra, so large as to receive the first joint of one's thumb; there was also an abscess unsuspected in perinaeo. The suppression of urine had not been total till twenty-four hours before I was called ; no catheter or bougie could pass, but a common probe passed, and the urine followed. It was twenty-four hours before I was sent for again; I found the urine had got into the cellular membrane, all over penis, scrotum, groins, and inside thighs, and was by its distension spreading mortification wherever it went. I made punctures everywhere in these parts, sent for Mr. Hunter, who opened the urethra beyond the stricture (as he believed), in doing which, a great quantity of foetid pus was discharged; the man by this time was become comatose and died next morning. A bristle bent upon itself shows the passage where the urine burst through ; the prostate gland was rather large and scirrhous ; bladder also much thickened." The word "suppression" is here used, as it appears to have been commonly used in the time of the Hunters, with the meaning of "retention." Compare under No. 41.48. 43.39. Stricture of the Urethra. False Passages and Abscesses in the Corpus Spongiosum. Perineal Fistula. Hunterian. BB. 58c. Bladder and penis, opened from the dorsum, showing the above.