HUNTSMAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 70S he will find to have an indistinct appearance, from their tender- ness and frequent anastomoses, so as to look a good deal like irregular interstitial void spaces (see Nos. 48.137-48.144); the arteries, which generally make a snake-like convolution or two on the surface of the placenta (see No. 48.153), and give off no anastomosing branches, are more distinct. The best time for seeing them is as soon as a placenta comes away in a common labour. Let its surface be instantly washed with clean water, that all the loose blood may be removed. This renders the ground (the decidua) lightly coloured, and for that reason makes the vessels, which will still contain some dark blood, more conspicuous. "If a blow-pipe be thrust into the substance of the placenta anywhere, the air which is blown into the cellular (blood-cells) part opens and rushes out readily by the open mouths both of the arteries and the veins. AVhile the placenta remains adhering to the uterus, any injection made by the uterine arteries fills not only these vessels but also the cellular part of the placenta ; and if we con- tinue the operation, the injection returns from these cells into the veins of the uterus and fills them likewise. The same thing happens, but in an inverted order, when we begin by injecting the veins of the uterus. Thence it is that in injecting the gravid uterus, if we fill one system of uterine vessels fully, we can hardly afterwards get the injection to run any length of way in the other system ; therefore, when we wish to have both systems pretty well injected, we must fill the first only moderately, and then the other. And when the arteries and veins of the uterus have been filled in this manner with wax of different colours, we observe, in examining the placenta, that the wax which was thrown into the first system (the arteries for example) is driven towards the inside of the placenta by the wax which was last thrown by the other system, and which for that reason lodges itself principally in those cells of the placenta which are next to its outer surface. (See No. 48.148.) While the placenta and membranes adhere to the uterus, make a slit into the coat of the navel-string, there introduce a blunt probe, and force it into the cells (blood-cells) of the adjacent part of the placenta; then withdrawing the probe, insinuate an injecting pipe, and tie it firmly with a broad thread round the navel-string. You will then find that you can, by that pipe, fill the whole placenta uniformly in its cellular part, and likewise all the venous system of the uterus and decidua as readily and fully as if you had fixed the