85G HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. left disappears. The right and left aiiriculo-ventricular orifices are quite separate, and communicate each with its corresponding ven- tricle only, the auriculo-ventricular septum on the top of the interventricular septum being complete. Tlie pulmonary veins are seen entering the auricle as in the mature foetus. Compare Nos. 10.31 ef mi, Foetal Hearts. 51.24. The Development of the External Genital Organs in Man. (After Ecker.) From Dr. Allen Thomson's Collection. Icones Physiologkae, Plate XXIX., figs. 8 to 18 (omitting 16). Nos. 1 to 4 show the state when the sex is not yet decided. Nos. 5, 7, 9 the decided female. Nos. 0, 8, 10 the decided male sexual type. Model 1. The lower part of the body of an embryo six lines in length. {Loc. cif., fig. 8.) In front of the projecting end of the vertebral column there is a little tubercle with an opening on the top of it, which is the common opening of the alimentary, urinary, and genital passages—the orifice of the cloaca. Model 2. The same parts from a slightly older embryo. (Loc. cit., fig. 9.) The orifice of the cloaca is longer. The tubercle in which it lies is much more prominent, and has, besides, a stronger projec- tion in front, which becomes penis or clitoris. Model 3. The same jjarts from a slightly older embryo 9-J- lines long, of about the eighth week of pregnancy (fig. 10). There is still only one orifice—the cloaca. In front of it the projection which becomes penis or clitoris has developed greatly, and from it run back •two distinct folds or lips, which become the labia minora. Round about these structures folds of skin have arisen, low before and behind, but forming a prominent lip on right and left, which become the two halves of the scrotum in the male, and the labia majora and mons veneris in the female. Model 4. The same parts from an embryo about 1 inch long. {Loc. cit., fig. 11.) The cloaca is now divided by a band of tissue (which in the male forms the portion of skin between the scrotum and anus, and in the female the j^erinaeum) into uro-genital sinus in front (ventrally) and anus behind (dorsally). The tubercle which forms the erectile organ resembles a clitoris. The sex is still not dis- tinguishable.