758 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. occupied the middle segment of the Fallopian tube, rather near the outer end, about 3 cm. of the inner part and only 1 cm. of the outer being unoccupied. It forms an oval dilatation, now hardly so large as is stated above. There is a large rent on the upper and anterior surfaces of the tube about the junction of the outer and middle thirds. The edges of the torn sac are very thin and transparent. The calibre of the tube either way is blocked by a, firm fleshy mass. Some villi of the chorion appear towards the distal end. As mentioned above, the cavity of the uterus is considerably enlarged, and the mucous membrane is hypertrophied, presenting the usual appearance of the decidua as it is seen in a miscarriage which has not been long retained. Bristles mark the orifices of the Fallopian tubes. Compare, under Develop- ment of the Decidua, No, 48.175 d mi-, and Abortions, Nos. 49.35 et seq. The foetus is perfectly formed, and apparently about ten weeks old. 49.3. Tubal Pregnancy. Formation of Decidua in Uterus. Hunterian. RR. 368. The other portion of the preceding. 49.4. Tubal Pregnancy. Removal by Operation after Rupture. Presented by Dr. J. K. Kelly, 1897. Ruptured Fallopian tube and ovum. The following history of the case is taken from the account of it published in the Glasgow Medical Journal, Vol. 38, new series, 1892, by Dr. J. K. Kelly. Patient was confined of her only child in 1882. Subsequently she suff'ered from dysmenorrhoea and leucorrhoea. In December, 1890, she was found to be suff'ering from severe endometritis, which probably accounted both for her suff'ering and for her sterility. After treatment by swabbing with carbolic acid had failed, the uterus was curetted in June, 1891. About the middle of April, 1892, after an interval of six weeks, menstrual discharge appeared in small quantity, and she felt rather ill. The bloody discharge continued more or less up to the first of May, when her medical attendant was called in. She then presented no definite symptoms of illness. Next day she was seized with vomiting and great abdominal pain, but there was nothing that suggested the idea of bleeding. The uterus was en- larged, and there was some swelling alongside it. Patient believed