COMPARATIVE ANATOMY OF THE PLACENTA. 751 48.257. Uterus of Carnivore showing Zonary Placenta- tion. Hunterian. BR. 328. "Two horns of a gravid uterus, where the cotyledons are at pretty regular distances from each other, and are oblong in their shape, forming belts on the inside, surrounding the cavities of the horns : probably from the bitch." 48.258. Puppy enclosed in Foetal Membranes, showing the Zonary Placenta. From Dr. Allen Thomson's Collection. The puppy is seen through the sac of transparent chorion and amnion, with its limbs folded, forming a long oval, round which, nearer the caudal end and at a level corresponding with the umbilicus, lies the placenta in the form of a complete ring, as was seen in the preceding. The placenta forms a comparatively narrow zone occupying only one-sixth of the length of the chorionic sac. The puppy is of considerable size, apparently near birth. 48.259. Zonary Deciduate Placenta and Allantois. Dog. Hunterian. BE. 332. "A puppy lying transversely, enclosed in amnion; between amnion and chorion may be observed a double conical membrane called allantois, losing itself at each extremity in chorion; there is also seen a portion of the placenta which is tuberculated on its surface and oblong in its shape ; the placenta is in some degree vascular from the uterus, and a membrane corresponding to decidua is partly detached, also vascular." The decidua is recognizable at the edges of the placenta; it is reflected to a very slight degree over the exterior of the chorion. With a lens can be seen the broken stems of numerous arteries ramifying a short distance on the surface of the placenta and then dipping into its substance. The placenta occupies about half of the chorion; contrast its size relatively to the foetus in this, which is from an early stage of gestation, with that in the preceding, which is from a late stage. 48.260. Zonary Deciduate Placenta and Allantois. Dog. Hunterian. BB. 333. " Ditto, foetus not enclosed in amnion; the allantois more