764 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. (h) Hydatidifovm Disease of the Chorion. 49.15. Hydatidiform Degeneration of the Chorion. (Hydatid Mole.) Hunterian. BR. 380. " A placenta converted into hydatids, of different sizes and of the shape of a Florence flask; they hang by small thi'eads of different lengths, some from the substance of the placenta, others from neighbouring hydatids." The mass is about as large as a full time j^lacenta. The cysts vary in size from some which are very minute to others which resemble an ordinary yellow grape. Amidst the vesicles there is a considerable mass of fleshy tissue, probably traces of a proper placenta formation, and some membrane resembling a normal chorionic sac; it is unopened. The manner of branching is similar to that seen in normal villi of the chorion. Compare Nos. 49.36 et seq. 49.16. Gravid Uterus "about the Sixth Month," with Foetus and Placenta, showing partial Hydatidi- form Degeneration of the Chorion. Hunterian. BR. 120. "An impregnated uterus, laid open, apparently near the sixth month : showing the placenta adhering, and going to be converted into hydatids; at the bottom of the bottle a foetus : on the other side of the uterus there remains a portion of the bladder, show- ing the opening of the ureters and the beginning of urethra." The foetus and umbilical cord appear perfectly well formed, and the amnion and membranous chorion line the non-placental parts of the interior of the uterus in the normal way. The placenta, however, is unusually large, and through the transparent chorion its mass can be seen to -be largely composed of clear vesicles of various sizes, similar to those composing the preceding specimen, 49.17. An Abortion in the Third Month. Hydatidiform Degeneration of the Chorion. Presented by Dr. Service of Dennistmn, 1897. The following history was given. " Patient had been separated' from her husband for five weeks. In the beginning of December they came together again. Yesterday, the ninth of February,