650 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. opaca, enclosing the area pellucida, across which the embryo appears as a white streak. With a lens, the head fold, the two medullary ridges with the medullary groove between them, the protovertebral segments, and, at the tail end between the diverging medullary folds, the primitive streak and fold, can be made out. The specimen is torn in one or two places. 46.4. The Blastoderm "at 48 .Hours." Hunterian. NN. 17. A similar preparation, said to be at 48 hours; seen from below. The area of the blastoderm is considerably larger. With the naked eye the head end can be recognized, raised from the plane of the blastoderm, mostly composed of the cerebral vesicle. The omphalo-mesaraic (omphalo-raesenteric) veins, protovertebrae, tail fold, and remains of the primitive streak can be seen with a weak magnifying glass. The heart lies just ahead of the omphalo-mesaraic veins, but is indistinct. A very slight trace of the amniotic fold can be seen at the sides of the head. Imperfect. 46.5. The Blastoderm at rather over 48 Hours. Hunterian. NN. 19. A similar specimen, described as " at 48 hours," but considerably larger and more advanced than the preceding. It is imperfect; the somato-pleuric and splanchno-pleuric folds being torn just below the head. It shows the omphalo-mesaraic circulation spreading out over the yolk, forming the area vasculosa, which is now fully 1 cm. broad. The trunks of the omphalo-mesaraic vessels, and their tree-like branchings, and the sinus terminalis in a circle around the edge of the vascular area are very distinct. Shows also the flexure of the head, and the formation of the tail fold. 46.6. The Blastoderm at 98 Hours. Hunterian. NN. 31. A similar preparation seen from above; the area vasculosa 3 cm. wide; the embryo completely folded off, and enclosed in the amnion, which fits closely around it. It is badly twisted—head turned to its right, tail to left. The head shows the strongly marked cranial flexure, which causes the mid-brain at this stage to form the foremost part of the embryo. Shows also the fore-brain,