927 CALCIUM OXALATE CALCULI. calcium oxalate calculus with a nucleus containing uric acid and urate of ammonium. The outer layer of this is loose and soft, and contains some phosphates; then follows a white layer about 1 mm. thick of soft mixed phosphates, then a greyish-white layer mixed with oxalate, and lastly an outer shell of pure hard dark brown calcium oxalate. {Hunterian Plate XVI., fig. 8.) 53.134. Calculus of Calcium Oxalate, Uric Acid, and Phosphates. Hunterian. Half of an oval calculus measuring 3"4 by 2-1 cm. The centre is a small oval calculus built up of dark brown and yellow laminae of calcium oxalate with a trace of uric acid. Then follows a very loose layer, thick at the ends, thin at the sides, of hard granules with softer brown material between, also calcium oxalate with a good deal of uric acid; and lastly, a shell about 3 mm. thick of moderately hard dense finely laminated pinkish-white matter, which appears to be mixed phosphates, principally calcium phos- phate and some calcium oxalate. Before the blowpipe it blackens, and fuses only under very strong heat. It is soluble in hydrochloric acid, and the solution, on neutralizing with ammonia, throws down an amorphous precipitate with a few triple phosphate (knife rest) crystals here and there. It is to some extent but not completely soluble in acetic acid. *53.135. Calculus of Calcium Oxalate and Phosphates. From Bladder of Hog. Hunterian. A note in William Hunter's handwriting says : "This stone was brought to me by a butcher, who found it in a hog's bladder. He observed that there was one stone within another, or something loose within, because when shaken there was a sensible rattling noise. Upon cutting it through I found the cavity contained several small stones and sawdust. I was at that instant called out in such a hurry that I had neither time to lock it up nor recollection to desire that nobody might disturb it, and when I came home I found that it had been taken up by some ignorant person, the small stones had tumbled out, and the room had been swept." The calculus is of perfectly spherical shape, 4 cm. in diameter. The cavity is large enough to contain a marble (2 cm.). It has a lining of dark rusty brown coloured calcium oxalate, which forms