468 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 36.10. Septum of the Intestine. Hunterian. P. 54. A portion of the intestine, inflated and dried, showing "valvula connivens making a circle, and thence occasioning stricture in a portion of jejunum." There is a constriction of the intestine,, beside which part of the wall of the tube has been cut out, to show that from the constriction there projects into the bowel, all round a septum like an enlarged valvula connivens : it measures 6 mm. in depth, and the passage through it is a round hole 1 cm. in diameter. The preparation is figured in Matthew Baillie's Engravings, Fasc. IV., PI. VI., fig. 3, where it is described as "a part of the jejunum, in the cavity of which a membraneous process had grown, from original malformation, resembling in its shape a ring or valve of the pylorus. It appears to have laid the founda- tion of no disease in the bowels." 36.11. Imperforate Anus ; opened by Operation. Hunterian. MM. 25. " A section through the pelvis of a female child; anus wa& wanting. Mr. Hewson and Mr. Bromfield did the operation here." There is a distinct dimple representing the anus; it was- separated from the rectum by a thin septum only. 36.12. Imperforate Anus; opened by Operation. Hunterian. R. 52. The rectum (with the bladder of a male child), " on which, as im- perforate, Mr. Bromfield and Mr. Hewson performed the operation for imperforate rectum." There is about 8 mm. of raw surface between the soft skin of the anal dimple and the mucous membrane of the rectum. (It is lying upside down.) 36.13. Imperforate Anus. Distension of the Rectum. Hunterian. MM. 25a. "The rectum and bladder of a child on which Dr. Hunter attempted the operation for the imperforated rectum." "Had the instrument gone on a little further, it would have succeeded." A narrow blind passage, corresponding to the anus, is marked by a bougie; it runs up to the blind end of the rectum, and is about 1 cm. long. The specimen does not show marks of any operation, but