TUMOURS OF THE PHARYNX. 423. Notes, J.H.T., p. 14.) It is figured in Matthew Baillie's Engrav- ings, Fasc. III., PI. Ill, fig. 1. 32.11. Epithelioma of the Pharynx. Hunterian. 0. 46. The larynx, pharynx, and part of the oesophagus slit open behind, showing the above. The growth has extended right round the tube for about 6 cm. of the lower region of the pharynx; the wall is greatly thickened, and internally it is ulcerated. The edges of the ulcer are hard and raised. Micro- scopic examination shows it to be an epithelioma. (MS. Notes,. J.H.T., p. 13.) 32.12. Epithelioma of the Pharynx. Hunterian. 0. 47. The pharynx, larynx, trachea and thyroid gland, the larynx split and the pharynx opened from before showing a large ulcer with raised ulcerated floor. It forms a mass of considerable thickness; it is situated chiefly on the postei'ior wall of the pharynx, but also extends right round the passage. It is very hard, and must have formed a very tight stricture. The walls of the larynx are infiltrated, but there is no appearance of the tumour within its cavity. The ulcer extends from the level of the top of the epiglottis about 6 cm. down the pharynx. Microscopic struc- ture ; epithelioma. The thyroid is enlarged; simple hypertrophy. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 18.) 32.13. Congenital Cystic Tumour of the Neck. Presented by Dr. T. K. Dalziel, 1898. One half of a tumour, of slightly irregular oval shape, measuring 9"5 cm. by about 7 cm., which "was removed from an infant aged three weeks," by Dr. Dalziel. " The tumour was present from birth, and interfered with respiration and deglutition. It extended from the mastoid process to the clavicle, and from behind the sternomastoid to across the middle line in front. The tumour was said to have increased rapidly since birth. The infant made a good recovery, and suffered very little from shock of the operation, which lasted twelve minutes." The specimen is enclosed in a distinct fibrous capsule. It is slightly lobulated externally. In section it is seen to consist of thin-walled