ABORTIONS. Ill 49.49. An Abortion. Recent Haemorrhage between the Chorion and the Decidua Reflexa. Hunterian. EE. 247. An abortion, consisting of the sac of the decidua reflexa and its contents, has been divided longitudinally, and the half including the embryo and placenta forms the specimen. The embryo appears to be of somewhere between six and eight weeks' growth, and is not deformed. The amnion, which is very large in proportion to the embryo, is attached to the chorion by a distinct stratum of fibrous tissue. The chorion, a slightly thicker white membrane, is covered in its upper part with villi going to the formation of the placenta, its lower part is smooth. The outer surface of the abortion resembles blood clot in some parts, in others it has the characteristic appearance of decidua. The lower (non-placental) part of the space between the chorion and the decidua reflexa is occupied by comparatively recent looking (now dark brown) blood clot, showing at the edges a very slight trace of lamination. It is fully 1 '5 cm. thick opposite the os uteri; at this point the blood clot is homogeneous and like recently formed clot. Above this mass of blood clot the amnion and chorion are seen to be separated, and in the space between them there are traces of blood. To judge by the condition of the clot, the abortion was not shed upon the occurrence of the first haemorrhage, yet it was not long retained in utero. 49.50. Very Young Abortive Ovum retained some time in the Uterus before Expulsion. Hunterian. EE. 227. "A miscarriage, very young, that had remained some time in the cavity of the uterus before expulsion." A globular mass, part membranous and covered with the characteristic chorionic villi, part solid tissue resembling old thrombus. It is laid open showing the smooth amnion lining the interior. No trace of foetus. 49.51. Very Early Abortion. Hunterian. EE. 229. A very young abortive ovum with portions of decidua adhering, mounted on blue paper. Similar to the preceding. Another piece of decidua mounted below.