772 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 49.52. An Abortion. Embryo of about Six Weeks. Retained some time in the Uterus. Hunterian. BR. 426. (Not described.) It consists of a thick fleshy mass of fibrinous- looking material, part of the chorion covered with villi, some embedded in it, some hanging loose, and the smooth clear amnionic sac with an embryo about 1 cm. long inside it. The embryo appears well formed. From the thickness and density of the solid mass of blood clot the ovum must have lain for some little time in the uterine cavity between the commencement of the haemorrhage and its expulsion as an abortion. 49.53. An Abortion containing a Minute Ovum. Hunterian. BR. 271. A fleshy fibrinous oval mass, laid open, showing chorionic villi in the wall, and a considerable cavity lined with smooth chorion. Towards the lower part of this is the amnion, about the size of a 'small pea, in which are distinctly seen the rudiments of the embryo. 49.54. An Abortion in the Third Month retained in Utero Two and a half Months. Presented hij Dr. Service of Dcnnistoun. A small oval flattened abortion, measuring about 5 by 3 by 1 cm. The following is the history of the case : " Patient altered 4th April, 1897. Discharge appeared again on 26th June, for a week profusely, and then stopped. Then nothing from beginning of July until now, 17th Sept., 1897. There has been either a mis- carriage at the end of June and another now, or this foetus has been dead for the past two months. The woman imagined she was five months pregnant, and said she felt life. R. W. Service." The abortion is certainly not larger than it would be in the third month. It is very firm and nodulated as if old. On section, there is seen to be an abnormally large amount of blood mixed with the tissues of the placenta. The cavity was collapsed, and contained no trace of an embryo. On microscopic examination nearly all the tissues of the membranes and placenta were found to be in a necrosed condition; the intervillous spaces were filled with old dense clot. Clearly the correct interpretation of the history