HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 664 edge of the womb, that they might be more apparent. The head of the child is lodged in the lower part of the womb or in the cavity of the pelvis; and its body lies principally in the right side. Its position is diagonal or oblique : so that its posterior parts are turned forwards and to the right side of the mother, and its foreparts are ■directed backwards and to the left side. Its right foot appears between its left thigh and leg. Its body was covered with a white greasy mucus which is commonly seen on children at their birth. This is represented at the upper part of its back, where it was intersected with lines from the wrinkles and motion of the child's body. Every part is represented just as it was found, not so much as one joint of a finger having been moved to show any part more •distinctly or to give a more picturesque effect." (Desc. of PI. VI.) The long axis of the head is in the left oblique diameter of the pelvis, the occiput pointing to the right foramen ovale, " the left ear forwards and an inch or two to the left of the symphysis pubis"— the second cranial position. 48.6. "The Child in the Womb in its Natural Situation." Hunterian Cast. A replica of the preceding, not mentioned in the catalogue. 48.7. The Attitude of the Child in the Womb. Hunterian Cast No. 8. A cast of the trunk and upper parts of the thighs of a woman about the end of pregnancy, the abdomen opened by a crucial incision, the flaps turned aside, and the anterior parietes of the uterus removed as in the preceding, to show the foetus in its natural position. In this case the foetus lies with its head well down in the pelvis, in the right oblique diameter—occipito-posterior—the forehead pointing to the left foramen ovale, " the left ear to the right of the symphysis pubis."—third cranial position. The posterior parts of the child are turned backwards, its body occupying the right side of the womb, and the limbs towards the left. The placenta had been removed along with the parietes. The transverse colon passes over the top of the fundus uteri. The vulva has been oedematous. There is no history of the case from which the specimen was -obtained.