HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 688 (a) the placenta and decidua in general. 48.83. The Placenta at Full Time; the Decidua covering- its Outer Surface. Hunkrian. RK. 84. "A very large placenta, injected red; showing its size, and on the under side its lohulated appearance. Injected by the umbilical arteries." The decidua covering its outer surface remains unin- jected; compare No. 48.123. "The human placenta, as well as that of quadrupeds, is a composition of two parts intimately blended—an umbilical or infantile and an uterine portion. One is a continuation of the umbilical vessels of the foetus, the other is an efflorescence of the internal part of the uterus." {Description of the Gravid Uterus, p. 33.) " The placenta and membranes together make one complete unimperforated bag, which lines the uterus and contains the child. (Compare specimens Nos. 48.73 and 48.74.) The placenta is thick, fleshy, and exceedingly vascular; the membranes are thin, pellucid, and, for the most part, have scarcely any apparent red blood-vessels. "The figure of the placenta is commonly round and flat, about an inch in thickness, and about a span in breadth. It becomes gradually thinner all round its edge, so as to render the change from the placenta to the membranes more imperceptible. The above-men- tioned thickness of the placenta is meant of the common flaccid state in which we usually see it; but when its cellular part is well filled with wax, or any fluid, the placenta is at least two inches thick. Though its figure is generally round, it is often oblong or triangular, or of an irregular shape, and sometimes it has a small lobe or two separated and entirely distinct from the rest. I have seen it oblong and narrow in the middle, like the cipher, or like the common placenta of twins united by an isthmus. When the placenta is very long and narrow, and the navel string is inserted near one end, it is apt to remain in the uterus a considerable time after the birth of the child, and to occasion flooding and faintness before it comes away. " The outer surface which adheres to the womb, and is therefore naturally convex, is rough, tender in its substance, commonly covered with blood, lightly subdivided into smaller constituent lobes, and to a common observer seems to have no apparent blood- vessels or at least none of any considerable size. "Its internal surface, naturally more or less concave, is glossy,