668 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. some days after delivery, when it had contracted to a fifth of its former size; the sides are now about two inches thick, and the cavity about an inch broad, and seven-eighths from before to behind; this section was a little above the cervix." When measured out of the jar (which magnifies considerably), the walls are found to be \\ inches thick (3 cm.) and the cavity measures one inch (2-5 cm.) by three-eighths of an inch (almost 1 cm.). The wall is seen to be composed of interlacing bundles of muscle with a fair number of blood-vessels. On one side of the cavity the muscle bundles are covered with a distinct layer of decidua. Compare the thickness here with that of the uncontracted uteri in the casts and some of the wet specimens, e.g. Nos. 48.32, 48.156, and 48.158. "Those who say that the uterus grows thicker in the same proportion that its bulk is increased have probably been deceived by examining the uterus of a woman who died some hours after delivery. In that contracted state the uterus is often found even two inches thick; but in all those which I have examined in the natural distended state, though there was some difference, the thickness of the uterus was but a little more considerable than before impregnation. When not injected, its common thickness is from one to two-thirds of an inch; when its vessels, and particularly its veins, are pretty well filled with wax, its thickness is thereby considerably increased, more especially where the placenta is fixed, on account of the number and size of the vessels at that part. For this reason only, perhaps, the uterus is thickest at that part, and for this reason, too, it is commonly thicker towards the fundus than near the cervix. In respect of thickness I have observed a good deal of variety, and such inequalities in the same uterus, that even where the placenta did not adhere, the uterus has been almost twice as thick at one part as at another. I have always observed, on opening the uterus, that its thickness is more considerable than one could have imagined it to be by feeling it externally, where there is a fluctuation of the water. Its substance is so soft that the fluctuation then felt is like that of water in a thin bag." {Description of the Gravid Uterus, p. 13.) 48.16. The Wall of the Gravid Uterus after Delivery. Hunterian. RR. 6 (?). (Numbered RR. 6 on jar, but does not correspond.) It appears