442 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 34. 20. Stricture of the Lower End of the Oesophagus. Hunterimi. 0. 44. " A portion of the oesophagus from a Mr. Knight; the part close to the stomach was of a hard gristly substance, so contracted at one part as just to admit a small quill, and forming a stricture of the oesophagus." Probably an epithelioma. Its nature could not be made out without destroying the specimen. Carcinoma of the Stomach. 34.21. Carcinoma at the Cardiac Orifice of the Stomach. Hunterian. 0. 60. (Not described.) A portion of the stomach, hanging by the oesophagus, slit open, and laid out flat, showing a tumour involving the cardiac orifice. There is considerable thickening apparently in the wall of the oesophagus, and infiltration of the diaphragm, a small portion of which is preserved. There is also ulceration of the oesophagus internally, and the mucous membrane of the stomach is puckered up below the edge. There was probably a considerable degree of stricture. IMicroscopic examination shows that the tumour is a carcinoma of gastric origin ; the internal edge of the section shows gastric glands, and the outer parts consist of muscle and fibrous tissue infiltrated here and there with areas of tumour which is composed of masses of cells, mostly so much altered that only the nuclei are visible, in a characteristic and fairlj' well developed fibrous stroma. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 31.) 34.22. Carcinoma of the Stomach, involving almost the Whole Organ; Stricture of the Oesophagus; In- volvement of the Diaphragm. Hunterian. 0. 57. This specimen and the succeeding are the two portions of a stomach and lower end of oesophagus, which were the seat of a carcinoma. The oesophagus has been divided longitudinally, and the section carried along near the lesser curvature, and through the pylorus. This specimen consists of part of the oesophagus, by which it hangs, and the lower portion (fundus and great curvature) of the stomach. These are contorted and drawn together by the new growth, which has involved the whole mucous membrane with the exception of a small area of the lower part of the pyloric region.