THE ATTITUDE OF THE FOETUS. 665 48.8. The Attitude of the Foetus. Breech Presentation. First Position. Cord round Neck. Hunterian Cast No. 9. RR. 73. " A cast in Paris plaster, nearly the whole trunk of the body and upper part of the thighs included, from a woman at the ninth month ; uterus opened, shows the child presenting by the breech; the child does not lie oblicpe, but almost perpendicular, and parallel to the sides of the body; one turn of the navel-string round its neck." The position is the first breech, the long axis of the head of the child corresponding with the right oblique diameter of the pelvis; the breech with the left oblique. The back of the child is anterior and towards the left side of the mother. 48.9. The Shape, Size, and Position of the Uterus with the Foetus presenting by the Breech. Second Position. Hunterian Cast No. 12. A cast in plaster of Paris, coloured, of the whole trunk of a woman at full time, the abdomen opened by a crucial incision and the flaps turned aside; the uterus intact. It is moulded to the foetus in such a way that the position can easily be made out. The head is right at the fundus. Immediately below, and separated from it by only a slight depression, is the prominence of the right shoulder. From this the broad expanse of the back runs awaj' towards the right side of the mother and downwards, and the ridge of the upper arm runs to the left, and, where the elbow meets the right knee, a second prominence (due to the knee) is felt. The thigh, arm, and body enclose a well-marked depression just to the left of the middle line, below which the back makes a smooth surface down to the brim of the pelvis. Projecting between the left side of the uterus and the abdominal wall are several loops of intestine; none of the other viscera are visible. (There is no description in the old catalogue.) 48.10. Breech Presentation. Second Position. Insertion of the Placenta over the Lower Segment of the Uterus. Hunterian Cast No. 10. The same as the preceding, but with the uterus opened by a crucial incision and the muscular flaps turned aside. The foetus is enclosed in the amnion. At the lower part the edge of the placenta is seen opposite the lower part of the back and breech. It is attached to the uterus very low down—a decidedly perilous position.