PAPILLOMA OF THE OVARY. 641 45.100a. Ruptured Papilloma of the Ovary. Presented by Dr. T. K. Dalziel, 1898. The specimen consists of one half of a tumour rather larger than the foetal head at term. "It was removed by Dr. Dalziel from a patient, aet. 54, in February, 1898. Seven years before a similar tumour of the other ovary was excised. On both occasions general peritoneal infection had occurred, associated with extreme ascites. After the operation complete recovery took place ; evidentlj' the secondary growths disappeared." The tumour was of blunt oval shape flattened from side to side in one direction. In the middle of one of the flattened sides there is a concavity— a sort of hilum, in which lies the ovary. The lower (as it hangs) third of the specimen, below the hilum, is a cauliflower-like mass of papillomata. The upper two thirds are enclosed in a thin tough membranous capsule, which is ruptured here and there allowing smaller cauliflower-like masses to protrude. In the section the ovary is recognized, consisting of a mass of small Graafian follicles and a simple cyst rather larger than the ordinary follicle, project- ing into the hilum between the upper unruptured part of the cyst and the cauliflower-like mass below. The broad base of the ovary on the tumour is a mass of dense fibrous tissue and blood- vessels, apparently a hypertrophy of the proper hilum of the ovary. From this vascular fibrous mass as centre and from the interior of the capsule all round there rise stems of fibrous tissue on which grow the papillomata. These growths are packed tightly together in the cyst, embedded in a little mucus. Where the cyst wall is wanting they grow more luxuriantly on longer stems and less tightly packed. 45.101. Dermoid Cyst of the Ovary. Hunterian. CC. 5.3a. " Posterior half of the uterus with the right ovarium enlarged to the size of a child's head at birth, internally full of suet and hair." There is present only one half of the tumour, which has been divided to show its contents. The main mass of the tumour is a large thin walled cyst full of fat and hair. At the base of this is seen the rest of the ovary converted into small cysts with similar contents. From the wall of the large cyst is seen growing a tuft of reddish hairs.