THE GRAVID UTERUS AT TERM. 66S distinguishable by its notch. A large space between these and the uterus is occupied by the greater part of the intestines. A broad mass of omentum lies between them and the transversalis muscle. As in the preceding, the appendages are seen pressed close to the side of the uterus. The round ligament is longer than on the other side, from the obliquity of the uterus towards the right 48.4. The Uterus at the End of the Ninth Month of Pregnancy. From before. The Anterior Wall of the Pelvis removed. Hunterkm Cast No. 4. Plaster of Paris cast, coloured, corresponding to PI. IV. of Hunter's Gravid Uterus. The pubic bones have been removed along with the soft parts over them and the anterior parts of the labia majora and minora and the point of the clitoris. The cut ends of the rami of the pubes and ischia have been slightly drawn apart to give a clearer view of the contents of the pelvis. In front of the lower parts of the womb are seen the cut edge of peritoneum, which ascends from the bladder to line the anterior parietes of the abdomen ; also the bladder, which was compressed between the child's head and the symphysis pubis. Below this, in the centre, is the cut end of the clitoris, with its crura and erectores clitoridis stretching out to the descending ramus of the pubis on either side, and elongated and rendered more horizontal by the separation of the bones. Below this is the oval orifice of the vagina, with its anterior wall, where it is attached to the neck of the bladder and urethra, pressed down by the viscera that lie over it. At the upper point of this oval orifice "the tuberous extremity of the urethra is seen with the orifice of the meatus urinarius." (Desc. of PI. lY.) 48.5. " The Child in the Womb in its Natural Situation." Himterian Cast No. 6. BR. 70. Cast in plaster of Paris, coloured, corresponding to PI. VI. of Hunter's G-ravid Uterus. From the same subject as the preceding, but "all the upper part of the bladder is cut away in order to show the situation of the child's head in the lower part of the womb. All the forepart, both of the womb and of the secundines (which included the placenta), is removed. The navel-string is cut, tied, and turned to the left side over the edge of the womb. At the fundus the investing membranes are likewise turned over the