805 DOUBLE MONSTERS. formed breast surfaces to right and left of the vertebral columns, each belonging by half to both animals, right ribs of one united with left ribs of the other. The two sterna are separated at their upper ends by a considerable space (1'5 cm.). The two breast surfaces were divided by longitudinal incisions extending down into the abdomen nearly to the common umbilicus, for examination of the viscera, and then sewn \\\) again. The side of the animal which has been placed in front for exhibition is, it appears from the dissection, to be regarded as the front of the animal, and is so referred to in the description. The two animals are right and left with reference to this surface. There is a mem- branous area of abdominal wall round the umbilicus, which extends rather less to the front than to the back. On dividing the anterior breast surface, the heart, which is single, was found in the centre with its apex directed to the left and also forwards {i.e., towards the right side of the right animal and left side of the left animal). The diaphragm is well formed. The heart presents the appearance characteristic of a fairly advanced stage of intrauterine life, when the lungs and their vessels are very small. There are two ventricles, perfectly formed, but com- municating by a small orifice in the upper part of the septum— the undefended area, which, even in the adult, is membranous and occasionally imperfect. They are clearly right and left ventricles, the right in front. Between the auricular appendages rises the conus arteriosus, grooved on both sides and containing the aorta and pulmonary artery, not yet distinct externally. The pulmonary artery communicates directly with the right ventricle alone. Above, it joins the aorta in the usual way by the ductus arteriosus. The branches of the pulmonary artery being very small, no attempt was made to follow out their distribution to the four lungs. The aorta rises from the left ventricle more directly, but a probe easily passes into it from the right ventricle by the gap in the septum. The arrangement of the ventricles and roots of the great arteries is strictly that of a fairly young foetal heart. The aorta passes into the right animal, and, on reaching its vertebral column, divides and sends one branch down it as the aorta of the right animal, and another along the first rib, across the manubrium of the posterior sternum, to the other vertebral column, which it crosses partly and then runs down as the aorta of the left animal. It required to be severed in opening the thorax; its ends are marked with glass rods. From