729 THE DEC ID UA IN THE EARLY MONTHS. The placenta, with tlie umbilical cord rising from the centre of it, is seen on the back layer of the decidua. Microscopically it appeared well developed and perfectly healthy. The decidua reflexa, chorion, and amnion are separated from one another at the upper right hand corner of the ovum. The bristles are left in situ, showing that the cavity of the decidua is the cavity of the uterus and that the os uteri and the Fallopian tubes are freely patent during the early months of utero-gestation. The outside of the decidua shows numerous cup-like cavities of dilated uterine glands, and the cut edges show the same in section passing from the deep layers towards the surface, giving to the membrane the " lace-like" porous characters so often already quoted. Compare No. 48.113a. The other side of the specimen shows the placental site, and the rent leading into the cavity of the decidua reflexa. As far as can be judged in the torn condition of the embryo, the age of the abortion is between 8 and 10 weeks. 48.178. Decidua and Ovum. Hunterian. BR. 215. A similar specimen, but rather larger and more opened; "showing more distinctly the angle of reflexion between the decidua vera and the decidua reflexa." The decidua is very thin and porous; the placenta well formed and large. The embryo is absent. 48.179. Decidua, Foetal Membranes, and Embryo. Hunterian. BR. 21.7. A decidua and ovum opened in front, and the embryo hanging- out of the cavity. " Showing the navel-string about an inch long, not twisted, the vessels small in proportion to the investing mem- branes without the interposition of jelly, and the smallest part of the cord where it joins the placenta." 48.180. Decidua and Ovum. Hunterian. RB. 218. "An ovum, like man}' formerly described, and showing particu- larly the amnion, chorion, and decidua separated from each other." Also the cavity of the decidua, and the projection at the lower end corresponding to the os uteri. The embryo appears about the same age as that in No. 48.167—about six weeks.