693 THE PLACENTA. so extended as to make a complete bag, which encloses that mem- brane and all its contents, and is everywhere connected with that immediate involucrum of the child and water by the gelatinous medium above described " (Wharton's jelly ; embryonic connective tissue), " except upon the navel string; there the amnion and chorion are intimately and inseparably connected as one membrane, of which the inner lamella is a production of the chorion." " Where it is expanded over the concave surface of the placenta it acquires considerable thickness and strength, and is so intimately connected with the superficial branches of the umbilical vessels that it seems to give them a coat, or they seem to run in a duplicature of its substance till they emerge in smaller branches to disperse themselves through the different lobes of the placenta. "At the membranous portion of the secundines the chorion adheres so firmly to the more external membrane or decidua, that it is often difficult to separate them in recent secundines. Gentle putrefaction makes them part readily; and in separating these two membranes especially near the edge of the jilacenta, we may always observe a number of white slender threads, which emerge from the substance of the chorion and ramify into smaller filaments upon the interior lamella of the decidua which was originally the decidua reflexa. These are the remains of those shaggy vessels " (chorionic villi) " which shoot out from the chorion in a young conception, and give the appearance of the ovum being altogether surrounded by the placenta at that time." {Description of the Gravid Uterus, p. 45.) Compare Nos. 48.159 et seq., Development of the Ovum. 48.94. The Vascularity of the Placenta. Foetal Vessels, Hunterian. liR. 97a. Another portion from the same placenta as the preceding. 48.95. The Vascularity of the Placenta. Foetal Vessels. Hunterian. liR. 98. Another portion of the same. 48.96. The Vascularity of the Placenta. Foetal Vessels. Hunterian. BE. 168. A similar specimen, dried and mounted in turpentine.