FOREIGN BODIES IN THE STOMACH. 435 days in consequence of accidentally swallowing a half-crown piece; it stuck just behind the left auricle of the heart; a bleeding from the stomach destroyed him. The half-crown is seen sticking in the oesophagus, and now black from a kind of rust (Dr. Orme)." There is no ulceration of the oesophagus visible exter- nally. Figured in Matthew Baillie's Engravings, Fasc. III., PI. I., fig. 1. 34.2. Half-Orown which was swallowed, and passed in safety through the Intestine. Hunterian. The specimen lies (where it was) in the calculi case. With it is a note in William Hunter's handwriting as follows : " A half- crown of King Wm., swallowed by my footman, which he passed without any trouble within 30 hours." 34.3. Localized Dilatation of the Stomach by Foreign Bodies. Hunterian. 0. 50. "A portion of the stomach from a subject in the dissecting room, in which is seen a pouch formed by five halfj^ence sticking together; black, and seeming on their under surfaces to have been rubbed bright by the action of the stomach : their effect on the patient not known." The specimen is a square of stomach wall about 8 cm. on the side. The upper part of this, as it hangs, is thin and soft, but appears to be whole stomach wall— perhaps softened by post-mortem digestion; the lower two-thirds is thick and firm. The middle of the square is occupied by the pouch. It is very well defined on the sides and below; above it is not so well defined. Its greatest depth is 1"5 cm. Its breadth at the top is 3-7 cm. Its edges slope down to the bottom, which is fairly flat. The sloping part of the wall of the pouch seems to consist of the whole of the stomach wall more or less stretched. At the bottom it changes its character abruptly, becoming a thin translucent membrane. The area of thin membrane is a sharply-defined circle 2'3 cm. in diameter; it is white and transparent, with the exception of a few strands of yellow tissue which look like the remains of blood-vessels. It is not at all like a pouch pushed out between the muscle fibres of the stomach. The edges of the thin area are so well defined from the part which is simply stretched, it is so cleanly