EMBRYOLOGY. DEVELOPMENT OF THE EYE. 853 which alone forms the retina. Compare next model. The lens and cornea are coloured blue; the vitreous and j^arts connected with the iris and the edges of the choroid pink. MOBEL 8. Vertical section of an eye very much further ad- vanced in its development, coloured like the preceding. The primary optic vesicle is quite collapsed; the outer layer reduced to a thin membrane (the pigmented hexagonal celled layer of the retina); the inner thickened and forming the whole of the rest of the retina. The general relations of the lens, vitreous, cornea, etc., indicated as in the preceding, further advanced towards the mature condition. Model 9. Vertical section of an eye practically fully developed. The cavity of the jDrimary optic vesicle quite obliterated, and the two layers in close apposition with one another. The central artery of the retina is seen passing in along the groove of the optic nerve, which corresponds to the fold of the primitive optic vesicle (choroidal cleft), and running through the vitreous (in this model represented by a cavity) to the back of the lens, in the capsule of which it is distributed. The sclerotic and cornea are shown in a layer of white wax; the latter has acquired its adult shape, and projects as the segment of a smaller circle from the front of the large circle of the eyeball. The choroid and the anterior chamber between the cornea and the lens and iris are shown by a layer of the same pink wax as represents the capsules of the lens and vitreous. 51.23. The Development of the Heart. (After Bischoff and Ecker.) From Dr. Allen Thomson^s Collection. Ten Wax Models illustrating the above. Nos. 1-3 the hearts of embryos of mammalia magnified 70 dia- meters, after Bischoff's Fn.twickelung des Hundes und Kanincliens (Development of the Dog and Rabbit) ; Nos. 4-10 repre- sent hearts of embryos of man up to the third month of pregnancy, corresponding with the Ecker's Series, Icones Ph/jdo- logicae, Plate XXX. No. 4 is magnified 40 diameters. Nos. 5 and 9 „ 20 „ 6 and 7 „ 30 No. 10 „ 8 „ ■