STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. 589 The penile part of the urethra has been more or less strictured in the greater part of its length. The abscesses are alongside and in free communication with the urethra. They have ulcerated between the corpus spongiosum and corpora cavernosa, and slightly into the last two. 43.40. Stricture of the Urethra. Perineal Fistulae. Hy- pertrophy of the Bladder. Hunterian. BB. 62. Bladder, scrotum, and part of penis, opened from above. " There are two fistulous orifices in the membranous part of the urethra, and the stricture is at the beginning of the bulb. The bladder is much thickened; some vessels are injected with mercury from the lacunae near caput gallinaginis : they look like absorbents, and run up the ureters, but they may be traced to the veins." 43.41. Stricture of the Urethra; Fistula in the Perinaeum. Hnnterian. BB. 63. The same parts as in the preceding, showing a urethra generally constricted, with a urinary fistula from its membranous portion. The tissues of the perinaeum are thickened; the external orifice of the fistula is indicated by a pouting mass of granulations just behind the scrotum. 43.42. Atresia of the Vasa Deferentia. Hunterian. Y. 65. "Two testicles from the same subject- the epididymis in both, instead of leading on to vas deferens, terminates abruptly in a blind point, in the one about half-way, and in the other just where it should join vas deferens." This specimen is found to correspond to that figured and described as follows by John Hunter, in connection with his paper " On the Glands called Vesiculae Seminales" (Palmer's edition. Vol. IV., p. 23, line 32, and PI. XXVII.): "In dissecting a male subject, in the year 1755, for a side view of the contents of the pelvis, I found a bag on the left side, lying contiguous to the peritoneum, just on the side of the pelvis where the internal iliac vessels divide above the angle of reflection of the peritoneum at the union of the bladder and rectum. The left vas deferens was seen passing on to this bag; and what is very singular, that of the right, or opposite side, crossed the bladder, near its union with the rectum,