BLOOD CAST OF TEE INTESTINE. 471 this part grew sore, the right side became oedematous, and a quantity of fluid matter could plainly be felt under the intercostal muscles. "A month before the patient's decease, the seat of the pain changed, it went in a direct line from the right to the left side, its motion was regular and slow, so that she did from time to time point out its progress; it was four days in passing over, afterwards fixed in the stomach, and was never more felt in the side, where the soreness of the teguments likewise soon abated. " The stomach had hitherto received, retained, and digested the food tolerably well, but was now affected with an incessant heaving and nausea, unless now and then relieved by strong opiates or large draughts of spirituous liquors ; there was likewise the same sensation of tickling and quirling in it that had been before per- ceived in the side. She had a slight cough from the beginning of the illness; but after the pain came into the stomach, this cough was violent, and she expectorated large quantities of a viscid frothy phlegm. These symptoms all vanished suddenly, and, in twenty-four hours after, she voided by siool the fore-part of an annular worm 9 inches long and an inch in diameter; and in six hours more the tail and other parts of the body, amounting in the whole to 20 inches in length. It was of a red colour, and filled with blood in the manner of a leech. After the worm left the stomach, Mrs. Holt complained that the stomach was fallen down, and seemed very empty, and she entirely lost the power of deglutition, so that she did not survive above 48 hours. Whilst the pain continued in the side she had a considerable degree of flesh and strength remaining, but languished fast after it came into the stomach. "This unhappy gentlewoman was, for many months before her death, so fully convinced of there being something extraordinary in her case, that she insisted on having her body opened, and the nature of her disease carefully inquired into ; which was accordingly done by Doctors Kearsely, senior, Shippen, Phineas Bond, and myself, in the presence of many of her friends. We found the liver enlarged and forced over to the left side, the substance of it harder than common, and in some parts actually scirrhous; the gall-bladder distended with thick black bile to the size of a goose egg, the stomach and intestines in a natural state, the liver adhering to the peritonaeum. In the external part of the liver under the distortion of the ribs was a large cavity containing near