579 RUPTURE OF THE BLADDER. boy, and it appears he had been cut for the stone from the large external cicatrix; there is also a fistulous orifice between bladder and rectum." The cicatrix is that of a lateral perinaeal incision. Internally the urethra is seen healed towards the outside, but, as mentioned above, communicating by a fistulous orifice with the rectum. 43.11. Rupture of the Bladder from Overdistension. Hunterian. A A. 49. The bladder of a woman, hardened in a position of moderate distension and the base cut away, showing on the apex a slit- like rent about 1 cm. in length. The peritoneum around it is covered with a tliin coat of fibrinous exudation. The specimen was described in the old catalogue as "ruptured bladder (from a patient of Mr. Hey, of Leeds)," and it appears to correspond to a case described in the fourth volume of Med. Oh^. ami Inq., p. 58, under the title, "An Account of a Rupture of the Bladder from a Suppression of Urine in a Pregnant Woman, by Mr. Hey, Surgeon at Leeds, communicated by W. Hunter, M.D., F.R.S.," of which the following is a resume : The patient was a primipara, aged 38. Dr. Hey was called to see her, first, on the third day from the commencement of the labour. The presentation was cranial occipito-anterior, and the head low down in the pelvis. A dead child was born on the following day by natural means. Five days later he was again called in con- sultation, when he found her presenting the signs and symptoms of peritonitis. She died four days later, and on sectio the ruptured bladder was discovered. After this, inquiries were made of the mid- wife, and it was found that the patient when first seen had passed no urine for two days, and she was noticed to be undul}' swelled about the abdomen. The midwife " assured me, that although she had discharged no urine with a stream during the time mentioned, yet that it was continually flowing from her upon the clothes; and that she did not complain of any motion to make water "—a typical history of the condition of distension with overflow. The dribbling had continued after delivery, and, three days after it, while raising herself, patient had felt something "crack (as she expressed it) at her navel, and the pain immediately became severe about that part." She then ceased to pass any urine. Catheter passed thirty Ihours later brought away six ounces of bloody urine. No more