850 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. fold due to the bending of the vesicle, which becomes the Sylvian fissure. Model 2. Left half of the same, showing the median surface. {Ibid., fig. 3.) The corpus callosum is hardly fully formed. None of the permanent fissures are visible. Model 3. The brain of a foetus at the fourth month (sixteenth week). {Etid., Plate I., figs. 6 and 7.) The fissure of Sylvius has become deeper. No trace of any of the other fissures. Model 4. Left half of the same, showing the median surface. {Ibid., fig. 8.) The cut edges of the corpus callosum and fornix are quite recognizable, with the septum lucidum between. In the posterior part of the brain are recognizable the folds which become the parieto-occipital and calcarine fissures. Model 5. A brain of a foetus at the fifth month (19 weeks). {Loc. cit., Plate L, figs. 10, 11, 12.) The Sylvian fissure now shows both its limbs, but the anterior is very short. The fissure of Rolando is well marked, running from near the vertex, outwards, forwards, and downwards, to a point between the limbs of the Sylvian fissure. Posteriorly, the end of the parieto-occipital fissure notches the median edge of the upper surface of the hemisphere. Model 6. Left half of the same, showing the median surface. (Ibid., fig. 13.) Shows the parieto-occipital and calcarine fissures more developed and the rudiments of the calloso-marginal fissure above the corpus callosum. Model 7. A brain of a foetus at the sixth month (23 weeks). (Plate II., figs. 1, 2, 3.) The convolution of the cortex has advanced greatly. In addition to the three main fissures—S}dvian, Rolandic, and parieto-occipital—there are now visible secondary sulci in the middle of the frontal lobe (praeceutral), in the parietal (intraparietal), in the occipital (sulcus occipitalis transversus), and in the temporo- sphenoidal (first temporo-sphenoidal sulcus) lobes. Model 8. Left half of the same, showing the median surface. (Ibid., fig. 4.) Shows the parieto-occipital, calcarine, and calloso- marginal fissures, and, near the anterior end of the last, one of the minor sulci of the frontal lobe ; also on the lower surface of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe the collateral fissure. Model 9. The brain of a foetus at the seventh month (28 weeks) {Loc. cit., Plate II., figs. 6 and 7), showing the same fissures and sulci as the preceding, but considerably extended; the intraparietal