THE ATTITUDE OF THE FOETUS. 667 gastric and umbilical regions. The intestines project all round the sides and apex of the uterus, and the bladder between it and the symphysis pubis. The uterine wall is about the same thickness as in the full time specimens. The foetus lies with its back directed to the left, the head downwards, turned over the right shoulder, and occupying the left oblique diameter of the pelvis—occipito-posterior —fourth cranial position. The foetus fills up the cavity of the uterus so completely that it could hardly have been able to reverse its position and present the breech, though it could move sufficiently freely in other ways. 48.14. Gravid Uterus and other Contents of the Abdomen about the Fourth Month of Pregnancy. Hunterian Cast No. 21. (Not described.) A plaster of Paris cast, coloured, of the trunk of a woman, the whole anterior parietes of the thorax and abdomen removed to show the positions and relations of all the viscera in those cavities. The mons veneris has also been split and turned aside exposing the pubic bones. The specimen gives a very good view of the viscera as they appear when a subject is oj^ened in the post-mortem room. The liver is slightly enlarged, and the hollow viscera are considerably distended. Between the lower coils of small intestine and the pubis is a space not more than two fingers' breadths wide, through which appears a rounded viscus very like the uterus at the end of the fourth month. It appears to be the uterus, as, though there is no appearance of the bladder be- tween it and the pubis, it seems to be rising further back among the intestines than would that viscus, and is no nearer to the pubis than it might be with the bladder empty. It has risen but little above the pubis, does not project forwards at all, and would not have pro- duced any swelling of the abdomen. Its position suggests that the distension of the intestines might well be due to pressure by it on the rectum. (h) The Muscular Wall of the Uterus. {Jar Specimens.) 48.15. Transverse Section of the Uterus Some Days after Delivery. Hunterian. RR. 8. "A section transversely through the substance of the uterus, II. S