785 DOUBLE MONSTERS. cranial vault has been removed, showing that there were two distinct cerebra and a single cerebellum. The cerebral fossae are separated posteriorly by the cerebellar fossa. Anteriorly this fossa is bounded on each outer side by a well-formed half of a tentorium cerebelli; towards the middle by two membranous edges which unite anteriorly into a single membranous septum, which is clearly the coalesced adjacent halves of two tentoria cerebelli. From the duplicity here revealed it seems probable that there was some duplication about the cerebellum, pons, and perhaps medulla oblongata. The spinal cord has clearly been single. There are two well-formed temporal bones, left of the left head and right of the right head, corresponding to two external meatus on the outer sides of the heads. In front of the cerebellar fossa, in the base of the membranous septum described above, there are two large foramina, probably for two facial and auditory nerves. The corresponding temporal bones are intimately fused together, with distinct evidence of their original duplicity remaining. There are two zygomata united at their origins, but diverging to two distinct malar bones; in the angle of divergence there is a single meatus auditorius externus. The exact condition of the internal auditory organs cannot be determined owing to the soft parts dried over them, but from the condition in the bones it is probable that they were double; compare next specimen. The upper jaws are quite distinct. The palate is cleft in both. The lower jaws are also quite distinct. The adjacent ones are rotated and the angles bent outwards (relatively to their respective heads) in such a way that, while they are set end to end, the parts in apposition are the inner sides of the angles. There are two distinct condyles and necks, with the single meatus auditorius externus emerging between them. There are two distinct buccal cavities in front, which fuse behind into a single one with single pharynx and oesophagus. There are two tongues united at their bases, a single epiglottis, and single larynx and trachea. There have been three carotid arteries—two lateral and a median ; they are imperfectly preserved. 50.4a. Diprosopus Triotus. Calf. Presented by Professor Younff. Skull of a young calf, macerated, dried, and articulated. The condition is identical with that in the preceding specimen—two