646 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. ligament, clearly lying between its folds, and projecting much more to the front than to the back. The ovary, as the specimen hangs, is above the centre of the cyst; i.e. in the natural position the cyst would be external to it, and lying between it and the fimbriated extremity, which is displaced to about 5 cm. from the ovary hy the cyst, instead of lying in close apposition to it. The outer third of the Fallopian tube is stretched over the cyst, and the fimbriated extremity lies upon its posterior surface towards the outer side. The inner part of the broad ligament forms a well defined pedicle to the cyst. From its relations to the Fallopian tube and ovary the cyst is clearly parovarian. It is figured in Matthew Baillie's Engravings, Fasc. IX., PI. VII., fig. 1, where it is also described as "dropsy or dropsical tumour of the Fallopian tube," the position of the fimbriated orifice probably suggesting that it was of this nature. Compare next specimen. For contrast between the parovarian and the ovarian cyst, see also No. 45.92. 45.114. P£!,pillomatous Cyst of the Broad Ligament and Simple Cystic Ovary with Corpus Luteum. Presented by Dr. J. K. Kelly, 1897. The Fallopian tubes and ovaries from a case of which Dr. Kelly has supplied the following history: "Mrs. M'C, aet. 29; 3 para. Well till abortion in July, 1897; since then always troubled with pains and weakness in left side and left arm and leg. This suddenly increased after last menstruation two months ago, since which she has been confined to bed. With the pain is a bearing- down feeling and a tendency to tenesmus. On admission, 19th Oct., 1897, the fundus uteri reached to li in. below the umbilicus. The uterus was movable, enlarged to greater than size of two months' pregnancy. In left fornix vaginae, and passing behind cervix into the pouch of Douglas, an indistinct, irregular tumour, partly cystic, partly doughy in character, exceedingly tender to palpation was found. The right ovary was enlarged ; there was no lividity of mucous membranes, but the mammae were secret- ing. Diagnosis—tubal pregnancy on left side probable. 29th Oct.—abdominal section. 1st Nov.—abortion, ovum about fourth week. 12th Nov.—patient dismissed well." The uterine appendages on both sides were removed. The right ovary is considerably enlarged, the enlargement being chiefly