DISSECTIONS OF THE GRAVID UTERUS. 715 " The ovum taken out of the womb, showing the external surface of the placenta, and the ragged edge all round where the decidua reflexa was torn through. This figure corresponds with the second figure of the preceding plate (specimen No. 48.153) showing the surface of the ovum which was attached to the inside of that womb. " A AAA. The decidua reflexa going off, all round, from the edge of the placenta, to cover the chorion. BBS. The edge formed all round the brim or border of the placenta, by cutting the decidua reflexa where it came off' from the decidua, or in other words, from the inside of the womb. The round surface enclosed by that edge is the outer surface of the placenta, which had adhered to the womb. In separating those two parts many arteries and veins were torn through, one part of each remaining with the womb, the other with the placenta. The arteries, as in the preceding figure, are small convoluted, and of a lighter colour (injected red) as at the letters CCC; the veins make broad dark spots (injected black) as at the letter D." The structures indicated by letters in the plate are readily identi- fied by their colours and positions in the specimen. It also shows, as described under PI. XXVIL, fig. 2, " the decidua reflexa, covering the transparent membranes, in white and opaque striae. It was become so thin by extension as to be rendered almost transparent in many places. It had not as yet contracted an adhesion with the decidua which covered it." Much of the injec- tion mass has fallen out of the intervillous blood spaces of the placenta, showing most beautifully its spongy texture. The foetus, quite uninjected, is seen through the transparent membranes, with a coil of the umbilical cord round its neck. The specimen is hung by means of a small fine sponge, which having been intro- duced through a comparatively small hole into the cavity of the amnion, has expanded so as to aff'ord a broad support to the fine membranes, which would have torn had the silk been attached to them directly. 48.155. Uterus and Ovum "in the Fourth Month." Hunterian. BE. 182. William Hunter's Gravid Uterus, PI. XXX. and PI. XXXI. The one face of the specimen shows what is figured as PI. XXX., and described as follows : " From the twelfth subject, in the fourth II. X