594 HUNTPRIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. more superficial ones of various shapes from being closely pressed together; they show no sign of becoming horny or squamous ; the nuclei are oval and very large. There are also some solid rounded bodies composed of the same epithelial cells, in large masses, with very thin fibrous septa between them—appearances characteristic of an actively growing carcinoma rather than of a papilloma. The specimens are parts of growths removed by suprapubic cystotomy and scraping, from a woman (Mrs. C), aet. 59. Patient was admitted to the Glasgow Samaritan Hospital in June, 1897, with a history of painful and frequent micturition since three years pre- viously. Pus and blood had been present in the urine for a year. She complained of pain in the left iliac and hypogastric regions. Her appearance was markedly cachectic, suggesting the presence of malignant disease. Examination per vaginam revealed a consider- able growth in the region of the trigone of the bladder, which with the cystoscope was recognized as papilloma. After the scraping the base of the growth was cauterized. Patient was readmitted in January, 1898, on account of a return of the symptoms, and a similar operation was performed. The growth was more extensive than before, and involved the ureters. Thereafter right hydrone- phrosis and uraemic symptoms developed, which both passed off and she returned home. In October, 1898, she was seen : the operation wound had opened, and some sloughing masses of tumour protruded through it; she was obviously ill, but able to go about. In the end of March, 1899, she was still alive and able to do her house work; but towards the end of April she died. Post-mortem ex- amination was not obtained. 43.59. Sarcoma of the Prostate Gland. Hunterian. —. The greater part of a bladder, opened from before, with a large mass, evidently prostate gland enormously enlarged by tumour, occupying its base. The tumour is of irregularly rounded form, measures 9 cm. in diameter (rather larger than a cricket ball). The urethra, opened in front, is not deeply embedded in the tumour, which extends backwards, and laterally underneath the bladder, and up into it in the region of the trigone in a large irregularly rounded and lobulated mass of fairly soft consistence. The bladder is turned back to show the excrescence in it, which rises above the orifices of the ureters, blocking the right one, which is considerably dilated, but leaving the left patent, as it opens to the