614 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. Fallopian tubes. The lower part of the specimen, the myoma, which is about the size of a large orange, springs by a neck about 3 cm. in diameter from the posterior wall of the uterus a little above the os internum, and hangs down into the vagina. It has inverted the lower (cervical) part of the uterus, and dragged the rest down bodily, and partly inverted it. The Fallopian tubes with the uterine tissue between them form a narrow ridge, straight on the top, behind which dips down a deep pocket of inversion of the fundus uteri corresponding to the attachment of the tumour. The different layers are united by fibrous adhesions. 45.4. Inversion of the Vagina and Prolapse of the Uterus. Himterian. CO. 61. The uterus, appendages, and part of the vagina, " from the dissecting room," " vagina had been so inverted and exposed to the air that it had acquired the look of skin, and was hard and callous." The greater part of the vagina has been cut away; the uterus is opened behind ; the os is somewhat spread out; it is level with the surface of the everted vagina. The ovaries are both cystic ; the right as large as a walnut. 45.5. Prolapse of the Uterus causing Retention of Urine. Himterian. CC. 59a. The posterior wall of the bladder and the urethra (opened above) with the uterus and jDart of the vagina, showing the uterus pro- lapsed till the OS is at the level of the neck of the bladder. The old description is as follows :—" The bladder, and uterus also of a maid at forty-five ; os tincae here also round; but it is principally intended to show uterus growing close to the bladder; the os tincae pressed on the neck of the bladder, and occasioned inability to make water; even the catheter could not be introduced till she was bled; was at this rate bled about three hundred times in five years ; was not dropsical." The uterus and appendages and bladder are considerably matted together by fibrous adhesions, and the anterior vaginal wall from the cervix to the urethra is not much more than 2 cm. in length, and much folded. The uterus is about the normal size, and quite straight. The rectum and posterior vaginal wall have been cut away.