STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. 587 both fairly tight—the one about two inches from the meatus, the other near the bulb. The penile one narrow, the bulbar one of considerable extent. (Matthew Baillie's Engramngs, Fasc. VIII., PI. IV., fig. 2.) 43.35. Stricture of the Urethra resulting in a Urinary- Fistula. Hunter ian. A A. 42. A bladder and penis, the urethra opened from the dorsum, showing a very tight stricture of the penile portion, a little in front of the scrotum. The mucous membrane of the part of the urethra anterior to the stricture has been diseased, and is rough and more or less contracted. Behind the stricture is an irregular dilatation from which the fistula rises and j^asses slightly forwards, to open on the skin just in front of the scrotum ; marked by a bougie. 43.36. Stricture of the Urethra; Ulceration of Mem- branous Portion; Perineal Abscess; Dilatation of Ducts of Prostate Gland. Hunterian. AA. 45. A bladder with a portion of the penis, laid open from the dorsum, showing the above. There is a large ulceration of the floor of the membranous part of the urethra, through which an abscess cavity, about as large as a walnut, can be seen. Just at its anterior margin is the stricture, which was the cause of the condition, partly destroyed by the ulcerative process. " The bladder is considerably thickened and fasciculated; the prostate gland has its ducts enlarged from the pressure of the urine backward." (Figured in Matthew Baillie's Engravings, Fasc. VIII., PI. V., fig. 1.) "Represents an ulcer in the membranous part of urethra. It is of considerable extent, and had destroyed not only the coats of the urethra, but the integuments at this part." 43.37. Very Tight and Extensive Stricture of the Penile Portion of the Urethra. False Passages; Perineal Abscess and Fistula; Sinuses in Corpora Caver- nosa. Hunterian. BB. 58a. The bladder, penis, and perinaeum, " from a body in the dissect- ing room," the anterior part of the penis opened from below, the bladder and bulb from above. There was stricture from well forward back to the bulb of the urethra. "Bougies had been II. N