508 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 38.7. Impacted Gall Stone. Hunterian. P. 66. " The duodenum slit open to show a gall stone an inch long and half an inch in diameter in the very orifice of the duct, so that the person must have died in a fit of the colic" (Hunterian Plate, extra, fig. 6). 38.8. Impacted Gall Stone. Hunterian. U. 49a. The gall bladder, bile ducts, and part of the duodenum mounted on black paper, showing a gall stone "about the size of a hazel nut," impacted in the common bile duct about 1-5 cm. from its opening into the duodenum. The wall of the duodenum has been dissected to show the stone. A bristle passed through the orifice of the duct shows the obliquity of its passage through the intestinal wall. The bile ducts are all " very much distended." There are two more stones in the cystic duct. This specimen is figured, omitting the gall bladder, in Matthew Baillie's Engravings, Fasc. V., PI. VL, fig. 4. 38.9. Gall Stone Impacted in the Common Bile Duct. Hunterian. U. 58. " A gall stone in the ductus communis choledochus, which is slit open to show that." The specimen is referred to in the description of CC.57c (now 45.48) as follows:—"From a woman in Charles Street, whose cystic duct is described as ulcerated from a gall stone as large as a walnut, and falling into the abdomen {vide No. 58 U)." The calculus is a common gall stone like that in No. 38.5; it is firmly gripped by the duct, and must have completely obstructed it. 38.10. Gall Stone Impacted in the Cystic Duct. Hunterian. U. 52a. A gall bladder laid open showing a rough white calculus of irregularly rounded shape, about 1 cm. in diameter, impacted in the beginning of the cystic duct. "The muscular fibres uncom- monly strong and fasciculated,"—seen inside the bladder. 38.11. Obstruction of the Cystic Duct by Calculi. Con- traction of the Gall Bladder. Hunterian. U. 51a. The gall bladder, bile ducts, and part of the duodenum, in which the common bile duct and hepatic ducts are quite pervious, and