SINGLE MONSTERS. 833 membranous. Its angles do not extend beyond the top of the head into the sutures, as do those of the preceding. The sutures are all wide, and they are filled in with wormian bones of various shapes and sizes; in the sagittal suture are one or two small membranous areas. The frontal suture and those between the different parts of the occipital bone are quite distinct. Circumference, 63'2 cm. (24| inches). Diameters—antero-posterior, 19 cm.; transverse, 17'5 cm.; vertical, 16 cm. 50.109. Hydrocephalus. Human. From Dr. Allen Thomson'Collection. A ver}'^ large and well-ossified skull, macerated and dried, showing the above condition. The first permanent molars are fully developed, and the right central incisor projects considerabl}' from the alveolar process. From a subject of seven or eight j'ears at least. The shape is similar to that of the preceding, the forehead overhanging the orbits, the frontal and parietal eminences, and the occipital pro- tuberance projecting strongly. The regions between these points are well filled up, giving an even rounded appearance to the sides and back. There is a gap, measuring 9-5 cm. in the transverse by 4'5 cm. in the sagittal plane, in the site of the anterior fontanelle, which has been membranous. There is also a small gap about the middle of the sagittal suture. All the rest of the sutures are filled with bone. There are numerous wormian bones. Circumference, 74-2 cm. (29J inches). Diameters—antero-posterior, 23-5 cm.; transverse, 22 cm.; vertical, 20 cm. 50.110. Hydrocephalus. Human. Hunterian. A large and well-ossified skull, macerated and dried, showing the above condition. The jaws are badly preserved, but the point of the lower left bicuspid of the second set is just above the level of the alveolus, and the two lower first permanent molars are large (both carious); the condition of the teeth, therefore, corresponds to about the ninth or tenth year. The cranium is almost globular in shape. The frontal eminences and the occipital tuberosity project slightly. The greatest width is between the anterior angles of the parietals. The sutures are all well ossified, with few wormian bones recogniz- able. There are three small holes in the frontal bone, and another