714 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. Pis. XXVII. and XXYIII. of William Hunter's Gravid Uterus. It corresponds with the last stage of dissection, which is shown in fig. 2 of PI. XXVIII. Parts of it are described under the earlier figures, and therefore the quotations are partly taken from the descriptions of those figures. The whole posterior half of the womb and vagina is removed, showing, (1) the nymphae, orifice of the urethra, " the lower end of the vagina which is rugous, and the upper end which is smooth especially behind, and the orifice of the womb, projecting into the upper end of the vagina " (XXVII. 1). (2) The state of "the inside of the neck and orifice of the womb" (XXVII. 2), which is neither shortened nor dilated, but is considerably increased in girth. Above this "it was evident that the decidua was not, like the other membranes, extended across the passage in the neck of the womb, but was continued a little way down that passage, and there insensibly lost or blended with the glutinous cement" (XXVIII. 1). By "glutinous cement" was meant the plug of mucus which so commonly occupies the cavity of the cervix; it has now disappeared revealing " the rugous inside of the neck of the womb" (XXVII. 2), and the decidua blending with the mucous membrane lining it. (3) "The circular surface at the fore part of the womb, to which the placenta, in this case, adhered. It was full of arteries and veins, which had passed between the womb and the plac§nta, and which we broke through in separating these two parts; the arteries were small and convoluted and of a lighter colour; the broken veins had the appearance of dark spots or holes, of some considerable size." The arteries are injected red; the veins black. They are very distinct. (4) " The irregular line, which surrounds this rough surface to which the placenta adhered, points out the extreme border of the placenta, which was cut off from the membranes, and where the inner layer of the decidua, all round, was reflected upon the outer surface of the chorion" (XXVIII. 2). (5) "The ovarium and corpus luteum cut through; the latter of these even at this time had an apparent cavity " (XXIX. 3). For the posterior half of this uterus, see No. 48.113 ; and for the ovum removed from it see No. 48.154. 48.154. " Ovum in the beginning of the Fifth Month." Hunterian. RE. 181. The ovum from the same case as the preceding; figured in William Hunter's Gravid Uterus, PI. XXVIII., fig. 2, and PI. XXIX., fig. 1, and described as follows: