852 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. Model 2. Left half of the same, showing the median and under surfaces. Fissures and convolutions indicated by letters as follows: Oc. Calcarine Fissure. Oc. 1. Upper. Oc. 2. Lower Limbs of same. P.O. Parieto-occipital Fissure. CM. Calloso- marginal Fissure. C.F. Collateral I^issure. C.C. Corpus Callosum in Section. G.F. Gyrus Fornicatus. F. 1. Median Aspect of First Frontal Convolution. P. \. Praecuneus or Quadrate Lobe. 0. \. Cuneus. D. Gyrus Descendens. H. Gyrus Hippocampi, with the arrow pointing to the Sulcus Hippocampi or Dentate Fissure. U. Uncinate Gyrus. 51.22. The Development of the Eye. From Dr. Allen Thorason's Collection, Nine Wax Models illustrating the above. Model 1. The brain at a very early stage, showing the three primary vesicles and the protrusion of the optic vesicles from the posterior parts of the sides of the first. Model 2. Section of a brain and external layers of the embryo at an early stage, showing the optic vesicles becoming flattened exteriorly, and, at a point corresponding to them, the invagination of the epiblast, which goes to form the lens. Model 3. Section of the primary optic vesicle after it has become invaginated with the lens (blue) in the hollow of the cup. Model 4. The optic vesicle and lens (blue) entire, showing the cupping before the lens and the ventral infolding of the primary optic vesicle, which leaves a groove (choroidal fissure) in the lower side of the stalk (optic nerve) and cup. Model 5. The same, with a section taken off the front, showing a cavity in the lens and the cavity of the primary optic vesicle. Model 6. Vertical section of the primary optic vesicle, lens, and external parts covering the front of the eye. Shows (1) the cavity of the optic vesicle much reduced; (2) the space between it and the lens, into which the mesoblastic elements pass, and there form the vitreous; (3) the choroidal fissure, which is formed by the ventral folding of the primary optic vesicle; and (4) the rudi- ments of the cornea. Model 7. Vertical section of a considerably more advanced eye, showing the thickening of the anterior layer of the optic vesicle,