512 HUNT BRIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. including the portal fissure and part of the gall bladder, and two portions of small intestine which are laid open. The greater part of the mass consists of a tumour imbedded in the liver. It appears in two of the cut surfaces, and is seen to consist of a somewhat translucent tissue in the meshes of a fibrous stroma, with cysts here and there. It has fairly distinct fibrous margins. The posterior coil of intestine, consisting of the pylorus and duodenum, is tucked up against the tumour, which has perforated the latter, and presents inside it a small ulcerated surface. The stomach and pylorus adhere to the tumour, but are in other respects quite normal. The common bile duct enters the duodenum about 3 cm. below the ulcer on the opposite side, it is quite intact; a bristle is passed through its oblique orifice. The rest of the duct and the cystic duct are slit open, and are seen to be intact; another bristle, however, placed in the hepatic duct, passes directly into one of the opened cysts of the tumour. Openings from that into other cysts could not be found, nor could the duct be traced any further. The tumour extends for- wards, involving the abdominal wall, and has infiltrated it through and through, and appears externally as two round prominent carcinomatous ulcers, each about 3 cm. in diameter. In one of the cut surfaces of the abdominal wall is seen a mass of tumour, similar in character to that in the liver, and with several cysts. A second coil of intestine is drawn up against the liver and abdominal wall, and the growth has also eaten into it. Microscopic examination shows the tumour to be a colloid carcinoma, and from its relations to the hepatic duct it probably originated in the bile ducts. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 74.) 38.26. Secondary Carcinomata of the Liver. — A portion of tissue very highly injected red, containing a number of round nodules of tissue which are almost free from injection. Microscopic examination shows it to be liver containing carcino- mata, doubtless secondary, and connected most probably with a tumour of the stomach or intestines. The tumours ajjpear strikingly avascular by contrast with the highly injected liver tissue. Nothing known of the specimen. (6) Tumours of the Pancreas. Specimens wanted.