795 DOUBLE MONSTERS. seen in the unusual width of the base of the head articulating with the two atlases, but the exact arrangement is not seen in this specimen. 50.23. Skeleton of Dipygus Tetrabrachius. Kitten. The skull, thorax, and portions of the vertebral column of a similar monstrosity in a kitten (deradelphe); male; dissected, and the skull partially separated from the vertebral columns. The occipital region of the skull shows two foramina magna separated by a bridge of bone 3 or 4 mm. broad, and two complete sets of articular surfaces. The larynx and oesophagus, hanging from it in front, are seen to be single. The skeleton of the necks and thorax, partially dissected, hangs in the natural position below the head, showing the two atlases corresponding to the two sets of articular processes on the occiput; also the manner in which the single-chambered thorax is constituted. The thoracic viscera are single. The diaphragm, like the parietes of the thorax, gives evidence of its double origin. Posteriorly there is a triangular gap extending from the oesophagus to the posterior sternum and costal cartilages, in which it is incomplete. The oesophagus comes down behind the liver into a single stomach. The liver is large but apparently single, situated to the front of the abdomen and mostly to the right side (relative to the head). There is only one bile duct. The falciform ligament is single, and is con- tinued downwards to the single umbilicus. The small intestine is single for a length of 21 cm., then becomes double for other 3 cm. further on both sides before joining the great intestines. Close above the point of bifurcation of the small intestine there is a single diverticulum, about 3 cm. long, attached by a short thin pedicle to the umbilicus, representing the remains of the vitelline duct. The great intestines and entire genito-urinary apparatus are double. 50.24. Dipygus Tetrabrachius. Sheep. Hunterian. (Deradelphe.) A monstrosity similar to the preceding in a very young male foetal sheep. The posterior part of the cranium is membranous. In this specimen the pelvic extremities face one another very fairly, their transverse axes parallel to the sagittal plane of the head. II. 2 c