HYPERTROPHY OF THE PROSTATE. 583 above. The veins about the neck of the bladder are injected with mercury; they form a rich plexus under the mucous membrane. 43.22. Hypertrophy of the Prostate Gland. Prominence of the Middle Lobe. Marked Distortion of the Urethra. Hunterian. AA. 39. "A very large schirrous prostate gland, with the bladder cut open, from an old gentleman at Hammersmith, who died after much suffering from difficulty and suppression of water, with much irritation. It was very difficult to pass the catheter, and no urine was discharged till the point of the instrument was passed up almost above the os pubis; and the enlargement of the prostate (consequently the nature of the case), was certainly known by the examination per anum. There was a stone in the bladder bigger than, an almond, the bladder was fasciculated, and a process of the enlarged prostate, at the beginning of the urethra, made a valvular operculum, the principal cause of suppression." The v^hole prostate is much enlarged. The middle lobe projects strongly, and the right lobe is more hypertrophied than the left, adding to the tortuosity of the urethra. The term suppression is here used with the meaning of retention; see under No. 41.48. The specimen is figured in Matthew Baillie's Engravings, Fasc. VIII., PI. III., fig. 1. 43.23. Greatly Hypertrophied Prostate Gland. Promin- ence of the Middle Lobe. Obstruction of the Urethra. Hunterian. AA. 39fl. Prostate gland with part of the dilated and hypertrophied bladder, showing the above. Two sides of the prostate have been cut to show the organ in section. One of these surfaces is figured in Matthew Baillie's Engravings, Fasc. VIIL, PI. III., fig. 3, as "scirrhous enlarge- ment of the prostate gland," but " not exactly of the same nature with that kind of scirrhus which terminates in cancer." 43.24. Enormously Hypertrophied Prostate Gland and Bladder; Perforation of the Bladder; Extravasa- tion of Urine and Abscesses in the Pelvic Cellular Tissue; Fistula between Urethra and Rectum, Hunterian. A A. 36 c. The prostate and bladder, hardened, and opened from before.