616 HUNT.ERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 45.9. Eversion of the Vagina with Incomplete Prolapse of the Uterus. Hunterian. CC. 60c. A similar preparation, but smaller and without the symphysis pubis. The surface of the vagina is ulcerated in several places. " From the dissecting room." III. Changes the Kesult of Inflammatory Disease. 45.10. Mortification of the Vagina. Hunterian. CC. 62. "Vagina inverted; it sloughed away entirely from the os tincae ; the woman, notwithstanding, recovered." " This mortified vagina came from a gentlewoman whom I attended in a miscarriage. I saw what came away, in which there was nothing uncommon, and therefore I had no occasion to examine her. She was taken with a quickness of the pulse, and had a little fever; this at first I thought to be a little cold. The fever grew more considerable, and I advised her physician. Dr. Battle, might be consulted. He attended her, and I took my leave. In two or three days I called again and found her much worse, and then she told me there was something extraordinarj'^ the matter, for the parts were all black. I examined her, opened the labia, which, with the nym- phae, clitoris, and, in short, every part within my sight, were quite black, and blacker than I ever saw any mortification. At the same time she had a burning heat upon her, and a very quick pulse ; it was a mortification, but could have had no relation to her lying in, where she might have been hurt by hands or instruments; but here it was quite different. She had got a mortifi- cation that was likely to kill her. Mr. Middleton was employed, and on considering the woman's pulse, and seeing the mortification go on so, we had not the least hopes. The mortification went on and on and at last separated, and when the sloughs were thrown off, all the flesh was found to come away quite down to the OS sacrum, and in one dressing a deal of sloughs, etc., fell into the vagina and it could not be brought away, but it stuck close just at one end. When it came away, Mr. Middleton and I examined it, and we found that the whole of the inside of the vagina as far as the inside of the os tincae entirely sloughed off, and the inside of the thighs and hips, etc., sloughed away. Now you will say, gentlemen, that this is 'one of Hunter's cases,' but if you do say so, it will not be of so