712 HUNT BRIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 48.144a. The Uterine Blood-vessels and the Intervillous Spaces of the Placenta. Hunterian. RR. 146. "A portion of the uterus with placenta adhering, injected red: the cells of the placenta are injected from the uterus." The red injection is seen in the blood-vessels of the uterus as well as in the " cells of the placenta" or intervillous spaces. There is not a trace of it in the umbilical cord. Compare succeeding specimen. 48.145. The Intervillous Spaces of the Placenta. Hunterian. EE. 147. A portion of the placenta injected red from the uterine vessels, "the cells filled apparently with fine injection of a red colour; less distinct than when coarse injection is employed; the vessels of the navel-string are quite empty, although the injection of the cells had been very minute, proving no communication." 48.146. The Blood-spaces of the Placenta. Hunterian. EE. 147a. Another portion of the same. 48.147. The Blood-spaces of the Placenta. Hunterian. EE. 151. A similar specimen with tlie maternal blood-spaces (intervillous spaces) filled with black and red injection from the uterine vessels. The foetal vessels are seen empty through the transparent amnion and chorionic membrane. The injection being coarse, comparatively few vessels of the decidua have been penetrated by it. 48.148. The Thickness of the Placenta after Injection of the Maternal Blood-spaces. Himterian. EE. 167. A similar but larger specimen, which appears to be that from which fig. 2 of PI. XXIV. of Hunter's Gravid Uterus was taken. The following passages are quoted from the description of the plate : "A section of half of the placenta priucii^ally to show what thickness it had acquired by its spongy cavities being filled with wax." The edge of the placenta is " thickened and rounded by the injected wax." " Most of the blue wax, which was first injected by the veins of the womb, was driven on towards the internal surface, and the red wax which was afterwards injected by the arteries was