746 UUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 48.240. Maternal Part of Placentula of Cow. Hnnterian. BR. 320. " A portion of gravid uterus from the cow; showing the oval fungus of the maternal part of the placenta, resembling in its surface pretty much a cauliflower. This and the foregoing preparations show that in many quadrupeds the maternal and infantile parts of the placenta are quite distinct in structure from each other, and may throw light on the human placenta, where there is a more intimate (connection) between the foetal and maternal portions." William Hunter's other writings show that it was for the very purpose mentioned in the last sentence of the above quotation from the old catalogue that he used this and other specimens of the placentae of the lower animals. He was able to separate the two parts with ease in animals, but in the human subject, owing to the intimate relations between them, it was almost impossible to do so without destroying the uterine portion,—in the full time placenta quite impossible. " In the placenta of an earlier age the union of the two constituent portions is less intimate and they may both be preserved very entire, like the vascular chorion and fungus in the quadruped." "I did this operation in a conception of four months, and still preserve the uterine part attached to the inside of the uterus." There is no such specimen in the collection. See No. 48.123 et seq.- 48.241. Maternal Part of Placentula of Cow. Hunterian. ER. 329. " A portion of gravid uterus; showing one cotyledon and the inner membrane partly detached so as to look down upon the substance of uterus; the inner membrane is perforated by a prodigious number of small holes." These are the orifices of uterine glands, somewhat dilated. Injected red; appears highly vascular. 48.242. Polycotyledonary Non-deciduate Placentation. Cow. Hunterian. RR. 321. One cornu of the gravid uterus of a cow inverted, and the foetal membranes removed, showing about twenty four maternal cotyledons ("uterine fungi") of various sizes, scattered over the inside of the organ. At one part of the cut edge is seen a great mass of the uterine vessels, injected red. In the old catalogue it is described as