404 HUNTSMAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 29.42. The Development of the Permanent Teeth. Runteriwn. PP. 64. Both jaws of a child " about two years old," injected red, showing the first dentition almost complete ; sixteen teeth are fully formed, and the remaining four cutting, or just about to cut, the gum ; also the germs of the incisors, and canines of the second set, developing in their sacs below and behind those of the first, and the first permanent molar in series behind the second milk molar (which gets replaced by the second bicuspid). 29.43. The Jaws of a Child "between Two and Three Years Old." Huntericm. pp. 6.5. Showing the deciduous dentition complete, and not yet begun to be shed. The rudiments of about twenty of the permanent teeth are exposed in their follicles, as follows : In the upper jaw the central incisors higher up and behind the deciduous incisors, and notched in front where they abut on the roots of the latter; the lateral incisors and first bicuspids are more superficial, lying close together, and the canines lie above the space between them on the same level as the central incisors. The first molars, which have no predecessors, are already near the surface of the gum behind the second deciduous molars. Succeeding specimens show how this arrangement affects the order of eruption of the teeth. 29. 44. The Jaws of a Child " perhaps Five Years Old." Hunterian. PP 69. The age of the child is not certain, but it was certainly older than that from which the preceding specimen was obtained. The permanent teeth are seen in the same order as the preceding, but they are better formed; the upper incisors have lost the notch in their edges, and are more like their full-grown shape; the lower incisors are nearer the surface of the jaw. Unfortunately, the deciduous lower incisors and right upper incisors are amissing. The old description stated that "the incisors in the under jaw stand high, as if the alveolar process had left them, and they were ready to drop out." This is probably the specimen from which fig. 4 of Plate VII., loc. cit, was taken. Dry.