DEVELOPMENT OF THE HUMAN OVUM. 723 placenta. The head and body form two ovals of nearly equal size. The umbilical vesicle, a small white spot, is seen at the right-hand edge of the lower flap of the chorion, connected with the insertion of the cord on the placenta by a fine white thread— the remains of its duct. 48.168. Human Ovum, probably in the Sixth Week. Fresented bij Dr. Service of Dennistoun, 1897. The specimen as presented was a beautiful little abortion, con- sisting of the chorion and its contents quite entire. As it lay in water it was of a circular disc shape, 4 cm. in diameter, and about 1 cm. thick. It was covered all over with villi, which were much more developed over the area to which the embryo was attached—the placental area. Through the less villous side the embryo was indistinctly visible. The history as received from Dr. Service was as follows: "July 28, 1897; Mrs. W. Last period 3rd June, 1897. Came from Portrush to Glasgow on 25th July, and was very sick on voyage. On 26th severe uterine contrac- tions set in, and on the 28th, at 7 a.m., the conception came away entire. Thus, dating conception from 10th June, the age of the foetus would be 47 days." After hardening in spirit one side of the chorion was carefully removed. The amnion occiijjies only a small part of the cavity of the chorion; the rest was occupied by fluid and a very delicate, almost invisible, fibrous tissue. The amnion measures only 12 mm. in breadth. It is clearly separated from the contained embryo all round by a narrow space. The embryo is curled up with the head flexed forward almost in contact with the breast. The back of the head is nearly straight, with, if anything, a slight concavity at the level of the mandibular processes. At the beginning of the neck the embryo takes a sharp bend, almost to the extent of a right angle, and the back below this point is continued in an even convex curve. The length, in a straight line from the angle of the neck to the end of the body, is 10 mm.; measuring from the front of the head round the convexity of the back to the tip of the tail it is about 20 mm. The eye, maxillary, and mandibular processes, and at least the first of the branchial arches, and the heart shining through the thin walls of the thorax, are clearly distinguish- able with the naked eye. In the brain the constrictions dividing it into three vesicles are quite recognizable. The digits are not