HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 796 50.25. Dipygus Tetrabrachius. Chick. Jcffray Collection. (Deradelphe.) Monstrosity of chicken similar to the preceding in kittens and sheep. The specimen had been allowed to dry, which is rather an advantage in that it allows the bones to be clearly seen. The manner in which the bodies are united by their anterior surfaces, the constitution of the two breast surfaces, and the distinctness of the vertebral columns and partial duplicity of the occiput are clearly recognizable as identical with the characters described in the preceding mammalian monsters. 50.26. Dipygus Tetrabrachius. Chick. Hunterian. MM. 44. Similar to the preceding. 50.27. Dipygus Tetrabrachius. Chick. Jalfmy Collection. Similar to the preceding. The upper part of the cranium is defective (hemicrania), and the upper jaw is short and twisted to the left in consequence of imperfect development on that side. 50.28. Kitten with Four Anterior Parasitic Limbs. Di- pygus Tetrabrachius Parasiticus. Hunterian. MM. 64. (Deradelphe with one animal imperfectly developed, or hetera- delphe.) The monstrosity, which is of the female sex and apparently new-born, was formerly described as " a kind of double kitten, where the one is complete, and the hinder parts of the other are joined to the belly of the former, and at the same time showing a junction of what are to be considered as the fore legs." The parasitic parts are an anterior division consisting of two fore legs, and a posterior division consisting of a pair of hind legs, between which are an anus, external genitals, and a little tubercle representing the tail. The two divisions were connected by a fleshy ridge about the thickness of a lead pencil. The monster has been partly skinned and dissected to show the relations of parts. The anterior division of the parasite shows no trace of vertebral column or shoulder girdle; it consists solely of two fore limbs, of which the upper arms are united by the soft parts of their posterior surfaces down to the elbows, and the fore arms and paws, being flexed to a right angle to the upper arms in the natural direction, lie pointing