882 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. much shortened as in the other two. There is also much greater doubling forwards of the dorsal region of the vertebral column. The monstrosity answers fairly well to the description of the class Iniencephale of I. Geoffroy St. Hilaire, except that the dorsum is completely covered with skin. (d) hydrocephalus. 50.107. Hydrocephalus. Human. Hunterian. A very large dried skull, showing the above condition. The face bones appear those of a child; the canines and second molars of the first set of teeth being still below the periosteum, the subject was probably in its third year. The cranium all round overhangs the base and bones of the face, and appears enormous by comparison with them. The orbital plates appear to be pushed down by the distending force within the skull. The width of the orbits is 9 cm., of the forehead directly above the points of measurement 12 cm. The frontal and parietal eminences projecting strongly give the head a quadrangular shape. The width between the latter is 19 cm. The circumference of the cranium is 65'3 cm. (25| inches). Its antero-posterior diameter is 19 cm., and its height 18 cm. A very large irregular quadrate area in the position of the anterior fontanelle, its angles reaching forwards between the halves of the frontal bones to the middle of the forehead and downwards on either side to the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, is membranous. A narrow line in the position of the sagittal suture, extending back to the lambda, is also membranous. The parieto-occipital sutures are fully 3 cm. wide, the space is filled in with wormian bones. The base of the skull is elongated, and the occipital protuberance very prominent. 50.108. Hydrocephalus. Human. Hunterian. A very large skull showing the above condition, cleaned and dried. The face bones are very small. The teeth are badly formed, and several are absent. The first temporary molars are scarcely developed; the canines project from the alveoli. The skull is much better ossified than the preceding; the subject was perhaps a little older. The shape is similar but more rounded. A large rhomboidal area in the region of the anterior fontanelle has been