699 TEE DECIDUA. a total ignorance of their subject. They can never once have looked with attention upon the fresh human secundines." {Descrip- tion of the Gravid Uterus, p. 40.) William Hunter in the above passages plays upon the different meanings applied in his day to the word chorion. Previous to his demonstration of the true nature of the decidua—that it was the mucous membrane of the uterus modified to subserve the needs of gestation—there was a confusion between the outer foetal membrane, the villous chorion, then called true chorion, and the actual outer membrane which is shed in childbirth, then called spongy or false chorion, but by William Hunter decidua or caduca. And he said in his lectures, " We will now, gentlemen, for once trj' what new language will do. I will say there are three membranes, the ' amnion,' seen on the inside of these two commonly called 'true' and 'false' chorions, the internal of which now alone I call ' chorion,' and the external one of all ' decidua' or ' caduca,' which is a thick spongy and brittle membrane. This decidua, we shall see, is a layer of the uterus." {Midwifery Lectures, MS. R.C.S.Eng., 42, c. 31, p. 33). In this specimen the decidua had become very thin as it always is at term, and when dried on paper it appears no thicker nor more opaque than chorion or amnion. A proper conception of the decidua is only to be obtained by studying it at all stages, and with the aid of the microscope. Compare particularly the photo- micrograph in No. 48.llSffl, and No. 48.176 which is a complete decidua and ovum at eight weeks. 48.108a. Microscopic Section of the Placenta in the Fifth Month, with enlarged Sketch. J.H.T. 1897. Microscopic section of the edge of the placenta from specimen No. 49.65 (Series Pathological Conditions connected with Preg- nancy), stained with haematoxylin and eosin and mounted in Canada balsam. Along with it is placed an enlarged sketch indi- cating the different structures shown. 48.109. Decidua and Chorion. "A portion of uterus, with two of decidua, the other of chorion." II. U Hunferian. RE. 116. laminae turned down, the one