HUNT BRIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 602 44.18. The Contents of the Female Pelvis. Side View. Hunterian. CC. 19. " The same preparation from a full-grown subject, only the external parts and hymen are entire; vagina seems here about four inches long, but not so capacious as rectum ; the urethra will admit a goose quill easily, and is about one inch long; the bladder on the upper side, and rectum on the under, appear firmly attached to vagina through its whole length " Looking at the preparation from above, it is seen that whereas the bladder is attached to the vagina in its whole length, there is a deep pouch (the recto-vaginal pouch of the peritoneum or pouch of Douglas) between the rectum and vagina, so that a considerable area of the back of the vagina is separated from the peritoneal cavity only by its own wall. "The uterus is not opened: it is the uterus of a pubes or girl just arrived at puberty, whose breasts will afterwards be described (Nos. 44.45 and 44.46). The Fallopian tubes, ovaries, and round ligaments are seen, so that this preparation exhibits the whole contents of the female pelvis." Injected red ; on the rectum is seen a portion of the inferior haemorrhoidal artery. 44.19. The Genital Organs in a Young Woman. From before. Hmiterian. CC. 17. The labia, vagina, and uterus of a young woman, the vagina and uterus opened from before. The inner surface of the vagina is rugose, and near the orifice is seen a little fringe of hymen. The anterior wall is about 3 inches long, the posterior considerably longer, and the cavity can be seen to extend higher up behind than in front of the cervix. Compare the two preceding specimens. (c) The Uterus and Appendages. 44.20. The Os Uteri. Virgin. Hunterian. CC. 20b. "A virgin's uterus about 16 years old," suspended by part of the vagina, and viewed from before. The os tincae " is a transverse fissure about a quarter of an inch long, and sufficiently resembles a tench's mouth." Sufficient of the vagina remains to show how the OS uteri projects into it, and that the vagina runs higher up behind than before the os.