636 UUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. transverse character, and the ulceration is confined within its lips. Microscopically, the tumour is a carcinoma; it presents characters similar to those of No. 45.81, parts of some of the cell masses simulating epithelioma. It is much altered through time. For the history of the case, see No. 45. 30. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 138.) 45.84. Carcinoma of the Body of the Uterus. Hunterian. CC. 115. " Not described in Hunterian MSS." Uterus enlarged to about the size of the pregnant organ at four months; split open from behind. Externally, it is thrown into rounded nodules which are masses of tumour, and, internally, the cavity is large and irregular, and its surface rough and ragged. The growth affects the entire body of the uterus; the cervix is hypertrophied, but the tumour tissue seems to stop above the os internum. Micro- scopically, it is an extremely cellular carcinoma. The epithelial processes have infiltrated the whole thickness of the wall of the uterus, and have destroyed most of the muscle. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 134.) (e) Innocent Tumours of the Ovaries and Fallopian Tubes. 45.85. Fibro-myoma of the Ovary. Hunterian. CC. 55«. Left Fallopian tube and broad ligament, with one half of a myoma of the ovary hanging from it. The tumour has been of spherical shape, and measures 8 cm. in diameter. The Fallopian tube lies above it, connected with it by the mesosalpinx and the lower end of the fimbriated extremity; the round ligament of the ovary descends to the top of the tumour, and at its attachment appear in section the remains of the ovary. The inner part of the broad ligament, as a whole, forms a distinct pedicle to the tumour. The preparation is injected red, and, whereas the Fallopian tube and broad ligament appear highly vascular, the cut surface of the tumour presents the usual white glistening fibrous appearance with hardly a trace of the injection. The specimen is figured in Matthew Baillie's Engravings, Fasc. IX., PI. VII., fig. 2, and is described as a "scirrhous ovarium."