788 HUNTElilAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 50.10. Dicephalus Tetrabrachius. Fallow Deer. Hmiterian (?). (Xiphodyme.) A stuffed monstrosity of the fallow deer. There are two heads, four well-formed fore legs, two thoraces, and a single pelvis with a pair of hind legs. The heads face one another, and the thoraces are more or less face to face, but turned slightly obliquely in consequence of the vertebral columns passing to one side towards their point of union, which is at the side relatively to the skulls and thoraces. The pelvis and lumbar portion of the vertebral column are single ; the hind legs point at right angles to the fore legs. The bifurcation of the vertebral column is at a wide angle ; it takes place in the lower dorsal region. The fusion involves the whole abdomen, and extends to a point which makes it appear probable that the lower costal arches and ends of the sterna were united as in the type named by Isidore Geoffroy St. Hilaire " Xiphodyme," that is to say, by the xiphoid processes only. In the present condition of the specimen the exact nature of the fusion cannot be determined. (h) Duplicity of the Inferior {or Posterior) Parts. Terata Anadidyma. Monstres Monocephaliens et Syncepha- liens. 50.11. Chick with Additional Hind Limb. Frovi Dr. Allen, lliomson's Collection. (Ileadelphe : Etienne Geoffroy St. Hilaire. Pygomele : Isidore Geoffroy St. Hilaire. Ileadelphe : Dareste.) The chick, a Dorking, which is said to have lived for a week, is well formed except that it has an additional median hind limb which has two feet. The feathers have been removed from the hinder parts and a partial dissection done. The right and left limbs and the ossa innominata appear normal. There is one sacrum, one tail, and two cloacal orifices. There is one large cloacal sac which opens by the left anus under the coccyx, and it is traceable up to the right anus but ends blindly there ; it thus shows traces of duplicity. The tail is turned up to the left, overlapping the left innominate bone, and making an abnormally wide angle with the right one. In this angle, with a cloacal orifice on either side of it, the extra limb is attached by ligaments and muscles. There is no extra pelvic bone. The femoral and tibial elements of the extra limb are single; the first