HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 562 cavitj' of the abdomen, and then the peritonaeum is made tight and smooth at that place; but, on the contrary, when the scrotum is pulled downwards, the lower part of the ligament is dragged some way down through the passage in the muscles, and the loose peritonaeum is carried along with it; so that then there is a small elongation of that membrane, with an orifice from the cavity of the belly, like the mouth of a small hernial sac, on the forei^art of the ligament." 42.61. The Relations and Blood Supply of the Testicle, and the Gubernaculum of John Hunter. Himterian. Y. 53«. The lower part of the trunk of a somewhat smaller foetus, injected red by the arteries, blue by the veins, and the anterior parietes and all the viscera, except the descending colon, sigmoid flexure and rectum, and the genito-urinary organs, removed. Also the peritoneum carefully dissected off. It is very similar to the preceding, but better injected and more fully dissected. The testicles are seen, as in the preceding, at the lower end of the kidneys, the left overlapped by the sigmoid flexure. The right side, which is very beautifully dissected, shows a number of points figured in the plate taken from the preceding more clearly than does the original; it should be compared with it and with the line diagram. The description of the preceding in the main applies to this ; that part dealing with the right side in particular, applies better to this, which suggests that this specimen was used to assist the artist in the preparation of the plate. In the preceding the gubernaculum is entire on the right side, in this "its upper and fore part is cut away, that the continuity of the epididymis and vas deferens may be seen," and the course of the spermatic artery. The vas deferens, rising from the lower end of the epididymis, runs direct to the back of the bladder. Comparison of the position and relations of the testicle in this specimen with the position in the adult explains at once the origin of the spermatic vessels from so high a point as the renal artery and the peculiar course of the epididymis and vas deferens. 42.62. The Testicles " Recently Descended " from a some- what Older Foetus. Hunienan. Y. 58. The lower part of the trunk of a foetus, everything behind the acetabula, and in front, above a line from the anterior superior