HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 682 child, but in two women that had twins there were in each of them two corpora lutea. In one woman there were two together in one ovarium." (Cases of twins arising from ova from two distinct Graafian follicles. Both ova becoming impregnated, both follicles developed into corpora lutea.) See also under next specimen. {Lectures, MS. R.C.S.Eng., 42, c. 31, p. 73.) 48.59. Corpus Luteum of Pregnancy at Term. Hunterian. RB. 53. This specimen is the one figured in Hunter's Gravid Uterus, PI. XV., fig. 5. It is described as "the right ovary and tube," from the uterus of a woman who, " immediately after a natural labour at the full time," "grew faint, as was said, without apparent cause and died within the space of two hours." "The arteries were injected with red wax." It shows " the ovary cut open, with serpentine arteries interspersed through its substance," and " in the substance of the ovary the corpus luteum is seen split through the middle. No vessels appear at its centre, which is of a white complexion; but all around that centre its substance is very vascular." It is small, having passed its highest development and been contracting for some months. Compare No. 48.33. The hypertrophied tunica propria of the ovisac forms the highly vascular layer, and the white avascular centre is the remains of the blood clot which formed in the cavity of the emptied follicle. The Fallopian tube is cut open. Its lining membrane and the row of fimbriae, between its orifice and the outer end of the ovary, appear highly vascular. 48.60. Corpus Luteum of Pregnancy at Term. Hunterian. RR. 57. " Fallopian tube and ovarium at birth; corpus luteum large, its cavity triangular." The corpus luteum is only about one centimetre in diameter. 48.61. Corpus Luteum of Pregnancy. Hunterian. RR. 418. Part of the Fallopian tube and ovary, during pregnancy, injected red, showing a large corpus luteum projecting from the ovary. A small portion of the apex has been torn out to show the glandular looking vascular flesh, derived from the inner coat of the Graafian follicle, and in the centre a part of the avascular contents. (Not described in the old catalogue.)