CORPUS LUTEUM. 681 follicle. Compare No. 48.55. The number of corpora lutea (or bodies resembling them) in an ovary is not now (nor in fact was it by William Hunter) regarded as any indication of the number of pregnancies that have occurred. The corpus luteum of pregnancy disappears completely within a few months of delivery. See also under next number. 48.58. Corpus Luteum of Ovulation without Impregnation and Graafian Follicles. Hunterian. RB. 52a. "An uterus from the dissecting room, slit open ; the internal surface of the uterus is rough; the ovaria slit open show on one side a large corpus luteum, and on the other the remains of three or four former ones; from these circumstances we concluded the woman had formerly had children, and was at the time she died pregnant." The significance attributed to appearances such as are seen in this specimen is very different now from what is indicated in the above description. The so-called corpus luteum is possibly a corpus luteum of ovulation without impregnation ; but as there is no trace of rupture, it is probably only a ripe Graafian follicle, in which the yellowish inner coat (which forms the characteristic fleshy layer of the corpus luteum) is unusually thick and irregular. It is not a corpus luteum of pregnancy. The other bodies are simply Graafian follicles in various stages of development. The appearance of the cervix uteri is characteristically virgin. There is no indication in Hunter's Gravid Uterus, or in his lectures, that he held such opinions as are expressed above. He mentions the occurrence of the corpus luteum, but does not express any opinion as to its significance, beyond mentioning "that in all bodies who have died pregnant soon after conception, there is what has been called a corpus luteum in one ovarium, which has been looked on as the calyx of the ovum, which ovum has been thought to be taken up by the Fallopian tubes and carried to the uterus. Whether this be calyx which contained the ovum, or whether it be a glandular substance separating the female seed, I cannot pretend to say; but in general if j'ou cut up the two ovaries, you will find in one a glandular round substance, extremely vascular); and by examining women who have died early I have found that it is always hollow. In the later months it is contracted, so that there is no cavity and only a white speck in the middle. What is very remarkable, there are never two corpora lutea found in a woman big with only one