804 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. THORACOPAGUS. Double monstrosities consisting of two foetuses fused by the anterior parts of the thorax and abdomen above the umbilicus, which is single. The heads, necks, and hind quarters are distinct. In the highest degree of fusion (the only form represented in the collection) the lateral folds have united across the plane of union, constituting two breast surfaces looking right and left, forming a single thoracic cavity, the arrangement of the walls being the same as in the preceding three genera. The mode of origin, however, and consequently the arrangement of the viscera, is different. In the least degree of union (xiphopage) the foetuses are connected only by a fleshy band rising from each between the lower end of the sternum and the umbilicus; all the internal organs are perfectly distinct, so that it would be possible theoretically for them to be divided and live apart; in all the higher degrees this would be impossible. The leading points of diff'erence, as described by Dareste {Production Artificielle des MonstruosiUs), are as follows : In all except the last-mentioned genus, where all the internal organs are distinct, the viscera of one of the foetuses are transposed. The heart may be single, compound, or double, and it is situated to one side of the median plane of the animal. Where there are two hearts, they lie on either side of the plane of union, instead of on it as in the syncephalus, and each is formed wholly by one foetus, instead of being formed by half from both. A compound circulatory system is the rule. There are two oesophagi which pass down in the natural position close to the vertebral columns, between them and the hearts, instead of a single median oesophagus. In consequence of this disposition of the viscera the thorax in these monsters is symmetrical across the plane of union but not across the median plane, whereas in the syncephalus it is symmetrical in both directions. 50.40. Thoracopagus Tetrabrachius. Calf. J<iffraij Collection. Monstrosity about 25 cm. (10 inches) long, composed of two foetal calves fused together by the anterior parts of the thorax and abdomen from the root of the neck down to the umbilicus. The animals lie accurately face to face ; both sides having exactly the same appearance externally. There are two equally well-