THE BLOOD-VESSELS OF THE GRAVID UTERUS. 673 The veins are enormous—about five times the size of the arteries. The end of the spermatic is raised up from the specimen being hung by it on one side. The hypogastric reaches the side of the uterus at the level of the cervix. 48.28. The Blood-vessels of the Gravid Uterus. Hunterian. RB. 176. " Section of the uterus, with the placenta adhering; the cells of the placenta are injected red from the vessels of the uterus." It is rather more than half of a uterus, about the sixth month probably, right side, and half of the bladder. Apparently both arteries and veins are injected red. They are finely dissected so as to show, as in the preceding, the two sets: (1) hypogastric, coming to about the level of the cervix; and (2) spermatic passing in along the broad ligament. These meet and form a great anastomosis in the walls of the uterus. Compared with the non-gravid uterus, the blood- vessels are greatly hypertrophied; the spermatic vessels especially look enormous, being fully distended by the injection. Under the site of the placenta the uterine wall is honeycombed with large vessels, the greater part of the increased blood-supply going to this organ. The specimen also shows the condition of the cervix at this period of gestation. It is considerably thickened and its cavity enlarged, but it is not shortened, nor has its cavity spread out and become merged in that of the body at all. Compare Nos. 48.44-48.50. The ovary is split open, showing a corpus luteum. Compare Nos. 48.51 et seq. 48.29, The Blood-vessels of the Uterus. Hunterian. BE. 19. "The spermatic and hypogastric arteries and veins, injected on the gravid uterus upon one side; the former red, the latter yellow; very fine." The specimen consists of the vessels dissected out and mounted separately. The injection masses, especially the yellow, are breaking down badly and falling out of the vessels. 48.30. The Blood-vessels of the Uterus. Hunterian. BB. 29. " The other side of ditto; the trunk of the vein almost ten times the size of the artery." Similar to the preceding.