74a COMPARATIVE ANATOMY OF THE PLACENTA. SECTION IV. Comparative Anatomy of the Placenta and Membranes. 48.229. Mucous Membrane of Gravid Uterus of Sow. Diffuse and Non-deciduate Placentation. Hunterian. RPi. 347. " A section of the gravid uterus from the sow, showing the inner membrane extremely vascular, which in that animal joins with the chorion without the intervention of a placenta." The mucous membrane is thrown into innumerable fine rugae, traversed by a rich capillary plexus. To this rugous surface is adapted a correspondingly rugous surface of chorion, extremely vascular with foetal vessels. Between the vessels of these two surfaces the interchange of nutrient material and gases goes on as in the more highly specialized placentae of other mammals. The hyper- trophied mucous membrane and the chorion form a placenta simply by apposition of the two surfaces, all (or nearly all) over the inside of the uterus, without any interlacing of their struc- tures ; in parturition the chorion simply strips off from the uterine mucous membrane, and scarcely any uterine tissue is shed. From these two circumstances, this form of connection between the mother and the foetus is described as diffuse and non-deciduate. 48.230. "Chorion from the Mare." Diffused Placenta; Foetal Portion. Hunterian. PJi. 354. " A portion of the chorion from the mare ; the arteries being injected red, and the veins yellow; and showing on the side next the uterus an infinite number of small tubercles consisting of shaggy vessels, forming a bond of union between the chorion and the uterus and serving the purpose of placenta." The chorion appears as a very vascular membrane covered with small globular highly vascular processes (the " tubercles "), which fitted into crypts in the uterine mucous membrane. With a magnifying glass each process can be seen to be covered with innumerable fine vascular villi—the villi of the chorion. The vessels of these villi come into intimate rela- tion with the maternal blood-vessels in the walls of the crypts, and the usual interchanges occur as in any other placenta. There is no specimen of the hypertrophied and pitted mucous membrane which forms the maternal portion of the placenta of the mare, but the