786 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. crania fused together by their back parts exactly as described above. The soft parts being all removed the condition of the adjacent temporal bones appears more clearly than in the preceding ; there are two external auditory bony meatus set close together, but quite separate, and also separate internal meatus ; it is possible, therefore, that both this and the preceding would be more correctly described as Diprosopus Tetrotus. 50.5. Diprosopus Tetrotus. Calf. From Dr. AUen Thomson's Collection. (Iniodyme). The anterior half of a double-headed monstrosity in a foetal calf, injected red, and the thorax, throat, and back of neck dissected. The two heads are united by soft parts and by the adjacent sides of the occipital bones. The union is not very firm; whether it is or is not osseous could hardly be ascertained without spoiling the specimen. There are two foramina magna. The atlas is single but very broad. In the angle between the two heads are two ears, pressed close together, but perfectly well formed and distinct from one another. The two heads are thus practically distinct. In front the doubling is seen in the larynx and carotid arteries. The heart is single. There are three carotids arising from the aorta by a common trunk—two smaller lateral ones correspond to the right of the right head and the left of the left head, the third is a large median vessel which runs up in front of the trachea, crosses over the bifurcation of the thyroid cartilage (see below), and divides to supplj' the adjacent sides of the heads. The trachea and oesophagus are single. The larynx consists of one cricoid cartilage, above which is a triangular cartilage compounded of two thyroid cartilages. This cartilage is broad and flat on the top; the sides diverge widely from the cricoid cartilage upwards; it has a single opening below, and two above which point nearly at right angles to the lower one. There are two hyoid bones distinct and at some distance from one another. There are two pharynges. There are two thyroid glands which are not united across the trachea, but send processes over the divergent upper parts of the compound thyroid cartilage, which appear to meet behind it. The thymus (which has been removed) extended from the thorax right up over the top of the larynx and some little way down behind it.