HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL 422 CATALOGUE. ness. The quantity of food returned gradually increased, and about five years later, all that he swallowed was returned, appar- ently without having reached the stomach. Bougies were always arrested about the level of the top of the thorax. On post-mortem examination, the bag was found behind the oesophagus, extending a little way into the chest, hanging quite loose, and principally situated on the right side. The oesophagus was pushed forwards, and flattened against the trachea. The bag was much more in the direct line of the phaiynx than the oesophagus, and the septum between the two acted like a valve to the latter. There seems to have been some dilatation (possibly congenital) in which the cherry- stone lodged, as patient was able to swallow with little incon- venience while it was in the pharynx. Figured also by Matthew Baillie, Engravings, Fasc. III., PI. I., fig. 2. 32.9. Pulsion Diverticulum of the Pharynx. — The larnyx and pharynx of an adult, the latter laid open down the left side and turned forwards, and the former split open behind showing its interior. The pharynx shows a pouching, of considerable size, of its posterior wall, the lower edge of the orifice of which is about the level of the second ring of the trachea. It is very similar to the preceding, but situated at a somewhat higher level. The wall of the pouch is very thick, and lined with mucous membrane similar to that of the pharynx, but appears to contain no muscular fibre except a band in the edges of its orifice. History not known. 32.10. Epithelioma of the Pharynx. Hunterian. 0. 45. The tongue, larynx, pharynx, and part of the oesophagus and trachea, the pharynx and oesophagus laid open behind, showing a ragged ulcer extending from the upper end of the cricoid cartilage to about 7 cm. below it. It appears to have extended all round the pharynx. The whole wall of the pharynx is destroyed in front, and the ends of the tracheal rings are seen in the floor of the ulcer. The thyroid gland is slightly enlarged, and there are a number of enlarged and infiltrated lymphatic glands at the side of the trachea. " It killed the patient." No further history. On microscopic - examination the growth is found to be an epithelioma. (MS.