761 TUBAL PREGNANCY. broad ligament lies nearly horizontal, spread out over and adher- ing to the top of the sac; the inner part is quite free from the sac; so that there is a triangular clear space between the side of the body of the uterus, the inner side of the sac, and the posterior (now under) side of the inner part of the broad liga- ment. In the front view the cut edge of the broad ligament is seen above the cut edge of the sac wall (it is cut rather too short for clearness) ; both the layers and the fold in which the round ligament of the uterus lies are seen clear of the sac wall. The ovary, recognizable by the remains of G-raafian follicles, is seen just below the cut end of the round ligament of the uterus flattened out and incorporated with the wall of the sac. In the back view, the Fallopian tube, in what by the twisting of the broad ligament has become its posterior edge, passes on to the top of the sac and its outer half becomes firmly united to it and flattened out upon it. Below the inner (free) segment of the tube is seen the round ligament of the ovary running outwards and forwards to the ovary, whose relations to the sac have already been seen in the front view. The segment of the Fallopian tube adhering to the sac has been laid open; it is slightly dilated; a bristle is passed into the uterus, but the outer end is blind ; this blind end lies at the edge of a rounded bulging of the sac, which corresponds to the attachment of the placenta. About a quarter circle round the placental bulging, from the point where the Fallopian tube meets it, is a cyst about the size of a large pea, hanging by a short stout stalk, which appears to be the hydatid of Morgagni. There is no other indication of the fim- briated extremity of the tube. The lower half of the surface of the sac has a fibrous appearance as if it had been dissected out; the upper half being covered by Fallopian tube, broad ligament and ovary, is smooth like serous membrane. The relations of the various structures can hardly be determined. From the rela- tions of the sac to the broad ligament, tube, and ovary, and of the placenta to the end of the tube and the hydatid of Morgagni, it appears probable that the old description is right, and that the conception was formed in the outer segment of the Fallopian tube; probably at a later period it passed more or less completely out of it, through the natural orifice or through a rent as in No. 49.4, into the peritoneal cavity, and developed in the pouch of Douglas, below and behind the ovary and broad ligament. It is certainly not between the folds of the ligament nor in the ovary.