TAENIA EGHINOCOGCUS. 517 39.23. Hydatids of Bone. Hmiterian. LL. 48. The lower end of a femur, riddled with h3'datids. There is a large cavity, the extent of which cannot be determined, as it has been divided with the saw above. At this point it occupied the whole medullary cavity. Below, the cancellated end has been scooped out, chiefly in the inner condyle, into an irregular space, from which the loose hydatids have been removed, but numbers are still to be seen sticking to its walls. The shell of bone has been eroded through in three places. The articular cartilage has also been pierced in front, and about the middle of the lower surface, and the joint totally destroyed, no trace of the cartilage now remaining. The rest of the head of the bone is riddled with small cysts, which can be seen every here and there projecting from it. The loose cysts are placed in a bottle behind the bone. There is no large cyst with the characteristic chitinous wall, but the daughter cysts are scattered independently through the cancellous bone, a form of hydatid called "exogenous," in contradistinction to the ordinary form where there is one larg'e cyst in which the numerous daughter cysts are enclosed. 39.24. Hydatid Cyst between the Bladder and the Rectum, causing Retention of Urine. Hunterian. This specimen was neither numbered nor described in the old catalogue, but it has been identified with a specimen described in Med. Obs. and Inq., Vol. VI., p. 91, under the title, "An Encysted Watery Tumour, adhering to the posterior part of the Bladder, and the whole length of the Rectum, which brought on a fatal Suppression of Urine." By Thomas Gery Cullum, surgeon, St. Edmund's Bury, Suffolk. A footnote to the paper states that "the preparation of the parts concerned in the subject of this paper is now deposited in Dr. Hunter's most valuable and magnificent museum." The following is an account of the case and specimen taken from the original paper: "I was desired to visit Simon Wicks (a lad about eighteen years of age), on Thursday evening, July 25, 1776. He acquainted me that he had not voided a drop of urine since the preceding Monday. I found him with a quick pulse, inclination to vomit, abdomen very tense and painful to the touch, and the bladder seemingly distended two inches above the navel. I examined with my fingers up the anus (which was much dilated), and found, as I imagined, the bladder so much