716 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. month; shows the injected womb opened on its fore part, to give a full view of the external surface of the placenta, with the vessels passing into it from the womb. It shows likewise the state of the cervix externally and its relation to the bladder and urethra." (The lowest part of the bladder and the urethra are now cut away from a little below the orifices of the ureters). The surface of the placenta is similar to that seen in the pre- ceding specimen. The other face shows the view given in fig. 2 of PI. XXXI., after the back of the womb and decidua had been removed, " to show the foetus, in the liquor amnii, through the transparent membranes. The decidua reflexa in this subject was so thin that it was scarcely perceptible except near the edge of the placenta. The foetus, with the navel-string round its legs, requires no explanation." Figure 3 of the same plate shows the corpus luteum which is seen in the right ovary ; it has a con- siderable cavity. The drawing having been copied directly on to the copperplate, the sides are reversed in the print. 48.156. Longitudinal Section of Uterus, Placenta, and Membranes "at Full Three Months." Hunterian. RE. 189. The specimen figured in William Hunter's Gravid Uterus, PI. XXXII., fig. 2. "From the thirteenth subject, at full three months. A longitudinal section of the womb, placenta, and mem- branes, with the child near it, but still attached by the navel- string." The description and line diagram are copied entire; PI. IV. AA. The inside of the vagina. BB. The os uteri cut through. CC. The cervix uteri cut through. DE. The passage through the cervix; in the posterior part of which, E, the pennatiform rugae are conspicuous. FFFF. The section of the fundus uteri, in which the concep- tion was lodged. GG. The section of the placenta, which adhered backwards, where this womb was remarkably thick. RH. The internal surface of the placenta, covered with the amnion and chorion. /. Part of the inner surface of the womb. K. A small part of the decidua separated from that inside of the womb.