PROLAPSE OF THE UTERUS. 615 45.6. Complete Eversion of the Vagina, and Prolapse of the Uterus and Bladder. Hunter km. CO. 60. The specimen is hung by the labia majora, which, diverging widely, form a collar round the neck of the protrusion. The portion of the vulva called the vestibule, recognizable by the presence of the labia minora and clitoris, is greatly stretched and spread out. At the lower border of this is the meatus urinarius, looking directly upwards, marked by a quill. Below this, the vagina, entirely turned inside out, formed a bag containing the bladder and uterus ; its anterior wall has been divided and dissected aside, and an incision made through the posterior wall of the bladder to show that it was full of calculi. The vagina is completely everted and prolapsed beyond the labia majora. The os uteri, looking directly to the bottom of the jar, occupies the apex of the bag. From above are seen the Fallopian tubes dipping down to the fundus uteri, the top of which is quite as low as the natural orifice of the vagina. With a probe the cavity of the uterus is found to measure 8-5 cm. The vaginal wall is greatly thickened. 45.7. Complete Prolapse of the Uterus. Hunterian. CC. Qla. The specimen shows the vagina completely inverted and extruded beyond the vulva. The mucous membrane has become hard and skin-like. The Fallopian tubes and ovaries are the only parts of the internal genitals which remain visible, all the rest being down in the sac of the protrusion. The urethra and os uteri are marked by straight bougies, and the anus by a bent one. 45.8. Complete Prolapse of the Uterus. Hunterian. CC. 61/;. A very similar preparation, but with the symphysis pubis pre- served. The vagina is cut open behind to show how low the uterus has descended. The everted vagina is, as in the previous specimens, hard and skin-like. There is some ulceration around the OS, which is situated, as in the preceding, at the apex of the protrusion. The vestibule and labia minora are everted and stretched out above the protrusion, and the clitoris and meatus urinarius appear level with the skin and quite unprotected.