SINGLE MONSTERS. 821 50.78. Skeleton of Anencephalic and Amyelic Foetus. From Allen Thomson's CoUedion. (Anencephale.) The cranium and vertebral canal are laid widely open from the back of the orbits to the coccyx. The lower and upper jaws and nasal bones are well formed. The supraorbital ridges are thrown far back; the orbits are shallow and look upwards as well as forwards, which accounts for the prominence and position of the eyes in these monstrosities. All the squamous bones com- posing the vault of the skull are absent. The base makes a triangular surface, broad behind like the head of a venomous snake, and convex upwards; the widely-separated condylar processes of the occipital bone and the mastoid processes of the temporal bones form the broad base of the triangle. The floor of the flattened vertebral canal is somewhat concave. There is also an anterior fissure of the vertebral column, extending from the first lumbar vertebra through the sacrum and coccyx, the two sides of the tip of the last being united by fibrous tissue. Each row of half vertebral bodies is nearly as broad as the whole vertebral bodies above the fissure. At the point of fissure the vertebral canal is occupied by a lobed mass, about the size of a walnut. Micro- scopically this is found to consist of a dense fibrous stroma, rather like that of the ovary, with numerous blood-vessels, some clear structureless rounded masses, and some masses of round cells, enclosed in a capsule like a very cellular mucous membrane. This membrane is covered by an epithelium with very high clear cells, which dips down here and there as if into the mouths of tubular glands. In the mouths of these glands the epithelium is seen to be ciliated and also stratified. It is a deej) " tailed " epithelium rather like that of the tubuli testis. In the deeper parts of the glands it is stratified, but the cells are shorter and without cilia. Nature of the mass unknown. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 162.) The skeleton apart from the cranium and vertebral column is well formed. 50.79. Anencephalia and Amyelia. Human. Hunterian. MM. 8. (Anencephale.) A well-grown male foetus, part of the arms and legs removed, "to admit of its going more readily into the bottle." The vault of the cranium is wanting, and the base is covered by a loose bag of thin membrane. The membrane is