SINGLE MONSTERS. 827 50.99. Posterior Encephalo-meningocele. Human. Hunterian. MM. 5. The superior half of a large foetus. There is a fairly large skull, with the top removed, and a considerably larger sac hanging from it behind. The sac has a fringe of hair round its base and is covered with skin, which becomes gradually thinner towards the centre where it is quite membranous. It is double, consisting of the large outer sac and a smaller inner sac of soft membrane. The two halves of the tabular part of the occipital bone have united above the neck of the protrusion by a narrow bridge, leaving a large gap continuous with the foramen magnum, through which the protrusion has taken place. The cavity of the cranium is of fair size, and it is occupied by collapsed membranes. If there ever were any brain tissue it has been removed. The mem- branes form two sacs, both opened from above. The outer of these is dura mater, and its cavity communicates freely through the gap in the occipital bone with the outer sac of the tumour, forming a meningocele. The other resembles pia mater, and it communicates with the inner sac of the tumour, the walls of which are of similar texture. In the wall of the inner sac within the cranium are seen numerous nerves, certain of which can be traced to their foramina, as the optic, third, and fifth nerves. The inner pair of sacs are, therefore, the remains of the brain and an encephalocele. 50.100. Anterior Encephalocele. Hydrocephalus. Human. Hunterian. (Proencephale.) A full-grown female foetus, with large head and what looks like a second cranium attached to it in the frontal region. The cranium had been opened by a sagittal incision over the top of the excrescence, and the brain removed; no account of it is known. The cranium proper and the top of the excrescence are covered with ordinary hairy scalp. The cranium proper is abnormally large and round; very broad behind. A considerable area, corresponding to the lateral fontanelles, temporo-parietal, and outer parts of the parieto-occipital sutures, on either side, is mem- branous. Over the top of the excrescence a large area, beginning at the root of the nose in a narrow angle, widening to 5 cm. broad on the top, and narrowing again to a point near its base behind, is membranous. The base of the excrescence is slightly II. 2e