THE GRAVID UTERUS AT TERM. 661 of preparations illustrating the anatomy of the contents of the uterus in general, and then a larger set illustrating the different parts of it more particularly, just as William Hunter treated the subject in his lectures; see Nos. 48.83, et seq. SECTION I The Anatomy of the Human Gravid Uterus and its Appendages, mostly in the Ninth Month. (a) Size, Figure, and Situation of the Gravid Uterus, illvbstrated by Casts in Plaster of Paris. " We are now going to treat of the impregnated or pregnant uterus. We have already seen the uterus in its unimpregnated state. I shall show you some real preparations of the gravid uterus, and also some others in plaster of Paris, and in the last all the sizes of the parts with their shape and situation are exactly as in nature herself. They were made in this manner: the body was first opened and put into a proper situation; then the plaster of Paris was thrown over it, which made a mould for these to be cast into, so that the whole of them are exactlj' nature herself, and almost as good as the fresh subject. We have a good many of them to help us on; they are most useful, especially where it is so difficult to get a subject of this kind to explain upon in a course of lectures." {Midwifery Lectures, MS. Pt.C.S.Eng., 42, c. 31, p. 1.) 48.1. The Uterus at the End of the Ninth Month of Pregnancy. From before. Hunterian Cast No. 1. BR. 1. " A cast in Paris plaster, coloured after life," taken from the subject from which were drawn the first ten plates of Hunter's Gh'avid Uterus. It represents the first plate; but having been taken after the upper part of the trunk had been removed, it exhibits the body as in the second plate, but the uterus as in the first. The subject was " a woman who died suddenly in the end of her ninth month of pregnancy in the year 1750. The arteries and veins Avere injected with wax of different colours." (Desc. of PI. I.) The cast takes in " the lower half of the trunk of the body, and upper half of the thighs; shows the abdomen opened and the gravid uterus at