872 RUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. piece of wood for their nucleus. Thej' are more common in herbivorous than in omnivorous animals. In carnivorous animals they have never been observed. The nature of the food when considered along with the materials of which these concretions are formed, the complication of the stomachs of ruminants, and the large size and length of the alimentary canals of herbivora in general sufficiently explain this circumstance. They are all derived from some indiges- tible constituents of the food, and are not products of secretion, as are biliary or urinary calculi. They are classified as follows: Concretions consisting principally of Animal Hairs, 52-70 Concretions consisting principally of Vegetable Hairs, 71-89 Concretions consisting principally of Ellagic Acid {Oriental Bezoar), 90-100 Concretions consisting principally of Resino-hezoardic Acid {Occidental Bezoar), 101-108 Concretions consisting principally of Phosphate of Magnesium and Ammonium, .... 109-135 Concretions consisting principally of Phosphate of Magnesium, ....... — Concretions consisting principally of Phosphate of Calcium, 136-149 Concretions consisting principally of Oxalate of Calcium, 150-151 Foreign Bodies from the Stomach and Intestines, . 152-153 DIVISION I. Concretions consisting principally of Animal Hairs. The hairs which are swallowed by animals while licking them- selves frequently become felted together in the alimentary canal, and form solid masses commonly known by the name of hair balls. They are usually of spherical shape, sometimes considerably flattened almost to circular disc shape, sometimes oval. They attain consider- able size, the largest in the collection measures 37 cm. (about 15 inches) in circumference, but there is one from a cow in the Royal College of Surgeons Museum which measures 40 inches in circum- ference. In some of these concretions the hairs appear on the exterior, and owing to the rotatory motion which the calculus undergoes in the stomach or intestine they become disposed in a very regular manner with their points in the same direction round