HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 472 two quarts, filled with bloody water, and a few lumps of coagulated blood; the surface of the liver within it appeared jagged and uneven as if it had been gnawed; on the side of this cavity was a chamber two inches in diameter, and in the bottom of it a passage leading into the hepatic duct; the mouth of this passage was pursed up, and appeared to have been considerably larger. On laying open the duodenum, we found the perforation of the biliary ducts into it so dilated as readily to admit the end of a common tallow candle; there was not here or in the neighbouring parts the least tinge of bile, nor did it flow easily by pressure on the gall-bladder, though we could not discover anything in the passage to obstruct it. " From the above symptoms, and the appearances of the parts on dissection, there seems little room to doubt, that from the time of Mrs. Holt's complaining of the pain in the right side, until it moved to the left, this horrid animal had its seat in the cavity we found in the liver; that afterwards it worked its way from thence into the stomach, and there continued till twenty-four hours before it was voided; and I think we may reasonably con- jecture, that, when very small, it was taken into the stomach, and, passing over the pylorus, entered the biliary ducts, and pursued one of the branches of them as far as it could go, then formed its bed, and was nourished by sucking the blood, until the morbid state of the juices, or the nauseous applications used externally to her side made its situation improper; after which it returned through the same passages that had given it admittance. "The fore part of this worm was thrown away before I had an opportunity of seeing it, but from the description her sister and the nurse gave of it, and the resemblance the remainder bears to that described by Mr. Paisley in the Edinburgh Medical Essays, they appear to be exactly of the same kind; I have, therefore, sent you the tail to supply the defect of his figure. "I think this worm may justly be called an hepatic leech. If my memory does not deceive me, worms of considerable size have been found in most parts of the human body, and the same species usually in the same places; yet many of them remain, till it is too late, morhi incogniti; I think this must be for want of accuracy in observation. Animals of the same kind, and in the same situation, must produce a sameness of eff'ects and symp- toms, which might be known to the advantage of the patient and reputation of the physician. The singularity of this case