643 DERMOID CYST OF THE OVARY. 45.107. Dermoid Cyst of the Ovary. Hunterian. CC. 54. Another tumour of the same class, iacompletely bisected and both halves mounted together. As usual, there is a main cyst (in the contents of which the hairs predominate), with the remains of the ovary at one side, forming a sort of hilum. In this appears another cyst containing an irregular mass of bone ; also the wall of the main cyst in this region is decidedly skin-like in character, and beset with abundant fine brown hairs. The bulk of the hairs grow from this region, but even the thin parts of the cyst wall have a few hairs on them here and there. 45.108. Dermoid Cyst of the Ovary containing Teeth. Hunterian. EE. 37i. This specimen was originally in the Gravid Uterus series, where it was described as " A monstrous production of the ovarium, con- sisting of a jaw, some teeth, some fat, and hair." It is part of a large dermoid. As it hangs it shows, below, a mass of the usual fat and hair, above which is an irregular mass like part of a jaw. The surface of the sides of this is skin-like, porous, papillated, and covered with dark brown hairs ; its apex is an irregular gum with two fully erupted teeth, and a third one contained in a regular dental follicle ; compare specimens of developing teeth in Series 29. Above, there is a patch covered with hairs, and resembling the skin even to the extent of being brown pigmented in parts. 45.109. Dermoid Cyst of the Ovary containing Teeth. Ulceration into Rectum. Hunterian. ER. 375. Described as "some teeth in the rectum, formed most probably in the ovarium, and which had ulcerated its way into the rectum; the uterus on the other side appears to be of the natural size and never to have contained any ovum : what is remarkable is that the woman (aged about nineteen), in whom this preparation was found, appeared to have the hymen uninjured. (Dissecting room.)" As indicated above, the specimen consists of part of the rectum slit open, hanging into the cavity of which are a couple of masses similar to what is described in the preceding specimen, con- taining numbers of beautifully formed teeth—incisors, canines, bicuspids, and molars. The root of one of the molars has three