HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 792 The arrangement of the abdominal and thoracic viscera varies with the degree of duplicity, but all present the common features of the oesophagus, stomach, and intestine being single down to the point at which the single vitelline duct passes off' to the single umbilicus ; all below that double. In the lower degrees of duplicity (dip3'gus tetrabrachius) the thoracic viscera are single. In the higher (syncephalus and prosopo-thoracopagus) they are double— two hearts, four lungs, two tracheae, and the oesophagus (single) running down the centre; each heart belongs by half to both embryos. The two hearts lie on the i)lane of union under the two sterna, and the lungs at the sides of each belong to different animals. The thoracic viscera are symmetrical across the plane of union as well as bilaterally, {lirsum/' of Production Artificielle den Monstrm- siUs, Camille Dareste, Paris, 1895, p. r)12.) 50.16. Dipygus Tetrabrachius. Chick. This and the two following specimens show the lowest degree of the form of duplicity described in the introduction to this part of the series. They form a bridge between the preceding dipygus dibrachius (thoradelphe) and the first of the three allied genera—the dipygus tetrabrachius or deradelphe of Isidore Geoffroy St. Hilaire. In this monstrosity of the chick the doubling of the pelvis is complete, of the thoracic parietes incomplete. The union occurring to a certain extent laterally produces a degree of suppression of the sternum and ribs corresponding to the two hinder wings; compare succeeding specimen. The two vertebral columns unite at the root of the neck, and the neck and head are single. The two exterior (anterior as regards the head) wings are well formed ; the two inner (posterior as regards the head)— right of left and left of right thorax—are crushed together, and, while remaining distinct, are dwarfed; they articulate by separate shoulder joints on the opposite sides of a common shoulder girdle of very small size. The thoracic cavity and heart are single; the liver and lower parts of the intestines double. From the point of union of the vertebral columns to the base of the skull there is complete open spina bifida. The medullary groove has never closed, and the spinal canal appears as a flat-floored gutter about 3 mm. wide, bordered on either side by a row of minute cartilaginous processes representing the arches.