818 HUNTSMAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. a proboscis about 2 cm. long, the end flattened like the snout of a pig; in the centre of the end of it is a single shallow pit— the nasal pit. Below the proboscis is a large and prominent single eye, the only evidence of duplicity in the organ being a little groove in the middle of its upper surface. The eyelids form a little fold of skin at the base of the eye. There is almost complete absence of the jaws. The ears are tAvisted forwards and inwards to the front of the neck, almost coalescing by their lower edges. In the flat space between them is a little oval hole. Whether this represents the mouth or the meatus auditorius externus is doubtful. The body and limbs are well formed. 50.70. Cyclopia with Compound Eye. Pig. Himterian. MM. 30. (Rhinocephale.) "A monstrous pig; one eye wanting, the other large in the middle of the forehead; nose imperforated ; from the size of the head brain probably deficient." A fairly large female foetal pig. The proboscis rising from the centre of the forehead is about 3 cm. long, and has an end very like the tip of an elephant's trunk. Below it is a large prominent eyeball, in shape a fair oval horizontally, and with two distinct corneae on it. The opening of the eyelids is a rhomboidal space, its sides (somewhat curved) representing the four eyelids. The maxillae end in a narrow turned- up convex hairy point. The lower jaw and tongue appear well formed. The ears are in their natural position. The whole skull and face bones had been removed through the mouth, and they are not now in the collection. 50.71. Cyclopia with Single Eye. Pig. Hunterian. MM. 31. (Rhinocephale.) A fairly large female foetal pig, similar to the preceding. It has a proboscis "like an elephant's growing out of the forehead." This is fully 3 cm. long, and has a bony core extending about half of its length. Its end is more like the flat snout of the pig than the tip of the elephant's trunk ; it has a single nasal pit, marked with a bristle. The eye socket resembles those in the human monsters, Nos. 50.63 and 50.64. There are four eyelids, the lower ones larger and better formed than the upper, making a rhomboidal opening, in which lies a flat sac with a single circular cornea; it is recognizable as an eye mostly by