HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 836 50.116. Fissura Abdominalis. Retroflexion and Spina Bifida. Human. Hunterian. MM. 21. (Agenosome.) "Twin fellow" of the preceding, "with the same deficiency in the parietes and the same bag. Also with the ad- ditional circumstance of a large spina bifida behind. (Dr. H.'s Case.)" (History not found.) The arrangement of the viscera is the same as in the preceding, except that the diverticulum representing the great intestine is smaller and the cloaca more closed in. The legs are smaller, and there is talipes varus of the right, and talipes calcaneus of the left foot. The sac of the spina bifida is composed of thick skin, covered with down. No nerve roots are visible in the sac, which appears to be a meningocele. The lower third of the vertebral canal is widely open; its floor is covered by a soft vascular fleshy mass. 50.117. Fissura Abdominalis. Retroflexion and Spina Bifida. Human. Hunterian. MM. 59. (Agenosome.) A monstrosity, very similar to the preceding, of the male sex. The small intestine opens, close to the orifice of a cloaca, into a small round sac, which represents the large intestine. The cloaca is more widely open than in the preceding. From it a probe passes with equal ease into either the sac or the small intestine. On either side of the orifice of the intestine appear the slit-like orifices of the ureters. The testicles are recognizable in the abdomen. There are no external genitals. There is an extreme degree of retroflexion and a large spina bifida. There is double talipes equinus. 50.118. Encephalocele. Fissura Abdominalis. Eventra- tion. Absence of Left Arm. Human. Hunterian. MM. 6. (Pleurosome.) A small female foetus. It has anterior and posterior encephaloceles, no nose, the orbits rudimentary and widely separated, non-closure of the anterior parietes from the left shoulder to the umbilicus, and the abdominal viscera all outside the body cavity. The left arm is totally absent, and the thumb of the right hand. There is double talipes varus of the right, calcaneus of the left foot.