SINGLE MONSTERS. 819 the presence of pigment in it. This sac lies almost entirely to the left of the middle line, and is overlapped by the left eyelids; there is no separate sac to the right. The lower jaw is well formed; the ears are in the normal position. 50.72. Cyclopia with Compound Eye. Kitten. (Cyclocephale.) A female kitten, apparently new born, having a cyclopian eye with two corneae fused by their inner edges. There is no proboscis. The upper jaws are rudimentary; the ears are in their natural position. 50.73. Cyclopia. Otocephalia. Dog. Hunterian. MM. 29. (Opocephale.) A young male foetal dog with a strikingly mal- formed head. There is almost no cranium, but on the top of the head is a single eye in a rhomboidal socket. The four eyelids are distinct, and the eyeball has a well-formed cornea in front, slightly towards the right, and separated by a white line of sclerotic from a narrow pigmented area, which seems to be a second cornea; it is as if the right eye had developed freely, crushing the left to the side and hindering its growth. There is no proboscis above the eye, and below it there is only a rounded hairy knob without trace of mouth or jaw in it. The ears are distinct but close together, their lower borders almost meeting across the front of the neck. In the old catalogue MM. 29 is described as "a young calf; no brain, no nose, no mouth, one eye on top of head" ; but the animal in the jar is a dog, which answers to the rest of the description. 50.74. Cyclopia. Triocephalia. Dog". Hunterian. MM. 66. (Triocephale.) "A puppy where there are no eyes, no nose, an irregular fissure for the mouth, and the ears placed at the angles of this fissure." The head as a whole is very small. There is a small tubercle on the front of the skull which may represent the nose. The ears have coalesced by both edges of their bases in front of the throat, and the fissure described as a mouth is a compound single meatus auditorius externus, or rather the remains of the first branchial clefts, from which the meatus, tympani, and Eustachian tubes are developed.