590 HVNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. to join it. I traced the left vas deferens down to the testicle ; but on following the right through the ring of the external oblique muscle, I discovered that it terminated at once, about an inch from its passage out of the abdomen in a blunt point which was impervious. On examining the spermatic cord from this point to the testicle, I could not find any vas deferens ; but, by- beginning at the testicle, and tracing the epididymis from its origin, about half-way along where it lies upon the body of the testicle, I perceived that it at first became straight, and soon after seemed to terminate in a point. The canal at this part was so large as to allow of being filled with quicksilver; which, however, did not pass far, so that a portion of the epididymis was wanting, and likewise the vas deferens for nearly the whole length of the spermatic cord on the right side. On the left side the vas deferens began where the epididymis commonly terminates, and there was a deficiency of nearly an inch of the extremity of the epididymis. I then dissected the bag above mentioned, which proved to be the two vesiculae ; for, by blowing the air from one vas deferens I could only inflate half of it, and from the other vas deferens the other half. They contained the mucus commonly found in these bags; but upon the most accurate examination, I could neither discover any duct leading from them to the prostate gland, nor the remains of one." 43.43. Atresia of the Vas Deferens. Euntericm. Z. 10. " The vesiculae seminales and prostate gland cut open; in the vas deferens of the left side appears a stricture totally obliterating the canal; nothwithstanding of which the vesicula of that side was full of a brown fluid as usual. The cells of the prostate gland are enlarged from disease." 43.44. Hydrocele of the Tunica Vaginalis Testis. H'unterian. Y. 63a. A testicle showing a small thin-walled hydrocele. 43.45. Large Thick-walled Hydrocele of the Tunica Vagi- nalis Testis. Hunterian. Y. 63c. " A very large hydrocele; testicle lying in the very lowermost part, but the tunica vaginalis so thick that it never could have