HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 814 50. 61. Peromelus Abrachius. Dog. Hunterian (?). (Ectromele.) A young male puppj- without fore legs. On the right side of the breast is a mark, hairless like a cicatrix. Under this is felt the end of a concealed limb, in which a humerus and scapula can be distinguished. On the left a scapula can be felt, but there is no outward evidence of the limb unless a small nipple like process of skin some distance below the scapula has been related to it. The animal appears to be well formed other- wise. (c) Malformations of the Nervous System, Skull, and Vertebral Column. (a) cyclopia and allied DRFOIUIITIES (MONSTRES CYCLOCEPHALIEN.S ET OTOCEPHALIENS). 50.62. Cyclopia. Human. From Dr. Allen Thomson's Collediun. (Rhinocephale.) A male foetus illustrating the above condition, but otherwise well formed and of large size. It is beautifullj- injected red, and the anterior parietes of the thorax and abdomen and the vault of the cranium and the brain have been removed. No account of the specimen is known. The orbits are represented by a narrow groove right across the face, expanded in the centre into a small rhomboidal space, the boundaries of which are the four eyelids. The orifices of the two lower lachrymal ducts are distinct with a large caruncle between them. The upper ones are further apart, and separated by a bony process covered with membrane resembling conjunctiva. The orbital cavities form one chamber with two divisions, which are connected below the above- mentioned process by a deep groove. The eyeballs are not defi- nitely recognizable. The anterior fossa of the cranium is unduly narrow. In its present state nothing can be made of the relations of the nerves except that there appears to be only one optic foramen. Above the centre of the orbital groove projects a round process 1-5 cm. long and about 1 cm. in diameter, which repre- sents the nose. It has a little blind pit on its tip. The mouth is well formed; the space between it and the orbit is flat and smooth.