HUNTSMAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 892 no doubt tliat they are intestinal, and from the lower animals. Most of them have a foreign body for nucleus. In figure they are oval or of various irregular shapes due to there being several nuclei, or one nucleus of irregular shape. "Their exterior is of a light brown colour, smooth, and sometimes polished ; when divided they present a regular laminated structure, the layers usually adhering so slightly to each other that they are readily separated into concentric crusts, which vary in thickness from a twentieth to a quarter of an inch. Each concentric layer is composed of an assemblage of fine crystalline needles, which radiate from the centre to the circumference of the calculus, so as to give it when broken a beautifullj' striated appearance. This species never attains so large a size as the triple phosphate calculus." (Catalogue of Calculi, R.C 8., Eng., p. 251.) The largest specimen in the collection measures 7 by 6'3 cm. (2f by 2^- inches). The diphosphate of lime calculi are mostly exceedingly hard ; they fuse with difficulty before the blowpipe; if phosphate of magnesia be present, they fuse more readily. They dissolve in hydrochloric or acetic acid, and the solution gives an amorphous deposit on neutralizing with ammonia. *52.136. Phosphate of Calcium Concretion. Hunterian. A beautiful oval concretion divided longitudinally. Its exterior is of light brown colour, smooth and polished. In section it is seen to be made up of a number of concentric shells, like the rings of a tree, which are readily separable ; this has been done with the one portion. Each of the shells is beautifully smooth inside and out like the exterior of the concretion; each is composed of a large number of very fine lamellae, which show no tendency to split apart. The grain of the stone being very close, the crystalline structure is not so apparent as in some of the others, especially those which have been broken instead of cut. The nucleus is an oval mass of bone about the size of a plum stone. The calculus measures 6'2 by 4'8 cm. {Hunterian Plate VIII., fig. 6.) *52.137. Phosphate of Calcium Concretion. Hunterian. A similar concretion divided transversely. The nucleus is a piece of twig. {Hunterian Plate VII., fig. 3.)