THE UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. 603 44.21. The Os Uteri. Virgin. Hunterian. CC. 20c. "A virgin uterus" and appendages "from a girl about 18 years old," laid open in front, suspended by the posterior wall of the vagina, showing the os uteri a transverse slit. 44.22. The Os Uteri after Ohild-Bearing. Hunterian. CC. 20a. Part of the body and the cervix of the uterus of a wonaan who had borne a child, suspended obliquely upside down, showing the os uteri a small round hole with the cicatrices of former lacerations radiating from it. 44.23. The Female Genital Organs and Bladder. From an Adult. Hunterian. CC. 21. The uterus and vagina are laid open from behind, and the bladder, which has been partly distended, and the urethra from before. Below are seen the labia majora and minora, with the clitoris, the orifice of the urethra, and the hymen, which has been cut across. The last is very small and indistinct, as are also the rugae of the vagina. The subject was, therefore, probably not a virgin, but the rugae of the cervix uteri, and the size and shape of the uterus show that she had not borne children. In front is seen the bladder with bristles in the ureters, and the urethra opened down to its orifice. The shortness of the latter, and the absence of firm structures round it, contrasts with the condition in the male. The floor of the urethra is thrown into rugae. The preparation is injected red. The vagina, bladder, and urethra, and the fimbriated extremities of the Fallopian tubes appear very vascular. 44.24. The Female Genitals and Bladder in an Adult. Hunterian. CC. 22. A similar preparation, but without the labia majora, and not injected. The divided ends of the hymen, marked with knots of thread, are very distinct. " Vagina very rugous, especially on the side next the urethra." There is a piece of tinfoil rolled in the urethra, and bristles in the ducts of "Cooper's (Bartholini's) glands, and by the edge of the hymen." There are also bristles in the Fallopian tubes. II. o