812 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. The thorax and most of the abdominal viscera are well formed. The caput caecum and ascending colon are greatly distended, and of dark colour. The rectum is less distended, and appears normal where it passes out of sight in the pelvis, but it ends blindly. A dimple in the back just below and to the left of the lower end of the open vertebral canal probably represents the anus, but it is quite imperforate. There are no external genitals, but there are two testicles with gubernacula lying in the lower part of the abdomen. 50.53. Phocomelus. Human. From Dr. Allen Thomson's Collection. (Phocomele.) A male foetus, apparently about full time, of which the head and body are well formed, but the limbs are short and stumpy. In shape and position they resemble those of an embryo of six or seven weeks. The digits are short, but spread out from one another as in the early embryo, and the different joints are not indicated. The wrists and elbow-joints are recognizable; the upper arm is extremely short. In the lower limbs the ankles are marlied l)y constrictions, but the rest of each limb hardly amounts to more than a buttock, on the lower and anterior part of which is planted the foot. The sole of the foot is directed inwards with the great toe nearer the head, as in the early embryo. It looks as if there had been an arrest of development without arrest of growth. 50.54. Phocomelus. Human. From Br. Allen Thomson's Collection. A similar monstrosity in a, large male foetus. The head is of enormous size, and the cranium largely membranous—hydro- cephalus. The arms and legs are in exactly the same condition as those of the pi'eceding, except that the hands are a little better developed, the different joints of the fingers being quite recognizable. 50. 55. Peromelus. Human. Hunterian. MM. 67. A full-time female foetus, apparently well formed with the exception of the limbs. These are also well shaped but unduly short. All the joints are recognizable.