,S8(i lIUNTEItl. I A' .1N. I TOMR W L CA T. IIJXIVE. 52.107. Resino-bezoardic Acid Calculus. Hmdanun. Half of a small concretion with a date stone for nucleus; in shape a long oval like the stone. 52.108. Resino-bezoardic Acid Calculus. Hunfcrvm. Portions of a concretion of the same class, about the size and shape of an apricot stone. Nucleus absent. DIVISION IV. Calculi conninting of Phos'pltaie of Magnesium and Ammonium—Triple Phosphate Calculus. This species of calculus is the ordinary intestinal concretion of horses. There are twenty-six specimens of it in the collection. The liistory of most of them is unknown ; those of which tliere is any were taken from the intestines of horses. They are usually found in the caecum or other parts of the large intestine. The largest in the collection (only one half present now) measures 22 inches {■^& cm.) in circumference, and weighed before it was cut over 14 lbs. The colour varies from that of a grey freestone to that of limestone. They are formed in fine concentric laminae. They invariably have some foreign body as a nucleus, which determines more or less the form of the calculus. As they get larger they tend to take a rounded form. The outer crust sometimes has a distinctly crystalline structure. Chemically they consist principally of triple phosphate, with almost invariably traces of the earthy phosphates of calcium and magnesium. Some of them also contain traces of earthy carbonates and sulphate of calcium. They also contain a large amount of animal matter; also frequently vegetable fibres and grains of sand and other inorganic particles.. Heated before the blowpipe, they swell up, become white and opaque, and finally fuse ; the fusion being very difficult if they are pure triple phosphate, less difficult as the proportion of earthy phosphates becomes greater. They dissolve in hydrochloric and acetic acid; a crystalline deposit of triple phosphate is thrown down on neutralizing the solution with ammonia. " With regard to the origin of triple phosphate calculi, most authors agree that they are formed from the phosphate of magnesia