672 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. the interior of the uterus after labour should be compared with that under specimen No. 48.20, which tends to convey the impression that William Hunter agreed with the erroneous opinion that the muscular wall of the uterus was laid bare at every confinement. On the contrary, from this and other passages in his works {e.g. on pp. 25 and 47 of Rigby's edition of the Description of the Gravid Uterus), it is evident that he knew that "one stratum of the decidua is always left upon the uterus after delivery"; compare No. 48.90, which shows a uterus at full time emptied and inverted. The specimen, from long maceration in too weak spirit, is not as plain as it once was. It was described as showing the two orders of " concentric fibres around the orifices of the Fallopian tubes," which "meet or become reciprocally tangents" on the "middle of the fundus of the womb," the third order of fibres "going circularly round the body of the womb," and "the triangular interstice between the three orders of circular fibres, where they all blended, and take a variety of directions." One surface shows the seat of adhesion of the placenta, " where the fibres form irregular interwoven bands, in the interstices of which were the orifices of the veins which went into the spongy part of the placenta." Compare Nos. 48.35-48.43, and 48.103, showing the placental site and the arrangement of the muscular fibres therein. (c) The Blood-vessels of the Gravid Uterus. 48.26. Vascularity of the Gravid Uterus. Hunterian. EE. 17. " One side of the gravid uterus, also at the ninth month; arteries injected red, veins yellow, to show vascularity from without; the placenta is left adhering, and has its cells injected from the uterus." The yellow injection has dissolved, and the veins are mostly seen now as empty spaces. 48.27. The Blood-vessels of the Gravid Uterus. Hunterian. BE. 18. One side of the uterus, at full time, with the ovary, tube and broad ligament, and part of the vagina; the arteries injected red, the veins green. It is dissected to show the two sets of vessels, hypogastric and spermatic, by which the circulation of the uterus ig carried on.