CARCINOMA OF THE OVARY. 645 of the tumour, dips down and is lost in it. The tumour is enclosed in a thin smooth fibrous capsule, the surface of which certainly looks like peritoneum. From this and from the relation of the Fallopian tube to the tumour it appears probable that it lies between the layers of the broad ligament. Of its position and relations in the body nothing is known. It is a fairly solid tumour, but in section shows small cysts; also necrotic patches here and there. Microscopically it is a carcinoma, somewhat similar to the preceding, but hardly so like gland tissue. It is very badly preserved. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 115.) 45.112. Carcinomatous Cystic Tumour of the Ovary. H'unterian. CC. 50. "A large portion of dropsical ovarium, in most places become solid, spongy, and cellular." The specimen appears to be part of a tumour of ovoid shape, measuring about 14 by 8 cm. Externally it is nodulated, the nodules of various sizes from 2 to 4 cm. in diameter, some of them evidently cysts with thin translucent walls, like those of an adenoma, but others as evidently are solid. The cut surface shows the upper part mostly a ragged cavity; the lower part is solid and lobulated, in texture fibrous, with the spaces between the fibres occupied by rather translucent solid material. The cysts are nearly all on the upper part of the tumour, the solid nodules on the lower. Microscopically it is a carcinoma; a section of the solid part consists of a fibrous stroma, varying in amount in diflferent parts of the section, with alveoli which are filled with masses of cells, which are very badly preserved, but are distinctly epithelial in character. The masses appear to have been solid processes of cells, rather than gland-like structures. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 117.) (e) Tumours of the Parovarium, Paroophoron, and Hydatid of Morgagni. 45.113. Cyst of the Parovarium. Hunterian. CC. 45e. The right Fallopian tube, ovary, broad ligament, and part of the uterus suspended by the tube and edge of uterus, the broad ligament hanging down, showing a simple cyst about the size of an orange. The cyst occupies the outer edge of the broad