846 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 51.15. Development of the Chick. From Dr. Allen Thomson's Collection. Models 12 and 13. Model J 2. Ninth Stage. Formation of the posterior visceral (branchial) clefts and bulbus arteriosus, completion of the amnion, commencement of the tail fold. The intestine is considerably more closed in than in the preceding, the buccal invagination large and deep. Third day. Model 13. Same Stage dissected, showing increase in the curvature of the heart, fifth aortic arch in process of formation, the auricles or rather appendices of the auricles evident, the arteries and veins dissected, the vitelline (omphalo-meseraic) vessels cut short. The vesicles of the cerebral hemispheres are developing from the front of the first primary vesicle (fore brain); the invagination and infolding of the primary optic vesicles has made considerable progress. Compare No. .51.22, Development of the Eye. 51.16. Development of the Brain of the Chick. (After His.) From Dr. Allen Thomson's Collection. Models 14-17. The Brain from the 5th, 7th, 8th, and 9th Stages. Model 14. Brain from Fifth Stage, No. 3. The neural canal is not completely closed in front. Tho first cerebral vesicle is quite formed, though still open in front; the second and third are indicated by constrictions of the neural tube behind it. Model 15. Brain from Seventh Stage, No. 6. The neural canal is completely closed in front; the three cerebral vesicles (fore, mid, and hind brain) are distinctly indicated, and the optic vesicles protruding from the sides of the first. Model 16. Brain from the Eighth Stage, No. 10. The first vesicle is dividing into two, the anterior being that of the cerebral hemispheres, which is at this stage a single vesicle growing out in front of the first primitive vesicle ; the cranial flexure is distinct; optic vesicle invaginated. There is dorsal flattening and widening of the third vesicle (hind brain). Model 17. Brain from the Ninth Stage, No. 12. Cranial flexure more marked. The vesicle of the cerebral hemispheres has