PHOSPHATIC CONCRETIONS. INTESTINAL. 893 *52.138. Phosphate of Calcium Concretion. Hunkrian. A similar calculus divided, the largest of this class in the collec- tion. It is of blunt oval shape; the outer laminae over the ends are very thin, giving it a truncated appearance. It measures 7 by 6-3 cm. It is beautifully laminated in light yellow and various shades of brown; some of the laminae distinctly crystalline. The nucleus has been a very thin straight body about 2*5 cm. long. {Hunterian Plate VIII., fig. 2.) 52.139. Phosphate of Calcium Concretion. Hunterian. Half of a concretion rather smaller than the preceding, of blunt oval shape, with a constriction about the middle of its length. It is cut, and the different laminae composing it separated as in No. 52.136. Its peculiar shape is seen to be due to its having two centres of formation which seem to have become united at an early period by a layer of soft mineral matter mixed with organic matter. The two centres have gone on growing by additions of the usual hard phosphate of calcium to their free surfaces till they attained considerable size, but the opposing surfaces of the new-forming laminae have remained separated by a layer of organic debris. After a time this organic layer has got left out, and the laminae of calcium phosphate have become continuous round both, as round a single centre, with a constriction opposite the line of union. The other portion of the stone "was given to Dr. Knox, 18/4/70." 52.140. Phosphate of Calcium Concretion. Hunterian. Halves of two concretions similar to those composing the centres of the preceding. They are of roughly hemispherical shape, the flat sides which fit accurately to one another having, as in the pre- ceding, traces of a coating of organic matter. The centres are at the flat sides of the concretions, and the laminae which constitute their bulk are formed round the convex ends in semicircles which end abruptly at the flat ends. The calculi were found separate, but fit perfectly to one another. The mode of formation is explained by the previous specimen. 52.141. Phosphate of Calcium Concretion, Hunterian. The other halves of the preceding, the laminae to some extent separated.