SINGLE MONSTERS. 817 nasal septum, and intermaxillary portions of the upper jaws. The result is that there is no nose, and that by a complete double-cleft palate and harelip the nasal and buccal cavities are thrown into one. The condition of tiie orbits corresponds with the description of the ethmocephale of I. Geoffroy St. Hilaire, though in other respects the monster is different. 50.68. Cyclopia. Ethmocephalia and Phocomelia. Human. From Dr. Allen Thommis Collection. (Ethmocephale.) A male foetus showing a deformity of the face allied to cyclopia, resembling that described as ethmocephalia by I. Geoffroy St. Hilaire. The eyes are set in distinct orbits, and at a fairly normal distance apart; but, instead of a nose, there lies between them a triangular process, with a broad and thick base in the middle of the forehead, tapering from the level of the eyes to a point which dips down in tlie centre of the face into a pit about 6 mm. deep. From either eye a deep groove (lachrymal groove) runs downwards and inwards, separating the triangular process from the cheeks. At the end of each groove is a tiny nostril. The point of the triangle forms a narrow column between them. From the pit in the centre of the face (at the point of the colurana nasi) a deep groove runs down to the mouth, but neither the lip nor the gum is cleft. A probe passed in by either nostril appears in the mouth on either side of the septum nasi, which is well developed. There is, therefore, a double cleft of the posterior region of the palate. The thick median ridge on the forehead, with its triangular continuation, represents the fronto- nasal process developed into a sore of point and bridge of the nose, while the alae, which are formed from the lateral nasal processes, have remained in a rudimentary condition, and the lachrymal grooves have persisted. All four limbs are short and stumpy, with stumpy digits; a condition of phocomelia. Compare No. 50.53. (B) CYCLOPIA IN THE LOV\^ER ANIMALS. 50.69. Cyclopia with Single Eye and Ag-nathia. Pig. Hunterian. (Edocephale.) A young male foetal pig, about 13 cm. {5^ inches) long, showing the above condition. The nose is represented by