H UNTERIA N A JVA TO MIC A L UA TALOG UE. 782 used in the titles, but in addition those employed by Isidore Geoffroy St. Hilaire are given in jjarentheses at the beginning of the descriptions in order to facilitate reference to the TraiU de Temtologie and to Production Artificielh' des MonstriiosiUs of M. Camille Dareste, to which latter work the author of the catalogue is very deeply indebted. As to William Hunter's views regarding monstrosities, he says in his lectures, " Winslow's and Duverney's notion was that a great number of what are called monsters were so formed from their first origin as if God Almighty intended those to be monsters as much as he does that others should not. Now, Gentlemen, I find that I know so little about it that it is extremely improper to give my opinion, but, however, from what I have seen I am of Winslow's mind." DIVISION I. Double Monsters (Doppelmisbildungen, FUrder : DiPLOGENESES, Daresfe). This comprises all monstrosities resulting from twin conception, and therefore includes acephalic, acormic, and anidian monsters. •It is now regarded as beyond dispute that certain cases of twins and all double monstrosities arise from two centres of embryonic formation on a single cicatricula. According to the degree to which these centres come to overlap one another in the process of cell-division to form the blastoderm and the manner in which they fuse together will be the degree and kind of duplicity in the developed monstrosity. The origin of double monstrosities being determined at such an early period in the life of the embryo, reference to the old question of whether they arise by fission of a primitively single embryo or union of two primitively separate embryos is unnecessary in describing monsters already fully formed. Accordingly the terms union, fusion, division^ and bifurcation are used as may be most convenient for pur- poses of description without implying any reference to any theory of the origin of double monsters. In accordance with the opinions of Forster, and of M. Dareste and of Professor Cleland, those monstrosities which, under I. Geoffroy St. Hilaire's classification, would have appeared as a separate order (Monstres Parasitaires) are no longer kept apart, but are catalogued along with the rest of the double monstrosities according to their affinities towards