726 HUNT EM AN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. villi of the rest of the chorion more atrophied. The foetus is indistinctly visiljle through the smooth part of the chorion. It is about the same size as that in No. 48.170, but appears to be rather more advanced in its development. 48.174. Human Ovum of Fully Three Months. Hunicrian. ER. 252. " An ovum, considerably advanced ; with decidua almost entirely removed, discovering the shaggy vessels of the chorion ; the child not remaining, but there is hanging down a considerable portion of navel-strins;." 48.175. Human Ovum and Decidua. Hunterian. BR. 229. A human ovum, said to be " about six weeks old," with the decidua. The specimen shows the thick fleshy bag of the decidua vera laid open and turned aside, revealing the globular projection of the decidua reflexa enclosing the ovum. Part of the decidua reflexa has been removed to show the chorion, partly smooth, partly villous. 48.176. Decidua and Ovum of about Eight Weeks. Hunterian. RR. 214. A miscarriage, in which the decidua has come away almost entire along with the enclosed ovum, dissected to illustrate the anatomy of the decidua, its different layers, and their relation to the ovum during the early months of gestation. The decidua (decidua vera) is opened by crucial incision, showing the cavity between it and the decidua reflexa—the cavity of the uterus or cavity of the decidua. Bristles are passed in by two holes at the upper corners, corresponding to the orifices of the Fallopian tubes, and out by the orifice at the lower angle, corresponding to the internal os uteri. A round part of the decidua reflexa and a smaller area of the chorion have been cut out, showing the villous chorion and the cavity of the amnion. The angle where the decidua reflexa turns up over the chorion is well exhibited. Behind at the upper part is seen the decidua serotina with the tips of villi projecting through it, where the placenta was in process of formation. The specimen illustrates the nature of the decidua, the relations of its diff'erent layers to one another and to the ovum