HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 81G the cerebrum, which was lodged in the hernial sac, was placed in front of instead of above the mid brain. The floor of the third ventricle thus lies naked to view; it is formed by a single mass of brain tissue, representing the two optic thalami fused together; the only indication of their natural distinctness is a slight groove on the front of the mass. 50.66. Cyclopia. Sheep. Professor Young. 1897. (Cyclocephale.) The head of a lamb showing a condition similar to the preceding. There is a single orbit containing a single eyeball. The forehead is a rounded boss overhanging the orbit—much more prominent than the forehead naturally is in the sheep. The face below the orbit is depressed, and the upper jaw is considerably shorter than the lower. Not dissected. 50.67. Ethmocephalia and Double Cleft of Jaws and Palate. Human. From Dr. Allen Thomson's Colledion. Presented by Dr. Pagan. The condition of the orbits is allied to that in the cyclopians. There are two distinct orbits placed abnormally close together. The anterior fossa of the skull is narrowed; there are two optic nerves which enter optic foramina separated only by a thin edge of bone. The middle of the face is fiat, the position of the bridge of the nose being occupied by a deep groove in the skin. Above this groove in the middle line there is a slight prominence of the forehead, representing the root of the nose. Below the groove are two little eminences, probabl)' derived from the median nasal processes. Below the two eminences is a median depression, with a shallow groove at either end curving downwards around a couple of little eminences, which have unmistakably the appearance of the alae of the nose, and accordingly represent the lateral nasal processes. Below the alae of the nose opens a large naso-oral orifice, of triangular sliaj^e, with a little bay, representing the nostril, on either side of its apex. Within this naso-oral cavity are seen the halves of the palate, widely separated, and the turbinate bones, but no intermaxillary process or vomer—only a thin ridge in the middle of the roof, which represents probably the median plate of the ethmoid. The leading factor in the deformity of the face appears to be defect—a non-descent—of the fronto-nasal and median nasal processes, which go to form the point and bridge of the nose,