759' TUBAL PREGNANCY. she was pregnant. On the morning of the third of May signs of internal haemorrhage were distinct, and the swelling beside the uterus had increased. By noon the whole right side of the pelvis was filled by a soft tumour which pushed the uterus to the left, filled the pouch of Douglas behind, and gave dull percussion up to midway between the pubis and the umbilicus. Pulse 120 and feeble, face pallid, and vomiting frequent. Ruptured tubal preg- nancy was diagnosed, and abdominal section was performed with as little delay as possible. The peritoneum contained a vast quantity of venous blood and soft clots. The uterus was soft and somewhat enlarged. " At its right angle the Fallopian tube was caught, and out from this a soft mass was traced and turned out, consisting of the ruptured Fallopian tube and foetus of about 7th or 8th week, hanging in its intact membranes from the place of rupture." The ovary was also turned out, the pedicle ligatured, and the whole mass removed. Patient did not rally, and died the following morning. The specimen consists of the parts just a& removed at operation, but cleared of blood clot. It is hung by the dilatation of the Fallopian tube in which the ovum lay. The ovum had occupied the outer third of the tulje; the rent by which it escaped is on the upper surface, and extends almost but not quite into the circle of the fimbriae. The ovum lies opposite the rent, nearly all outside the tube, but connected with the inside of the sac by a mass of villi. "The ovum was about the size of an orange, and the outer end of the Fallopian tube, in which the placenta lay, had contracted from this size to about that of a walnut. The contraction, however, was evidently not sufficient to exercise any pressure on the bleeding vessels." It has now shrunk considerably from abstraction of some of its watery contents by the spirit in which it is mounted. 49.5. Tubal Pregnancy. Removal by Operation. Tubal Abortion. Presented hy Dr. J. K. Kelly, 1897. A Fallopian tube, laid open, illustrating the above. The follow- ing history of the case was supplied by Dr. Kelly. "Mrs. M., aet. 21, had a child, 20th September, 1896—post partum hae- morrhage. June, 1897 abortion (?) at 3 mos.—^great haemorrhage. October, 1897, flooding at time menses were due, followed in a fortnight by supposed abortion, with expulsion of material like membranes from the uterus. Severe hypogastric pain and