585 CYSTITIS. of the urethra looks like a lithotomy wound; beneath this is the abscess, which extends backwards and upwards, occupying the whole cavity of the capsule of the prostate gland, which is greatly thickened and lined with granulations. The abscess is also opened from the perinaeum. The specimen was examined microscopically, but without gaining any information, the tissues being too much altered through time. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 130.) 43.28. Acute Cystitis and Urethritis. Sloughing of the Mucous Membrane. Deposit of Earthy Phos- phates. Hunferian. A A. 40. A portion of bladder, prostate and urethra laid open. "From a dead body in the dissecting room ; case unknown ; the bladder had sloughed, and on the surface is deposited a crust of animal earth." There has been a very violent inflammation involving bladder and urethra; the mucous membrane is gorged with blood and its inner surface is in a sloughing condition. Probably a septic cj'stitis. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 112.) 43.29. Cystitis. Contracted Ulcerated Bladder. Abscesses. Urinary Fistulae opening in the Perinaeum and at the Umbilicus. Hunferiim. BB. 44. "An extremal}' ulcerated bladder from a subject in the dissecting room; its size is small, having never been much distended probably for years past; there is a fistulous orifice just before the caput gallinaginis leading to perineum; at the upper part of the bladder the ulceration had gone through to the peritoneal coat and formed an abscess, which was guided by the ligamentous urachus to the navel, where it opened externally; so that matter was discharged, and probably urine also, both at the navel and perineum." 43.30. Cystitis in a Hypertrophied Bladder. Hunterian. A A. 33. " A portion of (Hocquet's) bladder; amongst other symptoms he had great pain in making water, with scalding; sometimes the urine appeared like pus, at other times bloody; the muscular fibres are collected in bundles, much enlarged, but deprived almost entirely of their covering, the inner coat of the bladder being destroj^ed;