810 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. stance resembling rather dense adipose tissue, covered by a very thick skin. In this is embedded a vertebral column with rudimentary thorax. The vertebral column ends at the top of the thorax. Its end lies about the middle of the front of the body; a small fleshy knob projecting before it represents the head. Heart, lungs, liver, and spleen are wanting. There are a few short loops of intestine and one kidney. There is a penis and scrotum. The left leg ends in a rounded fleshy knob with five rudimentary toes, three of them fused into one process; the right is better formed, but its toes are also rudimentary; they are drawn up and twisted inwards in similar fashion to those of the preceding. 50.49. Acephalic Acardiac Monstrosity. Human. From Dr. Allen Thomson's Collection. (Mylacephale.) " Acephalous human monster. Dr. Angus Mack- intosh, 1860." Signed "A. T." A similar monster of smaller size. The main mass of the trunk is a rounded bag, which contained several ounces of muddy yellowish fluid. It lies over the spinous processes of a rudimentary vertebral column which ends at the top of a very imperfect thorax. Several threads like nerve fibres cross the sac. There is no opening into a vertebral canal to be detected. It appears to be a meningocele communicating perhaps with the anterior end of the canal, though the communication is not discover- able. The body cavity contains a pair of kidneys, one of which, with its suprarenal, is seen divided longitudinally. There is only one short loop of intestine in the abdomen, but several more in a rounded bag occupy the root of the umbilical cord. There are the external genitals of a female. The legs are in the natural posi- tion and well shaped, except that the left foot has only four toes. The skin is soft and natural. 50.50. Acephalic Acardiac Monster. Human. Hunterian. (Mylacephale.) It consists of a pair of fairly well-formed legs and a pelvis, with a small portion of the umbilical cord. The legs are strongly flexed, and each foot has only four toes. There is a well-formed vulva. From the size of the limbs perhaps about the sixth month.