670 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. its inner surface, I have observed nothing but irregularity and confusion. On the inner surface itself I have observed some variety, and always, where the placenta adheres, a good deal of irregularity. " In a woman who died seven days after delivery, I gave up the uterus to this pursuit, and examined the fibres very carefully. I stretched it gradually in warm water, then inverted it, to have a full view of its inner surface. The remains of the decidua had been melted down, and passed off with the lochia, so that the fasciculated stratum of muscular fibres appeared to be bare, and to make the inter- nal surface of the uterus. In a great number of places, but particu- larly where the placenta had been fixed, the fasciculi left oval spaces between them for the passage of arteries and veins, somewhat like those separations in the tendinous fibres of the abdomen and loins, where the vessels pass out to the cellular membrane and integuments. The cervix uteri, where the penniform rugae are situated, had not such regular nor so large fasciculi as the rest of the uterus. In the body of the uterus the fibres were very regularly circular—the fundus was made up of two concentrically circular planes of fibres, at the very centre of which was the orifice of the Fallopian tube. The better to conceive this arrangement of the internal muscular fibres, we may suppose each corner of the fundus uteri, where the tube is inserted to be stretched or drawn out, so as to make two horns or a bifid fundus as in the quadruped; then, if we understand the inner fibres to be circular in every part of the uterus, we understand clearly how they will be circular in the human uterus upon its body, and likewise circular and concentric at each corner of the fundus. When this internal stratum was removed, the fasciculated appearance and regular direction of the fibres was less and less apparent in proportion as I dissected outwards, which seemed in a great measure to be owing to the infinite number of the branches and communica- tions of the large veins. The outer stratum in general was firmer and less vascular, that is, had fewer large vessels, and therefore was more dense than the middle and inner stratum. But the lateral parts of the uterus, where both the spermatic and hypogastric vessels come to it and anastomose upon its outside, are excepted in this general observation." {Description of the Gmvid Uterus, p. 24.) Compare succeeding specimens, especially No. 48.25, which is a second uterus which William Hunter afterwards obtained, and on which he made further observations agreeing exactly with the above description.