SIMPLE CYSTS OF THE OVARY. 637 45.86. Ovary showing Cavities of Graafian Follicles. Hmiterian. CC. 52. " All ovarium cut open to show cells of the size of common peas, containing jelly, and forming the basis of future dropsy (of the ovarium)." The cells are simply the cavities of normal Graafian follicles in various stages of development, and the statement that " they form the basis of future dropsy" is warranted only in so far as it is the case that the simple cysts like Nos. 45.87 to 45.92 do originate from the Graafian follicles. William Hunter, speaking of ovarian cysts (in the Midwifery Lectures, MS. E.C.S. Eng., 42, c. 31) says, "it is so exceedingly common to meet vt^ith hydatids in the substance of the ovarium that I presume there are many of them which have no tendency to increase, and which would never produce the dropsy just now described." Compare succeeding specimens. 45.87. Simple Cystic Ovary. Eunterian. CC. iSd. Broad ligament and Fallopian tube showing a section of the ovarj' converted into cysts, which are partly filled with a gelatinous fluid. The ovary is about the size of a filbert. 45.88. Simple Cystic Ovary. Presented hj Dr. J. K. Kelly, 1897. Halves of both ovaries " removed from an unmarried patient of 31, who has suffered for many years from menorrhagia, and of late also from paraplegia and nystagmus. Pelvic pain was never a marked symptom, but was occasionally present on the left side, and was associated with some varicosity of the veins of the left leg." The cystic ovary is nearly as large as a hen's egg, measuring 5*3 by 3'5 cm., broadest near one end. Both ends are occupied by cysts, the largest about the size of a marble, the smallest about 1 cm. in diameter. They have very thin walls, and, microscopically, are found to have only the merest traces of an epithelial lining, from which it appears probable that they would never have become much larger. The other ovary is a healthy normal organ, showing numerous Graafian follicles in various stages of development. Be- tween the two organs the stages of development of the Graafian follicles into simple cysts can be clearly traced.