DOUBLE MONSTERS. 797 away from one another almost in a straight line. The paws have only four claws each, but the presence of the little tubercle which is situated on the ulnar side of the carpus, and the shape of the paws show that the dew-claws (corresponding to the thumbs) are the digits which are wanting, and that the limbs are a left one, which is towards the right side, and a right one, which is towards the left side of the developed twin. The head of the parasitic left humerus disappears under the shoulder joint of the right fore limb of the well- formed animal. Its biceps muscle partly decussates with that of the well-formed right limb, partly passes on to be attached to the acromion process of the right scapula. The parasitic right fore limb is attached by ligaments and muscles to the other parasitic fore limb, and to the right side of the neck of the animal nearer the head. Muscles pass from it to the right scapula and to the right mastoid region of the head. On dissection the fleshj^ ridge uniting the anterior part of the parasite to the posterior part was found to consist merely of skin and adipose tissue, on the removal of which a narrow quadrilateral opening into the cavity of the thorax was revealed. This space is bounded below by the upper surface of the posterior division of the parasite, above by the under surface of the anterior division, and on either side by the edge of a breast surface. These two breast surfaces consist each of a single set of ribs and a sternum, or rather a half sternum. That on the right belongs to the right fore limb of the developed twin, and from it arise the pectoral muscles of the said right fore limb and of the neigh- bouring parasitic left fore leg. The other belongs to the left well-formed fore leg, and from it arise the pectoral muscles of that limb and of the neighbouring parasitic right fore limb. The two breast surfaces are completely separated by the narrow quadrilateral space. There is no vestige of another set of ribs on the free (inner) edge of either, and the parasitic fore legs are attached between their upper ends. Some muscles arise out of the adipose tissue between them, one of which seems from its relations to the pectorals to correspond to the latissimus dorsi of the parasitic right fore leg. The relation of the parasitic fore legs to one another is that they adhere by the surfaces that would naturally come together if the body belonging to a pair of legs were suppressed, viz., the inner and posterior. They appear to be a pair belonging to a vertebral column and thorax which would have lain face to face with that of the well-formed animal (the developed twin), but which has disappeared or never been formed. The arrangement of the pectoral