401 THE STRUCTURE OF THE TEETH. 29.29. Teeth in Vertical Section. Hunterian. PP. 20. Part of a lower jaw, the teeth in situ, ground down all round the outer side to give a view of the teeth in vertical section^ showing the disposition and thickness of the enamel and dentine, the size of the pulp cavities, and the relation of the fangs to the bone of the alveolar processes. Dry on blue paper. Some of these teeth correspond to figures in PI. V., figs. 2-19, loc. cit. 29.30. Teeth in Vertical Section. Hunterian. PP. 13. A portion of the lower jaw, the teeth in situ ground on the outside and burned with a red hot iron, showing the amount of the enamel and its disposition relative to the dentine. Dry. 29.31. Teeth in Vertical Section. The Blood-vessels. Hunterian. PP. 27.. '•The whole lower jaw of a young person, periosteum, gums, teeth (deciduous set) m situ, highly injected red, steeped in an acid, divided perpendicularly through the teeth and dried." Mounted in turpentine. The hard parts of the teeth, translucent and avascular, contrast with the highly vascular gums, bone, and periosteum. The pulp is seen in the cavities of several, highly vascular, being the nutrient organ of the tooth. The first per- manent molars are nearly developed, that on the left being- through the gum. Behind are seen the germs of the second molars enclosed in highly vascular sacs. Only the crowns are developed, and their pulps and the thin layer of tissue covering the crowns are both highly vascular. On the left the inferior dental nerve is seen running below the roots of the teeth. 29.32. The Teeth in Vertical Section. Hunterian. PP. 28a. The outer section of one half of a lower jaw treated in the same way as the preceding, but not dried. Mounted in spirit. The gums are beautifully preserved; the inferior dental nerve is seen partly turned out of its canal. 29.33. The Dental Periosteum. Hunterian. PP. 33. "A nearly full-grown incisor, of the second (permanent) set, in the upper jaw, hanging by a slip of elegantly injected