HUNT BRIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 438 body, and introduced into the same stomach, we should then find that the stomach could immediately act upon it. Indeed, if the first were not the case, the stomach itself ought to have been made of indigestible materials; for were not the living principle capable of preserving animal substances from being acted upon by the process of digestion, the stomach itself would be digested; and accordingly we find that the stomach, which at one instant-—that is, while possessed of the living principle—was capable of resisting the digestive powers which it contained, the next moment—viz. when deprived of the living principle—is itself capable of being digested, not only by the digestive powers of other stomachs, but even by the remains of that power which itself had of digesting other things. These observations lead us to account for an appearance which we often find in the stomachs of dead bodies; and they at the same time throw considerable light upon the nature of digestion. The appearance we allude to is a dissolution of the stomach at its great extremity, in conse- quence of which there is frequently a considerable aperture made in that viscus. The edges of this opening appear to be half dissolved, very much like that kind of solution which fleshy parts undergo when half digested in a living stomach, or when acted upon by a caustic alkali, viz. pulpy, tender, and ragged. In these cases the contents of the stomach are generally found loose in the cavity of the abdomen, about the spleen and diaphragm; and in many subjects the influence of this digestive power extends much further than through the stomach. I have often found that, after the stomach had been dissolved at the usual place, its contents let loose had come into contact with the spleen and diaphragm, had dissolved the diaphragm quite through, and had partly afi'ected the adjacent side of the spleen, so that what had been contained in the stomach was found in the cavity of the thorax, and had even affected the lungs to a small degree. There are very few dead bodies in which the stomach at its great end is not in some degree digested; and one who is acquainted with dissections can easily trace these gradations. To be sensible of this effect nothing is more necessary than to compare the inner surface of the great end of the stomach with any other part of its inner surface ; the sound portions will appear soft, spongy, and granulated, and without distinct blood-vessels, opaque and thick; while the others will appear smooth, thin, and more transparent; and the vessels will be seen ramifying in its substance, and upon squeezing the