TUMOURS OF THE TESTICLE. 595 side of the tumour. The diameter of this mass is about 5 cm. A slice has been taken off the right side of the tumour, outside the bladder, and to the naked eye the cut surface looks like ordinary hypertrophied prostate or myoma. The posterior surface of the mass is lobulated and soft like the projection into the bladder. Microscopic examination was rather unsatisfactory from the very much degenerated condition of the tissue. For the most part it suggests myoma, but at the edge of the excrescence in the base of the bladder the tumour tissue is seen infiltrating and destroying the vesical muscular tissue, which may be fairly taken for a proof that it is rather a spindle-celled sarcoma. The cells, where at all recognizable, seem to be long spindles Avith rod-shaped nuclei, like those of unstriated muscle. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 113.) Not described in the old catalogue. 43.60. Chondro-Sarcoma of the Testicle. Hunterian. Y.lla. One half of a greatly enlarged testicle, formerly described as " cancerous." It is of irregular pyriform shape, and slightly lobulated externally. In section it is seen to be composed of inter- lacing fibrous strands, with softer tissue, partly breaking down, between them, and nodules of cartilage scattered about in greater or less abundance in different areas of the tumour; some parts are almost entirely cartilaginous. In microscopic structure it is very complex. A section, from an area containing very little cartilage, shows : (1) Tissue like young granulation tissue; (2) a somewhat similar tissue, but having less fibrous stroma and its cells arranged in masses rather like lymphatic gland tissue; (3) long spindle cells, like unstriated muscular tissue; (4) cartilage, which is highly cellular as if recently formed. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 109.) Figured in Matthew Baillie's Engravings, Fasc. VIII., PI. VIII., fig. 1, and described as a scirrhus of the testicle. 43.61. Carcinomatous and Cartilaginous Tumour of the Testicle. Hunterian. Y. H. A testicle very much enlarged and converted into a tumour, which is composed chiefly of nodules of cartilage, with a varying proportion of softer tissue between them. Nearer the epididymis the softer tissue predominates, and in the epididymis itself, which is greatly enlarged, there is no cartilage visible. Microscopically