HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 820 50.75. Agnatbia. Pig. The head and thorax of a young pig, the lower jaw of which is entirely wanting. The anterior part of the upper jaw to a little way behind the canine teeth is well formed. Behind that the two alveolar processes converge till they almost meet. The pharynx ends in a cul-de-sac. From below, the oesophagus and trachea are pervious to about the middle of the neck. The cranium and upper parts of the face are well formed ; the ears are in the natural position. (C) ANENCEPHALIA, AMYELIA, AND HEMICRANIA (ANENCEPHALIE, EXENOEPHALIE, AND PSEUDENCEPHALIE). 50.76. Complete Anencephalia and Amyelia. Human. From Dr. Allen Thomso7i's Collection. (Anencephale.) A male foetus about the seventh month, with the whole roof of the cranium and vertebral canal wanting. The eyes stand out jjrominently from the head, looking upwards, with a thin supraorbital ridge behind them. The top of the head consists of the flattened-out base of the skull, overlaid by soft membrane, which round the edges is continuous with the skin. In the centre lies a soft flat cyst about 3 cm. in diameter. The membranous area is surrounded by a narrow circlet of hair. The vertebral canal is laid out flat; it is covered by a membrane similar to and continuous with that covering the base of the skull. In it appear the roots of the spinal nerves, rising widely apart and running inwards and downwards to the foramina in the cervical and dorsal regions, and in the lumbar and upper sacral regions forming a regular cauda equina. In other respects the foetus is well formed. 50.77. Anencephalia and Amyelia. Human. Fro7n Dr. Allen Thomson's Collection. (Anencephale.) One half of a similar foetus, divided by sagittal section passing nearly in the median plane. The covering of the base of the skull is a delicate membranous cyst, with a little greyish matter resembling brain substance lining the inside; that of the vertebral canal is purely membranous. The vertebral column joins the base of the skull at a very sharp angle. The face bones, thoracic and abdominal viscera, and the limbs are well formed.