787 DOUBLE MONSTERS. 50.6. Diprosopus Tetrotus. Chick. Huntenan. (Iniodyme.) A chick about the period of hatching, having two heads fused together by the adjacent halves of the occipital bones. The foramina magna are quite distinct, though close together. The atlas is single; its posterior arch is complete, but from immediately below it to the dorsal region there is a condition of complete spina bifida. In front, in the angle between the two heads, are two ears, close together but quite distinct. There are two separate tracheae and oesophagi. The former appear not to unite at all, but run to different lungs ; the latter are not exposed to their terminations. The heart is single. 50.7. Dicephalus. Snake with Two Heads. (Derodyme?.) The two heads and the vertebral columns for a short distance are quite dictinct, and equally well formed. Union by the soft parts commences just behind the heads. Not dissected. 50.8. Dicephalus Diauchenus. Human. Hunterian. (Derodyme.) A female foetus of about six months, with two heads set on a very broad neck, which is bifurcated only at the very top. The duplicity of the cervical vertebrae is distinct for some distance after the soft parts have united. The left head is much smaller than the right; it presents a large posterior hernia cerebri (encephalocele). The right head has a cleft palate and hare-lip. There are two arms, which are equally well developed. Not dissected. 50.9. Dicephalus Diauchenus. Human. Hunterian. (Derodyme.) A full-grown male foetus with two heads, of equal size and well formed, set on two distinct necks. The duplicity of the vertebral columns, to judge by the spinal processes, extends to the lower dorsal region. The thorax in front appears single; a cut has been made into it, through which the heart is seen to be completely single so far as the ventricular portion is concerned, but the arteries rising from the right ventricle go to the right head, and those rising from the left ventricle to the left head. No description in the old catalogue.