692 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 48.91. " A Section of Uterus, with the Placenta partly adhering and partly detached, showing in the Angle the Mode of Adhesion." Hunterkn. Ell. 113. In the angle are seen the stretched fibres of the decidua serotina and the blood-vessels passing from the uterus to the placenta, some partly torn across. The placenta is the portion to the left of the observer. This appearance is described in the description of PI. XXI. of Hunter's Gravid Uterus, as follows: "In this angle, between the womb and the secundines, the artist endeavoured to express what was very apparent in the object, viz., the continuity of the substance of the womb and of the secundines ; in parting which, the tender connecting medium, the decidua, separated into two layers, one of which clung to the womb, and the other to the chorion." 4-8.92. The Placenta. Maternal Arteries and Veins. Hunterian. EE. 96. " A portion of a placenta and its membranes : on the surface which adhered to the uterus may be seen some very small curling arteries injected red, and veins injected black which are going to the cells of the placenta." The black injection is breaking down. 48.93. The Vascularity of the Placenta. The Chorion. Hunterian. EE. 97. " A section of the placenta, highly injected from the navel string ; showing its vascularity; and showing besides, the amnion^ chorion, and decidua." The placental substance in this appears a spongy mass of red-injected blood-vessels; these are the vessels of the chorionic villi, which compose the foetal part of the organ (compare Nos. 48.159, et seq.), and they are so numerous and so finely injected as to appear to constitute the greater part of the villi; compare No. 48.134«. The layer of decidua covering the uterine face of the placenta is uninjected. (Compare No. 48.106 ; nature of the decidua.) The amnion floats partly separated from the inner face of the chorion. The membranous layer of the chorion has been torn from the villous part, which forms the placenta. " By this membrane (the chorion) is here meant that which lies on the outside of and next to the amnion; it is trans- parent like the amnion, but much more thin and tender. It is