PL A CEN TA PR A E VIA. 777 cervical end. The decidua vera, and within it the decidua refiexa, are slit open showing the placenta with the stump of the cord. It is attached to the side of the uterus well down towards the cervix, its lower edge overlapping the os. The neck of the decidua vera is occupied by a mass of soft blood clot. This condition in a later stage of development might have been a placenta praevia. Compare No. 49.73. 49.71. Attachment of the Ovum over the Os Uteri. Hunterian. BR. 219. Decidua containing an ovum, probably not more than eight weeks old, opened, and the anterior lamina turned down showing the globular chorionic sac occupying the lower segment of the uterus. Through the transparent membranes a mass is visible right over the os, which seems to be the developing placenta. Above the chorionic vesicle is seen the characteristic triangular decidua with the orifices of the Fallopian tubes at the corners. 49.72. Implantation of the Ovum over the Os Uteri. Hunterian. EE. —. A section of a similar conception, but considerably younger. Not described in the old catalogue. It appears to correspond to fig. 4 of PI. XXXIV. of Hunter's Gravid litems, but not exactly. Probably this is the other half of the conception, and that from which the plate was made has been lost. It is described (under fig. 3) as "supposed to be of the fourth week." The villi are visible all over the chorion, but seem to be more developed on the upper surface, i.e. away from the os. The globular ovum occupies the lower third of the decidua; the upper parts present the usual triangular shape, the angles corresponding to the entrances of the Fallopian tubes. 49.73. Placenta Praevia. Hunterian. EE. 121. "A section of an uterus, with placenta detached from the os tincae, to which it had adhered; it had probably been separated by the dilatation of cervix and os uteri during labour, occasioning a rupture of vessels and haemorrhage, which is frequently, and was most likely in this case, fatal." Shows what would probably have been the result in the three preceding cases, had they been retained