636 HUNTER!AN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. were taking place mostly round the edges. The pelvis of the kidney is considerably dilated, and the renal tissue has, to a very large extent, atrophied. The organ, though not much altered from the normal in size and shape, is converted into a multilocular cyst with thin walls, the number and situation of the loculi corresponding with the position of the calyces, as is seen better in the specimens which are laid open. The calculus is very soft, rotten with long immersion in spirit, and consists chiefly of uric acid, with a shell of calcium oxalate. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 128. Matthew Baillie's Engravings, Fasc. VI., PI. V., fig. 2.) 41.15. Kidney with Double Pelvis and Single Ureter. Large Calculus in the Lower Pelvis, with Pro- jection into the Upper. Complete Atrophy with Hydronephrosis of the Lower Part of the Kidney. Slight Hydronephrosis of the Upper Part. Hunterian. X. 104. The kidney showing the above peculiarities is about the normal size, and the difference between the upper and lower parts is very striking. The lower part, with its pelvis, is converted into a thin- walled loculated cyst, with no trace of renal tissue remaining. The upper, from the outside, appears normal, but its pelvis is considerably dilated, and its cavity can be felt to be enlarged, but it is surrounded by a considerable thickness of renal tissue. The upper pelvis is very long, and passes down, curving round the lower end of the lower one, which thus comes to open into it from above. The ureter appears to be a direct continuation of the upper pelvis. There is a large stone filling the lower part of the lower pelvis (the greatly dilated one) and impacted in the narrow orifice leading into the upper pelvis. It is united at about right angles, by a narrow neck, to a small elongated calculus, which lies in the lower part of the upper pelvis, projecting into the ureter, and completely blocking it. The calculi are composed of calcium oxalate, and are coated with brown organic debris. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 128.) 41.16. Renal Calculus. Complete Atrophy of the Kidney. Large Hydronephrosis. Hunterian. X. 87a. A kidney greatly dilated, and converted into a thin-walled locu- lated cyst. The pelvis of the kidney is occupied by a large white