437 POST-MORTEM DIGESTION OF THE STOMACH. slightly eroded. The cuticular lining of the oesophagus is seen very distinctly ending just within the cardiac orifice. 34.7. The Stomach of a Dog "supposed to be poisoned by Arsenic." Hunterian. 0. bOd. The stomach of a dog, inverted, showing the mucous membrane of a dark colour. The former catalogue states that " the inflam- mation is the most general ever seen, the whole looks black, the blood having been coagulated by distilled vinegar; there is, how- ever, no erosion ; the dog died suddenly." (c) Post-mortem Digestion of the Stomach. 34.8. Post-mortem Digestion of the Stomach. Hwderian. 0. i2h. " A portion (pyloric half) of the stomach (inverted) from a woman who died of peritoneal inflammation; the great end of the stomach was reduced almost to a jelly by the powers of the gastric juice; the digestive powers continuing so strong, shows that this disease is an inflammation, and not fever." The true nature of this condition, which is frequently met with in post- mortem examinations, especially in subjects who have died suddenly with the functions of the stomach active, was first pointed out by John Hunter in 1772, in a paper, " On the digestion of the stomach after death," published first in Vol. LXII. of Phil. Trans. (1773), and subsequently in the volume of Observa- tions on the Animal Oeconomy, Palmer's Ed., Vol. IV., p. 116. The following is a quotation from that paper: "Animals, or parts of animals, possessed of the living principle, when taken into the stomach, are not in the least aff'ected by the powers of the viscus so long as the animal principle remains. Hence it is that we find animals of various kinds not only can live in the stomach, but ai'e even hatched and bred there ; yet the moment that any of these lose the living principle, they become subject to the digestive powers of the stomach. If it were possible for a man's hand, for example, to be introduced into the stomach of a living animal, and kept there for some considerable time, it would be found that the dissolvent powers of the stomach would have no effect upon it; but if the same hand were separated from the