MYOMA OF THE UTERUS. 627 45.45. Large Myoma of the Uterus. Subserous; Pedun- culated. Hunterian. GC. 44. "A very uncommon specimen of disease, not only from size, but from situation. The uterus appears perfectly healthy at the cervix, and the Fallopian tubes and ovaria are in their natural state; there arises from the fundus uteri an uncommonly large scirrhous substance, consisting of two irregularly rounded masses joined together by a narrow neck, and feeling almost like the substance of the gravid uterus; the smaller of these rounded masses is next the uterus; the larger is at a greater distance, and must have occupied a great part of the abdomen; there is a section through the whole mass, exhibiting the true scirrhous appearance ; the largest mass is about twenty-one inches round, and the whole weighing five pounds six ounces." The smaller mass seems to be the fundus uteri converted into a mass of myomata, and the larger is a huge myoma. 45.46. Myomata of Uterus. Hunterian. CC. 112. "Not described in Hunterian MSS." One half of uterus greatly enlarged and irregular from the presence of numerous myomata, which are mostly interstitial. The enlargement affects almost wholly the fundus ; it is fairly even on all sides of the cavity, which is distorted and considerably increased in length (measuring 15 cm.) and in width. Of the 15 cm. only 3 cm. is cervical cavity. Several pedunculated myomata project externally. DEGENERATIVE CHANGES IN UTERINE MYOMATA. 45.47. Calcification of Uterine Myoma. Hunterian. CC. 57b. Uterus laid open, showing a myoma about the size of a walnut, split and the two parts turned aside. Shows a slight degree of calcification, which takes the form of yellow stony nodules scattered through its central parts. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 119.) 45.48. Calcification of Uterine Myoma. Hunterian. CC. 57c. " The uterus opened, from a woman in Charles Street, whose cystic duct is described as ulcerated from a gall stone, as large as a walnut, and falling into the abdomen. (Vide No. 58. U, now No. 38. 22.) Cavity of the uterus considerably enlarged, and a