854 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. Model 1. Shows the stage of a simple (single) tubular heart after coalescence of the two primitive vascular tubes has become complete. The lower end shows the roots of the two omphalo- meseraic (omphalo-mesenteric) veins, the upper the two first aortic (branchial) arches rising from the conus anteriosus; the inter- mediate part with the two bends is the heart. Model 2. The heart is still in the condition of a single tube with the roots of vessels as in the preceding. It can be seen to consist of four parts: (1) The arterial part—bulbus or conus arteriosus—which is longer than in the preceding; (2) ventricular part below it, formed from the region of the upper bend in model No. 1 ; (3) auricular portion, formed from the region of the lower bend in the preceding, but which, by the doubling of the tube on itself, is now above the ventricular part. (In this region there is a widening of the tube, for the explanation of which see next specimen); (4) venous part or sinus venosus, formed by the junction of the two omphalo-meseraic veins, which open into the auricular portion. Model 3. The stage of bending of the tube has now reached completion, and that of differentiation into an organ with right and left sets of cavities has begun. The widening of the lower bend (now become the upper or base of the heart) has increased, and a groove has appeared, dividing it into two portions which become the two auricles. The ventricle below them appears still single. The conus arteriosus has increased in length; its branches, the branchial arteries, are not shown. The sinus venosus is as in the preceding. Model 4. The heart of a human embryo, 5 lines in length. (Ecker, Loc. cit., Table XXX., figs. 18 and 19.) The auricles (or, strictly, the appendices of the auricles) are now quite distinct; they occupy the upper part (base of the heart), and are growing round the conus arteriosus in the manner in which they encircle the great vessels in the adult heart. The root only of the sinus venosus is shown, and it appears single. The conus arteriosus, still single, is distinctly defined from the ventricle, which now gives indication externally of approaching distinction of the right and left cavities. Model 5. The heart of a human embryo, 7 lines in length. (Ecker, Loc. cit., Table XXX., fig. 20.) The condition is much the