831 SINGLE MONSTERS. right between the shoulders, and there is no neck. The thorax is pushed forwards, and the buttocks turned up by bending forward of the dorsal region of the vertebral column. The hollow in the back is filled up by a loose rounded sac considerably larger than the head, directed considerably to the left, and covering the whole breadth of the back and part of the left side down to the lumbar region. It is covered with skin, which is very thin and had ruptured over the apex. On enlarging the hole the sac is found to be lined by a thin firm membrane, apparently dura mater. Inside it is seen a second sac, not much smaller, and composed of membrane similar in appear- ance and texture. On opening this the right cerebral hemisphere and right lobe of cerebellum were found, lying almost in the middle line. To the left was felt the other half of the brain, the relative position of the two halves being much the same as that described in the preceding specimen. The inner sac seems to be arachnoid and pia mater somewhat thickened. The outer sac is a large meningo- cele. The cranium is deficient behind, the vertebral canal completely open down to about the upper lumbar region, and the brain displaced entirely out of the cranium into the dorsal region. The character- istics of the monster seem to be intermediate between the exencephale and notencephale of I. Geoflfroy St. Hilaire. The monster has also a double harelip, and in the angle between the meningocele and the shoulder on either side there is a little thin walled cyst. 50.106. Extreme Retroflexion of Head and Body with Lumbar Meningocele. Human. — A male foetus of about seven months, presenting a condition apparently allied to the preceding. The cranium is well formed, very high in the vault, and there is such a degree of retroflexion of the head that it lies fairly between the shoulders. The vertebral column being at the same time bent strongly forward, the occiput actually rests on the sacrum. In the angle between the occiput and the right buttock projects a meningocele, about the size of a tangerine orange (5 cm. in diameter). The specimen is not dissected. In the extreme degree of retroflexion this monster resembles closely the two preceding, and the meningocele indicates an unclosed vertebral canal; but, instead of a small collapsed cranial cavity, and the brain lying in the meningocele, the cranium has been carried a little further back than in the two preceding, and still encloses it. The cerebro-spinal axis is extremely short, quite as