HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 898 SECTION I. Calculi consisting principally of Uric Acid. Uric acid, either pure or in tlie form of urates, enters into the •composition of a very large jJroportion of urinary calculi. It consti- tutes the principal part of 76 out of the 175 specimens in the collection, which are accordingly classified as uric acid calculi. It is also the princijjal ingredient of other fourteen which have been classified as ammonium urate calculi; it certainly appears, either in the form of uric acid or urate of ammonium, in 52 others, and probably is present in a considerable number of those which from being uncut cannot be properly examined. The uric acid calculi vary very much in size, from the small particles called uric acid gravel upwards, the largest in the collection being larger than an emu's egg, and weighing If pounds. When they are of any size they are usually of oval shape ; they are pale grayish-yellow, yellowish-brown, or reddish-brown in colour ; smooth or slightly rough externally, and as a rule very hard. The uric acid is deposited in two different formations : (1) in fine dense concentric laminae, (2) in crystalline granules more or less closely agglutinated together; many calculi show both forms. Before the blowpipe the uric acid calculus burns away, leaving no residue if composed of pure uric acid, if impure a small mineral ash due to the presence of urates or phosphates of the alkaline earths or calcium oxalate. Heated with nitric acid it melts with effervescence, and on cautiously drying leaves a beautiful pink or red deposit, which turns purple on addition of ammonia—the murexide reaction. For the tests for the other ingredients, see under ammonium urate calculi, etc. No attempt was made to estimate the amount of the urates or other mattei's mixed with the uric acid. (a) Calculi consisting of Uric Acid Practically Pure. 53.1. Uric Acid Calculus. Uunterian. An oval calculus of fairly large size (5-6 by 4-7 cm.), rather greater than a hen's egg, composed c.f practically pure uric acid; divided. It is of light brown colour throughout. The central part is formed in coarse granules, the outer parts in dense fine laminae. Its exterior is rough. Before the blowpipe the outer parts burn up entirely; the inner leaves only an extremely minute mineral ash.