DEVELOPMENT OF THE HUMAN OVUM. 795 5 cm. in diameter, but the placenta is more developed and the the insertion of the umbilical cord on the placenta. In the centre the foetus hangs by fully 1 cm. of well formed umbilical cord. It is 2 cm. long; the head and body are about equal in size, the cavities of thorax and abdomen completely closed, the mouth and external ears well formed, and tlie eyes on the front of the head. The limbs are free from the body quite to the middle of the thighs and upper arms, the thumb distinct from the fingers, and all the joints of the fingers distinguishable. There are two or three coils of intestine in the beginning of the umbilical cord, on the side of one of which the thread-like pedicle of the umbilical vesicle appears to terminate. This specimen is (so far as can now be ascertained) that which appears as fig. 124 in Quain's Anatomij, tenth edition, section Embryology, where it is described after Allen Thomson as an embryo in the tenth week. The figure first appeared in the seventh edition. Vol. II., fig. 603«. 48.171. Human Ovum. Villi of the Chorion. Htinterian. EE. 209. An ovum, unopened, of much larger size than the preceding, but in a different condition of development. The chorion is much more sparsely covered with villi, which are unusually fine and thread-like. They are much more numerous over one area than over the rest. The embryo cannot be detected. Possibly it was absent and there was a degree of atrophy of the villi, which would account for their fineness. 48.172. Human Ovum. Changes in the Chorion. Huntcrian. EE. 210. A considerably larger ovum, unopened, with a foetus of fully 2 cm. length inside it, showing the chorion almost smooth on one side from atrophy of the villi, Avhile on the other they are hyper- trophied to take their part in the formation of the placenta. A piece of decidua is attached by the tips of the villi to the outside of the chorion. 48.173. Human Ovum about Ten Weeks Old. Forma- tion of the Placenta. Himterian. EE. 211. The conception is similar to the preceding in size, measuring