EMBRYOLOGY. DEVELOPMENT OF THE BRAIN. 851 is much larger than in the preceding; there is a second frontal sulcus; the posterior end of the calloso-marginal fissure of the median surface is noticed as a deep notch a little posterior to the upper end of the fissure of Rolando. Model 10. Left half of the same, showing the median surface. Shows the same fissures as No. 8, but more distinctly. Model 11. The brain of a foetus at the eighth month (32 weeks). {Loc. cit., Plate III., figs. 1, 2, 4, 6.) The complexity of the convolu- tions has increased considerably, but the main fissures and sulci seen in the preceding models are readily traceable. Model 12. Left half of the same {Ihid., fig. 5), showing the median surface; the fissures seen in the earlier models readily traceable. Model 13. Brain of a foetus in the ninth month (36 Aveeks). {Loc. cit., Plate IV., figs. 1 to 4.) Similar to No. 11, but more complex, from the appearance of numerous minor sulci. Model 14. Left half of the same, showing the median surface. Similar to though more convoluted than No. 12. 51.21. The Convolutions of the Adult Human Brain. (After Ecker.) From Dr. Allen Thomson's Collection. Tiuo Wax Models to illustrate the Work of Professor Ecker. Die Hirnidndungen des Menschen nach eignen UntersucJmngen, insbeson- dere iiber die Entioickelung derselhen heim Fdtiis, Braunschweig, 1869 (The Convolutions of the Brain of Man, especially their Development in the Foetus). Model 1. Model of the cerebrum of the adult. The fissures and convolutions are indicated by letters on the left half, as follows: Ant.Syl. Anterior limb of Sylvian Fissure. Post.Syl. Posterior Limb of Sylvian Fissure. Ro. Fissure of Eolando. CM. Calloso-marginal Fissure (upper end). P.O. Parieto-occipital Fissure. Fr.sup., Fr.m., Fr.i, Fr.asc. Superior, Middle, Inferior, and Ascending Frontal Convolutions. Asc.par., S.par. Ascending and Superior Parietal Convolutions. Ang. angular, and S.M. Supra- marginal Convolutions. T.S. 1 and T.S. 2. First and Second Temporo-sphenoidal Convolutions. Oc. 1 and Oc. 3. First and Third Occipital Convolutions.