THE DESCENT OF THE TESTICLES. 559 42.58. Position of the Testicles in a "Foetus of 4 or 5 Months." Hunterian. Y. 53. The head and the anterior parietes of the foetus have been removed. The intestines are raised up showing the testicles lying in the abdomen in the inner parts of the iliac fossae, " the size of very small peas." 42.59. Position of the Testicles in a Seven-Month Foetus. Hunterian. Y. 54. The lower part of the trunk of a foetus, the anterior parietes, liver, spleen, and all of the alimentarj' canal but the rectum removed, showing the testicles lying close to the lower ends of the kidneys, the right covered with peritoneum and hanging into the peritoneal cavity by a fold called the mesorchium, analogous to the mesentery. The epididymis is seen to its outer side. The peritoneum has been dissected away to the left, without disturbing the position of the testicle, to show more clearly its relations and the vessels passing to it round the lower end of the kidney. 42.60. The Gubernaculum Testis of John Hunter in a Foetus of Seven Months. Hunterian. Y. 55. The lower part of the trunk of a foetus, cut across the middle of the kidneys and all the bones carefully removed from behind to allow the preparation to be mounted flatter. Injected red by the arteries; the rectum, "distended with meconium," ligatured and cut short and the bladder opened. This is the specimen from which Plate I. in the Medical Commentaries was taken. The description and the outline diagram are therefore reproduced in full. The specimen was exceedingl}' dirty, and has not the clearness and colouring which it originally had; it and the description and diagram should be compared with the succeeding specimen, which, having been more completely dissected and better preserved, shows a number of points which are not now clearly visible in the original, indeed it appears not improbable that the right side of the plate was drawn from the latter. The original description by John Hunter is as follows: "The first figure represents the testes within the abdomen, in an abortive foetus of about six months. All the intestines, except the rectum, are removed; and the peritoneum in most places is left upon the