497 CARCINOMA OF THE RECTUM. 36.114. Carcinoma of the Rectum involving the Neck of the Bladder. Hunterian. li. 56. The specimen consists of the rectum and part of the bladder, and its appearance is rather spoilt by the former having been split open behind and straightened, in which the bowel has been torn at the upper edge of the ulcer. The tumour appears internally as a ragged ulcer, with very prominent hard edges forming a ring right round the bowel. It is firmly adherent to the neck of the bladder, but does not appear in it. It begins about 7 cm. within the anus, and extends about 5 cm. up into the sigmoid flexure; it presents the structure of a cylinder-celled carcinoma. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 88.) "Came on with tenesmus: continued two years and killed the patient, not with very great pain, but teasing as it were : towards the end he became leucophlegmatic (general dropsy), and had water in chest and abdomen; used cicuta in vain. (Case, Mr. Cruikshank's patient Faulkner.) " 36.115. Carcinoma of the Rectum. Tight Stricture with Dilatation of the Bowel above it. Hunterian. R. 58. The tumour, which has not been divided, is small and dense, extending round the bowel, and narrowing it as a whole very considerably; a quill passed through the stricture is tightly gripped. The dilated bowel above is kept open by a quill, with formerly a ring of copper wire, but this was reduced to a mass of green salt, and has been removed; it has stained the specimen green. Structure : cylinder-celled carcinoma. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 89. Matthew Baillie's Engravings, Fasc. IV., PI. IV., fig. 2.) 36.116. Carcinoma of the Rectum. Perforations into Vagina and Cavity of Pelvis. Hunterian. R. 31a. " The rectum of the woman who had the foetus in her ovarium, exceedingly ulcerated; two fistulous openings from vagina into rectum are seen; two orifices are also seen leading from the rectum into the cavity of the pelvis, so that faeces either passed or would soon have passed that way." A large ulcer of the rectum, beginning about 2 cm. within the anus, extends up it all round