809 AGARDIAC MONSTERS. resembles somewhat a pig's skin. There appears to be no heart, lungs, diaphragm, or liver, but the whole cavity seems filled with intestines only; the left foot has only four toes." There are two sets of ribs and a vertebral column forming a rudimentary thorax. The vertebral column ends in a pointed process just above the ribs. No trace of a head. The feet are both in the position of talipes varus. The urinary organs seem well developed. The internal genitals are present, but very small; the external are well formed. It is a female. 50.46. Acephalic Acardiac Monstrosity. Human. Hunterian. MM. 57. (Peracephale.) "A monster very much resembling the former; there seems no head nor arms; there is one general cavity of thorax and abdomen undistinguished by diaphragm, in which there is no heart, lungs, etc. Its system of vessels is injected; and consists of one vessel which, as soon as it has perforated the navel, divides itself into four branches, two of which go to the upper part and two to the lower extremities, and another vessel running along the spine; these had carried on the circulation by their own powers of contraction during the whole period of utero-gestation, for the child seems to have been born at its full time." The last statement, about the circulation, is undoubtedly erroneous. In Hunter's time the nature of these monstrosities, and their necessary relation to a well-developed twin, was not known. (Vide Intro- duction to Section, Acardiac Monsters.) The feet are similar to those of the preceding. There are the external genitals of the female. There seem to be no internal genitals. 50.47. Drawing of the Vascular System in Preparation No. 50.46. Hunterian. MM. 57a. 50.48. Acephalic Acardiac Monstrosity. Human, From Dr. Allen Thomson's Collection. (Mylacephale.) A monstrosity without head or arms, very like the preceding. Its upper part has been split. On pressing the two halves apart, the trunk is seen to be largely composed of fleshy sub-