396 HUNT BRIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 29.2. The Roof of the Mouth, the Gums, Alveolar Pro- cesses, and Upper Teeth. Hunterian. GG. 21. The above injected red, showing the shape and vascularity of the hard and soft palate, uvula and gums, and a very fine set of upper teeth, all belonging to the permanent set, but only back to the first molars ; the second molars and wisdom teeth were still to come. 29.3. The Roof of the Mouth, the Gums, Teeth, and Lips. Htonterian. GG. 22. Similar to the preceding, but with the lips not removed, showing, in addition to the points seen in the former, the vascularity of the lips, and the fine and highly sensitive papillae with which they are covered. A lens is required for the proper examination of this specimen. All but one of the deciduous incisors, the deciduous canines, and second molars are present. The permanent teeth, of which one incisor, two first bicuspids, and the first molars are present, are readily distinguishable by their greater size. 29. 4. The Teeth and Gums. Hunterian. PP. 26. " One half of the lower jaw from a young person, periosteum, gums, and teeth in situ, showing more fully the fringed villous border of the gums and their superior vascularity." A lens is required for the proper examination of this specimen. Several of the teeth were already carious just above the edge of the gum and on the top. The wisdom teeth were on the point of erupting. 29.5. The Permanent Teeth. Hunterian. PP. 2. A beautiful view of the teeth with their roots in the upper jaw, the alveolar processes having been dissected away to show their size, shape, and j^osition relative to the jaw. The right wisdom and left wisdom and second molar of the lower jaw are wanting; other- wise the set is perfect. Dry. 29.6. The Permanent Teeth. Hunterian. PP. 82. The upper and lower jaw with a complete set of teeth in a perfect state of preservation, the alveolar processes dissected away on the left side, as in the preceding; showing their size, shape, and