IIUNTEKIAN ANATOMICAL GATALOUUE. 876 " These concretions are irregular in form and size. They are frequently as large as the fist, and of a dirty white or light brown colour. Their external surface is smooth, and they are exceedingly light. When divided they are found to consist of concentric layers of a fibrous substance closely felted together, having a velvety feel, between which are often to be observed thin white layers consisting of the earthy phosphates. A piece of bone, a plum- or cherry-stone usually constitutes their nucleus. "Dr. Monro, whose father has made a large collection of those calculi, has given an elaborate history of them in his Morbid Anatomy of the Gullet. We are informed by him that they were considered by Morgagni as similar in composition to biliary con- cretions, while others, as Van Swieten, Richerand and Callisen, were of opinion that they consisted simply of indurated faeces. These calculi were analyzed by Cadet without success, and also by Dr. Thomson, who detected in them small quantities of various saline and earthy substances, but was unable to determine the nature of the vegetable matter which constituted the bulk of the calculus and gave to it its peculiar characters. Their composition remained unexplained until one of the concretions was shown to Dr. WoUaston, who ' found the velvety substance to consist of extremely minute vegetable fibres or short needles pointed at both ends, which he immediately conjectured to arise from some kind of food peculiar to Scotland.' For some time, however, he failed in his attempts to trace this substance to its origin. But the ingenious Mr. Clift, of the College of Surgeons, to whom the subject was mentioned in conversation, having put the question whether this fibrous substance might not proceed from oats, Dr. Wollaston was induced to examine the structure of this seed, and the result fully verified Mr. Cliffs conjecture. If the oat-seed be denuded of its husk, minute needles or beards forming a small brush are seen planted at one of its ends. Dr. Wollaston, on examining these and comparing them with similar ones detached from the calculi and forming the velvety substance in question, satisfied himself of their perfect identity." {Catalogue of Calculi, R.C.S., Eng., p. 193.) Portions of the paleae and husks of the oat and other vegetable fibres are also found in these concretions. " The small hairs which cover the surface of most plants occasionally become felted together in the alimentary canal of herbivorous animals, and form concretions similar in most respects to those already described as occurring in the human subject."