EMBRYOLOGY. DEVELOPMENT OF THE BRAIN. 849 dibular arch; at the corners of this are the maxillary processes. Below the mandibular arch the branchial arches and clefts are distinct. The eyes are on the sides of the head ; the lachrymal clefts between the orbits and the buccal cavity are open. In No. 2 the branchial (visceral) clefts are nearly obliterated; at the ends of the first and second are little pits, the upper of which (otic pit) represents the external auditory meatus. The buccal cavity is much larger, and the tongue occupies its floor behind the mandible. The maxillary process has grown forwards, and the frontal processes downwards; on the latter are seen the nasal pits close to the lachrymal clefts. In No. 3 the eyes have come round on to the front of the head ; the median parts of the nasal processes have developed greatly; the nasal pits are now clefts communicating with the mouth and with the lachrymal clefts, which are now only grooves. There is still a trace of the first branchial (visceral) cleft. The otic pit at the outer end of this cleft has risen up to about the level of the top of the mandibular process. In No. 4 the various clefts of the face are closed, but still indicated by grooves. The deep part of the lachrymal groove by this stage has been converted into lachrymal duct; the superficial has been obliterated altogether. The point of the nose projects ; the intermaxillary process and upper lip are formed; the appearance of the face is approximately that of the adult. 51.20. The Development of the Convolutions of the Human Brain from the Second to the Ninth Month of Pregnancy. (After Ecker.) From Dr. Allen Thomson's Collection. Illustrating Ecker's paper, Zur Entwiclcelungsgeschkhte der Furchen unci Windungen der Grosshirn Hemisphdren im Fdtus des Menschen in Archiv fur Anthropologie, Bd. Ill, 1868 (History of Development of the Fissures and Convolutions of the Hemi- spheres of the Cerebrum in the Foetus of Man). Also the Convolutions of the Human Brain, by Ecker, tr. by John C. Galton, London, 1873. Model 1. The brain of a foetus at the twelfth week. {Log. cit., Plate L, figs. 1, 2, 3, 5.) Shows that it already has the shape of the adult brain. The hemispheres are quite smooth, except for the