690 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. and clear it of all coagula, either upon its surface or in the venal orifices, and the whole will be almost without blood." The umbilical vascular system may then be injected either from the artery or vein of the cord; and " if the placenta be whole in all its substance, which is seldom the case, and its blood-vessels be pretty well emptied of their blood, any subtile injection thrown into the artery will fill the arterial system throughout the whole substance of the part to an amazing degree of minuteness, and return so freely by the veins as to fill them very generally and equally. In the same manner the whole umbilical system may be filled by injecting the vein, the fluid returning from the veins into the arteries. In both these experiments the injected fluid is confined to the umbilical vascular system, none escaping at the external surface of the placenta, neither by large nor small orifices whether of veins or arteries." 48.85. The Placenta at Full Time. The Decidua. Hunterian. RR. 86. " Placenta with part of umbilical cord, injected also with yolks of eggs; the vessels thence more rounded and full; the arteries red, the veins green from verdigris." This specimen is an example of the insertion of the cord near one edge of the placenta, an abnor- mality called "battledore placenta." 4-8.86. A Placenta injected red and mounted in Tur- pentine. Hunterian. RR. 87. At one side it is cut, and in the section the fine red injected foetal vessels can be traced almost to the outer surface. Almost all over this surface there is a thin layer of decidua, of varying thickness, having a clear horny appearance due to the mode of preparation. This layer is clearly not injected. Only where it has been torn ofi" are the injected vessels of the foetal villi visible in the outer surface of the placenta. See description of No. 48.106. 48.87. A Placenta, of which both the Arteries and Veins are injected with Mercury. Hunterian. RR. 87a. In a flat dish. Some of the vessels now empty and collapsed. The cord lies by the side of the placenta. (Not described.)