877 OAT SEED CONCRETIONS. "These concretions do not possess a,ny regular appearance or strncture ; some are nothing more than a mass of vegetable, earthy matter, etc., confusedly aggregated together, while others possess a laminated structure, and have a soft velvety feel. In addition to the vegetable hairs, of which the bulk of the concretion usually consists, portions of cellular tissue, woody fibre, and spiral vessels are to be found mixed with gum, resin, and an extractive matter resembling ulmic acid, together with various saline and earthy salts, sand, and the hairs of the animal. They also contain variable quantities of more or less altered bile, which appears to have been absorbed by the concretion and become decomposed." " In the horse these concretions usually occur in the caecum and colon. They frequently contain large quantities of phosphate of lime and magnesia, with undigested food, etc., and are termed by farriers dung-balls. Horses not uncommonly suflfer from the presence of these concretions, and they sometimes produce rupture of the intestines." (From the Catalof/ue of the Calculi in the Royal College of Surgeons of England, pp. 193-10.5, and p. 221.) 52.71. Oat Seed Concretion. Hunterian. A concretion which on microscopic examination was found to consist of minute vegetable hairs, in appearance identical with the setae of the oat seed described in the introduction. The calculus is of oval shape, measuring 7 by 5 cm.; of light brown colour, smooth and velvety to the touch, fairly light for its size, and to the eye ■composed of very closely felted fine hairs. It is divided transversely. The cut surface for the most part presents identical characters. There is one narrow ring of earthy matter, and the centre is a large fruit stone, like that of a peach. 52.72. Oat Seed Concretions. Hunterian. Two cube-shaped concretions of similar characters and composition, uncut. They are very light. Measure '6-2 to 3-5 cm. on the sides— almost a fair cube. 52.73. Oat Seed Concretion. Hunterian. A similar calculus, cut. There is a little bunch of coarser fibres ■which seems to form the nucleus. Beside this a small cavity. Very light.