CARCINOMA OF THE STOMACH. 445 34.29. Carcinoma of the Pylorus. Stricture. Hunterian. 0. 4:2tj. The pyloric end of a stomach slit open and laid flat, showing a tumour forming a mass of considerable size just within the pylorus. It extends all round, but is thickest on one side. The mucous surface appears hypertrophied and velvety, not ulcerated. Part of the duodenum is present, and shows the tumour ceasing abruptly at the edge of the pylorus. Its external extension has involved the duodenum a little further down, but does not appear inside it. Microscopic structure—a highly cellular carcinoma. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 17.) 34.30. Carcinoma of the Pylorus. Sloughing. Hunterian. 0. dia. " Pylorus, with a portion of the small end of the stomach become one large cancerous ulcer, ragged, thick, and bloody; from a patient at Chelsea who had perpetual vomitings and purgings." The tumour, which has been slit open on one side, forms a bulky mass, which must have been about 8 cm. in diameter, just within the pylorus and extending about 6 cm. up the stomach. The duodenum is dilated, but otherwise unaffected by the tumour, which does not pass beyond the pylorus, though it has nearly destroyed it. On restoring the tumour to the natural position the pyloric orifice is seen to be obstructed, but not com- pletely, the sloughing probably preventing a complete stoppage. Microscopically it is a highly cellular carcinoma, with a fairly well developed fibrous stroma. (MS. Notes, .T.H.T., p. 23.) Matthew Baillie's Engravings, Fasc. III., PI. VI., fig. 3: "Cancer of the stomach or scirrhus advanced to suppuration." 34.31. Carcinoma of the Pylorus. Ulcerating. Hurderian. 0. 56. The lesser end of the stomach, and part of the duodenum, slit open, showing "ulceration of the pylorus; it extends but a little way into the stomach itself, and not at all into the duodenum." Resting on the duodenum is an enlarged secondarily affected gland. On microscopic examination it is found to be a highly cellular carcinoma. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 28.) Matthew Baillie's Engravings, Fasc. III., PI. V., fig. 3: "Ulcers of the stomach."