INTUSS USCEPTION. 479 in length respectively. The shorter is a tube of mucous membrane, with traces of the circular and of one of the longitudinal bands of muscle, and the attachment of the mysentery, the mucous membrane turned inwards. The longer is an inverted tube of gut with the mucous membrane outwards; a good deal torn. They are now tied together at the upper end, but seem to have been continuous with one another. They are so altered that it is difficult to determine exactly how much of the bowel they represent; clearly there is a great deal more than mucous membrane, probably, in the one part at least, the whole thickness. The history of the obtained from William Hunter's lectures, is as follows : A publican in Piccadilly, after very severe exertion, by which he thought he hurt himself, began to be troubled with "complaints in his bowels, and fits of purging from time to time." At length, in a fit of purging attended with much pain, he passed what seemed to Dr. Hunter to be " about a foot of the whole substance of the intestine coming away " in a very putrid condition. Next day more sloughs were passed, but in a very ragged condition. Patient recovered, for the time being, but ever after was troubled with frequent "colic complaints," the pain being in the left side of the abdomen. At no time, during the whole illness, was there the least obstruction of stools. He died, as was stated in the printed catalogue, two years after, and on examination it was found " that the colon, instead of making a transverse turn from the right to the left kidney, turned down from the right kidney, obliquely across the abdomen, to the left groin or sigmoid flexure, so that it would seem that a great piece of the gut had come away, and at the sigmoid flexure the inside of the gut was diseased." {Lectures, MS. R.C.S.Eng., 42, c. 29, p 587.) 36.37. Slough of the Large Intestine, passed per Rectum. Case of Chronic Intussusception. Hunterian. B. 45. The sloughs which were passed the day after the preceding- specimen, which see. It is a very ragged mass, measuring, as it hangs, about 23 cm. in length, composed of mucous membrane and other tissue. The mucous membrane is inwards, and is easily recognizable, being less altered than anything else.