DISEASES OF THE CHORION. 765 1897, after twelve hours labour, she passed the specimen sent." The conception was believed to date from after the renewal of intercourse. The main mass consists of the sac of the decidua reflexa and serotina, which is clearly recognizable over the greater part of one side and part of one end. This mass is of elongated oval shape, slightly flattened from side to side; it measures 10 by 5 by about 3 cm. From the outside of the placental part hang one large and a number of small hydatids. At the cervical extremity the decidua is torn, and a hernia of the chorion and amnion as large as a walnut (35 by 30 by 30 mm.) projects through the rent. One side of this is covered with a thin layer of decidua. The sac contains a considerable mass of blood clot enclosed between amnion and chorion. On dividing the mis- carriage longitudinally (after hardening in spirit), the main mass was found to be almost solid; consisting of placenta (which was largely composed of hydatids) and blood clot. Scarcely any cavity remained, the fluid contents of the chorion and amnion having been squeezed out into the above mentioned hernia. There is a great deal of blood clot, which in the upper part of the speci- men lies between the chorion and the decidua and in the substance of the placenta. In the lower protruded part it distinctly lies between the chorion and the amnion. There was no trace of a foetus. The flattened cavity of the ovum is propped open with fine glass rods. The absence of the foetus probably favoured the extrusion of the foetal membranes without rupture by the gradual growth of the degenerating placenta. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 145.) 4-9.18. Hydatidiform Degeneration of the Chorion, Hunterian. RR. 382. A considerable mass of vesicles and fleshy tissue, similar to No. 49.15. The inner surface, as in the preceding specimens, is covered with smooth membranous chorion. Some of the vesicles are very large. 4-9.19. Hydatidiform Degeneration of the Chorion. Hunterian. RR. 383. Similar to the preceding but smaller, and the vesicles smaller and more, like " white currants," as commonly described.