803 DOUBLE MONSTERS. edges fused to a slight degree (synotia). Formerly described as " two pigs strangely jumbled, the posterior parts of the heads are together and of the chest, but the anterior parts of the abdomen : one of the heads has but one eye." The thoracic cavity is laid open from both sides, showing the viscera as in No. 50.35—two distinct hearts; four lungs; liver double, consisting of two halves placed laterally in the compound thorax, but united across the sagittal plane; alimentary canal single down to the point at which the vitelline duct joins the small intestine, below that point double. Pelvic organs all double and well formed. Female. 50.39. Prosopo-thoracopagus. Calf. From Dr. Allen Thomson's Collection. (Hemipage.) A double monstrosity of the calf, about 25 cm. (10 inches) long. The two animals lie face to face united by their anterior surfaces in the same way as in the preceding. Their sagittal planes are slightly oblique to one another, so that the heads are inclined a little towards opposite sides. There is also a marked lateral curvature of the spines in the dorsal region, which produces an unsymmetrical appearance about the thorax. The bodies are separ- ate below the umbilicus; above it they are fused by each anterior edge of the lateral folds of one having united with the opposite edge of the other, producing a common thoracic cavity with two lateral breast surfaces belonging by halves to either animal, as described in the preceding monsters. The crania and upper parts of the faces are completely distinct, but the mandibular processes have united across the plane of union in the same manner as the thoracic parietes, producing a common buccal cavity with a lower jaw and tongue on either side, each belonging by half to both animals. There are two tracheae, which lie to right and left like the hearts, and between them is a single oesophagus, very wide, extending from vertebral column to vertebral column. A small septum between the roots of the tongues divides the beginning of the pharynx into two passages and proves the essential duplicity of the oesophagus. The larynges open at the root of each tongue on either side of the septum. The thoracic and abdominal viscera had been removed, and no description of them is known to exist. The monster is of the female sex.