660 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. SECTION III. Development of the Human Ovum. Development of the Foetal Membranes, Decidua, and Placenta, 159-200 Size of the Embryo at different Periods of Gestation, 201-228 SECTION IV. Com,parative Anatomy of the Placenta and Membranes, 229-271 In William Hunter's MS. Catalogue, and in the printed catalogue prepared from it, the series " I'B. Gravid Uterus " comprised pre- parations illustrating not only the anatomy of the human gravid uterus and its contents, but also pathological conditions related to pregnancy and parturition. In the new catalogue the pathological preparations have been separated, and constitute Series 49. The old title has been retained for the series containing the anatomical preparations and the plaster of Paris casts illustrating gestation, which were included in the series originally, but were separated from it in the printed catalogue of 1841. The series is the largest and most valuable in the collection, and it is also the most interesting historically, on account of its relations to William Hunter's greatest works, viz., the volume of plates entitled The Anatomy of the Human Gravid Uterus exhibited in Figures, and the less important Anatomical Description of the Human Gravid Uterus and its Contents. These works have been freely quoted in the descriptions of the specimens, and the references to all passages quoted and to figures which have been identified with preparations (twenty-one in number) have been inserted. A few quotations have also been made from the MS. Midwifery Lectures. A brief account of these works and of the MS. will be found in the list of works referred to at the end of the catalogue and in the introduction. Of all the series in the collection this was the one most systema- tically arranged, following to a certain extent the order in which the subject is treated in the second of the above-mentioned works, but more closely that of the Midwifery Lectures. This order has been as far as possible retained; e.r/., in Section II. there is a set