801 DOUBLE MONSTERS. 50.35. Syncephalus Asymmetrus. Lamb. From Dr. Allen Thomson's Collection. (Iniope.) This specimen, which has been born at an advanced period of gestation, is the nearest approach to syncephalus symmetrus or janiceps in the collection. On the one side is a well-formed face; on the other is a cyclopian eye, nose and mouth both imperfectly formed but quite recognizable, and the ears placed nearly as far from one another as those of the perfect face. Both breast surfaces are divided through the middle of the sterna, showing the four lungs and two hearts. The liver is double, but fused across the plane of union. The small intes- tine is single for a considerable part of its length, and receives two bile ducts along with the ducts of two separate pancreases. The single part of the intestine ends in a wide sac, of roughly triangular shape, from each corner of which passes off the commence- ment of the two separate intestines belonging to the two separate lower bodies. From the free edge of this dilatation arises a single short diverticulum, doubtless the representative of a single vitelline duct corresponding to the single umbilicus. The monster is of the male sex. 50.36. Syncephalus. Human. Hunterian. A very good example of the syncephalus asymmetrus (synote), in which the posterior face is represented by a nasal process similar to that of the cyclopians (Nos. 50.63 et seq.), and a couple of ears fused together by their anterior edges. The foetuses are both well developed, and of size corresponding to the seventh month, measur- ing 14 inches (36 cm.) in length. The two crania have their anterior ends tilted up so as to lie base to base, and are both appar- ently complete up to the frontal bones. The compound cranium is therefore very broad, measuring 13 cm. (5 inches) wide and 27 cm. (lOJ inches) from occiput to occiput over the vertices. The specimen is not dissected. The abdominal wall is membranous over a small area behind the common umbilicus. Below this it is well formed, and the external genitals (female) are also well formed. 50.37. Syncephalus Asymmetrus. Human. A similar monstrosity, but very much misshapen. About the seventh month. The posterior, the ill-developed, face consists of a