578 HUNT BRIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. which the operation of the stone was performed with the cutting gorget; the i^arts cut are the bulb of the urethra, to the left Cowper's gland, the prostate sideways, and about half an inch of the bladder itself; the thickness of the prostate sufficiently defends the vesiculae seminales below; bristles show their orifices, and the knife has passed within one sixteenth of an inch of them to the left: section made on the dead body, with a view to show exactly the parts cut." 43.8. Lateral Lithotomy Wound. Hunterian. A A. 26ft {h X). " The whole of the parts concerned in lithotomy, cut by gorget composed from the blunt one and the blade of Dr. Hunter's knife; the objection to other cutting instruments was that they did not cut enough, or that the forceps could not be conveniently conveyed along them. A very large flint was conveyed into the bladder at its fundus, and extracted as in lithotomy, without laceration or wounding any important part; the caput gallinaginis, rectum, and vesiculae seminales untouched: the external as well as the internal parts are preserved." The fat of the ischio-rectal space has been dissected away to show the position of the rectum. The wound is very extensive ; the left lobe of the prostate gland is completely divided. 43.9. The Perinaeum and Neck of the Bladder showing Cicatrix of Lithotomy Wound. Fistula into the Rectum. Hunterian. A A. 27. "The same parts with the rectum opened in a boy who died in St. George's Hospital ; he was formerly cut for the stone, and the cicatrix is seen externally : in the operation the point of the staff" had got out of the orifice of the bladder, and the gorget had been pushed through above the natural passage; the rectum had also been injured; the natural passage is pointed out by a bristle, which, at its anterior end, points also to a little fistulous orifice, by which the urine got into the rectum, producing purging, etc. : the boy had the stone again, was to have been cut, but died." 43.10. Cicatrix of Lithotomy Wound. Fistula into the Rectum. Hunterian. AA. 27c. "The parts concerned in lithotomy: they seem to be from a