881 BEZOARS. chemical reactions corresponded to the description of Bezoars given in the Cafulor/ue of the Calculi in the Museum of the Eoyal College of Surgeons of England, where a far better and fuller account of them is given than could be found in numerous books of physiology and physiological chemistry which were examined. Of these nine- teen calculi, eleven belonged to the class of calculi composed chiefly of Ellagic Acid—the so-called Oriental Bezoar; the remaining eight are Resino-bezoardic Acid Calculi—the Occidental Bezoar. (a) calculi consisting of ellagic acid—THE ORIENTAL BEZOAR. There are in the collection eleven boxes of calculi or portions of calculi, which conform in their physical and chemical characters to the description and figures of the ellagic acid calculi in the Eoyal College of Surgeons' Catalogue, on which the following account of them is based (Loc. cit., p. 227) : " When an infusion of gall-nuts is exposed to the air for some weeks, and the vegetable mould which forms on its surface is removed from time to time, a crystalline powder is gradually deposited, which consists for the most part of impure gallic acid; if this deposit be digested in boiling water its gallic acid is dissolved, and there remains behind a dirty buff- coloured powder. This insoluble residue contains gallate of lime, ulmic acid and some other matters, but consists chiefly of the substance to which Braconnot has given the fanciful name of ellagic acid, derived from the word 'galle' reversed." The Ellagic acid calculi are mostly of an ovoid figure, varying according to the shape of the nucleus. They are of a deep olive or greenish-brown colour, smooth and polished externally. In cut or broken surface they are of the same colour as externally. They are built up of fine concentric laminae, which show a considerable tendency to split apart from one another; and they invariably have a nucleus consisting of a piece of twig, a seed, or a stone. They consist almost entirely of the ellagic acid of Braconnot, and a little woody fibre. Their chemical characters agreed with those given in the College of Surgeons' Catalogue as follows: " When heated they do not fuse, but emit a slight balsamic odour and partially sublime; if more highly heated they catch fire, burn with a low flame, and leave behind a carbonaceous ash. If the powder of the calculus be heated in a glass tube, a yellow sublimate is