SINGLE MONSTERS. 829 formed; the right eye is wanting, and from the slit representing its orbit a cleft passes down to the mouth—a persistence of the lachrymal cleft. It does not communicate with the nose, though the right alveolus and palatine process are absent, as the inter- maxillary portions are well formed. The left angle of the mouth is continued in a deep cleft back to the pillar of the fauces—a condition called macrostomia. In other respects the foetus is well formed. 50.102. Encephalocele. Aprosopus. Perobrachius. Even- tration. Human. Hunterian. MM. 60. (Proencephale and Pleurosorae.) A female foetus, apparently about full time. The frontal bone, including the orbital ridges, and the parietals are deficient, and in place of them rises a large sac of irregular shape, the largest lobe of which hangs to the left—a smaller one to the right. The left and most of the right lobes are covered with skin and hairy scalp. The top of the left lobe and the area between them on the top and front present the appearance of a cicatrix, with several small bridles of skin, and is in parts thin and membranous. It is also torn in two places. The placenta and membranes are not preserved. There is hardly any face; a single hole represents the naso-oral cavity, and two little dimples overhung by the cysts the orbits. The old description is, " a female child exceedingly deformed; the face is without distinction of eyes and nose, and there is a large tumour arising from the left side of the head; the viscera are external on the left side, from behind the left shoulder to the pelvis; the two upper extremities are very much changed from their natural appearance, the left being very short, and its hand is distinguished by four fingers only, not very perfect; the hand of the right arm has its fingers very imperfect, and the wrist is surrounded by three processes, not very unlike the spurs of a young fowl; its lower extremities are tolerably perfect." The processes are little tags of skin, each about 1 cm. long. 50.103. Meningocele. Pig. From Dr. Allen Thomson''s Collection. A young pig with small flat skull having a couple of loose wrinkled cysts on the top of it between the eyes. A label on the jar says it " was born along with nine others, and lived seven-