626 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. of labour at full time. The section of the tumour presents the usual appearance of a myoma. 45.42. Myoma of the Uterus. Pedunculated and Lying in the Vagina. Hunterian. CC. 74. " Uterus and vagina slit open; shows a polypus as large as a child's head at birth, hanging by a peduncle not above one-eighth of an inch diameter, and which therefore might easily have been extirpated." (The peduncle is fully one-fourth of an inch in diameter.) The cervix is everted and dilated, and one side of it above the peduncle is visible, presenting the rugose appearance characteristic of the virgin uterus. The specimen is figui'ed in Matthew Baillie's Engravings, Fasc. IX., PI. IV., fig. 1, as "a polypus of a considerable size, which had passed from the cavity of the uterus into the vagina." 45.43. Myoma of the Uterus. Pedunculated and Dis- tending the Vagina. Hunterian. CC. 74a. " Uterus and vagina slit open nearly their whole length; shows a polypus larger than a child's head at birth, filling up vagina; it hangs from the fundus uteri by a peduncle, as thick as one's finger, and about an inch and a half in length. Dr. Hunter attempted to tie it several times, without success, chiefly from its great size : at an earlier period there would have been no difficulty in tying it." The vagina is enormously distended, but is narrow towards the orifice, through which there is no projection of the tumour. The labia and perinaeum not preserved. 45.44. Myoma of the Uterus. Subserous; Pedunculated; in the Abdomen. — The specimen consists of the uterus, which is not much above the normal size, and a myoma considerably larger than a child's head at birth, attached by a rounded pedicle about 2 cm. in diameter to the centre of the top of the fundus. The uterus is cut open, show- ing in section several small myomata, and in the cavity a polypus similar to Nos. 4.5. 26 to 45. 29. The Fallopian tubes and broad liga- ments are spread out round either side of the base of the tumour. Nothing is known of the history of the specimen.