696 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. numerous holes—the cavities of dilated tubular glands; compare particularly Nos. 48.113, and 48.113a. The second lamina is the dense inner (or superficial) layer of the decidua; the third is the chorion, and the lowermost is the amnion, which is the innermost membrane of all and next to the embryo. 48.105. The Decidua. Hunterian. RU. 107. " A section probably from the same uterus; where, however, one lamina of decidua is left entirely adhering; but the prepara- tion in every other respect resembles No. 106" (preceding) The outer (i.e. deep) layer shows distinctly the pits which represent the ends of the dilated uterine glands. Compare No. 48.113a. 48.106. The Decidua at Six Months, showing that it is Hypertrophied Mucous Membrane of the Uterus. Hunterian. RR. 108. A section of the gravid uterus, injected blue by the uterine veins, red by the uterine arteries. This specimen is figured in Hunter's Gravid Uterus, Plate XXIV., figs. 3 and 4 (the arteries and veins of the decidua being figured separately " to avoid confusion"). The fact of its being injectable from the uterine vessels and not from the foetal proves that it is a uterine and not a foetal structure. The superficial lamella of decidua at the upper part has been turned down since the drawing was made, but the specimen was easily identified by the arrangement of certain vessels, such as the curling arteries at its left side. The turned down layer contains few vessels large enough to carry the injection, the deeper layer is crowded with vessels. The following description of the decidua is taken from the Descrip- tion of the Gravid Uterus, p. 46. "This is a membrane of a very peculiar nature, the knowledge of which throws great light upon the contents of the pregnant uterus, and upon the connection between the mother and child. It is the outer membrane of the secundines, and yet it may be said to be the internal membrane of the uterus. It is much thicker and more opaque than the other membranes, yet still is of a much more tender texture, insomuch that it has scarcely a more firm consistence than a curd of milk or coagulum of blood. It is full of small arteries