889 TRIPLE PHOSPHATE CONCRETIONS. intestine; the nodules in shape and size closely resemble the masses of horse dung which are formed in the saccules of the great intestine. It is softer and more fusible than most of the concretions of this species, containing a very large amount of organic matter and a considerable proportion of earthy phosphates mixed with the triple. {Hunterian Plate V., figs. 1 and 2.) *52.119. Triple Phosphate Concretion. Himterian. A very large concretion, cut, lobulated in the same manner as the preceding. It measures 20 inches in its greatest circumference and weighs about 8 lbs. It consists of triple phosphates (magnesium and ammonium), with some phosphate of lime and layers of the tuft of hairs at the extremity of the oat. It has eleven lobules, each about 3 inches across. The nucleus is a very small pebble. (Hunterian Plate VII., fig. 3.) 52.120. Triple Phosphate Concretion. Horse. Presented by Alex. S. Young, Esq., 1896. A very large calculus, uncut, of irregular oval shape, measuring 21-^ inches (55 cm.) in its greatest circumference, and weighing 9J lbs. In colour it is like limestone, with deep brown patches of organic matter here and there which do not give the reactions of blood. It is composed of triple phosphates with traces of earthy phosphates; the outside layer is in the form of large opaque crystals of various shapes. The person who removed it did not notice what part of the abdomen it came from, and what symptoms it produced, if it produced any, is not known. 52.121. Triple Phosphate Concretion. Horse. Presented hy Hugli, Vallance, M.D., Strathaven. Half of a very large concretion of spherical shape. It measures 22 inches (56 cm.) in circumference, and weighs 6| lbs. It is light for its size compared with other stones of the same class, because the centre for a diameter of 6 inches is a ball of soft loose organic matter infiltrated with phosphates, much of which has fallen out, and what remains is comparatively light. It is the largest concretion in the museum. A note by Professor Thomas Thomson states that it was from the intestine of a horse,