HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 580 urine was removed after this. She died in three days, and on sectio the abdomen was found full of urine, which had escaped by a rent " in the superior part of the bladder, large enough to admit the introduction of a finger. The edges of this aperture were jagged and of a blackish colour; the rest of the bladder appeared to be sound. "In general, the intestines and their append- ages had a very sound appearance." The uterus also "appeared to be in a sound state, and sufficiently contracted considering that the woman died on the ninth day after delivery." The amount of urine in the abdomen was fourteen pints, 43.12. Urinary Fistula into the Rectum due to a Large Calculus in the Membranous Part of the Urethra. Dilatation of the Ureters and Bladder. Hunterian. A A. 41. "The bladder and rectum of Colonel •; he was cut for the stone by Mr. Hawkins, and died a few days after the operation. He determined at last to submit to the operation because he was miserable; for besides the ordinary complaints, his urine had made a passage into the rectum, which from time to time had all the effects of a sharp clyster. He could hardly venture abroad, and at home was from that urgency always without breeches. On passing the finger within the sphincter ani, the large bag of stones was distinctly felt; they were covered by a thin membrane only ; and on the most prominent part the point of the finger felt the fistulous hole where the urine passed, and where the stones were bare. The quill is in that orifice. On the fore part is seen the cavity of the bladder, with quills in the dilated ureters ; below which is the urethra laid open, where it passes through the prostate,' with a bristle in a seminal duct; and below that again the cavity of the bag which contained the stones, which in reality were in the dilated membranous part of the urethra." 43.13. Fistula between the Urethra and the Rectum. Calculus. Hunterian. AA. 37. The bladder, injected red and inverted, "from a man who had the stone." It shows hypertrophy of the muscular wall, and roughening of the mucous membrane due to cystitis, marked dilatation of the ureters, and a fistulous communication with the