HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 604 44.25. The Arteries of the Uterus. Hmteiian. CC. 23. The uterus from an adult female. The arteries injected red and dissected, showing the two sources of the uterine blood supply, viz., (1) the hypogastric arteries passing from the brim of the pelvis to the side of the cervix and sending branches down to the vagina, and upwards on the side of the uterus, and (2) branches of the ovarian arteries running in from the broad ligament. These two sets of vessels meet and form a rich anastomosis in the body and fundus. Compare specimens in the Gravid Uterus series, No. 48.27 et scq. The uterus is opened from behind, and there are bristles in the Fallopian tubes. 44.26. The Arteries and Veins of the Uterus and Ovaries. Huntcrian. CC. 24. One half of the uterus and vagina divided in sagittal section, injected red by the arteries, yellow by the veins. The veins, dis- tended with injection, form a couple of varicose masses of enormous size in comparison to the uterus and ovaries. The specimen does not show the course of the vessels distinctly; the veins, however, clearly accompany the arteries. In the section are seen the cavity of the uterus, its sides almost in contact; the muscular wall is about I of an inch (1 cm.) and the mucous membrane fully of an inch (-15 cm.) in thickness, and there are numerous blood vessels, especially about the middle of the organ. A bristle is passed into the Fallojjian tube, and another, in the lower part of the specimen, through the urethra, 44.27. Arteries and Veins of the Uterus. Hunterian. CC. 25. Other half of the preceding. The veins about the side of the cervix uteri and vagina are very numerous and large. 44.28. The Uterus. Hunterian. CC. 27. An uterus laid open from behind to show the thickness of its walls and its cavity. The latter is divided into two portions, which present very different characters—(1) the cavity of the cervix and (2) the cavity of the body. They are of nearly equal length ; a slight constriction, called the os uteri internum, marks