ABSCESS OF THE MAMMA. 621 It appears not to be the specimen which was originally in the bottle, as the descriptions do not at all correspond. 45.24. Chronic Abscess of the Mamma, simulating Can- cerous Growth. Presented hy Dr. T. K. Dalziel, 1897. One half of a large mammary gland, illustrating the above. "The specimen was obtained by excision in November, 1897, from a woman, aged 42. The clinical features were suggestive of malignant disease, there being a dense firm mass in the mammary gland, with enlargement of the axillary lymphatic glands. History dated a year back; no pain on pressure; no oedema or redness of the skin, which was, however, adherent and puckered. No history of tubercle or injury, but the patient was weak-minded, and ultimately became insane." In the middle of the breast, below and to one side of the nipple (which for the most part remains with the part retained by Dr. Dalziel), there is a great mass of rather dense fibrous tissue, with a coujjle of cavities, which contained pus. They have very thick walls. Microscopic examination showed fibrous tissues of varying density, portions of gland, and a large amount of inflammatory cell formation, here and there amounting to actual small abscesses ; no evidence that the condition is of tubercular nature. (W. of Scotland Clin. Research Lab., No. 1/206.) 45.25. Tubercular Disease of the Ovaries and Fallopian Tubes. Ulceration into Bladder. Hunterian. CO. 57. " Uterus, vagina, and bladder, from a woman in the dissecting room: the body of the uterus pretty sound, but the ovaria of both sides much enlarged and ulcerated; several abscesses were also found, and the disease had extended to the bladder, which has two holes communicating with these abscesses: these holes are pointed out by quills." The two main abscesses are of the ovaries ; that on the left has been split by two incisions, and the outer segments turned down before and behind; the right is simply split, so as to show the abscess cavities. The Fallopian tubes are for the most part cut away, but what remains shows that they were thickened very considerably. Microscopic exam- ination of portions of " abscess" wall and Fallopian tube shows the disease to be tubercular. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 137.)