828 HUNT BRIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. constricted, the sides bulging to right and left above. Its front rises abruptly above the eyes and root of nose, sloping forwards considerably and forming a large expanse of forehead crowned with the hair of the scalp. Inside there is a large rounded chamber, the floor of which is the anterior fossa of the skull. In the position of the external constriction it narrows to a neck bounded below and on the sides by the strongly projecting sharp edges of the great wings of the sphenoid; above and behind by a rounded ridge following the line of the frontal-parietal suture. The excrescence therefore consists of the frontal bone, whose halves are stretched and pressed asunder. Behind it is a median ridge about 3 cm. long by 2 cm. wide, by about 1 cm. high, in which the space between the parietal bones has been bulged up. Its sides are osseous, a rhomboidal area of its summit membranous. The posterior and inner parts of the parieto-occipital sutures are closed with bone. The cavitj' of the cranium proper is very wide, corresponding to its external dimensions, and the middle fossa is covered to an unusual extent by the great wings of the sphenoid. Dimensions—cranium, antero-posterior, 9 cm. ; side to side, 10 cm.; circumference, 31'5 cm. The corresponding dimen- sions of the excrescence are 10 cm., 8 cm., and 27"5 cm.; the circumference of its base, 25-5 cm.; height of the cranium from meatus auditorius externus to vertex, 6"5 cm. ; from same point to top of excrescence, 12 cm.; greatest height of do., 7 cm. The sides of the excrescence are osseous. All four limbs are slightly stumped—peromelia. 50.101. Encephalocele. Adhesions of the Amnion. Human. From Dr. Allen Thomson's Collection. (Podencephale.) A male foetus, apparently about the eighth month, with its placenta and membranes. The cranium is very small, hardly rising above the line of the eyes and ears. The vertex is deficient rather more to the right than left, and from the gap a loose oval sac (an encephalocele) with thick soft walls hangs down upon the right shoulder. The surface of the sac looks like the skin of a cicatrix. The placenta and membranes lie on the bottom of the jar. A long strip of membrane, now twisted into a cord, but measuring 12 cm. at its widest part, is attached by two narrow flattened cords to the front of the encephalocele near its base. The nose and left eye are well