TUMOURS OF THE OESOPHAGUS AND STOMACH. 441 34.16. Fibroma of the Stomach. Leopard. Hunterian. 0. 536. Portion of a stomach, said to be part of the preceding (which is doubtful, as this is injected and the other not), showing a hard ridge which microscopic examination shows to have the structure of a fibroma covered with mucous membrane, and a thin layer of muscle, similar to the preceding. Two bristles are placed in holes leading into the tumour. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 26.) 34.17. Submucous Myoma of the Stomach. Hunterian. 0. 53c. A portion of the pyloric end of a stomach, including the pylorus, inverted, showing a hemispherical tumour projecting from its inner surface. It is encapsuled, covered with mucous mem- brane, and very hard; a portion had been removed to show its appearance on section, and from this surface a slice was taken for microscopic examination. It is slightly umbilicated, probably from' softening in the centre. It presents the structure of a myoma. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 27.) It is figured in Matthew Baillie's Engravings, Fasc. III., PI. IV., fig. 1, and described as "a circumscribed scirrhous tumour of the stomach." 34.18. Stricture of the Oesophagus opposite the Bifur- cation of the Trachea. Epithelioma. Hunterian. 0. 48. The larynx, trachea, pharynx, and oesophagus, divided longi- tudinally, showing an ulcerated tumour forming a stricture of the oesophagus behind the bifurcation of the trachea. The oesophageal wall is replaced by a tumour, completely encircling the tube, for a distance of about 6 cm. The diameter of the tumour is only 2 cm. The tracheal wall appears to be involved to a slight degree externally. " The patient could swallow nothing, but was nourished for some weeks by clysters." There is no further history. Micro- scopic structure, epithelioma. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 15.) Figured in Matthew Baillie's Engravings, Fasc. III., PI. IV., fig. 1, as "a stricture in the oesophagus near the cardia." 34.19. Stricture of the Oesophagus opposite the Bifur- cation of the Trachea. Epithelioma. Hunterian. 0. 49. The other half of the preceding.