720 HUNT BRIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. of the ovum, was a small round body." This he thought to be the ovum. From examination of the specimen it appears that the decidua reflexa had completely enclosed the ovum, and that it was opened and the ovum shelled out. Of the prolongations of the decidua into the Fallopian tubes only one remains; a bristle was easily passed in through what was clearly recognizable as the natural calibre of the tube in the long one, and brought out by the other. The characteristic triangular shape of the decidua, corresponding to the shape of the cavity of the uterus, is quite evident even now. What Sir T. Wharton Jones opened and figured was the chorion. Of the round body supposed to have been the ovum nothing now remains. The whole chorionic vesicle, which lay on the bottom of the jar and is somewhat torn, measured 5 mm. in diameter; the plate shows the supposed ovum a little over 1 mm. The conception must have been much younger than Dr. Mackenzie imagined. The chorionic villi are matted together. This, and their aggregation on the side next the decidua serotina, seem to indicate that the placenta was already beginning to form. Microscopic examination of a small portion cut from the villous part, shows the chorionic membrane with a good deal of loose fibrous tissue on its inner side, and a number of small well formed (and fairly well preserved) villi cut in diff'erent directions on the other; also one or two of what seem to be decidual cells at the tip of one of these. There is no tissue between the epithelium covered edges of the villi. The chorion is hung from the lower edge of the decidua. 48.161. Human Ovum, probably about Three Weeks Old. Hunterian. ER. 199. Similar to No. 159, but a little larger, laid open. The outside is shaggy with villi. Over one area they are matted together by portions of decidua in which their ends were embedded. The placental area was even at this early age distinctly differentiated from the rest of the surface of the chorion by the greater develop- ment of the villi. There is no trace of the embryo. 48.162. Human Ovum, probably about Three Weeks Old. Hunterian. ItlL 201. Similar to No. 48.159, but slightly larger. On one side the villi are less marked than on the other, which would probably have become the placental area.