CALCIUM OXALATE CONCRETIONS. INTESTINAL. 895 DIVISION VII. Concretions consisting principally of Oxalate of Lime. There is only one calculus of the above composition belonging to this series in the museum. It is a lar2;e calculus which has been of nearly globular or short oval shape, measuring in its longest diameter 11'4 cm., in its shortest 9 cm.; it was broken into numerous fragments which were easily identified as belonging to one another by their very peculiar appearance, and the accuracy with which they could be fitted together. About one-half of the concretion has been glued together and forms Specimen No. 52.150; the remaining fragments left loose form No. 52.151. The intestinal nature of it is clearly shown by its having a large mass of vegetable fibres mixed with softer organic debris and earth for its centre. Its source is not known. Like most concretions it is formed in fine laminae which are with difficulty separable. It has split into a central shell about 1-2 cm. thick surrounding the nucleus, and an outer shell fully 2-5 cm. thick; both of these show some tendency to split into thinner shells. There is no distinct radiate arrange- ment of crystals as in the phosphate of lime calculi. It is not tuberculated like the urinary oxalate calculi, and is much less hard. It is brown in colour, and in appearance and texture is exactly like sandstone. The inner shell is of lighter brown colour, harder and finer in the grain than the outer. The outer is like rather coarse-grained sandstone, and fairly soft and crushable. Its exterior is rough like a coarse water-worn sandstone. Before the blowpipe both parts swell up to a loose white ash which eflFervesces strongly with acids. The powder of both appears to be insoluble, or only to a very slight extent soluble in acetic acid. With hydrochloric acid the powder of the outer layer at first effervesces and partly dissolves; the residue, a considerable one, dissolves slowl)' and without effer- vescence ; that of the inner shell does not effervesce, but slowly dissolves. The inuer shell consists of almost pure oxalate of lime; the outer of oxalate of lime mixed with a large proportion of carbonate of lime. The proportion of organic matter is small. 52.150. Intestinal Concretion composed principally of Oxalate of Lime. Hunterian. About one-half of the concretion described above, the fragments fitted together and united with glue.