928 HUNTERLiN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. a hard shell about 5 tnra. thick. The calcium oxalate gradually becomes more mixed with phosphates, and the exterior of the stone is white, composed of the fusible compound—mixed phosphates. {Hrniterian Plate XX., Hg. 1.) SECTION IV. Calculi consisting principally of Mixkd Phosphates— THE Fusible Calculus of Wollaston. These calculi are composed of a mixture of the normal phosphate of the alkaline earths (phosphate of calcium and magnesium— principally the triphosphates), with triple phosphate (magnesium- ammonium phosphate). They are as a rule of secondary formation, round a nucleus consisting of a calculus of one of the preceding species or (much more rarely) a foreign body. They usually contain also some calcium oxalate and ammonium urate, a considerable amount of organic debris, and occasionallj^ some calcium carbonate; the last ingredient especially in stones from the lower animals. Their colour is usually a ding3' white, sometimes with a pinkish tinge, or grey; the exterior is always rough. In texture they are more or less chalky; they vary greatly in density and hardness; generally soft and friable. Before the blowpipe they blacken more or less from the combustion of the organic matter in them, and fuse very easily to a grey or white enamel. They dissolve in hydro- chloric acid without effervescence (unless calcium carbonate be present), and give a precipitate on neutralizing with ammonia, which is crystalline in the case of triple, amorphous in the case of the earthy phosphates. There are twenty-nine specimens in the collec- tion which have been classified as of this species, but in addition many calculi in other parts of the series contain mixed phosphates. (a) Nucleus a Calculus of some other species, or of Phosphates mixed tvith other materials. 53.136. Mixed Phosphate Calculus. Hunterian, Half of a stone as large as a hen's egg, of flattened spherical shape, consisting of a small calcium oxalate and ammonium urate calculus enclosed in a thick shell of the fusible compound—largely triple phosphates.