DOUBLE MONSTERS. 799 in the two preceding. The fore limbs are placed quite on the side of the neck anterior to the right fore limb of the developed twin, and the hinder parasitic limbs are also placed further forward on the chest than in the preceding specimens. 50.31. Turkey Chick with Anterior Parasitic Hind Limbs. Dipygus Tetrabrachius. (Deradelphe.) The relations of the extra hind limbs to the body are exactly similar to those of the hinder part of the para- sites in the kittens, Nos. 50.28 and 50.29. There is no trace of fore limbs. SYNCEPHALUS. This genus of monstrosities is closely related to the last members of the preceding dipygus tetrabrachius. The mode of fusion is the same, but the degree of doubling is greater, extending to the head. (Compare introductory paragraph before No. 50.14.) As in the dipygus tetrabrachius, there is complete duplicity below the umbilicus. Also the upper parts of the abdomens and the thoraces and necks are united face to face, and there are two breast surfaces, placed at the sides of the bodies, each formed by half from either foetus. Instead, however, of a single head facing the same way as one of the breast surfaces and showing only a trace of duplicity in the occiput, the head is distinctly compound. The two crania are united by their anterior surfaces, and the facial parts are united in the same manner as the parietes of the thoraces. In the most completely double form there are two crania, with a complete face on either side cor- responding to the two breast surfaces, and likewise formed by half from either embryo (syncephalus symmetrus). Where the doubling is less, the median parts of one face are suppressed; there is a cyclo- opian eye, perhaps also a cyclopian nose, a mouth, and a pair of ears close together. In the least degree of duplicity there is a head similar to that of the dipygus tetrabrachius, but unduly wide behind, and with a posterior pair of ears mere or less fused together placed about the junction of the neck with the occiput (syncephalus asym- metrus). The arrangement of the viscera is similar in the lower and in the higher degrees, but in the higher the two hearts and four lungs are generally better developed. The two hearts lie on the