444 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. cavity of the stomach was not greater than that of a small intestine." The inner surface of all of this half of the stomach, except a small part of the cardiac end, is considerably ulcerated, and the walls are thickened. There is a mass of secondarily infiltrated glands along the lesser curvature. Microscopic structure—carcinoma of the scirrhous type. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 22.) 34.26. Carcinoma of Lesser Curvature of the Stomach. Hunterian. 0. 59. Part of the stomach, showing a thick irregularly rounded ulcerated tumour, with raised edges, about 5 cm. in diameter, situated in the lesser curvature of the stomach near to but not involving the pylorus; " from an old woman who had jaundice. Case unknown." On microscopic examination it is found to be a carcinoma, highly cellular, of the scirrhous type. The jaundice was probably due to secondary carcinomatous growths in the liver. Several carcinomatous lymphatic glands are seen outside the tumour. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 30.) 34.27. Carcinoma of the Fundus of the Stomach. Large Tumour. Hunterian. 0. 53. A bulky tuhiour involving the whole fundus of the stomach to the left of the cardia, the orifice of the oesophagus not affected. There is enormous thickening of the viscus and narrowing of the cavity. The mass is smooth and lobulated on its outside ; inter- nally, lobulated and very much ulcerated. The end of the tumour has been sliced off, and the sound stomach to the pyloric side turned back over it, so as to show the thickness of the tumour and its abrupt greatly thickened edge. Its structure is highly cellular carcinoma of the scirrhous type, having a well developed stroma. A very unusually large tumour for a scirrhus. "From the dissecting room." (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 21.) 34.28. Carcinoma of the Pylorus. Hunterian. 0. 42/. A portion of a stomach showing a large carcinomatous ulcer with considerable thickening extending all round the pylorus. Structure—carcinoma of the scirrhous type. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 63.) This specimen was purchased at the sale of Magnus Falconar's collection.