698 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 48.107. The Decidua Injected from the Uterus. Hunterian. RR. 102. "A part of the uterus injected black; the membranes (chorion and amnion) on the inside are detached in part; the amnion and chorion are not injected, but the decidua is, proving it to belong to the uterus." Very similar to the preceding, which see. 48.108. Blood-vessels of the Decidua at Term. Hunterian. RR. 109. A portion of the decidua from a labour at full time, prepared to show the above. It is mounted on a piece of white paper, on the back of which is written in William Hunter's handwriting. " From a secundine at the Hospital, before the matron and pupils July 11th, 1766." (The British Lying-in Hospital, of which he was the chief physician.) The mode of preparation is as follows : " In order to see the genuine appearance of the decidua after a labour, the secundines should be instantly well washed in warm water, to remove the loose coagulated blood, and then put into cold water that the blood which remains in the vessels may congeal; and when the decidua happens to be well marked with blood-vessels, a piece of the membranes may be spread upon white paper and held near a strong fire till the blood changes to a blackish colour and dries. This prevents the transudation of the red blood, which would presently render the vascular structure of the decidua indistinct or invisible. The number and size of the vessels which pass from the uterus to the placenta, and which are necessarily broken through upon a separation of these two parts, sufficiently accounts for the bleeding which has always been known to happen upon such an occasion; and we cannot longer wonder that considerable and even fatal bleedings have happened from a separation merely of a part of the membranes. " Though the decidua be allowed to be the outer membrane of the secundines, yet, as it is really the internal lamella of the uterus, we may still retain the old language, and say that the outer membrane of the ovum (that is of the contents of the uterus) is chorion, and that the chorion is in contact with and adheres to the uterus. Those anatomists who describe the human chorion as a transparent smooth membrane, without any blood- vessels are surely so far in the right, but when they apply that description to the outer membrane of the secundines, they betray