915 URATE OF AMMONIUM CALCULI. urate of ammonium ; round this is a layer of loose textured pale brown material containing much organic matter which burns with a yellow flame, and outside all a very dense layer of darker coloured matter which consists of uric acid and calcium oxalate. The loose layer contains ammonium urate. 53.81. Calculus consisting largely of Urate of Ammonium. Hunterian. Half of a large oval calculus, a considerable amount of the outer layers of which has broken away, leaving its shape rather irregular. The centre is a calcium oxalate stone as large as a filbert. The rest consists of two wide layers of dense hard brittle matter of very pale brownish-white colour and two narrow layers of less compact reddish-brown matter. Both of these contain a large amount of urate of ammonium and some calcium oxalate, the lighter parts having the larger proportion of the latter. 53.82. Calculus consisting largely of Urate of Ammonium, with some Oxalate and Phosphates. Hunterian. A calculus nearly as large as a hen's egg, which consists of a large central stone of pale brown matter containing much urate of ammonium intersected by dark lines of calcium oxalate; then a broad layer of pale pink fusible phosphates mixed with urate of ammonium; and lastly a thin brown shell of calcium oxalate mixed with urate of ammonium. Its exterior has a rough, water-worn appearance. 53.83. Calculus of Urate of Ammonium, Uric Acid, and Calcium Oxalate. Hunterian. Half of a stone of irregular oval shape consisting of a central concretion composed of strata of hard pale matter like that composing the centre of the preceding; it contains much urate of ammonium, divided by distinct narrow laminae of pure calcium oxalate, which is very hard and shows a great tendency to take the tuberculated form characteristic of oxalate calculi. Outside the last of these laminae is a broad zone of brown finely laminated uric acid mixed with calcium oxalate. Outside all a thin coat of organic debris containing some phosphates.