568 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 42.82. The Nerves of the Penis and the Corpus Spongio- sum and Glans Penis. Hunterian. BB. 33. A penis injected with mercury by the veins so as to distend the whole of the erectile tissues, the integuments removed, dried, and then one half of the glans and end of the right corpus caver- nosum cut away, allowing the mercury in part to escape. Shows the continuity of the glans with the corpus spongiosum urethrae, and the manner in which the corpora cavernosa fit into and are attached to it. The dorsal nerves are also seen, as in No. 42.80> running external to the dorsal artery, branching and curving round the sides of the organ. The piece cut out is suspended above the rest of the specimen. Also shows the shape of the urethra—a vertical slit-like orifice widening out into a deeper vertical sinus in the glandular portion, which changes into a horizontally flattened tube as it passes below the rounded end of the corpora cavernosa into the corpus spongiosum. 42.83. The Relation of the Corpora Cavernosa to the Glans Penis. Hunterian. BB. 28. A longitudinal section of the end of a penis which had previously been washed out, partly distended with spirit and hardened. The section passes above the urethra, and shows the manner in which the corpora cavernosa fit into the base of the glans. Shows also the prepuce in section. 42.84. The Arteries and Cavernous Tissues of the Penis, Hunterian. BB. 19. "The corpora cavernosa dried by quicksilver injection, after having been injected red by the arteries," the sides then cut out and the mercury allowed to escape, so that the cavernous tissue remains with its spaces greatly exaggerated. Compare the pre- ceding and No. 42.77. The dorsal arteries, and the central arteries of the corpora cavernosa with their branches running in the trabeculae, are very beautifully displayed. Mounted in turpentine. 42. 85. The Arteries and Cavernous Tissues of the Penis. Hunterian. BB. 20. One half of the anterior part of a penis treated in a similar