704 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. injection, from those of the navel-string, yet it is full of both large and small arteries and veins. These are all branches of the uterine vessels, and are readily filled by injecting the arteries and veins of the uterus ; and they all break through in separating the placenta from the uterus, leaving corresponding orifices on the two parted surfaces. "This decidua or uterine portion of the placenta is not a simple thin membrane expanded over the surface of the part. It pro- duces a thousand irregular processes, which pervade the substance of the placenta, as deep as the chorion or inner surface, and are everywhere so blended and entangled with the ramifications of the umbilical system that no anatomist will perhaps be able to discover the nature of their union. While these two parts are combined, the placenta makes a pretty firm mass, no part of it is loose or floating; but when they are carefully separated, the umbilical system is evidently nothing but loose floating ramifications of the umbilical vessels (compare No. 48.127), like that vascular portion of the chorion which makes part of the placentula in a calf; and the uterine part is seen shooting out into innumerable floating processes and rugae, with the most irregular and most minutely subdivided cavities between them that can be conceived. This part answers to the uterine fungus of a quadruped." (Compare 48. 232 et seq., Placentae of cow and sheep.) " In a placenta of nine months I have never been able to separate the two constituent parts other- wise than by some degree of putrefaction, and gentle rubbing and washing; but this operation always destroys the uterine portion, which is more tender and melts down by putrefaction sooner than the other. In the placenta of an earlier age, the union of the two constituent portions is less intimate, and they may both be preserved entire, like the vascular chorion and fungus in the quadruped. I did this operation in a conception of four months, and still preserve the uterine part of it attached to the inside of the uterus. I wished to give a figure of it; but the processes were so irregular and so changeable, while floating in the water, that the painter could not express them; and when taken out of the water they collapsed into a smooth membranous appearance." (This specimen is not now in the Museum.) " These two portions of the placenta are so interwoven with one another as to leave innumerable small vacuities, with free communications through the whole substance. If this cellular structure be inflated or injected, the placenta, like the corpora cavernosa penis, acquires a very