476 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. the beginning of which is a black circle. This bag was formed from hernia; the black circle is the line of strangulation; the patient died (Marybone Workhouse)." The protruded portion does not include the whole calibre of the gut. It is very much stretched. At the line of strangulation it is ruptured. 36.28. Omentum from a Strangulated Hernia. Hunterian. P. 73. "A portion of omentum, also marked with a black line, and strangulated with the intestine in the above case." The colour has faded, but the line of constriction is clearly visible. 36.29. Strangulated Hernia. Hunterian. R. 64. A portion of the abdominal wall with the sac of a hernia, which is laid open, showing a mass of omentum with a knuckle of colon in the middle. The bowel is tightly constricted, and the omentum looks gangrenous. The bowel inside the abdomen above the strangulation is considerably distended. " Herniary sac laid open to show colon protruded. (Not described in Hunterian MSS.)" 36.30. Hernia of the Caput Caecum. Strangulation, Sloughing, Recovery. Hunterian. B. 54. Lower end of the ileum and beginning of the colon, with a portion of the whole thickness of the abdominal parietes adhering to the latter, inflated and dried, from a patient who had recovered from strangulated hernia 31 years before. Patient had had a hernia for some years, which after severe exertion became irreducible, and "being without medical assistance, he suff'ered, for about a fortnight, terrible pains, with constipation, from a strangulation of the intestine." He was then operated upon, the surgeon cutting away " (as he imagined) six inches of the whole annular substance of the mortified intestine, and near half the scrotum, including, as he thought, the spermatic vessels and testicle of that side." All the faeces passed by the opening in the groin, but graduallj' began to pass by the anus, and in a month the wound closed, and he had no further trouble. The case was published in Vol. V. of the Edinburgh Medical Essays, by Mr. Cookesley, of Crediton,