800 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. plane of union immediately under the two sterna, and the oesophagus is always single and runs down between them in the centre of the neck and thorax. According to Forster, the medulla oblongata and cerebellum at least are always double and distinct. Most of the above points are illustrated in the succeeding specimens. 50.32. Syncephalus Asymmetrus. Pig. Hunterian. (Synote.) A monstrosity of nearly full-grown foetal pig, showing the degree of syncephaly nearest to the preceding single-headed monsters. The head is very like that seen in the preceding series of kittens, but the occipital region, even without dissection, is clearly seen to be double, and there are four ears, the posterior pair fused together by the anterior edges of the pinnae. There is a single dimple in the centre of the compound pinna, but no proper meatus auditorius externus. The breast surface on one side had been split and the animal bent out flat, which shows the anatomy of the viscera very badly. One heart and two lungs (one belonging to each animal) are visible, and on turning these aside two more lungs and a second apparently equally well-developed heart are found in the other side of the thorax. The aorta of the anterior heart divides, and the two divisions pass into an aorta running down each vertebral column. The liver appears to be single. Injected red. 50.33. Syncephalus Asymmetrus. Pig. Hunterian. (Synote.) A similar monstrosity stuffed, showing the natural external relationships of the two bodies, and the exti'a ears, which are fused together as in the preceding. 50.34. Syncephalus Asymmetrus. Fallow Deer. Hunterian. (Synote.) A similar monstrosity stuffed, showing the external form and the two extra ears in the occipital region. They are fused as in the preceding. On comparison with the dipygus tetrabrachius (deradelphe) of fallow deer (No. 50.19), there is seen to be very little difference between the heads externally, except the presence of an extra couple of ears behind.