THE PLACENTA. 691 48.88. A Placenta and Umbilical Cord, Arteries injected red, Veins yellow. Hunterian. EE. 87b. It is dried, varnished, and mounted in a round glazed frame. It had become exceedingly dirty, and was therefore cleaned with spirit, sized, and varnished in December of 1896. The branches of the vessels can be traced to considerable fineness. The twisting of the cord and its arteries and vein are also well displayed. 48.89. Uterus and Foetus at about Five Months. The Decidua and Placenta. Hunterian. EE. 89. An uterus at about five months, laid open on one face by a crucial incision, and inverted. One of the cuts extends from near the os internum to the fundus, the other from side to side. The placenta is left adhering, and the foetus is suspended above the uterus, the cord intact. The opaque raembrana decidua has been stripped from the muscle all round the placenta, showing its thickness and characteristic cribriform appearance, and the muscular fibres behind it. At the right side of the specimen (left of the observer) the cervix and part of the vagina can be seen inside the inverted uterus. The internal os is then recognized looking outwards. Beside it is a circular orifice formed by the margin of the decidua vera, where its neck has been divided at the point of union with the mucous membrane of the cervix. Shows that the decidua is uterine mucous membrane, modified for a particular purpose. 48.90. Uterus at Full Time, Emptied and Inverted, showing the Condition after Labour. Hunterian. EE. 90. " An uterus at full time, cut open and inverted; in some places the muscular fibres are nearly bare, in other places portions of the membranes are left adhering. There is an uncommon roughness at one part, where the placenta had adhered." Compare this descrip- tion of the interior of a uterus at the full time, either after natural labour or after artificial removal of the foetus and membranes (which at this period of pregnancy would amount to much the same thing in so far as the structures taken and left are concerned), with the descriptions of specimens Nos. 48.20 and 48.25. The mouths of the torn veins in the placental site (decidua serotina) are blocked with fibrinous plugs.