844 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. primitive vertebra (mesoblastic somite). 24-25 hours. (Page 76 et seq.) Model 3. Fifth Stage. Advance of the folding-off of the embryo, closure of the neural canal in progress, formation of a series of primitive vertebrae (mesoblastic somites) behind the tirst, formation of the tubular heart, growingin of the processes of splanchnopleure (splanchnopleuric folds). The medullary folds diverge, then draw in again about the end of the primitive streak, which is now less prominent. 26-30 hours. (Page 83 et seq.) The Sixth Stage, which is not represented by a model, is the completion of the primitive vascular system, and commencement of the movements of the heart; formation of the Wolffian body, protrusion of the optic vesicles from the first primitive cerebral vesicle, 30-40 hours, varying as early even as 22 to as late as 56 hours, with differences in the eggs, regulation of temperature, etc. (as His points out). 51.12. Development of the Chick. (After His.) From Br. Allen Thomson's Collection. Models 4, 5, and 6 : Stages 5 and 7. Model 4. The same embryo as 3, viewed from below and with part of the hypoblast and splanchnopleure removed, to show the formation of the heart in the coalesced folds of splanchnopleuric layer of the mesoblast. The coalescence of the splanchnopleuric folds also brings about the enclosure of the fore gut for some distance. Model 5. Longitudinal section of 3, showing the head fold, protruding optic vesicles on the side of the fore brain, primitive aorta, and fore gut. The heart is tubular; there is only a single aortic (branchial) arch; the fore gut behind the heart is enclosed for a considerable distance ; it is blind anteriorly, the mouth not being formed yet. Model 6. Seventh Stage. Completion of the series of three primary cerebral vesicles, definition of the optic vesicles by narrow- ing of their stalks, formation of the otic vesicle and otic invagination of the epiblast; lateral curvature of the heart; inclosure of the cephalic end by the growing-up of the amnion. Towards end of second day. (Loc. cit., p. 103 et seq.)