806 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. the latter aorta, shortly after crossing the manubrium, two branches arise, and run to the riglit fore leg and head of the left animal. The great vessels were not dissected further. The right auricle receives behind two pairs of vessels, which are an ascending and a descending vena cava, from each animal. It was opened in the middle and glass rods jjlaced in the vessels to show their courses. The pulmonary veins were not dissected out, but their entrance into the left auricle was noted. The relations of them and of the left auricle to the right auricle and left ventricle appeared strictly normal when compared with a normal foetal heart in a similar stage of development. The foramen ovale appeared very large. The edge of the Eustachian valve was sufficiently prominent. The abnormalities fitting the single heart to discharge the functions of the double animal are, therefore, all in the blood-vessels. Though placed in the intermediate region of the thorax, the heart appears to belong more to the right than to the left animal. There are two tracheae and two oesophagi, which are related to the lungs, aorta, and vertebral columns of their respective animals in the normal way. The aorta of the left animal crosses behind the oesophagus to get to its left side. The liver consists of a large mass right across the upper part of the common abdominal cavity, lying to the right side of the right and the left side of the left animal. A small lobe also stretches obliquely across between the stomachs into the right side of the left animal. As mentioned above, there is only one umbilical vein, but it divides at a wide angle into two large and several small branches shortly after entering the liver; the two large branches pass away in the direction of the two inferior venae cavae. There is a bile duct passing to each intestine, and there are two spleens. The intestines and stomachs are double and quite distinct; the only connection between them being a fine cord about 2 cm. long which passes between the two small intestines in the lower jejunal (or upper ileac) regions. It has no connection with the umbilicus. The limbs are well formed ; the genital organs (male) also. 50.41. Thoracopagus Tetrabrachius. Human. Hunterian. MM. 33. (Sternopage.) " Two children, about the seventh month appar- ently, growing together by the chest and abdomen." Not dissected,