866 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 52.31. Mixed Cholesterine Gall Stones. Hunterian. Two and a half calculi of similar composition, showing an unusually rough tuberculated exterior. Float high in water. (b) pearly faceted gall stones. These consist of a centre of bilirubin calcium mixed with cholesterine crystals and a shell of laminated pure cholesterine, which becomes beautifully faceted and polished from the stones occurring in large numbers, and being rubbed on one another, in the gall bladder. The structure and composition essentially the same as that of the calculi in the preceding class. See also Series 38, Nos. 15 and 16, the former of which is a gall bladder packed with calculi exactly similar to those forming this subsection. 52.32. Pearly Faceted Gall Stones. Hunterian. Eleven beautiful pearly faceted calculi of polygonal shapes, with sharply cut faces all about the same size, measuring about 1.5 mm. in the largest diameter, mounted in a glazed wooden show-case. Along with them is a letter addressed to "Dr. Hunter, Windmill Street, Piccadilly," giving the following account of them. " Mrs. Hawker, Whitechapel, was ill about six months—without any jaundice or symptoms of gall stones—aged about 44, gradually became hard and pained, and contracted on the right side of the abdomen. She consulted me, when I found her emaciated and extremely weak and contracted, and a great swelling with fluctuation. I advised that a surgeon should open it. Mr. Warner did. The discharge was prodigious. About four days after one gall stone worked out and lay upon the poultice; another some days after. About four months after—the sore still open—when she had walked too much she was in pain, put on a poultice, and in the morning seven of these stones lay upon the poultice. It healed and opened several times, especially upon taking cold." The calculi are of a clear pearly yellowish white colour; they are very light, floating high in water. They are all whole. For the internal structure of such calculi, see the succeeding specimen and No. 38.16. 52.33. Pearly Faceted Gall Stones. Hunterian. A boxful, about 130, of small calculi of very similar appearance to the preceding, but very much smaller. Their faces, from five to eight