*Y £2 ' S PATENT SMALL MINCER OR " MASTICATOR" For preparing Food for Invalids and Children. Similar in principle to our well-known sausage machines, but smaller and specially designed for mincing meat, vegetables, &c, for those who from loss of teeth or other causes, are unable to masti- cate properly ; and for preparing food for children. The food, whether cooked or uncooked, hot or cold, is rapidly and thoroughly minced ; and when re- quired, may be kept hot during the process by previously immersing the Machine in warm water. Highly recommended by Dr. Heron Watson and other eminent Physicians, PRICE :—Enamelled, £\ lOs. ; or tinned with pure ") Carriage tin, £2 2s. ; Silver plated, £10 lOs. j paid. CAUTION.—As spurious imitations with LEAD fittings, highly injurious to health, rcquently substituted for NYE'S, be sure to see that the name is on the machine • .iien not purchased direct from the Makers. The larger sizes are used in Hospitals, Unions, fn., all over the Kingdom. ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE of other patterns of Mincers from 8s. 6d. ; Coffee Wheat. 4c, Mills, Knife Cleaners, and other useful inventions, post free on application to S. NYE, 139, OXFORD STREET, LONDON, W. Nearly opposite Berners Street. Crown 8vo, 128 pages, price Is. THE SPAS OF WALES: their Medicinal and Cura- tive Properties, with Information as to Scenery, Golf, Fishing, Shooting, Lawn Tennis, Cycling, and Grneral Attractions at each of the Spas. By T. R. Roubkts. Introduction. CONTENTS. Builth Wells—The Glanr.e "Wells and the Tark "Wells (Saline, Sulphureous, and Chalybeate). King- Arthur's Well, Carnarvon {Chalybeate). Lilandrindod Wells (Saline, Sulphureous, and Chalybeate). Iilangrammarch Wells (Barium and Calcium Chlorides). Lilanwrtyd Wells (Sulphureous and Chalybeate). Trefriw Wells (Sulphate Chalybeate). Miscellaneous Springs. " No climate, no waters, no baths, no air can be obtained or enjoyed on the Continent for the ' cure' of any disease whatsoever—we say this advisedly—which cannot he obtained in as great, or even greater, effi- ciency within the limits of our own island."—Lancet. " I hose who have neither time nor money for adventures abroad in search of health . . . would be well advised to try . . . the spas ot Wales."—Speaker. " It is altogether a usi ful and convenient handbook, and gives practically all the information that intending visitors would need."—Dundee Courier. "Tbo handbook, without doubt, is a very valuable one, and will be widely read." Carnarvon and Denbigh Herald, LONDON: JOHN HOGG, 13, PATERNOSTER ROW, E.C.