FOR Prescribed and highly recommended by Doctors. Price, Weig-ht, and Value of other Foods. It contains all the nutriment necessary for the child, and supplies the (wheat) Phosphates required for the development of the bones and muscles. It is very easily digested, and its nourishing effect is quickly apparent, even in the most extreme cases. To expectant and nursing mothers it is invaluable, as it helps to replace the loss in the maternal system, and adds largely to the value of the milk as food It acts as a preservative, as the (wheat) Phosphates, which the aged so greatly need, invigorate and vitalise all the functions of the body. " FRAME FOOD" DIET is so easily assimilated that it throws little or no strain on weak digestions. Mr. ALF. W. STOKES, F.C.S., F.I.C., Public Analyst, in his analytic Report on "FRAME FOOD" DIET, says: "Its richness in Albuminoids and Phosphates, and its readiness of easy assimilation, re?ider it a valuable addition to our scanty stock of foods especially fittedfor the use of children and invalids, and of infants of delicate digestion." Sold in Tins, ilb. tg> i/-; 4I0S. @ 3/9; Jib. Sample free on receipt of 3d. to pay postage. INFANTS INVALIDS MOTHERS THE AGED "Frame Food" Jelly. NOURISHING as MALT EXTRACT; DELICIOUSas JAM. " FRAME FOOD "JELLY contains the Organic Phosphates and Albu- minoids (extracted fr»m Wheat Bran) which are so vitally neaessary for Devel- oping the Human Frame, and 10 in- vigorating and strengthening at every period of life. It possesses the nutri- tive and digestive properties of Malt Extract, and is much cheaper and more palatable. Children eat it readily on bread and butter or in puddings, and grow stout and strong when using it. It builds up the strength of the Invalid wasted by disease ; it keeps the athlete , in perfect condition; and adults find it invigorating and vitalizing to all the functions of the body. Sold in Air-tight Covered Jars of about Dr. NANSEN Sample 5-oz. Jar sent free on receipt of 3d. to pay postage. took with him on the " FRA/1" a supply of " Frame Food " Jelly. FRAME FOOD Co., Ltd., Lombard Road, Battersea, London, S.W.