stack ■ '-IV Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21461818_0001fjPEKCIVALL pott Efq (THE CHIRURGICAL WORKS 0 F PERCIVALL POrr, F.R.S. SURGEON TO ST;} BAjRT.HOLOft'IEW's HOSPITAL. ^ NEW EDITION, JVlfH HIS LAST CORRECTIONS. TO WHICH ARE ADDED A Short Account of the Life of the Author, A METHOD OP CURING THE HYDROCELE by INJECTION, AND , , OCCASIONAL NOTES and OBSERVATIONS. By JAMES EARLE, Efq. SURGEON EXTRAORDINARY TO HIS MAJESTY'S HOUSEHOLD, AND BURGEON TO ST. BARTHOLOMEW'S HOSPITAL. IN THREE VOLUMES, vol., T. A eertU pot'ms ct explorath pitendtim rffe pytcfuUum; id eft, hh quae Expcv'icnhnh: ipfis curationihus doaient; fiait in cat ens mnibus (trtiLus^: mm nc j^gricolam qiiidcm Wt Gubernaterem Dijputationc, fed UJu ferh A, ConN, Cei.sL-s, L Q N D O PRINTED FOR J, JOHNSON, G. G. J. AND J. RORINSON, T. CADELL, J. MURRAY, W.'FOX, J. BEW, S. HAYES, A M> W. LOWND^ls. M DCC XC.C ONTENTS O F V O L. I. Page ^ ^HORT Account of the Life of the Juthor — i Obfervations on the Nature and Confequences of thofe Injuries to which the Head is liable from external Violence — — ^ Wounds of the Scalp ■ — — ^ ibj^^ Effe£ls of Contufion on the Dura Mater, and Parts within the Scull — __ __ ot Contufion with Wound — yo, 81, 89 • without Wound — 66^ jr^^ Contufion joined with Extravafation — — Separation, or Dejiruaion of loth Tables of the Scull from Contufion — — 108 Fiffures and Fra£lures of the Cranium, without De- prejfon - _ 122 Simple Erasure — Praaures of the Cranium with Deprejfion _ igg Extravafation and Commotion Obfervations on that Diforder of the Eye, commonk"^ f^//<fi Fistula Lachrymalis ^ _ 271 GeneralC O N T E N T S. Page General Remarks on Fractures and Disloca- tions r- ^ —'349 Compound FraBures ^ ^ ^22 Of D'ljlocatiom in general -r^ — 45g CONTENTS of VOL. II. A Treai'ife on Ruptures — — g ^hofe capable of eafy and immediate RcduSiion •— 46 Thofe that are found irreducible, but not in a Sate of In- flammation 52 ^hofe which are reducible, but attended with Pain and Hazard ^ — — 64 'I'hofe which are in fuch a State as to be irreducible by the mere Hand, and in which a Chirurgical Operation is neceffary for the Prefervation of the Life of the Patient 78 Parts compofing a Rupture, when fo dlfeafed as to be unfit for immediate Redu£lion^ what then becomes neceffary 111 Ruptures in Females —• — — 129 The crural or femoral Hernia •— — I3f The congenial Hernia — — — ^3^ The umbilical Rupture — — — The ventral Hernia its'c. — — — ^53 Jttempts'toward a radical dure — ■—• 156 jTreatife on the Hydrocele, cr watery Rupture, and other Difeofes of the Testicle, its Coats andVcffeh 171 DifiinSiioTiCONTENTS. Page Dl/lin^ilon heiween triie andfalfe Hernia — 175 Of the Hydrocele in generdl — —> 178 Anatomical StruSiure of the Parts concerned — 186 Anafarcous Tumor of the Scrotum — — 207 DiJiinStion of the three Sorts of Hydrocele of the Cells of the Tunica Communis ~ —^ 223 TJje encyfled Hydrocele of the Tunica Communis —- 244. Hyrocele of the Tunica Vaginalis Tefiis — 262 Method of palliative Cure of the Hydrocele of the Tujiica Vaginalis Tejiis —■ —1 — Meant for a radical Cure of the Hydrocele of the Tunica Vaginalis — — - _ ^ir The Hcsmatoceki or Tumor from Blood — 344 Hydrocele in the Sac of a Hernia — —. 374 The Pneumatocele^ Varicocele, Circoceky the Sarcocele^ and the Hydro-farcocele — — —- 381 Tl]e Sarcoceki or difeafed Tejliclc — —* 388 CONTENTS of VOL. III. Account of the Method of obtaining a perfeSl or ra- dical Cure of the Hydrocele, by Means of a Seton — — J Radical Cure of the Hydrocele, by means of an In- jection, by the Editor — — 35 Of the Fistula in An'o —^ 71 The^iii Contents. Page The Forms under which it makes its Appearance^ ISc. ^c. 82 Habits mojl liable to the Diforder — . gg Manner of treating it in its different States and Circum- Jlances — . — —• — gcj Obfervations m Hjemorrhoidal Excrescences by the Editor — — — — 185 Remarks on the CatAB. ACT — 211 Remarks on the? OLYPVS of the "Nose 242 Cancer Scroti —• — —* 257 Obfervations and Cafes relative to Ruptures 263 Inte/iinal Hernia — —• — 296 Congenial Hernias — — 3' ^ Hernia Veftccs urinaria — — 346 Jn Ovarian Hernia —■ — — 35^ Obfervations on tk MORTIFICATION of the Ta^s and Feet — — ~ 355 Remarks on the Neceffuy and Propriety 0/AmPutatioN in certain Cafes — Zl ^ Remarks on the? alsy of the lower Limbs — 409 Farther Remarks on. the ufelefs . State of the loiver'Limbs, in confequence of a Curvature cf the Spine — 445 Account ^/ Tumours which rendered the BonEs fft 499 .General-Mm to.the-wholeH^ork — ^ ObservationsVol. I. A SHORT ACCOUNT O F T H E LIFE \ O F THE AUTHOR,A SHORT ACCOUNT, &c. The writings of Mr, Pott had been uni- verfally read, and many of his improvements in the practice of furgery had come into gene- * ral ufe, for feveral years before his death : moft of his opinions have already flood the teft of extenfive experience; and it is hardly to be doubted, that, whatever improvements may hereafter be made in this progreffiva art, his works will be efleerned as a valuable monument of genius and of Ikill, for the ■ times in which the author lived, to the latefl poflerity, A complete edition of thefe works, accom- panied with a fhort hiftorical account of the author, cannot, I think, at this time be un- ^ 2 acceptable( iv ) acceptable to the public. Works of a fcien^ tific nature are never known to he p.erfe£t while their author lives^ and their value ig leffened by the profped of alterations and amendments, which he maybe induced, from time to time, to make in them; but, inder pendent of the late event which has put a 4 period to the ufeful labours of Mr. Pott, an edition of his works is now abfolutely wanted, as few copies of them remain in the bpok- fellers' hands. The medical world will, no doubt, be difap- pointed to find, that little new, upon any chirurgical fubjed, was difcovered among the papers of an author, whofe pen was feldom long unemployed; this was not the effedl of accident, or of inattention, for the laft years pf Mr. Pott's life were not lefs induftrioufly fpent than the earlier part. Nor was the fpirit of inquiry or of emulation at all diminiflied by his advanced age, but of defign. He had given his friends every reafon to expe6l that no ma- Qufcript Avouldbe left; and often cenfur^d.( V ) ih ftrGng terms; the imprudence of authors leaving imperfe£l papers behind them, which- their relations feldom have difcretion or difm- tereftednefs enough to fupprefs. My conftant intercourfe with him, both on bufinefs and in his leifure-hours, gave me an opportunity of knowing his fentiments on fome fubje£ls Which had occurred fince his laft publication. Such of thefe as materially afFedl the doftrines. ke has deliveredj I have noticed in this edi- tion-, and have endeavoured to add to the ge- neral ufefulnefs of the work, as far as my" bther engagements would permit, without de- taining it too long from the prefs. With regard to the following narrative, my hear connexion with the family of Mr* Pott furniflies me with the mofi: authentic inform- ation concerning every tranfaclion of his life, which,can in any way intereft mankind, and has probably been the principal reafon which has induced many of my friends to urge me to ■undertake this publication; I am not infen- lible that the author of thefe volumes deferves a 3 a more( vi ) ■i more accomplifhed biographer, and that I can no further fulfil that office than in faith- fully and corre£tly detailing thofe materials of his hiftory for which I have the - beft authority. Percivall Pott was born on the 26th of December 1713, in that part of Thread- need le-ftreet which is now the fite of the new Bank-buildings. His father, whofe Chriftian name was Percivall, married the widow of Mr. Houblon, fon of Sir Jacob Houblon ; and, in 1717, left her again a wi- dow, and him, their only fon, with means vpry inadequate to theii" fupport. The de- ferted ftate of Mrs. Pott, joined with a deferv- ing^ character, and many excellent qualities, could not fail of engaging the attention of her friends, among whom was Dr. Wilcox, bifhop of Rochefter, her diftant relation, who took her fon under his immediate patronage. Thus fhe was enabled to purfue a plan for his edu- cation and future views in life, which were the principal objeds of her maternal folicitude. Mr.Mr. Pbti: returned her tender care with the iitmoft affeftioil. Indeed^ fo enthufiaftic was his love for his mother, fo great the obliga- tions which he always conceived he owed to her, and fo linirhpaired by time was his re- membrance of them, that, to the laft, he hever mentioned her^ but in terms expreffive bf fenfibility arid gratitude. When feVen yeai-s old, he was fent to a private fchool, at Darne in Kent, where the inftriidions, though very confined, were, to a mind of his quick conception, fufficient to iform an early tafte for claffical knowledge; Which, by his own affiduity, without further affiftance^ was afterwards improved to critical accuracy; Mr^ Pott fhewedi, very early, a ftrong prbpenfity to the profeffion of furgery. Some bf his beft friends recommended the church, in which he had no inconliderable profpe<f!ls of pref6rm^nt; but neither advice nor per- fuafioh could alter his fixed determination. He was accordin^y^ in 1729, bound an ap- a 4 prentice( Viii ) prentice to Mr. Nourfe, one of the furgeons of St. Bartholomew's hofpital. In this fitua- tion ^he had great opportunities of improve- ment, particularly with regard to anatomy, which was at that time Httle cultivated iri London. , Mr. Nourfe was one of the few who then gave anatomical Udures; his fchool was at London-hpufe,; in-.Alderfgate-ftreet; and Mr. Pott was employed in" preparing the f^bjeils for demonflration, which laid the foundation of his accurate acquaintance with that fcience, the bafis of chirurgic knowledge. In the hofpital he found unlimited opportuni- ties of ftndying the nature and Iprogrefs of difeafes, and of obf^rving pra(3:ical furgery.. At that time the art was miferably defec- tive; - the inilruments wer^e clumfy, and un- manageable ; the operations^ unfcientific, ■ and unneceflarily painful; the eljablifhed mode of pra£lice incumber64 with 4 farrago' of ufelefs medicines and applications,? tended rather to mislead than dire6l the' inquirer; prefcriptioii too frequently held th®' place. of reafon;. and want( ix ) want of real knowledge was concealed' under a pompous garb and fpecious demeanour. Though labouring under thefe difadvantages, his intuitive genius foon led him to difcrimi- nate between right and wrong, taught what to adopt, what to rejcd ; and enabled him af- terwards to break through the trammels of prejudice and cuftom. During his appren- ticelhip, his natural vivacity did not prevent the application of a very confiderable portion of his time to the ftudy of authors in every branch of furgery: very early in life, he adopted Lord Bacon's advice to a ftudent, to confider one part and one difeafe at a time, and to become thoroughly acquainted with that before he undertook another; on th^^plan, he never quitted the immediate objed of his in^ quiry, till he had traced it to every fource of information. Mr. Pott always profefled great value and refpea- for the early writers on the art, and perufed their voluminous works with o-reat diligence and fagacity. He frequently ob- lerved.(^) fervcd, that though no great advantage could be derived from them in tHe praftical part, yet whoever fliidied them would be amply repaid^ by their accurate defcriptiori of difeafes; whicH they pourtrayed from nature; But his' reading was not confined to profeffional books; it wag various and extenfive; and I think I may ven- ture to fay, that his memory never fufFcred any thing to efcape which he had once thought worthy a place in his mind. In 1736, at twenty-two years of age, hav- ing finifhed his apprenticefhip, he imme- diately applied himfelf to bufinefs. Confident in the fair profpefts of induflry^ he hired i iioufe, of confiderable rent, in Fenchurch- flreet, and took with him his mother, and her daughter by the firft hufband. Such a young man could not long remain unnoticed: the affiftance which is given at the entrance intd life, is mod valuable and mofl difintereftcd $ of this Mr. Pott was perfeftly fenfiblc, and always acknowledged with gratitude the obli- gations which he owed to the foflering fa- vourers( xi ) vourers of his youth. As the brilliancy of his talents brought his converfation into much requeft, his connexions were foon univerfally extended. Befides the families to which his profeffion introduced him, he became ac- quainted with moft of his cotemporaries of riling and eminent abilities in every profeffion,. The early friendfhips which he formed were permanent; and it may truly be aflerted, that few men have acquired and retained through life more firm or more refpedable friends. In 1744-5, he was ele£led an affiftant-fur- gcon, and in 1749 he' was appointed one of the principal furgeons of St. Bartholomew's holpital. He had now before him fufficient fcope for the exercife of thofe abilities by which mankind have fince been fo much benefited. The ftate of furgery was ftill very imperfefb ; notwithftanding fome fenfible and ingenious men, both in this country and in France, had publifhed obfervations which had enlightened and improved it, fliU the maxim, " Dolor medccina doloris," remained unrefuted; the( xli ) the feverc treatment of the old fchool, in the operative part and in the applications, conti- nued in force ; the firil: principles of furgery^ the natural procefs and powers of hfealing were either not underftood or not attended to; painful and efcharotic dreffings were eonti-i, nually employed, and the a£tual cautery was in fuch frequent ufe, that, at the times when the furgeons viiited the hofpital, it was regu-. larly heated and prepared as a part of the ne- ceflary apparatus. In the works of feveral authors, who flourifhed in the early part of our author's life, we have contrivances for improving thefe dreadful inftruments. Mn Pott's tutor rigidly adhered to the eftablifhed" pradice, and treated with fupercilious cqn^ tempt the endeavours of his pupil to recom-^ mend a milder fyftem. But the didatcs of truth foon found a welcome reception with- the profelTion, and with the world in gene-^ ral. Mr. Pott lived to fee thefe remains of barbarifm fet afide, and a more humane and rational plan, of which he was the chief au- thor,( xili ) thor, univerfally adopted. Surgery beln^ thus divefted of great part of its horrors, be- came, comparatively, a pleafing ftudy; for, except on thofe unfortunate occafions, when the humane feehngs of the pra£litioner muft fuffer, from the unavoidable neceffity of giv-- ing pain, the aim and end of the healing art are furely pleafing. To poffefs the power as well as the inclination to relieve diftrefs, to foften anguifh, and in fome meafure to break the force of thofe accidents and misfortunes, to which mankind are always liable, muft afford, to every feeling mind, the greateft and moft iincere pleafure which it is capable of enjoying. Mr. Pott's afFe£lion for his mother pre-^ vented him from forming ^ny attachment during her life, which might feparate him from her. In 1746, being, to his forrow, releafed from this fihal engagement, he re- moved to Bow-lane, and married the daughter of Robert Cruttenden, Efq.; a lady of whom every thing commendable might juftly be faid,( xiv ) faid, and who, in mental and perfonal accom- plifhments, was formed to be his companion. In the year 1756, an accident befell Mr. pott; which, though of little confequence in itfelf, yet, as it difplays the vigour and firm- nefs of his mind, and feems to have had con- lideratjle influence on his future life, deferves to be recorded in this place:—rAs he was riding, in Kent-ftreet, Southwark, be was thrown from his horfe, and fufFered a com- pound fra£lure of the leg, the bone being forced through the integuments, Confcious of the dangers attendant on fra£lures of this nature, and thoroughly aware how much they may be increafed by rough treatment, or im- proper pofition, he would not fufFcr himfelf to be moved until he had made the neceflary difpofitions. He fent to Weftminfter, thei; the neareft place, for two chairmen, to bring their poles; and patiently lay on the cold pavement, it being the middle of January, till |:hey arrived. In this fituation he purchafed « a door.C XV ) p door, to which he made them nail their poles. When all was ready^ he paufed him- felf to be laid on it, and was carried through Southwark, over London-bridge, to Wat- ling-ftreet, near St. Paul's, where he had Jived for fome time-—A tremendous diftance jn fuch a ftate! I cannot forbear remarking, that on fuch occafions a coach is too frequently employed, the jolting motion of which, with ^he unavoidable aukwardnefs of pofition, and the difficulty of getting in and out, caufe a great, an4 often a fatal aggravation of the mifchief. At a confultation of furgeons, the cafe was thought fo defperafe as to require immediate amputation. Mr. Pott, convinced that no one could be a proper judge in his own cafe, fubmittpd to their opinion; and the in- ftruments were a£lually got ready, when Mr. Nourfe, who had been prevented from com- pg fooner, fortunately entered the room. After examining the limb, he conceived there was a pofTibility of preferving it; an attempt to^ave it was acquiefced in, and fucceeded. This( xvi ) , This cafe, which Mr. Pott fometimes re- ferred to, was a ftrong inftance of the great advantage of preventing the iniinuation of air into the wound of a compound fradlure; and it probably would not have ended fo happily, if the bone had not rnade itg ejcit, or external opening, at a diftance from the fracture; fo that, when it was returned into the proper place, a fort of valve was formed, which ex^ eluded air. Thus no bad fymptom enfued, but the wound healed, in fome meafure, by the firft intention.—The appearance of Mr. Pott as an author was an iiTimediate effect of this accident \ During the leifure of his ne- celfary confinement, he planned, and partly executed his treatife upon ruptures, which was completed by the latter end of the year. It w^s then not an early period of his life ; » I do not find that Mr. Pott had written any thing previous to this, except the relation of a curious cafe of tumors,, by >vhicli the bones were fpftened. This was prefented to the Royal Society foqn after he began bufinefs, and may be found in the 2d part of the 41ft volume of the PhUofophical Tranf- aftions. ^^^^( ^vii ) nnd it is poffible, that the bufy fcene in which he had hitherto been engaged, might have occupied his mind much longer. As he had been thus led on to the age of forty-three, it is by no means impoffible that, without fome powerful check to the train of his purfuits, he might never have difcovered in himfelf thofe fuperior powers of fcientifical difquifi- tion, that corre£l tafte and'mafterly command of language, which have placed him in the firft rank of medical writers. Engaged, from DO ' early youth, in the conftant tranfadion of bufinefs, he probably till this period had in- dulged but little in the pleafures of fpeculative inveftigation, but was never afterwards lono- unemployed in fome literary work. Indeed, the flattering reception of his publications, and the gratification of communicating to the world fcientifical improvements, would have been fufficient to confirm a mind, lefs ambi- tious of fame than his, in the habits of an author. Vol. T. b In( xviii ) In 1757 he wrote an account of the Her- nia Congenita, a complaint not then well un- derftood» Dr. William Hunter, the cele- brated anatomift, who was engaged in the fame purfuit, inferted a paper in the Medical Commentaries, claiming a priority in the dif- covery. But I do not mean to enter into the merits of a difpute which, though at that time it causfht the attention of the medical world, is now nearly forgotten. Mr. Pott's reply was inferted in the fecond edition of his treatife on ruptures, and is written with elegance and urbanity. His obfervations on the diforder of the cor- ner of the eye, commonly called Fiftula La- chrymalis, appeared in 1758. This fenfible,. well written performance on a complaint which frequently occurs, has, both in mat- ter and manner, confiderable merit. In it he explains the fituation, d&fcribes the various appearances of the difeafe, arid fimpUfies the method of oure; his arguments were the principal( xlx ) principal caiife of difcontinuing the operation by tiie actual cautery, which was pradifed- and recommended by Mr. Cheffelden, who fiouriflied in the early part of our author's life. In 1760 was produced his elaborate per- formance on the nature and confeqtiences of wounds and contufions of the head, fraclures of the fcull, Goncuffions of the brain, &c. in which, with a perfpicuity till then unknown, he feparates and arranges the fymptoms of each particular fpecies of injury, unfolds the caufes and fttuation of mifchief, and points out the moft probable means of rehef. In 1762 he publifhed Pradical Remarks on the Hydrocele, and fome other difeafes of tlie teftis, its coats and veffels, illuftrated with cafes ; being a fupplement to his gene- ral Treatife on Ruptures. In 1764 he had the honour to be elected a Fellow of the Royal Society; at the fame- time, he prefented them with a curious and uncommon cafe of a hernia of the urinary b 2 bladder.( XX ) bladder, including a ftone, which is Inferted in the Philofophical Tranfaftions, Vol. LIV. As the adivity of Mr. Pott's mind was equal to his zeal for the advancement of the art, whatever fubjecl appeared to him to have been lead confidered, or moft defectively treated by others, immediately became the objeCt of his refearches, and engaged his par- ticular attention. The Fiftula in Ano next at- trafted his notice. The nature of this complaint had been much miftaken, and the operations for its relief were confequently injudicious, hor- ridly fevere, and deftrudive of the parts they were intended to relieve. In 1765 he pub- lifhed a treatife on this fubjed. His method of reafoning on it is clear, ingenious, and conclufive; but they only can be judges of this ineftimable work who have compared the fimple operation which it recommends with thofe ufually praclifed in fimilar cafes in this kingdom, until the latter part of Mr. Pott's life, and even at the prefent time in other countries. The( xxi ) The obfervations and inflrnftlons which thus flowed from his ready pen, were enforced by his pra£lice, and illuftrated by oral com- iminication; and he was happy to embrace every opportunity which his fituation gave him, of conveying the information he had colledled to thofe who had not the fame means of acquiring it. The humane and benevolent difpofition of * the people of this country is eminently dif- played in the many charitable inftitutions which abound for the relief and protedlion of the poor, and in the ample fupport^of them. The beneficial influence of hofpitals is not fhut up within their walls, nor confined to the obje£ts who are there relieved ; the bleff- ings which are there diftributed revert to theii opulent and noble fupporters, and- are ex- tended to all ranks and conditions of men, by the improvements which the medical art re- ceives from the ftudents who frequent them. In a large hofpital there muft be opportunities of feeing the greateft poflible variety of dil- b 3 cafes,( s?xu ) cafes, fuch as are either produced or increafed by iiisgligence and intemperance, added to thofe which are met with among the more prudent and better informed part of mankind. In (hort, all the multiform deviations from health and natural perfeftion are there, as in one large volume, collected and difplayed. Of the advantas;es arifinsi; from fuch a coUec- tion, no perfon could be more fenfible than Mr. Pott; but he alfo judicioufly remarked, that young men often flood in need of an in- dex to point out to them the proper objeds for their attention and inquiry. To fupply the deficiency, about this time he inflituted a courfe of le6lures, the firft of which was given at his houfe in Wathncr-ftreet. He had not then digefted and arranged his ideas, but fpoke, as, I well renaember, with hefitation and referve: yet even thefc his firft effays bore ftrong marks of his comprehenfive and penetrative mind. In a few courfes he over- came all obftacles, and communicated his thoughts with eloquence and cafe. He was - not( xxlii ) not fatisfied with following any fyftem which had been laid down by others, as he thought they in general dwelt too much on the oper- ative part, which, though very important, is by no means the mofl difficult part of fur- gery, nor the moft worthy of attention. The means of preventing the neceflity of oper- ations, he obferved, Ihould be the firfl confi- deration ; he therefore formed a plan of his own, the beft, perhaps, which could be de- vifed. He began with fuch general diforders as may afFedl any part of the human frame, and afterwards proceeded to confider the dif- eafes of each part diftindlly, beginning with the head, and defcending to the inferior members. He took great pains on every point; and, having the art of being minute without tedioufnefs, demonftrated it with clearnefs and precihon. His manner gav^ importance to every fubjeft, and imprefled his audience with the idea, that the art which he taught was worthy of their higheft ambi- b 4 tion.( xxiv ) tion. He not only explained the beft modern pradice with his own obfervations, but ren- dered the le£lure ftill more curious and inter- efling, by a review of the pra£lice of the an- cients, and of the gradual progrefs of im- provement which had taken place. This his extenfive perufal of authors of all ages had made eafy to him ; for there was no time of his life when he thought fo highly of himfelf as to imagine that he could receive no light from books. He often faid, he began to teach when he had much to learn ; and, as he was not a(!luated by that opinionative wif- dom which fometimes attends advanced life, after all his ftudy and experience he confefled, that he ftill retained a long lift of inquirenda. His lectures were conftantly attended by a numerous fucceffion of pupils, and have been the means of very extenfively diffeminating much ufeful knowledge. In 1768 he produced a new edition of bis book on the Injuries to which the Head is ^ liable( XXV ) liable from External Violence, accompanied with what is entitled A Few General Re- marks, but which is really a complete fyftem on fra6lures and diflocations. This, I have been informed, he began and completed in a fortnight. The novelty of the doflrine con- tained in this treatife relates principally to the pofition of the injured limb. On its publica- tion it met with fome oppofition, but has now fubdued the firfl prejudices; and I believe I may venture to fay, is become almofl the uni- verfal praclice. The' frequent avocations of Mr. Pott to- wards the weft end of the town, where the buildings had prodigioufly increafed fince he began life, making a more central fituation neceflary, in 1769 he purchafed a houfe near Lincoln's-inn Fields, and refided in it feven years, during which time his pen was not inadive. The hydrocele again employed his thoughts. In 1772 he fent to the prefs his improved method of paffing the feton, fo as not to rub or injure the gland in its paffage. Mr.( xxvi ) Mr. Pott took great pains with this fub- jed, and never was perfeftly fatisfied with what he had done in it. Various other me- thods have been employed for the cure of this complaint, and pradlitioners are flill divided between them. I muft confefs that the curative intention does not feem well an- fwered by either of them; they all appear to me to raife more inflammation, and to derange the economy of thofe tender and fenfible parts more than is neceffary. I^havepropofed another, which anfwers the purpofe in a milder and better manner than any I have yet feen; and I feel a fatisfadion in faying, that it met with Mr. Pott's approbation. One of our laft con- verfations was on this fubjed ; and, if his Kfe had been prolonged, it was his intention to have pra£lifed it ^. In 1775 he publiflied Chirurgical Obferv- ations relative to the cataradl, the polypus of the nofe, the cancer of the fcrotum, the dif- ferent kinds of ruptures, and the mortifi- " Vide Vol. nr. cation( xxvit ) cation of the toes and feet, which were va- luable additions to his former publications, and were marked with that fpirit of obferv- ation, perfpicuity of reafoning, and candour in difcuffing controverted points, which dif- tinguifli his other productions. In 1777 he removed to Hanover-fquare. Here, at an age when moll: men begin to think of eafe and retirement, his aflive mind led him into a fcene more bufy and extenfive than ever. Sir Casfar Hawkins, who had long been employed in many of the firft fa- milies, retired from London, which made no inconfiderable addition to Mr. Pott's former connexions. But, though engaged in bufinefs by day, and occupied at home in the evening, in anfwerins; letters addreffed to him from all parts of Europe, I might fay of the world, having feen letters in which he was confulted on cafes from Ruffia, Turkey, and India, as well as from our neighbouring kingdoms, he contrived to find time to add to his former works a treatifc on the ncceflity of amputa- tion( xxviii ) tion in certain cafes, in which he argues flrongly in favour of truth and humanity, and clearly proves the re£litude of the principles which he has laid down. This feems prin- cipally to have been written in anfwer to Mr. Bilguer, furgeon to the army of the late king of PrufTia, M^ho had publifhed i^gainft the neceffity of amputating in almoft any cafe, The title of his book is " De Membrorum Amputatione rariffime adminiftranda, aut quafi abrogandaj;'* and alfo, in reply to his commentator, Mr.'Tiffot, who wrote a trea- tife, " Sur I'inutilite de Tamputation des " Membres,'* in which he goes even beyond his original, and abfolutely fets afide the oper- ation as nfelefs; he fpeaks of it in the moft opprobrious terms ; he is fliocked at the hor- ror of it; exhorts furgeons to abandon the murderous and cruel method of amputation, with many other exprelfions equally milap- plied. Such futile and abfurd imputations can never confute what reafon and experience have joined to demonftrate, that many lives have( xxix ) have been faved by the operation, w^hich would other wife have been infaUibly loft. However, as we miifl: fuppofe that the doc^ trine which thefe gentlemen have promul- gated arofe from humane motives, and upon a convi£lion that it is well founded, we mufl: at leaft applaud their intention, though we cannot approve their judgment. But if it were polfible that any man could , be found capable of writing in defence and fupport of the unfeeling doctrine, that mutilated men are a burthen to the ftate, fuch a work would deferve to be reprobated, and the author's name to be configned to the deteftation of pofterity. In 1779 Mr. Pott publifhed his Remarks on that kind of palfy of the limbs which is frequently found to accompany a particular curvature of the fpine. He introduced his firft treatife on this fubject with doubts and furmifes, having juft drawn the outline; but, finding his opinion confirmed by experience, he with confidence produced his further re- marks on this difeafe, in 1783, in which he ' gives( XXX ) gives a complete defcription of the complaint, fo little underflood before, that thofe who fufFered under it were configned to their fate, which ufually led to inaftivity, deformity, and death. In this valuable tra£l he lays down a very accurate difcrimination of this from every other fpecies of paralylis, and propofes a new and moft efficacious method of flopping its progrefs, and curing it. This was the laft of his literary produc- tions! : the mode of cure which he recom- mends in it he afterwards applied to difeafes of the hip-joint, with confiderable fuccefs. If his life had fortunately been prolonged, it was his intention to pubhfh his opinions on this fubjea. At the fame time, I have great reafon to think he would have added an ac- count of thofe very painful excrefcences which are frequently the confequence of long-ne- o-lefted piles. He had been remarkably fuc- cefsful in the treatment of this afflicting com- plaint, and thought the difeafe itfelf not fuffi- ciently underftood, nor the mode by which he fucceeded commonly pradifed ; but, as it wasj[ xxxi ) was not his cuftom to begin to write on any fubjed till he was pref)ared to finifh it, it is to be lamented that his ideas on thefe and feme other important points were not com- mitted to paper. As Mr. Pott conceived thefe fubjedts to be of ib much importance, I can- not pafs them over in filence, though I much regret that they have not been laid before the public in his comprehenfive mannef ^ The time now began to approach when Mr. Pott may be faid to have attained the fummit of that eminence which he owed to himfelf alone. Though unadorned with any honorary difi:in6tion in the profeffion, he was- fought after and employed by perfons in the firft degree of rank and power; and though he folicited neither honours nor favours for himfelf, he often fuccefsfully employed his influence on behalf of others. He was uni-. verfally confulted; praditioners referred' to him in cafes of uncommon difficulty and dan- ger, as their laft refource; his extenfive ex- <■ Vide Vol. III. perience,( xxxii ■) perience^ and his ready application of it, rcti-' dered that eafy to him, which, to moft other men, would have been a painful pre-emi- nence. The Royal College of Surgeons in Edii>- burgh were not inattentive to his deferts. In 1786 he received a diploma, accompanied by a letter expreffive of the fenfe they enter- tained of them: the value of the honour was greatly enhanced by his being the firft perfon on whom they had thought proper to be* flow it. (COPY.) " SIR, Edinhurgh, Aug. i, 1786. " It is with peculiar pleafure I obey the commands of the Royal College of Surgeons in accjuainting you, that they have this day unanimoufly elefted you an Honorary Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh, a compliment which they think your very diftinguiflied merit juftly entitled to. « May I add, as an additional mark of the College's refpeft, that you are the firft Gentleman of the Faculty they have thought proper to beftow the honour on. " I have the honour to be, &:c. « THOMAS HAY, Prerident." In( xxxiii ) In the following year the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland prefented him with their freedom, in a filver box. In July 1787 he refigned the office of Sur- geon to St. Bartholomew's hofpital, after hav- ing ferved it, as he ufed to fay, man and boy, half a century. On the day of his refignation, the annual meeting of the governors was held, and they dined in the great room of the hof- CC p p Y.) HONORARY DIPLOMA. Vcted ts Percivall Pott, Efq. Sept.<gth, 1787, 6j the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland. Whereas it has appeared to us, in full College duly aflem- blcd, that Percivall Pott, Efq. has eminently diftinguifhed himfelf in the fcience of furgery; now, we being defirous to manifeft our approbation of confpicuous merit, do, by virtue of the powers vefled in us by his majefty's royal charter, by thefe prefents, eleft, conllitute, and appoint, the faid P. Pott an honorary member of this college, with all the privileges, dig- nities, and immunities thereunto annexed. (Signed) J. WHITE WAY, Prefident. ^ pital;( xxxiv ) pital; when he was about to retire, the Right Honourable Thomas Harley, prefident, pro- pofed a health to Mr. Pott, with many thanks' for his long/able, and faithful fervices to that houfe ; which was received with reiter- ated burfts of applaufe. Mr. Pott's ufual readinefs forfook him on this trying occafion : after repeatedly rifing to thank the affembly for the comphment they had paid him, he felt himfelf obliged to fit down in filence.. His refolution and prefence of mind, though' not eafily overcome, v/ere not proof againft the powerful emotions excited by this public and unexpeded teftimony of his having afted well, and filled an important ftation to the advantage of mankind. It is poffible that forae of the greatefl bleff- ings we enjoy may, by a fortuitous concaten- ation of events, tend to fhorten their own exiftence. Thus it feemed in the cafe of Mr. Pott, whofe remarkable temperance had en- fured him fo long a continuance of health and fpirits, that he was deceived in himfelf. Had ^ 'he( XXXV ) he been fubjed to fome of the infirmities which ufually attend people of his age, as he muft neceffarilj have paid more attention to his general health, his days might poffibly have been prolonged. Though he was free from any particular complaint, and his con- ftitution was found, flill it fuflained the weight of more than threefcore years an^l ten; to this his mind, bufy and chearfui as ever, would not permit him to advert. It is painful to relate, that, in the full poffeffion of his faculties, with a frame of body appa- rently calculated tojafl much longer, he fell a facrifice - to :his.'Own adive. difpofition, and inattention to the fiffl attack of his diforder. On Thuffday, nth December 1788, he went, in very fevere weather, to vifit a pa- tient about .twenty miles from London ; when he returned, he complained that he had caught cold. " The next day he lay in " bed, a circumftance very uncommon to. him,-; the following day, thinking- himfelf bettej?, he would not. fubmit to the regimen which c ^ had( xxxvi ) ^ had been recommended, but went otit as iTfual; the day after (Sunday, the i4tb) the cold was remarkably intenfe, and it being jieceffary to repeat the vifit in the country, 1 was happy to fave him fo inclement a Jour- ney; but, at my return, was informed that ■iie had been a round of vifits in town, and was juft got home, perceiving himfelf unable to complete his lift. A (hivering foon feized him, and he went to bed ; a fever fucceeded, and before night he grew delirious. He paffed areat part of the night in this ftate : the next horning, on my aiking how he found him- felf, after a fhort apparent ftruggle for recol- leaion, the words of his anfwer precifely were; " My mind has great propenfity to - aberration; and I find myfelf much in- - clined to talk nonfenle, unlefs I ftudioufly " colled my thoughts, and fix them."- Through the whole of his iUnefs, during the intervals of reafon, his obfervations on niany fubjeds were remarkably fenfible and pointed; and he feemed particularly attentive 5( xxxvii ) to corredlnefs in his language. The defcrip- tion of the feat of the pain he felt was anato- mical I j exa6l. He did not appear to doubt of his recovery during feveral days, though the fever continued, with unremitting violence, in oppofition to the beft medical affiftance, being attended, with the moft affeaionate affiduity, by Dr. Heberden, Dr. Millman, and Dr. Auftin. His head became rather more clear as the diforder advanced, and he feemed more fenfible of his danger; on the feventh day he obferved, " My lamp is almoft extin- guifhedj I hope it has burned for the bene- ' " fit of others." On the following day, the 2 2d pf December, he expired. His remains were attended by many of his relations and friends to Aldermary church in Bow-lane, where they were depofited near thofe of his beloved mother. On a marble tablet affixed to the wall is^ the following infcription, by his fon the Reverend Jofeph Holden Pott, A. M, Arch- deacon of St. Alban's, &c. 2 hi( xxxviii ) In Memory Of PERCIVALL POTT, Efq. F. R. S. Surgeon of St, Bartholomew's Hofpltal during Forty-two Years, Who depaited this Life, December zad, 1788, aged 75. He was .Singularly eminent in his Profeflion, To which he added many new Refources, and which he Uluftrated With matchlefs Writings. Let Pofterity revolve the Sum of his Expe.ience,^ That the World may ftlU enjoy the Benefit of his Succefsful Praftice. He honoured the colleftive Wifdom of patt Ages: The Labours of the Ancients were familiar to him: He fcorned to teach a ^cience of which he had not traced the growth j He rofe, therefore, from the Form to the Chair. Learn, Reader, that the painful Scholar can alone become The Faithful Teacher, But his Studies had a double Iffue: Whilft he gathered the Knowledge of his Predeceflbrs, He perceived their Errors,' and correfted them; He difcovered their Defers, and fupplied them, original in Genius, prompt in Judgment, rapid in Decif.on, He direfted Knowledge to its properTnds; But purfued them when the Aids of Information were exhaufted, , The laft Steps, therefore, and great Improvements, Were lus own. His Integrity is before his Judge; Without it, his Skill might have profited Manlund . ;p,t could have claimed no Record within tl.cfe Walls. His private Virtues, His fignal Tendernefs to his -Family, Completed an Example, Amiable, Ufeful, Great.( xxxix ) T ' i The genius of Mr. Pott, however affifted by art, was certainly of the firft order by nature, as appears by the variety and per- fection of his attainments. He was the moft eminent of his time as a writer, as a teacher, and as a practitioner in furgery; and his me- rits in each of thefe characters were moft extenfive. PofTeffed with an enthufiaftic love of excelling, without which genius is inert, ,he was not contented with any kind of rnedio-^ crity in himfelf. As an author, his language is corrcCt, .ftrong, and animated. There are few in- jftances, if any, of fuch claffical elegauccj united with fo much profound fcientifical acutenefs. In his furgical inquiries he ftu- ^^joufly avoided reference to obfcure and ge- neral( ) neral principles; he preferred reafoning by analogy and indu£tion from eftablilhed fa6ls ; a method certainly more fafe and more ac- commodated to the prefent ftate of phyliolo- gical knowledge. He introduces anatomy and phyfiology, whenever it is neceffary, to illuftrate and diflinguifh difeafes; but never confufes his reader with uncertain hypothefes in pathology founded on phyliological prin-* ciples. He was of opinion, and it is the opinion of Newton, that hypothcfis has no place in any phyfical fcience. To place the difeafe in a diflina point of view ; to demon- ftrate wherein it confifted, and the changes which muft be efFeaed to remove it; to point out the remedies which would moft fafely and certainly produce thofe changes, were the objeas to which he direaed his whole ^ttehtion. His remedies always ftrongly mark-ed his'intention ; they were decided and confident; and he was the principal author of that fimplicity which diftinguifhes the pre- fent praaice from that of ow anceftors. With thefe( ) thefe views he applied himrelf to every part of the furgical art, and improved both the pathology and cure of many difeafes. His treatment of fiftulous fores, and his hiftory and cure of the caries of the Corpora verte* brarum, were perhaps his greateft works; but his improvements, as we have feen^ ex- tended to many other fubjedls ; and his re- fearches introduced fuch novelties in the praC*- tice of furgery, that his life muft ever be confidered as a great epoch in the hiftory of that art. As a teacher, he had acquired the faculty of fpeaking readily, with great point and energy, of delivering the moft prolix and intricate fentences with incredible perfpicuity ^nd cor- re£lnefs, and of enforcing what he faid with, a moft harmonious and expreffive elocution. He allowed no excufe for defeds in himfelf; he always avowed that excellent maxim, *' Cui ledia potenter erit res, nec facundia ♦* deferet hunc, nec lucidus Ordo.'* As a practitioner in furgery, we muft apply'( i^lii ) •japplj to him' all ^thip ;effential qualifications, found judgment, cool determination, and ;great manual dexterity. He had feen much -ofpradice, and what he had feen he had di- .gefted, by reading, writing, and leauring on thofe fubjeds. In the tranfaaion of bufmefs there was a .freedom and opennefs in his manner, which evidently arofe from a confcioufnefs that the opinion which he delivered was founded on experience. In every inftance he fhunned af- feaation and fmgularity; and his condua in all fituations was an appeal to the good fenfe of mankind. Thus he acquired the univerfal confidence of the profeifion; and, without .^ny accidental o,r external help, he railed •himfelf to the greateft dignity which man can .attain,—the firft rank in a liberal pfofeffion.. Domestic virtues make no great figure In hiftory; yet the domeftic virtues of ^Iftin^ o;ui(hed( xliii ) guilhed men flioiild not be forgotten, beeaufc they promote the caufeof virtue; befides, great and amiable qualities refleft luftre on each other. The ambition, the induftry, and enterprife of Mr. Pott, did at no time interfere with the . duties of a hufband and a father: though his ready wit and brilliant converfation, abounding with interefting anecdotes of his own obferv- ation, and with happy quotations from mo- dern and ancient authors, rendered jhim a confpicuous charafter in all parties, he was moft happy, and not lefs to be admired in the circle of his family. In their fociety he fpent much the greater part of his leifure hours, and in fuch a manner as to be the objedt of the utmoft afFedion and veneration to a numerous offspring of children and grand- children. The perfon of Mr. Pott was elegant^ -though lower than the middle fi2;e; his coun- • tenance-animated and expreffive; his manners ^nd deportment were graceful; and his re^ i. markablQ( xliv ) markable vigour afid adivity feemed una- bated by age. The labours of the greateft part of his life were without relaxation; an increafuig fa- mily required his utmoft exertion: of late years he had a villa at Neafden; and in the autumn ufually paffed a month at Bath, or at the fea fide. Thus, though he gathered, as he expreffed it, fome of the fruit of the garden which he had planted as he went along, and always lived in a generous and hofpitable manner, at the fame time beftowing on four fons and four daughters a liberal and tieceffarily expenfive education, and applying large fums to their eftablifhment during his life-time, he left an ample provifion for them at his deceafe. Among his papers was found, what he had often mentioned, a fmall box, containing a few pieces of money*, being the whole which he ever received from the wreck :,qf his father's fortune. With this was de- •» Under 5U pofited( xlv ) . pofited an exaa account of every individual fee which a long Ufe of bufuiefs had pro- duced—abundant evidence of well-fpent time, and the induftrious appUcation of abiUties, to which the res angufia domi^ at the commence- ment, probably afted more powerfully as an incentive than as an obftacle. J.E. HANOVER-SqUART, March ao, 1790. OBSERVATIONSOBSERVATIONS Vol. I. B ON T H I NATURE AND CONSEQUENCES or T H o s X INJURIES To WHICH THE HEAD IS LIABLE FROM E^XTERNAL VIOLENCE.OBSERVATIONS, &c. SEC T. I. WOUNDS OF THE SCALP. Previous to an account of fuch wounds and injuries of the head as intereft the fcuU, the brain, and its membranes, it may not be amifs to take fome fmall notice of thofe to which the fcalp is hable. This, though it be called the common tegument of the head, yet, from the variety of parts of which it isi compofed, from their ftrudure, connexions, and ufes, injuries done to it, by external violence, become of much more confequence . than the fame kind of ills can prove when inflifted on the common teguments of the reft of the body. The covering, called the fcalp, confifts of the cutis, the membrana adipofa, or cellularis, B 2 the4 INJURIES OF THE HEAD the expanded tendons of the frontal, occipital, and temporal mufcles, (forming a kind of aponeurofis) and the membrane which imme- diately covers the bones of the fcull, called therefore the pericranium. This variety, of parts, upon the infli£lion of wounds, blows, &c. frequently occafions a variety of fymptoms; which fymptoms ought by pra<5titioners to be carefully and. pro- perly diftinguifhed from each other; not only becaufe they often arife from the diftina, and particular nature, of the part injured, but becaufe they generally point out the moft effedual means of relief. If to thefe confider- ations we add another, no lefs true, and im- portant, (viz.) that there is and muft be a conftant communication, by means of blood- veffels, between all the parts without and within the head, it, will appear, that injuries done to this part, though feemingly, and at ^firft fight, flight and trivial, may fometmies prove of the greateft confequence. I will not wafte the reader's time, by en- tering into a detail of the method of treating common incifed wounds ; but proceed imme- diately to thofe which, (though the mifchief is orio-inally confined to the mere Icalp,) yet areFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 5 Jire frequently very terrible to behold, are often attended with alarming fymptoms, and fometimes with danger. Thefe are what are called lacerated wounds, and thofe made by punaure. The former may be reduced to two kinds, (viz.) thofe in which the' fcalp, though torn, or unequally divided. Ml keeps its natural fituations and is not ftripped or fe- parated from the cranium, to any confiderable diftance beyond the breadth of the wound ; and thofe, in which it is confiderably detached from the parts it ought to cover. The firft of thefe, - if fimple, and not com- bined with the fymptoms or appearances of any other mifchief, do not require any parti- cular, or different treatment, from what the fame kind of wounds require on all other parts; but the latter, (thofe in which the fcalp is fepa- rated and detached from the parts.it ought to cover,) are not only, by the differen^t me- thods in which they maybe treated, frequently capable of being cured with a confiderable deal more or lefs eafe and expedition, but are alfo fometimes a matter of great confequence to the health and well-being of the patient. Both writers and praditioners differ much, in their advice and condud on this fubjea. With ^ 3 fome6 INJURIES OF THE HEAD fome it is a practice, immediately to remove fuch portion of the fcalp as is fairly and per- fectly detached from the parts underneath ; with others, to attempt its prefervation. Each of thefe opinions can be confidered in a general fenfe only, not as applicable to every individual cafe without diftindion; and taken in fuch general confideration, they cannot be both right. It may therefore be worth while to inquire, what reafons each party has to give for its opinion and condu6t. .They whoadvife the removal, affirm, that when a large portion of the fcalp has been perfeaiy and totally feparated from the parts it ought to cover, and that for fome confider- able fpace, it will not again coalefce or unite with fuch parts; and therefore that an at- tempt to procure fuch union, by replacing the feparated piece, will only protrad the time of cure, by furnifliing a lodgment for matter and Houghs, which matter and floughs muft prevent the thing intended. That in cafe of large wounds,, or of thofe produced by great force, as we cannot by any means be abfolutely certain that no mifchief is done to the parts under the cranium, the replacing the lacerated fcalp may not only prevent our immediate inquiry into the nature of fuch mifchief,FROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE, 7 mifchief, but may conceal and hide (at leaft for a time) fuch future appearances as might furnifh indications for a furgeon's conduft. They who advife the prefervation of the feparated fcalpj^* do it upon a fuppofition, that it will in general unite again ; that if it does, the patient may thereby be fpared a great deal of pain, fave much time, and fuftain much lefs deformity; that with regard to the im- mediate inquiry into the ftate of the cra- nium, it may be made before the fcalp is replaced; that if there be no prefent fymptoms which indicate injury done to the parts underneath, it would be abfurd to ad merely upon the prefumption that there may be fome in future ; that it will be more pro- per and vindicable to do what is right at firft, or according to the prefent circumftance, and to attend to what may happen or occur here- after, when fuch occurrences have happened; and that the formation of matter and flouo-hs. under the detached and replaced portion will not, in general, under proper management, prevent its re-union. It IS to be prefumed, that every praditioner » I prefume I need not obferve, that when I fay/cparated» I mean only with regard to the inferior furface of fuch piece; and that it is ftlll contiguous with fome part of the fkin. ^ 4 wifhes8 INJURIES OF THE HEAD - - wiflies to cure his patients as foon as he can, the leaft painful means, and in fuch man- ner as fhall be produdive of the leaft poffible deformity or defed ; taking care at the fame time, :not to be inattentive to any evil which may anfe, nor to omit or negled doing what- ever may be neceffary during fuch cure. Upon this principle, I make no fcruple of declaring it as my opinion, that the preferva- tion of the fcalp ought always to be at- tempted, unlefs it be fo torn as to be abfo- lutely fpoiled, or there are manifeft prefent fymptoms of other mifchief. This kind of wound is fometimes very terrible to look at, and they who have not been accuf- tomed to fee it, may be inclined to think there is no remedy but excifion : but I have fo often made the experiment of endeavour- ing- to preferve the torn piece, and have fo°often fucceeded, that I would recommend it as a thing always to be attempted, even though-a part of the cranium fhould be per- feaiy bare, unlefs the two circumftances already mentioned render it improper or im- praaicable. The removal of it neceffahly produces a larger fore, which muft require a c-ood deal of time to heal, and muft leave a ^ X confiderableFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 9 confiderable deformity: the prefervation of it prevents both. Therefore, when fuch cafe occurs, let the furgeon be particularly careful to examine, whether there are any appearances, or fymp- toms, of any other kind of mifchief befide what the fcalp has fuftained; and if there be neither,, let him make the torn piece clean from all dirt, or foreign bodies, and reftore it quickly, and as perfectly as he can, to its natural fituation. The The diHance from the place where the accident happens, and other caufes, frequently prevent the furgeon from exa- mining the wound, until a confiderable time has elapfed, when, without any application having been made to it, the furface of the torn fcalp, and the parts which adhere to the cranium, are become dry, and are apparently not in a ftate to heal by the firft intention; or fome drelTings may have been applied, which, by the nature of them, and by keeping the parts feparate, add to the indlfpofition to unite. In either of thefe cafes, notwithftanding many hours may have intervened, this excellent idea of faving the fcalp need not be abandoned; on the contrary, after the wound has been thoroughly wafhed and cleanfed,*the furfaces of it fliould be.lightly fcarified with the point of a lancet; when, being thus refreftied, and yield- ing a fmall efFufion of blood, the immediate union between them will probably take place, provided they are brought into contadl, and retained as Mr. Pott dircfts.—To explain my meaning, I will feled the following imlance : A gentleman, about twenty years old; thrown from his horfe, and entangled mto INJURIES OF THE HEAD The manner in which it is to be there maintained, muft a good deal depend upon the particular circumftances of each individual in the ftirrup, received a kick on the forehead. As he was at a great diftance from London, I did not fee him till forty hours after the accident: he had been, and flill continued, in a Hate of infenfibility : the horfe's Ihoe had ftruck him on the edge of the orbit, and had torn the eye-brow and nearly one half of the covering of the forehead, which was raifed» and formed a flap. The wound, which was very large, had been filled, foon after the accident, with lint: it immediately occurred to me, that, if it were fufFered to heal in this fituation, tlie confe- quent deformity muft be deplorable. I therefore removed the drefiings, and found the os frontis denuded in two places : but, as there appeared to be no frafture, except of a fmall portion of bone, which had been broken off from the edge of ihe orbit, and as his fymptoms were rather thofe of general concuflion, I conceived it would be right to endeavour to pro- cure an union of the feparated parts. The length of time fmce they had been divided, and the drefiings, had left the fibres fo dry and conftringed, that they appeared very ill dif- pofed to unite. However, after having got rid of the remainder of the lint, and made it perfeftly clean with warm water, I fcarified the whole internal furface of the detached fcalp, and the parts of the mufcle which ftiU adhered to the bone, which his abfence of perception enabled me to perform freely. I then brought them into cbntaft, and retained them in that fituation by the dry future. I had the. fatisfadion to find them unite by the firft intention, making a fimple line nearly down the middle of the forehead. By proper treatment he foon re- gained his fenfes; and a fmall exfoliation from the edge of the orbit, at the bottom of the wound, was the only circumftance which for fome time retarded the perfed cure. E- cafeFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 11 cafe, and therefore mufi: be left to the fur-^ geon, who will make ufe of plafter, bandage,' and future, together or feparately, as he fhall find them moft convenient, and beft fitted to thepurpofe. I am aware that the very mention of a fu- ture in a wound of the fcalp, particularly a lacerated one, will ftartle fome of my readers, who have been taught that it is always wrong in both; I know that this is the general doc- trine, but I know alfo, that although it be fometimes true, yet if it be implicitly adhered ^ to, it will prevent a practitioner now and then from receiving a very ufeful affiftance. A ftitch, made with a flip-knot, will fometimes hold the divided parts in fuch fituation, as will greatly expedite a cure: in many cafes a very fhort time will anfwer the end, and the thread may be removed as foon as ever the purpofe is accompHfhed, or the future be- comes either improper or ufelefs. In fome cafes this will be all that is re- quired; the loofened fcalp will unite with the parts from which it was torn and fepa- rated, and there will be no other fore, than what arifes from the impraaicabihty of bring- ing the lips of the wound into fmooth and immediateIZ INJURIES OF THE HEAD immediate contaft, the fear of which fore miift be fmall in proportion. On the other hand, it fometimes happens that fuch perfed re-union is not to be ob- tained ; in which cafe, matter will be formed and coUeded in thofe places where the parts do not coalefce : but this does not neceflarily make any difference, either in the general intention, or in the event: this matter may eafily be difcharged, by one or two fmall openings made with a lancet; the head will ftill preferve its natural covering; and the cure will be very little retarded by a few fmall abfcefles. I muft defire not to be mlfunderftood: I do not mean to fay, that it muft be always and invariably right, to return the loofened fcalp, and to endeavour to procure its imme- diate re-union, or that fuch attempt will al- ways fucceed; I only mean to fignify, that it is my opinion, (and that founded on ex- perience) that the mere feparation or detach- ment of the 'fcalp, to however large an ex- tent, is not a good and fufficient reafon for cutting off any part of it in cafes where no other mifchief feems to have been done, in which the cranium is uninjured, and the partsFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. parts within it unhurt; and, that the at- tempt to procure a re-union with the parts from which it was feparated, though it will foraetimes fail, yet will mofl frequently fuc- ceed; and is always worth making; as fuch experiment, properly made, can never be at- tended with any real inconveniences. In fome cafes, the whole feparated piece will (as I have faid before) unite perfeftly, and give little or no trouble, efpecially in young and healthy perfons; in fome, the union will take place in fome parts, and not in others; and confeqnently matter will be formed, and require to be difcharged, per- haps at feveral different points ; and in fome particular cafes, circumftances, and habits, there will be no union at all, the torn cel- lular membrane, or the naked aponeurofis, will inflame and become floughy, a confider- able quantity of matter will be colkaed, and perhaps the cranium will be denuded: but even in this flate of things, which does not very often happen where proper care has been taken, and is almoft the worft which can happen in the cafe of mere fim- pie laceration and detachment, I fiy, even in this, if the furgeon will not be too foon, nor14 INJURIES OF THE HEAD nor too much alarmed, nor in a hurry to cut, he will often find the cure much more feafible than he may at firft imagine: let him take care to keep the inflamm.ation un- der by proper means; let him have patience .till the matter is fairly and fully formed, and the (loughs perfeftly feparated, and when this is accomplifhed, let him make a proper number of dependant openings for the dif- charge of them; and let him by bandage, and other proper management, keep the parts ' in conftant contad with each other, and he will often find, that although he was foiled in his firft intention of procuring immediate union, yet he will frequently fucceed in this his fecond; he will ftill fave the fcalp, fhorten the cure, and prevent the great de* formity arifing, (particularly to women) not only from the fear, but from the total lofs of hair. I have fkld,- that this union may often be procured, even though the cranium fhould have been perfedly denuded by the accident; and it is true, not only though it Ihould have been Gripped of its pericranium at firft, but even if that pericranium fliould have ^ becomeFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. IJ become floughy and caft off, as I have often feen. Exfoliation from a cranium laid bare by external violence, and to which no other in- jury has been done than merely Gripping it of its covering, is a circumftance which would not fo often happen, if it were not taken for granted that it muft be, and the bone treated according to fuch expeftation: the foft open texture of the bones of chil- dren and young people, will frequently fur- nifh an incarnation, which will cover their furface, and render exfoliation quite unnecef- fary; and even in thofe of mature age, and in whom the bones are Ml harder, exfolia- tion is full as often the effed of art, as the intention of nature, and produced by a me- thod of dreffing, calculated to accom.pHfli fuch end, under a fuppofition of its being nc- ceffary. Sometimes indeed it happens^'that a fmall fcale will neceffarily feparate, and the fore cannot be perfedly healed till fuch fepa- ration has been made; but this kind of exfo- liation will be very fmall and thin, in propor- tion to that produced by art, that is, that produced by dreffing the furface of the bare bone with fpirituous tindures, &c. and when a woundl6 INJURIES OF THE HEAD a wound on the head, with a found uninjured bone, denuded by accident, fhews a difpoli- tion to heal without exfoliation, it never can be right to counteraft nature, and oblige her to do that fhe is not inclined to, and which fhe would accomplifh her purpofe better without doing. If the fcalp be detached by fuch means,' or with fuch force of inftrument, that the fcuU, or parts within it have fuffered, then the immediate union of the fkin becomes impradicable, and it would be highly inju-r dicious to attempt it: our attention then muft be paid to the greater eyil; it then be- comes another kind of cafe, and all that need be faid of it in this place is, that al- though fuch mifchief does generally require the removal of fome part, yet even in this' fituation, no more of it fhould be cut off than what will be neceffary for the detec- tion, and proper treatment of fuch mifchief. In fhort, whether confidered as Ikln, or as the feat of the hair, it ought never to be removed wantonly, or without abfolute neceffity. Small wounds, that is, fuch as are made by inftruments, or bodies which pierce, or punaure, rather than cut, are in general moreFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 17 more apt to become inflamed, and to give trouble, than thofe which are larger, and in this part particuladj, are fometimes at- tended with fo - Hgh inflammation, and with fuch ijmptoms, as alarm; both patient and furgeon. ..The parts capable of being hurt by fuch kind of wound, are the fkin, the tela cellu- lofa, the expanded tendons of the mufcles of the fcalp, and the pericranium. If the wound affedls the cellular membrane only, and has not reached the aponeurofls or pericranium, the inflammation and tumor affcdl the whole head and face, the Ikin of which wears a yellowifh caft, and is fome- times thick fet with frnall blilliers, contain- ing the fame colpure4/erum; it receives the impreffion of ^the/fingers, and becomes pale for a moment, but rel^urns immediately t^ its inflamed colour ; it is not very painful to the touch, and the eye-lids and ears are always comprehended in the tumefadion^ the for- mer of which are fometimes fo diftended, as to be clofed ; a feverifh heat and thirft gene- rally accompany it; the patient is reftlefs, has a quick pulfe, and moft commonly a naufea, and inclination to vornit. Vol. I. C Thisl8 INJURIES OF THE HEAD This accident generally happens to perfonS of bilious habit, and is indeed an inflamma- tion of the eryfipelatous kind; it is fomewhat alarming to look at, but is not often attended with danger. The wound does indeed nei- ther look well, nor yield a kindly difcharge, while the fever continues, but ftill it has nothing threatening in its appearance, none of that look which befpeaks internal mif- chief; the fcalp continues to adhere firmly to the fcull, and the patient does not complain of that tenfive pain, nor is affli6led with that fatiguing reftleffnefs which generally attends mifchief underneath the cranium. Phlebotomy, lenient purges, and th-e tifc of the common febrifuge medicines, particu- larly thofe of the neutral kind, generally re- move it in a fhort time. When the inflam- mation is gone off, it leaves on the Mn a yellowifh tint, and a dry fcurf, which eonti- nue until perfpiration carries them away, and upon the difappearance of the difeafe, the wound immediately recovers a healthy afpea, and foon heals without any farther trouble. Wounds and contufions of the head, which afFe6t the brain and its membranes, are alfo fubjedlFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. I9 fubje£^: to an erylipelatous kind of fwelling and inflammation; but it is very different, both in its charafter and confequences, from the preceding; In this (which is one of tiie feffe£ls of inflammation of the meninges-) the febrile fymptoms are much higher, the pulfe harder and more frequent, the anxiety and reftleff- nefs extremely fatiguing, the pain in the head intenfe; and as this kind of appearance is, in thefe circumftances, moft frequently the immediate precurfor of matter forming between the fcuU and dura mater, it is gene- rally attended with irregular fliiverings, which are not followed by a critical fweat, nor afford any relief to the patient. To which it may be added, that in the former cafe the eryfi- pelas generally appears within the firft three or four days; whereas in the latter, it fel^ dom comes on till feveral days after the acci- dent, when the fymptomatic fever is got to fome height. In the fimple eryfipelas, al- though the wound be crude and undigefted, yet it has no other mark of mifchief; the pericranium adheres firmly to the fcull, and upon the ceffation of the fever, all appear- ances become immediately favourable. In C 2 ^ ■ that20 INJURIES OF THE HEAD that which accompanies injury done to the parts underneath, the wound not only has a fpongy, glaffy, unhealthy afpe£t, but the pericranium in its neighbourhood feparates Ipontaneoufly from the bone, and quits all cohefion with it. In Ihort, one is an acci- dent, proceeding from a bilious habit, and not indicating any mifchief beyond itfelf; the other is a fymptom, or a part of a d-if- eafe, which is occafioned by injury done to the membranes of the brain ; one portends little or no-ill to the patient, and almoft always ends well, the other imphes great hazard, and moft commonly ends fatally. It is therefore hardly neceflary to fay, that it behoves every praditioner to be careful in diftinguifhing them from each other. If the wound be a fmall one, and has paffed through the tela cellulofa, to the aponeurofis, and pericranium, it is fome- times attended with very difagreeable, and even very alarming fymptoms, but which arife from a different caufe, and are very 5 diftinguiftiable (FROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 21 diftinguifhable from what has been yet men- tioned. In this, the inflamed fcalp does not rife into that degree of tumefacStion, as in the eryfipelas<, neither does it pit, or retain the impreffion of the fingers of an examiner; it is of a deep red colour, unmixed with the yel- low tint, of the eryfipelas; it appears tenfe, and is extremely painful to the touch ; as it is not an affedion of the tela cellulofa, and as the ears and the eye-lids are not covered by the parts in which • the wound is in- flided, they are feldom, if ever, compre- hended in the tumor, though they may par- take of the general inflammation of the flcin ; it is generally attended' with acute pain in the head, and fuch; a degree of fever as pre- vents fleep, and fom0times brings on a de- lirium ^ A patient In the laft Icdlure which Mr. Pott gave on this fubjeil, he candidly obferved, that he found he had drawn the line of diftinftion between tliofe wounds by which the tela cellulofa alone is hurt, and thofe which penetrate through and punflure the aponeurofis and pericranium, too decidedly, and faid he was convinced, that the different fymptoms which he had fup- pofed to follow the wound of this or that part, often arofe from the conftitution and habit of the perfon wounded, rather C 3 than22 INJtfRl'ES OF THE HEAD> A patient in thefe cireiimftances, vvilj admit more free evacuations by phlebotomy,, than one labouring under an eryfipelas i the ufe of warni fomentation is required in both, in order to keep the ikin clean and perfpirable, but an emollient cataplafm, which is generally forbid in the former, may in this latter cafe be ufed to great ad- vantage. When the fymptoms are not Very preff- ing, nor the habit very inflammable^ this method wUl prove fufficient: but it feme- times happens, that the fcalp is fo tenfe, the pain fo great, aiad the fymptomatic fever fo high, that by waiting for the flow effed of fuch means, the patient runs a rifque from the continuance of the fever, or elfe the injured aponeurofis and pericranium becoming floughy, produce an abfcefs, and render the jC»fe both tedious and troublefome. A divi- fion of the wounded part by a fimple inci- fion. down to the bone, about half an inch than from the nature of the accident, and that the confequences could not ahvays be deducible from the particular part \yhich had received the injury ; for that, fmce he had written on the , fubjedl, he had remarked the fame fymptoms indifcriminately arifmg from either kind of wound. ^'FROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 2J C 4 When or an inch in length, will mofl commonly remove all the bad fymptoms, and if it be done in time, will render every thing elfe unneceffary. The injuries to; which the fcalp is liable from contufion, or the appearances produced in it by fuch general caufe, may for method- fake be divided into two claffes, viz. thofe in which the mifchief is confined nearly to the fcalp; and thofe in which other parts are in- terefted. The former, which only comes under our prefent confideration, is not indeed of importance, confidered abftraftedly. The tumor attending it is either very eafily dif- fipated, or the extravafated blood caufmg it, is eafily .got rid of by a fmall opening. I ihould not therefore have thought it of fuch confequence, as to be worth mentioning in this place, had it not been for an acciden- tal circumftance, which fometimes attends it, and renders it liable to be very much mif- taken.24 INJURIES of THE HEAD When the fcalp receives a very fmart blow,' it often happens that a quantity of extrava- fated blood inimediately forms a tumor, eafily diftinguifliable from all others, and generally very eafily cured. But it alfo fometimes happens, that this kind, of tumor produces to the fingers of an unadvifed or inattentive ex- aminer, a fenfation, fo like to that of a frac- ture, v^ith deprefQon of the cranium, as may be eafily mifi:aken. Now, if,' upon fuch flippofition, a furgeon immediately removes the tumid fcalp, he may give his patient a great deal of unneceffary pain, and for that reafon run fome rifque of his own cha-, ■ rafter. The touch is, in this cafe, fo liable to de- ception, that recourfe fhould always be had to other circumfiiances and fymptoms, before an opinion be given. If a perfon, with fuch tumor occafioned by a blow, and attended with fuch appear- ances, and feel, has any complaint, which feems to be the effedl of preflure made on the brain and nerves, or of any mifchief done to the parts within the cranium, the divifion, or removal of the fcalp in order to inquire into the ftate of the fcuU, is-rightPROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 2$ and neceflary; but if there are no fuch gene- ral fymptoms, and the patient is in every tefpeft perfectly well, the mere feel of fome* thing like a fracture will not authorize or vindicate fuch operation, fince it will often be found, that fuch fenfation is a deception, and that when the extravafated fluid is re- moved, or diffipated, the cranium is perfectly found and uninjured. The fecond kind of tumor attending the contufed fealp, viz. that which arifes from injury done to the cranium, and parts within, does fo abfolutely proceed from, and depend upon fuch injury, as not to fall under our cdnfideration in this place at all, but will be confidered at large when we come to fpeak of the mifchiefs done to the fcuU aiid brain by coUifion, or contufion. From what has been faid it appears, that the fcalp, taken in a general fenfe, is when wounded or bruifed, hable to be afFefted with four kinds of tumor, each of which has a diftinft caufe, and requires, or permits, a different niethod of treatment. The firft does not imply any injury done to the parts within the-fcull, requires no operation,26 INJURIES OF THE HEAD operation, and almoft always is cured by ge- neral remedies. The fecond, or that which is caufed by the fpontaneous feparation of the pericra- nium from the fcuU, in confequence of internal mifchief, is not at firft attended with very preffing fymptoms; but who- ever has obferved their progrefs, and attend- ed to their event, muft know what fatal and frequently irrefiftible evil it is the fore- runner of, nothing lefs than the inflamma- tion and putrefaaion of the membranes of the brain, and the formation of matter, be- tween them and the fcuU; and that it is a cafe which, of all others, will leaft admit delay. The third, though it fometimes gives way to free evacuation, and lenient external ap- plications, yet is fometimes alfo attended with fymptoms which are too preffing to wait the effed of fuch remedies, and is capa- ble of being immediately relieved by a divi- fion of the inflamed and irritated parts; whereas the fame incifion, made into the firft kind of tumefaftion,. would moft proba- bly exafperate the difeafe, and heighten,the lymptoms.FROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 27 The fourth, confifting of extravafated blood, feldom requires any chirurgic opera- tion ; time, and the ufe of the common dif- cutient applications ^, almoft always diffipate ^ at; and it only becomes of confequence, by the • poffibility of its being mifunderftood and miftreated. SECT. II. EFFECTS OF CONTUSION ON THE DURA MATER, AND PARTS WITHIN THE SCULL. In order to underfland rightly, and to have a clear idea of this kind of injury, it is ne- ceffary to recoiled, that the veflels of the pericranium, thofe of the diploe, or medul- lary fubftance between the two tables of fome parts of the cranium, and thofe of the dura matter within it, do all conftantly and freely communicate with each other; and that this Among which I know of none equal to a folution of crude fal almon. in vinegar and water, or fpt. vin. communicationiS • INJURIES OF THE HEAD communieation is carried on by means o^ in- numerable foramina, found in all parts of both furfaces of the fcuU, as well as at the futures; that upon the freedom of this com- munication depends the healthy and found flate of all the parts concerned in it; and that from the interruption or deftruftioil of this, proceed moft of the fymptoms attending vio- lent contufions of the head, extravafations of fluid between the cranium and dura mater, inflammations of the faid membrane, and fimple undepreffed fradure of the fculL . The pericranium is fo firmly attached to the outer furfac€ of the fcull, as not to be fe- parable from it without confiderable violence; and when fuch violent feparation is made in a living fubjea (efpecially if young) the cra- nium is always feen to bleed freely, from an infinite number of fmall foramina. The dura mater, which is a firm ftrong membrane, is almoft as intimately attached to the infide of the fcull, as the pericranium is to the outfide, and by the fame means, viz. by veffels ; and by thefe means a conftant circulation and communication are preferved and maintained between the tw,o membranes: and the bones dividing them. This, all the appearances \vhichFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCEl. 2-9 which attend the fcalping a hving perfon, or the reparation of the fcull from the dura ma* ter of a dead one, (efpecially if fuch perfon died apopledic, or was hanged) prove beyond all doubt: in the former, the blood will (as I have already obferved) be feen iffuing from every point of the furface of the cranium; in the latter, not only a confiderable degree of force will be found neceflary to detach the fawed bone from the fubjacent membrane, but when it is removed, a great number of bloody points will be feen all over the furface of the latter; which points, if wiped clean, do im- mediately become bloody again, being only the extremities . of broken veflels. Thefe veflels are largeft at, and about the futures, at which places the adhefion is the flrongefl:, and the haemorrhage upon feparation the greateft. It has been thought by many, that the dura mater was attached to the fcull, only at the futures ; that in all other parts it was loofe and unconncded with it; and that it conftantly enjoyed or performed an ofcillatory kind of motion, and was alternately elevated and deprefled. This idea and opinion were borrowed from the appearance which the dura mater^6 iNjlTRifes OF tHE SEAb mater makes in a living fubje£t after a portiorl of the fcull has been removed : but although it has been inculcated by writers of great emi^ nence, yet it has no foundltion in truth or nature, and has mifled many praditioners in their opinions^ nOt only of the ftru£^ure and difpofition of this membrane, but in their ideas of its difeafes; The dura mater does oh the internal fur- face of the bones of the cranium^ the office of periofteum, in the fame inahner as the pe- ricranium does on the external; (at leaft they have no other:) to this it is fo firmly, atid fo generally attached, as to be incapable of anyj even the frnalleft degree of motion; The al- ternate elevation and fubfidenee of it, which are obfervable when any portion of it is laid bare, are owing to a very different caiife from any power in itfelf; neither is, nor can ever be performed, until a piece of the craniuni has been forcibly taken away; and confe- quently cannot poffibly be natural, or necef- fary. By blows, falls, and other fhocks, fomd of the larger of thofe veflels which carfy ori this communication between the dura mater and the fcull are broken, and a quantity of bloodFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. blood is fhed upon the furface of that mem- brane. This is one fpecies of bloody extrava- fation, and indeed the only one which can be formed between the fcuU and dura mater. If the broken veflels be few, and the quantity of blood which is fhed be fmall, the fymp- toms are generally flight, and by proper treat' ment difappear ^. If they are large, or mi* merous, or the quantity of extravafated fluid confiderable, the fymptoms are generally ur- gent in proportion ; but whether they be flight, or confiderable, whether immediately alarming or not, they are always, and uni- formly, fuch as indicate prefllire made on the brain and nerves, viz. flupidity, drowfinefs^ diminution or lofs of fenfe, fpeech, and vo- luntary motion. This every pra£litioner knows to be one frequent confequence of blows on the head. But it alfo often happens, from the fame kind of violence, that fome of the fmall veflels, which carry on the circulation between the » This mull be fuppofed to be fpoken in a general fenfe; bccaufe it is well known, that fometimes a very fmall quantity of extravafated fluid will produce the moft alarming and molt preffing fymptoms; and that at other times a large quantity will occafion none at all. pericranium.32 INJURIES OF THE HEAD pericranium, feiiU, and dura rnater, are fo damaged, as not to be able properly to execute that office, although there are none fo broken as to caufe an adual efFufion of blood. Smart and fevere ftrokes oi\ the middle part of the bones, at a diftance from the fu- tures, are moft frequently followed by this kind of rnifchief: the coats of the fmall vef- fels, which fuftain the injuryj jnflame and become floughy, and, in confequence of fuch alteration in them, the pericranium feparates from the outfide of that part of the bone, which received the blow, and the dura mater from the infide, the latter of which mem- branes, foon after fuch inflammation, becomes floughy alfo, and furnifhes matter ; which matter being colleded between the faid mem-, brane and the cranium, and having no natural outlet, whereby to efcape, or be difcharged, brings on a train of very terrible fymptoms, and is a very frequent caufe of deftruaion.**, : The ^ Comment le pericrane a-t-U p& aulfi fe detacher de I'os dans le circonference ducoup? neferoltce point par I'ebran- lement ou Ife tremouffement de toutes les parties integrantes du crane? Si c'eft en confequence d»un tremouffement pareil que nombre de filets qui attachent le pericrane au crane fe font de- taches.FROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 33 The efFedl of this kind of violence is fre- quently confined to the veffels conne6ling the dura mater to the cranium, in which cafe the matter is external to the faid membrane; but it fometimes happens, that, by the force either of the ftroke or of the concuffion, the veffels which pafs between and connect the two meninges are injured in the fame man- ner; in which cafe, the matter formed in confequence of fuch violence is found on the furface of the brain, or between the pia and dura mater, as well as on the furface of the latter ; or perhaps in all thefe three fit nations at the fame time. The difference of this kind of difeafe, from either an extravalation of blood, or a commotion of the medullary parts of the brain, is great and obvious. All the com- plaints pr-oduced by extravafation, are, (as I have already faid) fuch as proceed from preffiire, made on the brain and nerves, and obfi:ru£tion to the circulation of the blood through the former ; ftupidity, lofs of fenfe, taches, par la meme raifon, plufieurs des filets^ qui attachent la dure mere au crane ont du fe rompre auffi: d'ou s'en fuivi un eryfipele, qu'occafion fuppuration, ou plutot pourriture. Le Dran. Vol. L D and34 INJURIES OF THE HEACr and voluntary motion, laborious and ob- ftrudtfed pulfe and refpiration, &c. and (which is of importance to remark), if the efFu- fion be at all confiderable, thefe fymptoms appear immediately, or very foon after the accident. The fymptoms attending an inflamed or floughy ftate of the membranes, in confe- quence of external violence", are very dif- ferent ; they are all of the febrile kind, and never, at firft, imply any unnatural preffure; fuch are, pain in the head, reftleffnefs,. want . of lleep, frequent and hard pulfe, hot atld dry fkin, flufhed countenance, inflamed eyes, naufea, vomiting, rigor; and, toward the end, convulfion and delirium. And none of theie appear at firft, that is, immediately = The difference between tTiefe two effeds of eternal vio- lence, was very well underftood by Berengarius Carpenfis, a moft excellent writer on . this fubjeft, who fays, Interdurn « etiam a contufione non rumpitur aliqua vena, fed runipuntur " Ugaraenta ilia durs matris; a quibus refudat aEquid : hlfce « vero nifi fiiccuratur, accidunt fa;va accidentia, & mors." - Paulas ^gineta has alfo very particularly diftinguillied be- tween that degree of contuf«5n, which aflfefts only the outer table of the fcull, -and that which injures the dura mater. Porro contufionis hujus dus exiftunt dlfferentice : vel emii* « calva per totam ipfius craffitiem contunditur, ut frequenter " etiam cerebri membrana abfceffu occupeturj vel, &c." afterafter the accident ; feldom until fome days are paft''. One fet or ckfs of fymptoms are produced by an extravafated fluid, making fuch pref- fure on the brain and origin of the nerves, as to impair or abolifh voluntary motion and ' the fenfes ; the other is caufed by the in-^ flamed or putrid ftate of the membranes co- vering the braiu) and leldom afFe£ls the or- gans of fenfe, until the latter end of the dif* eafe, that is, until a confiderable quantity of' matter is formed, which matter mufl prefs like any other fluid. I am very fenfible that it is a generally- received opinion, that blood fhed from its veflels, and remaining confined in one place, will become pus; and that the matter found on the furface of the dura mater, toward the end of thefe cafes, was originally extravafa- ^ " Nnlla autem harum contulionutn afpeftu dignofci poteil; ' " qaalis nempe, quanfave fit. Non protinus ab Idlu malum " fe videndum praebet." Hippocrates. " Sed accidentia que fequuntur ad praediaam contufionem, " inter commijfurai, non funt per contufionem tantum; fed funt " per putrtfuaionem fanniculi lafi, et cum venit ad certam " quantitatem determina.tam incipit febris, et alia accidentia; ** & tandem fequitur mors, nifi cito fuccuratur." Jacobus Berencarius Carpensis. D 2 tedI 36 INJURIES OF THE HEAD ted blood. I apprehend both thefe pofitions to be falfe. That pure blood ihed from its veflels/by means of external violence, and kept from the air, will not turn to, or be- come matter, is (I think) proved incontef- tibly by every day's experience, in many in- ftances, in aneurifms by punfture, .in; re- tained menfes by imperforate vaginae, and in all ecchymofes. True pus cannot be made from blood merely, as may be known from the manner in which all abfceffes are formed, and from every circumftance attending fup- ' puration; and that the matter found on the furface of the dura mater, after great contu- fions of the head, never was mere blood, I am as certain, as obfervation and experience can make me. Some of the French writers have indeed divided the fymptoms of what they call a contufion of the head, into two kinds, and have named them primitive or original fymp- toms, and Jecondary or confequential ones : among the former, they rank immediate lofs of fenfe, haemorrhage, involuntary dif- charge of urine and faeces, great propen- fity to fleep, &c.; among the latter, they reckon fever, delirium, rig6r, cbnvulfion, &c. OneFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 37 One kind they impute to the mere extra- vafatiou of bloody, the other to its putre- fa6lion. This account, though ingenious and ipe- cious, is not founded on faO:. It is true, that the two kinds of fymptoms are very diftinft from each other, as well in their na- ture, as in their time and manner of accefs, and fo far the remark is true; but from all the obfervation and examination which I have been able to make, both on the living and on the dead, they appear to me to pro- ceed from very different caufes. That both thefe kinds of fymptoms do now and then concur in the fame patient, is beyond all doubt; and that the cafe is thereby rendered complex, and more difficult to be judged of; but this does not conftantjiy happen; and even when it does, I cannot help thinking, that there are generally fuch diftinguifhing charaderiftic marks of each, as may prove the truth of what I have alTcrted. In order to explain my meaning as clearly as I can, I will confider the inflamma- tory effea of contufion by itfelf, and inde- pendent of every other complaint or injury, which may accidentally be joined with it. D3 If38 INJURIES OF THE HEAD If there be neither filTure nor fradure of the fciiU, nor extravafation, nor commotion underneath it, and the fcalp be neither con- fiderably bruifed, nor wounded, the mifchief is feldom difcovered or attended to for fome few days, The firft attack is generally by^ pain in the part which received the blow. This pain, though beginning in that point, is foon extended all over the head, and is at* tended with a languor, or dejeaion of ftrength and fpirits, which are foon followed by a naufea, and inclination to vomit, a vertigo or giddinefs, a quick and hard pulfe, and an incapacity of deeping, at leail quietly, A day or two after this attack, if no means preventative of inflammation are ufed, the ' part ftrickeu generally fwells, and becomes ■ puffy, and tender, but not painful;.; neither ' does the tumor rife to any confiderable height, or fpread to any great extent -: if this tumid part of the fcalp be now divided, the ■ pericranium will be found of a darkilh hue, and either quite detached, or very eafy fepar- able from the fcull, between which and it will be found a Imall quantity of a dark- coloured ichor. If the diforder has made fuch progrels, that 4FROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 39 that the pericranium is quite feparated and detached from the fcull, the latter will even now be found to be fomewhat altered in co- lour from a found healthy bone. Of this alteration it is not very eafy to convey an idea by words, but it is a very vifible one, and what fome very able writers have no- ticed From this time the fymptoms generally advance more haftily and more apparently ; the fever increafes, the Ikin becomes hotter, the pulfe quicker and harder, the fleep more difturbed, the anxiety and reftleffnefs more fatiguing, and to thefe are generally added irregular rigors, which are not fol- lowed by any critical fweat, and which, in- flead of relieving the patient, add confider- jably to his fufFerings. If the fcalp has not - «-Among thefe Fallopius particularly: " Infplciatis dili- " genter os detedlum ; quod os, quando eft in natura fua, eft " coloris fubrubri, non candidi prorfus, nec rubri prorfus, " fed eft veluti color miftus ex albo declinans ad rubicundum, ** ut fi ciulto lafte, aut alio fiolore candido, poneres parum fan- " guinis vel alterius rei rubrs, Scd ft videritis insqualitatem " coloris in ipfo ofle detefto, ita ud adfint veluti punfta coloris «' albi, et aridi oflis, quae aridss particulse aliquando majores ^ " font, aliquando minores. Sec. fciatij quod os fit contufum." Fallopius. D 4 beenI 40 INJITRIES OF THE HEAD been divided or removed, until the fymp- toms are thus far advanced, the alteration of the colour of the bone will be found to be more remarkable ; it will be found to be whiter and more dry than a healthy one, or, as Fallopius has very juftly obferved, it will be found to be more like a dead bone: the fanies, or fluid, between it and the pericra- nium will alfo, in this ftate, be found to be more in quantity, and the faid membrane will have a more livid difeafed afped. In this ftate of matters, if the- dura mater be denuded, it will be found to be detached from the infide of the cranium, to have loft its bright filver hue, and to be, as it were, fmeared over with a kind of mucus, or with matter, but not with blood. Every hour after this period, all the fymptoms are ex- afperated, and advance with hafty ftrides: the head-ach and thirft become more intenfe, the ftrength decreafes, the rigors are more frequent, and at laft convulfwe motions, at- tended m fome with delirium, in others with paralyfis, or com^tofe ftupidity, finifh the tragedy ^ f The whole pFOcefs of this very terrible difeafe is very ac- curately related, and vefy juftly accounted for, by Theodoric.FROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 4I bone If the fcalp has not been divided or^ re- moved till this point of time, and it be done now, a very ofFenfive difcoloured kind of fluid will be found lying on the bare cra- nium, whofe appearance will be ftill more-- unlike to the healthy natural one; if the «* Si vero ob iftus vehemenuam, dura mater ab olTe fuerit fc- ** parata: Vel aliquo modo laefa (fano & illaefo exiftente cra- *' nio) fic cognofces: cum dolor capitis, & lenta febris, fm- *' gulis diebus augmentantur, oculorum anguli, ac fi fpaf- " mari Vclient, dillorquentur; gens rubent; (quod fignum *' pravum eft in qualibet capitis lasfione;) pannus balneatus ** fuperpofitusj citius deficcatur; cutis etiam arida & ficca; «♦ & fi vulnus fuerit, & os difco-opertum, color offis velocius alteratur; & propter negligentiam curs, aegro fuperveniunt " dolores, & febres, fpafmus, fyncope, & permiftio rationis.'* Theodor. de'vuln. capit. " Qua vero fuper cerebri membranam fit, utraqua ratione difficilis eft: nam lasfis membranis apparet; ideo enim fe- *' bris cum horirore accedunt, faciei rubor, & calor, longe *'major quam pro febris modo; fomnique tumultuoli; cculi " fubpingues, & gramiofi & rubentes." ' Archigenes^/i? fanguine fultcrcurrente. Petrus e Largelata, having very accurately related the fymptoms attending the formation of matter under the cra- " nium when fradlured, fays: " Si autem fradura fit parva & " penetrans, tunc fiunt ilia figna poft aliquod terapus; eo " quod tunc humiditates qus funt fub cranio putrefiunt; & " tunc fiunt ilia accidentia:" And then very juftly adds, " Se- " cundo notes quod omnia ilia accidentia polTunt advenire ex perculEone capitis, cranio non frafto.'' Pet. e Largelata.42 INJURIES OF THE HEAD bone be now perforated, matter will be found between- it and the dura mater, generally in confiderable quantity, but different in differ- ent cafes and circumftances. Sometimes it will be in great abundance, and diffufed over ''a'very large part of the membrane; and fometimes the quantity will be lefs, and con- fequentl^ the fpace which it occupies fmaller. Sometimes it lies only on the exterior furface of the dura mater; and fometimes it is be- tween it and the pia mater, or alfo even on the furface of the brain, or within the fub- flance of it. The primary and original caufe of all this, is the ftroke upon the fcull: by this the vef- fels which, fhould carry on the circulation between the fcalp, pericranium, fcull, and meninges, are injured, and nd means^ being ,ufed to prevent the impending mifchief, or fuch as have been made ufe of proving inef- feaual, the neceffary and mutual communi- cation between all thefe parts ceafes, the pe- " ricranium is detached from the fcull, by mieans of a fanies difcharged from the rup- '■ tured veffels, the bone being deprived of its due nourifhment and circulation lofes its healthy appearance, the dura mater (its at- ■ tachingFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 43 tachlng veflels being deftroyed, or rendered "imf^t for their office) feparates from the infide of the ci'anium, inflames and fuppurates. Whoever will attend to the appearances which the parts concerned make in every flage of the difeafe, to the nature of the fymp- toms, the time of their accefs, their progrefs, and moft frequent-event, will find them all eafily and fairly deducible from the one caufe, which has juft been affigned, viz. the contu- fion. As the inflammation and feparation of the dura mater, is not an immediate confe- quence of the violence, fo neither are the fymptoms immediate, feldom until fome days ' have paffed ; the fever at firft is flight, but increafes gradually; as the membrane be- comes more and more difeafed, all the febrile fymptoms are heightened ; the formation of matter occafions rigors, frequent and irregu- lar, until fuch a quantity is colleded, as brings on delirium, fpafm, and death. Hitherto 1 have confidered this difeafe, as tniaccompanied by any other, not even by any external mark of injury, except perhaps a trifling bruife of the fcalp; let us now fuppofe the fcalp to be wounded at the time of the accident, by whatever gave the contufion; Or let\ 44 INJURIES OF THE HEAD let US fuppofe, that the immediate fymptoms having been alarming, a part of the fcalp had been rejnoved, in order to examine the fcuU; in fhort, let the injury be confidered as joined with a wounded fcalp. In this cafe, the wound will for fome little time have the fame appearance as a mere fimple wound of this part, unattended with other mifchief, would have; it will, hke that, at firft difcharge a thin fanies, or gleet, and then begin to fuppurate; it will digeft, begin to incarn, and look perfedly well; but, after a few days, all thefe favourable appear- ances will vanifh; the fore will lofe its florid complexion, and granulated furface; will become pale, glafly, and flabby; inftead of good matter, it will difcharge only a thin dif-' coloured fanies ; the lint with which it is drefled, inftead of coming off eafily, (as in a kindly fuppurating fore) will ftick to all parts of it; and the pericranium, inftead of adher- ing firmly to the bone, will feparate from it, all round, to fome diftance from the edges This z "Ubicunque autcm ex vulnere intereundum fit, neque " poflit homo fanitatem recipere, neque fervari, ex his intel- " Hcere convenit moriturum; et quod futurumeft prognofti- * ** care.FROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 45 This alteration in the face and circumftan- ces of the fore, is produced merely by the difeafed ftate of the parts underneath the fcuU; which is a circumftance of great importance, in fupport of the do£lrine advanced; and is demonflrably proved, by obferving that this difeafed afpeft of the fore, and this fponta- neous feparatlon of the pericranium, are al- ways confined to that part which covers the altered or injured portion of the dura mater, . and do not at all afFe£l the reft of the fcalp ; nay, if it has by accident been wounded in any other part, or a portion has been removed from any part where no injury has been done to the dura mater, no fuch feparation will happen, the detachment above will always correfpond to that below, and be found no where elfe. The firft appearance of alteration in the wound immediately fucceeds the febrile at- > " care. Hyeme plerumque, ante diem quartum, zeftate poft " feptimum, accedit febris ; quae quum fupervenlt, vulnus red- " dit non fui coloris, & faniem modicam efFundit, quodque ex " ipfo inflammatum eft emoritur, glutinofum efficitur, & car- ncm fale conditam reprffifentat." Hippocrates de vuln. capif. ** Ulcus neque alitur nequa pus maturat, & fordidum fit." ArcuigeNes. tack, II 46 INJURIES OF THE Head tack, and as the febrile fymptorns in'creafe, the fore becomes worfe and worfe, that is, degenerates more and more from a healthy, kindly afpe6l. Through the whole time, from the firfl attack of the fever, to the laft and fatal pe- riod, an attentive obferver will remark the gradual alteration of the colour of the bone, if it be bare. At firft it will be found to be whiter, and more dry, than the natural one; and as the fymptpms increafe^S and either matter is colleded, or the dura mater becomes lloughy, the bone inclines more and more to a kind of purulent hue, or whitifh yellow ; h Tandem fubpallidum vel album fe oftendit; ubi autem " jam purulentum eft, aut puftuls in' lingua nafcuntur, labo- " jans mente non conftante confumitur." Hippocrates de vuln. capitis. «* Quando fanies eft infra cranium, ipfo non fraflo, cranium « eft male coloratum: ^eger fentit gravidinem in ea parte qua " eft fanies.—Eft os fanum, id eft illud cui adhseret dura mater, coloris albi, mifti rubedine.-Et quo feparatio eft major, eo " major offis quantitas eft mutata in colore.—Ultra vero colo- « rem, cognofcitur etiam eo quod ficcius fit fano.—Et ultra " colorem k ficcitatem, quando incipit ifta feparatio, incipiunt " aliqua f:eva accidentia; & febris, mentis alienatio, ftupor, " vigilia:, &c. incipit fupra panniculum aggregari mate- *' ria, quaincipit corrumpi.'" Jacobus Berencarius Carpensis. andFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE* and it may alfo be worth while in this place to remark, that if the blow was. on or very near to a future, and the fubje6t young, the faid future will often feparate in fuch manner as to let through it a loofe, painful, ill-na- tured fungus; at which time alio it is no un- common thing for the patient's head and face to be attacked with an eryfipelas.' I have faid, that in thofe cafes in which the fcalp is very .little injured by the bruife, and in which there is no wound, nor any immediately alarming fymptoms or appear- ances, that the patient feels little or no in- convenience, and feldom makes any com- plaint, until fome few days are paft. That at the end of this uncertain time, he is gene- rally attacked by the lymptoms already re- cited ; that thefe are not preffing at flrft, but that they foon increafe to fuch a degree, as to baffle all ,our art: from whence it will ap- pear, that when this is the cafe, the patient frequently fuffers from what feems at firft to indicate his fafety, and prevents fuch attempts being made, and fuch care from being taken * " Suturas tempore curationis disjungi grave eft." Archicines db Sicaisw ofINJURIES OF THE HEAD of them, as might prove preventative of mif- ehief. But if the integuments are fo injured as to excite or claim our early regard, very ufeful information may from thence be colleaed; for whether the fcalp be confiderably bruifed, or whether it be found neceflary to divide it for the difcharge'of extravafated blood, or on account of worfe appearances, or more ur- gent fymptoms, the ftate of the pericranium may be thereby fooner and more certainly known: if in the place of fuch bruife, the pericranium be found fpontaneoufly detached from the fcull, having a quantity of difco- loured fanies between them under the tumid part, in the mannerl have already mentioned, it may be regarded as a pretty certain indication, either that the dura mater is beginning to fe- parate in the fame manner, or that if fomc preventative means be not immediately ufed, it will foon fufFer; that is, it will mflame, feparate from the fcull, and give room for a colleaion of matter between them. And with regard to the wound itfelf, whether it was made at the time of the accident, or af- terward artificially, it is the fame thing; it the alteration of its appearance be as I have ^ related,FROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 4p related, if the edges of it fpontaneoufly quit 'heir adhefion to the bone, and the febrile J^mptoms are at the fame time making their attack, thefe circurtiflances will ferve to con- vey the fame information, and to prove the fame thing.'' ' This particular eiFefl of contufion is fre- quently found to attend on fiffures, and un*- depreffed fradures of the cranium, as well as on extravafations of fluid, in cafes where the bone is entire; and, on the other hand, all thefe do often happen without the concur- rence of this individual mifchief. All this is matter of accident; but let the other cir- cumftances be what they may, the fponta- .neous feparation of the altered pericranium, ,in confequeiice of a fevere blow, is almoft always; followed by a fuppuration between the cranium and dura mater; a circumftance ■extremely well worth attending to in fifllires and'undepreffed fraftures of the fcull, be- si dans une playe contufe, oh le cl-ane eft decouVert, on trouve a la circonference de la playe, que le pericrane tienne peu a crane, ou en foit detache, c'eft une preuve certaine que le crane a foufFert, quoiqu'il rie foit' fraftur^'; & s'il a fouffert, en peut etre aflure que la dure mere a foufFert aufli. Le Dhan. Vol. I. E caufe,.^0 INJURIES OF tfifE li'fiAd' Caufe, it Is from this circumftance principality that the bad fjmptoms, and the hazard, fuch cafes arife. It is no very uncommon thing fdf a fmart blow on the head to produce feme im.tnediate feadfymptoms, which after a fhort fpace of time difappear, and leave the patient perfedly -well. A flight pain m the head-, a little ae* eeleratioa of pulfe, a vertigo and ficknefs, fometimes immediately follow fuch accident. But do not continue many hours, efpecially, if any evacuation has been ufed. Thefe are laot improbably o-wing to a Hight commotion of the brain, which havi^ig fttfeed no mate- rial injurv thereby, foonceafe* But if, after an interval of fome time, the fame fymptoms- are renewed ; if the patient, having been well, becomes again feverifli, and reftlefs,- and •that without any new caufe ; if he complains of being languid and uneafy, fleeps dif-. turbedly, lofes his appetite, has a hot Ocin, a - hard quick pnlfe,- and a fiulhed, heated countenances and neither irregularity of diet, nor accidental cold, have been prodn^iaive' of thefe ; mifchief is moft certainly im- pending, and that moft probably under the fculU -^^JfftOM EXfEkNAL VIOLENCE. 51 if the fymptoms of preflure, fuch as ftupi- dity, lofs of fenfe, voluntary motion, &c» appear fome few days after the head has fuf- fered injury from external mifchief, they do moft probably imply an efFufion of a fluid Ibmewhere: this efFufion may be in the fub- fiance of the brain, in its ventricles, between its membranes, or on the furface of the dura raater; and which of thefe is the real fitua- tion of fuch extravafation,' is a matter of great uncertainty, none of them being at- tended with any peculiar mark or fign that can be depended upon as pointing it out pre- cifely; but the inflammation of the dura ma- ter, and the formation of matter between it and the fcull, in confequence of contufion, is generally indicated and preceded by one which I have hardly ever known to fail; I mean a puffy, circumfcribed, indolent tumor of the fcalp, and a fpontaneous feparation of the pericranium from the fcull under fuch tumor ^ Thefe ' Lorfcju' on trouve le pericrane detache, il n'y a point 3 hefuer a faire le trepan. Je f9ais que dans un cas pareil on n'auroit ricn trouve d'cpanche fous le crane, mais ccpendant I'opcration faite de bonne heure auroit etc I'unique moyen de fauver le malade s'il etoit poflible, &c. E a SiINJURIES OP THE HeA15 Thefe appearances "therefore following a fmart blow on the head, and attended with! languor, pain, reflleflhefs, watching, quick pulfe, head-ach, and flight irregular fliiver- ings, do almoft infallibly indicate an inflamed dura mater, and pus, either forming or form- ed, between it and the cranium'". By detachment of the pericranium, I do not mean every feparation of it from the bone which it Ihould cover. It may be, and often is cut, torn, or fcraped off, with- out any fuch confequence; but thefe fepa- rations are violent, whereas that which I mean is fpontaiieous, and is produced by the Si done plufieurs experiences nous apprennent que la dure jnere devient malade en confequence de la contufion de I'os, & que fa maladie degenere en pourriture, ce que a jufq'ici em- pone plufieurs malades malgre derecours ufu6s, il fautabfolu- ment trepanner de bonne heure. Le Dran. " m Si ftatim ab initio febris primo aut fecundo appareat die, ilia proculdubiocaufamagnolcatperturbationem humorum. ac anln;i, quum vulnus incuteretur; ceflante caufa procatarftica; acubi fe coUegerit ^ger, defmat ilia febricula. Si vero pnmis ^diebus, nihil febrile, nec uUum fymptoma fentiat ^ger. feque in nullo difcrimine exiftimat,.hunc fi fubito, die fcdicet fep- Vimb, vel quarto declmo (nihil licet in vltlu, rebufve exterms peccaverit ^ger) ac pra^ter expeaationem febns mvadat, fig- nificat latens aliqnpd,-in cranio, cerebro, aut corpore vulneratu . ' Pet.PaaW. inHiPPOCRAT. defl:ru6lioiiFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 53 defl:ru£lion of thofe veffels by which it was connedled with thq fcull, and by which the communication between it and the internal parts was carried on; and therefore it is to be obferved, that it is not the mere removal of that membrane which caufes the bad fymptoms, but it is the inflammation of the dura mater, of which inflammation, this fpontaneous feceffion of the pericranium is an almoft certain indication. A falfe notion prevailed for many years, that the dura mater was not in general con- nected with the internal furface of the fcull, except at the futures; and that in all other parts of it, fuch a vacancy was left as gave free room for what they called its pulfatory piotion". This opinion, which was em- braced " If we conllder how clearly and plainly many of the bell antient writers defcribe the intimate connexion between the fcull and dura mater, and how perfeftly well acquainted many of them were with its morbid reparation, we fhall wonder hovf it came to be again forgot; but that it was, is mofl certain. In Hippocrates, Paulus jEgineta, Rhazes, apd others, are many palTages which prove their knowledge of the natural Ilrufture and adhefion of this membrane; and that fome of the moft eminent writers and pradlitioners had forgot, or did not attend to it, the following quotations, felefled from many ipore, may evince. E 3 " DuraJ4 INJURIES OF THE HEAD braced by many, even of the moft eminent , praditioners, was the principal reafon why the " Dura mater calvarijB conneftitur futurarura ope ut penfile & ereftum teneat cerebrum; turn etiam ut perfuturas legrefla *' pericranium procreat: fpatium vero inter futuras refte natura " liberum reliquit ut vacuum quoddam effet inter duram ma-! ** trem & calvariam ; has nimirum ob caufas ; primo ne quic* «' quam cerebri fyftolse & diallolae obftaret; fecundo ne vens, & arteriffi per externam durae matris partem fparfs levj *' aliquo ia^ in cranio fad^o rumperentur; poftremo ut ruptis in dura matre venis, fanguis non inter duram & piam ma^ ** trem, fed inter duram & craniuni efFunderetur, & cranio per- forato facllius extraheretur. . Et hie eft ordinarius naturae V ordo." GuL- Fab. Hild. Felix Wirtz fays, that the elevation of the cranium in flighli impreflions is needlefs, "Idenim motum cerebri, propter-i/a- cunm. Sc diftantiam quse eft inter peningem & cranium, «' minima impedire." And Hildanus, by way of reproof to what Felix Wirtz fays: " Aliquando durapi matrem cranio un^ *» dique adhsrere vidimus." Falloplus, fpeaking of the dura mater, fays: " Continue pul- «* fat, quare non facile fanatur.'' Petrus e Marchetti fuppofed the dura mater always to be at a dlftance from the fcuU in thofe who were bald. Speaking of the treatment of a particular cafe, he fays : " Poft feptimam nempe oleum hyperici, quia calvus erat patiens atque. ^lem- « brana a calvaria ^iftabat; quod in calvis femper obfervavi.'f Pet. e Marchetti OA/. C^i>. «' Aliquando contingit ut dura mater cranio fatis firmiter ad- «« hffireat, fed hsc admodum raro euenire folet, atque prater «' tur^ confuetudinem eft." Muys ?rax. Rat. Chirurg. This was alfo the opinion of Sylvius, Pacchioni, Ambrofe Pare, Serjeant Wifeman, Baglivi, BaTbette, and of all thofe'^TUOM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 55 tlie bad efFeds of contufions of the head were fo little underftood, and fo grofsly miftreated by them. They fuppofed that the vacuity between the diara mater and cranium was fufficient, in general, to defend the former from all external violence; and the blood and matter, fo often found between them, were thought to be depofited in a fpace naturally vacant. Upon this principle flood both their opinion and pradice; and therefcare it is not to be wondered at, that their accounts, in ge- jieral,. are fo perplexed, and fo feldofn verified by the examination of dead fubje£ls. It fometimes happens, that the fcalp is ,fo wounded at the time of the accident, or fo torn away, as to leave the bone perfedlly bare ; and yet the violence has not been fuch as to produce the evil I am now fpeaking ol^ In this cafe, if the pericranium be only turned back, along with the detached portion of fcalp, there may be probability of its re- union, and it fbould therefore be immediately who maintained the doftrine of the ofcillation of the dura mater; and who believed that that membrane was found fometimes higher, fometimes lower, that is, fometimes nearer to, fome- times farther from the fcull, at one age, and at oae time of ahe moon, than another,. E 4 made56 INJURIES OF THE HEAD made clean and replaced for the purpofe of fuch experiment, which, if it lucceeds, will fave much time, and prevent confiderable de- formity. If this attempt does not fucceed, the detached piece may be removed, and the cafe then becomes as if the fcalp and the pe- ricranium had been forced away at the time that, the. wound was firft inflidted; and the worft that can happen, is an exfoliation from the bare fcuU °. It does alfo fometimes happen, that the force which detaches or removes the fcalp, o Not that exfoliation is tlie necelTary confequence pf the fcuU being laid bare : this depends upon other circumftances, befides the mere removal of the fcalp ar.d pericranium. The folidity of the furface of the bones, the iize of the veffels, and the impulfe of the blood through them, are what princi- pally determine that. If the cortex of the bone be not very hard, and the impulfe of the blood be capable of counter- balancing the efFeds of the external air, a granulation of flelh will be generated on the furface of the bone, which will covet and firmly adhere to it, without throwing off the fmalleft ex- foliation ; efpecially in young fubjefts. On the contrary, if the bone be much hardened, and tlie reffels thereby con- ftringed; or if fuch applications be made ufe of, as will pro- duce an artificial conftriftion of them, the furface will necella- rily become dry, and the juices ceafing to circulate through it, it muft part with a fcale to a certain depth; that is, that part of the furface through which the circulation ceafes to b? carried on will be feparated from, and call off by the veffcl? which nourifli the reft of the bon?. doesPROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 57 ^oes alfo occafion the mifchief in queftioii; but the integument being wounded, or re- moved, we cannot have the criterion of the tumor of the fcalpi, for the diredion of our judgment. In thefe circumftances, our whole attention muft (as I have already faid) be direfted to the wound and general fymptoms: the edges of the former will (as I have al- ready obferved) digeft as well, and look as kindly, for a few days, as if no mifchief was done underneath ; but after fome little Ipace of time, when the patient begins to be reft- lefs, and hot, and to complain of pain in the head, thefe edges will lofe their vermilion hue, and become pale and flabby; inftead of matter they will difcharge a thin gleet, and the pericranium will loofen from the fcull, to fome diftance from the faid edges : im- mediately after this, all the general fymp- toms are increafed and exafperated ; and as the inflammation of the membrane is heigh- tened, or extended, they become daily worfe and worfe, until a quantity of matter is formed, and colledted, and brings on that fatal period, which, though uncertain as to date, very feldom fails to arrive. The method of attempting the relief of thii5^ INJURIES OF THE HEAD this kind of injury confifts in two points, viz. to endeavour to preyeiu the inflam- mation of the dura mater, or, that being neglefted, or found impradicabk, to give difcharge to the fluid coUeaed within the cranium, ju coAfecjuence of fuch inflame mation. Of all the remedies in the power of art, for inflammations of membranjous parts, there is none equal to phlebotomy. To this truth niany difeafes bear teftimony; pleurifies, ophthalrnies, ftrangulated hernias, &c.: and jf any thi^ig can particularly contribute to the prcvention'o-f the ills likely to follow fe- vere cofitufions of the head, it is this kind of evacuation; but then it muft be made ufe of in fuch a manner as to become truly a pre- ventative, that is, it muft be made ufe of immediately, and freely. I am very fenfible, that it will in general be found very difficult to perfuade a perfon, who has had what may be called only a knock on the pate, to fubmit to fuch difcipline, cfpecially if he finds himfelf tolerably well, He will be inclined to think, that the fur- geon is either unneceffarily apprehenfive, or ffuilty of a much worfe fault; and yet, m ^ nianyFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 59 many inftances, the timely ufe or the negled of this fmgle remedy, makes all the differ- ence between fafety and fatality. It may be faid, that as the force of the blow, the height of the fall, the weight of the inftrument, &c. can never precifely or certainly determine the effect, nor inform ns whether niifchief is done under the bone or not, a large quantity of blood may be drawn off unneceffarily, in order to prevent an ima- ginary evil. This is in fome degree true, and if the advice which I have juft given was univerfally followed, many people would be largely bled without neceffity ; but then, on the other hand, many a very valuable life w^ould be preferved, which for want of this kind of affiftance is loft. *' Nihil intereft, praefidium an fatis tutumfit, quod unicum eft," is an incontefted maxim inmedicine; and if it be allowed to ufe fuch means as may be in themfelves hazardous, furely it cannot be wrong to employ one which is not fo ; at leaft, if it be coniidered in a general fenfe, whatever it may accidentally prove to fome few particular individuals, Acceleration, or hardnefs of pulfe, reftleif' jiefs, anxiety, and an^ degree of fever, after 8 a fmartINJURIES OF THE HEAD a fmart blow on the head, are always to be fufpeded and attended to. Immediate, plen- tiful, and repeated evacuation by bleeding, have, in many inftances, removed thefe, in perfons to whom, I do verily believe,, very terrible rmfchief would have happened, had not fuch precaution been uled. In this, as ■well as fome other parts of praftice, we nei- ther have, nor can have any other method of Judging, than by comparing together cafes appai-ently fimilar. I have more than once or twice feen that increafed velocity and liardnefs of pulfe, and that oppreffive languor, which moft frequently precede mifchief under the ijone, removed by free and repeated blood- letting ; and have often, much too often, feen cafes end fatally, whofe beginnings were fuU as flight, but in which fuch evacuation had been either negkaed or not complied with. I . would by no means be thought to infer from hence, that early bleeding will always prove a certain prefervative ; and that they only die to whom it has not been applied: this, like all other human means, is fallible, and perhaps there are more cafes out of its re-ach, than within it; but where preventa- tiveFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 6t live means can take place, this is C€rta:inly the beft, and the moft frequently fuccefsfuL The lecond intention, viz. the diicharo:^ of matter collected under the cranium, can be anfwered only by the perforation of it. : When, from the fymptoms and appear- ances already defcribed, there is juil reafoii for fuppofing matter to be formed under the fcull, the operation of perforation cannot be performed too foon; it feldom happens that it is done foon enou2:h p. The propriety or impropriety of applying the trephine, in cafes where there is neither fiffure, fradture, nor fymptom of. extravafa- tion, is a point which. has been much liti- gated, and remains ftill unfettled either bj writers or pra<5litioners. When there is no reafon for fufpeding any of thofe injuries, either from the fymptoms, or from the appearances; and the pericra- nium, whether the fcalp be wounded or not, remains firmly attached in all parts to the ;fcull; there certainly is not (let the general fymptoms be what they may) any indication P " His, ubi cito manus admoveatur, falutis aliqua fpet fubeft ; ubi ferius, plerique omnes moriuntur." A R. C in G E N £ S- where6z INJURIES olf TiiEi ii£AD where to apply the inftrument, and conie-* qiiently no fufBcient aoithority fof uling k at all: but whenever that membrane, after the head has received an external vio- lence, feparates, or is detached fpf)ntaneoully from the bone underneath it, and fuch repa- ration is attended with the coUedion of a fmall quantity of thin, brown ichor, an alteration of colour in the feparated pericranium, and an-unnatural drynefe of the bone, I cannot help thinking, that there is as good reafoii for trepanning, as in the cafe of fradure; I believe experience would vindicate me, if I faid, better reafon; fince it is by no means infrequent for the former kind of cafe to da well without fuch operation, whereas the latter, (I mean fuppuration under *the fcull) never can ^. ^ All the beft praditioners have always q Lea auteurs jufqu'ki, ne nous ont parlc du trepan qu^autant c^u' il pouvoit fervir a relever des pieces du crane enfoncees par un coup violent, ou a donne iffue a quelque li- queur, comme feroit du fang, ou du pus, epanche, fous le crane. . La contufion de I'os eft un cas, ou le trepan n eft pas moms necefiaire ; non a caufe que I'os eft contus, mais pour prevenir la maladie de la dure mere, & de la pic mere; qui eri eft-une fuite prefque indifpcnfable. L e D r a n . agreed^ROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. fe^ agreed in acknowledging the necefiity^ of per- forating the fcull in the cafe of a fevere iftroke made on it by gun-fhot,' upon the appearance of aiiy threatening fyniptonns, even though the bone fhould not be broken, and very good pradice it is. ■ A wound by gun-fhoty (as far as it relates to the fcull) is to be regarded oniy as one attended with a very high degree of contuli<2Hi, and therefore-moft likely to pro- duce fymptonas accordingly; among whick, inflammation of the dura mater ftands pria- cipai. Experience confirms both ; moft q£ the fymptoms attending wounds of the head, made by gun-fliot, are fymptoms of contu- fion 5 and the formation of matter betweeii the cranium and dura mater is' a very fre*- quent and a very fatal confequence of fuch contufion. In fhort, the fpontaneous feparation of the pericranium, if attended with general diforder of the patient, with chiihnefs, horripilatio, •languor, and fome degree of fever, appears to me, from all the obfervation I have been capable of making, to be fo fure and certain an indication of mifchief underneath, either in prefenty or; impending, that I Ihould never hefitatc ■64. INJURIES OF THE HEAD hefitate about .perforating the bone iit fucJi circumflances. When the fcuU has been once perforated, and .the .dura mater thereby laid bare, the ftate -of the latter.roiift principally determine the furgeon-s future ,condu£t< In fame cafes, cjne opening will, prove fufficient for all ne* ceffary purpofes, in others feveral may be ixeceffary.. This variation will depend on th.e fpace of detached dura; mater, and the quantity of-:CQlleaed matter. The repetition of the operation-is; warranted, both by the nature of the cafe, and by the beft authorities; there being no comparifoai to be made between the .ppflible inconvenience arifing from-; largely denuding the dura mater,; and;the certain, as well as terrible evils which-muft follow the formation and confinement of matter betweeji it and the fcull. It; can hardly, be- neceffary.for me to ob- . to^ito. whoever refleas- eyeir fo little on "ttetfwqiature of^ thefb cafbs, that notwith- ftaiading'tbe o;pera.tjm> of; perforation be abfo- lutely and unavoidably nej^eflary,. yet the re- petition: Qf ablPQd-letting,ipf ;eooiing laxative medicines,-the.iiie.of.mnfeMo§iftic: remedies, andi?ROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 65 and a moft ftri6t obfervance of a low diet and regimen, are as indiipenfably reqnifite after fuch operation as before ; the perforation fets the membrane free from preflure, and gives vent to colle6ied matter, but nothing more; the inflamed ftate of the parts under the fcull, and all the neceffary confequenc&s of fuch in- flammation, call for all our attention, full as much afterwards as before ; and although the patient mufl have perifhed without the ufe of the trephine,; yet the merely having ufed it will not preferve him, without every other caution and care; This being all that our art is capable of doing in thefe melancholy cafes, I wifli I could fay, that it was moft frequently fuc- eefsful. Sometimes it is: the operation, con- fidered abftra£ledly, is not in itfelf hazardous, and is the unieum remedium for the mofl immediately impending and moft threatening mifchief: fome have been faved by it, none can efcape without it. As there are no cer- tain indications, no criteria^ whfereby we are enabled to judge whether it will prove fue- cefsful or not, the event of each individual, eafe can alojie detetmine. When that is h^ppy, the means are very juftly commended; Vol. L F but66 INJURIES OF THE HEAD but when it is not fo, they ought not there- fore to be condemned; fince they are built on rational principles, and are the only means in human power. C A S E I. A POOR fellow crofling Tower-hill, got, before he was aware of it, into a mob, that was endeavouring to refcue a failor from a prefs-gang. The man was knocked down. When the crowd difperfed, he was found fenfelefs, and in that ilate was brought to St. Bartholomew's hofpital, where he was im- mediately let blood, and put to bed. In an liour or two, he was fo recovered, as to be •able to give the preceding account. When Mr. Nourfe (whofe week it was for accidents) faw him the next day, the man ap- peared to be perfeaiy well, nor did any mark of violence appear on his head, except one fmall bruife, and that fo flight, that it might, with more probability, be attributed to the fall, than the, blow. However, as he was pofitive that he had been knocked down, by a very fmart blow, from a heavy^ weapon; and as he certainly had been deprived of fenfc a confiderable time thereby; Mr. Nourfe bled mmFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 67 him again, and ordered him to be kept in bed, and to a very low diet. At the end of three days the man found himfelf fo well, as to leave the holpital, and go to work. On the twelfth day from that of the accident, he came to my furgery, and complained of being much out of order; faid that his head was very uneafy; that he was hot, thirfty, got little or no fleep, and was, at times, fo faint that he could not purftie- his labour. He looked ill, affured me he had hved very foberly, from the time of his leaving the hofpital, and that h^ had been in his prefent flate for three days pafl. I took him into the houfe again, bled him, ordered him a glyfter immediately, and that he fhould be kept in bed. Next day (13th) he was in much the fame ftate as the preceding; he had pafled a reftlefs night, had dofed now and then, but awoke with much difturbance. He had a hot Ikin, and a flufhed-countenance, mixed with a hght yellow tint; he complained of general pain and tightnefs all over his head, but neither to the fight, nor to the touch, was there any appearance, or fenfation, whereon to build a probable fuppofition of particular mifchief. He was again, by the phyfician's order, let F 2 blood.6S INJURIES OF THE HEAD 1 blood, and direded to take the fal abfinthii mixture, with a few grains of rhubarb in it, every fix hours. He paffed the enfuing night in a difturbed manner, and the next day (the 14th) was apparently worfe; his Ikin was hotter, his pulfe quicker, and his pain more acute; he alfo now thought, that one part of his head was tender to the touch, and faid, he was fure that was the part that received the blow. This place I examined. The fcalp did feem to be rather fuller than natural, but by no means fufficiently fo to enable me to form any judgment by. Toward the clofe of this day he had a (light fliivering, was fick, ana vomited, and pafled the following night without any deep at all; talking fometimes incoherently, but Ml capable of giving a rational anfwer to any queftion which engaged his attention. On the 15th day, the tumor of the fcalp was more apparent, but yet feemed to contain little or no fluid, and was about the breadth of a crown piece. I would have re- moved that portion of fcalp; but while I was intending it, the poor man had a very fevere rip-or, which difordered him fo much, that he begged to be let alone for thp prefent. Thai; afternoon he had two more Ihiverings, pafled veryFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 69 very ill the following night, and next morn- ins: was delirious. The tumor now was more rifen, contained palpably a fluid, but was by no means tenfe; I took away the whole tu- mid piece, by a circular incifion, gave dlf- charge to a thin brown fanies, and found the cranium perfectly naked, altered confiderably in colour from that of a healthy natural one, but without fiffure, fradlure, or other evil. That whole night and next day he was delirious ; his fkin burning hot; he had frequent fpafms, which fhook his whole frame, and the next night (the 17th) he died. The whole fcalp, except round the edge of the incifion, was in a natural ftate ; the peri- cranium in every other part, except the tu- mid one, adhered to the bone; and neither inflammation, nor tumor of any kind, all over the reft of the head. Under that part of the fcull from which the pericranium had been detached, and from which the Icalp had been removed, a very confiderable colledion of matter was found lying between the dura mater and cranium, but no appearance of difeafe any where elfe. CASEINJURIES OF THE HEAD C A S E II. CONTUSION WITH WOUND. A YOUNG fellow, playing at quoits, was ftruck down by the perpendicular fall of one of them on his head. It made a large wound, which bled freely, but did not di- vide the pericranium, and confequently did not denude the fcuU. The wound was brought together by a flitch, made by fome- body at hand ; and the man, though ftunned at firft by the blow, having vomited plenti- fully, was foon well, and the next day went to. his work, which was that of. a farrier. The wound was dreffed daily with a fuper- ficial pledget, by the perfon who firft faw and ftitched it, and it feemed to unitQ- kindly. On the fixth day from that of the acci- dent, he complained of being chilly and faint; and when he had done about half a day's work, found himfelf unable to bear the heat of the forge, or to ftoop to flioe a horfe, on account of pain, in his head; he therefore left his fhop, went home, and fent for the apo-' thecary who firft had dreffed him. The wound,FROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 7^1 F 4 prognofticated wound, not being very carefully examined, appeared to be healed,, and therefore was not regarded as any caufe of the man's prefect indifpofition, who was treated as having a fever from cold and irregularity : he was let blood, and took fome medicines; but at the end of three days, (nine from the accident) being worfe, and incapable of bearing the expence of remaining at home, he v/as brought to St. Bartholomew's hofpital. On the tenth day from that on which he was wounded, I faw him. He had a confider- able degree of fever; his pulfe was hard and quick, his Ikin hot and dry, his face flufhed, his eye languid, and he complained of great pain and tightnefs all over his head. The wound was apparently, but not really healed; I could pafs a probe underneath, from one- end to the other of it; and I could feel the cranium bare the whole way. I divided its whole length ; found the pericranium floughy, and detached to a confiderable dif- tance, and the bone much altered in colour ; upon fight whereof, I removed the whole feparated part, by a large circular incifion. From the fymptoms and appearances I^2 INJURIES OF THE HEAD prognofticated no good. He was again let blood, and had a glyfter, and a lenient purge, which together produced three ftools. That night (the loth) he had a rigor, after ■which his pain became more intenfe, and fever higher. The next morning (the i ith) he had another fhivering; and when I faw him about noon, he was very inconfiftent. I fet on a trephine clofe to the fagittal future on one fide; and gave difcharge to a fmall quan-- tity of matter which lay on the furface of the dura mater; after being lightly dreffed, fome more blood was drawn from one of the jugular veins, and he was ordered to take a draught of the fait of wormwood mixture frequently. The next day (the 12th) he was worfe. I therefore fet the trephine on ao-ain, but on the other fide of the future, and by that means let out a confiderable quan- tity of matter from between the fcuU and membrane, Soon after this, he became more rational, and feemed to get a little deep; but iu the evening his pain returned with great violence, and he had a rigor which held him above an hour. When I law him the next day (the 13th) heFROM EXTERNAL VIGLENCE. 73 he was fenfelefs, had a low faultering pulfe, and a profufe cold fweat; foon after which he expired. Upon removing the upper part of the fcull, . a large quantity of nr\atter was found under each parietal bone, which had detached the dura mater from its connexion with the fcull for a confiderable fpace, but not at the future. On the right fide a portion of the dura mater was become floughy, about the breadth of a fhilling; and under this altered part, was matter between the two meninges. The more firm attachment of the dura mater at the futures, renders the feparation of it at thefe places very difficult: which circumftance, added to the conlideration of the fituation of the fagittal future on the very top of the head, renders the application of the trephine on each fide of it often abfo- lutely neceflkry. For if there be good reafon to fufpe<5t either an extravafation of blood, or a colle6lion of matter in confequence of a blow received on this future, and one fide only be perforated, the operation may happen to be performed on that fide where the blood or matter does not "lie, and will therefore be fuccei'slels: or, on the other hand, the extra- vafation74 INJURIES OF THE HEAD vafation or fiippuration may be on both fides; and then the perforation of one only cannot anfwer the whole purpofe, and the patient \yill as certainly perifli as if nothing had been done at all. CASE III. {CONTUSION WITHOUT WOUND. 4v BOY,about nine years old, playing under an empty cart, whofe fhafts were fupported by a ftick, was knocked down by the fall of one-of them upon his head. The child was ftunned by the blow for a minute or two, but foon became fenfible. When he came home, there being a fmall fwelling where the'blow had been iliricken, his mother ap- plied a bit of linen rag, wet with vinegar ; and as he appeared to be perfedly well in a day or two, he was fent to fchool. Five days paffed over before he made any complaint: on the fixth, he faid that his head ached ; he brought up his breakfaft, and could eat no dinner; but in the evening feemed to be pretty well again. On the 7th, he complained ftill more of his head, and faid that he was very fick and very cold. He was 6 , P^^tFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 75 put to bed, but got no reft. As he had'-riot had either fmall-pox or meafles, he was brought homey and treated as if one of thefe difeafes was to follow. ■ Three days more pafled, and no eruption appeared :■ the . fever continued much t^e , fame; he was-frequently inclined to-'-Vonfiit^ and what little - deep he got-^-^was extremely dift'urbed. He y/zs,'by the. order <)f a phy- fician,-'let blood, had a blifter apphed to his- back, and took fome of the common febri- fuge medicines. On the 12th day from that of the accident-, he was f6i2!ed with a fhiver- ing, which held him more than a quarter of an hour ; after which his pain became more acute, and his fever highe;r. Some blood was drawn from his temples by leeches, and- he was ordered fotne other medicines. On the 13th at noon, he had another rigor, 'ftill more fevere than the former, and -of longer duration; and that evening he became light- headed. By fome means or other, the acci- dent of the blow was now mentioned to the perfon who attended him, and who defired that a furgeon might look at his head. I found about a third part of the left parietnl- bone7^ INJURIES OF THE HEAD bone; covered by a flattilh tumor, containing a fluid. From the appearance of this fwelling, from the date of the accident, the attack, violence, and duration of the fymptoms, I made no fcruple to give my opinion, that the \^ow had been the fole caufe of all the child's illnefs ; that I fufpeded the fcull under the tumor to be bare, if not injured; that I did alfo believe, that matter was forming, or. formed, under the fcull; and that if the lall conjefture was true, the only chance the child could have of prefervation, muft be from the operation of the trephine. The fcalp was divided, and the fcull found as I fufpe<5led, that, is, perfe6lly bare, and altered from a natural colour : I would there.-r. fore have perforated it immediately; but as the bone was not broken, the parents objected to fuch operation ; and the phyfical gentleman, who had the care of the boy, not having feen much bulinefs of this kind, and not rightly comprehending the true, nature of the cafe, joined in opinion with the parents, that fuch operation was not neceflary. It was therefore not performed, andFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. ^'7 6nd the whole was committed to internal remedies. The fever increafed, and the child's ftrength decreafed in proportion : he conti- nued delirious for three days more, then fank into a ftate of infenfibility, and died. Having been contradicted, and (as I thought) fomewhat improperly over-ruled ifi the management of the patient while alive, I was the more importunate to get leave to examine him when dead. All that part of the dura mater which had been covered by the left parietal, and part of the temporal bone, was detached from the faid bones, and covered with a confiderable quan- tity of matter. Under the middle part of the former bone, the dura mater was difcoloured and lloughy; this difcoloured part I opened with a lancet, and let out near a fpoonful of matter, which matter lay between the me- ninges. All the reft of the contents of the head were unaffedled. When firft I faw this thild, all chaoce of relief from evacuation was over, and his lymptoms plainly indicated mifchief under the fcull. Nothing therefore but perforation could give him any kind of chance. Ido78 , INJURIES OF THE HEAD I do not fay that this operation would have faved him; I am much inclined to believe that it would nqt; but ftill it was the only- thing that could with propriety have been done for him ; and therefore it ought to have been done, inftead of wafting time with the ufe of internal remedies, from which no pof- fible good could be expe£ted or derived. CASE IV. CONTUSION WITHOUT WOUND. A LABOURING man fell from a.fcaffold, two ftories high, ,by which he was for a few minutes ftunned and infenlible, but foon re- covered. He was let blood, and having bruifed his right arm, and the fame fide of his forehead, he was properly dreffed by fome- 'body.in the neighbourhood. Next day, being very well, he returned to his labour, and followed it daily for five more. On the fixth, finding himfelf a good deal out -of order, he came to the hofpital for advice. lie complained of fliooting and frequent pain in-his head ; of giddinefs, and inclination to vomit; and faic^,; that he felt as if a cord was drawn tight round his brain. On the right fideFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 79 fide of his forehead M'-as a fmall tumor, nei- ther tenfe nor painful, but palpably contain- ing a fluid. I perfuaded the man to let me open it. I found a fmall quantity of a brown fluid, covering the bone, perfedlly denuded of its periofteum; upon which difcovery, I removed the whole piece by a circular inci- (ion: fourteen ounces of blood were drawn from his arm; a glyfter was thrown up, and he was confined to his bed, and barley-water,. Next morning (the feventh) his pulfe wag full, hard, and frequent; he had flept very little, and that in a very difturbed manner. He was, by the phyfician's order, let blood a2:ain, and direded to take the fal abfinthii mixture, with rhubarb fextis horis. On the eighth day, he was let blood again from one of the jugulars, and being rather ftill coftive took a gentle purge. On the ninth, his pulfe was ftill higher and harder, and his ll:in. more hot and dry; twelve ounces more of blood were drawn off from one of the temporal ar- teries. That evening he had a fliivering, after which he complained that his pains were much increafed. Next morning (the tenth) his fore looked very ill: was pale, fpongyi and glafly, and the fcalp feparated from the IcuU8o INJURIES OF THE HEAU fcuU to fome diftance beyond the edges of Hid wound. I fet on a trephine, and removed a piece of the cranium, under which the dura mater was fmeared over with matter, and had loft its bright colour. That night he got no deep, and toward morning had another rigor. The eleventh, at noon, he was manifeftly worfe in every refpeft ; his pain was intenfe, his fever high^ and his fore as ill-conditioned as poffible. With the largeft trephine I had, I took away another piece of the cranium, nearer to the temporal bone, and by means of this opening, procured the difcharge of a confiderable quantity of matter. This done, finding his pulfe ftiU hig^i and full, 1 drew off ten ounces more of blood, and ordered him a glyfter. The lofs of blood produced a fwooning, which lafted fome minutes, after which, he faid that he thought his head was rather cafier. As the evening approached, his pain returned, wherefore fome leeches were appUed to his temples. That mght he g-ot a little quiet fleep, and in the mofning of the twelfth day, faid that his head was per- feclly eafy: a very large difcharge of matter had been made through the perforation in the cranium, and I thought that the wound ..fFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 8l the fcalp wore rather a better afpe£l. He was kept ftridly to a proper low regimen; took at firft the fal abfinthii mixture freely; when his pain had left him, the phyfician ordered him the bark ; and in a very few days every bad fymptom and appearance left him. Would not this cafe, which ended fo hap- pily, have been attended with the moft fatal confequences, if the free perforation of the fcuU had been omitted, or if lefs blood had been drawn off? C A S E V. CONTUSION WITH WOUND. A YOUNG fellow of about twenty years was thrown from an unruly horfe againft one of the rails in Smithfield. The blow was great; he lay fenfelefs for above an hour, and in that ftat^ was brought into St. Bartholo- mew's hofpital. - He had a large wound on one fide of hia forehead, the Ikin of which was partly torn quite off, and partly turned down over his eye. The lips of the wound were, by the perfon who faw him firft, brought as near together as they would admit, but fuch a Vol. I. G portion82 INJURIES OF THE HEAP portion was loft^ as neceffarily left the bon^ bare about the breadth of a fhitling. As foon as his wound had been examined, he was let blood and put to bed. The next day, his pulfe being hard and full, he was again let blood, and was ordered to have a glyfter, a lenient purge, and fome febrifuge medicines. On the third, the wounded fcalp, and that .fide of the face being much fwoUen, a warm cataplafm was applied over the dreflmgs, and the part was well fomented ; and, in about five days more, every thing wore fo good an afpea, that the man feemed to be getting well apace. On the ninth, he complained of being out of order, faid his head ached, and thatle had not flept the preceding night. He was hot and feverifli, and his pulfe hard and full He was therefore let blood agam, and ordered to have a glyfter, and to be kept very low- On the tenth, in the night, hehad (as he called it) a chillinefs came all over him ; after which his pain was confiderably increafed. On ■'the eleventh, his fore feemed to fpread, dif- charaed a thin gleet inftead of matter the £ with which it was dreffed ftuck faft to all parts of it, and its furface, from having been florid and granulated, became tawny and fpongy. That day he had another ll^venng;FROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 83 and on the next, being the twelfth, a conful- tation was held on him. He was now very hot and feverifh ; his face much fluflied, an eryfipelas beginning to appear on his eye-lids his fore very ill-conditioned, and the bare bone fo much changed from its natural co- lour, that it looked as if matter might have been feen through it. Conlideratis confide- randis, it was agreed that he had no chance for his life but by perforation of the bare cra- nium. The operation was immediately per- formed, and a quantity of matter found on the dura mater. For feveral days the dif- charge was great, and the man continued very ill; but about the eighteenth day the fever left him, he became eafy, the difcharge leffened, his fore put on a good face, and he got a natural fleep. From this time nothing finifter happened, and the man got foon well. CASE VI. CONTUSION WITHOUT WOUND. A LAD about twelve years old, {landing by a man who was playing at cricket, received a blow from the bat on his forehead. The boy became fenfelefs, and as he was not G 2 knownINJURIES OF THE HEAD known to any body prefent, he was brought to the hofpital. He recovered his fenfes be- fore he got thither; but the part which re- ceived the ftroke being much fwoUen, he was drefled, let blood, and ordered to keep in bed. When I faw him next morning, he had no complaint but the forenefs of his fore- head, under the Ikin of which there feemed to be a good deal of extravafated, coagulated blood. His pulfe was full and ftrong; he was therefore again let blood, and as he had not had a flool for two days, a glyfter was thrown up, and a lenient purge given. A difcutient cerate was kept upon his forehead; and, being of a coftive habit, he was purged once in two or three days; and on the ninth, -from that of the accident, was difcharged from the houfe. On the fourteenth, he re- turned to it again, complained of laflitude, ciddinefs, and head-ach. He was put^under the care of the phyfician, was let blood, vo- mited, purged, and took proper medicines, but remained much the fame for three or four days, that is, he was f-^V'^'lS too hot, a pulfe too quick, and what little ileep he got was unquiet, and Ihort. Un the feventeenth day he had a flight ngor, duringFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 85 during and after which his pain in the head Avas much more intenfe; and the foUowino- daj all his febrile iymptoms were much exafperated. On the nineteenth, he com- plained of tendernefs to the touch on his forehead, and great general pain in his head. He was again let blood, and was more funk by the difcharge than I could have fuppofed, but no remiffion of his fymptoms followed. His fleep that night was very little, and very unquiet; toward morning he had two diftind: ihiyerings, and when I faw him at noon, on the twentieth, hig forehead appeared fome- what tumid and puffy. From the conti- nuance and exafperatioii of his fymptoms, and from the new appearance on his forehead, I was almoft certain there was mifchief on or under the fcuH; I therefore divided the fcalp, to examine the bone, and found, be- tween it and the pericranium, which had quitted its adhefion for more than the breadth of a crown piece, a fmall quantity of a thin, difcoloufcd fluid. This (as it appeared to me) put the nature of the cafe out of doubt, and left the boy no chance, but from perforation. 1 therefore applied the trephine immediately, and gave G 3 difcharge86 INJURIES OF THE HEAD difcharge to matter formed between the dura mater and bone. For a week after the ope- ration, the difcharge was large, and the boy in much hazard ; but at the end of that time, the fuppuration leffened, the dura ma- ter incarned kindly, and by proper care, and taking freely of the decod cortic. peruv. he got well. CASE VII. CONTUSION WITHOUT WOUND. A MAN in the neighbourhood of St. GHes^s had a quarrel with his wife; in which he ftruck her over the head with a mop-ftick. The blow was a fmart one, but as it neither fetched blood, nor brought her to the ground, it only finifhed the difpute, and no farther no-, tice was taken of it. The woman followed her bufinefs, which was that of crying greens about the ftreets, and lived (to ufe her own words) fometimes drunk, fometimes fober, for a week. On the eighth day from that of the blow, Ihe found herfelf fo ill, that (he applied to the hofpital for admiffion; and was taken in as a phyfician's patient for a fever. The doaor wrote for her ; and the day after thisFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 87 this (the tenth from the accident) the fifter of the ward, in cutting off the patient's hair, which wzs full of vermin, difcovered a fweU lino-, which flie defired me to look at : it was flattifh, about the breadth of the palm of a hand, and lay immediately a-crofs the fagittal future. The woman had now a hard full pulfe, a hot dry Ikin, a black tongue, a frequent inclination to vomit, great thirft, intenfe pain in hqr head, and got no deep. From thefe fymptoms and appearances, and from the account which the woman now firft gave of the blow, I made no hefitation to fay, fuch blow was the caufe of all her fymptoms. That night {he had a fevere rigor, and the next day, the eleventh, an eryfipelas had taken poffeffion of part of her vifage. I opened the tumor, and finding the bone bare, cleared away the fcalp largely, and circularly. I then applied a trephine on one fide of the future and clofe to it, and found the dura mater al- tered in its natural colour, and as it were, fmeared over with matter. She pafied the fucceeding night very ill, was in great pain, got no lleep, and had two fhiverings. When I came to her the next day, her whole vifage G 4 was88 INJURIES OF THE HEAO was covered with an eryfipelas, and fo fwol- len, that (lie could not open her eye-lids. I applied the trephine on the other fide of the future, and found the fame appearance, viz. matter on the furface of the membrane. She had within the laft two days been let blood three times, and had conftantly taken fuch medicines as the phyfician had ordered for her, and which were calculated to abate her fever, and keep her body open. Her fymptoms ftill continued without abatement; the wound of the fcalp bore as bad an afped as poffible, fhe talked very inconfiftently, got not a wink of fleep, and called perpetually for drink. As the quantity [of bone made bare by the removal of the fcalp gave room for the farther application of the inftrument, I made a third perforation near to the firft, and immediately gave thereby difcharge to fo large a quantity of matter, as to fatisfy me the event muft be fatal. , The next day the right arm and leg be- came paralytic, and the day following that, from having been raving, fhe funk into a ftate of perfea infenfibility, had a fhort, la- borious refpiration, a fmall, interrupted, faul- ; teringFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 89 terlng pulfe, and cold extremities, and on the fixteenth day from that of the accident ihe died. Upon opening the h-ead, the dura mater was found covered with matter, under the whole internal furface of both the parietal bones; but the firm adhefion of the longitu- dinal finus to the fagittal future had prevented all communication between the two collec- tions of matter. CASE VIIL CONTUSION WITH WOUND. A LUNATiCK threw himfelf from a win- dow, two ftories high, and in his fall, ftruck his head, firft againft a fign-iron, and then ^gainft a flated pent-houfe. He was taken up fenfelefs, with three wounds on his head; one juft above the right temple, and two on the top of his head: the wounds were but fmall, nor was the pericranium divided in any of them. He remained ftupid above twelve hours; but being in that fpace of time let blood freely twice, he recovered his fenfes, but Ihewed no figns of a right underftanding. He paffed 7 two90 INJURIES OF THE HEAD two days and nights in the utmoft diforder and diftui-bance. He was confined in a ftrait waiflcoat, and kept two people conftantly employed in holding him: at laft, by re- peated phlebotomy, and taking a large quantity of opium, he fell afleep, flept near twelve hours, and then awoke perfedly tranquil, and perfedly rational. By the iixth day from that of the fall, his wounds were in perfed good order, and feemed to heal without any trouble; the man was in very good health and temper, and perfedly rational and intelligent. He would have been permitted by his friends to have gone out a little way into the country; but left there ihould be any latent mifchief, I advifed him to keep quiet a little longer, and to live with <rreat caution ; which advice was followed. On the tenth day from that of the accident, he loft his appetite, looked dull and languid, refufed food and company, complained that his head ached, and faid that he had not flept. So little time had paffed fince he had been difordered in his mind, that from his afpeft ■and manner, I fufpefted a return of his lu- nacy I let him blood again, direded that he might be kept low, and deftred his brotherPROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. pi who was an apothecary,' to give him an opiate at going to bed. The next day, the eleventh, he faid that his head-ach had again prevented him from fleeping all night, and that he felt as if a cord was bound tight about his brain: his fkin was too hot, his pulfe was too hard and too frequent; his urine fmall in quantity, and high coloured: and the afpedl of the wounds in the fcalp, by no means'^fo favour- able as they had hitherto been: one of them looked more fpongy and pale than the others.. I examined with my probe, and found the fcull bare for fome fpace under it. With his own and brother's confent, I removed all the fcalp covering the bare cranium, and found it to be confiderably altered from a natural colour. I bled him again, and defired that he might take freely of the fait of wormwood and lemon juice until the next day. That night he had a fmart rigor, and the next morning, find- ing him worfe and more difturbed, I made a perforation of the fcull. The dura mater under this perforation was dull, and had ap- parently matter on its furface, though liTiall in quantity. He was dreffed lightly, and as his pulfe would very well bear it, eight ounces more of blood were drawn off. The following^2 INJURIES OF THE HEAD following morning, the thirteenth, he had a flill more fevere fliivering, his pain in his head was greater, his fever higher, and the whole fore fo crude, that the hnt was with difficulty removed from it. I applied the tre^ phine again, and found the fame appearance, viz. a dull difcoloured dura mater, and a fmall quantity of matter, That evening he had another rigor, and was the following day manifeftly worfe. Convinced, from the fymptoms, of his hazard, and firmly believing that matter was colkaed in fuch manner as not to be difcharged by the two openings al- ready made, I ventured to make a third, and that a large one; which produced an imme- diate and large difcharge of pus. In feven or ei-ht hours 1 faw him again, and found him eafier and more tranquil. He had flept nearly an hour, and his pulfe did not feel fo rapid, nor fo hard. That evening he got more fleep, and the follawing morning anfwered every queftion alked, in fuch manner, as to. convince every body that he was certainly better. To fhorten the relation, I fhall only add that the difcharge continued large for feveral days, and then gradually decreafed : all his fymptoms by degrees alfo difappearedFROM EXTERNAL VIOCENCE. 93 and in no great length time, of by proper care, he got very well. When this patient was attacked with his £rft fymptoms, I did not fufpedi the true caufe. His want of fleep, his feeming an- xiety, his taciturnity, and great imwillingnefs to anfwer any queftion, feemed to me to be- fpeak a return of his maniacal diforder. Upon this fuppofition I gave him the opiate, hoping, that if I could procure fleep he might be bet^ fer. But when I faw the altered appearance of the wound, and found that the pericranium had quitted its adhefion to the fcull, I was no longer in doubt, that whatever elfe mio-ht concur to diforder him, yet all his complaints were fairly deducible from the efFeds of his fall. And I apprehend he owed the preferva- tion of his life to the treatment he underwent, in confequence of fuch fuppofition. CASE IX. CONTUSION WITH WOUNDS. A WATCHMAN, whofe ftand was in White- chapel, got into a fcuffle with fome drunken failors, and received feveral wounds and blows on his head; from fome of which he loft fo much^4 INJURIES OF THE HEAI> much blood, that he was the next day brought Into St. Bartholomew's hofpital in a very weak low ftate. « Not one of the wounds, which were five in number, had pafl'ed the pericranium, but his whole head was very much fwollen and bruifed. He was in other refpeds very well; that is,, he did not complain of ficknefs, nor any other kind of pain than what forenefs the bruifes neceffarily occafioned; and he had the full and perfea ufe of his fenfes. As he had already fuftained great lofs of blood, and was more than fixty years old, I made ufe of no farther evacuation, but dreffed his head fuper- ficially, and direfted that he fhould be kept in bed. At the end of about a week, the c-eneral tumefadion was nearly gone, and all 'the wounds in a healing date; the man tranf- Vreffed the rules of the hofpital by flaying out all night, and was difcharged. On the fifteenth day from that of the accident, he came to me again, complaining of head-ach giddinefs, ficknefs, failure of ftrength, lofs of appetite, and want of fleep. ■ All the wounds, except one, were per- feaiy healed ; this was on the upper part of, the right parietal bone ; it was crude, fpongy, '8FROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 95 jand the exuberant flefh of fuch colour and confiftence, as inclined me (confidering at the fame time his general fymptoms) to fufpedt ' mifchief underneath it. I took him into the houfe again, and immediately removed a cir- cular portion of the fcalp, including the wound, and found both pericranium and fcuU in the ftate I fufpedled ; that is, the former altered and detached, and confequently the Jatter bare. Neither the age, habit, nor ftate of the -man, feemed to be capable of bearing .free evacuation, nor did I in ray own opinion believe that there was time for the experi- ment. I therefore perforated the middle of the bare part of the bone, and found a fufS- cient warrant for having fo done; that is,, a fmall quantity of matter on the furface of the dura mater. His head was dreffed lightly, a- little blood was drawn from one of his arms, and a glyfter thrown up to procure a ftool. The following night he pafted ill; had a flight fliivering, got little or no fleep, and complained very much of pain in his head; the bare membrane looked very crude, dif- charged a thin gleet, and prefled hard againft the edges of the bone. The next day, his pulfe being confiderably rifen, he was let blood96 INJ^JRIES OF THE HEAD blood ao:ain: that afternoon he had another rigor, and his pain as well as fever became more intenfe^ On the eighteenth day^ finding him in every refped worfe, I made another perfora- tion jitft below the formet, and gave thereby a difcharge to a larger quantity of matter, which the clofe prefliire of the dura mater againft the edges of the perforation had hi- therto confined. On the twentieth, he was indeed rather eafier, but his fever was very high, and both the dura mater and fore in the fcalp looked very ill; wherefore fufpeding more matter, and being fatisfied the man had no other chance for life, 1 made a third per- foration clofe by the fecond. This procured fo large a difcharge of pus, that I was very apprehenfive that the extent of the mifchief was too great for the alTiftance of art to prove effeaual in: however, I was luckily difap- pointed ; for in a very few days more, all his bad fymptoms gradually left him, and the man got perfeftly well. From confidering all the circumftances of this cafe, I am fatisfied, that had not the cranium been perforated at all, the man muft have died, from the coUeaion and confine- mentFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 97 ment of matter: and I am alfo as much con- vinced, that the two former perforations would have proved infufficient for the purpofe, and that the man owed his prefervation to the large removal of bonei This is a point of pra6lice, which has by no means been fuffieiently attended to by. praditioners, nor fuffieiently inculcated by the writers of our country at leaft. Many, who fee and are convinced of the juftnefs and propriety of it, want authority to vindicate them in propofing or executing it; and fome part of the difgrace which has been caff: on the operation of the trepan has arifen from this caufe. Praditioners have in general been afraid to make more than one opening, and that generally a fmall one. If the inflamma-* tion be of any extent, or the quantity of mat- ter at all confiderable, this one fmall operiino- muft prove infufficient, either for the relief of the tenfe inflamed membrane, or for the eva- cuation of the fluid ; and the only probable chance which the patient can have, muft be from the removal of a large portion of bone ; and this equally in the cale of extravafation of blood or ferum, as in that of abfcefs. Vol. I. H CASE 1INJURIES OF THE HEAIT C A S E X. CONTUSION JOINED WITH EXTRAVASATION. A FIREMAN,- who was at work on the top of an houfe, fell in with the roof of it; he was taken out fenfelefs, and brotight in that ftate to the hofpitaL He had on different parts of his body feve- Fal wounds and briiifes, but none of them ieemed to be of any great confequence. On his head were four, one of fome fize, on the Tipper part of the frontal bone, near to the co- ronal future, two on the left parietal, one on the right fide of his head, juft above his ear, •and a feiail bruife on the upper part of the OS occipitis. Of all thefe wounds, the pen- cranium was divided in. one only, viz. that near the coronal future. His wounds were dreffed, he was largely bled a ^^lyfter was thrown up, and a purg- ing mixture was ordered to be given coch- le-rtim, nntil he ftould have a difcharge per anum. The next day he .was in the fame ftate, perfeaiy fenfelefs, had the apo- pleaic ftertor, a full labouring interrupted pulfe, and fome difficulty of refpiration. HeFROM EXTERNAL VlOLEITcfe; . 99 lia(l four or five large ftools, wherefore his innixture was difcontinliedj but fixteen ounces more of blood were drawn from one of the jugular veins ; which evacuation was re* peated. again in the evening of the fame day, to the quantity of eight more. On the third day, being ftill perfeftly ftupid, difchafgihg both urine and faces involuntarily^ and hav- ing ftill A full labouring pulfe, both the tem-^ poral arteries werfe opened, and fourteen ounces drawn from thencci On the fourth, findino- 110 alteration^ and being fatisfied that the hian's ftate coilld hardly be made worfe, I deteriniried to perforate the cranium, and jiccordingly fet a large trephine on the up^- per part of the frontal bone, where the pericranium had been divided. The dura tnatef was found to be thinly covered with grumoils bloody fome of which I removed^ and thereby made way for the difcharge of more. The next day^ (the fifth) finding that what difcharge had been made, during the night, Was bloody^ and that the man was in no refpea altered for the better^ I thought I had fufficient authority for repeating the operation, which I accordingly did, clofe by and below the former; and as the blow, by ^ * which100 INJURIES OF THE HEAD which the wound had been infliaed, feemed to have been almoft exadly on the top of his headi I made a third opening in the parietal bone, clofe to the future. The appearance under all was the fame as under the firft, viz. a thin layer -of grumous,' or rather coagulated blood. Next day, (the fixth) toward evenings the man opened his eyes ; and on the le- venth, in the morning, he fpake. The dif- charge of blood continued for feveral days, and at the end of about a week from this time, ceafed ; the dura mater and the wound- ed fcalp wearing as good an afped as could be wiQied, and the patient being eafy and rational. On the eighteenth day, he complained of pain all over his head ; was fick, reached to vomit, and faid' that he was faint and chilly. . On the nineteenth, his face was flufhed, his Ikin hot, his pulfe quick and hard. He was let blood, and ordered to have a glyfter, and to ta^ve fome medicines of ,a febrifuge kind. A day or two more pafied in this manner, ■ his fever not violent, but rather increafing than remittnig; his pain, though not acute, vet luch as to deprive him of his fleep ;, httle ' - •■ risfors ...... AFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. loi rigors occurring irregularly, no perfpiration, and an exceffive languor. At laft, on the tvventy-firfl: day, on the upper part of the os occipitis, on the right fide where there had been a fmall bruile, a tumor arofe, fo cha- radlerifed, as to fatisfy me that the caufe of the late alteration of circumftances lay underneath it; it did not rife to any height, and con- tained a fmall quantity of fanies, but covered a portion of bone which the pericranium had- quitted. I removed the fcalp, and would have fet on a trephine, but the man obfti- nately refufed to fubmit to it. On the twenty-fifth day, he loft the ufe of his left leg and arm, and was at the fame time much convulfed in his right; which pa- ralyfis and fpafm continued until the twenty- feventh, ^nd on the twenty-eighth he died. Upon examining his head, a coUedion of matter was found under the bar^ part of the occipital bone; the dura mater under this matter was floughy and putrid, and about a delert fpoonful of matter lay between the meninges, juft under the altered part of the dura mater. In the part where the bloody extravafation had been, every thing was per- fectly fair and free from difeafe. ^ 3 In102 INJURIES OF THE HEAD 111 this cafe, there feems to have been ^s- clear a diftinaion between the bloody extra- vafation, with its effeds, and the infiamma-. tory ftate of the dura pnater, with its confer quences, as can be defired, All the firft fymptoms were fuch as were caufed by mere preffure of the extravafated blood ; au oblite- ration of every fenfible faculty, attended with the principal fymptoms of an interrupted cir- culation. Perforation of the fcull, where this extravafation had been made, did, by giving difcharge to the blood, happily remove thefe, and the man was getting well apace, •until the ills arifing from another caufe, viz, the inflammatory feceffion of the dura mater in confequence of contufion, and that in an- other place, began to appear; they indeed made- their attack rather late, nor did they rife fo high as they moft frequently do; but then it muft be confidered v/hat difcipline the poor man had undergone, and what evacua- tion had been made. Notwithftanding which, they bore their true, genuine, febrile, inr flaramatory chai'aaer, and produced their moft frequent event. What perforation of the OS occipitale might have done, I cannot fay; I fear but little, as the matter was not - • ^ onlyFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. fOJ only upon, but underneatli the dura mater, and that too difeafed. CASE XI. CONTUSION WITH WOUNB. A DRAYMAN, drunk, and fleeping, fell from his draj, and his head was fo fqueezed between the wheel and a poft, that a confi- derable portion of the fcalp, together with the pericranium, was forced off from each* parietal bone. He was brought to the hofpital fenfelefs ? he was largely let blood, and the feparated fcalp being fo bruifed and mangled as to afford no probability of re-union, it was removed, and the bone dreffed with dry lint. The next ^ay the man was fo well, and fo per- fectly mafter of what fenfe he had, that I was inclined to believe, that a great deal of the laft night's appearance was owing principally to liquor. In ten days time, the edges of the torn fcalp were digefted, and bore all the appear- ance of fores in a healthy man. One of the parietal bones feemed difpofed to granulate without any exfoliation, the other looked as if it would throw off a fcale. Oh104 INJURIES OF THE HEAi) On the thirteenth day he was fo well, that havmg a large family to work for, he defired to be difcharged from the hofpital, and to be made an out-patient; but his fores were ftill fo large, and I had fo often been deceived by the fallacious appearance of fuch cafes, that I perfuaded him to flay another week. On the fixteenth day he complained much of head-ach, and faid, that he was fick and chilly; on the feventeeiith, the florid, granulated appearance, and laudable matter of the fores, were exchanged for a tawny, glaffy furface, and a plentiful thin gleet. I bled him freely, and bid him keep in bed. On the fame day, toward evening, he had a fhi- vering, and the day following, two more; that parietal bone (the left) which had hi- therto looked as if it would be covered by a crranulation, without exfoliating, now wore fo difeafed an afped, that I fain would have fet a trephine on it immediately, but the man would not permit me. Every other means were ufed, but to no purpofe. The fore on the rioht fide of the head continued to look well,''but the fcalp quitted its adhefion to almbft the whole left parietal bone, which bone looked very unlike to an healthy one. OnFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 105 On the twenty-third day from that of the accident, he died, having been paralytic in his right leg and arm from the twenty^ firfti The appearance of the two fores, as well as of the two bones, were fo different, that I had curiofity to fee the ftate of the parts un- derneath each. On the right fide, the dura mater was in a natural, found, adherent ftate. On the left, it was feparated from almofl the whole bone, and covered plentifully by mat- ter, and was, for about the breadth of an half crown, floughy ; under the Hough the pia mater was difeafed alfo, and matter was alfo formed on the furfacc of the brain. Th6 following cafe was brought into St. Bartholomew's hofpital, while I was con- fined to my houfe by ficknefs. The account therefore of the patient, while living, is as taken by Mr. Earle, my apprentice; and that of the appearance after death, is in the words of the late ingenious Mr. Partridge, who affiled Mr. Earle in the examination of the body. CASEINJURIES OF THE HEAB CASE XIL On the tenth of February, 1765., John Biggs, a lad about thh-teen years old, was driving a horfe round in a grinding mill, the horfe not being ufed to the work, ran round very faft; the boy fell, and received fuch a blow from fome part of the frame in which the horfe worked, that he lay, deprived of fenfe, for fome time, that is, until fome- body came in to inquire why the mill went fo rapid. He had a fmall wound on the right fide of his head, and no other apparent mark of injury. In a few hours, by the affiftance of phlebotomy, he feemed to be very well again. His wound was drefled by the family apothe- cary for a week, Airing which time, he did not feem to have any other complaint, except now and then having a flight head-ach. The wound not healing kindly, the boy being a country boy, hired only for the purpofe of driving the mill-horfe, and the people with whom he lived being tired of keeping him unemployed, he was brought to the hofpital. The wound was not large, and although he didFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE, 107 did not feem to have any other complaint, 3cvas nearly three weeks in healing. On the eighth of March, he was feized with a fever, beginning with a kind of cold £t. On the tenth he was much difordered, complained of acute pain in his head; and his wound, which had been healed, broke put again, the pericranium feparating from the bone ; on the twelfth, he became fenfe- Jefs to all outward objedls, was convulfed in all his limbs, and jaw locked. On this day ^r. Crane trepanned him on the upper, fore and right fide of the frontal bone. On the furface of the dura mater was found a confi- derable quantity of good matter: on the next morning he died.. The dura mater was detached from the cranium for about an inph, all round the per- foration of the bone; what matter had been formed on its furface had been difcharged by the operation, and little or none lodged; the pia mater and brain found in this part. At about two inches diftance from the original wound, higher up, and nearer both to the coronal and fagittal futures, was a fmall mmor about the fize of a fplit garden bean ; mthm this was a very little difcoloured mat- ter.Io8 INJURIES OF THE HEAD tpr, and under it the bone was bare. The dura mater correfponding with this tumor was detached, black and doughy, and a con- fiderable quantity of matter lay under this floughy part, communicating with an ab- fcefs formed between the two hemifpheres of the brain, on the right fide of the falciform procefs. SECT. III. SEPARATION, OR DESTRUCTION OF BOTH TABLES OF THE SCULL, FROM CQNTU^ SIGN, The feparation of a portion of the cranium, confiftiiig of both tables, or of the whole thicknefs, happens. not. unfrequently ni old or negleded venereal diforders. The difeafe, which in thefe cafes has its feat in the diploe, often fpoils the whole fubftance of the bone, and produces a feparation or exfoliation of its whole thicknefs: the dura mater being always found, , in fuch cafe, to be covered only by an incarnation generated from its furface. r i This kind of caries is fometim?s ot laige extent,FROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 10^ extent, in one piece, biit more frequently it is of fmaller fize% and afFefts different parts of the fame fcuU. The feparated piece is generally quite carious, and appears as if it had been worm-eaten, (what the French call vermouliie.) The furface of the bone fo difeafed is feldom much elevated, thou^^h generally fomewhat; neither has it often the circumfcribed form. and appearance of a true node, as it is called; though now and then it has. The fcalp, which covers a bone in this ftate, is moft frequently difeafed alfo; fome- times with one large, ill-conditioned fore; but more often with a number of crude, foul, painful, ferpiginous ulcers ; through moft of which a probe will difcover a rough, bare bone ; and from which is conftantly dif- charged a greafy ftinklng fanies. This com^ plaint is generally accompanied by a nodiur- nal head-ach, pocky fpots, and pains about the breaft and fhoulders; and is almoft always preceded by the former,' though very fre- quently that fymptom ceafes, either during the mercurial courfes, inftituted for that purt " I have feen, iK one cafe, nearly the whole os frontale call •fF; and in another, the whole left parietal bone. pofc,pofe, or when the pericranium covering thi difeafed pairt becomes foul and lloughy. The proportion of extent of furfacej which one table of thefe difeafed pai'ts of the cra^ nium bears to the difeafed part of the other table, is very uncertain^ and often very un^ equal. Sometimes the alteration of the outer table is much more extenfive than that of the inner, in which cafe, when the feparation is made, the detached piece comes away very eafily, and the uncovered part^of the dura mater is fmall, compared to the fize of the external fore; but fometimes, on the con^ trary, the difeafe occupies a more confider^ able extent of the inner table than of the outer, and thereby renders the cafe more difficult, and the cure more tedious. • A mercurial courfe begun even before th6 fcalp covering the difeafed parts fhall have been ulcerated, though it be often fufficient fully and perfedly to eradicate the lues from the habit, will neither prevent, nor cure, this local malady; which will therefore often re^ main, after fuch caufe- of it has been really and totally removed: the bone is thoroughly fpoiled, (at lead in- the parts affeaed) ; and although the difeafe, confidered abftraaedly,FROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE, m be cured, yet the texture of thefe harder parts^ neceflarily requires more time to caft off what is unfound, and to put on a healthy appear- ance, than the fofter do, the local diftemper will remain a long time after. An inatten- tion to, or a mifunderftanding of this circum- ftance, has been the caufe why many people have been haraffed, and even deftroyed with unneceflkry mercurial proceffes, when the complaint has been truly local, which it fre- quently is after proper previous mercurial treatment. Such medicines will be found to be fo .far from haftening the removal, that by Spoiling the conftitution, relaxing the folids', impoverilhing and dilTolving the fluids, and weakenmg the vis vit^, they prevent nature from executing her own purpofe, and really protrad and retard that effed which they ai-e ufed (though injudicioufly) with defiaa to expedite. Mercury is undoubtedly a fp^'ecific for the pox, but it is alfo a poifon. It will cure that and feme other difeafes; but its effeas on the human frame are neither liaht nor fuperficial. It becomes beneficial or p're- judicial, according to the manner in which it IS apphed ; and when it ceafes to do good. It Will moft certainly do harm. This, though1 iI2 INJURIES 67 THE HEAD though a Very flagrant inftance of it, is not the only one which might be jiroduced ; the fame obfervation might be made^ on the ma- ladies proceeding from a difeafed proftate* and urethra, producing indurations^ and fil- tulse in pernieo, in which the perfiftance m the ufe of mercurials, after the producuig lues has been cured^ has' cofl many a man his life.' : by aggravating and continuing that fymptomatic heaic fever, (the neceffary con- fequence of pain and irritation) which it fl.ould be the whole: bufinefs of art to calm and attemperate. In all thefe cafes, a ftrong decoaion.-of farfaparilla with milk for the common drink, a foft nutritive diet, a cleat air, and the free ufe of the Peruvian bark, will be found to be more conducive to^the patient's recovery, than any continued ufe of mercury. By the former he will be reftored and ftrengthened, by the latter he will be irri- tated, wafted-and deftroyed. The.-fame kind bf " exfoliation of feparation- of both tables of the cranium; -is fometimes the confequence of mer^ external v^olence^^^ of the dieloe.' " Antequam de CahanxFlCdM EXTERNAL VldLEWCEl II^ The four following examples, whicli have fallen within my own knowledge, I fhall relate without any comment. CASE xiir; , A gentleman's coachman was throwri from his box, on the road between London and Richmond, and received a wound in his forehead, which divided the pericranium, and denuded the bone about an inch aboVe the finus. The man received no other harm ill the fall; the lips of the wound were brought together by future, and he drove home. The next day his mafleri whb was a go« Vernor of St. Bartholomew's, and a timorous man, fent. the patient into that houfe. As he feemed perfedly well, and the wound " definamus, iHud non eft pr^teremidum, utraque ejus tabula - prorfus ilfefa, illififq^e fubjedarum nienirigum vafis, ac- cxdere ahciuandp ab idlu valido obtufi corporis, ut vafcuh, qua: inter tabulas medulla; fubferviunt, rumpantur, & fan- g"'"^'^ fundant; qui proceden'te tempore corruptus, eoque , fa£lus, quod fuccos medullofus admifceatur, qui tuin mora et calore. in peflimam degeneret rancedinem, interio- " "^"'^ "."^ 5 hominique, jam idlu oblito, 8c nihil ejufmodi timenti, mtro defluens. meninges vitict ne- " Di SMus ^ Cuu/is, Sec. 1 . looked114 INJURIES OF THE HEAI? looked as if it would unite without any trou- ble, I, dreffed him only with a fuperficial pledget. This did' not fucceed,^ and the edges, inftead of uniting, became fpongy. I therefore ordered him to be drefl"ed with a little dry lint, thinking that the bare bone would foon throw off a fmall fcale, and finifh the matter. At the end of three weeks every thing was exaaly in the fame ftate ; the bone bare, and not likely to exfoliate, and the edges fpongy. Being in perfed health, the man was tired of the confinement of the hofpital, and was permitted to go home, taking dreff- ings with him. At the end of two months from the date -of the fall, he returned to the hofpital again, and defn-ed me to look at his fore; which was not only not healed, but difcharged much too large a quantity of matter. The openmg was about the fize of a filver three-pence, ■ round, foft, and fpongy: upon feeling with -a probe, I thought that the bone receded too much for a mere loofe exfoliation, and as the bone receded, the difcharge of matter in- creafed. Upon repeated trials, 1 was tho- rouo-hly fatisfied thiit both thefe circumftances wer'e true, and alfo that the loofe piece was muchinych too large to be extraded from the pre- lent opening. I conlidered, that the removal of a circulaii- piece of Ikin woulcl leave a jfcar, v^hic],i would not only be a great d#rrni^y,,,b^t^ .deformity which WQiild be liable to, mifcon- ,#ruaions; and'as there were no 'bad fymp.- toms to be obviated, nor any thing to be done, but merely to .remove the loofe portion of boiie, I made a longitudinal incifion, fuffi- cient for its extradion, and laying hold of it with a pair of forceps, brought it away. It was the whole thicknefs of the cranium, in every part firm, hard and perfedly .white ; and it left the dura mater covered by a florid healthy incarnation. I laid the divided fcalp down upon the membrane, without any in- tervening drefling, and the fore healed in a few days. CASE XIV. An elderly woman riding in a hacknev landau, by a fudden jolt ftruck her head with great violence againfl an iron hook at the top of It, put there to hold the two parts of the roof together. The blow gave her exquifite ^ . painNo exfoliation was found m tllf matter-, or .Il6 IlJjURIES or TbE HEAfi fain for the inftant, but that foon ceafed; and as it caufed neither wound nor tumefaaion, ihe took no farther notice of it. At the end ■of near two months, (he was feized with a Violent pain in her head; fo violent, that for feverkl nights (he was obliged to have re- courfe to laudairam, in order to obtain a little broken reft. In about a week her pain went off, and a tumor afofe, juft where Ihe had been ftricken; that is, juft in the middle of the faggital future. Mr. Brown, of Little Britaiii, had the care t,f her; with him I faw her ; we opened ths tumor, and difcharged a confiderable quan- tity of difcoloured and very offenfive matter. I paffed my finger into the opening, and to my -reat aftonlihment found it touched the dura'mater. We removed a circ^ar piece of the fcalp, and found the two ofla panetalia bare, and carious for a confiderable extent on each fide of the future ; and in the middle of tHs carious piece, juft in the traa of the fu- ture, a hole large enough to admit eafily any man's finger, without touching the edges ot the bone. ,4 Hev FROM UKTMRf^Al, .y.IQ^ENCE. I.Ijr: on \.lie ipembrj^ne the dwa mater lay at a coflfiderable diftance from the fcUH, in that- paft;. the difcharge from within was laro-c ^Ud very ofFenfive; and about three weeks- from the time of opening, l]ie died fuddeqly ill a kind of fit. ■ CASE xy. Xn the middle of September 1763, a woman' about fixty years old f^li down flairs back- wards ; fhe was ftunned by the blow which her head received from one of the fteps, and lay fenfelefs fome time. There was neither \yound nor confiderable bruife ; ihe was let blood, and kept quiet for fome few days; at th? end of which, finding no inconvenience either general or particular, fhe ceafed to regard it, -On the eighteenth of December, fhe w35 taken into the hofpital, for a fweUing on the right fide of her head, nearly of the lize of a fpht Seville orange. This tumor, fhe faid, had been preceded by a fevere he^^d-ach with- out fever; but as (he did not then believe that her fall had any lhare in the pvoduaiou of her. prelent complaint, Oie laid nothino- about it. * Iri8^ '.PKJWms 6t TWE HEAD ^ Mfep.Head^betog fliaVfed^ tihe'^Wmot Appeared' full'^of; fluid J I'diVMed'the fcalp, and -let &ttt a quantity of •gFeafy'6Cdnfiv& '£^^ Upda farther examination, the bone was found to be (bare, and cariousr I removed fuch a porv tion of fcalp as brought the whole intd vieW". The natural texture of the bone was de- ftroyed, and in it were feveral holes, through which a probe might ea-filj^'be paffed,'land from w^hich matter w^s* difeharged in -fiicil • itianne'r, an'd with fiieh motion, as plainly proved that it-came fr'oin witMtt the ea¥iiy'6f' thefbuil. -'-^ zry.--\ - She remained' in 'the liofpita't Until the middle-'pf. March'r during which time-''ii^d iilterationi appeared' iri any part of the l>ar& bone. The affairs-of her fafnily now required'het*. to be at home. ^She was • itl perfect good health ■ y?ak difeharged from the hofpital; afid aS'fb'e lived very near td me, diie of my" yowng gentlemen undertook to take care' 6f her. . On the twenty-eighth of March lyHn a fmall part of the bare bone came away, aiid left the dura mater covered by an.healthy jcarnation ; and on the twelfth of April fol- iowing, the whole remainder, being about a thirdFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. II9 third part of the parietal bone, did the fame. From firft to lafi: fhe had no kind of uneali-i nefs, and the fore healed without any trouble. C A S E XVI. IN that ever menjdrable defence, made hy Capt. Gilchrift, oij board (as I think) the Southampton man of War, againft^ a moft ihameful fuperiority of French force, a failor received a fevere blow on his head by a large fplinter: a fmall wound and a conhderable bruife were the immediate confequence ; but they were fo foon well, that the man did duty in a few days. At about feven weeks diftance from the time of the accident, he began to complain of great pain in his head ; which pain in a few days rendered him fo in- capable, that he was put into the hofpital at Gofport. He remained there about three weeks, frequently but not conflantly in pain; and during that time h^d three or four fits, like epileptic ones. He was now fent to St. Bartholomew's hofpital, and put under the care of Dr. Pitcairn, by whofe order he was bled, purged, I 4 and120 INJURIES OF THE HEAD and took feveral medicines. The man hav-i ing one day mentioned the circumftance o£ the blow, the do£tor defired that I might examine him. There was not the leafl degree of fwellins: or inflammation, no mark or veftige of a fear, nor any elevation of the fcalp, or fluc- tuation of fluid under it. While I was exa- mining his head, he had a flight attack of ipafm; but on my defifting, he became eafy ahd tranquil. Th^ circumfl:ance of this attack, while I was preffing upon the part, did not at that inlliant ftrike me as worthy notice, but upon refledtion it appeared much fo. The next day I made the fame experiment, with the fame efFe(St; that is, upon hard prefllire he became convulfed, which conyuHion ceafed upon removing the fingers, but was followed by a rigor. On the following day I ventured to repeat the experiment; but the man was fo inimediately and fo terribly convulfed, that I deterrhined never to try it again. I informed his phyfician of all that had pafTed, and we agreed, that confidering the inefficacy of all that had hitherto been done, and what had lately happened, the mofl: pro.? bableFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 121 The bable method of attempting, his relief would be, by denuding and perhaps perforating the cranium, in the place where the prefllire pro- duced fo ftrange an effedl. The next day I removed a circular piece of the fcalp, and found the pericranium not ©f a healthy or found colour, nor adherent to the bone ; which bone was carious, and had feveral fmall hofes in it, through which a fanies rofe an<l fell, according to the motion of the blood in the brain. I applied a large trephine, without any regard to the future, and removed a piece of fcull. During the time of the operation, the poor man fuffered greatly from fpafm ; but that over he became cafy and quiet. The dura mater was detached from the fcull, and had matter on its furface; which matter was extremely ofFenfive. The enfu- jng night he paffed ill; and the next day had fuch a rigor, that I verily thought it was the laft trouble the man could have. The day after this I found him vaflly better ; the dif- charge from his head had been large, but he had not fuffered any return either of fpafm or rigor, and his principal complaint was extreme lownefs.iZZ INJURIES OF THE HEAD' , The phyfician. prefcribed for him ;. his medkmes agreed well with him^ -and every thing for feveral days wore a favourable afped; On a fudddn, he was feized'.with all the fymptoms of a peripneumony, and, on the third day from that feizure, /died. No apparent caufe of mifchief was found either within or on the outfide of the heaci, the durl jnater was well incarned, and ho4odgnient of jpaatter. SECT. IV. FISSURES AKP FRACTU^E^ .. , .,THE CRA- J^IUM, WITHOUT DEPRES5J[.9.Nt Fractures of the cranium -^^'ei-a, by the ^ntient writers,' divided into many different forts, each of whidh W£ts diftingUii^ied by sppeliation of Grteek -dtymologr,' b6rrowed cither from the figure of thfe fraaure, or the difpofitxpn of the-broken pieces, Thefe are to be found in moft of the old books, but as they merely load the memory, without in- forming the underftanding, or affifling the praaitioner, modern authors have generally laid them a fide. ■FROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. I2J This kind of injury is divifible into twQ general heads, viz. thofe in which the broken parts keep their proper level, or equality of lurface, with the reft of the fcull, and thofc in which they do not; or, in other words, fra<5tures' without 'depreffion, and fradlures with. Thefe two diftin£lions are ajl which are T^t^iy nidceffary to be made, and will be found to comprehend every violent / divifion of the parts of the fcull, (not made by a cutting- ^nftrument) from the fineft capillaiy fifiure, pp to the moft comphcated fraclure : for fif- fures and fradlures, differing from each other only in the width of the breach, or in the diftance of the feparated parts, and the difpov fition of broken pieces, in large fra£iures, be- ing fubjed to an alnioft infinite variety, dif- fin£lions and appellations drawn and made from thefe circumftances might be multiplied to even three times the old number, without impai ing the fmalleft degree of ufeful know- ledge to the man, who fliould be at the pains to get them by heart. What are the lymptoms of a fradlured cra- nium ? is often alked; and there is hardly any one who does not, from the authority of writers.INJURIES OF THE HEAD writers, both antient and modern, anfwer, vomiting, giddinefs, lofs of fenfe, fpeech, and voluntary motion, bleeding at the ears, nofe, and mouth, &c, Thi^ is the doftrine of Ce|fus, which Jias been moft ■ invariably copied by ajmoft all fucceeding authors, an4 implicitly believed by almoft all readers The fymptoms juft mentioned do indeed very fi'equently accompany a broken fcuU, but they are not produced by the breach made in the bone ; nor do they indicate fuch breach to have been made. They proceed from an affe6lion of the brain, or from injury ^one to fome of the parts within the cra- nium, independent of any ill which the bones compofing it ma.y have fuftained.^ They are occalioned by violence offered to the contents of the head in general; are quite independent of the mere breach made in the bone; and pither do, or do not accompany fra£lure, as fuch fracture may happen to, be or not to be complicated with. fucl\ other ills, * " Igltur ubi percuffa eft calvaria, protjnus requirendum ** eft, num bilem is homo vomuerit, num oeuli ejus obcKcati " fint; num per nares, aurcfve fanguls ei effluxerit; num *' conciderit; num fine fenfu quafr dormicns jacuerit ? &c. h<ec enim non mji offcfracio eveniunt.'* TheyFR6M external VIOLEi^CE. iij They are frequently produced by extravl- fations of blood, or ferum, upon, or between the membranes of the brain; or by fliocks, or concuflions of its fubftanccj in cafes where the fcull is perfedly intire and unhurt. Ori the other hand, the bones of the fcull are .fometimes cracked, broken, nay even de- prefled, and the patient fuffers none of thefe /ymptoms^ In fhort, as the breach made -in the bone is not, nor can be the caufe of fuch complaints, they ought not to be attri- .buted to it; and that for reafons which arc by no means merely fpeculative. For the praditioner^ who fuppofes that fuch fymp- toms do neceffarily and certainly imply that the cranium: is fradured, muft regulate his condua by fuch fuppofition, and remove the " Si l?e{us inftar dormlentis fenfus expers deprehendatur ; " fi-oculi ejus obcjecati fuerint; ft obmutuerit; fi bilem vo^ muerit; fi aniiftalis inflar malleo itW conciderlt; hsC omnia " maximam & fubitaneam fignificant cerebri commotionein, r perturbationem, ac concuflionem ^ua no«, rara iniegro mxi- " vente, nec ulla ex parte rupto .cranio^ mortem percuflb ad- " ferunt.'* - . - : - ' -p • Pet. Paavv. " Dans les playes de tete, les accidens que les auteurs aif- ciens ont Vppcllesprimitifs-parcequ'ils arrivent dans.l'inltant " meme de la bleffure^ ne font nullement des accidens,„ni des " fignes, de la fraaure fubfillant, mals des accidens; & des fignes, de la commotion de cerveau."" Lk DR^Af/. fcalp,* ilS INJURIES OF THE HEAIS ifcalp, very often without either necefTity di* benefit; that is^ xvithout difcovering what he looks for : and, on the other hand, if he does find the fcpU to be broken, beheving all thefe complaints to be caufed by, and deducible from the frafture, he Will moft probably pay his whole attention to that fuppofed caufej and may think, that when he has done what the rules of his art prefcribe for fuch cafe^ he has done all that is in his power i-^an opi- nion not infrequently embraced ; and which has been the deftru£lion of many a patient* For, as on the one hand, the lofs of fenfe^ fpeech, and voluntary rriotion, as well as the haemorrhage from the nofe, ears, &c. are fometimes totally removed by, or at leaft .difappear during the ufe of free and ft-equent evacuation, without any operation on the fcaip of fcuU; fo on the other, as thefe fymptoms and appearances are not pro- duced by the folution of continuity of the bone, they cannot be remedied by fuch chi- nireic treatment as the mere fradure may require. * ^ If any one doubts the truth of this doc- trine, I would defire him to confider the na- ture, as well as moft generally fuccefsful me- thodFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 12^ thod of treating thefe fymptoms; and, atv the fame time, to refle<Sl ferioufly on the oper- ation of the trepan, as pradifed in fimpie, undepreffed fractures of the fcull. The licknefs, giddinefs, vomiting, and lofs of fenfe and motion, can only be the con- lequence of an affedlion of the brain, as the common fenforium. They may be produced by its having been violently fhaken, by a de- rangement of its medullary flrudlure, or by lumatural preffure made by a fluid extrava- fated on its furface, or within its ventricles ; but never can be caufed by the mere divifioii of the bone, (confidered abfl:ra<3:edly) which divifion, in a fimple fra£lure, can neither prefe on nor derange the flrudure of the parts within the cranium. If the Iblution of continuity in the bone be either produced by fuch a degree of violence, ■as hath caufed a confiderable difturbance in the medullary parts of the brain, or has difturbed any of the fun6tions of the nerves going off from it, or has occafioned a breach of any veflel, or veffels, whether fi\ngulne or lymphatic, and that hath been followed by an extravafation, or lodgment of fluid, the fymptoms neceflarily confequent upon fuch - ■ derangement,tizS i^rjl^RtES OF THE MeAI> derangemertt, or fuch preffure, folIoW ? but they do tibt follow bfecatife the bone broken; their caufes are fiiperadded to the fradlure, and although produced by the fame External violence, are yet perfe£lly and abfo- lutely independent bf itj fo nluch fo, that, as I have already obferved, they are frequently found where no fra^lure is: The operation of the trepan is frequently- performed ill the cafe of fimple fradtures, and •that very judicioufly and properly ; but it rs not performed becaufe the bone is broken, or cracked : a mere frafture, or fiffure of the fcull, can never require perforation, or that the dura mater under it be laid bare; the rea- fon for doing this^ fprings from other caufes than the fra6lure, and thofe really indepeir- •dent oii it. They fpring from the nature of ,the mifchief which the parts within the cra- nium have fuftained, and not from the acci- dental divifion of the bone. From thefe arife the threatening fymptoms; from thefe all the hazard; and from thefe the neeeffityj and vindication of performing the operation of the trepan. If a funple fradure of the cranium was iinatfended in prefent with any of the before^ mentionedFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 129 mentioned fymptoms, and there was no rea- fon for apprehending any other evil ia future, that is, if the folution- of continuity in the bone was the whole difeafe, it could not pof- fibly indicate any other curative intention, but the general one in all fra£lures, viz. union of the divided parts. But how can fuch union be promoted or affifled by perforation ? it mofl: certainly cannot; and yet perforation is ab- folutely neceflary in feven cafes out of ten, of fimple undepreffed fradures of the fcull. Let us for a moment inquire why it is fo. The reafons for trepanning in thefe cafes are, firft, the immediate reUef of prefent fymptoms arifing from preflure of extravafated fluid; or fecond, the difcharge of matter formed be- tween the fcull and dura mater, in confe- quence of inflammation ; or third, the pre- vention of fuch mifchief, as experience has fhewn may moft probably be expeded from fuch kind of violence offered to the laft-men- tioned membrane. Thefe are the only rea- fon's that can be given for perforating the fcull, in the cafe of an undepreffed frafture; and very good, and-very juftifiable reafons they are, but not drawn from the fradture. ^ In the firfl cafe (that of an extravafated Vol. I . fluid13° INJURIES OF THE HEAD fluid within the cranium,) the relief from perforation is not only fometimes immediate, but frequently is not attainable by any other means. This is a fufEcient proof, not only of its utility, but of its neceflity. In the fecond, of formation of matter (be- tween the fcull and dura mater,) it is the uni- cum remedium; there is no natural outlet by which fuch matter can efcape; and the only chance of life is from the operation. In the third, that of mere frafture without depreffion of bone, or the appearance of fuch lymptoms as indicate commotion, extravafa- tion, or inflammation, it is ufed as a preven- tative, and therefore is a matter of choice, more than immediate neceffity. Many praditioners, both antient and mo- dern, have therefore difufed and condemned it; and have, in cafes vv'here there have been no immediate bad fymptoms, advifed us to leave the fradure to nature, aaid not to perf9rm the operation as a preventative, but to wait until its neceflity m^y be indicated by fuch fymp- toms as may both require and vindicate it. This is a point of the utmofl: confequence in pradice, and ought to be very maturely cpn- fidereda 1 TheyFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 131 They who objed to the early ufe of the trephine, fpeak of it as being frequently im,, jieceflary, and as rendering the patient liable to feveral inconveniencies which may arife from uncovering the dura mater, before there is any good, or at leaft any apparent reafon . for fo doing. And in fupport of this their opinion, they alledge many inftances of fimple fradure which have been long undifcovered, without being attended with any bac^, fymp- toms ; and of others which, though known and attended to from the firft, have done very wtW without fuch operation. They who advife the immediate ufe of the inftrument, do it upon a prefumption, that, in confiderable violence received by the head, fuch mifchief is done to the dura mater, and the veffels by which it is connected to the cranium, that inflammation of the faid mem- brane muft follow; which inflammation ge- nerally produces a colledion of matter, and a fymptomatic fever, which moft frequently baffles all our art, and ends in the deflruftion of the patient. What the former aflert is undoubtedly fometimes true. There have been feveral in- ilances of undeprefled fradures of the fcuU, K 7i which,1^2 INJURIES OF THE HEAD which, either from having been undifcovered at firft, or negledled, or having been under the care of a pradlitioner who has difliked the operation, have done very well without it. This is certainly true, but is not fufficient to found a general rule of praftice upon: in matters of this fort, a few inftances are by no means fufficient to eftablifh a precedent: what has been, or may accidentally prove beneficial to a few, may be pernicious to the multitude: that which is found to be moft frequently ufeful, is what we ought to abide by, referving to ourfelves a liberty of deviat- ing from fuch general rule in particular cafes. This is one of thofe perplexing circum- flances, which all writers lament, and all praaitioners feel, but which, inftead of merely complaining of, we fhould endeavour, as much as iri us lies, to correft. In order to obtain what information we can on this fubjea, welhould confider, firft, what the mifchiefe are which may moft probably be expefted to follow, or which moft fre- c^uently do follow, when perforation has been too long deferred, or totally neglefted ; fe- condly, what prejudice or inconvenience does feally arife from, or is thought to be caufed byFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. I'^^ by the operation itfelf, confidered ^bftradl- iedly; and thirdly, what proportion the num- ber of thofe who have done well without itj bears to that of thofe who may truly be faid to have been loft for want of itj or of thofe to whom it might have afforded fome chance of relief. With regard to the firft, I have already bb- ferved in the cafe of fimple undepreffed frac- tures, whenever the trephine is applied, it muft be with defign either to relieve, or to prevent ills arifing from other mifchief than the mere breach in the bone ; which breach, ' confidered iimply and abftraftedly, can nei- ther caufe fuch ills, nor be relieved by fuch operation. One, and that the mofl frequent bf thefe mifchiefs is, the inflammation, de- tachment, and fuppuration of the dura mater, and confequently the colledion of matter be- tween it and the fcull; a cafe, of all others attending wobncls of the head, the moft preff- ing, the moft hazardous, and the le^ift within our power to relieve. On this fubjed, I have expreffed my fentiments fo much at large, under the preceding article contiifton, that it is needlefs to repeat them here* I fhall there- fore take the liberty of referring the reader K 3 backij4- Injuries of the head back to that, and only remind him of a cir- cumftance well worth his attending to, viz, that there are no immediate or early marks or lymptoms, whereby he can certainly know, whether fuch kind of mifchief is done or not; and that when fuch complaints come on, as indicate that fuch mifchief has been received, although the operation is all that is in our power to do, yet it is very frequently unfuc- cefsful''. Indeed the only probable method of * The ftate of the dura mater, under fiinple fraftures and filTures of the cranium, has been very nicely obferved, and very juftly defcribed, by forae of the bell writers of anti- quity. " Si ad cerebri membranam ufque pervenerit fraftura, non *' rademus, fed agnofcere conabimur utrum membrana ab offe recefferit, an affixa permaneat. Si enim ipfa manet, inflammatio nulla infeftat vulnus, & pus coftum apparet. " Si ceflerit membrana, augentur dolores, & febris fimiliter; " OS alium fumit colorem; pus tenue, & crudum effertur; & fi medicus negligenter rem traftat, nec fcrforatione utitur, *' hoc graviora fymptomata aboriuntur ; nempe bilis vomitus, convulfio, mentis delirium, & febris acuta." Paulus ^gineta. *' Dice debet dari fignum frafturs, a qua removeatur pan- ** niculus groflus. In primo debes fcire difpofitionem fyphae; utfum eft adherens, an non ; videlicet, fi adhseferit ofli non " fiet in vulnus apoftema calidum; & licet accidit, modicum " erit; aerugo manabit de eo modica; & putredo crit digefta, *f Sed fi fuerit remotus, vehementiores erunt dolores, & febres, " mutabiturFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 135 of preventing this evil feems to be, the re- moval of fuch a part of the fcull, as by being broken appears plainly to have been the part where the violence was inflidted; and which, if the dura rnater becomes inflamed, and quit- ting its connexion fuppurates, will, in' all probability, cover and confine a colledlion of qiatter, for which nature has provided no outlet. This 1 take to be, not only the beft, but the only good reafon, for the early ufe of the trephine in fimple undepreffed fractures of the fcull: and I muft add, that it appears to me- to be fully fufficient to vindicate and authorife it. That it frequently fails of fuc- cefs, is beyond all doubt ; the extent and de- gree of the mifchief being too great for it to relieve ; but that it has preferved many a life, which muft have been loft without it, lam as well fatisfied of, as I ain^of any truth which repeated experience may have taught me. In matters of this fort, pofitive proof and " mutabltur color cflls, & corrumpetur, & manebit de eo " putredo tenuis." Rhazes. Si rima fit in fuperficic, cerebri membrana non abfce- dente, eadem adhibeatur, quce ad os nudatum demonftrata " ell: cerebri vero membrana abfcedente, & humore ibi col- lefto, poll primos curationis dies ad terebram properandum " eft," &c. Oribasius, 4 convidiou136 tNJtJRIES 0^ TliE ft£AO eonvidion are not in our power j all that wfi can do is, by making a comparifon of the con- du£l and event of a number of fimilar cafes, to come as near to truth as we can, and tc get probability on our fide. The fecond confideration which I propofcd to be made was, what mifchief or inconve- nience may moft reafonably be fuppofed to follow, or to proceed from the mere opera- tion confidered abftradledly. They who are averfe to the ufe of it, as a preventative, al- ledge that it occafions a great lofs of time; that it is frequently quite unneceffary; and, that the admiffion of air to the dura mater, as well as the laying of it bare, is neceffarily prejudicial. The former of thefe is undoubtedly true r ^ a perfon whofe fcuU has been perforated, cannot poflibly be well (that is, cured) in fo fhort a fpace of time, as one who has not un- dergone fuch operation; fuppofing fuch per- fon to have fuftained no other injury than the mere fradure: and if the majority of the people, whofe fculls are broken, were fo lucky as to fuftain no other injury, that is, if no other mifchief was in thefe cafes in ge- neral done to the parts contained within the 4 fcull,FROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. I fcull, the objedion to perforation would be real and great, and the operation a matter of more ferious conlideration. But this is fel- dom, too leldom the cafe; by much the larger number of thofe, who fufFer a fra6lure of the fcull, are injured with regard to other parts, and labour under mifchief of another kind, additional to the frafture; that is, the parts within the cranium are injured as well as the cranium itfelf. This being the cafe, the lofs or wafte of a little time ceafes to be an object of fo great importance. The ha- zard, which it is fuppofed may be incurred from laying bare the dura mater, is indeed a matter of fome weight, fo much fo, that it certainly ought not to be done, but for very good reafons ; and yet, although I am clearly of this opinion, I think that I may venture to lay, that let the fuppofed hazard be what it may, it cannot in the nature of things be by any means equal to that which muj^ be in- curred by not doing it, when fuch operation becomes neceffary. In fhort, if we would form a right judgment of this point, the queftion concerning it ought to ftand thus ; Is the chancQ of ill which way proceed from merelyr^S INJURIES OF THE HEAD merely denuding the dura mater, equal to that of its being fo hurt by the blow, as to inflame, and fuppurate ? Or is the mifchief which may be incurred by mere' perforation of the fcull, equal to the good which it may produce ? Thefe queftions. Let thofe who have feen moft bufinefs of this kind, and who are therefore the beft judges, confider and de- termine. For my own part, I have no doubt, that although by eftablifhing it as a general rule to perforate in all cafes, fome few would now and then be fubjefted to the operation, who might'have done very well without it; yet, by the fame practice, many a valuable life would be preferved, which muft inevi- tably be loft without it, there being no de- gree of comparifon between the good to be derived from it, when ufed early, as a pre- ventative, and what may be expe6led, if it be deferred till an inflammation of the dura mater and a fymptomatic fever make it ne- ceffary. The third confideration, viz. what pro- portion the number of thofe who have efcaped without the operation, bears to that of thofe who have perifhed for want of it, is in great meafureJTROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. t^^ meafure included in the two preceding; at leaft the determination of them, muft alfo determine this. My own opinion muft, till I find reafon to alter it, be the rule of my own condud ; and though i would not by any means pretend to obtrude the former on any one, yet I think it in fbme meafure incumbent upon me in this place to give it. The number of cafes of this kind, M'hich are neceflarily brought into a large hofpital fo fituated as Bartholomew's is, in the middle of a populous city, where all kinds of ha- zardous labour are carried on, has enabled me to make many obfervations on them; and although I have now and then feen fome few of them do well without the ufe of the tre- phine, yet, the much greater number, whom I have feen perifh with colle6lions of matter within the cranium, who have not been per- forated, and for whom there is no other relief in art or nature, has, I muft acknowledge, rendered me fo very cautious and diffident, that although I will not fay, that I would always and invariably perform the operation, in every cafe of fimple fradlure ; yet the cafe muft be. particularly circumftanced, the pro- fpe€tINJURIES OF THE HEAD fpe(^ much fairer than it moil; frequently iS) and: my prognoftie delivered in the moft guarded apprehenfive manner, when I omit it. I fhould be forry to be fo mifunderftood, as to have it fuppofed that I mean to fay,- that I think the denudation of the dilra mater a matter of abfolute indifference, or that no ill can proceed from it; this, I know, is a point concerning which the beft practitioners have differed, and concerning which, we ftill fland in need of information; but I think I may venture to fay, what is fully to my pre-^- lent purpofe, viz. that enlarging.t'he opening .of a fradture, by means of a trephine, will not produce or occafion much rifque or hazard^ additional to what mufl be occafioned by the fracture itfelf: that has already let in the air iipon the membrane, and therefore that con^^ fideration is, at leaft in fome degree, at an end-; and the principal point to be determined ftill remains the fame, viz. whether upon a fuppofition, that the dura mater may polfibly not have been fo injured as to inflame and fuppurate in future^ the operation ought not to be pradifed as a preventative, but on the contrary, ought rather to be deferred until worfe fymptoms indicate the necefhty of it ? orFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. T4J or whether it ought in general to be per- formed early, in order, if poffible, to prevent and guard againft very probable, as well as very terrible mifchief ? I know that it may be faid, that a fradure, if of any confiderable lize, or whofe edges are fairly diftant and unconnected, will of itfelf make fome way for difcharge from within ; and fo it certainly may, and does, in the cafe of an effufion of fluid blood ; but even in this it very feldom proves fufficient for the purpofe. But does not the diflant fe- paration of 4:he edges imply greater feparation of the attaching veflHs of the dura mater ? and does not experience too often prove this to be the cafe ? In truth, the great advantage which is fometimes derived from confiderable fradures, is moft frequent in thofe cafes where portions of bone are fo loofe as to be removeable, which removal of bone ftands in place of perforation, and makes much more for the neceffity of the operation in other cafes than againfl it, if properly con- iidered. I may poffibly be told, that Hildanus, Wifeman, and others of great and deferved feputation, have been of the former opinion. I know142 INJURIES OF THE HEAD s I know they have; and when I differ from thefe, or any other good authority, I hope that I fhall always do it with caution and dif- fidence ; but I hope alfo, that I (hall never hefitate to differ from any and every autho- rity, when I think that I have truth on my fide, and the good of mankind in my view. The above-mentioned writers, together with almofl all their cotemporaries, had, iii funple fradlures of the fcull, but one contemplation, the extravafation of blood; this they regarded as the c-aufe both of the early fymptoms, and of the late ones; confidering it as jafting either by preffure or putrefadtion; and therefore, when there was no immediate fign of fuch extravafation from the effeds of preillire, they faw no necefTity for early or immediate per- foration. But had they not forgotten the uni- verfal adhefion of the dura niater to the cra- nium; had they not, without any, or in- deed contrary to all authority from anatomy, formed to themfelves an erroneous idea of the difpofition of thofe parts, with regard to each otherhad they conceived rightly of the confequences of an inflammation and detach- ment d Some of the writers of this time fpeak of the fuppofed va- cuity between the dura mater and fcull, as being calculated forFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 143 ment of that membrane, I am much incHiied to believe, that they would have altered their opinion, and not in general have left pene- trating fra6lures of the fcull to nature; al- though they had, in fome meafure, the autho- rity of Celfus for fo doing ^ Before the reception of extravafated fluid, in cafe of accident: which opinion reminds me of that of a much later writer, who fays, " that the os unguis was made fo thin, for its more eafy per- f foration in the operation of the £ftula lacrymalis.'' « " In omni vero fi/To fraftove offe, protinus antiquiores " medici, ad ferramenta veniebant quibus id exciderent. Sed " multo melius eft ante emplaftra experiri, qus calvaris caufa " componuntur," &c. Celsus, Whoever has ^n inclination to amufe himfelf with the differ- ent opinions of different writers on the fubjeft of perforating, or not perforating, will find them in Palfyn, Rohalt, and many others. ■ But that the frequent ill effedls of neglefting this operation were not unattended to by many, the following quotation, taken from a number of fimilar ones, may evince : " Et fcias, ficut volunt veteres, quod non eft excufatio ab " incifione, remotione cranii, cum in eo penetrans fradura " fit; & hasc propter duo; primo quod os capitis, ficut dic- " turn eft, debilem facit porum. Secundo, quia fi, olTejara ^' reftaurato, acciderit interius (quantocunque modice) gene- f ratio faniei, vel alicujus humoris fuperflui expellendi, quo- " modo, jam reftaurato offe, pcffst expelli," &c. " Primum notabile eft iflud, quod in fradlura cranii debes - prohibere apoftema, ne accidat in cerebro aut in panniculls, " Sec. Tertium, notabile fit iftud ; quod fi intentio medici f folum elTetj in occupatione folutionis continuitatis, vel frac- ** tur«.144 INJURIES OF THE HEAD Before I enter upon the account of the prefent and moft proper method of treating fimple undepreffed fradtures of the fcull, it may perhaps be not amifs to make a fhort inquiry into the opinions which our remofe anceftors have delivered down to us on this fubjeca, to take a curfory view of their inten- tion and condufl, and to'examine whether the difference between their praftice and ours be well grounded or not; it being neither antiquity nor novelty, but utility only, which can demand our regard. That extravafation of blood, and forrnation ©f matter between the fcull and membranes of the brain, were the two principal caufes of bad fymptoms and of death in fradures of the cranium, and that the only rational me. thod of obtaining relief in either cafe was, by making fuch an opening in the bone as would give difcharge to the faid fluids, was full as well known to our anceftors as to us. Their intention and ours therefore were eflentially alike, and the material difference between our condua and theirs confifts in the manner in, turjB, flanteapoaemate, multa mala accidentia poffent con- " fequi, Ut corruptio panniculi, febris, apoplexia, rigor," &c, ^ - Bertapal. andFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. and the iiiftruments by which we endeavour to execute fuch intention. If the breach in the bone was fmall, and no fymptoms of im- mediate extravafation attended, their principal apprehenfion was, that the fanies, or matter, which they fuppofed muft neceffarily be exr- creted from the edges of the fra6lure, would drop down, lodge, and be colleded on the furface of the dura mater. To prevent this evil, they endeavoured to enlarge the fradure by abrafion of its edges, by means of fcalpra, or rugines. Thefe fcal- pra were many in number, and various- iit their fize and figure, according to the opinion or whim of the praftitioner. Figures of thefe are to be feen in many writers; in An- dreas a Cruce, in Scultetus, in Fabritius ab Aquapendente, in Berengarius, &c. &c. &c ^. But whoever examines them, and attends to their propofed ufe, will find them liable to great objedlion ; he will find that the ufe of them mufl be irkfome to the patient, tedioua " Ex frafturis vero quae ad cerebri membranas pervene- " runt, fi fimplex fradura fit, angulHs fcalpris utendum; fm cum contufione aliqua, quod contufum eft excidi dedebit$ " idque^ vel terebellis prius in circuitum foratum, ac mox " fcalpris admotis, vel protinus ab initio cyclifcis," Galen. Vol. I. L toINJURIES OF THE HEAD to the operator, and unequal to the end pro- pofed. That by fuch kind of inftrument the opening of a fmall fradlure may be enlarged, is beyond all doubt; but if the breach be at all large, or of any length, fuch method of enlarging it muft at beft be a very operofe one; it muft jar ^nd fhake the patient's head immoderately ; if executed unlkilfully, or in- attentively, it muft be attended with hazard of wounding the dura mater; and when fi- niflied, could not properly anfwer the purpofe for which it was deligned. Of thefe defedls, fome of the pradlitioners- were ia fome meafure fenfible; and therefore, if the fra6lure was of fuch fize, or So circum- ftanced, that thefe fcalpra abraforia would moft probably prove infufficient, that is,* if the accident was produced by fuch force, or attended with fuch degree of contufion, as to render it probable that the parts within were injured, they did not then depend upon this method by abrafton, but had recourfe to others, by which they removed a portion of the cranium5. In the execution of this pur- s "In iis qax ufque ad cerebri menibranam divifa funt. A- ^' folarima fit, iifdem radulis utendum; fi coUifio aliqua una fit, terebris exfcindere colUfum oportet, fcalpris adhibitis." Oribasius. pofeFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 14.^ pofe alfo, they found, themfelves fubject to many inconveniences, arifing partly froiTi^the aukward and unmanageable form and make of their inftruments, and partly from the inartificial manner in which they applied them. Terebrae, and terebellae, of various forts, figures' and fizes, the cyclifcos, or fcalper ex- ciforius, and a variety of modioli were in- vented, and ufed for this purpofe, figures of which may be feen in Vidus Vidius's Com- ment on Hippocrates de vuln. capit. in Peter Paaw on the fame; in Andreas a Crusoe's officina; in Albucafis and others. If the piece of bone intended to be ire- moved was larger than could be compre- hended within the modiolus' then in ufe, and which was a very defedlive inflrument in many refpedls, the operation was performed by means of terebrse; which operation was ftill more coarfe, more fatiouins;, and more hazardous than that by the mere fcalpra. The piece intended to be taken away was furrounded with perforations made at fmall ances from each other, and then either the " Miniftri juxta aflideant, q^aorum unus caput Ixfi conti- " neat, alter, opportuna minifteria faciat. Aurium foramina L z " UnaJ 48 INJURIES OF THE HtAD the fcalper excilbrius or the icalprum lenti- c^iilaium. was introduced, and, by means ot repeated " lana coadlj ohturanda fuftt, ne ionitu in excifione tcircatur. His fa(Sis, infigendus calvari^ eft mucro acutus tcrebrx ; ** qua laefum os colorem mutavit, juxta integrum; deinde lenie " habena tercbram convertere debemus, donee inciib oifi raucro " inhrtat; actum citatius circumagcre oportet habena tere- bram convcrtente, donee mucro in fpatium inter duplex os ** delccndat; ubi autem for;uncn altius adaftum lit ultra craf- " £tUdmem Ipatii inter duplicem tellam oflis quod perloratur, " turn terebra multo circumfpe<5lius convertenda eft, ne re- *' pente detcendens cerebri membranam violet. Cum jam *' terebra adafta fuerit, ut vel conje6tura deprehendatur totam ** oflis cralutudinem ellc perforatam, vel porparum iblidvc Icdis " infra reliduni, tunc is qui operatur, altitudinem deguftet " demiffa tenuLs acus obtuia parte; ac ii quid continux ledis *' etiam reliquum lit, deprimendus altius tercbrx mucro eft, " eaque lente circumadla, folidum os perforandum. Eadem " quoque facienda funt in aliis foraminibus, donee rima in *' ambitu perforata fit. Septa vero media inter foramina fatis " habent fpatii, fere quantum fpecilli angufti avcrfa pars ell. ** Fadlis foraminibus, tuni ad excifionem, qua; dicitur, ve- ** niendum eft, ut excifis turn foraraiiiibus tum mediis, la'Ca ofia removeantur." Oribasius. " Modus autem perforationis eft, ut figas unum trypanorura " (terebarum) fuper os in circuitu, & revolvas ipfum intra " manus luas, donee Icias quod os terebratum eft; deinde liat " permutaiio ad aliujn locum: & fic permutatio fiat ufque ad *• ultimum necelTitatis. Deicde cum alio" inftrumento, quod ** dicitur fpatumen, ab uno foramine ufque ad aliud os incida- " tur," ic. Bkvkvs Chir, Ma^. " Pone trypanum fupra os circa fciffuram, ubi vis foramen " ficere, £c revolve ipfum intra raanus tuas donee penctrct; " deind«lL.J£t///'//.i/f//f////f/M-' -N 'L('i/r//,i,v.i. ljJ£v////f/n////'/Ar.r. ■ 4.j!if///('-////,r/i/kr. h.,iir//r,-/ uti'fuh^FROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. repeated ftrokes with a heavy mallet, was driven through all the interfpaces between each perforation. By thefe means the por- tion of bone fo furrounded was removed, and the dura mater was laid bare. The tediouf- nefs which mufl attend the making fo many perforations, the diflurbance given to the pa- tient's head, as well by the terebra, as by the mallet and chizel, the hazards of wounding: the membranes-of the brain, and the coarfe- iiefs and unhandinefs of the whole procefs, are too obvious to need a comments Of " deinde muta Ipfum ad alium locum, & fic fac tot foramina, quot fufficiant; deinde pone fpatumen in uno foraminum, & levancjo manum, fuperius incidatur terminus, qui eft inter " foramen & foramen, & fac fic donee feparatur os totum." Brun. C/yir. Parv. " Quo4 yerp per cyclifcos opus adminlllratur, ne id qui- dem omnino vitio caret, quum quatiat immodice caput, quod ^' potius quietem poftulat." Qalen. " At quas per terebellam ratio quidem fungitur, parum tuta " eft, propterea quod dum audacius eam-tra^lant, duram me- " ningem non raro violant." Galen. " Sa;pe fcalpros pulfantes adeo ut totupi cerebrum permo- *' veatur." Galen. Acuta terebra quamplurimas anguftas perforationes, craniz " fradlur^s ambientes, radioli craflitudine equidiftantes for- " mare folent; quod vero inter foramina refidet, aut redtis, 'f aut curvis fcalpris malleolo plumbeo adadls refcindere ex- 1-3 " peditn150 INJURIES OF THE HEAD Of this moft of them were fenfible; they' felt the inconveniences, and dreaded the dan- ger fo much, as to run iilto great abfurdities, merely to avoid them. They found that they not only wounded the dura mater, but fome- times the brain itfelf; and therefore had re- courfe to fuch precautions, as they thought moft likely to prevent thefe evils. By fome we are advifed, not to make the perforation quite through the bone, but to endeavour to leave a thin lamina of it entire. By others, to leave the piece, which the modiolus or terebra had furrounded, adhering to the dura mater, to be call off by its fuppuration, left " pedit. Lenticulato fcalpro, adafto malleolo, id fieri poteft; " horridus tamen quidem modus eft, ac in opere tardus." " Scalpra hsc omnia citra malleoli operam nuUius momenti *f funt; moventur necelTario malleolo adafto, prc-efsrUm in " rimis, qus ad, diploidem ufque pertingunt; excavant totun;i " OS, forti adhibita percujjione, non tuto fed iucommode." Andreas a Cruce. " Malleus ad percutiendum lenticulatum debet cfTe dc plumbq, <* ,ut in parva quantitate magis ponderet." Guido. «' Cavere pportet, ut in terebellffi admotione, ne fallens, verum qua parte craffiffimum os effe vifum fuerit, in earn " femper terebellam admotam adigito." Hippocrat. " Sspe accidit, ut terebrae repente adada:, ob naturalem perforatorum offium debilitatem, vel tenuitatem, membra- ^' nam fauciarint." Oribasivs. theFROM EXTERNAL, VIOLENCE. 15I the hafty detachment of it fliould be mif- chievous ^. The cautions laid down by Hippocrates and others, concerning the part of the bone whereon to fix the inftrument, and the great attention which they admonifh the operator to pay to its execution, all proceed from the fame fear. For the fame reafon, or from the fame well-grounded apprehenfion, it will be found that many of the beft praftitioners en- deavoured to furnifli their perforating inftru- ments with fuch guards or defences as fhould prevent them from going too deep K In ^ " Quod fi ftatim initio vulneris inflifti, curationi adhi-. bearis, os ad membranam ufque fimul & femel exfcindere " non oportet, &c. PrKterquam quod aliud fubeft periculum, *' fi ftatim ad membranam ufque auferas, ne inter operandum " membranam _la:das. Sed inter fecandum id obiervato, ut ** poftquam eo res perdufta, ut parum abfit quin univerfum os " pertufum fit, jamque os vacillare incipit, ab ulteriore fec- " tione abftineas, oflique, ut'fponte porro fecedat, permittas. " Namque cfli, quod fedum eft, & fine exfeftione reliftum, *' nihil detrimenti accidere poteft." " Cum itaque terebrs occurrit ufus, fi flatem curationi ad- " hibearis, cavefis ne ad membrann.m ufque 'penetrat, verum portio offis tenuis relinquenda." Hippocrat. ' " Terebellis autem ipfis, ut mergi non pofl"unt fupra cuf- pidem, nonnulli fuperciiium extans efficiunt." Galen. At (juia dum terebrum hoc circumagitur, periculum im- L 4 *• niinetiS2 INJURIES OF THE HEAD In Albucafis, in Andreas a Cruce, and many others, are figures and defcriptions of *' minet ne membrans laedantur, ideo nonnulli quo minus " aberrarent, & hoc periculi genus evitarent, terebras exco- " gitarunt qus mergi non poffunt, & ob id a Grsecis abaptifla *' dicuntur." An d re as a Cruce. " Si autem os forte durum eft, tunc oportet ut perfores in *' eircuitu ejus antequam adminiftres inciforia cum terebris^, quas nominantur terebrse non profundantes ; & non nominan- " turita, niii quoniam ipfe non pertranfeant terminum oflis, ad illud quod eft poft ipfum, propterea quod terebro eft ex- " tremitas rotunda fuper ilkd, quod eft fub capite ejus acute, " fimilis margini, & circulus parvulus prohibet fubmergi & *' pertranfire fpiffitudinem oflis. Et convenit tibi, ut accipias *' ex iftis terebris numerum multum, quorum unum quodque " conveniat quantitati fpiffitudinis oflis, donee prsefens fit tibi *' omni cranio terebrum," &c. AleuCasis. " Modiolus fuit veteribus duplex, eftque etiamnum Hodie vulgaris, turn & qui duplicem habet orbem, alterum fupra *' alterum extantem. Hie abaptiftos Grsscis; facit namquq " orbis five limbus extans ne profundius mergi queat. Hunc " itaque defcribit Galenus 6. meth. cap. 6. Quidem autem " quo minus aberrarent, tales terebellas excogitarunt quae *' mergi nequeant, quas inde abaptifta vocant. Circumcurrit " enim parum, fupra terebeilffi fupercilium circulus alius par- " vus. Sane expedit complures id genus ad manum habere, *' ob quamcunque cranii craflitudinem; nam crafliori longior •* convenit terebra, tenuiori brevior," &c. Pet. Paaw in Hippocrat. *' Si autem validum fuerit os, prius illud terebellis abaptiftia " vacatis perforatur. Ejufmodi vero funt quas paulo fupra " acumen cufpidis eminentias habent, impedientes ne ad cere- " bri ufque membranam demergi poffint." ^ Paul. j^^GiNET. 2 modioli.FROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 153 jinodioli, duabus, tribus, vel quatuor alis mu- niti, of thofe, as well as of t-erebellas, called abaptiftae, mefpilatae, torculatae, Sec. the num- ber and variety of thefe is very large, al- though they are all formed upon the fame principle, and all calculated for theYame pur- pofe, yiz, to perforate the fcuU without wounding the membrane underneath. But whoever vyill confider the very different thick- nefs of different fculls, and of different parte- of the fame fcuU, and at the fame time re- fiedt on the extreme aukwardnefs of all thefe inflruments, will immediately fee how very little dependence is to be laid on fuch de- fences, and how mifchievous the ufe of them muff very frequently have proved. In fhort, ^n attentive confideratioa of what our remote anceftors have dehvered down to us on this fubjed may fatisfy us, that their obfervations on the appearances and fymptoms of the ills attending this kjnd of mifchief, that is, frac- tures of the cranium J were in general ex- tremely juft and true, perhaps naore fo than thofe of many moderns; that their curative intention, or method of aiming at the relief or cure of fuch ills, was rational and juff; but that the inftrumental part of their art was154 INJURIES OF THE HEAD was lb deficient, fo aukward, and fo un- handy, that they were thereby not only in general prevented from accomphfhing the good they intended, but were not infrequently driven into almoft unavoidable mifchief. Redu£lion of the number of inftruments to be ufed in an operation, and sin extreme fimplicity and plainnefs in thofe which may be required, are a part of the merit of mo-^ dern furgery. The majority of the inftruments, with which our anceftors perforated the cranium, were contrived to make way for the admif- iion of other inftruments ; fuch as the fcalper exciforius, the cyciifcos, the fcalprum lenti- culatum, &c. with which they removed a portion of bone. Even the modioli, which were ufed by them, were fo fmall in the dia- meter of the faw, as to take away a very fmall piece at each application ; which cir- cumftance neceffarily leffened the benefit which might be expeded from the ufe of it, and rendered its repetition more frequently neceflary than it needed to have been, if it ,had been made larger. InileadiFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 155 Inftead therefore of that ftrange variety and multipUcity of inftruments, which I have akeady mentioned to have been ufed by them, we now require only a trephine of fuch a fize as to remove a fufficient quantity of bone at once, and an elevator ; or perhaps, now and then, a pair of forceps. Tliefe are all we ever can want; and thefe may be fo made, as to be manageable by the hand of any man of common judgment, with great eafe to himfelf, with very little fatigue and no hazard to the patient. With thefe we can , make as large or as fmall an opening in the fcull as we pleafe ; either for the relief of the dura mater, for the difcharge o,f blood or mat- ter, or for the elevation of depreffed or ex- traction of ioofe pieces of bone, and that without difturbing the patient greatly, or in- curring any riik of wounding the brain or its membranes"". I have It has been cuftomary to make the handle of the trephine cf iron, and to form the extremity of fuch handle in fuch man- ner, as to make it ferve the purpofe of an elevator; thus com- bining, as it were, two inftruments in one. This, I think, is a great fault; fuch iron handle adds confidferably to the weight of the inftrument, and that in a wrong part of it; and thereby fenders it lefs manageable. The handle of this inftrument ftiouldl§6 INJURIES OF THE HEAD I have already faid, that what are called the principal and diagiioflic figns of a frac- tured fcull are by no means to be depended on, as indicating fuch mifchief to exift ; it can therefore be hardly neceflary to obferve, that what are called the uncertain figns re- quire our regard flill lefs. Thefe have been mentioned by many writers, who have co- pied each other; fuch are, the holding a filk or horfe-hair tight between the grinding teeth and the hand, and the making it vibrate by flriking on it; the biting an hard body, and attending to the pain produced by fuch ac^ tion ; with fcveral other of like fort; which, not tp mention that they imply the pj^tient tq be fenfible and intelligent, are fp truly equi- vocal 2L$ to deferve no notice Ihould be made of light wood, not too long, and of jfn oftangu- Jar figure. Whoever will try tlie fame inftruments, thus dif- ferently made, will, I think, be immediately fenfible of the preference due to the lighter handle. It is almoft impoffible for the handle of an inftrument, whofe point or extremity is to be worked with, to be too light. It is no uncommon thing tq fee couching needles, and inltruments of like kind, laden with heavy bone handles, the inconvenience of which is tpo obvious; to mention. " Item percutiatur caput cum levi bacculo ficco, de falice " aut de pino, & pone aurem tuam apud caput; & fi fanum " eft, tunc audies fonum fanum ; li fradum aut fcifium, audies " fonum mutum.'' Lanfranc. All« FROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. i All confideratioiis alfo, which are drawn from the manner in which the violence was given or received, from the weight or kind of weapon or body inflicling it, from the force of the blow, the height of the fall, &c* are all equally fallacious; for every body knows, that very terrible fymptoms and con-- lequences are fometimes produced by accidents feemingly flight; and, on the contrary, that people efcape unhurt, from what might rea- fonably have been expe£led to have proved prejudicial to them. In fhort, nothing but the fight and touch are to be at all depended upon. If the integuments are not wounded, or if the wound made in them be fo fmall as not to admit a proper examination of the bone, and the circumftances of the cafe are fuch as render fuch inquiry neceffary, a portion of the fcalp fhould be removed. The manner of doing this has formerly been the occafion of much difference of opinion ; but there can be no doubt about the greater propriety of re- moving a piece of the fcalp for this purpofe, by an incifion in a circular form, it being that form which muft afford the cleareft view. If there be no wound, the point ftricken fliould beINJURIES OF THE HEAD be made the centre of the incifion ; if there be a wound, fuch wound fhould be made the centre of' the piece to be removed; and fuch piece fhould always be of fize fuffi- cient to render the appHcation of the tre- phine ealj°* If the fcalp be wounded, and the wound be large enough to render the fradure vifible, the courfe of that mufl be the , operator's di- redion in making his incifion ; and, if the Hcin be much torn and bruifed, or fpoiled, it will generally be found advifable to take away all that is fpoiled at once; as the removal of it will add very little to the patient's pain, or the length of the cure, and the leaving it on in this ftate may be attended with great fu- ture inconvenience. Scalping (as it is called) Ihould always be executed with a knife, and that knife fliould be fo held as to cut through the Ikin and pe- ° It may perhaps be remarked, that through the whole of this treatife, whenever I have occafion to fpeak of the opera- tion of perforating the fcull, T mention the trephine only, and take no notice of the trepan, the inftrument ufed by mod of our immediate fathers, and Hill in ufe through almoll all France; my reafon is, that the latter is an unmanageable one, and liable to mofl of the hazard and inconvenience attending the terebra; and terebellK. ' , ricraniumFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. I ricraniiim in a perpendicular manner, down to the bone at once, that the fize of the bare bone may be fully equal to that of the wound in the fcalp. It is hardly neceflary to infert a caution againft preffing hard with the fcalping knife, in the cafe of large fractures, attended either with great feparation of the broken edges, or with loofe pieces, the danger is fo obvious. And it is alfo as obvious, that there can be but one method of avoiding fuch hazard, viz. by removing the fcalp from, or rather mak- ing the inciiion in a part beyond the fracture, and where the bone is £rm and ftable. By thefe means, not only the rilk of hurting the membranes and brain will be avoided, but the whole mifchief will be more fairly and clearly brought into view; a thing, which fooner or later muft be done, and is always beft done at firft. No part of the fcalp fliould be wantonly or unneceflarily cut away: but it fhould always be remembered, that this operation is, and lliould be performed, with intention to bring, if poffible, the whole frac- ture into fight; and that whatever falls fliort of fulfilling fuch intention (if prailicable) is wrong, not only, as it does not immediately anfweri66 INJURIES OF THE HEAD anfwer the purpofe for which it is intended; but it generally puts the patient under a ne- cellity of undergoing the fame pain and trou- ble a fecond time. When the cranium is laid bare, it may not be improper to remark, that writers in gene--, ral have cautioned us to beware of miftaking either a future, or the imprefTion of a veffel on the furface of the bone, for a frafture: I fay, that they have in general cautioned us not to miftake one of thefe for the other, but have not informed us of the mark by which we may be enabled to make the neceffary diftinc- tion, although fuch mark is -almoft conftant and invariable. From the track of a fradiire, or hflure, the pericranium is always found loofe and detached ; whereas to the arterial fuicus, and to the uninjured future, it is al- ways adherent; befides which, the edges of a fradure will always be found rough to ' the probe or finger^|and the fuicus always fmooth; not to add,'that the difpofition of the futures is pretty certain, and their appear- ance in general not extremely like to that of a frafture. . When the fcalp is much bruifed, or Wounded, fuch wound or bruife points out ^ .theFROM i:XTERNAL VIOLENCE. l6l the place from whence the piece fl-iould be removed^ in order to examine the bone ; and, even although ho fra<flure fhould be found, is an authority and vindication of fuch oper- ation*, efpecially if the general fymptoms v/ere at all urgent, fuch fymptoms implying mifchief fomewhere, and fuch external mark rendering it clear^ where the external violence caufing fuch mifchief was infliaed. But all the antient, and many of the modern writers, fpeak of a particular kind of fradlure, in which the fcalp covering it is perfedly fair and un- injtfrfed ; and this they call a contra-hflure. By the general account it is pretty clear, that the majority of thofe who have fpoken of this kind of fracture have fuppofed that the breach made in the bone was moll: frequently in the part of the cranium diametrically oppofite to that which received the blow ; this the term contra-fiflure implies, and this they mofi: cer- tanily do in general m^an fhould be under- frood by it, as appears by their direding us to examine and to remove the oppofite part of the fcalp, if no mifchief be found under the part ftncken, and the patient labours under what are called the fymptoms of a fradured fcull. Vol. I. M If162 INJURIES OF THE URAtT If the fymptoms- of a fradtured cranium- vyere certain, and to be depended upon, thi& accidental circumftance^ of a breach in, the bone having been now.and ;thei> found in a diftant, or even in the oppofite part, might be an inducement to look for fuch mifchief there, when it is not found under the part ftricken. A fradure, we might then fay, there is fomewhere ; and it having in fome inftances been found in the oppofite part of the head, it might be right to look for it there. But as what generally pafs for, and are called the fymptoms of a fra^ured fcull, are by no means to be depended upon, as- in- dicating fueh complaint to exift any where, as they are producible by concuffion, by ex- travafation, by contulion, &c. and are fre- quently found where the fcull is entire and unhurt, they, cannot be deemed a fufficient authority for removing the. fcalp where no apparent mark of violence is left. The fmalleft degree of wound or bruife will, in cafes where the lymptoms are urgent, vindicate the re- moval of fcalp from luch part; but where there is no. local indication where to operate, I camiotFROM EXTERNAL VlOLtNCE. M 3 or i cannot "fee any vindicable reafon for operat- inor at all P. The chirurgical intention in perforating the fcull, in the cafe of fimpie luideprefled fra6lures, is, as I have ah'Tsady obferved, either to give immediate difcharge to a fluid fup- pofed to be extravafated between the cranium ^nd membranes of the brain; or to obviate and prevent fuch illsj, as may moft probahly be expe6ted to arife from the contufion cauf- iiig the fradlure ; or to let out matter already formed in confequence of the inflammation following fuch contufion. In each of thefe it is moft probable*, that the mifchief, be it which it may, either is P Morgagni, In his book De Caujts tff Sedilus, has very juftly cfbferved, That if by contra filTure was meant a breach in ** that part of the cfanium which is diametrically oppoiite to ** the part wounded or bruifed, (as fome have afiirmed) there could be none of that difficulty which they all allow of find- irig, 'or that frequent difappointment in not finding it at all, fmce an inquiry into fuch oppofite part hiuft always have led " to the difcovery. So that inflead of the ttxm-.oppojite, that " of fl«o/^^r part of the cranium ought to have been ufed." And then the whole of this, which has puz7.Ied fo many, will amount to no more than what every praftitioner muft know, which is, that we frequently find, in cafes of great violence, that the fcull has been broken in a place very dillant from ttiat which received the blow, and which we are not led to tlie knowledge of by any apparent external mark.r54 INJURIES OF THE BEAU or will be feated principally under the track of the frafture ; qnd therefore, whenever the trephine is applied for either or any of thefe purpofes, it ought always to be fet on in fuch manner as that the fradure fhould, if pofiible, traverfe the circle defcribed by the faw, or at leaft, fo that the inftrument might always comprehend the fra6lure within it. I am aware that the direftion given by moft of the old writers on this fubje£l is very different from what I have mentioned; but the inftruments with which they operated were fo different from ours, and the advan- tages arifing from the comprehenfion of the fracture within the trephine are fo great, and fo manifeft, that I muft take the liberty of inculcating a conftant attention to it, as to a. circurnflance from which great advanta2:es are derivable. The faw or crown of the trephine fhould never be too fmall, elpecially if the patient be full grown; a circumftance which I thought it right to mention, becaufe the inftrument-makers are very apt to make them foi. The ^ The beft pra£lItioners have, at times, found tliemfelves- neceflitatcd to apply the inftrument repeatedly m the fame caftf> inFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 165 The number of perforations which it may be neceflary to make, can only be determined by the nature of each individual cafe. If the operation be performed on account of fuch fymptoms as feem to indicate a bloody • extravafation, and (b free a difcharge is pro- duced by one opening, as alleviates or removes the fymptoms, that one may be all that may be neceflary; but if the firft perforation only difcovers the difeale, and is not followed by fuch difcharge as relieves, or removes the fymptoms, the operation ought to be repeated again and again. If there be no fymptoms of extravafation, and the inftrument has been applied in a preventative fenfe merely, the length of the fradure muft determine the number; one or two only may be made at firH:, and it may be right to wait for farther diredlion from future in order to remove a confidcrable cuantity of bone ; and among the writers on this fubjea, are frequent relations of fuch fafts. The praftice is undoubtedly juft and right j but I cannot help thinking, from what I have feen of the perforating inftrumenta . of many of our predecefibrs, that a part of their trouble, and pf the fatigue of their patients in fuch cafes, might have been much leflened, had the circle of their faw been larger. The advantage of a large circle is great; the inconvenience imagi- .nary. M 3 clrcumftances.166 INJURIES OF THE HEAD circumftances. The circumftances whic^ ftiay render a repetition of the operation ne- ceflary are, acceffion or increafe of fever ; large difcharge of matter, or lodgment of the fame fluid; inflammatory tenfion of that part of the dura mater which has already been denuded, &c. Direftions' to be given by a writer can, on this fubjeft, be only and.truly general; all the. reft muft be left to the judg- ment of the furgeon, which judgment muft be formed from the peculiar nature of each individual cafe. , When the operation has not been per- formed as a preventative, but to give dif- charge to that matter which a fymptomatic fever indicates to have been formed, the quantity of fuch fluid, the extent of the fecef* fton of the dura mater, and the ftate of that membrane, muft determine the condudl of the operator. The only chance of relief is, from laying bare a large portion of it, that the difcharge may be as free, and the confine- ment as little as poffible: nothing but this can do good; the fpace of time in which it may prove beneficial is very (liort, that once elapfed is abfolutely irrecoverable; and the neceflfary operation for obtaining fuch end mayVTf.OM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 167 ■tnay full as well be totally neglefled, as done hy halves, or too late. The extent of the injured and feparated dura mater, a-nd confequently of the vacuity for the formation and lodgment of matter, is a thing of fo inai(?h eonfequence, that it is to be vviflied we were able to difcover it with more precilion an-d clearnefs than we feem to be able to do. It is the crreateft cnxumftance- ■of hazard to the patient, and of dire£lion to the furgeon. It is that which, if nndifcovered or negledled, muft deftroy tlie former, and •that, which when difcoverable, and attended to by the latter is not only his information, ■but his vindication. The concealment of the dura mater within die cranium is .one s;'reat caufe of this g-reat obfcuri-ty. This neceflarily prevents us from knowing t"he true ftate of the faid membrane, as much and as certainly as it is to be wifhed we could; but fliill I cannot help thinking, that there are fome circumftances and appear- ances", as well before perforation 'as after, which, if carefully and duly attended to, may throw fome light on tliis obfcure part of fur- gery. For example ; if, upon' dividing the dcalp, the pericranium is found' to be 'altered, M 4 andlOO INJURIES OF THE HEAD and perfeaiy feparated from the fcull to which it ought naturally to adhere; or if, fome few days after, fcalping, (as it is called) the edges of fuch wound fpontaneouCy quit their adh»- fion to the bone all round, to fome diftance, and inftead of being firm, florid, and healthy, become loofe, tawny, and flabby ; or if the fcull, upon being denuded, is plainly of a - colour different from that of a healthy found bone, with a healthy found membrane under it; or if fuch bone, after having been either accidentally or defignedly laid bare, undergoes - fuch morbid change of afpeft, and the patteht is at the fame time reftlefs and feveriih, with tenfive pain in the head, and irregularly re- turning fits of heat and chiUinefs; I think, that we may moR reafonably prefume, that the dura mater in fuch patient is inflamed ; and that the feat of fuch inflammation is under fuch bare and altered part of the fcull, This prefumption, as I have jufl: obferved, may take place before perforation; but, if added to thefe circumftances, which appear before the operation, we find upon perforating that the membrane is inflamed, detached, altered from its natural texture and brightnefs, or fmeared over with matter, the cafe is then clear,' FROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 169 clear, as to its qature; and it is as clear, that nothing but the removal of a confiderable por- tion of the fcuU can either give room for the inflammatory tenfion of the membrane, or make way for the difcharge of rnatter gene- rated on its furface ; the two circumftances on which the well-being of the patient de- pends, the two intentions which muft be ful- filled, and which nothing but free perforation, can enable us to fulfil. Whatever degree of hazard may be fuppofed to be incurred, by having expofed the dura mater to the air, cannot be increafed by the mere cornparative fize of the opening; and if we may be al- lowed to expofe our patients to any rilk at all, it can only be upon a fuppofition, that a greater degree of good may be deducible from it. It fometimes happens, that one of the bones of the fcuU is cracked, and the dura mater underneath fuch crack is fo injured as to be- come inflamed, and in procefs of time to fup- purate; but there being no early or immediate lymptom of fuch mifchief, and the fcalp being neither wounded nor bruifed in fuch manner or degree as to authorife the removal pf the fcalp, the true nature of the cafe is not known,^'J^ INJURIES OF THE HEAD fciiown, nor the impending rni{ch\d attended to, until the fymptoms of inflammation begin to appear. In this fituation, after an uncer- tain number of days, (fometimes more, fome- >,. times lefs) the patient finds himfelf out of order, is reftlefs, does not get natural or quiet fleep, is flufhed and chilly by turns, feels pains of the dull tenfive kind all over his head, but particularly in the. part where the blow ■Was infli(5led. Soon after he has got into this toe, the part fo pained becomes in fome" de- gree tumid, the febrile fymptoms advancing notwithftanding ^yery internal aliiftance. If in thefe, circumilances the tumid part of-the kalp be divided, and the cranium be found bare, (the pericranium having fpontaneoufly quitted its adhefion) whether it be broken or not, mifchief is certainly forming underneath it, and the one remedy is perforation. It alfo fometimes happens that a fine ca-. pillary fifiure runs or is continued under an undivided part of the fcalp, from the extrcr ' " Offimn rima occulta interdum non ante feptimum diem, " interdum non ante decimum quartum, interdum ferlus fe *' oftendit: turn caro ab offe recedit; tumque os lividum ap- paretj dolores item ichorum diffluentium excitantur; atque " iiKC difliculter remediis cedunt." Hippocrat. mityTROM EXTERKAl. "VIOLENCE. IJJ rnity of a fra6lure to a diftance greater or lefsi or, in other words, the fra£lure in its track, from being open and apparent, becomes ca- pillary, and is either not feen or not attended to. If the dura mater, under fiich fiffure, does not become inflamed, it may poffibly never give any trouble ; but if it does become inflamed, and fuppurate, the fcalp covering fuch fiflure will, at the end of fome days, fwell, and become tender to the touch ; the pericranium will, by feparating from the bone, form a fmus along the track of the fif- Hire, a difcharge of gleet will be made from it upon preffure, and the divifion of it will difplay the breach in the bone. Notwithftanding the fracture from which this fiflure is continued be large and open, and the trephine may alfo have been more than orice lufed to fuch frafture, yet, when the appearances are fuch as I have related, if the patient be not entirely free from all general fymptoms of inflammatory mifchief, it may be depended upon, that the membrane under the fiflure is difeafed ; and if a convenient opening be not made upon the part aggrieved, bad confequences will follow, notwithfl:anding all that may have been done to the more vi- fiblcINJURIES OF THE HEAD fible and open part of the fracture. A veiy ftvon^ and convincing proof of the nature of a local inflammation of the dura mater, as well as of the mpft prpper method of treating fuch diforder. In cafes of great violence offered to the head, whether the fcull he broken or not, it fometimes happens, more particularly in young fubjedts, that we find a future cpnfi- derably disjoined; in which eircumftance I do not remerpber ever to have feen one fingle inftance of a recovery ^ I cannot take leave of this fubjea without reminding the young praditioner, that al- though it be impoffible for any one, in the cafe of a highly inflamed or fuppurating dura mater, to get well without perforation of the fcull, yet that operation muft be confidered only as one abfolutely neceflTary part of the procefs toward obtaining a cure ; and that phlebotomy, gentle evacuations per anum, proper febrifuge remedies, and a ftrid low » " Repentina futurarum disjundVio, f; caufam attendas, fine " aligua cerebri concuffione efle non poteft : fi efFeftum, non " fine violenta cralTe meningis, illuc piagis adhaerentis diftrac- tione, ac annedlentium fibrillarum ac yafculorum lacera- *' tione," &c. Moi^gagni De Caufif Sed. dietFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 173 diet and regimen, will be full as neceflary after fuch operation as before it. The re- moval of a piece of bone takes off feme pref- fure from the tenfe and inflamed membrane, frees it in fome degree from its confinement, and gives difcharge to matter and gleet; but it does no more; and every means which can lerve to appeafe the febrile heat, to leffen the velocity of the circulating fluids, to render the Ikin perfpirable, and the patient cool and eafy, are full as neceflary after as before fuch operation. CASE XVII. SIMPLE FRACTURE. A PRINCIPAL overfeer of one of the ereat roads near to this town was thrown down with great violence, while he was giving di- reaions to the labourers. He fell with his forehead againft a fharp ftone, and lay fenfe- lefs for a few minutes, but foon recovered himfelf, and walked home. The ftone had made a confiderable wound, the lips of which were fo torn and bruifed, that the furgeon who firft faw him cut them away, and by that means deteded a frafture, or rather a fiflure, of about an inch and half or two inches inINJURIES OF TrfE HEAD?- in length, on the upper or middle part of ih'i OS frontale. The man had neither ficknefs^ giddinefs, vomitingj fever, nor any other bad fymptom for feveral days; on which account nothing was done to the fradure, which was cirefied with dry lint only. He was twice let blood, and kept to a low cool regimen. At the end of feven days, he found himfelf fa well, that he was defu'ous of going out; but that not being permitted, he ftayed at home, and took great care of himfelf. On the ele- venth day he found himfelf out of order, faid that his head ached, that his ftomach was not right, and ate no dinner. The following nio;ht he o-ot but little reft. On the thirteenth day, having paffed very unquietly the pre- ceding night, he did not rife ; and when his furgeon came to drefs him, finding him fe- verifh, he let him blood, and gave him a le- nient cathartic. In the fpace of two daj^s more all his fymptoms were exafperated; his head-ach was great and conftant, his fevei' high, he got no fleep at all, the edges of the wounded fcalp became foul, loofe, and lpong}'j ^nd his forehead and vifao-e were attacked with an inflammatory fwelling of the ery{ipelai:ou3 kind. On the fix'teenth day he had a feverc rigor.TROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. r^'j' rigor, and was fomewhat delirious, and his eyes became fo tumefied that he could not open them- In this ftate I found him. Being informed of what I have here related, and having exa- mined the bare cranium, I could not hefitate to fay, that I apprehended his complaint pro- ceeded from the formation and confinement of matter within the fcuU; and that the little chance the man had muft be from immediate perforation in the track of the fiffure. The operation was performed, and the dura mater found -covered-with matter. He was dreffed lightly, and'loft twelve ounces of blood. The next day I was informed that he was very rational, but his fever unremitting, and that he got no fleep. On the nineteenth day I faw him again, along with the late Mr. Be- thune; the difcharge from within the fculi was large, and the bare bone and wounded fcalp looked very ill; all his other fymptoms much the fame. On the twenty-firfl: I was fent for again^ He was now delirious in a high degree, para- lytic in one arm and leg, and frequently con- vulfcd in the other, the difcharo-e was lars:e and remarkably offenlive, his tongue black, 7 • theI7<^ INJURIES OF THE HEAC the fkin of his body burning hot and dry, that of his extremities cold and moill:; and I luppofe I need not tell the reader what hap- pened that night. CASE XVIII. A YOUNG man playing at cudgels in Moor- fields received a ftroke on his forehead ; it did not feem either to himfelf or the fpedators to have been a fevere one, but as it produced blood, it was deeme^i by the laws of the game a_ broken head, and he was obliged, to yield to his antagonift. As It gave him no trouble,' he took no notice of it ; was for feveral nights after- wards engaged in the fame diverfion, and fol- lowed his daily labour. On the ninth day from that on which he received the blow, he thought that his forehead was fomewhat fwollen, and felt tender to the touch ; on the eleventh it was more tumefied and more painful, and on the twelfth he found himfelf fo much out of order, that he applied to be received into St. Bartholomew's hofpital. An incifion was made into the tumor; a thin brown ichor was difcharged, and a bare 5 bone «FROM EXTERNAL VIOJLENciE". I.77 bone being difcovered, a circular piece of the fcalp was removed, which difcovered a frac- ture. The trephine was appHed twice along the track of the fra£lure, by which means it was almofl totally removed. The dura mater was found difcolouredi and beginning to have matter on its furface. The patient was let blood, and ordered tc5 take the fal abhnth. mixture with a few grains of rhubarb in it eVery fix hours, ^|The fucceeding night was paffed ill; the patient complained much of pain, and got little or no fleep. On the four- teenth his fever, was high, hislkinW; arid his pulfe full and hard; foui'teen ounces more of blood were taken from one of the jugulars ; and as he ftill continued coffive, a lenitive purge was given a.few hours afterwards. On the feventeenth every thing bore a bad afpeft^ both as to his wound an^ his general ftate : he got no reft, his fever was high, and the wound very ill-conditioned. His head'was %ain carefully exainined, in "order if pofTible to difcover fome other injured part. No fuch injury was found; and it: being impoffible / that he fhould remain in his prefent fiate^ evacuation feemed to be his only chance, and therefore fourteen ounces more of blood were Vol. L N drawnINJURIES OF TITE HEAtT drawn from one of the temporal artenes, hy VKich' he fainted, and after hy which he Teemed to he fomewhat eafier. For three days from this time be feerned to Be'xbnfiderably better; but on the twenty- firft he was again in as much pain as ever, and the fore again begun to put on a bad aipe^. / The benefit which he had once already received fi-om phlebotomy had been manifefl • and as" his pulfe was.well abie to bear it again, the temporal arteries were again opened, and he vl-as bled till his pulfe failed fo much and fb fudckiily that I was not a littk alarmed; By "proper care he was brought to himfelf, and I had no other trouble durinor his cure than what proceeded from his extreme weak-, nefs, which the bark foon removed. Although this man may very j.uftly be faid to have been faved by the frequent repetitioa of phlebotomy, yet as matter was beo-innino. to be formed on the furface of the dura mater,, and as fuch matter could have na outlet, whereby to efcape, it is very clear, that unlefs. the cranium had been perforated, he mulV have perifhed. C A!rR0M feXTfe'ftNAL Violence. ty-^ CASE XIX. The driver of a poft-chaife was throwA from his horfb neat to Ware in Hertford- ttiire, and ftruck his head againft what they tall a flapping ftone in a waih-way^ He was 'ftuhiled by the blow^ and carried into a pubiid houfe ; but in half an hour's time found him- felf fo well as to 'be able to carry the chaife t6 the place he was going to-, which was juft by." The riej?t day, finding himfeif perfedly well, he went to work again, and continued to do fo for fix days. On the feventh, he found himfeif fick, vomited twiccj and had t kind of fainting fit followed by a great paih ill his head^ and fome degree of fever. From the hardfhip and the irregular manner of thefe people's living, his complaints were fup- pofed to be owing to cold, and to intemper- 'Aiite; and he was treated accordingly: but on the ninth day, a tumor appearing on that part of his head which had received the blow, a furgeon examined it, and upon open^ ing the tumefied part, foUnd a fiffure running diagonally acrofs the whole parietal bone. The next day he was brought to St. Bartho- N 2 lomew'sj8o injuries of the head lomew's nofjjital. His fkin was hot, hii pulfe hard and quick, and he complained that his head felt as if it was fqueezed between two. trenchers. The whole fiflure being brought into view, the trephine was-applied three times along the track of it; from each |)erforation a quantity of matter was dif- pharged, and under each the dura mater was jnuch altered. AH poffible care was taken of him, but to no purpofe : every day pro- jduced an exafperation of his lymptoms. On the fourteenth he became paralytic on one fide, and on the fixteenth funk into a ftate of perfeO: infenfibility, and toward evening died. , The whole internal furface of the left parietal and temporal bones was detached from the dura mater, and covered a large quantity of matter. C A S E XX. .A bricklayer's labourer was knocked down by . the fall of a large heavy pantile^ which made a large wound in the fcalp, and broke the fcuU. The fra£l:ure began in the left parietal bone, and traverfing the coro- nal' future, ran about an inch in the os frontaLe-. HeFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. iSl He was foon brought to the hofpital, where the fcalp was immediately removed, fo as to make way for the trephine ; which inftru- ment was applied on each fide of the future, in fuch manner as to comprehend the fracture in each application of it. The dura mater was found to be unin- jured; there was neither extravafation, not any other mark of mifchief. The patient was freely and repeatedly let blood, kept to a proper regimen, and prefcribed for by the phyfician. In two months he was difcharged perfectly well, and had not during his cure one fingle bad fymptom. It may very reafonably be remarked, that this was one of thofe cafes which would have done well " without the operation, which I am much inclined to believe : but does not this cafe, as well as many others ' of like fort, prove alfo, that the laying bare the uninjured dura mater is not a matter of fuch hazard, as fome have fuppofed it to be ? CASE XXI. A GIRL about nine years old fell from the top of a pretty high hayriek at Iflington, and N 'J * pitched■ rS2 INJURIES OP THE- HEAD ^ pitched with her head on the ground, which was hard and dry. She wa& carried home bleeding freely from a wound pn one fide of the upper part of the head, and a furgeon in the neighbourhood examining her, found, that her fcull was broken ; upon which fhe was brought to the hofpital. The fradure was detefted ; it began in one parietal bone, and pafling the future ended in the other, makino- a courfe of about three inches in alh It wa? open, and blood difcharged through it. The trephine was apphed to it on each bone ; the dura mater was not hurt. She had neither ficknefs, ftupor, pain, nor fever, and got well without any trouble; not even my exfoliation from the bare cranium. The fame remarks as were applicable to the foregoing cafe are, perhaps, equally :{q to this, CASE xxir, ;, A farrier's fervant received a blow from the foot of a horfe which he was ihoeing. The blow knocked him down, and bereaved him of fenfe, He hved-n^ar Smithfield, and was brought tp the hofpital fenfelefs. I faw him ill lefs than half an hour, and , ' foun.d tJTROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. iSj N 4 A fra£ture found him to all appearance well, his fenfes perfedlly recovered, and no remains of the injury vifible, fave a fmall bruife on his fore- head. A difcutient cerate was applied to the bruife, he was let blood, a purge was or- dered for the next day, and he was advifed to keep very quiet. On the third day he was perfe<3:ly welj, had no general-complaint, and the bruife on his forehead was what is commonly called black and blue. He continued w^ll until the evening of the feventh day, in which he complained of beiii^ faint, chilly, and uneafy in his head, parti- cularly his forehead. The following night he was reftlefs, apd in the morning was {ick and giddy, and had no appetite.. J^Iis pulfe was very little rifen; however twelve ounces of .blood were taken from his arm, and he was ordered to take the H abfmth. mixture fextis horis, and keep in bed. The ninth and tenth days were pafled in much the fame manner ; but on the eleventh his fever role high, and the part of his forehead which had received the blow became fwoUen and tender. Qft the thii'teenth the tumefied part palpably -contained a fluid, and was therefore opened. .iM INJURIES OF THE. HE AD A fradure of about two inches in length was difcovered, running frpm juft above the fron- tal fin us upward. • The trephine wa^ applied ^ the moft depending part, an4 matter found "between the membrane and bone, The day after this Operation, finding his pulfe to be full and hard, I bled him fo freely that he fwooned, and was fome minutes before he recovered. That night he paffed much eafier 5 and although the difcharge of matter was. confiderable for fopie time, yet, by proper care and due management, both phyfical and chirurgical, he got welh . I will not affert if tb be-a general fad, but as far as my own experience and obfcrvation go, I thmk that I have feen more patients get well, whofe injuries have been in or under the frontal-bone, than any other bonfes of the cranium. If this fhould be found to be gene- rally true, may not the reafon be worth'' in- quiring into^? CASE ' That thi$ is true, has been prpved by many inftances. The caufe is in great meafure affigned, if we recollca thj^t the cere- brum may be hurt with lefs danger than the cerebeilunr; and that the greater the dilknce of a wound from the cerebellum, tliejefs danger there is of that part of the contents of the.cr^- nium he'mg injured. It has been frequently demonftratcd, thwJ |?ROM EXTERNAL yiOl^ENCE, l8<[ CASE XXIII, A LAD about feventeen, the fon of a plaf* terer, was at work with his father at the manfion-houfe, and fell fi'om a feaffold a coii- iiderable height. He lay fenfelefs for fome minutes, but in a little time was fo mueh recovered as to walk. On the left lide of. his head was a fmall bruife, which gave hinpi littb or no pain. He had no fymptoms which indi- cated that he had fuftained any- mifchief; aad after having ftaid at home a day or t wo at the perfuafioii of his mother, he returned to h& bufinefs. • On the ninth day from that of h^ fall, he was feized with a violent fhootiug pain in his head, was lick, and had a kihd*af convulfive fit. As it was not fuppofed that his fall had any ihare in that attack, no notice was takdn of it ; a few ounces of blood were drawn froni his arm, and the «ipothecary who had the care that great part qf the cerebrupi m*y be taken away without deftroying the animal, or even depriving it of its faculties^ •whereas the cepebelkm will fcarcely admit the fmalleft injury, without being followed by mortal fymptom,s. E.INJURIES OF THE HEAD of him gave him fome of thofe medicines that are called nervous. His head-ach, fever, and watching, conti- nued vi^ithout remiffion for feveral days, and the end of three, v^^eeks he died, paralytic m one fide, and co'^ivulfed on the other. A fmall fw^Uing having appeared on hi^ head three or four days before his death, his father dehred me to come and look at it, after that event had happened, The pericranium was feparated from the left parietal bene quite acrofs, by means of a fra6lure which traverfed the length of the whole bone. A quantity of matter was lodged between the inner furface of the faid bone and the outer one of the dura mater, and a fmaller colledioa of, matter was alfo found between that memhrane and -the pia mater. C A XXIV. A YOUNG man about twenty-two wa^ • brought into St. Bartholomew's hofpital, con- ^derably hurt by a fall from a high fcaffold. . The radius of his right arm was broken about its middle : the "tibia add fibula of hfs left leg were botli,hrok.eni, ,.a^id one or^two of his ribs. • .. ^' ByFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. By proper care, in about five weeks, h9 was fp well as to be permitted to get out of bed. The firft day of his rifing he com^ plained of being fick and giddy, which was imputed to weakiiefs and confinement, and therefiDre difregarded. For three or four days after this period he complained of conftant pain in his head, got no fleep, and was con- ftantly feverifh. As he had never made any complaint of his head, nor had apparently fuftained any injury on that part, Mr. Nourfe (whofe patient he was) could «ot fufpedl my, and therefore contented himfelf with the com- mon antiphlogiftie Regimen. At the end of the fixth week, he complained that his head was painful to the touch ; and the day after he had made this complaint, he had a fevere figor, which lafted half an hour. On the twenty-ninth day, a fwelling, palpably coa- tainin^ a fluid, appeared oct the fiide of his . head. Mr. Nourfe opened it, and found a fradure of the parietal bone three inches; long at ieaft, through which matter ifilied freely. The trephine was appHed, a lairge quantity of matter was difcharged, and the dura mater -was found floughy; under which doughy ^art was another coUe^lioiiof matter between the188 INJURIES OF THE HEAD the membranes, and under this latter abfcefs, the brain was confiderably difcoloured. He died on the fiftieth day from that of his fall. CASE XXV. ' A BOY, belonging to a horfe-dealer in Smithfield, was thrown from a horfe, with great violence, againft one of the fheep-pens. He had a large wound and a frafture, which began about the middle of the frontal bone, and paffing the coronal future, ended in the-, right parietal, A trephine was fet on the fra^Sture i'n the frontal bone, and a fmall quantity of grumous Hood difcharged from between the cranium and dura mater. All that day and night he continued fenfelefs • but the next day, by means of a fecond plentiful, bleeding, he re- covered his fenfes. > To render every thing (as I -hoped) fecure, a fmall trephine was applied On the other fide of the future, which feemed to comprehend all the breach made in the parietal bone. For nine days from this time every thing looked well,' and the boy was free from com- plaint ; but on the twelfth from the accident, heIfROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 1-89 he complained of being much out of order;* and the next day the fore looked ill, and a thin gleet was difcharged from the dura ma-, ter through the lint, which now ftuck faft to it, inftead of coming off eafily as ufual, and covered with good matter* For three days from this time, both ^he boy and fore remained in much the fame ftate. On the feventeefith, in dreffing him, I ob- ferved a fpongy kind of papilla on one pai't of the fore, which was very tender to the touch, and from which was difcharged, upon pref- fure, a thin fanious kind of fluid : by means of a probe palTed through this papilla, I dif- covered a finus with bare bone its whole length : the divifion of this detected a capil- lary filTure, of at leaft two inches in length. A trephine was fet on it, and the dura mater was found difcoloured, and with matter on its furface. By means of free evacuation at firft, and as free ufe of the bark afterwards, this patient got well. CASE XXVI. Two female inhabitants of St. Giles's got drunk together, and quarrelled ; one of them threwthrew a ftbol at the other, and knoeked hei^ down, the edge of the' ftool cut through the fcalp, and broke the left parietal bone; The fraaure ran from the middle of the bone far as the fagittal future. The girl wa^ ^reffed that night by fomebody in her neigh- bourhood, and was brought the next morn^ ing to the hofpitah As fhe had no bad fymp- torn of any kind, the operation was deferred^ and ihe went on very well for a week 5 at the end of which time jfhe began to complain in fuch manner, and her fore bot'e fuch an afpea, that I thought there muft be mifchief tindei- the cranium. A trephine was fet on fhe frafture; the dura mater was found floughy and purulent. She was bled again freely, and took propet medicines. On the fifteenth day {he had a fliiveiingj and after it a very briik feven On the feventeenth fhe was Worfe in every refpeft. On the eigh* teenth a tumor appeared on the othet fide of the head. This was opened, and a fifllire difcovered in the right os parietale* A tre* phine xvas fet on this fiflure, and a difcharge given to a large quantity of matter. Every thing that could be done for her was done; hut on the twenty-third day fhe died. 4 TheFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. ig't The dura mater was feparated from botJf ' the parietal bones, and matter found in large quantity under each. ' /' It was for many years a generally received opiflioii^ that one ufe of the futures of the cranium was, to prevent the paffage of a frac- ture from oht of the bones to another. This purpofe they may undoubtedly liave often accidentally ferved; but that they are generally incapable of fo doing, manifold ex- perience evinces. Fra6lures are often feen to pafs regularly through a future, from one bone to the adjoining, without any difconti- nuation or impediment. This is a fad which ought, by writers and ledlurers, to be con- ftantly inculcated, as an inattention to it may be of very bad confequenee to individuals ; for the pradlitioner who fuppofes that a future will certainly, or not unfrequently,,fet bounds to a fra£lure, will, when he has traced fuch a kind of breach in one bone as far as the future into which it may happen to run, not think it at all neceffary to go farther and exa- mine the adjoining bone. A fufpicion of the ftrider adhefion of the dura mater to the fcull at the places of thefe futures than every where elfe, the fituatiou ofINJURIES Ot THE HEAt> of what are called linufes immediately under the futures, and a fear that either high and dangerous inflammation muft follow the vio- lent detachment of a part of them, or that an unreftrainable and fatal haemorrhage mufl enfue from a breach of thofe vefleis which pafs from the finiifes through the futures, have deterred moft of our anceftors from meddlin* with them, and induced them to deHver down to us frequent prohibitions againft the application of perforating inftruments upori them. Neither of thefe apprehenfions ''are founded in fa<51:, or in ftridl truth. The fepar- ation of the fcuU from the longitudinal finus is not attended neceflariLy with any kind or degree of inflammation peculiar to itfelf, or more than any other part of the dura mater; nor is the laceration or breach of the communicating vefleis between this flnus and the future which covers it, neceflarily followed by any fuch degree of haemorrhage as to prove hazardous or alarming ; as I have more than once expe- rienced. A perforating infl:rument mofl: certainly ought not wantonly or unneceflTarily to be fet on this part; and this for a reafon not drawn from any peculiar hazard attending fuch ope- ratioudFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 19^ ration. The larger lize, and greater number of veflels here than in other parts of the bone, will certainly caufe fuch a degree of bleedine, or haemorrhage, as'though eafily reftrainable when the piece of bone is removed, may yet^ ill the a6t of perforation, confiderably embar- rafs and perplex a young operator: it will therefore behove him, in general, to avoid comprehending the future within his faw; but ftill it is right that he fhould know, that when particular circumftances render, it abfo- lutely neceflary, fuch thing may be done very confiftently with his patient's fafety. Not .only a part of the fagittal future, covering the longitudinal finus, may be removed with a trephine, if neceflary, and no hazard be incurred from the breach of the attaching: vef- - fels; but a wound of the finus itfelf is by no means necejfarily attended with an unreftrain- able or fatal hasmorrhao:e. The very writers themfelves, who are fo apprehenfive of a wound of this part, forget the relations they every now and then give us of fragments of broken bone fafely extrafted from it. A mirtake concerning the nature of the finufes was (I fuppofe) the foundation of thefe ^OL. I. O apprehenfions.194 INJURIES OF THE HEAD apprehenfions. The idea which moft of our anceftors had of the motion of the dura mater induced them to believe that, as the finufes were compofed of this membrane, a wound made in them, like a wound in an arterial tube, could hardly re-unite. It is now uni- verfally known that they are merely venalj and that there is no fuch impediment to the immediate coalefcence of a wound in them, when it may happen to be accidentally in- flided. CASE XXVIL A BOY about eight years old, the fon of a Jew merchant in the city, received a blow on his head with a flick from his tutor. The ftroke made him giddy for a few minutes j but as no blood was flied, and the pain foon ceafed, he concealed it till it was difcovered by his barber that his head was fwollen in that part. In the middle of the top of his head was a tumor, about the fize of a common walnut: it was indolent, had a dull kind of pulfation, and palpably contained a fluid. Mr. Serjeant Amyand and Mr. Shipton were joined with me. In their prefence I f dividedFROM EXfTERNAL VIOLENCE. I95 divided the tumor with a l^hife, and let out a quantity of fluid venal blood. When as much had been difcharged aa the tumor mig^ht-be fuppofed to have contained, we were furprifed to find the blood ftrlL continue ta flow, plainly not from the wounded fcalp, but from th« bottom of the cavity* Upon examination, it was found that the fagittal future was broken, that a portion of the fra^lure was forced into the finus, and that the blood ilTued by the fides of this frag- ment. Extradion of this fragment was attempted, but to no purpofe. By the dire£lion of the eonfultants, I made a fmall perforation on one fide of the future; but when that was done, the point of the elevator could not be fo introduced as to get the broken piece out. The trephine was then applied on the other fide of the future, and to the famie effed:, or rather no efFed. The fragment was only capable of being extraded as it had' gone in. At lafl, after much deliberation and Converfa- t-ion about the hazard of wounding a fmus, (which was indeed already wounded by the broken bone) it was agreed to fet a trephine on the future, in fuch manner that the. whole O z furfaceINJURIES OF THE HS;AD furface fhould be comprehended within its circle. This was done; . but when the ele- vator was applied, the piece- fawed came out in fragments, and left the one portion which had .pierced the fmus ftill flicking in it. We were then neceffitated to lay hold; of.it,, and extrad it with a pair of forceps. ' A flux of blood followed, but by the application of a - fmall doffil of dry lint, held on, for ;a few minutes, it ceafed, and never recurred. The patient is alive at the time of my writing this. :^ c A s E xxvm. A GIRL about fixteen-.was knocked down by her mother withan>nron .poker of con-' fiderable weight; the latter immediately ran away, and , the, former was brought fenfelefs to the hofpital. She had, a large wound on the" top of her head, with a confiderable frac- ture of the fagittal future. The broken pieces were fo large, and fo loofe, as to be eafily removeable without any perforation. When they were taken away, the longitu- dinal finias was left bare, at leaft two inches in length; but no hasmorrhage followed the removal of the fragments. ForFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 197 - FoF-three days fhe was bled twice a day, from one part or other of her, and ftools were procured iri fuch manner as was poffi- ble, but to no purpofe; fhe jftill remained perfedlly and abfolutely. fenfelefs. On the fifth day, finding her flill in the fame flate, and verily believing that nothing in art could at all ferve her, I made an opening with a lancet into the longitudinal finus, and fuffered the blood to run off, until her countenance, which was much flufhed, became pale, and her pulfe, which till now had been full and ftrong, though labouring, faultered confider- ably; in fhort, till fhe Ihewed as much as a fenfelefs perfon could the marks of a deli- quium from inanition. I then put a bit of lint on the orifice, and ordered the nurfe to keep her finger lightly on it until I had vifited the refl of the houfe. When I returned, the part fhewed no difpofition to bleed again, nor did it ever after. That afternoon flie opened her eyes and moved her arms, and the next morning was fenfible enough to afk for drink. She retained her fenfes for feveral .days, but a fever coming on; fhe became de- Jiriou§ and convulfed, ^ind died fo on the fcr O 3 ' venteenth198 INJURIES OF THE HEAU venteenth day from that of her admillion into the hofpital. Upon examination, after death, a confider- able abfcefs was found on the furface of the brain, on one lide of the falpiforni procefs of the dura mat^r, I fhould be very forry to be fo mifunder-? flood, as to have it conceived that I have re- lated thefe cafipg with a view to encourage the opening of a longitudinal finus; that is far frorn my intention ; I only mean, by adduc- ing thefe inftances, to prove that our fears of irremediable mifchief from fuch wounds, whether accidentally or artificially inflided, are not well grounded; and that we may, in fome defperate cafes, have recourfe to fuch means as have been fuppofed to be either im? prailicable or unwarrantable. A furgeon fhould ever be cautious ; but ill-grounded apprehenfions will neceffarily prevent im^ provements, and hinder us in fome cafes from attempting what may prove beneficial to. mankind. Had every fucceffor to Hippo- crates been of his opinion, the operation of lithotomy had never arrived at its prefent ilateFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. I99 fiate of perfedion, aud mankind had been fufFered to langui(h under, and be deftroyed by, a moft tedious as well as excruciating , malady. SECT. V. FRACTURES OF THE CRANIUM WITH DEPRESSION. Simple fraftures of the fcull, or thofe in ^vhich the parts of the broken bone are not deprelTed from their fituation, differ from what are called fijTures, only in the diftance of the edges of breach from each other. "When the feparation is confiderable it is called a frafture, when it is very fine and fmall it is called a fiffure. The chirurgical intention and requifite treatment is the fame in each, viz. to procure a difcharge for any fluid which may be extravafated in prefent, and to guard againft the formation or confinement of mat- ter in future. But in fra£lures attended with depreffion, the, intentions are more^ In thefe, the depreffed' parts to be elevated, and fu"Ch O 4 as,200 INJURIES OF THE HEAD as are fo feparated as to be incapable of re- union, or of being brought to lie properly and without preffing on the braiq, are to be to- tally removed, Thefe circumflances are peculiar to a de- preffed fradure; but.although they are pecu- liar, they muft not be confidered as fole, but as additional to all thofe which have been mentioned at large under the head of fimple fradure: conimotion, extravafation, inflam- mation, fuppuration, and every ill which can attend on or be found in the latter, are to be met with in the former, and will re- quire the fame method of treatment. To , free the brain from preflure, and to provide a free difcharge for blood or lymph .at prefent, or for-matter in future, by elevat- ing the depreffed pieces, and by removing fuch as were loofe, was as well known to the antients to be the proper curative intentions, as they'can be to. us; but the means which they made ufe of in order to.accomplifn thefe ends were fomewhat different to what are now ufed, and laboured under fome inconve- niences which later praditioners have cor- rected. ., This difference it may be wortl:^ while to inquire into.FROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 201 Mofl of the attempts made by our an- ceftors, for the elevation of depreffed parts of the cranium, were made by the application of inftruments to the parts fo depreffed. This was a palpable imperfedion, to fay no more of it; but this was not all; for the in- flruments which they made ufe of on thefe occalions were not only to be faftened to the depreffed part of the bone, but required alfo fome degree of force to be ufed in faftenins: them to fuch part. The troclea tripes, the troclea bipes, and all the pieces of machinery defigned by Albucafis, Guido, Andreas a Cruce, Fabritius ab Aquapendente, Pare, and Scultetus, as well as thofe delineated by Hildanus and Peter Paaw, are proofs of this: they all require a perforation to be made in the depreffed piece, either by or for the fcrew with which it is to be elevated. Now, not to mention that moft of thefe inftruments were fo complex as to render them extremely aukward and unmanageable, it is obvious, that by the application of any of them to the depreffed pieces, (efpecially if they were loofe) all the ills lirifing from preffure made on the parts underneath muft be increafed ; md that in many cafes they could not be ufed•202 INJURIES OF THE HEAD at all. Celfus has indeed diredled the me- ningophylax to be ufed as an elevator; which inftrument differs but little from the elevator ufed at prefent, either in form or manner of application ; but then the opening through which it is to be intrpduced is to be made either with the terebra or the cyhfcos, the inconveniences of which have already been remarked. In fhort, all the objedions which the old perforating inftruments were liable to in fimple undepreffed fradures being of ftili greater force in fractures with depreflion, and the appHcation of any kind of inftrument whatever to the outer furface of a depreffed or loofe piece of fcull being palpably wrong, and liable to hazard, the prefent praditioners are cfertainly vindicable in having laid them all afide, and in having endeavoured tp accom- plilh the fame end by means which arp lefs hazardous and lefs operofe. The trephine is (as I have before obferved) the only per- forating inftrument ufed by the be(l of the prefent praftitioners in Englandwith this, an opening is made in the fpund undeprelTed part pf the cranium, and thrpugh fuch open- ing an inftrument called from its ufe an eleva- tpr is intrpduced. This perforation fhould eitherFRpM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE, 203 either comprehend the border of the fraanre where that is poffible, or if that cannot con- veniently be done, fhould be made as near to it as poffible, for reafons too obvious to need recital. What number of perforations may- be neceflary can only be determined by the particular circumftances of each individual cafe; all the intentions which may arife from pxtravafation of fluid, or probability of fup- puration, as well as thofe from the depreflion of bone, muft be fulfilled, or the work will be left imperfed:, and little chance of good will attend it. When the whole difeafe feems to confift in the mere depreflion of the bone, and what fymptoms attend feem to proceed from that alone, the elevation of fuch portion may pror cure immediate remiflion of fuch fymptoms, and afford a reafonable profpeft of fuccefs. But as the injury is not always of fo fimple a na-i ture, as other parts are fo frequently hurt and other mifchief done by fuch great violence, the remiffion, or difappearance of fuch fymp-r. toms as arife merely from fuch preffure, can- not be a fufficient warrant, either for promif-. ing or for expedling fuccefs« The dura mater under the deprcffed piece, or even in another part204 INJURIES OF THE HEAD part of the head, may have been fo hurt as to hecome inflamed, and to fuppurate; the fymptoms of which will not appear imme- diately, nor in general until fome time is paft: but however late they may come on, they will not therefore be the lefs certain or the lefs hazardous. The early attack of thofe which are caufed by extravafated fluid or de- prefled bone, do by no means preclude the later acceflion of fuch as arife from inflamma- tion and putrefaaion. The depreffed piece of bone does moft certainly require our im-^ > mediate help, but the afliftance lent to that, however proper and effedual, does not render it at all lefs neceffary to guard againfl: fuch ill as may moft reafonably be expeaed to proceed from violence fuftained by the parts under- neath. A blow, which has been fufficient to break and deprefs a portion of the fcull, very frequently does fuch damage to the tender veffels which communicate between that bone and the meninges, as to be the caufe of much more, as well as greater ill, than what is de^ ducible from the mere fradure; and confe- quently, although the elevation of the bone is one very neceflary part of the furgeon's bufi- nefs in thefe cafes, yet it is very far from beingFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. iO^ being a// that he has to do. All the ills which may be apprehended from every other poflible efFed of fuch violences, are to be feared and guarded againft, and that full as much in the fra6lure w^ith depreflion, as in that with* out. -. This is a part of praftice which ought to be very. carefuUy'attended to. The generality of writers have contented themfelves with directing us to raife up the. depreffed parts, and thereby to endeavour to remove fuch fymptoms as are caufed by the mere preffure which the bone makes on the brain; but have either totally negledled, or very flightly paffed over, what is of full as much confequence to the patient; I mean the injury which is moft frequently done to the membranes of the brain, and which, if neglefted, will cer- tainly produce that fever, and thofe fymptoms which fo often baffle, the whole power of medicine. The combination of different ill effeds, proceeding from the fame primary violence, and concurring in the fame fubje£l, together with the great difficulty of diftinguifhing them from each other, is one of the principal caufes of that perplexing uncertainty attending wounds «to6 INJtJRIES OF THE BEA^'.". wounds of the head. When one caufc of ba<! fymptoms has been removed, another, or evetl feveral others, may ftill remain* each of which fingly may be fufficient to deftroy the patient; and therefore, although the means fifft made ufe of may have been fuch as have been pointed omt by the earheft itid moft alarming fymp- toms, and extremely proper for the relief of fuch complaint, had it been the only one the patient laboured under, yet in the cafe of a comphcation, by not being fufficient to an- fwer every rSquifite intention, they very often anfwer none, at leaft not effedtually; and producing only a temporary and partial relief, prove a greater aggravation of our difappoint- ment. This every praditioner fhould know, and this the friends of every patient fhould be made acquainted with, left the former, being deceived by an appearance of amendment, be induced to promife what it will not be in his power to perform; and the latter, having had their hopes exalted, fhould be the more feverely hurt by their difappointment. If the frafture be but fmall, the deprelTion little, and the force with which it was pro- duced not great, the elevator introduced throughFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 207 In through the perforation may be fufficient to fet it to rights; and if there be no urgent fymptoms, nor any mifchief done to the in- ternal parts, may be fufficiefit for all purpofes. But if the force was great, if the fymptoms are immediate and preffing, if the fradure runs in a form inclined to a circular one, or if the deprefl'ed piece be cracked all round, the befl and fafefl way is to remove the whole or greater part of the portion fo depreffed and circumfcribed. To thofe who are unufed to things of this fort, fo large an opening as fuch method of adling mufl make will have a very tremen- dous appearance; and they may be inclined to fufpeft much hazard and inconvenience from laying bare fo large a portion of the dura mater; but let all fuch remember, that how- ever large the quantity of membrane may be which fhall be thus denuded by the operation, yet the fame quantity at leaft, moft probably a much larger, would, in all likelihood, become inflamed, and generate matter on its furface ; which matter, for want of a timely, ready, and fufficient outlet, would do confiderably more mifchief than the mere deteaion of the faid membrane can do.2o8 INJURIES OF THE HEAD In cafes where the broken pieces of a de- preffed fradure are widely feparated from each other, and fome of them a good deal loofened, the expediency'and the propriety of removing fuch pieces is acknowledged by every body ; but few people attend to the reafon, or in- quire why fuch praftice is juft and proper; if they did, they would alfo fee that the free removal of bone was equally proper in the cafe of great violence, as in that of loofened or widely feparated pieces. In the latter, the broken parts' are removed, becaufe their re- union with the reft of the cranium, and the prefefvation of the attachment of the dura mater to the inner furface of them, is thought impoflibfe, or at leaft highly improbable; and that therefore they muft be in the way, and hinder the free difcharge of matter from the fuppurating membrane. And is not the fame inconvenience full as likely to attend the for- mer ? Is it the violence done to the bone, and through it to the membrane, which caufes the inflammation and fuppuration ? or is it the loofened or feparated ftate of the broken part ? If it be the former, (as it moft undoubtedly muft be) the lame precautions, the fame me- thod of treatment muft be equally nccelfary intROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 20^ in the one as in the other; the reafons, the intentions are the fame in each^ and if the eondudl be not the fame, the patient will fufFer. The peculiar cireumftances of each indivi- dual cafe muft furnifh diredioil to the pradti- tioner for his particular conduct. Rules to be laid down by a writer on fuch fubje£l can be only general. The parts which are deprefled muft be elevated, fuch as are loofe, and can- not be brought to lie even, fuch as cannot be prevented from preffing on the membrane, or fuch as wound or irritate it j muft at all events be taken away; the free difcharge of blood or lymph, in prefent^ and of matter in future^ muft be provided for, and therefore every fymptom and appearance muft carefully and early be attended to, left the moft proper op- portunity of giving affiftance be not embraced. The circumftances juft mentioned are fuch as cannot be negleded but at the riik of th^ patient, and therefore the prohibitions which our forefathers have delivered down to us, with regard to the parts of the fcuU oil which they fay we ought not at any rate to apply our perforating inftruments, muft be received with fome limitation. ' Vol. L P The210 INJURIES OF THE HEAO The places forbidden as improper are, the futures, the lower part of the os occlpitale, the ofla temporum, and that part of the os frontale where the finufes are fituated. That a trephine may without hazard be applied on a luture, I have already faid. When it may with equal utility be fet on any other part, the futures fliould undoubtedly be avoided, and that for a good reafon, exclufive of any peculiar hazard: but that part of a future may (the cafe requiring it) be fafely removed, is true beyond all doubt. That many of the old pra£litioners were very ap- prehenfive of mifchief from hence, is not to be; wondered at by any body who conliders their idea of the nature of the fubjacent finufes, and the ftrange unmanageable inftruments with which they operated. Not that there are wanting: old writers who have held the' doclrine of operating on a future, when ne- ceffiiry, very defenfible, among whom is J, Baptifr. Ccrtelius. Perforation of the temporal bones has been forbid, both on account of the. artery and the mufcle which are on its lurface ; unreftrain- able haemorrhage having been dreaded from the one, and fatal convulfion from the other :. butFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 21 i but experience may convince us, that neither of thefe appreheniioils are ftriaiy juft. The temporal artery, when divided, is often ca- pable of being reftrained by compreffion, and always by ligature; and that fatal convulfion, which is vulgarly called the locked jaw, though it produces one of its moft ftriking and moft vifible efFeds on thefe mufcles, is not neceffarily produced by a wound of either of them, more than by a wound of any other. In fhort, the upper part of the temporal bones may be laid bare, if neceffary, by an incilToii made through the mufcles covering them; and may alfo be perforated,. Such operation does not indeed often prove fuccefsful; but the failure of fuccefs does not proceed from the nature of the parts operated upon, but from a circumftance of much more confe- quence, and generally without remedy; which is, that in thefe fradures the breach is moft commonly continued on to the bafis of the fcuU, and is alfo moft frequently attended by a large extravafation within or under the brahi and cerebellum \ When » Whoever will examine the dlfpofition of the temporal mufcle will fee, that its aponeurofis covers a \-ery confiderable P 2 part212 INJURIES OF THE HEAB When the depreffed parts have been raifetl up, the loofe ones removed, extravafated fluid difcharged, the brain freed from pret- fure, and way made for the free exit of what- ever may be formed or coUeded, the bare dura mater fhou-ld be drefled as eafily and lightly as poffible. Oar aiiceftors had a mul- tiplicity of medicaments, which they ufed upon thefe occafions, and were very precife in fuitingt-hem to the different ftates (as they called them) of the fore and membrane. They were alfo very exaft in making and applying thofe pieces of linen or of filk, called fuidons, which tljey ufed to imbue with the faid remedies, and drefs the bare dura mater with. I have taken no notice of either, be- caufe I verily believe that .the majority of the former were abfolutely lifelefs, and that the very exad application of the latter was pre- . judicial, by confining, in fome degree, what ought to be difcharged with the utmoil free- dom. Wounds of the brain, among, writers on part of the inferior border of the os parietale; and conTe- quently, that fuch part of the bone can never be laid bare without a divifion or removal of a part of the faid aponeurotic cxpanfion. thisFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 213 this fubjea, have alfo generally made a diftina chapter ; but the treatment of them is fo very little different from thofe which have been already related, that they may fairly be comprehended under the fame article. The brain is wounded either by the in- ftrument or body whereby the fcuU is broken, or by broken parts of the cranium; foreign bodies alfo, fuch as bullets, fplinters, parts ^ of weapons, wadding of fire-arms, &c. are ffemetimes lodged in it; but let the wound or fradure be what it may ; or whatever other circumftances may happen to attend, the chirurgic treatment is fhort and plain, viz. tb remove all fuch parts of the broken fcull, as may prefs, wound, or irritate the brain, or its membranes ; to take away all fuch extra- neous bodies, as can eafily, and without vio- lence be got at and extradled; and to make fuch an opening, as may moft conveniently ferve the purpofe of difcharging blood, ferum . or matter, either in prefent or in future. When all thefe things have been done, and the patient has been put under a proper re- gimen,, both of diet and medicine, the fur- P 3 geon214 INJURIES OF THE HEAD geoii has dpne his dutj, and may fay with Mr. Pope, « Thus far was right; the reft we leave to heaven.". For with regard to the dreffings proper in thefe cafes, they are not at all different from fhbfe which ought to be ufed, where neither the brain nor its meninges are hurt. They fhould be foft, light, and not confill of any thing greafy, or which can polhbly irritate or inflame; nor (hould they be applied in fuch manner or quantity as to prefs or obftrudl tl^a free difcharge of fluids of any kind. Soft dry lint is perhaps equal to any or all others. In the chirurgical writers are to be found a great many formula, but whoever places confi- deace in them, for any fuppofed merit of their own,' will find himfelf .much- difap- pointed. I cannot quit this fubjea, without making a fhort remark on the bandages moft fre- quently advifed, and ufed in wounds of the head, In all the writers on the fuhjedl of fafciae, are to be found defcriptions and delineations of thofe which are laid to be moft proper for theFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 215 the head. On, paper they are neat and ele- gant, in the apphcation they require a fmall degree of pradice and dexterity, and when apphed nicely may impofe on the .ignorant, <^nd on thofe who have not feen rnnch of, or refle(£led much on their inconvenience. They prefs, heat, and painfully confine the head, even when applied in the bell: and mofl ingenious manner ; and Vv'hen put on auk- wardly or negligently are frill more trouble- Ibme, and lefs ferviceable. All that can ever poffihly be wanted in thefe cafes from ban- dage n:iuft be, paerely to keep the dreflings in their place without any degree of confine- ment or preffure ; and this purpofe will al- ways be better accomplilhed by a loofe cot- ton or yarn night-cap, than by the niceft -^Liid mofl elaborate banda2;e that ever was in^ vented ^, CASE On tins fubjea I was very glad to find fo very good ^ judge as Oribafius of the fame opinion. , " Haec autem omnia non fafciis continentur, propter pond us, fed velamento, ut cohibcantiir, ncque cerebri inembrana gravatur; ac velamenti media pars, qux terebrato refpon- " det, forfice exciditur, ut Jipcrtuni fiat, atque in illud fpa- " tium lana mollis, in extremis conaricla, duplex inditur," &c. " Plerlque omnes non alia vinclura tcrcbratos dcligant; fed f' fola redemiciili circumdudlioue conlentl fint. Q^inetiam P 4 " ipfaINJURIES OF THE HEAD 3l6 CASE XXIX. A GIRL, about fifteen years old, croffing Smithfield on a market-day, was toffed by an ox, and fell with her head on the flat flones within the pofts. As her drefs was mean, ^nd nobody knew any thing of her, fhe was brought fenfelefs into the hofpital. She had a large bruife on the right fide of her head, through which I plainly felt a fradlure with depreflion. The fcalp being removed from that part, the.fradlure was found to be large, and the depreffion confide^able; it traverfed the OS parietale from before backward, in its middle part between the faggitt^l and tem- poral futures, and the depreffion was of the "Upper part of the bone. I applied a trephine on the inferior and undeprefl'ed part, and by means of an elevator raifed the whole to a *' ipfa quoque ulcera extra terebrationem, quoad fieri poteft, <' conari debemus fine fafciis curare; non modo quia gravan- tur compreffis iis qux fub vinculis impofita ipfis fuerant, " verum etiam quia plus quam par eft califaciunt. Etenim quod in aliis partibus vindtura, id in capite pofitio prseliabit, ideo deligare fupervacaneum erit." ' ORiBASiusi)f fraSl, ex Heliodcrt. perfc<fl:FROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. '>T>7 perfe£l equality. Her head was drelTed lightly, and fixteen ounces of blood were taken from her. She paffed the following night very unquietly, and the next morning was {till fenfelefs. She was again freely bled, and a purge was given, which foon operated. On the third day, her pulfe admitting, and her circumftances requiring it, fhe was bled again. On the fourth day ihe became fenfible, and on the fifth was furprifmgly well. She re- mained fo until the ninth, on the evening of which fhe complained of head-ach, ficknefs, and giddinefs. She was again let blood, and put under the direaion of the phyfician, who ordered fome medicines for her. From the ninth to the thirteenth day fhe remained much the fame, that is to fay, feverifli, and complaining w keit, thirft, head-ach, and watching. On the fourteenth fhe had a fe- vere rigor, and the fore on the fcalp as well as the denuded dura mater wore a very bad afpeft. From this time (he became daily worfe and worfe, in every refped; and on the twentieth day from that of the accident, ^ ^he died, having been terribly flmken by pfafms for feveral hours. All the infernal furface of the os parietale above2l8 INJURIES OF THE HEAD above the fradure \yas detached from the dura mater, and covered with matter, which could not obtain free difcharge at the perforation, the membrane being inflamed and thruft up tight againft it, I will not pretend to affert, that repeated perforation' of the upper part of the bone would have preferved her; but I muft fay, as the cafe turned out, it would have been her beft, if not her only chance ; and that, if I had known at that time as much of thefe cafes as I think I have fince learned, 1 fhould certainly have taken away the greateft part, if not the ,whole of what had been depreffed. CASE XXX. A gentleman's fervant #ding carelefsly and haftily through London, was thrown from his horfe, and ftruck his forehead againft a fharp Ifone. There was a confiderable wound on the fcalp, and a fradure, with de- preffion of the os frontale. The man was perfedly deprived of fenfe, the bone was con- fiderably depreffed, and a large quantity of blood , iffued from underneath the deprefled part. A trephine was applied on the unde-FROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 219 prefied part, and the elevation accomplifhed ; he was let blood freely, and dreffed lightly. On the fecond and third days he was let blood again. On the fourth he recovered his ienfes, and from that day to the ninth feemed to go on well. On the ninth in the evening he complained of pain and laffitude, and was ill that night and all the next day. On the eleventh he was worfe, and (to ufe his own words) faid, his brains were bound round with a fillet, like a collar of brawn. His pulfe was hard, frequent, and jarring, his ikm hot, and he got no fleep at all. As the man was evidently and haftily getting into a hazardous ftate, 1 was determined to try what a free removal of bone would do; and with a large trephine took away almoft the whole of what had been depreffed. The dura mater was not purulent, but dull in co- lour, and fmeared over with what Morgagni fays, is gelatinis inftar. He was again and again let blood, as his pulfe would bear, and the phyfician ordered proper medicines for him. For four days from this time he continued much the fame, |3ut after that every thing changed for the better;220 INJURIES OF THE HEAD ■better; he took the cortex freely, and in about three months was difcharged well. As I would not pretend to affert, that re- moval of more bone would have proved fuc- cefsful in the preceding cafe, fo neither will I fay that the recovery of this man was owing to it. I can only fay, I verily believe both, and that I am forry I did not make the fame experiment in both. The cafes were materially limilar; and the analogical is the only method we have of reafoning on fub" jeils like this, wherein we cannot have de^ monftration. CASE XXXI. A BOY about fourteen years old, following a led horfe, was defired by the fervant, in whofe hand the horfe was, to ftrike him; the boy did fo, and received a blow from one ©f the horfe's heels, which brought him to the ground fenfelefs. He had on the upper and middle part of his forehead a large wound, which difclofed a confiderable fradure, with depreffion. The fradure ran nearly in a tranfverfe di- redion acrofs the bone, and the depreffion was^ROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 221 was of the upper part. A trephine was ap- plied, an elevator introduced, and the de- preffed part of the bone with fome difficulty- made to lie even. The head was dreffed lightly, and the boy was let blood largely. He continued fenfelefs all that night, was let blood twice the next day, and had a purge and a glyfter. On the fourth day he fhewed fome figns of fenfe ; and in two more, being again let blood and kept very low, was quite fenfible. From this day until the fourteenth, every circumftance was promifing, but on that day he again became ill; his pulfe froni: this time was hard and quick, and, in fhort, he had for three or four days all the fymp- toms of mifchief under the cranium. On the nineteenth I made a large perforation in that part of the bone v/hich had been deprefied and elevated, and gave difcharge to a very large quantity of offcnfive matter. On the twenty-fecond he became delirious and con- vulfed, and on the twenty-third died. I removed all the upper part of the cra- nium, and found the dura mater altered in colour, and feparated from the whole frontal bone, from the fra<5ture quite up to the figittal future;^^Z INJURIES OF THE HEAD future ; and under the faid membrane, matter to the quantity of about half an ounce. CASE XXXIL The following cafe was fent to me by a very ingenious praftitioner at fome diftance from London, and may, among others of like fort, ferve to prove that it is not merely the formation of matter between the fcuU and dura mater, but alfo the confinement of it there, which are the joint caufes of the bad lymptoms, and of the hazard. A boy fell from a cart loaded high with hay, and pitched perpendicularly on his head. The How ftunned him for a few minutes, but he foOn got up again, faid he was not hurt, and walked home with the cart* As he made no complaint at home, his mafter took no farther notice of his fall, and the boy followed his daily labour in the farm* yard. At the end of a fortnight he came to my friend,' and defired him to look at the fwelling on the upper part of the right fide of his head. TJie tumor appeared to be full of matter, and theJFROM external violence* 21^ the furgeon divided the fcalp, and let out a confiderable quantity. He pafled his fino-er in, in order to examine whether the cranium was bare or not, and was n9t a httle aftoniflied to find it not only bare but confiderably broken. He removed the tumid portion of the fcalp; and having fo done, found the diftind pieces of bone fo loofe as to be taken away without any refinance, and fo large as together to make nearly a third part of the parietal bone. The dura mater under them Was clean, and well incarned. The boy had no one bad fymptom from firft to laft, came to the furgeon's houfe every- day to be drelTed, and was alfo in the farm- yard daily. ' ' » il^i' III I'l'ffi 111 Mil iiiiiii ~, SECT. VI. EXTRAVASATION AND COMMOTION. Great and hazardous as the evils are which proceed from fraftures of the fcull, they do not exceed thofe which are caufed either by the extravafation of fluids within its' cavity,i24 INJURIES OF THE HEAD cavity, or by the concuffion or derangeriieiit of the fubftaiice of the brain ; whether we regard the difficulty under which a pra6li- tioner labours in forming a judgment of the true nature of the cafe, or the uncertainty, Or the frequent fatality of the event; The fhock which the head fometimes re- ceives by falls from,on high, or by ftrokes from ponderous bodies, does not infre- quently caufe a breach in fome of the veflelsj either of the brain or its meninges; and thereby occafions extravafation of the fluid, which fliould circulate through them. This extravafation may be the only complaint pro- duced by the accident; or it may be joined with, or added to, a fradlllre of the fculL But this is not all, for it may be produced not only when the cranium is unhurt by the blow, but even when no violence of any kind has beeii offered to or received by the head. Vertigo, vomiting, ftilj)idity, haemorrhage^ lofs of fenfe and motion, either partial or total, are the fymptoms of this kind of riiif- chief; fometimes one, or more, fometimes all,, in the fame fubjea:. Thefe fymptoms, which are all eafily . accountable for from ex^ travafation of fluid, and unnatural prefllure. mad© Il^ROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 225 ftiade on the brain and nerves, are, as I have ah-eady at large remarked, frequently miftaken as indications of a difeafe which, confidered abftra(5ledly, can never caufe them ; I mean a hmple undepreffed fradure of the craniurp : it may be accompanied by them, but cannot caufe them. When a fluid is extravafated in any confi- derable quantity within the cavity of the cra- nium, if any bad fymptoms are produced by it at all, they are, and muft be, fuch as indi- cate prefllire made on the brain and origin of the nerves; occafioning thereby either dif- turbance or abolition of the offices of fenfe and motion ; and this in different degree, ac- cording to the quantity, kind, and fituatioa of the preffing fluid ; and to thefe are fome- times added haemorrhage from the nofe or ears. Thus far, I think, we may pronounce pofitively; but to our very frequent mortifi- cation we find, thefe are the only circum- ftances which in fuch cafe we can depend upon, every thing elfe which relates or be- longs to them being involved in a moil: per- plexing obfcurity. We not only have no cer- tain infallible rule whereby to diflinguifli what ' the preffing fluid is, or where it i§ fituated. Vol. I. r2'26 INJURIES or* TriE HEAt) but we are in many inftances abfolutely inca- pable of knowing whether the fymptoms be occafioned by any fluid at all; for a fragment of bone, broken ofF from the internal table of the- eranium, and making an equal degree of preffur^e, will produce exaaiy the fame com- plaints. Sometimes indeed the cafe is otherwife; and, from concomitant appearances, the true na- ture of the difeafe may with fome degree of certainty be known; but this does not happen very often. Many of our aticeftors, when no fra£turc tvas- difcoverable in the cranium of a perfon labouring under fuch fymptoms as have been mentioned, in confequence of violence offered to the head, contented themfelves with call- ing the cafe a concuffion ; and although they had no very precife idea annexed to the term, yet they feldom went farther for a folution: like teeth and worms in infints, or like nerves in women, it fatisfied ignorant inquirers. The cranium was not broken, the mifchief was out of fight, moft probably out of reach, and they had not often the curiofity or the anato- mical judgment to examine after death into the real ftate of the cafe*. ThatFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. tf^ That a concuffion or commotion of the fubflance of the brain is a circumftance which frequently happens, is a truth beyond all doubt; and that it is often the caufe of death, is as true; but that many of the cafes which, the fcull being found not broken, have paflM for concuffions, have been really produced by^ very ditferent caufes, has often been incon- teftably proved by the examination of fuch perfons' heads after death ; where fuch extra- vafations of blood or lymph, or both, have been found, as would fairly and rationally account, both for the fymptoms, and for the event. A Gonculfion and an extravafation are very diftind caufes of mifchief, though not always very diftinguifliable. M. Le Dran, and others of tlie modern French writers, have made a very fenfible and juft diftindlion between that kind and degree of lofs of fenfe which arifes from a mere com- motion of the brain, and that which is caufed by a mere extravafition, in thofe inftances in which the time of the attack or appearance of fuch fymptoms are different or diftinft. The lofs of fenfe, which immediately follows the violence, fay they, is moft probably owing to a commotion; but that which comes on after Qs 2 anii^' iNjuRjEs OF rUE «eao an interval of time has paft, is moft probably caiifed by extravafation* This diftindlion is certainly juft and good, as far as it will go. That degree of abolition or diminution of fenfe, which immediately attends or follows the blow or fall, and goes off again without the affiftance of art, is in all probability oecafioned by the fudden lhake of temporary derangement of the contents of the head ; and the fame kind of fymptoms recur- ring again fome time after they had ceafed, ot not coming on until fome time has paffed from the receipt of the violence, do moft pro- bably proceed from the breach of a velTel within of upon the brain. But unluckily we have it not very often in our power to make this exadt diftin(5lion/ An extravafation is often made fo immediately,- and fo largely, at the inftant of the accident, that all fenfe and motion are inftantaneoufiy loft, and never again return. And it alfo fometimes happens, that although an extravafation may poffibly not have been made at the moment of the accident, and the firft complaints may have been owing to eom- mbtion merely, yet a quantity of fluid having been fhcd from its proper veffels very foon after the accident, and producing its proper fymptoms,FROM EXtERNAL VIOLENCE. 229 fymptoms, before thofe caufed by the com- motion have had time to go ofF, the fimilarity of the effeds of each of thefe ditFereut caufes is fuch, as to deprive us of all power of diftin- guifhing between the one and the other, or of determining with any tolerable precifion to which of them fuch fymptoms as remain are really owing. When an extravafation of any kind is made^ either upon or within the brain, if it be m fuch quantity, or fo fituated, as to diforder the economy or the animal, it always pro- duces fuch diforder, by making an unnatural prelTure on the parts where it Hes. The na- ture and degree of the fymptoms hereby produced are various and different in dif- ferent perfons, according to the kind, quan- tity, and fituation of the prelfing fluid. Sometimes it is mere fluid blood, fometimes blood in a ftate of coagulation, fometimes it is a clear lymph, and at others blood and water are found mixed together; each of thefe is found either Ample or mixed in differ- ent fituations, that is, between the fcull and dura mater, betweeri the dura and pia mater, or in the natural cavities of the brain called ^ts ventricles, and fometimes, in cafes of great 0^3 violence,2^0 JNJITRIES OF THE HEAD violence, they are found at the fame time in all thefe different parts. Sometimes a confi- derable quantity is Ihed inftantly, at the time of the accident; and fometimes the breach by which the effufion is made is fo circumftan- ced, both as to nature and fituation, that it is at firif very fmall, and increafes by fafler or flower degrees. In the former, the fymp- toms are generally immediate and urgent, and the extravafation is of the hloody kind; in the latter, they are frequently flight at firft, appear after fon^e little interval of time, iri- creafe gradually tiU they become urgent or fatal, and are in fuch cafe generally occafioned by extravafated lymph. So that although the immediate appearance of bad fymptoms does mofl: certainly imply mifchief of fome kind or other, yet, on the other hand, no man ought to fuppofe his pj^tient free from hazard, either becaufe fuch fymptoms do not fhovv them- felves at firfl:, or becaufe they appear to be but flight: they which come on late, or ap- pearing flight at firfl; increafe gradually, being full as much to be dreaded as to confequence, as the more immediately alarming ones; with this material difference between them, th^t |he one majf be the confequence of a mere concufiiouFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 23I concuffion of the brain, and may by means of quietude and evacuation go quite off; whereas, the other being moft frequently owing to an extravafation of lymph, (though fometimes of blood alfb) within the fubftance of the brain, are very feldom removed by art. Extravafations of any kind, and wherever fituated within the cranium, are very hazard- pus, and much more frequently end fatally than happily; but, confidered as relative to the art of furgery, that which confifts of merely fluid blood fituated between the cra- nium and dura mater is certainly the beft, as it is the neareft to the furface, and admits the greateft probability of being reUeved by per- foration of the fcull: grumous or coagulated blood, although in the fame fituation, by be- ing moft frequently adherent to the mem- brane, is not fo readily difcharged as the pre- ceding, and therefore more likely to prove deftruaive: and all thofe which are either' under the meninges, or within the cavities or fubftance of the brain, as they are very fel- dom within our exad knowledge, fo they are alfo generally beyond the reach of our art. The method of treating people under thefe unhappy circumftances is fomewhat differ- 0^4 ent 5INJURIES OF THE HEAD cnt, according to the fuppofed or moft pro* table nature of the complaint, and according to the fymptoms and appearances which it produces, or which accompany it. When the fymptoms which imply a preiTure made on the brain qr nerves have been occafioned merely by a (hake or concuffion, and neither blow nor other external violence has been offered to or received by the head, we have no rule whereby to form any other than a general opinion; no mark which can point out to us, either the precife nature of the difeafe, or its particular fituation ; confe- quently we have no direftion from what part of the head to remove the fcalp, or where to apply a perforating inftrument, and therefore no authority for perforating at all. In this cafe, the only chance of relief is from phle- botomy and an open belly ; by which we may hope fo to leffen the quantity of the circulating fluids as to afTift nature in the diffipation or abforption of what has been ex- travalated. This is an effeft which, although not highly improbable in itfelf, yet is not to be expected from a flight or trifling apphca- tiorx of the means propofed. The uie of ttiem rauft be proportioned to the hazard of theFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 233 the cafe. Blood muft be drawn off freely and repeatedly, and from different veins; the belly muft be kept conftantly open, the body quiet, and the ftrifteft regularity of general regimen muft be rigidly obferved. By thefe pieans, very alarming fymptoms have now and then been rernoved, and people in feem^ ingly very hazardous circumftances have been recovered. Inftances of thefe fuccefles are not indeed fo frequent as we could wifh, but they have been fuffieiently fo to warrant the attempt, efpecially in- cafes where there are no indications to authorife the yfe of any pther. But when the fymptoms of extrava- fation are the confequence of fuch external violence as leaves a mark where It was in- fli£ted, and when the fcalp is fo bruifed or wounded as to fhew the place where, we then have fome degree of affiftance, both in form- ing a judgment of the moft probable nature of the complaint, and in ufmg the means moft likely to prove fuccefsful in its relief. For if the effufion has been the confequence of the ftroke which the head has received, and fuch effufion is made immediately under the part fo ftricken, xhe perforation of the cranium in this place may give difcharge to the extra- vafated234 INJURIES OF THE HEAD vafated fluid; and the wound or bruife in the fcalp (hews us the point from whence we ought to remove a portion of it, in order to^ perforate the cranium. This I fay is fome- times the cafe, and the confequence is fome- times fo fortunate that we fave a perifhing patient. But, although it does now and then happen that we are fo lucky, yet fuch fuc- <cefs is by no means certain or to be depended upon. Every thing relative to this kind of diforder is fallible and uncertain ; and though the extravafation is fometimes found imme- diately under the external mark, yet it often happens that it is not, and that the effufion is made in a part diftant from that mark, and to which we have jiothing to lead us. Upon the whole, although a bruife or Vv'Qund of the fcalp does not in thefe cafes neceffarily or cer- tainly point out the feat of an extravafation, yet when bad fymptoms urge, and evacuation has bpen fuUy and unfuccefsfully tried, fuch rnark may be deemed a fufficient though not unerring authority for making farther in- quiry, by removing the fcalp and perforating the cranium: for this is a kind of cale in which we are not to expeft certainty, and m which we muft be content with fuch inform- ationFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 235 atiou as we can obtain. The opportunities which we have of being ferviceable are but few ; we fhould therefore fufFer none to efcape, but embrace even poffibility. The general advice given by Fabritius ab Aqua- pendente ^ is apphcable to no part of furgery more than to this; in which the lofs of a very fhort fpace of tirne is often abfolutely irretrievable. If the extravafation be of blood, and that blood be in a fluid ftate, fmall in quantity, and lying between the fcull and dura mater, immediately under or near to the place per- forated, it may happily be all difchargcd by fuch perforation, and the patient's life may thereby be faved; of which many inftances are producible. But if the event does not prove fo fortunate, if the extravafation be fo large or fo fituated that the operation proves infufficient, yet the fymptoms having been urgent, general evacuation having been ufed ineffedually, and a wound or bruife of the fcalp having pointed out the part which ^ " In vulneribus qua natura fua admodum periculofa funt, " pefllmum eft expeftare prava fymptomata; & tunc demum " providerc, cum fovfitan occafio prseteriit, nec amplius pro- " videre licet." Fab. ab Aquapbndente, moft236 INJURIES OF THE HEAD moft probably received the blow; although the removal of that part of the fcalp fhould not dete6l any injury done to the bone, yet the fymptoms ftill fubfifting, I cannot help thinking, that perforation of the cranium is in thefe circumftances fo fully warranted, that the omiffion of it may truly be called a negleft of having done that which might have proved ferviceable, and, rebus Jlc JlanttbuSy can do no harm. It is very true, that no man can beforehand tell whether fuch oper- ation will prove beneficial or not, becaufe he cannot know the precife nature, degree, or fituation of the mifchief; but this uncer- tainty, properly confidered, is fo far from being a diffuafive from the attempt, that it is really a ftrong incitement to make it; it be- ing full as impoffible to know that the extra- vafated fluid does mt lie between the fculi and dura mater, and that under the part ftricken, as that it does ; and if the latter (hould be the cafe, and the operation be not performed, one, and moft probably the only means of relief, will have been omitted. Morgagni, in his book de Caufis et Sedibus, &C. has treated this fubjea exprefsly, and has enumerated all the objeaions which may beFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 237 be made to the perforation of the cranium, in the cafe of efFufion of fluid within it''; but among others he has mentioned a popular one, which prevails much among his countrymen. Viz. the fear of having been thought to have deftroyed thofe, whom in the nature of things they could not fave, ne fic occifi, qui jfer- " vari non potuerant, viderentur.'* With all poffible deference to fo able a man, I muft fay, that this does not feem to me to be by tiny means a good reafon, or one which ought ^ " Nam ut figna fint, ex quibus liceat fuljpicari fanguinem " intra calvariam elTe eftufum, quis fcire pro certo poffit, aa *' re vera; et fi hoc etiam fciret, in quam partem effufus fitj " 8c quod confequitur, ubi et fit perterebrandum," &:c. " Nam prater unum, qui majorem fortafle exterius dolorem ** moveat, alia efTe polTunt loca, fub quibus majus revera lateat *' internum vitium. " In cognofcendo quam fallaces fepe fint conjefturae, vel *' hinc apparet, quod 8c fi pars ipfa ifta, ab xgro indicatur, *' imo ecchymofi Sc tumore fe ipfam prsclare indicet, non raro tamen cafus incidunt, id quibus alia pars lit contufa, alia ** in quam effufio fafta fit. ** Satis jam fuperque intelligis cafus incidere, in quibus aut " nulla, aut tarn levia, inter initia fe offerunt, effufi intra cra- " nium fanguinis figna, tot autem, & tarn gravia poll longura *' imervallum confeftim fe ingerunt, ut neque primo illo oppor- " tuno tempore xger ex timore periculi, ut terebram admittat, neque extremo fperare polTent medici, opem fe per eam alla- ^ turos,tam longo fpatio & tam perniciofis indiciis extantibus." MoRGACNiD? Caitfis y Se(i. Morler. to23S . INjURIE'S OF THE KEAO to be formed into a maxim for pra£litlonefs t ■ it is founded on the weaknefs and incapacity of thofe who pretend to judge of what they do not underftand, and therefore Ihould never be embraced through a felf-interefted princi- ple by thofe who know better. If fuch rule was univerfally admitted, we Ihould often be prevented from employing a critical opportu- nity, or ufmg what in many cafes is the uni- cum remediura, not only in this difeafe but in many others. The cafe of Ptolemy, cited by him from Livy, although brought as a ftrong corroboration of his own opinion, really can prove nothing, unlefs it could be made to prove that terebratio^ was the caufe of, or at leaft accelerated, the patient's death; which it can by no means be made to do. No man, who is at all acquainted with this fubjed, will ever venture to pronounce or promile fuccefs from the ufe of the trephine, even in the moft apparently flight cafes; he knows that honeftly he cannot; it is enough that it has often been fuccefsful where and when, every other means have failed. The true and juft confideration is this; Does the operation of perforating the cranium in fuch cafe add at all to that degree of hjazard which the pa- tientFROlU EXTERNAL VfOLENCE. tient is in before it is performed ? or can he in many inflances do well without it ? If it does add to the patient's hazard, that is cer- tainly a very good reafon for laying it afide, or for ufing it very cautioufly ; but if it does not (which I verily believe), and the only objection made to it is, that it frequently fails- of being fuccefsful, furely it cannot be right to difufe that which has often been not only falutary, but the canfa fine qua ?ion of prefer- vation, merely becaufe it is alfo often unfuc- cefsful, that is, becaufe it is not infallible. I ihould be extremely forry to fay any thing which might miflead my reader, but I cannot help thinking, that dark and obfcure as this part of furgery is, yet there are fome- times appearances and circuraftances, which may be faid pofitively to indicate the oper- ation, among which I reckon the fpontaneous detachment of the pericranium from the fcuU, in confcquence of a heavy blow, at- tended with fymptoms of fl:upefa6tion or lofs of fenle. Whenever the dura mater is feparated from its attachment to the inner" furface of the cranium,240 INjURfES OF THE HEAd cranium, the pericranium covering the Outef part of the fame bone is generally detached alfo. When this feparation is produced by the formation of matter, in confequence of inflammation, the tumefadion of the fcalp, which denotes this effea, appears fome days after the violence has been received, and is always accompanied with a fymptomatic fevers The effufion of a confiderable quantity of ex- travafated blood on the furface of the dura mater, as it abfolutely feparates that mem^ brane from the bone, and cuts off ail commu- nication between that part and the fcalp, fo it does in the fame manner oblige the pericra- nium to quit its attachment to the fcuU, of which I have remarked frequent inftances^ and 1 have alfo moft frequently obferved^ that the blood in fuch cafes has been coagulated^ and very adherent to the membrane. Now if this obfervation fhould be found to be moft frequently true, that is, if a detachment of the dura mater from within the fcull, by means of an extravafation, be found to be mofl frequently accompanied by a detachment of the pericranium on the outfide, have we not thereby an indication both why and where we ought to perforate? The operation g mayFk'bM EXffeRNAL^Violence. 24! ni^ not be fuccefsful, but defperatioii cannot be fubmitted to while there is the rtioft extreme degree of probability of being fer- viceablei A free difcharge by rheans of it may- jiro- d\Tce a cure, of it rtiay prove only a tempo- rary relief, according to the different circum- ftances of different cafes t the difappearance ' or even the alleviation of the moft preffing fymptoms is undoubtedly a favourable dii'cum- ftance, but is not to be depended upon as abfolutely portending a good event; either a bloody or limpid ejitravafation m'ay be formed or forming between the meninges, or upon or vi^ithin the brain, and niay prove as cer- tainly pernicious in future as the more exter- nal efflifion would have done had it not beeri difcharged \ ot the dUra mater may have been fo damaged by th-e violence of the blow as to inflame and fuppurate, and thereby deftfoy the patient. The complaints arifing from extravafation, and froftl fuppuratlbn, are (a^ I have alread)^ at large obferved) very different and diftiiid from each other; the'former may ht relieved, or even totally removed, and the latter not prevented, nor indeed be capable of prevention ; of this every praditioner fhould Vol. L R beINJURIES OF Ti-IE HEAD be aware, left he exped and promife too much. The nearer the extravafated fluid hes to the cranium the better; therefore that which is fituated between the fcuU and dura mater is, caeteris paribus, the moft favourable of any. If the difeafe lies between the dura and pia rnater, mere perforation of the fcuU can do nothing ; and therefore, if the fymptoms are prefling, there is no remedy but divifion of the outer of thefe membranes. The divifion of the dura mater is an operation which I have feveral times feen done by others, and have often done myfelf; I have feen it, and have found it now and then fuccefsful; and from thofe inftances of fuccefs, am fatisfied of the propriety and neceffity of its being fometimes done: but let not the praaitioner, who has not had frequent opportunity of feeing thefe kinds of things, prefume, from the light manner in which this neceffary operation has been fpoken of by a few modern writers, that it is a thing of little confequence; for it moft certainly is not. Wounds of the membranes 'of the brain, by whatever body infliaed, or in whatever manner made, have always been deemed, and (which is more to the purpole) haveFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 24.^ have always been found, to have been ha- zardous. There is indeed fome difference between a wound made by a clean lancet or knife, and one made by bone, bullet, or any thing- which bruifes or tears; but this relates only to the manner i the part wounded is the fiime in all; arid whether the dura mater be divided by a lancet, or by a fragment of bone, or any other body, it is equally divided, and the air is let in in the fame manner on the pia mater,'or brain,- which become thereby fub- jeft to all the ills ^ which fuch wound, or fuch expofition, are^capable of caufing. Authors indeed, do every now and then tell us ftrange ftories, and give us ftrange accounts of incifions made into the meninges and brain in fearch of foreign bodies, of extravafated fluids, &c.: but let the young praditioner read thefe relations with fome referve of faith, and recollea: that the excellent advice given by a very able man, ** Homines non admira- " tione afficere, fed eis utiliora docere," is not always attended to by writers. Caution and fear are different things; where any good can be done, it ought to be attempted by every pradicable and jufHfiable means ; but where no good is reafonably to be expeded, there is no authority fordoing any thing. The R 2 - divifion344l il^jtTRIES OF THE HEAD 2iv{{ion of the dura mater I have feen to be neceffary, and I have feen it to be fuccefsful; but all wounds of it are far from being matters of indifference. Every chance of Hfe is to be embraced, and a good furgeon will never he- ■ fitate to execute whatever appears feafible, or even poffibly beneficial; but at the fame time he will not ad without fome fuch kind of war- ranty =as-fhall prove that his patient's benefit was his one objea, and will take care that neither his prognoilic nor his condud fhall cxpofe him juftly to the cenfure of being either ignorant, unfeeling, or fool-hardy. ' Upon the removal of a piece of bone by means of the trephine, if the operation has been performed over the part where the dif- eafe is fituated, and the extravafation be of the fluid kind, and between the cranium and dura mater, fuch fluid, whether it be blood, water, or both, is immediately feen, and is partly difcharged by fuch opening; if, on the- ■ other hand, the extravafation be of blood in "a coagulated or grumous ftate, it is either loofe, or in fome degree adherent to the dura^ mater ; if the former of thefe be the cafe, it is either totally or partially difcharged at the time of or foon after the operation, accordingFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 245 t6 tli^ quantity or extent of -the mifchief; if the latter, the perforation difcovers, but docs not immediately difcharge it. In both in- ftances, the condua: of the furgeon, with regard to repetition of the operation, muft be determined by the particular circumftances of each individual cafe; a large extravafation muft neccflarily require a more free removal of bone than a fmall one; not only on ac- count of freedom of difcharge, but on account of larger detachment of dura mater; and a grumous or coagulated extravafation requires a ftill more free ufe of the inftrument, not only becaufe the blood in fuch ftate is dif- charged with difficulty, but becaufe the whole furface of the dura mater fo covered is always put under the neceffity of fuppurating, which fuppuration has but one chance of a happy event, and that derivable from the free ufe of the perforator. When the extravafation is not between the cranium and dura mater, but either between the meninges, or in the ventricles of the brain, the appearances are not only different from the preceding ftate of the cafe, but fronj each other, R 3 When246 INJURIES OF THE HEAD When the extravafated fluid lies between the fcull and dura mater, as foon as that ex- travaiation is difcharged, or the grumous blood ,has .been wiped off, the dura mater appears flaccid, eafily yields to or does not refift the imprcffion of a finger, and (the difcharge being made) enjoys that kind of motion, that elevation and depreffion, which our fathers fuppofed it to have naturally and always, but whiclj is only the confequence of the circular lion through the brain, and the artificial rcr moval of the piece of bone. But when th? extravafation is fituated between the meninges, or on the furface of the brain, the appearance is not the f^me. In this cafe, there is no difcharge upon removing the bone ; and the dura mater, inftead of being flaccid and readily obeying the motion of the bipod, appears full and turgid, has little or no motion, and prelT- ing hard againft the edges of the perforation, rife into a kind of fpheroidal form in the hole of the perforated bone. If the extravafation ^e of the limpid kind, the membrane retains ■its natural colour; but if it be either purely fluid blood, or blood coagulated, and the fub- jea young, the colour of the menabrane is fo alteredFROM EXtERNAL VIOLENCE. 247 altered by what lies under it, that the nature of the cafe is always determinable from this circumftance. Be the extravafated fluid what it may, it has no natural outlet; abforption was the only chance the patient had whereby to get rid of it without an operation, and that we muffc now fuppofe to have failed; an artificial open- ing therefore muft be made, by the divifioii of the dura mater, and perhaps of the pia alfo. This operation, under the circumftances and appearances already mentioned, is abfolutely neceflary and has been fuccefsful; it is per- formed to give difcharge to what cannot be got rid of by any other means, and confifts in a divifioji of the membrane or membranes, made in a crucial form with a point of a lancet. The operation in itfelf is extremely fimple and eafy, but the patient is thereby put into the ftate of one whofe meninges have beeii w-ounded, with only this difference, that the wound made for this purpofe is fmooth and fimple, and inflided with the leaft pof- lible violence; whereas an accidental wound of the fame parts may be lacerated, contufed, and attended with circumftances which muft R 4 aggravate5548 INJURIES OF THE HEAD aggravate the evil, and may induce worfe conlequences, I—a— — Of commotion or concuffion of the folid parts of the brain, we have only a negative kind of proof, and therefore are ftill more in. the dark, than we are with regard to extra^ vafation, Very alarming fymptoms, followed fome- times by the moft fatal confequences, are found to attend great violences offered to the head; and upon the ftridleft examination both c^f the living and the dead, neither fifliire, frafture, nor extravafation of any kind can be difcovered, The fame fymptoms, and the fame event, are met with when the head has received no injury at ajl ab externo, but has only been violently fhaken; nay, when only the body or general frame has feemed to have fuftained the whole violence, It, is a coni^ mpnly received opinion, that a concuffion of the brain is always in proportion to the refift-' ance xyhich the craniuni makes; that if the latter fu^ains a confiderable degree of fracture, th^ former ig but (lightly injured, and thatFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 249 the concuffion is greateft when the fcuU is kaft hurt. This may fometimes be the cafe; violent and even fatal commotions of the braia happen when no injury has been done to the fcull, and very large and terrible fradures are fometimes unattended with any fymptoms of concuflion; -all this is fometimes true, but the pofition can by no means be admitted as a general principle, whereon to form our judgment, or whereby to regulate our con- dud, experience frequently contradidling it. The fymptoms attending a concuffion arc generally in proportion to the degree of vio- lence which the brain itfelf has fuftained, and which indeed is cognizable only by the fymp- toms. If the concuffion be very great, all fenfe and power of motion are immediately aboli{hed, and death follows foon: but be- tween this deo-ree and that flight confufion o o (or ftunning, as it is called) which attends moft violences done to the head, there are many ftages. Sometimes a concuffion pro- duces the fame kind of oppreffive fymptoms as an extravafation, and the patient is either almoft or totally bereft of fenfe : at other fimes no fuch fymptoms attend, but the pa- rient gets no fleep at all,- has a wild look, ari eye250 INJURIES OF THE HEAD eye much like to that of a perfon who has long watched through apprehenfiori and an- xiety ^ talks much and very inconfiftently, has a hard labouring pulfe, fome fmall degree of fever, and fometimes an inchnation to vo- mit ; if not retained, the patient will get out of bed, and a6t with a kind of frantic abfur- dity, and appears in general much hurt by a strong light, A debility of underftanding, an idiot look, a failure of memory, a paralytic affedion of fome one part or limb, the lofs of fenfe, fpafm, refolution or rigidity of fome one part or mufcle, are often the confequence of it. Thefe complaints are fometimes cured, "but fome of them do fometimes remain through the reft of life. To diftinguifh between an extravafation and a commotion hy the fymptoms only is frequently a very difficult matter, fometimes an impoffible one. The fimilarity of the effeas in fome cafes, and the very fmall fpace of time which may intervene between the going off of the one and acceffion of the other, render this a very nice exercife of the judg- ment. The firft ftunning or deprivation of fenfe, whether-total or partial, m^y be from either, and no man can tell from which; butFROM EJCTERN4L VIOLENCE. 251 but when thefe firft fymptoms have been re- moved, or have fpontaneoufly difappeared ; if fueh patient is again oppreffed with drowfi- iiefs, or ftupidity, or total or partial lofs of fenfe, it then becomes moft probable that the firft complaints were from commotion, an4 that the latter are from extravafation; and the greater the diftance of time between the two, the greater is the probabihty not 6nly that ^n extravafation is the caufe, but that the extravafation is of the limpid kindy made gr^datim, and within the brain. Whoever f^rioufly refleds on the nature of thefe two caufes of evil within the cranium, and confiders them as liable to frequent com- bination in the fame fubjed, and at the fame time conhders, that in many inftances no degree of information can be obtained from the only perfon capable of giving it, (the patient,) will immediately be fenfible, how very difficult a part a pra£litioner has to a6t in many of thefe cafes, and how very unjuft it muft be to call that ignorance, which is only a juft diffidence arifmg from the obfcu- rity of the fubjed, and the impoffibility of .attaining materials to form a clear judgment* When there is no reafon to apprehend any other r\ 252 INJURIES OF THE HEAD Other injury, and commotion feems to be the Ible difeafe, plentiful evacyation by phlebo- tomy and lenient cathartics, a dark room, the mofl: perfe<5t quietude, and a very low regi- meUi the only means in our power; and are fometimes fuccefsful. Having in the preceding (heets frequently fpoken of the trephine, I have only to add, that if fuch operation be attended with fuc- cefs, that is, if an extravafated fluid be thereby difcharged, a depreffed bone elevated, matter which had been formed between the fcuU and dura mater let out, or the inflam- matory tenfion of the membrane prevented, in fuch manner as to refcue the patient from the danger he v^^as in from fuch accident; in fuch cafes, I fay, that the bare dura mater readily obeys the motion of the blood through the brain, and is freely elevated and deprelT- ed ; by degrees it lofes its bright fllver hue and becomes purulent and floughy, and then cafting off this flough, is covered by a gra- nulation of new flefh, of firm confiftence' and florid red colour; moderate quantity of good matter is difcharged daily, and the new incarnation rifes gradually through the per- foration, until it gets above the edges of it, I wheaTItOM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 2^^ vi'hen jomaiag with th'at which either has fpruiig.fi-om the furface of the bare cranium, or which has thrdwn. off from thence a fmall exfoliati^i, thej together make a firm cica- trix. During all this time the patient is ge- nerally freie from fever ioitwpain, gets good fleep, has a natural appetite, and feems as near to being in health as' his circumftances can permit. ' ' On the other hand^ if the mifchief be fuch 'that all- liieajis prove inefFe£lu^l,..tbe appear- ances are very different. The dura mater, inftead of cafting off a thin Hough and incarn- ing kindly, becomes hard, tenfe, and.foul; in a few days it generally thrufis up an ill- natured^ fungus, which preffing hard againfl the edges of the perforation, prevents the dis- charge from, within ; the bare- bone .becomes blackifh or deeply yellow, and the edgcs-of" the fore in the fcalp are painful, loofe, fi'abby, aind have no conne6lion with the bone on which they lie;- the .difcharge is a thin link- ing gleet, and large in'qci^intity; the patient is hot, thirfty and fleeplefs ; the fongue is black, the pulfe hard and'quick ; fometimes a delirium, and fbinetimes frequent fpafms dif- order and fhake his whole frame ; his counfe- nance2'54- INJURIES OF THE HE AO nance is fluflied and has a yellow tint, hh eyes lofe all their natural brightriefs and feem funk in their orbits, and his rigors, which were at firft - flight and few, become more frequent and more fevere-as his diflblution approaches. A flight degree of thefe fymp- toms is fometimes got the better of by proper care and treatment; but if they are far ad- vanced, or run very high, we may ufe the words of a very excellent writer on this fub- je(Sl, I mean Berengarius Carpenfis'^: Hie • ' The lentiments of a vei-y ancient writer on this matter are fovery jiift and appofite, that I hope the reader will excufe the length of the quotation. . ** Qui fanefcere poffunt, vel perituri funt, ex his conjicere ** eft; plurimum quidem ex 3^fo vuhiere, deindo Sc ex rehquo ** corpore. " Salubrlter fe habentlnm notse funt, ulcus non dolens, Cere- brique membrana naturalem colorem, ac motum fervans, & " ulcus poft fuppurationem imminui. Pus album, aquale, modice cralTum, non male olens. Ulcus quod initio album •* apparuit, poft aliquod tempus rubefcere, carncm milio fimi- " lem producere, fquamtilafque fuis temporibus emittere; fine " perturbatione fomnum capere; fme febre efl^ ; cibum appe- *' tere; aflumpta digerere ; cquas excretiones fieri; glandu- las, qu2 primls diebus apparuerant, aut eryfipelas cito dif- " folvi. *' Eos qui periclltantur cognofcere licet turn afpeftu, turn ex *f iis quje vulneri csteroque corpori accidunt, & us quas ex- cernuntur. Color igitur plerumque languidus & permanens, «* periculofusj II PROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 255 cafus eft de his, e quibus non evadunt aliquiy niji nutu de'u CA S E xxxiir. A YOUNG fellow about twenty-four years old was thrown by the fwing of a crane at the water-lide from a window two ftories high, and pitched his head on a fugar hogf- head. He was taken up fenfeiefs, and brought in that ftate to St. Bartholomew's hofpital. He was immediately let blood freely, and his head being firft clean fhaved was-very • perkulofus, oculique concavl & extantes, &c. Ulcus do- lere, magis interdlu, retorrldum fieri, atque omni ple- ** rumque tumore carere, vel faniem manare tenuem ac male *' olentem; orafque feftse carnis admodum rubras & flaccidas " efle, atque ubi magis reflexse fint, tunc abfcedere cutem ab *' olTe moleflum eft, membranamque vulneratam immobilem " effe, exalbidam vel lividam apparere, vel nigram, vei *' plurimum inflammatum aut procidentem, purgatamque/ ** iterum fponte non ob aliqua re externa fordefcere." Oribasius De Signisf " Spent vero certam faciunt, membrana mobilis ac fui colo- •* ns, caro increfcens rubicunda, facilis motus maxillje, atque *' cervicis. , *' Mala figna funt membrana immobilis, nigra vel livida, " vel aliter coloris corrupti, dementia, acris vomitus, ner- " vorum diftenfio vel refoliuio—Caro livida, maxillarunl- " atque cervicis rigor." Cslsus.:. ! carefully35<^ INJURIES OF THE I^EAti carefully examined, but no external mark of violence was found* Next morning he was bled again J and the fame operation was re* peated in the evening of that day, and twice in the courfe of the third. On the fourth day both the temporal arteries were opened, and bled freely. On the fifth day he died, his fymptdm'S' not having remitted in the foialleft degree. The cranium was perfe£liy uninjured. The dura mater every where ad* herent, and no fluid of any kind between it and the fculL Between the dura and pia mater was a confideraibk quantity of fluid blood, and principally toward the lower part of the brain. CASE XXXIV. A HACKNEY coachman was thrown from his box in Holborn, and fell on his head, as it was thought. He became immediately in- fenlible, and was- brought fo to the hofpitaU No mark of violence was to be found on any part of his head, and therefore, althotigh his fyrtiptoms were fuch as rendered an extrava- fation mofl: probablej yet there was no autho- rity for fetting on the inftrument on any par- ticularFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 257 ticnlar part. Ever^ fhing was done for 'him both by the phyfician and myfelf, from which any advantage might reafonably be ex- pefted ; but on the third day he expired, hav- ing never fhewed any figns of fenfe. All the fpace between the frontal bone and the dura mater was covered with o-rumous o blood, firmly adherent to the latter. CASE. XXXV. A bricklayer's labourer fell from a high fcafiFold, broke one aftti' and one thigh, and was brought to the hofpital ■ about two hours afterward in a ftate of ftupidity. When his arm and thigh were put to rights, his head was examined, but no mark of mifchief dif- covered. He' was'bled freely, and ftools pro- cured-on each day for four, but he continued in the fame ftate. On the fifth a fmall tumor arofe on' the right fide of his head. The fcalp was removed, and the bone being found bare, it was immediately perforated. The perfor- ation made way for a large difcharge of blood which had been contained between the. dura tnatef'and fcull. ' On the firft ind fe- cond day from this operation he remained'th6 Vol. I. S fame;25^ INJURIES OF THE HEAD fame; blood was drawn from fomc part of him on each, and the difcharge continued large and free through the opening made in the bone. On the third day from the appli- cation of the trephine, he became toward evening fomewhat fenfible. On the fourth, having taken a laxative medicine, he had a fmart purging, which lafted fome hours. On the lixth he was quite calm and fenfible, but being reduced to a very low ftate by his free and frequent evacuations, it was thought right to give him the cortex. This agreed well with him, and from this time he had no other difficulty or trouble. CASE XXXVI. A BOY about ten years old, climbing up a ladder which was fet too perpendicularly, fell from an height of more than twenty feet; he lay fome time before he was found, and then was carried home perfedtly void of fenfe. In about three hours after the accident I faw him. He lay quite ftupid and fenfelefs, now and then vomited, had a hard, full, labour- ing pulfe, and an obftruded refpiration. No mark of violence appeared on his head. He wasFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 259 was bled freely, and had a ftimulating glyfter, which procured a free difcharge. During three days he was let blood twice a day ; on the fourth, a fmall degree of tumefadion ap- peared on the right fide of his head near to the fagitt^ future; it was not very manifeft, neither did it appear to contain any confider- able quantity of fluid, but the very defperate circumftances the child was in, induced me to open it, and, finding the fcull bare, to per- forate. The dura mater was covered with blo(5d, which difcharged freely both at the time of the operation, and during all the next day. On the third day from, the operation, he was ftill infenlible. A fecond perforation was made juft below the firft, and a third on the other fide of the future. Blood was dif- charged freely from all three. He was drefT- ed lightly, and his pulfe being flill flrong, more blood was drawn from one of the jugu- lars. The next day he was rather better, but far from fenfible. The day following that, he recovered his underftanding, and could make figns for what he wanted. It was near a week more before he got his fpeech, but in the end he got perfe£lly well. S 2 CASE ■A36o INJURIES dF THE HEAD CASE XXXVII. ■ A BOY between three and four years old, the foil of a merchant in my neighbourhood, was at-play with his brother on a bed, and fell from thence on a foft bedfide carpet. He pitched on his head, and complained imme- diately of being fick and giddy, but having vomited, was foon after fo well that no far- ther notice was taken of his' fail. On the fourth day from this, his licknefs and giddi- nefs returned. Dr. Lee was fent for, who not regarding' th'e fall as -having any lhare in his complaint, gave him an emetic, and or- dered him fome of thofe medicines which are called nervous. For the fpace of five days from this time, he continued to be now and then lick and giddy, and was- very unwilling to ftir or be ftirred. On the eleventh he complained that he could not fee, and that evenias had a fort of fit. On the thirteenth his rieht arm became ufelefs. On the fif- teenth he could not fland. From this even- ing he became ftupid; and on the eighteenth expired. Between the dura and pia mater was a con- liderableFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 261 fiderable quantity of bloody ferum ^bout the bafis of the brain. CASE XXXVIII. A WOMAN came to my houfe, complaining that her hufband had kicked her down flairs, and had broke her fcuU. On the back part of her head was a fmall wound, but the peri-^ cranium was not divided, nor was there any reafon to fuppofe the bone to be hurt. For twelve days fhe remained without any general complaint; • but on the thirteenth fhe began to be giddy and dim-fighted. I took her into the hofpital, where fhe was taken all poffible care of; but fhe became firft paralytic, and then comatofe, and fo died. The ventricles of the brain were full, of extravafated ferum, and near the origin of the medulla oblongata was a large lump of firmly coagulated blood. CASE XXXIX. A carpenter's labourer in Blackfriars fell from a fcaffold of a confiderable heighth, and in his way down ftruck a piece of timber, S 3 which262 INJURIES OF THE HEAD which following him, hit him on the head. The man fell on his breech. He was brought to the hofpital fenfelefs. The mark on his head made by the timber was fcarcely vilible, and did not imply any mifchief underneath. He was freely let blood, and his body emp- tied by a glyiler adminiftered that day. The next day more blood was drawn from one jugular; and the third the fame operation re- peated. On the fourth he fpake, and on the fifth was fo fenfible as to give an account of the place from whence he fell. On the fixth, feventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, and eleventh, he was free from complaint, except on the two laft he was too much inclined to dofe. On the twelfth he found fome difficulty in pronunciation, and faid, that it was with great difficulty that he could keep himfelf awake. As his pulfe would very well bear it, more blood was drawn away by opening the temporal artery, and a bliftex was appUed to his neck. On the fifteenth he could hardly fpeak at all, and was never awake unlefs dif- turbed for that purpofe. On the eighteenth he loft the ufe of his left fide, and on the twentieth died. About the lower part of the brain was foun^FROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 263 found a fmall quantity of bloody ferum, and all the ventricles were filled with a clear lymph. CASE XL. A BOY about fifteen was thrown over the head of a horfe, who fell down with him in Smithfield. There was on the fide of his head a large wound with a bare parietal bone 5 and although there was no appearance of frac- ture, yet the violence having been great, and the boy being perfedly ftupid, I immediately perforated the bare bone, fulpeding an ex- tra vafation on the dura mater. That mem- brane was perfectly fair and adherent, nor was there any appearance of extravafation either upon or under it. The next day he was flill infenfible. I examined the membrane again very carefully, in order to fee whether there was any authority for dividing it, but could find none. Blood was drawn from dif- ferent parts in large quantity, but to no pur- pofe; he lived three days as it were in a deep fleep, and then died. There was no injury <ione to the fcull; no extravafation of either blood or ferum, either upon or between the membranes, nor any unnatural appearances in S 4 the264 INJURIES OF THE HEAD the cavities of the brain: but upon the plexus choroides was a lump of coagulated blood, near a? big as half a fmall chefnut. In the courfe of thefe papers I have more than once faid, that although the fymptoms arifing from preflure made on the brain and nerves, or on the meninges, were uniform and clear, and perfedly diftinft from thofe caufed by inflammation, yet that they very feldom indicate what kind of body fuch pref- fure was made^by; whether blood, water, or bone; and confequently, that though the diforders proceeding from preflure were per- feftly diftinguifhable from thofe caufed by inflammation, yet they were not at all or very feldom fo with regard to each other. Some of the immediately preceding cafes are proofs with regard to blood and lymph, and what follow will I think in fome degree prove that the fymptoms are the fame when they are caufed by bone, or by blood and bone toge- ther, * CASEFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 265 CASE XLI. I A CHILD about nine years old received a blow from a cricket-bat on the upper part of his forehead, which brought him to the ground, and deprived him of fenfe. I found him with a conliderable tumor on his forehead, and conlidering the ftate he was in, would have removed immediately a part of the fcalp; but a dabbler in furgery, who was a relation, undertook to cure him by an application. On the third day I was fent for again, and found him nearly in the fame ftate as I left him. I divided the fcalp, and found a frafture with depreffion. By means of the trephine and elevator the deprefled part was raifed, and the dura mater being found in a very good ftate, and no apparent extravafation in the cafe, nothing more was done at that time. Proper medicines were ordered to procure ftools. The next day his fymptoms were the fame, except that his pulfe was lefs la- bouring, and he had not the apopleftic flertor, which he had till then. 1 examined the bone, which lay perfeftly fmooth, nor was the dura mater at all elevated into the perforation. 6 31ood200 INJURIES OF THE HEAD Blood was freely drav/n from the temporal arteries, and a ftimulating glyfter admini- flered. On the fifth day no alteration. I ap- plied a trephine in the middle of that part of the bone which had been depreffed and ele- vated. The dura mater was thinly covered with grumous blood, which being gently wiped away, more of the fame appeared; for two or three days this difcharge continued in fmall quantity; the boy gradually recovered his fenfes, and in due time got well. CASE XLII. A YOUNG woman was thrown out from a country waggon, upon a broad flat pavement, and faid to have pitched upon her head. She was inftantly deprived of fenfe, and brought to the hofpital in that ftate. Her head was immediately fhaved and examined, but found to be fo abfolutely free from all mark of vio- lence, that I was in doubt of the truth of the account given of her. She was freely let blood, and fome medicines directed to be got down, in order to empty her. The next day fhe was in the fame ftate. More blood was drawn off, and her cathartic repeated. The third day, Ihe being exactly the fame, both theFROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 267 the temporal arteries were opened. On the fourth, there being no alteration, I deter- mined to apply a trephine on that part of her head, on which fhe was faid to have fallen, and which when prefl'ed hard feemed to pro- duce fuch motion in, her .as if it gave fome pain. In a cafe of lefs neceffity this would hardly have been an authority, but here fomething was to be attempted. I removed a large piece of fcalp, and found the pericranium, though not detached abfolutely, yef not naturally or firmly adherent. I applied the trephine, and when I had worked a few feconds, I took out the inftrument to clean it, but was much furprifed, to find in it a piece of the upper table of the fcuU. I put in my finger to feel what was underneath, and found that it touched the remaining table, which receded from the finger, and returned again upon re- moving it; and when I preffed the faid loofe piece hard, the girl's whole frame was fpaf- piodically agitated. What was to be done ? It appeared to me, that if all her fymptoms were not caufed by the preiTure of the loofe piece, yet they were certainly aggravated by it, that it mufl therefore be taken away at all events.268 INJURIES OF THE HEAD events, and that it was much too large to be extracted at the prefent opening: befide which, as it ran upward toward the finus, I fhould not have chofen to run the rifk of an hsemorrhage from thence while the finus was covered with bone. I perforated all round the prefent opening with a fmall trephine, in fuch manner, that each perforation fo bor- dered on the other as that the whole fhould make one opening. For near one half the circle the outer table only came away in the inftrument, leaving the inner loofe and covered with blood, but in all the lower part the trephine went through both tables, and left the dura mater covered with grumous blood alfo. When the circle was finifhed, the loofe portion was eafily taken away; its upper part made a part of the fa- gittal future, but no blood followed its Repar- ation. The dura mater under the whole was thinly covered with grumous blood. Next day fhe retained her urine, and opened her eyes. In two more fhe recovered her fpeech, and became as rational as I fuppofe fhe ever had been ; and would in all probability have done well, as far as regarded the evils pro- duced by mere preffure ; but after fome days matter /FROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. 269 matter formed between the detached dura mater and the fcull, and the fymptomatic fever iifiially accompanying fuch mifchief came on with fuch rapidity, that all the efforts of art were vain. CASE XLIII. A PORTER at work at the water fide, was knocked down by a blow from an iron hook, at the end of the tackle belonging to a crane. He wag fenfelefs for near half an hour, but after that was fo well as to walk home. The next morning he loft his fight, and by the evening his fpeech and faculty of walking. In this ftate he was brought to the hofpital. He was largely let blood, and thoroughly emp- tied ; and I intended, if thefe evacuations did not materially ferve him, to have examined the ftate of that part of the bone whereon the blow was received; but that night he died. Upon examining his head, a piece of the inner table of the right os parietale, of about an inch and half in length, and liot quite fo broad, was found detached from the outer table, having a quantity of blood both be- tween them and on the furface of the dura mater. Thefe270 INJURIES OF THE HEAD, &C. Thefe are the only inftances which I have met with of fradure of the internal table alone; though I make no doubt, that fome of thofe who have been faid and thought to have been defli oyed by concuffion, have funk under this kind of mifchief. OBSERVATIONSOBSERVATIO N s ON THAT DISO RDER ftp r H X CORNER OF THE EYE, COMM^ONLY CALLED FISTULA LACHRYMALIS.THE PREFACE. B y frequently converfing with fome of that part of the profeflion who come to London to attend the hofpitals, and to improve themfelves in the art of furgery, it has appeared to me that the Fistula Lachrymalis, though a very common difeafe, is one with which many of them are very little acquainted, either with regard to its oaufe, feat, or method of cure. Some are totally ignorant of every thing relating to it: others who have an imperfeil idea of its na- ture and feat, are yet much at a lofs how to vary the me- thod of treating it according to its different ftates and cir- cumftances; upon which diftin£lion the probability of a cure does often in great meafure depend j for if thofe means which are only proper in one flate of the difeafe be ufed in another, the patient will be fetigued to no purpofe, and the furgeon by being frequently difappointed will be inclined to thinlc thofe cafes incurable, which have only failed through his own mifmanagement. ^ Vol. I. T There> 1V 174 P R E F A C E. There is hardly any chirurgical diforder which requfres a more clofe regard to all its appearances and variations than this docs ; arrd whoever experts to condadl it fuccelT- fully, muft attend to it conftantly. This is, perhaps, the great reafon why it is fo little "underftood; the objeft is too minute, and the procefs often too long, to engage the attention; befides which, it hardly comes under the name of an operation, the great arid almoft only objedl which they who come hither from the diftant countries have in view : the opera,tive part of furgery is what they have feen the Jeaft ofi and ;therefore they are the mOise defirous of becoming ac^juainted with it: this defire is a very laudable one, and oMght certainly to be encouraged, but ftill the t)perative part of furgery k far from being the whole of it; and I cannot help thinking, tlaat by attending a little more to what is called common or .practical furgery,' «ur art might ftill be confiderably improved, pradlitioners rendered more expert, and mankind much benefited. The merely curing difcafes is not all,; that was done (fooner or later.) while furgery and anatomy were in their moft in\perfe6: ftate, and while every branch of medicine- laboured under many inconveniences which are now ha|J« pily removed; but the different methods in which chirur- gical diforders are treated, or their cores attempted, witt make fo Gonfiderable a difference, in the coTjfineme<nt an4' fufferings of the patient, as to be 'very well worth attejad- ing to. ItPREFACE. 27s It may poiHbly be thought foreign to my prefent piir- |)ofe, but I cannot omit this opportunity of adding a few words on a fubje6t which appears to me highly deferving of fome notice^ as its ioflyence may be very extenftve and very prejudicial; it is the falfe idea which the by-ftandei:s iat an operation generally have olF chirurgic dexterity; to which word they annex rlo other idea than that of quick- ^ nefs. This has produced a rtioft abilird Cuftom of lilea- furing the motion of a furgebn's hand, as jockeys do that of the feet of a horfej viz. by a flop-watch j a pradlice which, though it may perhaps hav^ been encouraged by operators themfelves, muft have been produdlive of moft mifchievous confequences. Tute et celefiter are both very proper charafteriftics of a good chirurgic operation; but iuie ftandsi as it fliould do^ in the firft place; as the patient who fuffers the fmalleft injury from the hurry of his operar tor, has no recompence from the reputation which the latter obtains from the by-ftanders. In moft of the capital operations unforefeen circumftances will fome- times occur, aaid muft be attended to; and he who. Without giving unnecelTary pain from delay, finiflies what he has to do in the moft perfea manner, and the moft likely to conduce to his patient's fafety, is the beft operator. I have endeavoured to make the following traa as plain and as intelligible as I can; and if it ftould appear prolijj to thofe who are already acquainted with the fubje^, f ^ a muft17^ PREFACE. muft beg leave to obferve, that it was not written for their information; but if any of thofe who were unacquainted with it before fhould from hence gain any iifeful know- ledge, my end will be anfwered, and I fhall be very much , pleafed. O I?T 3 ward Q F T H E FISTULA LACHRYMALIS: S E C T. I. T.HE ancient writers were in gener4 fo little acquainted with the anatomical ftruc- ture of the parts concerned in this difeafe,' that both its caufe, and feat, have been very, erroneoufly reprefented by moll of them ; other diforders, very different both from this and from each other, have been confounded under the fame general appellation, and!the means made ufe of toward obtaining a cure,- being adapted to fuch mifconceptions, were rough, painful, and moft commonly inef- fectual. The fluid which perpetually moiftens the eye, was fuppofed to be fecreted by that fmall eminence in the inner angle, now called the caruncule, and to flow from thence up-27^ OBSERVATIONS Oif THE ward through the punda lachrymalia'. The caruiicule was by many thought to be the feat of the difeafe in queftion, which was faid to be produced, either-by a defluxion from the brain ^ on this part, or by an abfcefs formed within the body of it; or by' a lodgment of the tears, becorne acrid aad corrpfive in con- » Fallopius, who has very accurately defcribed the punfta lachrymalia, facculus, and du'£l, '^s well as the difeafe^ has yet fallen ^nto this common error. " Ad oculos ipfos ex faucibus •* egredien? venio,_ in quibus prinium psterrpifere anatomici 4' dub forarrilria ^iirva ih ailguto Hiteril^ pofita, quarum, unum "■jfeltin fialpebfa fupSriori, alteruiti in inferiori,: in vivelitibuj *' adhuc hpiiliriibus,' quis infpicere ypluerit appare^tia, qujp *' foramina habent meatus qui fub caruncula encanthidos vel iepicaniihidos didia uniuhtur In querfdaih communem finum in narlum caVitatferfi defilifehteb ^fir eatialem propHli'm in offe *' fquamorp, quod intfernum angulum occupat infcul|itum. c '/ Per hos meatus major lachrymarum pars ut egp in fletibus ** jnulierum obfervavi, ad oculos emanat." FALi,opiys. '^'Noli 'dnifrt OS folummodo cariofurii, vei'ufn' etiarti glaridull *' ilk erofa erat, ut quotiefcUhque puer ploraret, lachryiris per ** ipfajn fiftulam copiose extillareht." Hiloaij us, ,** " Fiftula lachrymalis fit ex humorum decurfu, qui currunt f* ad lachrymalis angulum juxta nafum, nec propter eorum ** multitudinem, & groflitatem poffunt exire, &c. hi autem ** iiiorantes ibi diutiiis corrumpuntur, & locuii;i ulcerant." Lanfranc. " ^gylops eft tumor abceflbrius inter majorem angulum, & ff nares provehieiis.'^ Paulus, fequenceFISTf^A LACHRYMAI.13. fequeiice of fuch ftagnatioti'; while others looked upon it as a kind of encyfted tumor. The fvvelling in the inner corner of the eye, the frequently-attendant ophthalmy, the in-, voluntary flux of ferum down the cheek, the excoriation of the eye-lid, and the difcor loured difcharge upon preiTure, ftrengthened their opinions, and confirmed their prejui- dices. They who fuppofed it to be caufed origi- nally by a defluxion of the inflammatory kind, tending to produce an abfcefs, had re- courfe at firft to thofe general methods and means which were thought moil likely to prevent fuch confequence : thefe njot aniwer- ing, they proceeded to open the fuppofed = " At the great corner of the eye there is a glandule macje '* for receiving and containing the moifture which ferves for *' lubricating the eye; this glandule fometimes, by a fanguine ** or pituitous deflaxion falling violently fron) the brain, fwells " and impoftuiaates and ulcerates," &c. Aijs. Parpy, " H^c caruncula ab acrium hwmorum afHuxu turget, non- " nunquam intumefcit, & abfcedit ulcera{:urque, ulpeie non •* raro in fjftulafn abeunte, adeo ut fubjedlum os corrumpatur." Per pufillum utriufque palpebra; foramen lachrymae natUy *' raliter eftluunt," Fae. ab Aqjiapendpnte. '* Lachryma; veniunt per lachrymalia a foramine quod^ni ** parvo> & quafx infenfibili in fine pilorui^i." Guido. T 4 abfcefs,28o OBSERVATIONS ON^THfe abfcefs, and to endeavour the digeflion of it: on the other hand, they who fuppofed it to be an encyfled tumor attempted the eradica- tion of it either by knife, cauftic, or cautery; and all of them taking it for granted, when the difcharge was apparently purulent, or much difcoloured, that the bone was rotten, advife the ufe of efcharotic applications, or the hot iron, to deftroy the callofity, and to dry and exfoliate the caries; and thefe me- thods failing, as in the nature of things they very frequently muft, they pronounced the "difeafe to be incurable. . A' more minute and careful examination into the anatomy of the parts has given us a more true idea of the diforder, and furnifhed us with a more rational, as well as a more fuccefsful method of treating it. We now know that -the caruncule is not the organ which fecretes the tears, but that this office is perforrned by a gland, lituated near the outer corner of the eye ; that the lachrymal fluid is in- its nature perfedly innoxious ; that an obftruiftion in the nafal dud is moft fre- quently the primary arid original caufe of the complaint; and that; its feat is in the facculus lachrymfalis. ' 6 UponFISTULA LACHRYMAL IS. 28 X Upon thefe principles the modern pra£li-. tioners have, with great induftry and inge- nuity, endeavoured to find out fome means, whereby this obftrudlion may be rernoved, and the parts reftored to their natural and healthy ftate, without fuch pain, deftru6tion, and deformity, as the antient methods occa- fioned; or, thefe failing, to eftablifli a new artificial paffage, which may in fome meafurc fupply the place of the natural one. All thefe means have the merit of beihs: founded on the natural ftrudure of the parts concerned. When the, more eafy, and mild ones fucGee^, ■■ the patient gains a confiderablc advantage ; and when they do not, little time is loft, nor is any more efficacious method Tendered thereby lefs pradicable : in this, as in every other, part of furgery, the more fim^ pie means ought to be firft tried; pain fhould be avoided as much as poffible, except when abfolutely neceffary, and then it muft be fub- mitted to. SECT. II. That the motions of the €ye-lids may be performed with the utmoft eafe, that the tunica?82 OBSERVATIONS ON THE y tunica cornea nriay be kept conftantly clean, bright, and fit for the tranlmiffion of the rays of light, and that duft, and other hurtful par- ticles, may be immediately walhed away, the furface of the eye is continually moiften^d by a fine limpid fluid. This fluid is derived principally from a Jarge gland, fituated under the upper edge of the orbit, near the outer cor<ler of the eye, which gland is of the conglomerate kind, and lies in a fmall depreffion of the os frontis; its excretory duds, or thofe by which it dif- charges the fecreted fluid, piercing the tunica conjunctiva, juft above the cartilaginous bor- ders of the upper eye-lids. While the caruncule was thought to be the^ fecretory organ of the tears, this gland bore the title of glandula innominata; but now that its ufe and office are known, it is called glandula lachrymalis. By irritation from any iharp or poignant particles, a large quantity of this fluid is im- mediately fecreted, and by the motion of the eye-lids is as immediately derived over the furface of the eye, by which means, fuch par^ tides are waflied and wiped off. Sometimes alfo the pafiions of the mind produce an im- mediate■PISTI/LA LACHRVMALls. 283 mediate increafe of this lymph, which is then ftn&\y and properly called tears; a conr ftant fecretioil of too large a quantity caufes a difeafe, called epiphora; and a deficiency of it makes the motions of the lid difficult an4 painful. Although the fluid fecreted by the lachryr mal gland is confiderable in quantity, yet when it is not fuddenly produced by irrita- tion from without, or paffion within, it is fo conftantly and gradually carried off, as to create neither trouble, uneafinefs, nor bkmifh. - ^The edge, or border of each eye-Hd, is formed by a thin cartilage, the figure and coniiftence of which keep the lids properly ^expanded; thefe cartilages are covered by a fine membrane, and are called cilia; their internal edges do, upon every motion, fweep pVer fevery point of the furface of the cornea ; this motion, though almoft imperceptible, linlefs attended to, is very frequently per- formed, and as the fecretion of the fluid is alfo conftant, the eye is by this means kept always moift, clean, and bright. At the extremity of each of thefe cartila- ginous borders of the eye-lids, on. the fide next2^4- OBSERVATIONS ON THE next the nofe, is a fmall papilla, or eminence; and in the middle of each of thefe is a fmall hole, or perforation, which being made in the cartilage is not liable to collapfe while the parts are in a found ftate, but remains always open ; they are called the pun6la lachryma- lia, and their office is to receive the lachry- mal fluid, as it runs off the corner along the edges of the eye4ids, thereby preventing it from trickling down the cheek; and that there may be no impediment to the conftant execution of this office, during the time of deep, as well as that of being awake, the in- ternal edges of the cilia do not come into im- mediate contaa with each other in that point where thefe orifices are. From each of thefe punda lachrymalia pro- ceeds a fmall membranous tube, which tubes foon enter into, or form a pouch or bag, fituated near the inner angle of the eye, juft below the union of the two lids, under the mufculus orbicularis palpebrarum ;. the bag is called the facculus lachrymahs, and its office is to' receive all the lynfiph brought by the punaa and duds: the upper part of this facculus Hes in an excavation, formed partly by the nafal procefs of the os maxillare fupe- rias,FISTULA LACHRYMALIS. 285 riiis, and partly by the os unguis; the lower part of it is confined in a long channel, and forms a tube, or du<5t, which dcfcendino- obliquely backward, connmunicates with the cavity of the nofe, behind the os fpongiofum fuperius, by an opening whofe fize is fome- what different in different fubjefts. ; This paffage is called the du61:us ad nares or the dudius nafalis, and through it what- ever is received by the facculus from the pun6:a does, in a healthy and found ftate of thefe parts, pafs into the nofe. The membrane which lines this facculus and du£t, is in its ftrufture much like to the membrana pituitaria narium, from the fur- face of which a clear vifcid mucus is fecretcd, and by which the fucculus and paffages are conflantly moiftened and kept pervious. While the parts are in a healthy, found ftate, the fluid fecreted by the lachrymal gland paffes off through the pun6la, facculus, and dud:, into the nofe, without any trouble; but when they are in a difeafed ftate .the cafe is otherwife. This membrane, hke all other vafcular parts, is liable to inflammation, by which means it often happens, that iv is fo thickened as to obffrua the nafal dud, and thereby286 OBSERVATIONS ON TtiE thereby rniieh impede, or totally hinder, the paflage of anything through it; in confer quence of which obftru£tion the facculus is filled by its natural mucus, and the derivatiori. of the feirum from the lachrymal gland through it being thus prevented, it runs off frOm the eye-lid down the cheek: this ob- ftru6lion continuing, and the rriiicus ftill lodging, the facculus is dilated, and produces that tumor in the inner corner of the eye, and that difcharge, upon preflhre, whijch charac- terife the firft ftate of the difeafe in queftion^ and, in conjunction with feyeral other attend- ing fymptoms, prove its feat to be in the la- chrymal fac, and nafal du61:* s E c T. in. AiTriouGH the feat of this difeafe is the fame in almoft every fubje<S, yet its appear- ance is very different in different perfon^, and undef different eircumftances; Thefe varia- tions depeud principally on -t'i The degree of obftrudion in the nafal dud. 2. TheFISTULA LACHRYMALIS. 287 2. The ftate of the cellular membrane covering the fac. 3. The flate of the facculus itfelf. 4. That of the bone underneath. 5. The general ftate and habit of the patient \ Sometimes a ferous kind of dejBuxion, by which the hning of the fac and dud ai'e ^ thickened as to obftrud, or prevent the paf- fage of the fluid through them into the nofe, mak-es the whole complaint; and the cellular membrane on the outfide not being difeafed, there is aao appearance of inflammation. In this cafe the dud: is flopped, and the facculus xlilated, but without any alteration m the •colour of the Ikin; a fulnefs appears in the corner of the eye next to the nofe; and upon the application of a finger to this tumor, a €lear vifcid mucus is difcharged through the punda lachrymalia: the patient feels no pain, nor finds any inconvenience, except what is produced by the .difcharge of this mucus, ^ ' As the ftate and circumftanees of this difeafe are really va- nous, and differ very cffentially from each other, the general cuftom -of calling them all by the one name of fiftula lachry- •malis is abfurd. ' ^ - and t288 OBSERVATIONS ON THE and by the trickling of the lymph down the cheek. In fome cafes the mucus is not perfectly and always clear, but it is fometimes cloudy, and looks as if it had a mixture of milk or cream in it; at firft waking fome of it is ge- nerally found in the corner of the eye ; and the eye-lafhes, being fmeared over with it during deep, moft commonly adhere together the morning. This is the moft fimple ftate of the difeafe, what the French have called the hernia, or hydrops facculi lachrymalis : it is frequently met with in children who have been rickety, or are fubjedt to glandular obftrudions; and iri- this flate it fometimes remains for fome years, fubjedt to Httle alterations, as the health or habit fhall happen to vary, the fac- culus being fometimes more, fometimes lefs full, and troublefome ; the mucus which is preffed out is fometimes more, fometimes lefs cloudy, and now and then it is attended with a flight ophthalmy, or an inflammation of the eye-lids, but which, by common care, is eafily removed. 'If the facculus is not much dilated, the difcharge fmall, and produced only by pref- fure,FISTULA LACHRYMALIS. 289 fure, the chief inconveniences are the weep- ing eye, and the gumming together of the lids, after fleeping : but thefe, by being at- tended to, may be kept from being very troublefome, and if the difeafe makes no far- ther progrefs, may be fo regulated as to ren* der any more painful procefs totally unnecef- fary. If the dilatation is confiderable, the fwell- ing is more vifible, and the quantity of mucus is larger; it is alfo in this fiate more fre- quently mixt and cloudy, and more trouble- fome, from the more frequent neceffity of emptying the bag ; but if the patient be adult. It may, even in this more dilated ftate of it, be kept from being very inconvenient. If an inflammation comes on, the tumor is thereby conflderably increafed, the difcharge IS larger, as well during fleep as upon pref- fure; the flcin covering it lofes its natural whitenefs and foftnefs, becomes hard, and acquires an inflamed rednefs ; and with the mucus a mixture of fomething, which in colour refembles matter, is difcharged, efpe- cially if the preffure be made with any force, or continued for any time: this circumflance, added to the painful fenfation, and inflamed ^' appearance290 OBSERVATIONS ON THE appearance of the paitSj has been produftlve of a fuppofition, that in this flate there is either an ulcer or an abfcefs within the fac- culus or dud. As this is an opinion which, though it may poffibly fometimes have fome foundation in truth, yet it is in general entertained much too haftily, and is alfo the principal fource-. whence moft of the miftakes concerning this difeafe have fprung, I would beg leave to be indulged a few words on this fubjeft. It has already been obferved, that from the furface of the membrane which lines thefe parts a thin mucus is fecreted, by which its furface is fmeared over, in the fame manner as is that of all the membrane which covers 6r lines the fauces^ larynx, and internal parts of the nofe, the antra of the jaws, and the finufes of the fphenoid and ethmoid bones, &c. While the lachrymal fac is free from difeafe, and the du£tus ad nares open, this mucus is nearly limpid in colour, fmall in quantity, and- paffes infenfibly into the nofe with the fluid from the lachrymal gland ; but when, by, the obftruftion of the nafal dud, that paf- fage is denied, it neceffarily lodges in the fac- culus; by diftending and irritating its con- tainingFISTULA LACHRYMALIS. 291 taining bag it is increafed in quantity, altered in colour, and difcharged at the puncla la- chrjmalia, as it either becomes too much for the fac to contain, or as it is forced out by prelTure. This is a fhort and fuccindt "ac- count of the true nature of the difeafe, and fuch as will fairly and truly account for all its fymptoms and appearances^ without any re - courfe to either abfcefs or ulcer, circumftances which very feldom, if ever, attend it. That which is mixed with the clearer part of the mucus, and which from its pale yellow hue is taken for matter, is not matter, but mucus, which in this part, as v/ell as feveral others in the body, does, either by being confined beyond the neceffary time, or by inflammation, or irritation of the gknd or membrane which fecretes or contains it, or even from general affedion of the habit, put on a yellow, purulent colour, where there is neither abfcefs nor ulcer in the part whence it comes. So many inftances of this are producible as to put the matter beyond all doubt; the ure- thra, vagina, and all the finufes of the head which communicate with the nofe, furnifh us with them daily; the linings of all thefe ^ ^ are1 ip^ OBSERVATIONS ON THE are conftantly imbued with a mucus natu- rally clear, and no more in quantity, than is neceffary to keep the membranes moift; but either inflammation or irritation does imme- diately fo add to its quantity, and fo alter its colour, that in the two former the fame mif- take has often been made as in the fubjedt ,in queftion; that is, the difcharge has been thought to be purulent, and produced by ulceration of the parts. Thefe two fluids, pus and mucus, which have been fo frequently confounded together, do really differ fo widely from each other in their nature, conftitution, fources, purpofes, and effedls, that to diftinguifli them properly, and to point out the true chara6:cr of each, feems to be a matter of much importance: it would carry me too wide from my prefent purpofe to attempt it in this place, and there- fore I fhall only juft mention what may ferve merely to illuftrate that. If I conceive rightly of this affair, mucus, confidered in a general fenfe, is the effedl of a natural fecretion made by glands, mem- branes, or other bodies appointed for that purpofe, and is fo far from being originally the confequence of difeafe, that, in a due • ^ ^ quantity,FISTULA LACHRYMALIS. 293 quantity, it is abfolutely neceffary for feveral very important purpofes in the animal eco- nomy ; which purpofes, when this fluid is deficient, mufl: be ill executed, and fome kind of difeale or defedl follow: whoever will re- fledl upon the ufes of it in the inteftines, joints, Iheaths, or capfulae of the tendonSj in the finufes of the fcull ferving the purpofes of fpeech, in the cavity of the nofe, where the olfa£lory nerves do their duty, in the prof- tate gland, larynx, trachea, \irethra, and va- gina, will be eafily convinced of the truth of this affertion, both with regard to its natural ufes in a healtliy ftate and proper quantity, and the-fhare it frequently has in the produc- tion of difeafes, when it is either vitiated or redundant. Pus, or matter, is certainly no natural fe- cretion; fuppuration, though it is an adl of nature when fome parts of the body have been forcibly divided from each other, is neverthe- lefs to be regarded as the effea of violence and deftrudion, at leaft of divifion; for, without entering minutely into the origin or nature of it, I believe I may venture to af- firm, that the dilTolution of fome of the folid U 3 particles294 OBSERVATIONS ON TH^ particles of broken capillary veffels, and a mixture of ippie part of the juices which ihould circulate through them, make a ner ceflarj part of its produdtio^ ; however con- ftant its appearance may be in the pj-ogrefs toward healing a v/ound or fore, yet it never is produced, even in the fmalleft, quantity, without fome degree of erofion, fome breach in the natural ftrudture of the parts; and when fuch breach is healed, the difcharge neceffarily ceafes. On the contrary, mucus may by irritation, relaxation, or defluxion, on its fecreting or containing parts or organs, be increafed to a .quantity far beyoiid what is neceffary or ufcr ful, and produce thereby a difeafe in parts where there is not the leall: degree of folution .of continuity, as in the cafes of tenefmus, Hone in the bladder, fluor albus, and fimple gleets from the urethra; as alfo in that kind of defluxion on the nofe and fauces, producing a catarrh, and in the immediate effect of all flernutatories. Other differences between the nature and properties of the two fluids might be men- tioned ; but if thefe already cited are juft, they willrrSTULA LACHRYMALIS. 295 will 'be fufficient to evince the impropriety of 'confounding them together, either with re- •gard to theory or practice. Nor is this miftake of difcoioured mucus for matter confined to the lachrymal fac only; the two circumll:anc€S of pain, and yellow colour, having- in almoft all times produced the fame mifconception in the virulent go- norrhea of both fexes: this has been called pus, and being faid to proceed from ulcer- ations in the urethra and vagina, though the repeated tefbimony of thofe who have, imme- diately after death, examined the parts of per- sons lb difealed, has often been produced to the contrary, and though the difcharge^itfelf when properly examined will always prove the contrary, inflammation and irritation of the membranous linings of the urethra, and va- gina, will fully account for all the appear- ances in this difeafej, in which there is neither matter, nor ulcer, nor abfcefs -: whoever will attend to the difcharge made from a purulent ulcer, will find it widely different from that which ifliies from either of the above parts in the gonorrhea. Again, in cafe of ftriaures in the male ure- thra, the difcharge occafioned by a bougie, 4- properly29^ OBSERVATIONS ON THE properly and judicioufly ufed, is a difcoloured mucusr and not matter, though it is gene- rally fo called: it is from the difcharge of this mucus, and the dilatation of the paflac^e that the relief is obtained, not from any de- ftrudion or diyifion of parts: the bougie which produces true matter, does much more harm than good, and makes a fore where there was none, and where there ought to be none. How often do catarrhous defluxions m the trachea and larynx wear toward the clofe a deep purulent colour, fo as to deceive the unknowing into an opinion, that it is matter upon the lungs ? But no judge of thefe things ever had recourfe to abfcelTes or ulcers for a folution of fuch appearance. The argu* pient drawn from the quantity of thefe dif- charges is as erroneous as thofe taken from its colour; ^s an inflammatory defluxion on the part does generally occafion the latter, fo mere irritation will produce the former, which does glfo generally ceafe when the irritating caufe is removed or appeafcd. How immediately is a moft troublefome tenefmus cured by a glyf- ter of ilarch and opium ? What large foetid difcharges are made from behind the prepuce pf many perfojis, not only free from all ve- nerealFISTULA LACHRYMALK. 297 nereal taint, but without any ulceration of the parts, by a kind of exfudation ? To what length of time will they not continue, if ne- glefted, and how immediately do they ceafe by the ufe of a fpirituous or vitriolic wafh ? How often is the fluor albus, even in fome of its worft circumftances, moderated, not to fay cured, merely by wafhing away the acrid mucus, which, lodging in the rugas of the vagina, continually irritated the parts to a frefh difcharge, and perpetuated the difeafe ? What quantity of (lime is there in the urine of thofe who have a ftone in the bladder ? And how totally does it ceafe, upon that ftone being difcharged, or taken away? Whereas neither cleanfing of parts, nor removal of irritating bodies, does, or ever can procure an imme- diate ceffation of a difcharge of true matter, which being occafioned by a folution of con- tinuity, an erofion or divifion of the parts whence it proceeds muft decreafe gradually, and at laft can only ceafe by fuch part becom- ing whole again. In (hort, the two fluids are fo abfolutely different and diftind, that the blending them together in our ideas of difeafe, proceeding from, or producing either of them, cannot be29S OBSERVATIONS OW THE be too induftrioufly avoided. It is a fubjed on which a great deal more might be faid, as it would comprehend, or have relation to many diforders which perhaps are not fufH» ciently underftood, or attended to; but beins: befide my prefent purpofe, I (hall fay no more , about it, only defire that I may not be mif- underftood as if I meant to affert, that there never is abfcefs or ulcer in the lachrymal fac, and dud: No, I only mean to fignify, that it is my opinion, that the yellow or purulent colour of the difcharge, which is generally received as a proof of fuch, is no proof at all; that this colour may be, and moft frequently is, dependent on other caufes; that though by the fuppuration of the cellular membrane co- ^ vering the fac, the upper part of it fometiraes becomes floughy, and burfts, yet the lower part of it, and the nafal dud, are often at the fame time perfeftly found; and that there never is abfcefs or ulcer within, while the fkin is entire and preferves its natural hue and ' foftnefs, let the colour of the difcharge be ever fo yellow; circumftances of no fmall confequence in the treatment of this difeafe. The inflammation of the cellular mem?- brane covering the fac, is a circumftance which1 FISTULA LACHRYMALIS. 299 which makes a confiderable difference, both in the appearance of the difeafe, and in its reqiiilite treatment; in fome cafes it is conv fined merely to the furface of the tumor in the corner of thp eye; in others it fpreads Ml farther, affecting the eje-lids, check, and lide pf the nofe. When the parts are in this ftate, the mucus within the bag has generally the appearance of being matter, that is, it wears a deep yel.- low colour, and is of a more thin confidence; if the pun<aa lachrymalia are naturally large and open, and the inflammation confined to the furface of the fac, its contents will pafs off pretty freely, and the fkin will remain, entire; this is what the ancients called the fimple, orimperfedl, or anchylops. But when the fkin covering the lachry-. mal bag has been for fome time inflamed, or fubjea to frequently returning inflammations. It moft commonly happens, that the punfta lachrymalia are affeded by it, and the fluid not having an opportunity of paffing off through them, diflends the inflamed fkin, fo that at laft it becomes floughy, and burfls externally. This is that ftate of the difeafe which IS called perfea: Aigylops, or ^gy. lops;$0O OBSERVATIONS ON THE lops; the difcharge which ufed to be made through the punfta lachiymaha, while the Ikiii was entire, is now made through the new opening, and by excoriating the eye-lid& and cheek increafes the inflammation, and gives the difeafe a much more difagreeable appearance. In fome the matter burfls through a fmall hole, and after it has dif- charged itfelf, the tumor fubfides, the neigh- bouring parts become cool, and though the ikin covering the furface of the facculus is floughy and foul, yet there is no reafon to believe that the fac itfelf is much difeafed below ; in others the breach is large, the Ikin remains hard and inflamed, and from the ap- pearance of the fore, there is reafon to fup- pofe the whole infide of the bag to be in a difeafed ftate ; and in fome cafes, which have, been much negle6led or irritated by ill-treat- ment, the cavity of t-he facculus feems-to be filled with a loofe iH*natured fungus, which gleets largely, and produces inflammation and excoriation of all the parts about. There is alfo another circumftance which fometimes is found to attend this diforder, viz. a carious ftate of the bones. This was by our forefathers fuppofed to be a frequent one,FISTULA LACHRYMALIS. ^Ql one, and was the principal reafon for their fo free iife of cauftic, cautery, and fcalpra, in the treatment of it; but fince the difeafe has been more minutely examined into, this circumflrance has been found to be a very rare one. When the fiftula lachrymalis is a lymp- tom of the lues venerea, as it fometimes. is, the bones are indeed often carious; but then, the fiftula is not the original complaint, but produced fecondarily, and is a confequence of the difeafed ftate of the os ethmoides, and offa fpongiofa, of the nofe, and is not curable by any local means or applications, but depends entirely on the cure of the difeafe of which it is a fymptom. I have alfo feen an abfcefs after the fmall- pox, which, by falling on the lachrymal bag, has made it all flough away, and leave the bones bare; which circumftance I have alfo feen attend the free ufe of ftrong efcharotics applied to deftroy what is called the cyft; but without the accelTion of fome other diforder producing it, or the moft abfurd method of treating the complaint, I believe that a caries of the bones will very feldom be met with. Indeed the combination of other difeafes, either of the general habit,, or affeding the *' fame,OBSERVATIONS ON THE fame, or the neighbouring parts, does oftert rtake a very material difference, both in the appearance of the diforder, in the prognoftic, and in the proper method of treating it, which therefore fhould always be inquired into : for inftance, the patient is fometimes fubjea to an habitual ophthalmy, or lippi- tudo, which will add to the deformity, and give a good deal of additional trouble during the cure; an oz^na^ or fome other difeafe of the membrane, and cells of the ethmoid bone, or a polypofe excrefcence within the nofe, are now and then combined with it; the ha- bit is fometimes, as I have before obferved, infedted with the lues venerea, of which this difeafe may be a iymptom; ftrumous glan- dular obftruftions are its too frequent compa- nions ; and, what is worfl of all, it is Ibme- times cancerous. SECT. IV. From what has been faid, I think it will appear that this difeafe, in its primary and moft fimple ftate, conlifts in a detention or lodgmentF23T-ULA LACH-RYMALIS-. lodgment of mucus in the facculus lachryma- lis, in confequence of an obftrudlion of the natural paflage from that bag into the nofe; that by means of this lodgment the facculus is diflended, irritated, and fometimes in- flamed ; that the fluid which pafles from the, lachrymal gland over the eye to the punda lachrymalia, being prevented by the fulnefs of the fac from getting into it, runs down, the cheek ; and therefore that the charac- teriftic marks of the diforder, when recent,. are a fmall tumor in the corner of the eye, an involuntary flux of ferum down that fide of the face, and a difcharge of mucus through the punda lachrymalia upon preffure.,. This lodgment, being originally produced, by the ftoppage of the natural dud, it fol- lows, that the Rrd curative intention is, the removal of that obftrudion; which is fome- times prafticable, but more often not; the degree of obftrudion, its date, the ftate of the adjacent parts, and fome other circum- ftances, rendering it more or lefs fo ii^ifFer- ent fubje6ls. ' ' That the inexperienced praditioner may be guarded againft giving a hafly prognose,, or making attempts, which however fatio-ue-,, ing3fP4 OBSERVATIONS ON THE ing to the patient, muft in the end prove fruitlefs ; and that he may be enabled to un- derftand the difeafe more perfedly, I fhali take the liberty to divide it into four general heads, or ftates, under which all its lefler diftindlions may be comprehended. The firft coniifts in a limple dilatation of the facculus, and obftrud;ion of the nafal du6l, difcharging upon prefiure a mucus either quite clear, or a little cloudy; the Ikin covering the bag being entire and perfectly free from inflammation. In the fecond, the tumor' is fomewhat larger; the ikin which covers it is in an inflamed ftate, but entire ; and the difcharge made through the pun da lachrymalia is of a pale yellow, or purulent colour. In the third, the Ikin covering the faccu- lus is become floughy and burft, by which means the fwelling is in fome meafure lef- fened ; but the mucus, which while the Ikin was entire, ufed to be prefl'ed out through- th« punfta lachrymalia, now difcharges itfelf through the new aperture; the dudlus ad nares, both in this and the preceding ftate, are not otherwife difeafed, than by the thick- ening of its lining. InFISTULA LACHRYMACrs. r In the fourth, the paflage from the facculus lachrymalis into the nofe is totally obliter- ated, the infide of the former being cither ulcerated, or filled up with a fungus, and attended fbmetimes with a caries of the bone underneath. Thefe will, I think, comprehend every ftate and circumftance of the difeafe, and, if attended to, will in general point out the proper method of treating it. The antients, who fuppofed this diforder in its firfl ftate to be an inflammatory de- fluxion from the brain on the caruncle tend- ing to fuppurate, direded their firft attention to prevent fuch confequence ; for which pur- pofe they employed phlebotomy, cathartics, iffues, fetons, collyria, and refrigerant apph- cations of all forts ^ ; and thefe not fucceeding, they had recourfe to fuch as they thought « The old writers have many forms of collyria, epithems> &c. which they ufed upon this occafioa, but iffues and fetons they lay great ftrefs on, wliich praftice may immediately fatisfy what was their opinion of the. nature of the difeafe " Omnium vero pr^fta.tiffimum eft fetaceum, materiam enim ad oculos fluentem potenter ad fe trahit et evacuat, caput ab ommbus excrementitiis humoribus expurgat, et egregie ooro- ' borat; qu,dp]ura, tanti eft momenti ut inveteratam fiftulam lachrymalcm line hoc prsfidio vix curari poffe." Vol. l X ' ^J ^ would0I3SERVATI0NS ON THE v/cmld haften the fuppuration of the fuppofed abfcefs ^ By ^ Mr. Serjeant Wifeman moft certainly did not underlknd this difeafe, and miftook it either for a tumor of the encyfted kind, or for an inflammatory defluxion, and treated it as fuch: his words are, " JEgylops is a tumor of the inner canthus of the eye, either " fcrophulous, setheromatous, or of the nature of a meliceris, " or fometimes with inflammation : the caufes of ^gylops are the fame that produce the like tumor in other places, but " fometimes it is made by fluxion, and appeareth firft as a " plegmon : if it be ftruma or etheronia, it is made by conv gellion." " The indications of cure are taken from the ^gylops, whe- " ther it be in its beginning with inflammation, or by con- " geftion, pafling its matter forth under the cilium into the " eye, in which cafe it is fiflulated, Anchylops has alfo its " peculiar way of treating as other tumors of the glands." Without any defign to criticife on the flrange unintelligibi- lity of the Serjeant's language, I believe I may venture to fav, that no man who is not previoufly acquainted with the nature of the difeafe, will learn from hence that its feat is in the lachry- mal fac, and that an obfl:rudlion in the nafal dudl is the firfi: caufe of it. To come ftill nearer, or even into our own time; Dr. Daniel Turner compiled a treatife of furgery, which was univerfally difperfed, and read all over the kingdom, and was at that time generally looked upon as a true reprefentation of the London praftice : the Doftor fays, " Anchylops or yEgylops are dif- " eafes of the internal canthus of the eye, in which the la- " chrymal gland is concerned, and from whence the fifl:ula of the fame part is denominated : the prognoflic may be ga- ** theredFISTULA LACHRYMALIS. By the ifnproper life of medicines of the latter kind, it frequently happened that the (kin became inflamed and bur ft; the dif- charge which neceflarily followed this acci- dent, together with the heated appearance of the parts about, confirmed their opinion of a colledioil of matter within ; and according to fuch fuppofition, they attempted to obtain a cure by dilating the orifice, and endeavouring to make an incarnation from the bottom of the hollow : not being acquainted with the " thered from the method of cure, in which, univerfals pre- " mifed, fuch as bleedings, purgings, Sec. you may attempt " to diflblve the humour by fome gentle anodyne, or difcutient " cataplafm, but if it inflame and fuppurate, you mull haflen " maturation, as well as the difcharge, by reafon of the part " it lies upon; but when, notwithftanding all your endeavours " to incarn and agglutinate, the matter continues to difcharge " itfelf, not only by the outward orifice, but alfo under the " cilium into the eye, you muft try fome more powerful defic- " cative." I believe no one will venture to fay, that the nature and feat of the difeafe is more or better explained by what the Doftor has faid, than by the Serjeant; and I think it is perfedly cler,r that neither of them had any true idea of it at all; they both millook the caruncle for the lachrymal gland, and the difeafe for an encyfted, or a fcrophulous tumor, which ought to be brought to fuppuration ; the lachrymal fac, the duftus ad nares. their ufe, and the diforder of them creating the complaint in queftion, they were totally unacquainted with. ^ 2 fituatiou308 OBSERVATIONS ON THE lituation, or ufe of the nafal du€t, they took no care to free it from the obftru£tion under which it laboured, but dreffing the fore like a common impofthumation, permitted it either to be filled up with a loofe fungus, or to contract itfelf to a narrow fiftulous orifice, which daily difcharging a difcoloured kind of fluid, and not healing by fuch means as they made ufe of, they concluded the bone under- neath was carious, and made way down to it, either by removing the parts with a cut- ting inftrumeat, or by deftroying them with cauftic and cautery, intending to procure an exfoliation, and thereby a firmer bafis to heal on But fince the ufe of the du6lus nafalis has been kiiown, fmce it has been difcovered Humulo fummum ejus foraminis excipiendam, et totum id cavum ficut in fiftulis dixi, ufque ad os excide.ndum. Celsus. Corpus id quod inter angulum ufque ad abfceffum eft exco- luimus, & carnes e profundo educimus; quod fi igitur per fumma ruptus fuerit abfceffus, totum id quod eminet ufque ad OS expidendum. P a u l u s. Si vero per haec medicamenta non curetur, aut recediraret poftea, fignum eft quod os eft corruptum de fubtus, quare tunc oportet locum detegi et os corruptum removeri. L AN FRANC. thatFISTULA LACHRYMALIS. 309 that an obftru6lion in this is the primary and principal caiife of the diforder, and that what pafled for the cavity of an abfcefs is really the facculus lachrymalis, both the intention of cure, and the means, have been confiderably altered. In the firft and moft fimple ftate of the difeafe, viz. that of mere obftrudtion, without inflammation, rnuch pains have been taken to reftore the parts to their natural ftate and ufe, without making any Wound or divifion at all; the introdudlion of a probe, the in- jedtion of a fluid, and a conftant compreflion made on the outfide of the facculus in the corner of the eye, are the principal means by which this has been attempted. Some few years ago M. Anel made a probe of fo fmall a fize as to be capable of paffing from the eye-lid into the nofe, being intro- duced at one of the punda lachrymalia, and paffing through the facculus and dudl; with which probe he propofed to break through any fmall obftruftion which might be found in its paflage. He alfo invented a fyringe whofe pipe is ' fmall enough to enter one of the punfta, and by that means to furnifh an opportunity of ^ 3 injeding310 OBSERVATIONS ON THE injefting a liquor into the facculus and du£t; and with thefe two inftruments he pretended to be able to cure the difeafe whenever it confifted in obftrudion merely, and the dif- charge was not much difcoloured. The firft of thefe, viz. the paflage of a fmall probe through the puncta, has a plaufible appear- ance, but will, upon trial, be found very unequal to the talk affigned ; the very fmall fize of it, its neceffary flexibility, and the very Iktle rcfiftance it is capable of.making, are manifefl deficiencies in the inftrument; the quick fenfation in the lining of the fac and du£t, and its difeafed ftate, are great ob- jedtions on the fide of the parts, fuppofiiig. that it was capable of anfwering any valuable end, which it moft certainly is not. That the paffing a fine probe from one of the pun6la lachrymalia into the nofe is very prafticable, I know from experience; but I alfo know from the fame experience, that the pain it gives, and the inflammation it often excites, are much greater than any be- nefit Vv^hich does or can a rife from it. It is faid that the principal ule of this probe is to clear the little duds leading from the punda into the facculus,,- and the obftrudion 6 ' ofFISTULA LACHRYMALI9. 3II of thofe duds is often mentioned as a part of this difeafe; by which one would be led to fuppofe that it was a circurtiftance which fre- quently occurred, whereas it is feldom if ever met with, and when it does happen, can never produce the difeafe in queftioij, the principal charafteriftic of which is, a dif- charge into the inner corner of the eye upon preflure made in the angle ; this difcharge is made from the facculus, through the punda, and proves that the latter arc open ; the pafT- ing a probe therefore through thefe feems to be perfeftly unneceflary, fince a ftoppage of them would never give rife to that difeafe, which confifts in an obftruflion to the palfage of any thing from the fac into the nofe, and not from the eye into the fac. The fyringe, if ufed judicioufly while the difeafe is recent, the fac very httle dilated, and the mucus perfeftly clear, will fometimes be found ferviceable ; I have ufed it where, I think, it has been much fo; I have by means of it iniedled a fluid through the fac- cuius into the nofe, and in two or three m- ftances have effeded cures by it, but I have alfo often ufed it ineffeftually; it gives no 4 ^ pain,3^2 OBSERVATIONS ON THE pain, and a few trials render the ufe of it very little troublefome. • Fabritius ab Aquapendente invented an inftrument, which was fo contrived, as by means of a fcrew to make a preffure exter- nally.€)n the lachrymal bag, from the ufe of which, he fays his patients received much benefit; this inftrument has been confider- ably improved by late praftitioners, and is ilill recommended as very ufeful. All the good that can be obtained by com- prefs and bandage, this fcrew is capable of procuring; but it is alfo fubjed to all the fame inconveniencies, arifmg from the im- poflibihty of determining exadly the due de- gree of preffure: for if it be fo great as to bring the fides of the upper part of the fac into contadl, all communication between it, and the punda will be thereby ftopt; if it be but flight, the accumulation will not be pre- vented, nor does it in either cafe contribute to the removal of the obftrudion in the nafal du£t, the primary and original caufe of the difeafe, > If the curative intention was to procure an union of the fides of the facculus, as in the ca.foFISTU-LA LACIIRYMALIS. 313 cafe of parts feparated from each other by the formation of matter or doughs, and the pref- fure could be made uniformly and conftantly, poliibly it might be fo managed as to an- iwer a valuable purpofe ; but" as that is not the intention, the preffure, whether made by an inftrument, or by a common roller and comprefs, contributes little or nothing toward a cure, nor did I ever fee one effe£led by it, although 1 have feveral times tried both. That fome flight obftrudlions of the nafal dud have gone off while the compreffion has been ufed, I do not deny ; but am in great doubt concerning the fhare which it had in removing them, having feen more than one inftance of a cure being obtained by the ufe of a proper regimen and medicines, in_flight and recent cafes, where nothing is ufed ex- ternally but a vitriolic collyrium; and having been always difappointed in my attempts by mere bandage of any kind. Befides thefe means of attempting a cure without incifion, the gentlemen of the French .'Academy have favoured us with fome others, fuch as the introdudion of a probe into the lower part of the nafal dud within3H OBSERVATIONS ON THE the nofe, the injeaion of a fluid by the fame onfice, the palling a feton from the pundtum iachrymale fuperius through the facculus and duft and out at the noflril, there to remain till the cure is completed ; and for thofe pur- pofes they have invented and given figures of a number of probes, fyringes, arid many other inflruments, which, they fay, have been very fuccefsfully ufed; far be it from me to fay that they have not, or to prevent any body from trying thofe, or any other means by which mankind may be cured of difeafes with the leaft poffible fatigue and pain; but from the experiments M^hich I have made of tno& of tbefe procefies, I mufl: beg leave to fufpend my affent to their general utility, or even to their frequent prafticability. Repeated trials upon dead fubjedts will un- doubtedly enable a man to pafs the probe, or perhaps now and then the feton, but he will alfo find it often abfolutely impradicable ; and in the few inflances in which he may chance to fucceed as to this attempt, what will in general be the confequence ? not what the writers on thefe fubje6ts have taught him to believe, a cure, but a fenfe of pain, and degree of inflammation, which the patient, beforeFISTULA LACHRYMALIS. 3T5 before fuch attempts were made, was free from; an exafperation of the difeafe, and a lofs of rnuch time, as I have more than once experienced. To which confideration may be added, that infants and young children are very often affli6led with this diforder, ancj that fuch procefles as thefe are abfolutely im- practicable upon them, I fhould be very forry to be mifunderftood in what I now fay, to have it fufpedted, that I mean to derogate from the charadler of thofe gentlemen who have been the inventors of thefe operations, or that I fpeak flightingly of them, either becaufe they are not my own, or becaufe I have not been able to fucceed in the ufe of them : it would give me great con- cern if I thought it would be believed that I ad:ed upon fo mean, fo narrow a principle; no man is or would be more pleafed with any real improvement in our art than myfelf; but having taken all the pains in my power to apply the difcoveries of which I am now fpeaking to pradice (the only teil: of good furgery), and having found them moft fre- quently imprafticable, always inefFedua], I think myfelf obliged to fay fo. Anel's fyringe I have ufed fuccefsfully, and think316 OBSERVATIONS ON THE think it may now and then be very well worth trymg, in repent cafes more efpecially, as it may always be ufed without giving any pain, or running the rilk of raifing an inflammation; but I muft alfo beg leave to obferve, that if the bag is not much dilated, the mucus clear, the {km and cellular membrane uninflamed, and the parts about foft and eafy, if the pa- tient will take care not to fuffer too great an accumulation, will, by the frequent ufe of a vitriolic collyrium, keep the eye-lids clean and cool, and carefully avoid fuch things as irritate the membrana narium, or occahon a fudden flux of lymph from the lachrymal gland, the difeafe may for many years, nay often for life, be kept from being very trouble- feme or inconvenient, without any furgery 3.t all. SECT. V. When the "difeafe is got beyond the fimple ftate jufl defcribed, that is, when the parts round about are much, or conftantly inflamed, or the fkin -covering the tumor is burft, thereVISTULA LACHRYMALIS. ^IJ? is fomething more to be done, if a cure is intended. In this ftate an opening in the upper part of the facculus lachrjmaHs becomes in general abfolutelj neccfiary; and as a wound made by a knife leaves a much lefs difagreeable fear than that which neceflarily follows the burfting of the Ikin, one being a mere fimple 'divifion, the other a lofs of fubftance; it will always be found beft to anticipate the accident of burft- ing, by making the opening as foon as the integuments are in fuch a ftate as to threaten to it. For the making this incifion authors have been very particular in their direftion with regard to its place, manner, and form ; they have ordered it to be femilunar, having its concave part toward the eye, and that the point of union of the lids fliould be exadlly oppofite to the centre of the incifion; this lunated figure was calculated to correfpond with the courfe of the fibres of the orbicular mufcle, upon a fuppofition that a tranfverfe fedion of them would produce an inverfion of the lower lid, an effed which never fol- lows : all that the furgeon need obferve is, to takeJlS OBSERVATIONS ON THE take care to keep the knife at a proper diflance from the junfture of the palpebrae, to begin the incifion a very little above a line drawn from that jundure toward the nofe, and to continue it downward ; its form may full as well be ftraight as any other, and the beft inflrument to make it with is a fmall crooked biftory. If the facculus is already burft, the place of opening is determined, and the orifice may be enlarged with a knife, or dilated. The incifion made, the facculus fhould be moderately diftended, either with dry lint, or a bit of prepared fponge ; by which means an opportunity will be gained in two or three days of knowing the ftate of the infide of the fac, and of the dudus nafalis ; if the former ' is neither floughy nor otherwife difeafed, and the obftrudlion in the latter but flight, it fometimes happens, that after a free difcharge has been made for fome days, and the inflam- mation occafioned by the firft operation is gone off, the fac contradts itfelf, a fuperficial dreffing, with moderate preflure, heals the fore, the lachrymal fluid refumes its wonted courfe, and the difeafe difappears. OfFISTULA LACHRYMALJS. ^jg Of this I have feen more than one inflance, and perhaps it would happen oftener, if the very abfurd manner in which this diforder is generally treated after opening the bag, did not prevent it: in this Hate fuccefs is to be expeded from the moft gentle treatment only; whatever irritates, inflames, or deftroys, will infaUibly prevent it. If this fimple method does not fucceed, or from the ftate of the parts feems unhkely to do fo, another mufl: be tried, which the open- ing already made will enable us to put in praaice: the point to be aimed at is, if pof- fible, to render the nafal dud pervious to the lachrymal fluid ; and we muff' endeavour to obtain this end by fuch means as give the leaft pain, excite the leaft inflammation, and leave the parts as near as poffible in -their natural ftate; that is, we are to endeavour to dilate the paflTage from the fac to the nofe, by feme means which will gradually diftend it without deflroying its texture, in the fame manner as the dilatation of the urethra ought to be ef- feded in the cafe of ftridlures, by paffino- either a probe, or a piece of cat-gut, or a' bougie, gently into it, as far as it will eafilyOBSERVATIONS OJ^ THg go, and repeating it occafionally, until it is got quite through, and the paffage is free Every man will determine for himfelf, by what means he will endeavour to accomplifh this end ; nor is it of very material confe- quence which he prefers, provided it be done gradually, and without giving pain : a proper dilatation of the upper part of the facculus by dry lint, or a bit of prepared fponge, will be found ufeful previous to the attempt toward paffing any thing into, or through the dud ; and it will alfo be necefiary that the furgeon be pofleffed of a juft idea of tlie iize and direc- tion of it, both in a natural and a difeafed flate; for whoever has formed one only from viewing: its bonv channel in a drv fcull, will •upon experiment find himfelf much deceived with regard to its diameter in a living fubjed; the membrane which lines it is not extremely thin, in a healthy ftate, and when it is in- * This caution is very neceffary to be obferved in the cure of ftriftures of the urethra, in which cafe the proper intention is gradually to dilate the paffage, and to procure an increafed difcharge of mucus from the lacunae; this fhould always be done gently, and by means which give as little pain as poffible; whatever ij-ritates or gives pain v/ill certainly do mifchief, will add to the obllru£lion, and increafe the dyfury. flamedFISTULA LACHRYMALIS. ^21 flamed or thickened by obftrudlion, the paf- fage through the dud is thereby rendered very fmall, if it is not quite fliut up. They of our anceflors who miftook this difeafe for an abfcefs, and found (as indeed they always muft) extreme difficulty in filling it up with found flefli, generally had recourfe to efcharotic medicines for the deftrudion of that fungus which feemed to hinder them from accomplifhing their end ; by which condud they irritated all the neighbouring parts, in- creafed the inflammation, and were moft fre- quently fruftrated in their expedation of a cure at laft. The fame kind of medicines were alfo ufed by thofe who fuppofed the dif- order to be an encyfted tumor; with intention to eradicate the cyft, which, they thought, prevented a cure by remaining behind; and both thefe methods of pradice were vindicable, fup- pofmg their idea of the difeafe had been a true one, which, it moft undoubtedly was not • their reafoning was right, but their principles were wrong; they were in general very little acquainted with the ftrudure and ufe of the parts and totally miftook the nature of the dileafe. Y But322 OBSERVATIONS ON THE But now, that we are thoroughly ac- quainted with both, this kind of pra£lice ought furely to ceafe, as the prefervation of the facculus and duel, and not their deftruc- tion, are, or ought to be intended : all cathae- retic medicines muft be wrong and prejudi- cial, at leafl: while the intention is fuch; an intention at all times rational, and fometimes capable of being fulfilled. Notwithftanding the deftrudlion of the bag is allowed to be wrong by moft furgeons of the prefent time, yet there are many, who, by their manner of dreffing it, after they have opened it, do really, though not intention- ally, produce the fame efFed as our forefa- thers aimed at: it is ftill a cuftom with many, as foon as it is opened, to diftend the cavity of it with a hard tent, or with doffils of hnt charged with efcharotic medicines, fuch as mercurius precipitatus ruber, &c. by which means the inflammation is increafed, the Ikin and edges of the incifion hardened, and the infide of the facculus put under the neceffity of cafting off a flough. This is one of feveral inftances lliill rem.aining of our adhering to old methods of pradice, after the principles on whichFISTULA LACHRYMALIS. 323 which fuch methods were originally formed, have been allowed even by ourfelves to be erroneous ; for this manner of dreffing the fore is effectively the fame as the ancients made life of, while they fuppofed the difeafe to be an abfcefs of the caruncule, and encyfted tur- mor, or a callous ulcer with carious bone ; and was by them intended very properly for the deftrudlion of fuch callofity, to affift the exfoliation of the fuppofed caries, and to pro- cure a firm bafis to incarn upon. On the contrary, the point which ought firft to be aimed at, immediately after having made an opening into the fac, is to endeavour to remove the obftruftion of the natural paf- fage from thence into the nofe, by the means already mentioned, which defign this method of cramming in efcharotic drefhngs muft ne- ceflkrily fruftrate, muft frequently render a fimple cafe complex, and at leall: retard that cure it is defigned to expedite. the only excufe that can be now made for ilich method of dreffing is, that the furgeon IS fatisfied that the dudus ad nares cannot be reftored to its ufe, and therefore, by deftroy- ing part of the facculus, intends to procure fuch a generation of new flefli, as may f 11 up Y 2 its314- OBSERVATIONS ON THE its cavity, and hinder the accumulation or lodgment there in future. If this was feafible, perhaps it might be a vindication of fuch treatment; but unfortu- nately it neither is, nor can be fo in general; and whoever will attentively examine the na- tural fituation and ftrudure of the parts con- cerned, will immediately fee why it cannot. All, or the greateft part of the difeafed and obftruded du£l, lying in its bony channel out of the reach of what is applied to the infide of the facculus, mufl; prevent the generation of a firm bafis at its bottom, and produce a frefh coUeftion of mucus, which in a (hort fpace of time lifts up the cicatrix into a new tumor, and requires the fame treatment as if nothing at all had been done. On the other hand, it mufh not be denied, that now and then a cure has by this means been effe£led ; but it has been fo rarely, that it can hardly be admitted as an authority or vindication of fo irrational an attempt. The parts about the eye arc moft of them of very quick fenfation, and eafily irritated ; all dreffmgs are in fa<5l extraneous bodies, and therefore, when apphed to fuch parts, cannot be too foft and light: fuppuration is an aft ofFISTULA LACHRYMALIS. , 325 of nature, not of art; and is always beft exe- cuted when fhe is leaft difturbed : this is a general truth, and will hold good in all parts of the body, even where fuppuration may be moft wanted; but in the prefent cafe, in which the lower part of the fac, and all the dud, are often in fuch ftate as not to require any fuppuration at all, efcharotic dreffings of any kind, by producing inflammation both of the eye and caruncule, by rendering the edges of the fore hard, or floughy, and by de- ilroying the communication between the pun6la lachrymalia and jfacculus, muft necef- farily counterad the only proper intention of cure. I would not in this place be thought to mean, that a mere fuperficial pledget is all the dreffing that is required; no; a moderate di- latation of the upper part of the facculus is at firft abfolutely neceffary, in order to get eafily at the dua below; but this fhould be effeded without the ufe of corrofwe applications of any kind, and is beft accomplilhed by prepared fponge, which will diflend to almoft any de- gree, without deftroying. When a palTage has been once obtained, it ihould be carefully kept open, either by a piece Y3 of3^0 OBSERVATIONS ON THE of cat-gut, a fmall bougie, a leaden probe, or fomething of that fort; and when it is tho- roughly eftabliflied, the fore may be permitted to contradl, until it becomes no more than what ferves for the introdudion of the bougie into the dud ; in this ftate I would advife, that it be kept open for feme time, injeding now and then a little aqua calcis, foftened with mell. rofar. through from above into the nofe; and when it appears that the paffage is fo free, and fo well eftabhflied, that there is good probability of its preferving itfelf, the orifice in the angle of the eye, by being co- vered only by a fuperficial bit of plafter, or pledget, will contra6t and clofe; and if during its clofing, moderate preffure be ufed on the facculus, to prevent a frefh accumulation of mucus, it will affift the cure. Whether the facculus in a healthy and un- dilated ftate, is endued with any degree of contra£lile power, which it lofes by being diftended, or to what other caufe it may be owing, I know not; but I have more than once been foiled in my attempts towards this method of curing the difeafe, by a frefh col- ledion of mucus, notwithftanding the nafal dud has remained open, as appeared by the difcharsre oFISTULA LACHRYMALTS. 327 difcharge made into the nole upon preffure on the tumor, the immediate fubfidence of the faid tumor, and the paffage of an injec- tion, or fmall probe, after having again opened the fac. Some of thefe have, upon being again healed, remained good cures, and others not ; the uncertainty which attends thefe cafes is great, and the event never to be known but by experiment. Whoever fays, that none of them are to be cured by the fore- going method, errs as much as he would, who fliould expedt it to fucceed in all; where the difeafe is in fuch ftate as to admit its beino- tried, it is very well worth while, as it is not painful nor tedious; and where it does not anfwer our expedations, it is no hindrance to any other more efficacious one being made ufe of afterward: in all thefe cafes, different cir- cumftances in the patient, or in the ftate of the difeafed parts, muft produce a variation in the neceffary treatment, both in general and particular: a bad habit will require the ufe of internal remedies ; the combination of other difeafes of the neighbouring parts wJ.1 add to the difficulty and trouble ; and c-ven the faireft, and fuch as feem moft Ukely to Y 4 fucceed.328 OBSERVATIONS ON THE fucceed, do fometimes refifl this, and indeed every other attempt. From the neceffity of keeping the eye bound while dreffings are appHed for the dila^ tation of the facciilus, an inflammation is fre- quently raifed. This, added to the neceffary difcharge of ferum, mucus, &c. is apt to heat and excoriate the parts about; therefore, warm fomentations, cooling collyria, epu- lotic cerates, and renewing the dreffings as often as (hall be neceffary, with whatever elfe can contribute towards keeping the fkin clean and cool, muft be found ferviceable as well as pleafant, and fhould never be negleded. Sect. iv. ■ The laft ftate which I mentioned of this diforder, is that in which the natural paffage from the facculus to the nofe is fo difeafed as to be quite obliterated, or in which the bones are fometimes found to be caribus. The methods hitherto defcribed have all been calculated to preferve the natural paf- fage, and to derive the lachrymal fluid again throughFISTULA LACHRYMALIS. ^29 through it; in this attempt they are fome- times fuccelsful, but when thej are not, there is no chirurgical means left, but to at- tempt the formation of an artificial Q}ie in its ilead. The upper and hinder part of the facculus Jachrymahs is firmly attached to the os un^ guis, a fmall and very thin bone juft within the orbit of the eye j which bone is fo fituat- ed that if it be by any means broken through, i)r removed, the two cavities of the nofe and of the orbit, communicate with each other, confequently the os unguis forms the parti- tion between the hinder part of the lachry^ mal bag, aud the upper part of the cavity of the nofe ; and it is by making a breach in this partition that we attempt the forma, tion of an artificial paffage for the lachry^ mal fluid. This operation, if confidered merely as a perforation, is no invention of the moderns: the antients undoubtedly performed it; but though it was executed much in the fame manner as it is now, yet it was not done with the fame intention. From the accounts which our anceftors have left us of the difeafe in queftion, it is plain.33° OBSERVATIONS ON THE plain, that they fuppofed it to be always at- tended with a degree of callofity, and often with caries, and that the fureft way to obtain a cure was to lay the bone bare: this they efFe£led either by cauftic or cautery, according to the humour of the fnrgeon, or the fears of the patient : if cauftic applications were ufed, they waited the feparation of the efchar; and if they found, or believed the bone to be al- tered, they applied an actual cautery to it; if the bone to which the iron was applied was the OS unguis, it was too thin to bear much heat, or much preffure, confequently was eafily burnt, or broke through, and by that me^ns an opening was made into the nofe ; a terebra was alfo fometimes made ufe of in- jftead of cautery, and the fame effe£t produced thereby By * Oculo et caiteris junftis partibus bene obtedlis, os ferra- mento adurendum ell vehementius: quod fi jam carie vexatum eft, quo craflior huic fquama abfcedat, quidam adurentia im- ponunt. C ELS us. Cum ifto pulvere in veritate fere mortificabam omnes fiftulas curabiles, et cum cauterio ferreo, aut seneo—fafta mortifica- tione tali totius carnis ufque ad os, cum pulvere aut unguento fuperdiftis fuperpone mortificato- butyrum et efchara afpice, & li fuerit os corruptum cauteriza ipfum ufque ad ejus profundum. GuL., de Saliceto. PofteaFISTULA LACHRYMALIS. By each of thefe methods, a paflage beino- made from the facculus lachrjmalis into the nofe, a cure was fometimes accidentally ob-r tained ; but the cautery was applied, either to deftroy the fuppofed callofity, or to defqua- mate a caries; and the terebra, either for the fame reafon, or to make a paffage for the dif- charge of matter, which lodged, and as they thought, hindered the healing of the fore; for as they were not acquainted with the na- tural paflage of the lachrymal fluid, it would be abfurd to fuppofe, that by means of this perforation they intended the formation of an artificial one. Callofity and caries were their two charaaeriflics of the difeafe; the diiTolu- tion of one, and the exfoliation of the other, were all they had in view from the ufe of either cauflic or cautery, and the perforation Pollea fi homo fuerit delicatus, per iftud foramen mittatur Canellus ferreus vel sneus fubtilis ufque ad profundum fi pote- ris,^ & per ipfum canellum ferrum candens immitte & fiftuls radices decoque : at fi timuerit Ignem immittatur pillula de un- guento ruptorio. Rolandus. Offe detedlo ferrum imprime calidum fupra ipfum, & ipfum cauterium mediocriter comprimendo, pottea imple totum vul- nas cum oleo rofarum mifto cum vitello ovi. Lanfranc. of333 OBSERVATIONS ON THE of the OS unguis was either accidental, or made merely for the difcharge of matter \ - Fabritius ab Aquapendente, who in general copies Paulus, fpeaks of the perforation as meant only to make a depending orifice for matter, " Poll carunculae & loci excifionem, terebra humorem aut pus in nares derivarint." Fab. ab Aqjjapendente. Gul. de Saliceto, and indeed many other of the ancient writers, fpeak of ufing both cautery and terebra to the purpofe of deriving the matter and fanies which lodge in the fac, into the nofe; and, by making a depending orifice, to procure a firni bafis to heal on. " Afpice os, & fi fuerit corruptum cau- «' teriza ipfum ufque ad ejus profundum, & concavitatem cum «' cauterio punftuali, & perfora ipfum ad aliam partem, ejus ^' ut fanies per nafum fluat, deinde incarnetur et confolidetur." Gul. de Saliceto. \ Indeed the formation of an artificial palTage for the lachry- mal fluid could make no part of the intention of thofe who were not riglitly acquainted with the natural one. Paulus mentions perforation with the terebra as the praAice of fome in his time, but from what he fays, it is plain he did not praftice it himfelf, or think it neceflary, and that he re- garded it only as a method of making a depending orifice ; his words are, " Quod fi jam carie vexatum eft, ferro candenti, acuto, ac in cufpidem abeunte ^durimus fpongia frigida ma- ^' dente oculo impofita. ** Sunt qui poft carunculas excifionem terebra ufi humorem aut pus in nares derivarint; nos autem fatis habuimus eouf- " que folum ferramentis ad iEgylopem accommodatis adurere f ut fquama abfcederet.'' Paulus .^GiNE.TA. ' See alfo Fab. ab Aqjjapenden-te. Indeed,FISTULA LACHRYMALIS. ^33 Indeed, if we attentively confider what the old writers have left us on this fubjedl, it will appear, that though they knew that a paflage into the nofe was fometimes a confe- quence of their ufe of the terebra and cautery, yet the operators had no very accurate knowledge of the parts they made fo free with ; no precife idea of the bone on which their inftruments were applied, or through which they pafled; nor of the place mofl immediately proper for fuch application of them : fometimes they perforated the os un- guis very properly, fometimes the cautery or terebra was thrufl: into the bony channel of the natural nafal dudl, , and fometimes they were applied to the nafal procefs of thfe maxilla fuperior: the direction given by mofl of them to rafp the bone (fcalpris abradere) and to imprefs the cautery with fome force, that the bone may be fooner exfoliated, (ut citius fquama abfcedat) plainly prove, that either they were not aware of the tender ftrufture of the os unguis, or that they did not intend to apply their inftruments to it: if the former was the cafe, the, perforation was accidental; if the latter, they muft have often done much more harm than good; that is,334 OBSERVATIONS ON THE is, they muft have burned and deftroyed un- neceflarily, parts which have httle or nothing to do with the difeafe; and by fuch treat- ment of them muft have much oftener pre- vented, than accomphfhed a cure The intention of the prefent praditioners in making this perforation is different from that of our anceftors ; but it is more rational, and founded upon the nature and ufe of the parts concerned in the difeafe: it is to form and maintain a new artificial paffage from the lachrymal bag into the nofe, when the natu- ral one can no more be rendered ufeful, and without any view to any thing elfe: this, I fay, is the aim of them all; but though they are perfedly agreed in their intention, yet = Pctrus de Marchetti, though perfedlly fenfible that the os unguis was often broken through by the cautery, yet infifts upon it, that it ferved no other purpofe than to haften exfolia- tion. " Praeterquam quod hujus perforationis non alius fit *' ufus quam ut os perforatum aut inuftum citius abfcedat. Ob- ".fervandum tamen non efle perforandum os nifi prsfentc " maxima ipfius corriiptione, fola fiquidem ejus fuperficie cor- " rupta aut alterata fat fuerit partem ]a;fam abradere." Petr. de Marchetti. And Mr. Verduc, a very modern writer, is alfo of the fame opinion, " Le meilleur remede pour amorter I'acide qui caufe " la carie, c'efl: de paiTer legerement un cautere aduel fur I'os " fans le percer." 6 theyFISTULA LACHRYMALIS. 335 they are not fo vvith> regard to the iiiflrument which they ufe, fome flill continuing the acftnal cautery, others ufing other different inftruments. The antients preferred the cautery, for reafons which have ah'eady been alfigned; but fince the lymptoms of callofity and caries have been found to be very infrequent, and the OS unguis has been perforated folely with a,view to make an artificial paffage into the nofe, the cautery has with many lofl much of its antient credit, and other inftruments have been fubftituted in its place, which give lefs pain at the time of uiing, and leave lefs deformity afterward. But though many have laid afide the hot iron, yet it ftill has its advocates, who prefer it to every other inftrument, and who have therefore endeavoured to obviate its inconve- niences: they have direfted that the cannula through which it pafles be made of a conical form, and fo large at its lower end, as that they fhall not touch each other; they have ordered this cannula to be wrapped round with wet rag, at the time of ufmg it; they have placed a check upon the top of the iron to prevent its point from going too far, and have33^ OBSERVATIONS ON THE have been particular in direding us to with- draw it as foon as it is got through. But notwithftanding thefe and every other caution, the cautery gives great pain at the time of ufing; it lengthens the attendance, and moft commonly produces unneceflary de- formity even in the hands of the moft dex- terous ; not to mention the horror occafioned by thrufting a hot iron into the corner of the eye. When the inconveniences arifing from the life of this inftrument, even in the beft hands, are important, it may be eafily gueffed what they muft be in thofe of the clumfy and ig- norant ; and therefore, unlefs fome real ad- vantage attends it, it ought certainly to be fo difcouraged, that no one may attempt to re- vive it. Let us then fee with what intent it has been ufed by thofe who have appeared moft fond of it, and who may fairly be fup- pofed to have beft known how to ma- nage it. The defence made by the wet rag againft the heat of the iron, the difproportioned fizcj and the figure of the cannula, very plainly {hew, that its effedl is defigned to be executed by the point only; and the ^check at the 3 ' ^W^"FISTULA LACHRYMALiSi jj^-i \3pper end as clearly fhews, that that point is defigned to pafs no farther than juft throuo-h tlie bone, while all the ill effedls are occa- fioned by the upper part of the cautery on the €ye-lids and angle of the eye. Now, if it is not defigned to produce any effed on any of the parts through which it paffes down to the bone, but merely to bum through that and the membrana narium, and thereby make an opening into the nofe, I do not fee how it differs from any other perforator of equal fize, except in the mifchief it does to the parts above, to which it fhould do nothing. It does indeed burn the bone and mem- brane, through which it pierces, and thereby prevents the orifice from clofing again imme- diately; and this is certainly the principal end of perforation, by whatever inftrument it IS performed, but it is alfo as certain, that the fame end is obtainable by means lefs mif- chievous and lefs horrrible. Our anceftors had a very plaufible reafon for ufing It: their ideas of callolity and caries always accompanied this difeafe, and autho- nfed them to make ufe of fuch applications as - they thought moft proper in fuch cafes: but - now, when we know that thefe are fvmo- VoL. J. 2 . ^ tomsOBSERVATIONS ON THE toms which very rarely occur, or even if they do, that they are removeable in a much eafien manner, we are no longer vindicated in con- tinuing an alarming and a painful procefs, when we can obtain the fame end by much gentler means ; for whether the membrana narium be burnt through, or divided in any other manner, it is the future method of drefling that opening that muft maintain it, let it be made by whatever inftrument, or in whatever manner it may. , The late Mr. Chefelden was a warm pa- tron of the cautery, took a great deal of pains to prevent it from doing mifchief, and has faid in its defence, that—" other methods *' of curing this difeafe have been much re- " commended, though often unfuccefsful; " but this, well performed, is infallible."^ After fo pofitive an affertion, I am forry to be obliged to fay, that it; is contradided by jnanifold experience; that there have been, many inftances of perfe<3: cures performed without the ufe of a cautery; and that fome of thofe who have been cauterifed by Mr.- Chefelden himfelf have been difappointed in the expedation of one: nor could he, with all the pains he took, prevent the effed of theFISTULA LACttRyMALiSi ^ 2 ilruiTjent the heat of the iron, or leave his patient without a weeping eye. The intention is merely to makfe an open- ing through the os unguis and membrana narium into the cavity of the ilbfe^ arid to treat that perforation in fuch a manner as' thde it lliali rtioft '^rbbably fetltai'n open, and give paffage to the lachrymcll fluid from the punfta, after the external fore is-healed. ■ The extreme thinnefs of the borie renders the pafege of the inftrument very eafy, and if the breach which is made be of'any toler- able fize, I am inclined to think that it never is filled up again by bone, but th^t when it is clofed, it is by the membrane; and there- fore if is the furgeon's bufinefs to make a pretty large opening in the bone, and to pre- vent -its being doled again, by rendering the edges of the membrane on each fide of it callous. To make this opening, many different in- ftruments have been devifed, and ufed; a large ftrong probe, an inflrument like a com- mon gimlet, a curved trocar, &c. &c. each of which, if dexteroufly and properly applied, will do the bufinefs very well; the one ne- creflary caution ^ is, fo to apply whatever m-340 OBSERVATIONS ON THE ftrument is ufed, that it may pierce through that part of the bone which hes immediately behind the facculus lachrymaHs, and not to puih up too far into the nofe, for fear of in- juring the OS fpongiofum behind, while it breaks its way. For my own part, I have always ufed the curved trocar, which has ferved my purpofc well, and. from which I have never expe- rienced any inconvenience: in ufing it the point fhould be turned obliquely downward, from the angle of the eye toward the infide of the nofe; the accomplifhment of the breach will be known by the difcharge of blood from the noftril, and of air from the wound upon blowing the nofe. The moft precife direftion in this part of the operation will be of but little ufe to him who has no idea of the natural ll:ru£^ure and difpofition of the parts concerned, and who ought there- fore to get fuch information as foon as he can :■ but whoever is at all acquainted with this matter, or will attend to the iituation and conne£^ion of the os-unguis, knows that this bone is divided into two parts by a per- pendicular ridge; that the lachrymal fac is- connecSled to all that part which is anterior toVistula lachrymalts. 241 to tMs ridge; and that the pofterlor part of the bone contributes to form the orbit of the eye, and has little or no contieflion with the lachrymal fac: the trocar muft be applied therefore to that part of the bone which is anterior to the ridge, and confequently behind the lachrymal bag ; by the paffage of the in- ftrument all this part of the bone will in all probability be broken, but from which no mifchief will enfue. An attention to the natural fituation of thefe part^ will alfo Ihow the praditioner, that if the point of his inflrument be paffed in a tranfverfe diredion with regard to the nole, the os fpongiofum fuperius will be unneceffarily wounded or broken ; and if it goes in too perpendicular a dire£lion, it may get into the channel of the natural dudl, and - Its point will be flopped by bearing againft that part of the maxilla fuperior which con. tributes to the formation of that channel. It has been objeded to the trocar, that it may break the os unguis to fome diftance from the place where its immediate point is fixed : to which I can only anfwer, that I have performed the o^^ration a great number of times, and never yet have feen any in6on- 3 veaicnce. OBSERVATIONS ON THE venicnce to arife from it: indeed a total re- moval pI" ^ fmall piece of the bone would be a thing rather to be wifhed for than avoided; if we may reafon by analogy, it feems to be a neceffary requifite toward preferving a future paflage; for we very well know, in a caries - of the bones forming the roof of the mouth, that they are fometimes bare for a large com- pafs, and by cafting off leave a confiderable aperture into the nofe; yet, in many cafes, when the virus is removed, and the: habit re- cruited, that opening will fo contract as not to fuffer a fmall quill to pafs where you might have introduced your finger, nay often will quite clofe; and therefore though the open- ing made in the OS unguis may poffibly in fpite of all endeavours be again clofed up, yet a free breach in it feems to be the mofi: likely means to prevent it; and upon this principle I have always turned the perforator round very freely whenever I have ufed it; have never feen any mifchief from it, and do attri- bute the fuccefs I have had with it, in fome meafure to this method of ufing it. As foon as the perforation is made, a tent of lint Ihould be introduced, of fuch fize as to fill the aperture, and fo long as to pafs through 6 itFISTULA LACHRYMALIS. 343 it into the cavity of the nofe : this fhoiild be pertnitted to remain in two, three, or four days, till the fuppuration of the parts renders its extradion eafy; and after that a- frefh one fliould be paffed every day, until the clean granulating appearance of the fore makes it probable that the edges of the divided mem- brane are in the fame ftate. The bulinefs now is to prevent the incarnation from clof- ing the orifice, for which piirpofe the end of the tent may be moiftened with fpir. vitriol, ten.; or a piece df lunar cauftic fo included in a quill, as to leave little riiore than the ex- tremity naked, may at each drelhng, or every other, or every third day be- introduced, by which the granulation will be repreffed, and the opening maintained: and when this has been done for fome little time, a piece of bou gie of proper fize, or a leaden cannula may be introduced inftead of the tent, and leavino- off all other dreffing, the fore may be fuffered t©: eontraa as much as the bougie will per- mit, which fhouM bfe of fuch length, that orieT'extremity of it may lie level with the fkrn'.in the <:brner of the eye, and the other be within the noie. 2:4 The344 OBSERVATIONS OJf THE The longer time the patient can be pre- vailed upon to we^r. the bougie,, the more likely will be the continuance of the opeipng; and when it is withdrawn, the external ori- fice fhould be covered only by a fuperficial pledget or plafter, and fufFered to heal under moderate preffure.. There is another method which has been much recommended by fome French writers to prevent the doling of the opening in the os unguis:. which is, to introduce a cannula either of gold or filver, or lead into the aper-. ture, and to permit the fore to heal over it, fufFering the cannula to remain, or to come away by the nofe. For my own part I cannot fay any thing to it, having never had occafion to try it; the c^fes of this kind which I have had under my diredion, having generally fucceeded under fome of the methods already mentioned;- which methods will frequently prove fucceff- ful, if the furgeon is clear in his attention, purfues it fteadily and properly, and refrains from doing too much ; though I muft agaia ' repeat what I have faid before, viz. that there -is no method of treating this diforder which is 7 infallible.FISTULA LACHRYMALIS, infallible, none that will abfolutely and in all cafes prevent a return, efpecially in fcrophu- lous habits ; yet, when a juft diftinftion is mad'e between thofe cafes which are in their own nature incapable of cure, and thofe which by being improperly treated are not cured, I am inclined to believe, that the number of the former will be found much ilnaller than it js generally imagined to be, \ SOMESOME FEW GENERAL REMARKS ON FRACTURES AND DISLOCATIONS.FRACTURES AND D IS LOCATIONS. No part of furgeiy is thought to be fo eafy to underftan<3, as that which relates to fraftures and diflocations. Every, the moft inexpert and leall: inftrudled pradtitioner, deems him- felfperfeaiy qualified to fulfil this part of the chirurgic art; and the ihajority even of thefe are affronted by an offer of inflrudion, on a fubjea with which they think themfelves already fo well acquainted. This is alfo the opinion of a confiderable part of the people. They regard bone-fetting (as it is called) as no matter of fcience ; as a thing which the moft ignorant farrier may, with the utmoft eafe, become foon and per- feaiy mafter of; nay, that he may receive it from his father and family as a kind of he- ritage. We all remember the great, though •fhort-55° REMARKS ON FRACTURES Ihort-lived reputation, of the late Mrs. Mapp. We all remember, that even the abfurdity and impradlicability of her own promifes and en- gagements were by no. me^ns equal to the ex- pedations and credulity of thofe who ran after her; that is, of all ranks and degrees of people, from the low eft labourer or mechanic, up to thpfe of the moft exalted rank and fta- tioii"; leveral of whom riot only did nol: hefi- tate to believe imphcitly the moft extravagant afiefti<>n^. of an i|norant, illiberal, drunkeriV femak.rfavage j ,:;butfl ,4^Q|ri folkited, her com- pany-;;-ajid-, at lea^^- femied to enjoy her c6n- The defire fcff: health? and; eafe, lifee that of mon^y, ;feems to put all underft-andings, and all men,, upoft a level; the avaricious are duped by ^very bubble; the lame and ther unhealthy by every.!quack. Each party re- ligns his: underftanding ; fwallows greedily, and for a time believes implicitly the moft: groundlefs, ill-fouiided, and delufory pro- mifes ; and nothing; but: lofs and difappoint- ment ever produce conividion. Arts, trades, and manufaftures, are allowed to be learnt, in general, by thofe who have employed a proper quantity, of tirrie and attention in fuch purfuits;ANP DISLOCATIONS. ^JI purfuits ; and it Teems moft Angularly unjuft, as well as 'Uiitrue, to fuppofe that phyfical people are the only part of mankind who are all either fo dull as not to be able to- learn ; or fo profligately wicked, as not to pra£life their art to th(e-.beft of their judgment, and to the greateft poflible advantage to mankind. --Surely there ■ are, and always have been among usi, as: well as in all other ckffes, men truly abki and perfedily honeft; men, who well upderftand the fcie-nce which they pro- fefs; and, who pradtife it not only with- great ability, but with ftridl integrity. I cannot be fuppofed to fay or to mean this as a vindi- cation of every individual. Different {-nen have different powers and capacities. The'- multitude with us, as with all ranks and de- grees (not excepting any) will always be de- ficient. Advancements in knowledge will> always be owing to the ingenuity and induftry of a few, particular people; but fuch advance- ments will always, in due time, more or lefs influence the reft. They have fo done; and' notwithftanding that there remains a great deal yet to be done, to bring furgery to that degree of perfecftion of which it is capable, yet whoever will compare the prefent prac-^ ticeREMARKS ON FRACXURES tice of it with that of a very few years ago^ cannot juftly, or with any degree of candour^ withhold his commeadatioii from his contem^ poraries. I remember, fome years ago, to have heard a judge from the bench tell a jury, that he beheved a country bone-fetter knew full as much, if not more of the matter of his own bufmefs, than any, the moft eminent furgeon in the kingdom. I will not enter into a dif-, quifition concerning the rightnefs of a judge's opinion. Perhaps his lordfliip might very Httle underftand the thing concerning which he decided fo peremptorily; without either injuftice or partiahty, I may certainly fuppofe him to have been a much more able lawyer than furgeon: and I believe it will alfo be allowed, that general reflexions of this kind are, and mufl be the confequences of a. petu- lant attempt to be witty, rather than of con- vidion; and therefore, at beft, are frivolous and idle. But, on the other hand, I am very willing to allow (what indeed I have already allowed) that many parts of furgery are Mi capable of confiderable improvement; and this part perhaps, as much as, if not more than any; it being one of thofe in which a generalAND DISLOCATIONS. general obfervauce of, and rigid adherence to old prefcribed rules, have prevented the ma- * jority of praftitioners from venturing to think for themfelves ; and have induced them to o-o •on in a beaten track, from Vi^hich they might not only fafely, but advantageoufly deviate. • The general doarine, relative to fra£lures, is contained under the following heads, as parts of the treatment of them ; Extenlion. Counter-extenfion. Coaptation, or fetting. AppHcation of medicaments. DeHgation or bandage. Portion. Prevention or relief of accidents. This is the general arrangement of the fubw jea by moft of the vi^riters on it, and a very juft and proper one it is; but notwithftanding the parade of books under thefe various heads, much lefs alteration will be met with, fince the times of Hippocrates, Galen, and Celfus, • than an inquirer might expea, or than the fubjea is capable of. ^' A a I niuft354 REMARKS <5n fractures I mnft defire that what I have faid may nof be mifconftriied. I do not mean that there are not, and have not at all times been men of particular ingenuity, who have deviated from the common methods, and have greatly improved the art; but ftill the common me- thods are the fame^ and the multitude of practitioners religioufly follow them. Let me not therefore be charged with prefump- tion or arrogance, if I fay, that under almoft every of ,the foregoing heads the pradlice is capable of conliderable improvements ; im- provements which would fliow rationality and fenfe in the furgeon, and produce eafe and convenience to the patient. I am aware that fome of my readers may be inclined' to charge me with afFefting to O CD deviate from the commonly prefcribcd rules ; and to contradidl opinions, which a great length of time, and a long fucceffion of writers, have given fanclion to. ' " Qiise " Imberbes didicere, fenes perdenda fateri," is a hard leffon fometimes to human vanity, and what requires fome degree of candour to learn.AND DISLOCATIONS. learn. But, on the other hand, if it was not now and then pradlifed, I know not how fuch an art as furgery (whofe bails is experience) could ever be improved. Our anceflors de- ferve our bed thanks for the affiftance which they have given us ; where we find them to be right, we are obhged to embrace their opi- nions as truths; but impUcit faith is not re- quired from man to man ; and our reverence for our predeceffors mufl not prevent us from ufing our own judgments. Ancient and mo- dern are mere founds, and can fignify nothing m this cafe, unlefs with the former we can. connea an idea of truth eftabhfhed and con- firmed by time and experience, and with the latter, that of demonflrable improvement upon what has gone before. If what I have to urge is not capable of being verified and confirmed by experience, it mufl fink into nothing; but if, upon trial,' It fhallbe found by the majority, (as it has been by me and fome others) to be iwt only true and pradicable, but highly conducive to the eafe and benefit of the affli6led, it ought to have as much weight, though ddiveredV a hving writer, as if it had proceeded-from the remotefl antiquity: its ufe, not its date, A a 2 fhould3'56 REMARKS ON FRACTt/REg fhould give it value. If praftitioners, fince the time of Albucafis, had been contented with his do£lrine, and never had ventured to think for themfelves, furgery had not been what it now is, and its great merit would ftill have confifted in the multiplicity of its hot ironsv In fhort, to fuch as think that we are feldom or never to deviate from the opi- nions and pradlice of thofe who have gone before us, I fhall take the liberty of anfwer- ing in the words of the great Mr. Lockey who fays, " The floating of other men's " opinions in our brains, makes us not one jot the more knowing, though they hap- pen to be true. And beaten tracks lead " thofe whofe thoughts reach only to imita- *' tion," ' Non quo eundum eft„ fed quo ' itur/ Before I enter on the fubje(5l, the reader will give me leave to acquaint him, that it is by no means my intention to write a regular treatife on fradures, although I think the fubjea well deferving of, and even requiring one. I only mean to throw out a few hints, which I hope may prove intelligible and ufe- ful. The firft article, in the general arrange- ment ^1 AND DISLOCATIONS.' ^57 fnent, is exteiifioii; under which may alfo be comprehended the fecond, or coimter-ex- tenlion. In order to accomplilh this, we are di- reified, if the fra»5lure be of the thigh or leg, to place the patient in a fupine poftiire, and the broken limb m a flraight one; then hav- ing the upper part of it held firm and fteady, bj proper affiftants, we are ordered, by means of hands, ligatures, lacs, or even in fome cafes by pieces of machinery, to make fuch an extenfion or ftretching of the limb length- ways, as fhall enable the furgeon to place the ends of the broken bone in as apt, that is, in as even a pofition, with regard to each other, as the nature of the fradure will admit.— This is a fhort defcription of what, in the vulgar phrafe, is called fetting a broken bone; and is mofl: commonly a painful operation to the patient, a fatiguing one to the operator and his affiftants; and what is worfe, is in many inftances found to be inefficacious; at leaft, not fully to anfwer the intention of the one, or the expcdtation of the other \ , Writers « " Inflruments for extenfion are threefold; lirft, the fiir- geon's hands, &c.; fecondly, funes and habens, a fort of A a 3 « bandage35^ REMARKS ON FRACTURES Writersgeneral, aire very preeife and formal "ifi-^'the dire6tions which they have given for the due and proper accomplifhment of this purpofe. They have told us, that the e'xtetifion thould be ffiade flowly and gra- dually ;■ and fhould: be continued till the ends of the bone:are fe;parated from each other fuf- ficiently to admit of the-fra£lure being fet without : riik of breaking off any points or inequalities, and to enable us to place them perfedly. fmooth and even. All this, like many-other--of the'preceptive parts of phyfic and furgery, is very pretty'on papfer, but not often found-to-be pradlicaMe in t:he chamber. ,■ . .... :■ ' f s'l :h'\/ , '. .,r- ** blindage fi):: to pluck .'at, in ordgr for extenfion; thijdiy, " there are orgatia and machinemata, engines u'fed by us, and ""inventedby the ancients." Wiseman. ; . "Jlhe veryjnention of funes, habenje, organa: ?vnd rnachine..r ipat^, implies, a force exceeding that of mere hands. A degree of force, which in a fradlure never can be wanted, if the limb be rightly placed; a degree of .force which muft; in the nature of things,; do .mifchief; aJid a degree of force, whofe whole ^ffeQ., however great, muft ceafe immediately upon its being removed; unlefs the. frafture be particularly and luckily cir- cumftanced. There are not wanting inftances of the mufcles furrounding ^ bad though fimple frafture, having been torn by extenfion, and fpafm and other mifchief thereby produced. See cautions on this fubjcft, laid down by many ol^ writers, partici\larly by Galen and Albucafis, TheAND DISLOCATIONS. 359 The direftion to continue the extenfion until the ends of the bones are at a certain diftance, lengthways from each other, plainly implies a confiderable degree of violence; the limb mull, by fuch force, be not only made longer than its fellow, or than nature ever intended it fliould be, but this procruftian method of lengthening it is ordered to be executed while, the limb is in luch pofition as to put all the mufcles moft on the ftretch, and render them leaft likely to yield to it. Now, not to fay a word of the great probabihty of the points and edges of the fra£ture wounding the fur- rounding mufcles, or of fuch wounds being more painful, or worfe in their confequences, when infiifted on parts thus ftretched, or of the addition that fuch force mufl: make to the laceration already neceflarily ijiade by the frafture; I fay, not to mei|tion a word of all this, can the method itfelf (without confider- ing any accidental, adjund circumftances be pra£lifed in every fradure, or even in the majority of fradures ? Will it be done pro- perly by the rude, the inattentive, and the ignorant? if attempted by fuch, will it not be, is it not, frequently produdive of pain, tj-jmefadion, inflammation, and extravafation; A a 4 which3^0 REMARKS ON FRACTURES which are fet to the account of the nature of the fraanre, and to inevitable neceffity ? and when done ever fo properly, will it, can it, in an obKque or fplintered frafture, anfwer the purpofe it is intended for, or produce ^ more happy coaptation ? Whence arife thefe evils? from whence proceed the difficulty and the fo frec^uent difappointment ? In order to underhand this rightly, let us for a moment confider, what is or ought to be meant by the terms extenfion and counter- extenfion, and why they beconie neceflary : for if the greater part of the pain attending fuch method, and the frequency of difap^ pointment, both to patient and furgeon, ihould be found to arife from this part of the procefs ; and that fuch part can be either difufed without prejudice, or altered with advantage, we ought to think ourfelves happy in having it in our power to correct our error. Neither extenlion, nor counter-extenfion, can ever be neceflary, on account of the mere frafturc, confidered abftraftedly. The broken ends of the bone or bones are of them- selves inadive; and if not aded upon by otherAND DISLOCATIONS, Other parts, they would always reilialn mo- tionlefs. When any attempt is made to put them into motion, they of themfelves can make no poffible rcfiftance; nor can any be made on their part, fave an accidental one arifing from the points of the fradure being entangled with each other; and when they have been once, by the hand of the furgeon, placed properly and. evenly with regard to each other, they would of themfelves for ever remain fo. What then is the reafon why fraflurcd bones always fuffer a greater or a lefs degree of difplacement ? why is a broken Hmb almoft always fhorter than its fellow? what creates the refiflance which we always find in attempting to bring the fraftured parts aptly together? whence^'does it proceed, that when we have done all that is in our power (according to this mode of afting) the ends of the frafture will, in many cafes, become again difplaced, and lamenefs and deformity frequently enfue? In ^hort, what are the parts or powers which* ad on the bones, and which, by fo afting on them, produce all thefe confequences ? Thefe parts are the mufcles, the only moving powers in an animal body. By the adion363 REMARKS ON FRACTURES a£lion of thefe on the bones, all locomotion is performed, and cannot be performed with- out them: and although all bones, whei; broken, are in fome degree difplaced and fhortened, yet it will always be found, that in proportion as the mufcles furrounding, or in connection with a bone, are ftrong or nu- merous, or put into a6lion by inadvertence or fpafm, fo will the difplacement of the ends of fuch bone, when fradlured, be. The even and fmooth polition of the fraftured ends of a tibia, when the fibula of the fame leg is entire and unhurt; that is, when the mufcles there- fore cannot act upon the former; the vifible and imxmediate deformity,' when both the be- fore-mentioned bones are broken nearly in the fame place; that is, when the mufcles can a6t u|)on, and difplace fuch fradlure; the great difficulty frequently met with, in en- deavouring to get a broken os femoris to lie even tolerably fmooth, and to prevent fuch broken limb from being much Ihorter than the other, are, among others which might be produced, fuch ftrong, and irrefragable proofs as need no comment. From the mufcles then, and from them only, proceeds all the difficulty which we meetAND DISLOCATIONS. meet with in making onr extenfion; and by the refiftance of thefe, and of thefe only, are we prevented from being always able to put the ends of a fra6tured bone immediately into the moft apt conta£t. Let us in the next place confider, what it is which gives to a mufcle, or to the princi- pal mufcles of a Hmb, the greateft power of refilling any force applied to them ab externo, in order to draw them out into greater length ; for whatever that is, the fame thino- will be found to be the caufe of the different degrees of refiftance in fetting a fradurq. Does .not the putting the mufcles in a ftate of tenfion, or into a ftate approaching nearly to that of tenfion, almoft neceflarily produce this effed ? or, in other words, does not that pofition of a limb, which puts its mufcles into, or nearly into fuch ' a ftate, give fuch mufcles an opportunity of exerting their greateft power either of adion or of refinance ? This I believe cannot be denied. On the other hand, what is the ftate or pofition of a mufcle which is mofi: likely to prevent it from adting, and to deprive it moft of its power of refinance? or what is that pofition of a limb which, in the cafe of a broken bone, will364 REMARKS ON FRACTURES. will moft incapacitate the mufclcs from acl* ing on, and difplacing it; and in the greateft degree remove that refinance which they have it in their power to make to the attempts for the redudion of fuch fradure ? Is it not obtrious, that putting a limb into fuch por- tion as fliall relax the whole fet of mufcles belonging to or in connedlion with the bro- - ken bone, muft beft anfwer fuch purpofe ? Nothing furely can be more evident. If this be granted, will it not, muft it not follow, that fuch pofture of a broken limb muft be ^ the beft for making the reduction; that is, it itiuft be that in which the mufcle^ will refifti the leaft, and be leaft likely to be injured; that in which the broken bone will be moft cafily fet, the patient fuffer leaft pain in pre-^ fent, and that from which future lamenefs and deformity will be leaft likely to happen. A little attention to what frequently occurs, may perhaps ferve to illuftrate and confirm this dodrine better than mere affertion, What is the reafon why no man, however fuperficially acquaii^ited with his art, ever finds much trouble in fetting a fra£lured os humeri, and that with very little pain, and a very fmall degree of extenfion ? Is it not becaufe / .65 AND DISLOCATIONS. becaufe both patieilt and furgeon concur ia putting the arm into a ftate of flexion; that is, into fuch a ftate as relaxes all the mufcles furrounding the broken bone? and'is it not for the fame rcafon that we fo very feldom fee (comparatively fpeaking of this bone with others) a deformity in confequence of a frac- ture of it ? Let the redudion be attempted with the arm extended from the body, and the difficulty of fetting will be much in- creafed : let the arm be depofited in an ex- tended ftraight pofition, and the fradure will be difplaced and lie uneven. Apply the fame kind of reafoning to the os femoris ; that bone whofe fradiure fo often lames the patient, and difgraces the furgeon. Will it not be more cogent, and more con- clufive, in proportion as the mufcles in con- nexion with this bone are more numerous and ftronger? I would aflc any man, who . has been much converfant with accidents of this kihd, what is the pofture which almoft every perfon (whofe os femoris has been newly broken) puts himfelf into in order to obtain eafe, until he gets proper affiftance ? Do fuch people ftretch out t^eir limb, and place their leg and tliigh ftraight, and reftin.o- on366 REMARKS ON FRACTURES on the calf and heel ? I believe feldom or never. On the contrary, do not fuch people almofl: always bend their knee, and lay the broken thigh on its outfide ? And is not the reafon, why this muft be the mofl eafy pof- ture, obvious ? From want of attention to, or from not iinderftanding thefe few felf-evident prin- ciples, many people permit their patients to fufFer confiderable inconvenience, both prefent and future. It is a maxim univerfally taught and re- ceived, that a fradured limb may be in fuch ftate, as not to admit of the extenfion necef- fary for its being fet; that is, if affiftance be not at hand, when the accident happens ; if they who bring the patient home, do it fo aukwardly or rudely as to bruife and hurt the part; if from drunkennefs, folly, or obftinacy in the patient, it happens that the Hmb is fo difordered that it is found to be much fwollen, inflamed, and painful, it is allowed not to be in a ftate to admit extenfion. This, I fay, is a general maxim, and founded upon very juft principles; but what is the general pra6lice in confequence of it ? It is, to place the limb in an extended, ftraight pofition.AND DISLOCATIONS. pofition, to feCLire it in that, and then by proper means, fnch as fomentation, poultice, &c. to endeavour to remove the tenfion and tnmor. Now if it be confidered, that the fwollen, indurated, and inflamed ftate of the mufcles is the circumftance which renders extenfion improper, furely it muft be ob- vious, that fuch pofition of the limb as necef- farily puts thefe very mufcles in fome degree on the ftretch, muft be a very improper one for the accompHfhment of what ought to be aimed at. Under this method of treatment, the fpace of time which paffes in the removal of the tenfion, is fometimes confiderable; fo confiderable, that a happy and even coapta- tion becomes afterwards impra£iicable: and then this accident, which nine times in ten IS capable of immediate relief, is urged as an excufc for unneceflary lamenefs and defor- mity. ' How then are we to condud ourfelves in fuch circumftances ? The nature of the com- plaint points out the relief. Extenfion is wrong; a ftraight pofition of the thigh or leg is a degree of extenfion, and a ftill greater degree of it in proportion as the mufcles are in fuch circumftances as to be lefs capable of bearing;^68 REMARKS ON FRACTURES bearing it. Change of pofture then mufl be the remedy, or rather the placing the limb in fuch manner as to relax all its mufcles, muft be the moft obvious and certain method of relieving all the ills arifing from a tenfe ftate of them: which change of pofture will be attended with another circumftance of very great confequence; which is, that the bones may in fuch pofture be immediately fet, and not one moment's time be thereby loft; a circumftance of great advantage indeed! for^ whatever may be the popular or prevailing opinion, it is demonftrably true, that a broken bone cannot be too fooil put to rights; as muft- appear to every one who will for a mo- ment coniider the neceflary ftate of the muf- cles, tendons, and membranes furrounding, and the medullary organs contained within a large bone broken and unfet; that is, lying- in an uneven irregular manner. Gan any truth be more clear, than that if the fradure, ten,fion, and tumefadion be fuch that the mufcles cannot bear to be ftretched out in the manner neceflary for fetting the broken bone without caufing great pain, and perhaps bringing on ftill worfe fymptoms, the more the pofition of that limb makes its mufcles approachAm DISLOCATIONS. n^p approach toward a ftate of tenfion, the lefs likely it miift be that fuch fymptoms fhould remit, and the longer it miift be before the wifhed-for alteration can happen ; and confe- quently, that while the accomplifhm6nt of fiicli purpofe is by every other means aimed at, the pofition of the limb ought mo{i cer- tainly to contribute to, and not to counterad It ? In fhort, if the experiment of change of pofture be fairly and properly made, the objeaions to immediate reduftion, from ten- fion, tumor, &G. will moll: frequently be found to be groiindlefs ; and the fra^ure will be capable of being put to rights, as well at ~ firH as at any diftance of time afterward. Extenfion having been made, and the broken ends of the bone having been placed as Imooth and as even as the nature of the cafe will admit, the next circiimftance to be at- tended to is the application of fome medica- ment to tlie limb; particularly to the frac- tured part of it. In this, difoent people adt differently. Some make ufe of an adhefive, or what they chufe to call a roborant plafter; lome, of what is commonly called a cere' cloth ; others apply fpirit. vini with oil, vine- gar, and white of egg; and others the fpirit. ^'^^^ ^' B b ^ mindereri.37<5 REMARKS ON FRACTURES mindercri, the folutioii of crude fal ammoniac in vinegar and water, or fome fuch kind of medicine. To the cerecloth, provided it neither flicks to the Ikin, nor is capable of irritating it, there can be no objeftion; neither can there be any to all the others, except the ad- hefive plafter: that muft for ever be wrono- upon every rational principle. The intention in applying any kind of external medicine to a broken Hmb is, or ought to,be, to reprefs inflammation, to difperfe extravafated blood, to keep the Ikin lax, moift, and perfpirable, and at the fame time to afford fome, thou eh very fmall degree of reftraint or confinement to the fra6lure, but not to bind or prefs; and it fhould alfo be calculated as much as pof- fible to prevent itching, an herpetic eruption, or an eryfipelatous efflorefcence. Adhefiv-e plafters of all kinds, let the compofition of them be what it may, are from this one qua- lity the leaft likely to contribute to any of the good ends propofed, and the moJft likely to be the caufe of the contrary inconveniences, which ought moft carefully to be avoided. They obflrud perfpiration, they heat the fkin, they produce itching,. eruption, and inflammation;AND DISLOCATIONS. inflammation; and if the fradiure be quite furrounded by them, and the limb be from anj caufe ever fo little inchned to fwell, they make a tight, painful, and pernicious ftric- ture, much greater even than a roller, and - lefs likely to relax. At St. Bartholomew's hofpital, we ufe a cerate made by a folution of lytharge in vinegar, which with foap, oil, and wax, is afterward formed into fuch con- fiftence as juft to admit being fpread without warming. This lies very eafy, repels inflammation, is not adherent, comes off clean, and very fel- dom if ever irritates, or caufes either herpes or eryfipelas. But let the form and compofi- tion of the application made to the limb be what it may, one thing is clear, viz. that it fhould be put on in fuch manner, as that it may be renewed and fhifted as often as may be neceffary, without moving the hmb in any manner: it being certain, that when once a broken thigh or leg has been properly put to rights, and has been depofited properly on the pillow, it ought not ever be lifted up or moved from it again without neceffity, until the fraaure is perfedly united; and it is as true, that fuch neceffity will not very often ^ ^ 2 occur.37^2 REMARKS ON FRACTl/RES OGGUf. This may perhaps Teem ftrange to thofe who are accuftomed to roll fimple frac- tures, and confequently to lift them up every three or four days, iu order to renew fuch kind of bandage: but the neceffity of this motion arifes merely from.the kind of bandage made ufe of, and not from any circumftance of the frafture itfelf. That the frequent motion of a fradured Hmb cannot poffibly contribute to the eafe of the patient, will, I fuppofe, be readily admitted ; as I fuppofe alfo it will, that when a broken limb has been once depofited in the beft pofition poiTible, it is impofiible to mend that pofition merely by taking fuch limb up and laying it down again; from whence it mufc follow, that fuch kind of apparatus as neceffitates the furgeon fre- quently to difturb the limb, cannot be lo good as one that does not; provided thelatter will accomplifh the fame kind of cure as the former: the truth of which pofition will ap- pear in the moft fatisfaftory manner to any 'who will take a view of the method in which limple fradures are treated, at the before-men- tioned hofpital. Such application having been made as the furgeon thinks right, the next thino; to: be done is to put on a proper band-.AND DISLOCATIONS. age.—That ufed by the ancients, and by the majority of the prefent praditioiiers, is what is commonly called a roller. This is of dif- ferent length, according to the furgeon*s choice, or as it may be ufed in the form of one, two, or more pieces. Hippocrates ufed three ; Celfus fix • but the prefent people feldorh ufe more than one. By fuch kind of bandage three intentions are aimed at, and faid to be accomplifhed, vi-z. to confine the frac- ture, to reprefs or prevent a flux of humoursi and to regulate the callus : btit whoever will refled: ferioufly ofi this matter will foon be convinced, that although fofne fort of bandage is neceflary in every fimple fraclure^ as well for preferving fome degree of fleadi- nefs to the limb, as for the retention of the applications, yet none, nor neither of thefe " See on this fubjeft Fab. ab Aquapendente, Wifeman, Scultetus, Hildanus, Petit, Du Verney. ' " On applique la premiere fur I'endroit meme de la frac- ture. Son milieu doit repondre au centre. On fait trois " tours circulaires : ce qui fert affermir cet endroit, qui eft l6 " feul, quiaitbefoin d'etre affujetti, comme ctant le feul qui " pent fe deranger, a contenir le fuc nouricier, iff empecher " qu,lnes\chappe trap abondamment Iff 'trap irregulieraneni a " i entour de la frailurei ce qui feroit un cal trcs difforme.'> jDu Vernev, three374 REMARKS ON FRACTURES three ends can be anfwered merely, or even principally, by bandage of any kind whatever: and therefore, if this fhould be found to be true, that is, if it fliould appear that what- ever kind of deligation be made ufe of, it cannot be a principal, but only an acceflbrial kind of affiltance, and that in a fmall decree, and very little to be depended upon, it will follow, that fuch kind of bandage as is moft difficult to be applied with juftnefs and exa£li- tude, fuch as is fooneft relaxed and out of order, fuch as ftands moft frequently in n^ed of renewal, and in fuch renewal is moft likely to give pain and trouble, muft be more im-' proper and lefs eligible than one which is more eafily applied, lefs liable to be out of order, and which can be adjufled without moving the limb. The antient method of applying the roller in cafe of limple fra£lure of the leg or thigh, was to make'*four or five turns round the fradure firfl, and then to continue the band- age upward and downward, until the whole limb was enveloped properly. This was done in this manner with a double view ; to ^ See a particular account of this in Fab. ab Aquapendcnte, and in Serjeant Wifcman, keepAND DISLOCATIONS. 375 keep the broken • ends of the bone in their place, and to prevent the influx of humour. Modern pra£litioners, although they have the fame ends in view, generally begin their band- age from the inferior extremity of the limb, and continue it up to the top. Whether the old or the later method be followed, whether one or more rollers be made ufe of, the whole is executed while the limb is kept by means of the alfiftants in the fame extended pofture in which the coaptation was made, fo that the whole bandage is finifhed before the leg is depofited on the pillow; in the doing all which, if from the tired ftatc of the furo-eon'= or either of his affiftants, or if from the auk- wardnefs, or unhandinefs of any of the par- ties concerned, the true and exad poiition of the limb be at all deviated from, the ends of the bone will again be in fome degree difplaced, and the bandage inftead of being of ufe will become prejudicial, by prefTing hard on the «= The extraordinary length of time ufed by fome in putting a frafture to rights, renders what I have called the tired Jiate of the ajjlftants an objeft of importance. The good pofition of the fradture depends as much or more on them than on the fur- geon. If the affiftant who holds the foot varies from the proper manner, I defy the furgeon to redrefs the frafture without the concurrence of fuch affiftant. B b 4 inequalities37^ REMARKS ON FRACTURES inequalities of th,e fradlure: to whieh let me add, that the roller, efpeeially wheu applied to a leg, if it be not put on with due dexte- rity, that is, if it does not fit perfedly fmootli and even, is the moft unequal and worft kind of bandage in.ufe. Thefe obje(^ions, however juft, are not the leafl to which the roller in the cafe of fimplc fradure of the leg or thigh are hable; for, as I have already hinted, it mufl: in a very fhort fpace of time, even while the parts fur- rounding the fradure are in the moft tender and moft painful ft^te, be renewed, and that more than onee, which renewal cannot be executed without again taking the limb oiF from the pillow, again committing it to the hands of affiftants, and again running a rifk of difplacing the frafture: all which, not to mention the repetition of pain to the patient every time fuch operation is performed, and which muft be at leaft every four or five days, are (as I have already faid) very material objedlions to the roller, even in the moft judi- cious and dexterous hands, and ftill more fo in thofe of the rude and ignorant. The prevention of a flux of humours to a broken limb by bandage, is a common phrafe;AND DISLOCATIONS, phrafe ; but they who ufe it have either no idea at all annexed to it, or a very erro- neous one. If by the points and edges of the broken bone, the mulcles and membranes be un- avoidably wounded and torn, or if the fame kind of mifchief be incurred by the inadver- tence or indifcretion of the patient, or of thofe who aflrfted in getting him home, or from the violence nfed in extending the limb .and fetting the fradure, inflammation mufl be excited, and pain and tumefaaion will be the confequence;. and thefe will continue for fome time in every fradure; but that fpacc will be longer or fhorter in different cafes, and under different , circumftances : evacua- tion, refl:, and a favourable pofition of the hmb, will, and do in general, remove all thefe complaints; but bandage can contribute no-, thing more than by keeping the applications in their proper place; fo far from it, that if the bandage be a roller, it muft by the fre- quent necelfity of its being adjufted, and the frequent motion of the limb, in fome degree counterad the proper intention of cure. The37^ REMARKS ON FRACTURES The old writers are in general very precife as to the numbef of days during which the roller fhould be fuffered to remain without being fhifted; and the number of times which fuch fhifting fhould be repeated within the firft fortnight ^ This exaditude is by no means neceffary; but if the bandage be fuppofed to be of any ufe at all, it is obvious, that it ought to be renewed or adjufted as often as it may ceafe to perform the office for which it is defigned, or whenever it fliall be found to counterad fuch office; that is, as often as it fhall become fo flack as not to con- tain the fradure at all; or whenever the.limb fhall be fo fwollen, that the roller makes an improper degree of ftridure; the former generally occurs every four or five days; the latter is moft frequent within the firft week. In moil: of the writers on the fubje£t of fradures, we alfo find marks or figns laid ^ " Tertio die a deligatione fadla, Hippocrates fafcias re- " folvit, &c. Fafta bona deligatura & pruritu non infedlante, *' a tertio ufque ad feptimum oportet aegrum deligatum deti- *' nere. *' Septlmo mcmbrum rurfus folvendiim, perfundendum aqua " tepida, & ligandum." Fab. ab AciUAPENDENTS. down4 AND DISLOCATIONS. ^yg down for our information concerning the due or undue effeft of the bandage on the limb. They tell us, that when that part of it ^hich is below the termination of the roller does not fwell at all, that the bandage is not fiifficientlj flri6l, and will not retain the fra<5ture; that when the fame part is conlider- ably fwollen, or tenfe, or inflamed, it implies, that the binding is too ftrait; and that a mo- derate degree of tumefadlion is a fign that the deligation is properly executed ^. In confequence of thefe precepts, many praftitioners look more anxioufly after this degree of tumefadion, than after the true and exaft pofition of the hmb; and cannot be 8 See on this Fab. ab Aquapendente, who fpeaks or rather copies the fentiments of Hippocrates and Celfus. " Terminus " in ftringendo debet effe bona laborantis tolerantia : ut dell- " gatum leviter premat, & fic turn contineat & ftabiliat frac- " turam, turn humores exprimat. Sunt etiam alia hujus figna, quae altero die apparent; fi enim aeger eo die quo deligatus fentiat fe valentius ftringi, poftero vero die tumor laxus, *' mollis & parvus appareat, bona eft deligatio, quia jam hu- " mores a parte frafta funt expreffi. Si vero aut nullus tumor~ " aut magnus & durus poftridie in manu vel pede appareat, " pravaeft deligatura; quia ilia non continet, hxc vero nimis arfta efF & inflammationem movet. Id notandum, fafcias " magis flringi debere in parte frafla, quam alibi, ut pars " frada magis illaefa fervetur, ab humorum defluxu." inducedS^O REMARKS ON FRACTURES induced to believe, that any thing can be wrong under this appearance; although, if they would for once affume the liberty of thinking for themfelves, they might be con- vinced, that even this degree of fwelling is wrong; that it implies fome kind of obftruc- tion to the circulation, and cannot ferve any good purpofe; and confequently, that as far as it may be fuppofed to be the effed of band- age, fo far that bandage mufl: be faulty. The third purpofe for which the roller is faid to be ufed, is the regulation and reftraint of the callus. If we were to form our notion of callus by what the generality of writers have faid on this fubjea, we fhould fuppofe, that it was not only a particular juice always ready for the purpofe, but that, if not retrained and regulated by art, it would always flow in fuch quantity, as to create trouble and dd- formity; that there were fpecific remedies for increafmg or decreafmg it; and that it always required the hand and art of furgery to manage it. That the callus is fo hr a par- ticular juice, as that it confifts of whatever is defined to circulate throudi the bones for their particular nourifhment, is beyond all doubt;AND DISLOCATIONS. £ doubt; and that this gelatinous kind of fluid is the medium by which fradures are united, is as true; but that it requires art to manage it, or that art is in general capable of ma- naging and directing it, -is by no means true. That this callus or uniting medium does oftentimes create tumefadlion and deformity, or even lamenefs, is true alfo; but the fault in thefe cafes does not lie in the mere redun- dance of fuch juice; it is derived from the nature of the fra£lure, from the inequality of it when fet, and from the unapt pofition of the broken ends with regard to each other; nor is furgery or the furgeon any otherwile blamable in this cafe, than as it was or was not originally in their power to have placed them better. It is the inequality of the "frac- ture which makes both the real and apparent redundance of callus, and the tumefaction in the place of union. When a bone has been broken tranfverfely, or nearly fo, and its in- equaUties are therefore neither many nor great, when fuch broken parts have been happily and properly coaptated, and proper methods have been ufed to keep them con- ftantly and fteadily in fuch flate of coapta- tion, the divided parts unite by the interven-' tioa382 REMARKS ON FRACTURES. tion of the circulating juice, juft as the foftcr parts do, allowing a different fpace of time for different texture and confiflence. When the union of a broken bone under fuch cir- cumftances has been procured, the place where fuch union has been made will be very little perceptible, it will be no deformity, nor will it occafion any inconvenience. It will indeed be difcoverable, like a cicatrix of a wound in a fofter part; but there will be no redundance of callus, becaufe none will be wanted; neither will there be any neceffity for any particular management on the part of the furgeon, to reprefs or keep it in order: But when a bone has been broken very, obliquely or very unequally, when the parts of a fradure are fo circumflanced as not to admit of exad coaptation, when fuch exad coaptation as the fra<5ture perhaps would have admitted has not been judicioUfly made, when from unmanageablenefs, inadvertence, or fpafm, the proper pofition of the limb has not been attended to or preferved, in all fuch cafes there muft be confiderable inequality of furface; there mufl be rifings on one fide, and depreflions on another; and in fuch cafes the juices circulating through the bone, can- 6 notAND DISLOCATIONS. 383 not accomplifli the union in the fame quan- tity, the lame time, or in the fame manner. The broken parts not being applied exadly to each other, there cannot be the fame apti- tude to unite ; and according to the greater or lefler degree of exaditude in the coaptation, that is, according as the ends of the bones are, or have been placed more or lefs even with regard to each other, will the inconvenience and the deformity be; and ftill moft where the fradlure is not fet at all; but the broken ends of the bone unite laterally, or by touch- ing each other's fides. The reafon of all this is fo obvious, without having recourfe to a particular fpecific juice under the name of callus, that it would be an infult upon the reader's underftanding to explain it farther ^ The periofteum covering every fradure will remain thickened for fome time, and a degree of fulnefs or rifing will be thereby caufed about the place where fuch frafture has been » On the fubjeft of callus, the editor of Du Verney tells a ftory from Galen, and which himfelf feems not to difbelieve, viz. that a callus in a particular cafe was fo redundant as ,to tranfude through the (kin, and to keep the comprefTes conftantly wet. united;3^4" REMARKS ON FRACTURES united ; but time, and the ufe of the miifcles, foon in general remove this. In fhort, this doarine of callus, confidered as a particular kind of juice, and as being hable to great redundance if not prevented by art, has not only milled many people, but has often been made ufe of as a cover to igno- rance and neglea. When lamenefs and de- formity have been the confequences of one or both thefe caufes, more than of the na- ture and circumflances of a frafture, the cal- lus has been found ready at hand to take the blame; and the ideal exuberance of this ce- ment has often been urged as an excufe for real want of knowledge, or for grofs ne- gle£l. The beft and mofl: ufeful bandage for a- fimple fradure of the leg or thigh, is what is commonly knoMqi by the name of the eighteen-tailed bandage, or rather one made on the fame principle, but with a little differ- ence in the difpofition of the pieces. The. common method is to make it fo, that the parts which are to furround the limb, make a right angle with that which runs length- ways under it; inftead of which, if they are tackedAl^t) DtSLOCATlONS. 385 tacked on lb as to make an acute angle, they will fold over each other in an oblique direc- tion, and thereby fit more lieatly and more fecLirely, as the parts will thereby have more connection with and more dependence on each other. In compound fradures, as they are called, every body lees and acknowledges the utility of this kind of bandage preferably to the roller-, and for very obvious and convin- cing reafons, but particularly becaufe it does not become neceflary to lift up and difturb the limb every time it is dreffed, or every time the bandage loofens. The pain attending motion in a compound fradure, the circumftance of the wound, and the greater degree of inftability of parts thereby produced, are certainly very good reafons for dreffing fuch wound with a band- age, which does not render motion necef- Tary ; but I fhould be glad to know what can make it neceflary, or right, or eligible, to move a hmb in the cafe of fimple frafture ? what benefit can be propofed by it? what -utility can be drawn from it ? When a broken bone has been well fet, and the limb well placed, what poffible advantage can arife from moving it? furely none; but on the Vol, I, C c contrary,386 REMARKS ON ..FRACTURES contrary, pain and provable mifchief. Is it not the one great intention, to procure uni- tion ? Can moving the hmb every tw.o .or three days contribute to fuch intention ?. Muft it not on the contrary obJlru£t and retard it ? Is not perfect quietude.-as neceffary toward the union of the bone, in a fimple as in a compound frafture? It is true, that in the one there is a wound which requires to be dreffed, and the motion of the hmb may in general be attended with rather more pain than in the other; but does motion in the fimple fra6lure give eafe, or procure more expeditious union ? Every benefit then which can be fup- pofed to be obtained from the ufe ,of the com- mon bandage or roller, is equally attainable from the ufe of that which I have juft men- tioned, with one additional, and to the pa- tient, mofi: invaluable advantage, viz. that of never finding it neceffary to have his leg or thish once durins; the cure, removed from the pillow on which it has been properly de- ■pofited. In fhort, to quit reafoning and fpeak to fa6l, it is the conftant pradlice at St. Bar- tholomew's, and attended with all poffible fuccefs. We always ufe the eighteen-tailed 3 . bandage;'ANb DISLOCATIONS. 387 bandage ; and never move the limb to renew or adjuft it The parts of the general apparatus for a fimple fradlure, which come nex(: in order, are the fplints. Thefe are generally made of pafteboard, wood, or fome refifling kind of fluff, and are ordered to be applied lengthways on ttie broken limb; in fome cafes three, in others four ; for the more fteady and quiet detention of the fradure. That fplints properly made and judicioufly applied are very ferviceable, is beyond all doubt, but their utility depends much, ou their fize and the manner in which they are appHed. In general pradice, they are made of fuch length, as not to reach either upward or downward, fo far as the roller extends ; not to comprehend either the upper or the lower joint of the broken bone, and to exceed the fradure either way not many inches ; they do not, for example, in the broken leg, comprehend either the joint of the knee, or ' See the different opinions of diffisrent French praditioners,, with their reafons on this fubjeft, in Du Vcrney, Traite des Maladies des Os. C c 2 the3^8 REMARKS ©N FRACTURES the-joint of the ancle, and a£t only on the fradture ^. In this manner of appheation, and of this ^ This is the old dodlrine, and has been almoft univerfally and conftatitly adhered to and followed. Our forefathers, find- ing that fuch fplints as they ufed and applied in their manner excited pain and inflammation, did not ufe, but forbad them until after feven days were paft, and the firft inflammation, as thay thought, was over. After this, they put them on to ftrcngthen the fraflure, as they faid, and therefore made them fhort for that purpofe only, exprefsly cautioning us againft the only method of applying them (in the cafe of a broken leg) in which they can be really ufeful, viz. that in which they comprehend both the knee and ancle. " Ferularum ufus idem eft ac pannorum ad fradlum os con- " tinendum, ut maneat immotum, etiamfi membrum uni^'er- " fum moveatur. " Jubet Hippocrates leves effe ferulas & a:quales & ad ex- " trema refimas, &:c. "Sed & Ire'viores ferulas efl'e pracipit ip/a 'viriffura, nc '* quando cutem proximam tentare valeant eminentem ple- " rumque ob humores receptos, quos fafcia: exturbant. Id *' quoque cavere oportet, ne ad oflium eminentias, quales in ima tibia & fura funt, ferulx pertingant," &c. &c. &c- OKiBASi Vs t^e Fratflurjs. *' Sed hoc tempore (poft feptimum diem) vice plagularum *' oportet ferulas apponere. " His utebatur Hippocrates demum poft feptimum diem; " quia ante feptimum magis urgebat intentio arctnda; inflani- " mationis, quam intentio ftabiliendi frafturam; poft fepti-" " mum autem contra accidit." Fab ab Aqjjapkndekte. lize,and' dislocations. ^gp iize, they are in fafl neither more nor lefs than comprefles, and comprefles made of very bad materials. All the good that ever is, or that can be done by them, when of fuch length and lb applied, might certainly be done in a better manner by a more proper kind of comprefs ; and every difadvantage, which a hard refifting comprefs, injudicioufly applied, is capable of producing, is probable, to refult from them thus ufed. The true and proper ufe of fplints is, to preferve fteadinefs in the whole limb, with- out compreffing the fradlure at all. By the former they become very affiftant to the cu- rative intention ; by the latter they are very capable of caufmg pain and other inconve- niences ; at the fame tirne that they cannot, in the nature of things, contribute to the ftea- - d'nefs of the hmb. In order to be of any real ufe at all, fplints fliould, in the cafe of a broken leg, reach above the knee and below the ancle; fhould be only two in number, and fliould be fo guarded with tow, rag, or cotton, that they ihould prefs only on the joints, and not at all on the fra£lurc. By this they become really ferviceable; ^ c 3 but390 REMARKS ON FRACTURES but a fhort fplint, which extends only a little above and a little below the fradure; and does not take in the two joints, is an abfur- dity; and,, what is worfe, it is a mifchievous abfurdity. By preffing. on both joints, they keep not only them, but the foot flieady; by preffing on the fradlure only, they cannot retain it iu its place, if the foot be in the fmalleft degree difplaced, but they may, and frequently dp occafion mifchief, by rudely preffing the parts covering the fra£lure againfl the edges and inequalities of it. . 1 fuppofe it will be faid, that although ffiort fplints do not of themfelves fuftain and keep fteady the two joints, and confequently the limb, yet that purpofe in the broken leg may be and is fulHUed by junks, fanons, and other contrivances: To which I aiifwer, that then the ffiort fplints are in that cafe of no ufe at all, and had better be laid afide ; they ihould be ufed for no other purpofe, but that of keeping the limb fteady ; and if they dp not anfwer that end^ they are an incumbrance, and multiply the articles in the apparatus for a fraftured leg, very unnecefiarily. In the cafe of a fradured os femoris, if the limbAND DISLOCATIONS. 39I limb be laid in an extended pofture, one fplint (houid certainly reach from the hip to the outer ancle, and another (fomewhat fhorter) ihould extend from the groin to the inner ancle. In the cafe of a broken tibia and fibula, there never can be. occafion for more than two fphnts, one of which ihould extend from above the knee to belovi^ the ancle on one fide, and the other fplint fhould do the fame on the other fide. The manner of applying them, if the limb be depofited in a ftate of flexion, will come under the next article. This, and indeed the moft effential article in the treatment of a fradure is, the pofition of the hmb. Upon the judicious or injudi- cious, the proper or improper execution of this, depends the eafe of the patient during his confinement, and the free ufe and natural appearance of his limb afterward. . If I meant to defcribe, or if I approved (pardon the phrafe) the common method of of placing the broken leg and thigh in a ftraight manner, this would be the place to mention the many very ingenious contri- vances and pieces of machinery, which prac- titioners, both antient and modern', have in- vented for the purpofe of keeping the whole C c 4 limb392 REMARKS ON FRACTURES limb ftraight and fteady, that is, of keeping all the mufcles furrounding the fradured bone conftantly upon the ffcretch, and at the fame time,of preventing any inequality in the union of it, and any fhortening of the limb, in confequence of fuch inequality. But as it is my intention by thefe fheets to inculcate another, and as it appears to me a better difpofition of the limb, in which fuch boxes, cradles, and pieces of machinery are not wanted, nor can be ufed, it is needlefs for me to fay any thing about them. According to this plan, the fradur^ leg and thigh fliould be depofited on the pillow, ■. in the very pofture in which the extenfion was made, and the fradure fet, that is with the knee bent. I have already been fo explicit, or perhaps prolix, on the tenfe and lax flate of the muf-. cles, as depending on pofture, under the head of extenfion, that I {hall fpare the reader, as well as myfelf, a good deal of trouble by re- ferring back to that article. All that is there urged, or that can be urged for making the extenfion, that is, for fetting a fradlure in fuch difpofition of a limb or its mufcles, is equally powerful and conclufive with regard to.AND DISLOCATIONS. to the manner of depofiting and leaving it after it has been fet. Whatever renders re- dudtion ahd coaptation ealy, muft as necef- farily maintaia eafe during the confinement, preferve redlitude of figure, and prevent dif- placeraent. The fame principle mufl ad: on both occafions ; and whether the dodrine be right or wrong, confidered by itfelf, it mufl be equally fo in both circumflances, that is,, in the manner of fetting a frafture, and in the manner of depofiting the limb afterward^ In the cafe of the fraftured os humeri, the only pofition in which it can with any tolerable con- venience to the patient be placed is, with the elbow bent, that very pofition which necef- farily relaxes and removes all the refifiance of ' the furrounding mufcles. Daily experience evinces the utility of this, by our very feldom meeting with lamenefs or deformity after it, Aotwithflanding the prevailing apprehenfion of exuberant callus. Ht has been fald, that the ftralght pofition of a Hmb, by putting the mufcles on the llretch, induces them to contribute to the fecarny of the frafture againll difplacement. If this be the cafe m general, how happens it that thofe bones are always found moft liable to be difplaced wlien broken, and to be moft difficult to keep in their proper place, which are farrounded by the mod, and by the flrongeft mufcles ? ^ The394 REMARKS /ON FRACTURES • The deformity frequently confequent to the fradiire of the (bones of the cubit, parti- cularly that of ;the radius only, will generally, if not always, be found to be in proportion as the mufcles concerned^-in th'e pronation and fupination of the hand happen to be put more or lefs into a ftate of aftion, or tenfion- by the pofition of the limb. In the thigh, the cafe is ftill more ob- vious, as the mufcles are more numerous and ftronger. The ftraight pollure puts the majority of them into aftion, by which aftion that part of the broken bone, which is next to the knee, is pulled upward, and by pafhng more or lefs underneath that part which is next to the hip, makes an inequality 6r rifing in the broken part, and produces a fhortnefs of the hmb. • In the fradlure of both bones of the leg, the cafe is ftill the fame; a ftraight pofition puts the mufcles upon endeavouring to a6l; a moderate flexion of the knee relaxes'them, and, takes; off fuch propenfity"". " In proportion as the frafture fliall happen to be more or lefs obliqae, the truth of this doflrine will, upon experiment, be found to be more or lefs apparent, as w^ll as ufeful. TheAND DISLQGATIONS. ^95 The difpofition, therefor€, of the brokea cubit ought to be that which, by putting the hand into a middle ftate between prona^ tion and fupination, and by bending the.fin- gers moderately, keeps the radius fuperior to the ulna; or in other words, tht palm of the hand fhould be applied to the breaft, the thumb fliould be fuperior, the little finger inferior; and the hand fhould be kept in this pofture conftantly by means of two fplints, which Ihould reach from the joint of the elbow on each fide, and fliould ' be extended below the fingers; or the fame purpofe may be ftill better anfwered by a fimple, neat cortr' trivance of the very ingenious Mr. Gooch of Norfolk ; of which he has given a draught, and which is preferable to a common fpliiit, by its admitting the fingers to be more eafily bent. The pofition of the fradured os femoris fhould be on its outfide, reftino; on the ereat trochanter; the patient's whole body fhould be inclined to the fame fide; the knee fhould be in a middle flate, between perfed flexion and extenfion, or half bent; the lesr and foot lying on their outfide alio, fhould be well fupported by fmooth pillows, and fhould be ratherthe 39^ REMARKS FRACTl/RES rather higher in their level than the thigh ; one very broad fplint of deal, hollowed out and well covered with wool rag, or tow, fliould be placed under the thigh, from above the trochanter quite below the knee ; and another, fomewhat fhorter, fhould extend from the groin below the knee on the infide, or rather in this pofture on the upper fide; the bandage fhould be of the eighteen-tail kind, and when the bone has been fet, and the thigh vi^ell placed on the pillow, it fhould not, without neceffitj, (which neceffity in this method will feldom occur) be ever moved from it again until the frafture is united; and this union will always be accomphfhed in more or lefs time, in proportion as the limb lhall have been more or lefs difturbed. In the fradure of the fibula only, the po- 'fition is not of much confequence; becaufe, by the tibia remaining entire, the figure of the leg is preferved, and extenfion quite un- neceffary; but ftill, even here, the laying * If the pillow on which the broken thl|;h is placed be not too thick, the fplint may with equal advantage be placed under- neath fuch pillow, and in manj'^ cafes this will be found to be the beft manner of ufyig it.AND DISLOCATIONS. ^9? the leg on its fide, inftead of on the calf, is attended with one very good confequence, viz. that the confinement of the knee, in a mo- derately bent polition, does not render it fo incapable of flexion and ufe afterward, as the flraight or extended pofition of it does, and confequently that the patient will be much fooner able to walk, whofe leg has been kept in the former pofture, than he whofe leg has been confined in the latter. In the fradure of both tibia and fibula, the knee fhould be moderately bent, the thigh, body, and leg, in the fame pofition as in the broken thigh. If common fplints be ufed, one fliould be placed underneath the leg, ex- tending from above the knee to below the ancle, the foot being properly fupported by .pillows, bolflers, &c. and another fplint of the fame length fhould be placed on the upper fide, comprehending both joints in the fame manner; which difpofition of fplints ought always to be obferved, as to their length, if the leg be laid extended in the common way, only changing the nominal pofition of them^ as the pofture of the leg is changed, and call- ing what is inferior in one cafe, exterior in the other;39^ REMARKS ON FRACTURES Other; and what is fuperior in one, in the other inferior °. If Mr. Sharpe's fpiints be made ufe of^ there is in one of them a provifion for the more eafy fupport of the foot and ancle, by an excavation= iny and a prolongation of the lower or fibular fplint, for the purpofe of keeping the foot fteady. I hope that I have expreffed mf meaning clearly; I fhould be-very forry-to^be miftaken, becaufe it appears to me t6 'be'a ^matter of fome confequence; and if what I have faid be intelligible, the reader will underilrand from thence, that I mean to lignify that (in my opinion) extenfion will in general be made with more facility, and coaptation more hap- pily executed; that a patient v/ill fuffer a great deal lefs pain during thefe operations, as well ° All writers on this fubjeft agree in giving us cautions about defending the heel, and filling up the hollow from it to the calf of the leg; and this they do on account of the pain, excoriation, and even ulceration, which fometimes attend the llraight pofition, with the limb telling on the heel. Many of them have alfp taken notice of an. accident fome- times attendant on a broken leg, but which really ought to be let to the account of the pofture in which fuch leg is placed, more than to that of the frafture j I mean the Ihrinking or walling of the calf. as' ■ AND DI-SLOCATIONS* 399 as.' during the .jiieceflary confinement for a broken leg or thigh-; . and that both patient and furg€oa will'be lefs likely to be difap- pointedri'i ^"I^^^^^^o^"^ and wi£Ii, that is, that the former will-he lefs liable i^ Jamenefs or deformity, when ,a fraftured thigh of leg has been treated in . the way I have, de-^ fcribed, than in the common one. r . . , - The refinance necefl'arily ma4Q. by the mufcles, joined to the gr-eatinflabili^y of parts in every fpecies of frad:iired leg or _t:h^gh, ex- cept in the few where the boneS: are biokea tranfverfefly, has conftantly exercifpd the in- vention and ingenuity-of pr^aaitioners, in de- vifmg means to prevent inequality in the cal- lus, as it is called, and &ortnefs and deformity ■of the hmb. Our books abound with draughts and defcriptions of machines for this purpofe; hgatures, puUies, leaden weights, and frac- ture-boxes, foconftruded as to overcome and conftantly to refiU'that adion of the mufcles furrounding the broken bone, that natural tendency in them to contraa, which the ex- pended pofition of the hmb neceffarily induces. Every body who has been converfant with matters of this fort knows, that even the befl of thefe various contrivances often prove fuc- cefslefs;A-Od REMARKS ON FRACTURES cefslefs J and every one who will refle6^ tvet fo little may fee why they muft be fo. That they do prove inefFeclual, the number of de- formed legs and fhortened thighs, which are daily met with, evinces ; and that they muft frequently prove fo will be obvious to every one, who willconfider that the effe<5l can hh no longer than the caufe is continued, iinlefs there happens to be fome very favourable cir- cumftance in the fradure itfelf. What I mean is this, when the redudion of the fradure is fet about, the limb' is put into fuch pofition^ that the furrounding mufcles refift the ex- tending force very confiderably, and this in proportion to their ftrength and number: that force is continued and increafed till the muf- cles give way, and the refiftance being over- come, an opportunity is thereby obtained of placing the ends of the fradlure in as apt po- Ution with regard to each other as the nature of it will admit. If the fradlure be of the tranfverfe kind, that is, if the ends of the broken bone be large, and afford a good deal of fpace for conta6l with each other, fuch appo- rtion will contribute a good deal to the keep- ing the limb fteady, and the fracture even ; but if th^ fra£lure be of the oblique kind, if thereAND DISLOCATIONS. 4O1 there be feveral loofe pieces, and confeqiiently neither large contaa: nor inability from the apportion, or if due extenfion has not been made, or could not, or if the ends of the bones have not been judicioufly and properly let, the mufeles will acfl as foon as the exten- fion is relaxed, the fradure will be more or lefs difplaced, according to the nature of it, the limb will be fhortened, the time of union' ' will be prolonged, and the place of it (the callus, as it is called) will be in proportion more 6r lefs unequal. . i fake it for granted that it will be afked, Have -not our anceftors in all times happily redreffed fradured legs and thighs, by the method which they have delivered down to us, and which in the preceding pages I have taken the hberty to objed to ? Have not fuch limbs frequently been rendered as ftraight, as ufeful, and as little deformed as poffible ? I anfwer, moft certainly, yes; it is an un- doubted truth, 'and cannot be denied. But in tny turn, let me be permitted to alk, Whe- ther m the fame method great and even un- furmountable difficulty is not frequently met with ? whether in many cafes the ad of fet- ting, as it is called, is not exceffively painful Vol. I. D d at4-^2 REMARKS ON FRACTtTRES at the time, and produdive of inflammatbn and other difagreeable fymptoms afterward ? and whether, in fpite of all care, of every contrivance, of every fpecies of nnachinery which has yet been ufed, broken thighs and legs are not often, very often, left deformed, crooked, and fliortened, and that merely from theaftionof the mufcles, and the obliquity or lhattered ftate of the frafture ? The fad js , notorious, and the fole queflion is. Whether or no a different difpofition of the parts, pre- venting fuch a6lion and fuch refiftance, will in many inftances prevent thefe evils ? To which, from repeated experience, I anfwer, Yes. If this fhould be found to be the cafe in general, of which I make no doubt that it is, if by this method, many of fuch unfortu- nate cafes, as in the common method of treat- ment difappoint both patient and furgeon, fliould be found in geperal to fucceed fo well as to fatisfy both, it will: prove alll wifh it fhould prove. Superior utility and more fre- quent fucceis are all I contend for. Many people did very well under amputa- tion before the double incifion was pradlifed; but is the double incifion therefore no im- provement ? The operation for the bubono- 4 celeAND dislocations; aqA cele. may be performed with that clumfy in- ftriiment the probe fciffors, But is the biftory therefore hot preferable? A furgeOn may cut off fome ounces, or even poiinds of flefH from a patient's backfide, in order to cure a finus, but is the cure by the fimple divifion of that finus therefore noi eafier or mOre expedi- tious? Neither Of thefe can (I think) be proved, unlefs it can at the farne tirrie be proved, that pain is no evil, confinement not at all irkfome, and that deformity and ele- gance of figure are fynonimdus terms. Let not the reader fancy that I would dare b amufe him with fpeculation; or merely rpecious reafonmg on a fubjed like this. What I have faid k from experience^ repeated ex- perience both of myfelf and of others, for a tonfiderable length of time paft, and on a great variety of fubjeas; from an experience which has perfeaiy fatisfied me, and I think will every man who will make the trial fairly and candidly.—I do not pretend to fay, that by thefe means every kind of broken bone will infallibly and certainly be brought to lie fmooth, even, and of proper length ; if I did, they who are verfed in thefe things would kaow that I faid too much: but I will fay, D d a (what^I 404 REMARKS ON FRACTl/RES (what is fufficient for my purpofe) that k will not only fucceed in all thofe, in which the old method can ever be fuccefsful; but alfo in the majority of thofe in which it is not, nor in the nature of things can. In thofe fortunate cafes, in which either method will do, the old one is fatiguing, inconvenient, and even fometimes offeniive, from the fupine and confined pofture of the patient; whereas that which is here propofed, gives the patient much greater liberty of motion for every pur- pofe either of choice or neceffity; and in many of thofe cafes, wherein the old method proves mofh frequently fo far fuccefslefs, as to leave the limb fhort, lame, or deformed, I fay, in moft of thefe, the propofed method will not be attended with thefe inconve- niences I have P If it were neceffary to add any thing to tht advantages which Mr. Pott has mentioned, arifing from the relaxed poli- tion in fraftures. It might be obferved, that in this fituation patients very rarely fufFer from cramps and fpafms, which are frequently attendant when the limb is laid ftraight, and are both painful and produftlve of mifchief; and I might remark, that people whofe limbs have been fradured by a fall, a kick of a hprfe, or any other accident, are very fubjeft to have their minds fo agitated, that their flecp for many nights is unfound, they continually dri^am of falling, or meeting with fome mifchance. 1AND DISLOCATIONS, 405 I have already faid, that \n moft cafes of broken thigh or leg, the method juft de^ fori bed mlfchance, and they catch and Tpring with an imaginary at- tempt to fave themfelves. When the leg was laid in a Hue with the body, the jerk was infallibly communicated to the fradlure, which gave the patient excruciating pain, and ruined Jiis repofe for the remainder of the night; and in the morning the tedious, procefs of putting it to rights was ne^eflarily re- newed. The involuntary adtions of coughing and fneezing had alfo the fame difagreeable cfFeft. Whoever has been ac- cuftomed to fee fraftured legs lying in the ftraight pofture,'muft be fenfible that thefe circumftances continually occur : iri the relaxed pofition the ftiock is loft in the bended joints of the hip and knee, and the limb is not obliged to move wit;h the body. As Mr. Pott'has given in this treatife fome direftions for placing pillows under ftaftured limbs, it may not be improper JO take notice, that of late years lie was not partial to the ufe of themj I have pften heard him objeft to their being placed between the fplint and the limb. Indeed, in general our in- tentions are better effedled without any. I would take the liberty to recommend, in fraftures of the leg or thigh, fo foon as the bones are fet, and the limb placed in a proper pofition on . a fplint, that it be gently laid oij the bed, pre- yioufly made firm, fmooth, and level. In this manner it lies pn a foundation to be depended on : if a pillow, be placed under fradlured leg, it elevates it above the level of the body, and the thigh remains unfupported ; if another be placed under the ihigh, though it may in fome meafure obviate this inconve- nience, it is very liable to be difplaced. In general, the ele- .yation of the leg, fo far from being necefiary, is prejudicial ; the limb will lie with much more eafe and fccurity when on a ^cvel with the pelvis; the bed therefore cannot be made too . X) d 3 flat.406 REMARKS ON FRACTURES. fcribed will be attended with great fuccefs j but there is one particular p^fe in which its utiUty is ftili more confpiciious; a cafe which, according to jhe. general manner pf treating it, -gives., infinite pain ^nd trouble both to the patient and furgepn, and very frequently ends in the lamenefs and difappointment of the former, and the difgrace and concern of the latter: I mean the fradtujpe of the fibuU at-: tended with a diflocation of the tibia." Whoever will take ^ view of the les of a Ikeletqn, will fee that although the fibula be a very fi-qall and {lender bone, and very in- confiderable in ftrength, when compared with the tibia, yet the fupport of the lower joint of that hmb, (the ancle) depends fo much on this (lender bone, that without it the body flat. If it be thought neceiTary to raifq the limb higher, in order to ferve any particular purpofe, pillows or doable blan- kets may be very conveniently placed under the bed ; by thefe mej^ns a broad fteady bafis will ftill be preferved for the fopport of the fradlured limb. With regard to applying pillows between the limb and the fplint, I muft obferve, that they cannot be thus ufed to advantage, as they take from the proper liability and preffure of the fplint, and give the fradlured ends of the bones too much play. The nearer and clofer the fplints are to the limbj the better, provided they are prevented from galling by the interpofition of fome foft fubftance, fuch' as tow or rag, woult^AND DISLOCATIONS. 407 would not be upheld, nor locomotion per- formed, without hazard of diflocation every moment. The lower extremity of this bone, which defcends conliderably below that end of the tibia, is by ftrong and inelaftic liga- ments firmly conne<5ted with the laft-named bone, and with the aftragalus, or that bone of the tarfus which is principally concerned in forming the joint of the ancle. This lower extremity of the fibula has, in its pofte- rior part, a fuperficiai fulcus for the lodgment and paflage of the tendons of the peronei mufcles, which are here tied down by flrono" ligamentous capful;£, and have their a6lion fo determined from this point or angle, that the fmalleft degree of variation from it, in confcquence of external force, mufl necef- farily have confiderable effe<£l on the motions they are defigned to execute, and confe- quently diftort the foot. Let it alfo be con- fidered, that upon the due and natural ftate of the joint of the ancle, that is, upon the exad and proper difpofition of the tibia and fibula, both with regard to each other and to the aftragalus, depend the juft difpofition and proper adion of feveral other mufcles of the foot and toea j fuch as the gaftrocnemii, the D d 4 . tibialis.408 REMARKS ON FRACTURES tibialis anticus, and pofticus, the flexpr poU licis longus^ and the flexor digitorum pedis Ipngus, as muft appear demonftrably to any man who will firft differ, and then attenT tively confider thefe parts. If the tibia and fibula be both broken, they are both generally difplaced in fuch manner, that the inferior extremity or that conneded with the foot, is drawn under that part of the fractured bone which is connefted with the knee; making by this means a deformed, •unequal tumefadion in the fraftured part, and rendering the broken limb fhortcr than i^ ought to be, or than its fellow. And this i^ generally the cafe, let the frafture be in what part of the leg it may. If the tibia only be broken^, and no ad of violence, indifcretion, or inadvertence be corhmitted, either on the part of the patient pr of thofe who condu£t him, the limb moft commonly preferves its figure and length ; the fame thing generally happens if the fibula only be broken, in all that part of it which is fuperior to letter A in the annexed figure, or in any part of if between its upper extremity, land within two or three inches of its lower one. I haveAND DISLOCATIONS, 40J^ i have already faid, and it will obvioufly appear to every one who examines it, that the fupport of the body, and the due and proper nfe and execution of the office of the joint of the ancle, depend almoft entirely on the perpendicular bearing of the tibia upon the aftragalus, and on its firm connexion with the fibula. If either of thefe be perr verted or prevented, fo that the former bone is forced from its jufl and perpendicular pofi- tion on the afiragalus; or if it be feparated by violence from its conneflion with the latter, the joint of the ancle will fufFer a partial dif- iocation internally'!; which partial diflocation pannot happen without not only a confider- able extenfion, or perhaps laceration of the burfal ligament of the joint, which is lax and weak, but a laceration of thofe flrono- tendinous ligaments, which conned the lower end of the tibia with the afl:ra2;alus and OS calcis, and which conftitute in great mea- fure the ligamentous flrength of the joint of the ancle. This is the cafe, when, by leaping or jumping, the fibula breaks in the weak part • 1 See the figure at the preceding page. already4IO REMARKS ON FRACTURES already mentioned, that is within two or three inches of its lower extrenaity. When this happens, the inferior fradured end of the fibula falls inward toward the tibia, that ex- tremity of the bone which forms the outer .ancle is turned fomewhat outward and up- ward, and the tibia having loft its proper fupport, and not being of itfelf capable of ileadily prefervjng its true perpendicular bear- ing, is forced off from the aftragalus inwards, by which means the weak burfal, or commpn ligament of the joint, is violently ftretched, if not torn, and the ftrong ones, which faften the tibia to the aftragalus and os calcis, are always lacerated; thus producing • at the fame time a perfect fi-adture and a partial diflocation, to which is fojuetinies added a wound 'in the integuments, made by the bone at the inner ancle. By this means, and indeed as a neceflary confequence, all the tendons which pafs behind or under, or are attached to the extremities of the tibia and fibula, or os calcis, have their natural direc-^ tion and difpofition fo altered, that inftead of performing their appointed actions, they all contribute to the diftortion of the foot, and that by tiirning it outward and upward. WhenAND DISLOCi^TlONfl, When this accident is accompanied, as it fometimes is, with a yvound of the intern- ments of the inner ancle, and that made by the protrufipn of the bone, it not infrequently pnd§ in a fatal gangrene, iinlefs prevented by timely amputation, though I have feveral times feen it do very well without. But in its moft limple ftate, unaccompanied with any wound, it is extrenaely troublefome to put to rights, ftill more fo to keep it in order, and unlefs managed with addrefs and Ikill, is very frequently produaive both of lamenefs and ^leformity ever after. After what has been faid, a farther expla- patiori why this is fo, is unneceffary. Who- ever will take even a curfory view of the dif- pofition of the parts, will fee that it muft be fo. By the frafture of the fibula, the -dilata- tion 9f the burfal ligament of the joint, and the alpture pf tholb which fhould tie the end pf the tibia firmly to the aftragalus and os calcis, the perpendicular bearing of the tibia on the aftragalus is loft, and the foot becomes 4iftorted ; by this diftortion the diredion and ^aion of all the mufcles already recited are fo filtered, that it becomes (in the ufual way of l^eatin^ this cafe) a difficult matter to reduce the412 REMARKS .ON FRACTURES the joint, and, the fupport of the fibula being gone, a more difficult one to. keep it in its place after redudlion. If it be attempted with comprefs and ftrifl bandage, the confequence often is a very troublefome^ as well as painful iiiceration of the inner ancle,' which very ulceration becomes itfelf a reafon why fuch kind of preffure and bandage can be no longer^ continued; and if the bone be not kept in its place, the lamenefs and deformity' are fuch, as to be very fatiguing to the patient, and to oblige him to wear a 'fhoe with an iron, or a iaced bufkin, or fomethirig of that' fort, for a great while, or perhaps for life. All this trouble, pain, difficulty, and incon- venience, are occafioned by putting arid keep- ing the limb in fuch pofition as fieceffarily puts "the mufcles into adion, or into a ftate of refinance, which in this' cafe is the fame, This' Gccafions the difficulty irv reduction, and the difficulty in keeping it reduced; this diftorts the foot, and by pulling it outward and'^iipward makes that deformity whicH always'accompanies fuch accident; but if the pofition^bf the limb be changed, if by laying it oh its outfide, with'., the^ knee'modefately b^nt, the mufcles fbi-mirig the calf .of the leg', 8 ^^'^AND DISLOCATIONS. j^t^ and thofe which pafs behind the fibula and under the os calcis, are all put into a ftate of relaxation and non-refiftance, all this diffi- culty and trouble do in general vanifh imme- diately ; the foot may ealily be placed right, the joint reduced, and by maintaining the fame difpolition of the limb, every thing will in general fucceed very happily, as I have many times experienced. Two kinds of fradlure there are, and only two that I can recoiled (relative to the limbs) which do not admit of the bent por- tion of the joints, I mean that of the procef- fus olecranon at the elbow, and that of the patella; in thefe a ftraight pofition of the arm and leg is necelTary; in the former to keep the fraflured parts in contact till they are united, in the latter, to bring them as near to each other as may befl ferve the pur- pofe of walking afterward With ^ Although a ftraight pofition of the limb Is necCiTar^ jfor the 'broken patella, yet this ver^ pofition becomes fo upon the fame principle, as renders the bent pofture moll advantageous in the broken tibia and femur, viz. the relaxation of the muYcles and tendons attached to the fradlured bone. Whoever will for a moment attend to the difpofition of the pieces in a patella, which has been broken tranfverfely, will fee how little neceffary or ttfeful the many contrivances of bandages.4^4' 'Remarks on fractures With regard to the fraaure of the patella^ an opinion has long and generally prevailed^ which feems to mfe to have no foundation in truth, or (when duly confidered) even in probability; it isj that the great degree of ftifFnefs in the joint of thfe knee, which is fometimes found to be the confeqUence of this kind of fraaure^ is owing to^ or pro- duced by, a quantity of callus falling into it from the edges of the broken bone ; and that the nearer the broken pieces are brought to each other, the more likely fuch eonfe- quence is. Every part of this doarine feerns equally abfurd. In the fii-ft place, the fradured bone is by no means capable of fupplying fuch i bandages, firaps, contpreffes, buckles, buttons, &c. to be - found in writers are, efpecially all that part of them which are applied to the inferior fragment. By the adliort of the united tendons of the extehfores inufclei of the leg, the fupcrior fragment is pulled upward and fepa- rated from the inferior, bvit the latter i-emains nearlyi if not abfolutely, where it was before the accident; there is hothing to aft upon it, and therefore it cannot, nor does it hiove. The extenfion of the leg puts the aiifcles attached to the Upper part of the broken bone into a ftate of relaxation, and prevents their afting; and though a fmall comprefs juft above this piece, with a moderate bandage, may be ufeful toward retaining it, yet it is the polition of the leg v/hich mnfi keepi the broken piece downj and efFeft the cure. quantityAND DISLOCATIONS. 41^- quantity of callus as to produce this end, unlefs it may be fuppofed to run from it as Iblder from a plumber's ladle; in the fecond place, if this was the cafe, the mofl likely, and indeed the only probable way of prevent- ing the depofition of fuch juice, mufl be by bringing the broken pieces into clofe contad; and in the third place, there is no authority from the appearance of fuch joints after death, (at leaft as far as my experience goes) to fup- ^ofe this to be the cafe, or to countenance fuch opinion. The caufe therefore of this rigi- dity, which is now and then found to attend the broken patella, muft be fought for elfe- where, viz. in the long reft and confinement of the joint as a means ul'ed by many to pro- cure exad tinion; in mifchief done to the iigament, which is formed by the united ten- dons of the four extenfor mufcles of the le- at the time of and by the frafture; and hi the ^nature of the fradure itfelf, that is, the manner in which the bone lhall happen to be broken. But, be all this as it may, the ha un^ ^oubtedly is, that they walk beft after fuch accident, whofe patella has been broken tranf- verfcly, and that into two nearly equal frag- ments ;416 Remarks on fractures ments ; whofe confinement to the bed ha^ been fhort, that is, no longer than while the inflammation lafted; whole knee, after fuch period, has been daily and moderately moved ;• and in whom the broken pieces are not brought into' exad contadt, but lie at fom© imali diflance from each other \ I cannot * it has been fuggefied to me thaf there is an obfcurity In this palTage, and that Mr. Pott's dodlrine with regard to thp fraftured patella is not clearly underftood ; in confequence of Ivhich his Authority has been quoted for giving motion to the joint foon after the accident, and for keeping the divided part^ of the patella feparate from each other to a great diftance^ Whoever has conceived this to be Mr. Pott's "meaning, has certainly been miftaken, as his praftice differed very materially from it. As the pafTage mentions^ that tlie confineriient need notbe longer than while the inflammation lafts,- the time which is propofed to keep the limb quiet after the accident is perhaps not fufficiently definite, nor expi:efred with Mr. Pott's ufual precifion, as frequently only a fmall degree of inflammation is excitedi particularly in thofe cafes where the knee does not reach the ground, which often happens. Every one eonverfant in buli^ nefs mufl: have feen inftances of this fadl, where the boae is torn afunder by the mere force of the cxte.nfor mufcles; it has happened to a perfon ftanding firm, and reaching for fomething on a high flielf, by which pofture thofe mufcles are put inta ftrong adlion, as muft be evident to any One who will make the experiment; in thefe cafes there is no extepnal injury, and frequently little inflammation folfovVs the fradlure. Are we then immediately to move the limb, and keep the parts of the bone feparate ? Certainly not. Mr. Pott only meant to caution againfl: tooAnd dislocations. - 41^ i cannot take leave of this fubjciSl of fimplc fraitiires, without mentioning a circumftance relative to them, which although, when rightly underflood, is of little or no import- too ftrift and too long confinement; and his cOnflant praflice was, to lay the leg in a perfedlJy ilraight pofture, to elevate the heel, and, by a moderate bandage and comprefsi to bring down the fuperior portion of the patella. In this pofition he ufuaUy kept it near three weeks, after which time he allowed of a fmall degree of motion, which he recommended to be gra- dually increafed. In fraftures of this bone, it is not always in GUI' power to bring the divided parts into contadt, confequently there will be a Ipace, which will be fupplied with ligament- ous fubrtahce, as the olTeous fibres are here fparingly pro- duced. Ih proportion to the diftance between the two parts of the bone, the chord or tendon on which the extenfor mufcles . aft, muft be longer than when the bone is in its perfeft ftate, and the mufcular power muft be proportionally leflened. This fhould certainly be avoided as much as poffible, and can only be avoided by bringing the parts as nearly as may be into con- taft. Unlefs this union be in fome degree preferved, the muf- cles will have too little power on the ligament which is inferred m the tibia, although they contraft to the greateft poffible de- gree; confequently the perfon whofe patella is much elon- gated, is obliged to depend principally on the flexor mufcles of the thigh, and the weight of the leg itfelf, to bring it forward •vin progrefllon; which is performed in a moft aukward manner, and IS found particularly inconvenient in going up and down flairs. If both patellas have been broken, and are in the fame lengthened flate, the perfon is generally obliged to afcend and defcend fideways, Vol. I, E e aace.4l8 REMARKS ON FRACTURES ance, yet by being mifunderftood, becomes irequently of confiderable confequence. I mean, the ufe of the term, rlftng end of a broken bone. By the expreflion, any one unacquainted with thefe things would be inclined to think, that the prominent part of a broken bone rofe, or was elevated from its natural place ; and became by fuch rifing fuperior to the Other part or extremity of the fradlure. This would certainly be the idea of an ignorant perfon, and as fuch would be of little confe- quence ; but by the practice of many, who call themfelves furgeons, it is as certainly their idea alfo, and this renders it a matter of great confequence. Many inftances are pro- ducible, ill which our condudl is in great mea- fure regulated by the language which we ufe. Having no ideas annexed to our words, leads us into abfurdity and unintelhgibility; but falfe ones influence us ftill more, and fre- quently produce very material errors. The fiftula lachrymalis, the fiftula in pe- riniso, and that in ano, are glaring proofs of this; and my prefent fubjed is full as much fo: for upon the erroneous idea annexed to the term r'ljmg end, ftands all the abfurd prac- ticeAND DISLOCATiON§. . .419 tice of comprefs, bolfler, and ftrid bandage in the cafes of fimple fracture^ The truth is, that there is really no r'l/lng end to a broken bone ; I mean, when applied, as the term uftially is, to the leg, thigh, and clavicle. There is indeed a fuperior or pro- minent end or part, and an inferior or de- prefled one, but the former of thefe is in its proper place, from which it cannot by art be moved; and the latter, which is not in its proper place, is very capable by art of being put into it. Perhaps this may to fome appear a mere play of words, a nominal diftindion, with- out a real difference ; but when the influence which a right or wrong idea of this produces on pra6lice is attended to, the confequence will be obvious and ferious. When a collar bone, os femoris, or tibia and fibula are broken, by the adion of the 11 was fome few years ago carried by a furgeon, fmce dead, to fee a contrivance of his own to keep down the rlfing end of a broken tibia. It was fomewhat upon the principle of Petit's tourniquet, and calculated to adt by comprefllon. I told him my opinion freely, but the inventor was wedded to his inven- tion; and the firft fimple fraflure he applied it to, he thereby converted into a compound one, by preffing the bone through the /kin. * ■'^ ^ 2 mufcles,426 REMARKS ON FRACTURES mufcles, by the motions of the patient, and by the mere weight of the inferior part of the arm, thigh, or leg, the fra6lured ends of fuch bones are difplaced, and always difplaced in; fuch manner, that the inequality occafioned neceffarily by fuch difplacement, proceeds from the inferior end of the fradlured bone be- ing retraced or drawn under the fuperior: this produces a tumefaction or'unequal rifingy and the upper extremity of the fraClure is therefore called the rifing end of it. Now the- man who regards this rifing end as that part of the fra(L^ure which has by fuch rifing got out of its place, and not as having accidentally become the prominent part merely by the in- finuation or retraction of the other part under- neath it, will go to work with bolfler, com- prefs, and bandage, in order to bring and keep fuch end down; by which means he will give his patient confiderable pain, and, while he depends on fuch means alone, will moft cer- tainly be fruftrated in his intention and ex- pedlation, the means not being adequate to the propofed end. But the man who looks- on this in the true light, that is, who looks on the fuperior part as being in its proper place, and the inferior as being difplaced by theAND DISLOCATIONS. 421 the weight of the Htnb, and the action of the mufcles, will know, that by the mere por- tion of fuch limb, he fhall be able to remedy- all the inconvenience and deformity, as far as they are by art capable of remedy, with- out the parade or the fatigue of .ufelefs appa- ratus. He will, for example, know that the pro- minent part of a broken clavicle, that part of it which is next to the fternum is jufl: where it fhould be; and that the inferior part, that which is conneded with the fcapula, is out of its place, by being drawn down by the weight of the arm ; and therefore, inftead of loading, as is ufual, the prominent part with quantities of comprefs, which never can do any fervice, he, by a proper elevation of the arm, will bring the lower end upward into -cont^d: with the other; and thereby, with very little trouble, eafily accomplifh what he never can do in any other manner, however operofe. The fame thing v^^ill happen from the fame principles in the leg and thigh : a prominence, or a rifmg end, there always will be, but that rifmg end is never to be brought down by any preflure from comprefs or bandage; the E e 3 fallen422 REMARKS ON FRACTURES fallen or inferior one muft always be brought to it by the proper pofition, of the reft of the limb: this will always remove the in- equality as far as it is removeable, and no« thing elfe can COMPOUND FRACTURES. I USE the term compound fradlure in the fenfe in which the Englifli have always ufed " In a profeffed regular treatife on this fubjeft, it would be right to take notice of what may be called the infortunia or ac- cidental evils, which fometimes accompany even fimple frac- tures ; fuch are, difeafe arifing from injury done to the medul- lary membrane, within the bones, in bad habits ; hsemorrhage, or a fpecies of fpurious aneurifm, from a wound of the interof- feal artery, between the tibia and fibula, or of. either of the carpal arteries: mifchief from the frafture becoming acci- dentally the feat of the crifis of a fever: deficiency of callus, or the accident of the broken bone not uniting : the fraftured limb becoming-the feat of an eryfipelas, terminating in a flough of the common membrane and periofteum: the gelatinous juice or callus, which fliould unite' the frafture, being in fo morbid a ftate, as to produce a kind of caries with exoftofis, inftead of its doing its proper duty, &c. Of all thefe there are examples, but they do not come within the plan which I prefcribcd to myfelf when I began thefe papers. 6 it;AND DISLOCATIONS. 423 it; that is, to imply a broken bone compli- cated with a wound. In this kind of cafe the firfl: objecSt of confi- deration is, whether the prefervation of the fra6lured hmb can, with fafety to the patient's hfe, be attempted ; or, in other words, whe- ther the probable chance of deftrudion, from the nature and circumftances of the accident, is not greater than it would be from the oper- ation of amputation. Many things may occur to make this the cafe. The bone or bones being broken into many different pieces, and that for a confiderable extent, as happens from broad wheels, or other heavy bodies of large furface, palTing over, or falling on fuch limbs; the Ikin, mufcles, tendons, &c. being fo torn, lacerated, and deftroyed, as to render gangrene and mortification the mofl probable and mofl: immediate confequence ; the extre- mities of the bones forming a joint being crufhed, or as it were comminuted, and the ligaments conneding fuch bones being torn and fpoiled, are, among others, fufficient rea- fons for propofmg and for performing imme- diate amputation. Reafons, which (notwith- ftanding any thing that may have been faid to the contrary) long and reiterated experience E e 4 has424 REMARKS ON FRACTURES has approved, and which are vindicable upon every principle of humanity, or chiruro-ic knowledge, --i When a furgeon fayS, .that a limb, whidh has juft fufFered a particular kind of compound fradure, ought rather to be "immediately cut off, than that any attempt fliould be made for its prefervation, he does not mean by fo faying, that it is abfolutely impoffible for fuch limb to be preferved at all events; he is ) not to be fuppofed to mean fo much in gene^ ral, though fometimes even that will be ob- vious ; all that he can truly and> juftly mean is, that from the experience of all time it has been found, that the attempts to pfefefve limbs fo circumflanced, have moft frequently been fruftrated by the death of the patients, in confequence of llrch injury ; and that from the fame experience it has been found, that the chance of dsathi from amputation is by no means equal to that arifing from- fuch kind of fra dure. Every man knows, that apparently def- perate cafes are fometimes cured; and that linibs.fo flattered and wounded, as to render amputation the only probable mtzw^ for the prefervatioii of life, are now and then faved. : I IAND DISLOCATIONS. 425 This is an iincontroverted fa£t, but a fa<fl which proves very httle againft the common opinion ; becaufe every man'of experience alfo knows, that fuch efcapes afe very rare,' much too rare to admit of being made prece-' dents, and that the majority of fuch attempts f^il ^. ''V. h > <:ir.,,\, ; This confideration relative' to amputation is - .r: ::rt ?\)':-\-;'^ ; 's,: .., The haron Van Swieten, wrmng- asmany others have done, that is, theoretically, on furgery, advifes us, in .the cafe of very bad compound fraaures, which may 'moft probably re- quire amputation, to defer the operation, until we heve tried jhe force of antifeptic fomentation and applications of like kind for tivo or three days; and this opinion and advice he builds, ^n fome meafure, on a remarkable fuccefs of La Motte, in a feemingly defperate cafe, of 3 man's leg mafhed by the wheel pf a heavy carriage. That De La Motte's patient efcaped, I make no doubt, be- caufe he has faid fo; but the furgeon fliewed much more ralhnefs in attempting to fave fuch a limb, than he would have done in the amputation of it; the operation would have been the more juftiiiable praftice.—With regard to the baron's advice, to ftay two or three days, I take the liberty to add, that if yon do that, ftay feveral more ; for at the end of that tiine (I mean- two or three days) the patient will have very little chance in- deed from the operation, much lefs than he would have had at the time of the accident. I fhould be very forry to be thought a patron or an advifer of raflinefs or cruelty; but in what I have here faid, I believe I lhall have every man in the profeffion, who has either true humanity or found judgment founded on experience,, on my of4-26. REMARKS ON FRACTURES of the more importance, becaufe it moft fre- quently requires immediate determination ;- every minute> of delay is, in many inftances, tp the patient's difadvantage; and a very (hort fpace of time indeed, frequently makes all the difference between probable fafety and fatality. If thefe cafes in general would admit of deli- beration for two or three days, and during that time fuch circumftances might be expe£led to arife, as ought neceffarily to determine the furgeon in his condud, without adding to the patient's hazard, the difference would be confiderable ; the former would not feem to be fo precipitate in his determination, as he is frequently thought to be ; and the latter, be- ing more convinced of the neceffity, would fubmit to it with lefs relu£lance. But un- happily for both parties, this is feldom the cafe ; and the firft opportunity having been ncgle£led or not embraced, we are very fre- quently denied another. Here therefore the whole exertion of a man's judgment is re- quired, that he may neither ralhly and unne- ceffarily deprive his patient,of a limb, nor, through a falfe tendernefs and timidity, fuffer him to perifh, by endeavouring to preferve luch limb. Some degree of addrefs is alio neceffaryAND DISLOCATIONS." 42/' neceflary upon fuch occafion, in order to con- vince the patient, that what feems to be de- termined upon haftily and with precipita- tion, will not fafely admit of longer delibeK' ation. The hmb being thought capable of preferv^^ ation, the next confideration is the reduftion of the fradure. The eafe or difficulty at- tending this depends not only on the general nature of the cafe, but on the particular difpo- fition of the bone with regard to the wound. If the bone be not protruded forth, the trouble of reducing, and of placing the frac- ture in a good pofition, will be much lefs than if the cafe be otherwife; and in the cafe of protufion or thrufting forth of the bone or bones, the difficulty is always in pro- portion to the comparative fize of the wound, through which fuch bone has pafled. In a compound fracture of the leg or thigh, it is always the upper part of the broken bone which is thruft forth. If the fradure be of the tranfverfe kind, and the wound large, a moderate degree of extenfion will in general eafily reduce it; but if the frafture be oblique, and terminates, as it often does, in a lono- (harp point, this point very often makes its way423 REMARKS ON FRACTURES way through a wound no larger than juft to permit fuch extenfion. In this cafe, the very placing the leg in a ftraight pofition, in order to make extenfion, obliges the wound or orifice to gird the bone tight, and makes all that part of it, which is out of fuch wound, prefs hard on the fkin of the leg underneath it. In thefe circumftances, all attempts for reduction in this manner will be found to be impracticable ; the more the leg is ftretched out, the tighter the bone will be begirt by the w£)und, and the more it will prefs on the ikin underneath. ; ypon this occafion, it is not very unufual to have recourfe to the faw, and by that means to remove a portion of the protrude^ bone, VI will not fay that this is always or abfo^ lutely unneceffary or wrong, but it moft cer-f tainly is frequently fo. In fome few in- ftances, and in the cafe of extreme lharp' pointednefs of the extremity of the bone, it may be, and undoubtedly is right: but in many inftances, it is totally unneceflary. The two moft proper means of overcom- ing this difficulty are, change of pofture of the hmb, and enlargement of the wound. InAND DISLOCATIONS. 429 la many cafes the former of thefe, under proper condu<St, will be found fully lufficient; and where it fails, the latter fhould always be made ufe of. Whoever will attend to the effedl, which putting the leg or thigh (hav- ing a compound fradure and protruded bone) into a ftraight pofition always produces ; that is, to the manner in which the wound in luch pofition girds the bone, and to the in- creafed difficulty of redu£lion thereby in- duced, and will then, by changing the pof- ture of fuch Hmb from an extended one, to one moderately bent, obferve the alteratioa thereby made, in both the juft-mentioned circumftances, will be fatisfied'of the truth of what I have faid, and of the much greater degree of eafe and prafticability of redudiou m the bent, than in the extended pofition ; that is, in the relaxed, than in the Wretched ftate of the mufcles. Redudion being found impradicable, either by extenlion or change of pofture, the obvious and neceffary remedy for this difficulty is enlargement of the wound. This to fome prac1:itioners, who have not feen much of this bufinefs, appears a difagreeable circumftance, and therefore they endeavour to avoid it; but their appre- ^ heniions430 REMARKS ON FRACTURES henfions are in general groundlefs and ill- founded : in enlarging the wound there is neither difficulty nor danger, it is the Ikin only which can require divifion, and in mak- ing fuch wound there can be no poffible hazard. It is needlefs to fay that the divifion fliould be fuch as to render redudion eafy; ,or to remind the pra(Slitioner, that fuch en- larged opening may ferve very good future purpofes, by making way for the extradion of fragments, and the difcharge of matter, floughs, &c. If the bone be broken into feveral pieces, and any of them be either totally feparated, fo as to lie loofe in the wound, or if they be fo loofened and detached as to render their union highly improbable, all fuch pieces ought to be taken away ; but they Ihould be removed with all poffible gentlenefs, without pain, violence, or laceration, without the rifk of haemorrhage, and with as httle pok- ing into the wound as poffible. If the ex- tremities of the bone be broken into fharp points, which points wound and irritate the furrounding parts, they mull be removed ..alfo, ■ , But the whole of this part of the treat- meht,',of,a, compound fradlure fhould be exe- cutedAND DISLOCATIONS. 43I cuted with great caution; and the pra£litioner fhould remember, that if the parts furround- ing the fra<5lure be violated, that is, be torn, irritated, and fo difturbed as to excite g^reat pain, high inflammation, &c. it is exadly the fame thing to the patient, and to the event of the cafe, whether fuch violence be the ne- ceffary confequence of the frafture, or of his unneceffary, and aukward manner of poking into, and difturbing the wound. The great obje(fls of fear and apprehenfion in a com- pound fradlure (that is, in the firft or early ftate of it) are, pain, irritation, and inflam- mation; thefe are to be avoided, prevented, and appeafed by all pofTible means, let every thing elfe be as it may; and although certain things are always recited, as neceffary to be done, fuch as removal of fragments of bone, of foreign bodies, &c. &c. &c. yet it is al- ways to be underftood, that fuch afts may be performed without,prejudicial or great vio- lence, and without adding at all to the rilk or hazard neceflkrily incurred by the difeafe. Reduaion of or fetting a compound /rac- ture is the fame as in the fimple; that is,' the intention in both is the fam.e, >viz. by means of a proper degree of extenfion to obtain as -apt a pofitionREMARKS ON FRACTURES a pofitioii. of the ends of the frafture with regard to each other, as the nature of the cafe will admit, and thereby to produce as perfect and as fpeedy union as poflible. ^ To repeat in thi§ place what has ah-eady been faid under'the head of extenfion, would be tedious and unnece{fary. If the arguments there nfed for making extenfion, with the limb fo moderately bent as. to relax the muf- cles, and take off their power of refiflance^ have any force at all, they mull: have much more when applied to the prefent cafe: if it be allowed to be found very painful to extend,- or to put or keep on the ftretch, mufcles which are not at all or but flightly wounded,, and only liable in fuch extenlion to be pricked and irritated, it is felf-evident that it muft be much more fo when the fame parts are torn and wounded confiderablv: when the ends of the fradured bone have made their way quite through them, divided the ikin, and laid all open to the accefs of the air. Every confequence which does or may be fuppofed to flow from wound, pain, or irri- tation, in confequence of violence, muft ne- ceffarily be much greater, when a lacerated wound, and that made by the bone, is added toAND DISLOCATIONS. 433 to the frafture; not to mention the ills arifmo- from extending or ftretching out mufcles al- ready torn or half divided. One moment's reflection mufl be fufficient to convince any reafonable man: but expe- rience is the only proper teft of all thefe kinds of things. Let this method of treatment then, be faii'ly and properly fubjedled to it; and if the great advantage of the on-e over the other does not appear, that is, if the lefs fenfation of pain by the patient, and the more happy, more perfeft, and more expeditious accompHfhment of his purpofe by the furgeon^ do not determine greatly in favour of relaxed pofition, I am, and have for a confiderable length of time, been greatly miftaken. The wound dilated, (if neceflary) loofe pieces removed, (if there were any) and the frafture reduced, and placed in the beft poffi- ble polition, the next thing to be done is to apply a dreffuig. On this fubjea a great deal has beon faid by writers, particularly by fuch of them as have implicit-, faith in external applications ; but, in order to be able to execute this part of the procefa properly, a man has only to afk. himfelf, 'What are the intentions which, by-- Vol. I. F f anv434 REMARKS ON FRACTITRES :iny kind of drefling to a compound fra6lurc, he means to aim at the accomplifhment of ? And a rational anfwer to this will give him all that he can want to know. The dreHing neceffaryin a compound frac- ture is of two kinds, viz. that for the wound, and that for the limb. By the former, we mean to maintain a proper opening for the eafy and free difcharge of gleet, floughs, mat- ter, extraneous bodies, or fragments of bone, and this in fuch manner, and by fuch means, as fliall give the leafl poflible pain or fatigue, fhall neithei' irritate by its qualities, nor op- prefs by its quantity, nor by any means con- tribute to the detention or lodgment of what ought to be difcharged. By the latter, our aim fkould be the prevention or removal of inflammation,, in order, if the habit be good, and all other circu>mftanGes fortunate, that the wound may be healed, by what the furgeons call the firft intention, that is, without fup- puratiorx or abfcefs; or that not being pra£ti- cable,. that ga^ngrene and mortification, or even very large fuppuration may be prevent- ed, and fuch a moderate and kindly degree^ of it eftabUfhed as may beft ferve the purpofe. of a cure. The firft therefore,, or the dreff- in.2:AND DISJLOCATIONS; ing for the wound, can confift of nothing better, or indeed fo good, as foft dry lint; laid on fo lightly as juft to abforb the fanies, but neither to diflend the wound, or be the fmallef]: impediment or obftrudlion to the dif^ charge of matter. This hnt fhould be kept clear of the edges, and the whole of it fhould be covered with a pledget fpread with a foft eafy digeftive. The times of dreffing muft be determined hy the nature of the cafe; if the difcharge be fniall or nioderate, once in. twenty-four hours will be fufficient; but if it be large, more frequent dreffing will be heceffaryi as well to prevent offence, as ta remedy the inconveniences arifing from a great difcharge of an irritating fharp fanies. ^ The method of treating the hmb, with a view to the prevention of fuch accidents and - fymptoms, as pain, inflammation, and lace- ration of parts are likely to produce, is dif- ferent with different praditioners ; fome tifing from the very firft, relaxing, greafy applications; others applying medicines of Very different nature. Both thefe may be right conditionally, that is, according to dif- ferent circumftances in the cafes, but they ^ ^ catnnot43^ REMARKS ON FRACTURES. cannot be equally fo in the fame circum- ftances. Many pra6litioners are accnftomed to en- velope compound fra6tures ui a foft, warm, relaxing cataplafm from the very firfl:; whe- ther the limb be in a tenfe fwollen ftate, or not. This, if I may take the liberty of fay- ing fo, appears to me to be injudicious. When from negle61:, from length of time pafTed without affiftance, from mifcondu6l or drunkennefs in the patient, from aukward- nefs and unhandinefs in the affiftants, or from any other caufe, a tenfion has taken pofleffion of the limb, and it is become tumid, fwollen, and painful, a w^arm cataplafm is certainly the beft and moft proper application that can be made, and that for very obvious reafons ; the ftate of the parts under thefe circumftances is fuch, that immediate union is impoffible, and nothing but a free and plen- tiful fuppuration can diffipate or remove im- pending mifchief: every thing therefore which can tend toward relaxing the tenfe, fwollen, and irritable ftate of the parts con- cerned, muft neceffarily be right; the one thing aimed at, (plentiful fuppuration) cannot beAND DISLOCATIONS. 4^7 be accompliflied without it. But when the parts are not in this flate, the intention feems to be very different. To relax fwolleii parts, and to appeafe pain and irritation by fuch re- laxation, is one thing ; to prevent inflamma- tory defluxion and tumefadion is certainly another; and they ought to be aimed at by very different means. In the former a large fuppuration is a neceffary circumftance of relief, and the. great means of cure; in the latter it is not, and a very moderate degree of it is all that is required. The warm cata- plafm therefore, although it be the beff appli- cation that can be made ufe of in the one cafe, is certainly not fo proper in the other, as ap- pHcations of a more difcutient kind, fuch as mixtures of fpirit. vini. vinegar and water, with crude fal ammoniac, fpirit. Mindereri, acet. litharg. and medicines of this clafs, in whatever form the furgeon may chufe. By thefe, in good habits, in fortunately-circum- ftanced cafes, and with the affiftance of what ihould never be negiedled, I mean phlebo- ' tomy, and the general antiphlogiftic regi- men, inflammation may fometimes be kept off, and a cure accomplifhed, without large colledions or difcharges of matter, or that ^ 3 conliderable438 REMARKS ON FRACTURES. confiderable degree of fuppuration, which, though neceffary in fome cafes, and almoft unavoidable in others, are and muft be rather promoted and encouraged than retarded or prevented, by warm relaxing applications of ^he poultice kind y. Compound y The principal caufe qf the infl^mn;iation, ^nd the confe- quent bad fymptoms which fo frequently take place in com- pound fraftures, appears to arife from the admillion of air into the wound among the fradlured bones; for we fee that bones may be broken, ligaments and tendons may be bruifed, torn, and wounded in any manner, and will unite, heal, and do well again, like other foft parts, provided no air gains admiffion; but if that is fufFered to enter, it too often lights a fire which the art of furgery cannot quench. The ftimulating influence of air on difeafed cavities, is evident on many occafions; in the pfoas abfcefs matter may be formed and increafed, fo as to make a fwelling of great magnitude ; the patient will not- withftanding continue free from fever : but from the moment it is opened, and air admitted, a heftic fever takes place. Large extravafations of blood will remain in a quiet Hate for any length of time till they are rcabforbed, provided the fkin remains whole; but if an opening is made, and air permitted to enter, a ftimulus is applied, inflammation is excited, and a putrid flough of the fides of the cavity and its contents, will generally be the confequence. Many other inftances might be. adduced, to prove that air, from whatever principle it afts, certainly the great enemy in all thefe cafes. Our firft aim fliould therefore be to prevent it from entering, or, if it has entered, to exclude it; and this may frequently be accom- pliftied by doling the wound as foon as poffible, after the bonesAND DISLOCATIONS. 439 Compound fradtures in general require to be drelled every day; and the wounded parts not fcones are placed in their proper ifttuatlon, and by keepiuig it clofe with flips of flicking plafter; or in fome cafes futures may be employed with advantage; it fhould then be covered with proper drefiings, fuch as dry lint and fedative applications, avoiding every thing greafy. Thefe firft drefiings Ihould not be removed for many days, unlefs a colleftion of matter makes it neceffary to change them. By thefe means the wounds in the foft parts may often be brought to heal by the firlt inten- tion; and thus compound fractures, unattended with the ufual Jong train of evils which Mr. Pott has fo well defcribed, will frequently unite, and give no more trouble than fimple frac- tures. The fortunate termination of the compound frafture in his own I-eg, was probably owing to the air being excluded; but this arofe from the nature of the fradlure, rather than from the manner in which it was treated, as the idea of preventing the firft admiflion of air, in thefe cafes, was not at that time attended to; though, while they were changing their drefiings, by means of lamps and other contrivances, our forefathers endea- voured to corredl its pernicious effbds, which they afcribed to cold. In Mr. Pott's cafe, the faft was, that the bone had made its way through the fkin at a difiance from the fradlure ; fo that, when it was returned into its place, the foft parts clofed, and prevented the air from getting in ; by which means the wound healed by the firft intention I have now under my care a man who had a compound frafture of the leg ; the wound was fmall, eafily clofed, and kept fo by fticking plafter; ' as no bad fymptoms followed, the firft dreffings were fuftered to re- main a fortnight, at the end of which time the wound was found healed, and the bones firm. Had it not been thus treated, on tJie contrary, had the drefiings been removed, and V*^' ^4 the440 REMARKS ON FRACTURES not admitting the fmalleft degree of motion without great pain, perfed quietude becomes as necelTary as frequent dreffmg. The the air fufFered to enter, it is more than probable that the ufual bad fymptoms would have aiifen ; for the danger in compound fradures does not depend on the fize of the wound. If air gets in, a fraall wound is equally bad as a large one, perhaps worfe, by confining the matter after it is colleded. I have mentioned this cafe as it occprs on the inftant; but could adduce many more, in which equal fuccefs has attended this mode of prac- tice. ' ' The benefit arifing from keeping out air, in thefe cafes, was an obfervation I made when very young in the profeffion; and pradice and experience have convinced jne of the trjith of it. 1 was fent for, many years ago, to a perfon who by a ffill ha4 a compound diflopation of the joint of the ancle. The ikin was torn evenly as if it had been divided with a knife; I could pafs my finger Into the cavity of the joint. Being aware of the horrid mifchief which is ufually produced by air being admitted into thefe cavities, I was induced to try what would be the copfequences of its entire exclufion; accordingly I fewed up the wound clofe, with a number of fine flitches, merely pairing them through the edges of the fkin, and then applied proper drefTmg and bandage. The wound, to my great fur- prife, healed by the firft intention, without more inflammation than ufually attends wounds of any other part.. ft may be pro- per to remark, that at the fame time the nlanhad received fo violent a contufion on his back as to render his lower limbs paralytic. How far the want of nervous influence might have been the ca^fe of the fmall degree of inflammation which took place, I cahtiot determine. It is a cafe which will not.be eafily paralleled, and no one can fupppfe that I mean to fay S'4 thatAND DISLOCATIONS. 441 The common bandage therefore (the roller) has always in this cafe been laid afide, and what is called the eighteen-tailed bandage liibftituted, very judicioufly, in its place. Of this I have already fpoken fo largely, as to make repetition unneceffary. Splints, that is, fuch fhort ones as are moft commonly made ufp of in fimple fradures, are by all forbid in the compound, and that for the fame reafon which ought to have pre- vented them from having ever been ufed in the former, viz. becaufe the probable good to be derived from them can be but little; and the probable mifchief is obvious and con- liderable. But although (hort fplints are for many reafons palpably improper, in both cafes, yet thofe of proper length, thofe which reach that this plan will always fucceed in compound fradlures. How- ever, the attempt is worth making in moft cafes, as no detri- ment can arife from it; and if we gain our point, it is a moil important one to the patient, who avoids a tedious confine- ment of perhaps many months, not to mention all the conco- mitant evils. During this healing procefs we {hould endeavour to prevent inflammation from taking place by fedative appli- cations, of which the faturnineare moft efficacious; and by every means, bpth internal and external, which experience fuggelb. 3 from.442 REMARKS ON FRACTURES from joint to joint, comprehend them both, and are applied oji each fide of the leg only, are very ufefui both in the fimple and in the compound fradure, as they may, thus ap- plied, be made to keep the limb more con^ flantly fteady and quiet, than it can be kept without them, With regard to pofition of the limb, I have already been fo explicit, when fpeaking of the firaple fra6lure, that to fay any thing more about it here would be an abufe of the reader's time and patience. The only, or the Hiaterial difference between a fmple and a compound fr&6ture, as far as relates to this part of the treatment, is, that as the parts furrounding the broken bone in the latter are more injured, and confequently more liable to irritation, pain, inflammation, and all their confequences, therefore every me- thod and means, by which the alleviation of fuch fymptoms, and the prevention of fuch confequences can be obtained, is ftill more nec^llary and requifite. Among thefe the pofture of the limb is fo principal a circum- ftance, that without its concurrence every other will be fruitlefs. The points to he aimed at are, the even pofition of the broken partsAND DISLOCATIONS. 443 parts of the bone, and fuch difpofitioii of the mufcles furroLinding them, as is moft fuitable to their wounded, lacerated ftate, as fhall be leaft Hkely to irritate them, by keeping them on the ftretch, or to produce high inflamma-? tion, and at befl: large fuppuration. Thefe, J fay, are the ends to be purfued ; and how piuch the pofition of the hmb does, and inuft necelTarily contribute to the advantage or dif- advantage juft recited, muft be fo obvious tq any body capable of reflexion, that nothing more need be faid about it. At the beginning of thefe (heets, I have faid, that it was not my intention to write ^ regular treatife, but only to throw put a few hints which I hoped might prove ufeful to fuch as have not yet received better informa- tion. The part of my fubje£l at which I ami now arrived, does i^ot indeed admit of much more : a few general precepts are all which a writer can give; the particular method of conducing each particular cafe muft be deter- mined by the nature of that cafe, and by the judgment of the fiirgeon. Every body knows, or ought to know, that thefe cafes, of all others, require at firft the raoft rigid obfervance of the ai^tiphlogiftic 4 • regimen;444 REMARKS ON FRACTURES regimen; thaf pain is to be appeafed, and reft obtained, by anodynes ; that inflamma- tion is to be prevented or removed, by free ,and. frequent .bleeding, by keeping the body open, and by the adminiftration of fuch me- dicines as are beft known to ferve llich pur- .poles.—And that, during this firft ftate or ilage, the treatment of the limb muft be cal- culated, either for the prevention of inflam- matory tumefaction, by llich applications as are in general known by the title of difcu- tients; or, fuch tumor and tenfion havin©- already taken poffeffion of the limb, that warm fomentation, and relaxing and emollient medi- cines are required. If thefe, according to the particular exi- gence of the ca,fe., prove fuccefsful, the con- j'equenceis, either a quiet eafy wound, which fuppurates very moderately, and gives little or no trouble; or a \yound, attended at iirft with confiderable inflammation, and that produc- ing, large fuppuration, with great difcharge and troublefome formation and lodgment, gf matter. If, on the other hand, our attempts do not fucceed, the confequence is gangrene and .mortification. Thefe are the three general events or ter- minationsAND DISLOCATIONS. ^.^^ minations of a compound frafture, ai^id ac* cording to thefe muft the furgeon's condii6l: be recrulated. :s o In the firft inflance, he has indeed nothino- o to do but to avoid doing mifchief, either by his manner of dreffing, or by diffcurbing the Jimb. Nature let alone , will accomplifh her own purpofe ; and art has little more to do than to preferve the due pofition of the limb, and to take care that the dreffing applied to the wound proves no impediment. In the fecond ftage, that of formation and lodgment of matter, in confequence of large fuppuration, all a furgeon's judgment will fometimes be required in the treatment both of the patient and his injured limb. Enlarge- ment of the prefent wound, for the more con- venient difcharge of matter ^; new or counter- openings for the fame purpofe, or for the ex- It is a praftice with fome, from a timidity in ufmg a knifei to make ufe of bolfters and plafter-compreffes for the difcharg? of lodging matter. Where another or a counter opening can conveniently and fafely be made, it is always preferable, th^ comprcfs fometimes afting diametrically oppolite to the inten- tion with which it is applied, and contributing to the lodgment by confining the matter; befide which, it requires a greater degree of prefTure to make it efficacious, than a limb in fuc^ ^circumftances generally can bear. trad ion44^ REMARKS ON FRACTURES tradlion of fragments of broken or exfoliated bone, will ver^ frequently be found neceflary^ and muft be executed. In the doing this^ tare mufl: be taken that what is requifite be done, and no more; and that fuch requifite operations be performed with as little diflurb- ance and pain as poffible; the manner of do- ing bufinefs of this kind, will make a very material difference in the fufferings of the patient. Very contrary, or at leaft very different intentions, feem to me to require the fur- geon's very particular attention in the two parts of this ftage of the idifeafci Previous to large fuppuration, oi" confider- able colled:ions and lodgments of matter^ tumefadlion, induration and high inflamma- tion, attended with pain, irritation, and fever^ require evacuation by phlebotomy, an open belly, and antiphlogiftic remedies, as well as the free ufe of anodynes, and fuch applica- tions to the limb as may mofl ferve the pur- pofe of relaxation. But the matter having been formed and let out, and the pain, fever^ &c. which were fympfomatic thereof, having difappeared or ceafed, the ufe and purpofe of fuch medicines and fuch applications ceafes alfo^