]‘>REAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. EXTRAORDINARY TEA. COOPER COOPER t CO, ARE NOW SELLING QTJITEJ iPHEisro.DynEiq'.A-rj IN' QUALITY. THE FINEST THE WORLD PRODUCES _A_t 3s. a. zpotthstid. AND MAGNIFICENT TEAS At 2s. 6d. and 2s, a Pound, As supplied to Princes, Dukes, Marquises, Earls, Viscounts, Barons, and the County Families of the United Kingdom. Samples and Book about TEA post free on application to COOPER COOPER & CO. CHIEF OFFICE: 50, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON BRIDGE. BRANCH ESTABLISHMENTS: 68, REGENT CIRCUS, % ; WESTBODRNE GROVE, W. DRN, W.C. 22101726593BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. Med K9713 ’lONAL CONDIMENT. CELEBRATED FOR ITS UNEQUALLED FLAVOUR. SUPPLIF.I) TO H.R.H. THE PRINCE OF WALES. TO ENSURE GOOD FLAVOUR ALWAYS USE Keen’s Ground Spices. MACE, CINNAMON, NUTMEGS, CLOVES, CASSIA, CARAWAY, COR!ANDERS. Sold in Canisters weighing from 1 oz. to 1 lb. KEEN, ROBINSON, & BELLVILLE, Xj O 3^ D o ZST..Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 https://archive.org/details/b28116689BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERSBY THE SAME AUTHOR. Third Edition, Crown 8vo, price 8^. THE PYTCHLEY BOOK OF REFINED COOKERY AND BILLS OF FARE. London : CHAPMAN and HALL, Limited.BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS BY MAJOR L AUTHOR OF “the PYTCHLEY COOKERY BOOK. LONDON: CHAPMAN AND HALL, Limited. 1887.CHARLES DICKENS AND EVANS, CRYSTAL PALACE PRESS. SHTUTE Cell VV*’'^'^017160 Cciil No.5. Hunting Luncheons. INTRODUCTION. The “ Pytchley Book of Refined Cookery ” having been so well received by the Public, the Author is encouraged, with some diffidence, to give his ideas of what good Break- fasts and Luncheons should consist; and, although he does not intend to go largely into Ball Suppers, he thinks perhaps a few menus and a few hints on that subject may be useful. He proposes to treat on the various subjects in nine different chapters, giving a certain number of Bills of Fare in each, and at the conclusion of those chapters Receipts for the various dishes will be given. He has divided Breakfasts into three chapters, under the following headings : 1. Breakfasts for Large Parties. 2. Breakfasts for Ladies and Men of Sedentary Habits and Pursuits. 3. Breakfasts for Sportsmen and those of active habits. Luncheons he has divided into five chapters, viz.: ✓ 4. Ordinary House Luncheons.INTRODUCTION. VI 6. Race Luncheons. 7. Railway and Travelling Luncheons. 8. Shooting Luncheons. And one chapter on Ball Suppers: 9. Ball Suppers. His object not being to make a book, but to endeavour to give really useful information, he proceeds at once to his task.CONTENTS INTRODUCTION . BREAKFASTS— CHAPTER I. BREAKFASTS FOR LARGE PARTIES CHAPTER II. BREAKFASTS FOR LADIES, AND GENTLEMEN OF SEDENTARY OCCUPATION AND OF A CERTAIN ACE .... CHAPTER III. BREAKFASTS FOR PEOPLE OF ROBUST CONSTITUTION, SPORTS- MEN, AND THOSE WHO TAKE MUCH EXERCISE . LUNCHEONS— CHAPTER IV. PAGE V I i6 22 ORDINARY HOUSE LUNCHEONS 26vin CONTENTS. CHAPTER V. HUNTING LUNCHEONS 39 CHAPTER VI. RACE LUNCHEONS 42 CHAPTER VII. TRAVELLING LUNCHEONS 5° CHAPTER VIII. SHOOTING LUNCHEONS • 5^ CHAPTER IX. BALL SUPPERS ' • 55 LIST OF RECEIPTS— CHAPTER X. BREADS, ETC. ...... 64 CHAPTER XL TEA, COFFEE, COCOA 68 CHAPTER XII. EGGS AND OMELETS • -72 CPIAPTER XIII. STOCKS, SAUCES 77 CHAPTER XIV. CLEAR SOUPS ^7IX CONTENTS. CHAPTER XV. FARCE STUFFINGS, PICKLE, AND PASTRIES . CHAPTER XVI. FISH AU GRATINS CHAPTER XVII. MEATS, MEAT PIES AND PUDDINGS CHAPTER XVIII. POULTRY AND GAME CHAPTER XIX. SALADS AND VEGETABLES . . . . CHAPTER XX. CAKES, ICES, PUDDINGS, ETC. . PAGE 91 94 104 118 13c 13sBREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. BREAKFASTS. CHAPTER I. BREAKFASTS FOR LARGE PARTIES. This chapter requires consideration. The Author feels sure the sympathetic reader will agree with him that it is a somewhat difficult business to write Bills of Fare which will please twenty different people. If they were all young and healthy, with good appetites and good digestions, nothing would be easier, and the task would be greatly simplified ; but when the fastidious, and that horrible word digestion, have to be taken into consideration, it alters the case altogether. He thinks the reader will agree with him that, as a rule, in England, breakfast is not sufficiently con- sidered ; that a good breakfast is the exception and not the rule, and that one sees either an emharras de richesses in the shape of pounds of mutton chops, beefsteaks, kidneys, and the everlasting (although excellent, if the ' eggs are fresh and the bacon good) eggs and bacon ; or, on the other hand, barely sufficient of the over-night’s repast, hashed or bedevilled, to satisfy half the party, the rest looking ravenously on, like hungry dogs at a bone, or starving panthers at the Zoo; whilst in a few —very few—one sees what the ladies, gentlemen of B 22 BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. sedentary occupations or moderate digestions, sportsmen, and men of active habits like, or rather what likes them. The Author thinks that in a country house, which contains, probably, a sprinkling of good and bad appetites and digestions, breakfasts should consist of a variety to suit all tastes, viz. : fish, poultry, or game, if in season; sausages, and one meat of some sort, such as mutton cutlets, or fillets of beef; omelets, and eggs served in various ways ; bread of both kinds, white and brown, arid fancy bread of as many kinds as can be conveniently served ; two or three kinds of jam, orange marmalade, and fruits when in season ; and on the side table, cold meats, such as ham, tongue, cold game, or game pie, galantines, and in winter a round of spiced beef of Mr. Degue, of Derby. The Author hopes that his ideas of breakfasts for large parties may not be considered too exalted or too extravagant; they need not be so, if the mistress or the chef (in cases where the chef has the entire control) only possesses the rare, although, if comfort is to be ob- tained, the very necessary gift of “common sense.” He cannot understand why England should be so behind- hand in the requirements necessary to the comfort of this meal. In Scotland it is quite a different thing; good breakfasts are the rule, not the exception. Only travel to Scotland, and arrive at Perth Station ; in the refresh- ment room you see it at once: excellent fish, excellent meats, excellent jams, and bread and rolls of all sorts; and so it is in nearly all houses and in many hotels. Punctuality by host and guests should be strictly observed. No cook, however good or careful, can send up broiled fish, cutlets, or kidneys, really well done, if they are to be kept waiting; and if sent up in dishes with a light underneath they get dry, and if in common dishes, cold. One other remark, and the Author has finished his advice for this chapter; it is, that in large houses, where there are many guests and plenty of ser- vants, he most strongly recommends, although it may spoil the sociability of the meal, that breakfast shouldBREAKFASTS FOR LARGE PARTIES. j be served at small tables, and that each guest should order, from a Bill of Fare, sent up to his room when called, what he requires, and name his own time, as at a club or military mess ; or, if preferred, in parties of four or six. The liberty of the subject is less interfered with by this method ; the small breakfast eater is not bored by waiting until the more hearty one is satisfied, or in wondering how much longer, in racing parlance, he can possibly stay. The Author feels sure there are many, especially ladies, who read these lines will remember how frequently they have schemed to avoid sitting out so long a meal; how they have had to put up with everything being cold by coming down very late, and to make every excuse, except the true one, for putting in so late an appearance. Two other excellent reasons suggest themselves for recommending that breakfasts should be served in this manner: firstly, it is more economical ; when twenty people have to be provided for in a house where every- thing is well done, sufficient of each dish for each person should be served, and more than half is frequently un- touched and probably wasted. Secondly, and / think the most unanswerable argument in its favour, and the best of all possible reasons why this meal should not unnecessarily be prolonged, is, that the post in the country generally comes in about this time, and if letters require replies every minute is of consequence to those who are going out on business or pleasure. To save repetition in the Bills of Fare the Author begs to observe that tea, coffee, and cocoa should be served at each breakfast; that brown and white bread should be handed round, and the loaves if cottage be cut straight through, from top to bottom, in eight 'divisions, making sixteen portions; that hot rolls, toast, muffins, fancy bread and buns, and jams and fruits, should decorate the table; and that pepper and salt, a sugar- basin, a cream-jug, and a butter-dish should be within reach of each person.BREAKFASTS FOR LARGE PARTIES. 4 JANUARY. Sole a la Colbert. Devilled Turkey. Sausages aux Truffes. Filets of Beef a la Frangaise. Poached Eggs au Jus. Smelt. Ham Omelet. Dry Curry of Chicken. Mutton Cutlets Broiled. Eggs. Saute of Kippered Haddock. Broiled Kidneys and Bacon. Devilled Pheasant. Hashed Venison. Poached Eggs a la Maitre d’Hotel. Whiting. Bouchees of Eggs au Gratin. Saute of Kidneys. Beefsteak aux Fines Herbes. Buttered Eggs aux Truffes. Cold Meats on Side Table. Pheasants. Game Pie. Brawn. Ham. Tongue. Galantine of Turkey. Round of Spiced Beef.BREAKFASTS FOR LARGE PARTIES. 5 FEBRUARY. Kedgeree of Cod. Devilled Pheasant a la Perry. Broiled Ham. Mutton Chops. Eggs aux Fines Herbes. Broiled Haddock. Omelet aux Fines Herbes. Calf’s Liver and Bacon. Mutton Cutlets. Eggs. Bloaters. Buttered Eggs aux Crevettes. Sausages aux Pommes. Devilled Pheasant. Poached Eggs and Bacon. Broiled Sole. Kidney Omelet. Hashed Mutton. Broiled Chicken, and Ham and Eggs. Eggs. Cold Meats on Side Table. Pheasants. Ham. Tongue. Galantine of Guinea Fowl in Aspic. Spiced Round of Beef.6 BREAKFASTS FOR LARGE PARTIES. MARCH. Turbot au Gratin. Savoury Omelet. Dry Curry of Duck. Broiled Kidneys a la Maitre d’Hotel. Eggs. Broiled Herrings. Buttered Eggs aux Tomates. Sausages and Broiled Turkey. Filets of Beef, Potato Chips. Poached Eggs a la Creme. Broiled Salmon. Bouchees of Eggs aux Champignons. Veal Cutlets and Bacon. Devilled Chicken. Eggs. Broiled Cod. Omelet au Jus. Croquettes of Chicken. Mutton Chops, Potato Chips. Eggs aux Fines Herbes. Cold Meats on Side Table. Ballotines of Guinea Fowl in Aspic. Ham. Tongue. Stewed Brisket of Beef. Game Pie. Pig’s Face.BREAKFASTS FOR LARGE PARTIES. 7 APRIL. Coquilles of Salmon. Devilled Sausages. Stewed Kidneys. . Mutton Cutlets. Bouchees of Eggs aux Truffes. Sole a la Colbert. Kidney Omelet. Dry Curry of Mutton. Broiled Ham. Eggs. Broiled Whiting. Dry Curry of Salmon. Devilled Chicken. Mutton Cutlets. Poached Eggs. Twice Laid of Cod. Omelet aux Fines Herbes. Saute of Kidneys. Beefsteak, Potato Ball. Eggs. Cold Meats on Side Table. Ham. Tongue. Galantine of Guinea Fowl in Aspic. Boned Turkey. Silver Side of Beef.BREAKFASTS FOR LARGE PARTIES. 8 MAY. Broiled Mackerel. Ham Omelet. Stewed Kidneys. Broiled Guinea Fowl. Buttered Eggs aux Tomates. Saute of Kippered Haddock. Bouchees of Eggs aux Pointes d’Asperges. Sweetbread Cutlets. Devilled Chicken. Eggs. Trout. Plovers’ Eggs in Aspic. Lamb Cutlets. Broiled Ham. Eggs aux Fines Herbes. Coquilles of Salmon. Buttered Eggs aux Trufifes. Dry Curry of Veal. Mutton Cutlets. Plovers’ Eggs. Cold Meats on Side Table. Cold Salmon. Pigeon Pie. Ham. Tongue. Quail in Aspic. Cold Lamb. Plovers’ Eggs. Stewed Beef.9 BREAKFASTS FOR LARGE PARTIES. JUNE. Broiled Salmon. Prawns. Croquettes of Chicken. Beefsteak. Eggs. Filets of Trout. Saute of Kidneys. Broiled Pigeons. Eggs and Bacon. Bouchees of Eggs au Gratin. Kedgeree of Salmon. Omelette, Pointes d’Asperges. Devilled Chicken. Mutton Cutlets. Eggs. Broiled Sole. Salmon Cutlets a PIndienne. Croquettes of Chicken. Filets of Beef Devilled. Eggs a la Creme. Cold Meats on Side Table. Rabbit Pie. Young Chicken. Ham. Tongue. Rolled Beef. Galantine of Chicken.lO BREAKFASTS FOR LARGE PARTIES. JULY. Trout. Prawns. Devilled Chicken. Broiled Mushrooms on Toast. Poached Eggs. Broiled Mackerel. Coquilles of Salmon. Broiled Duckling. Omelet aux Tomates. Eggs au Gratin. Broiled Salmon. Omelet aux Crevettes. Saute of Mushrooms. Broiled Ham and Chicken. Eggs. Broiled Whiting. Dry Curry of Lobster. Broiled Pigeons. Omelet aux Champignons. Poached Eggs. Cold Meats on Side Table. Galantines of Veal, Ham, Tongue, Chicken. Cold Beef. Pig’s Face. Rabbit Pie.BREAKFASTS FOR LARGE PARTIES. II AUGUST. Fried Sole. Dry Curry of Prawns. Saute of Kidneys. Broiled Chicken. Eggs. Grayling. Salmon Cutlets. Broiled Grouse. Broiled Mushrooms. Bouchees of Eggs aux Tomates. Sole a la Colbert. Buttered Eggs aux Tomates. Kidneys and Bacon. Devilled Chicken. Poached Eggs. Broiled Salmon. Omelet au Jus. Broiled Grouse. Broiled Ham. Broiled Mushrooms. Eggs. Cold Meats on Side Table. Grouse. Ham. Pig’s Face. Chicken Pie. Pot-pourri. Stewed Beef.12 BREAKFASTS FOR LARGE PARTIES. SEPTEMBER. Grayling. Bouchees of Eggs aux Champignons. Broiled Partridge and Ham. Mutton Cutlets. Eggs. Sautd of Kippered Haddock. Omelet aux Crevettes. Devilled Chicken. Hashed Venison. Eggs. Fried Filets of Sole. Buttered Eggs aux Tomates. Calf’s Liver and Bacon. Devilled Partridge a la Perry. Broiled Mushrooms. Poached Eggs. Kedgeree of Turbot. Croquettes of Chicken. Broiled Goose. Hashed Mutton. Eggs aux Fines Herbes. Cold Meats on Side Table. Ham. Cold Beef. Partridges. Galantine of Veal.BREAKFASTS FOR LARGE PARTIES. 13 OCTOBER. Smelt. Fish Omelet. Devilled Pheasant. Beefsteak a la Fran^aise. Eggs. Broiled Sole. Bouchdes of Eggs aux Crevettes. Saute of Kidneys. Devilled Partridges. Poached Eggs and Ham. Kedgeree of Bloaters. Buttered Eggs aux Truffes. Dry Curry of Chicken. Mutton Cutlets. Eggs. Filets of Cod. Savoury Omelet. Devilled Pheasant a la Perr}^ Sausages. Poached Eggs au Jus. Cold Meats on Side Table. Game Pie. Ham. Ballotines of Pheasant. Rolled Beef. Cold Pheasant.14 BREAKFASTS FOR LARGE PARTIES. NOVEMBER. Fried Whiting. Stewed Kidneys. Filets of Beef a la Frangaise. Devilled Partridges. Eggs. Sprats. Sausages aux Pommes. Veal Cutlets. Broiled Ham. Poached Eggs au Jus. Broiled Haddock. Kidney Omelet. Devilled Chicken. Hashed Venison. Eggs. Fried Filets of Sole. Coquilles of Shrimp. Broiled Kidneys and Bacon. Sweetbread Cutlets. Beefsteak aux Fines Herbes. Poached Eggs a la Maitre d^Hotel. Cold Meats on Side Table. Spiced Round of Beef Ham. Tongue. Pot-pourri of Game. Cold Pheasants.BREAKFASTS FOR LARGE PARTIES. 15 DECEMBER. Broiled Mackerel. Curry of Rabbit. Filets of Beef a la Frangaise. Broiled Partridges. Poached Eggs and Flam. Filets of Cod. Saut^ of Kidneys. Devilled Pheasant a la Perry. Calf’s Liver and Bacon. Eggs. Sole a la Colbert. Dry Curry of Pheasant. Broiled Duck. Mutton Cutlets. Eggs au Gratin. Turbot au Gratin. Devilled Turkey. Sausages aux Truffes. Broiled Mushrooms. Mutton Cutlets. Eggs aux Fines Herbes. Cold Meats on Side Table. Spiced Round of Beef. Ham. Tongue. Galantine of Turkey. Patd de Foie Gras. Pheasants. Brawn. Game Pie. cCHAPTER II. BREAKFASTS FOR LADIES, AND GENTLEMEN OF SEDEN- TARY OCCUPATION AND OF A CERTAIN AGE. It will be only necessary for the Author to say a very few words as a preface to this chapter, and those to explain why he has classified the ladies with men of such occupation and age. Ladies as a rule are much wiser, much more abstemious, and capable of practising much more self-denial in the feeding business than the male sex ; the Author frequently admires the way in which they pass dish after dish, which men seldom, very seldom, have the wisdom or strength of mind to pass ; they rarely, too, eat meat for breakfast. He thinks, therefore, that it is wiser and kinder to put the men out of temptation, and although he may raise a hornets’ nest about his ears he must say that men who take no exercise, or who are over fifty years of age, should, if they wish to preserve their health, and avoid what the Author is told is not a particularly pleasant pain to endure, viz. the gout, never eat meat more than once a day; and for this reason he strongly advises them to adhere to the sort of breakfasts he recommends, and join the ladies in their abstemiousness and self-denial. All meat will therefore be excluded from the Bills of Fare given for the fair sex, and gentlemen who come under the above-named categories. Bread, of all sorts, buns, jams, fruits, and table requisites must be supplied in the same manner as for large parties in Chapter I., which it would be mere repetition to give again.17 BREAKFASTS FOR LADIES. P.S.—If any lady objects to the Author’s remarks on her self-denial, or to be classified with such very proper classes of men, or would prefer a more substantial meal, let her refer to Chapter III., where he trusts she may find what she requires. The Author does not intend to give so many “ Bills of Fare” in this and the following chapters as in the preceding one; he thinks that if he gives a certain number of Bills of Fare, the cook will be able to follow the example given, making selections from Breakfasts in previous chapter. Filets of Sole. Ham Omelet. Poached Eggs and Ham. Fried Smelt. Buttered Eggs and Purde of Haddock. Sausages. Saute of Kippered Haddock. Broiled Chicken. Poached Eggs a la Maitre d^Hotel. Bloaters. Saute of Kidney. Bouchdes of Eggs au Gratin. c 2BREAKFASTS FOR LADIES. Broiled Cod. Chicken Croquettes. Eggs- Coquilles of Cod. Broiled Pheasant and Ham. Eggs au Gratin. Sole a la Colbert. Kidney Omelet. Eggs and Bacon. Broiled Herrings. Devilled Chicken. Poached Eggs. Coquilles of Salmon. Sausages aux Pommes. Eggs.19 BREAKFASTS FOR LADIES. Eggs. Fried Whiting. Dry Curry of Chicken. Bouchees of Eggs aux Champignons. Broiled Haddock. Broiled Partridge. Buttered Eggs aux Trufifes. Fried Trout. Stewed Kidneys. Poached Eggs a la Creme. Broiled Sole. Sweetbread Cutlets. Omelet aux Tomates. Broiled Salmon. Roast Larks.BREAKFASTS FOR LADIES. 20 Broiled Mackerel. Prawns. Broiled Duckling. Eggs. Kedgeree of Turbot. Roast Quail. Bouchees of Eggs aux Truffes. Omelet aux Crevettes. Devilled Turkey. Boiled Eggs. Turbot au Gratin. Buttered Eggs aux Pointes d’Asperges. Broiled Ham. Kedgeree of Bloaters. Sausages aux Tomates. Eggs aux Fines Herbes.BREAKFASTS FOR LADIES. 21 Fried Sole. Broiled Pheasant a la Perry. Buttered Eggs aux Champignons. Cold Meats on Side Table. Ham. Tongue. Poultry. Game Pies. Galantines. Ballotines. Brawn. Plovers’ Eggs. Game.CHAPTER HI. BREAKFASTS FOR PEOPLE OF ROBUST CONSTITUTION, SPORTSMEN, AND THOSE WHO TAKE MUCH EXERCISE. To such fortunate classes the Author can only say, it matters little what they eat or drink, if their digestion is as good as their appetites ; he strongly recommends them, however, to drink tea, coffee, or cocoa, and not claret or beer. The Author has always heard that the late Sir Tatton Sykes frequently breakfasted on apple tarV^ washed down by “home-brewed ale.” Chacun d son goilt. He doubts very much if it was frequently, if there is any truth in the legend at all; and although he feels the greatest respect for the memory of this most worthy and ex- cellent of baronets, he has not put such a Bill of Fare amongst his menus. Any one caring to try such a break- fast must cater for himself. The same rules, as to bread, fruits, jams, and table requisites, as in the preceding chapters should be observed. To avoid repetition the Author has only given twelve Bills of Fare, as a sort of guide to cooks what to send up. Selection from “ Breakfasts for Large Parties ” can easily be made in the winter, and in the summer meat really is not necessary. Broiled Cod. Devilled Beefsteak. Broiled Mushrooms. Omelet au Jus.BREAKFASTS FOR ROBUST CONSTITUTIONS. 23 Fried Sole. Saute of Kidneys. Devilled Chicken. Broiled Ham. Poached Eggs a la Creme. Smelt. Buttered Eggs, Puree of Haddock. Broiled Mutton Cutlets. Boiled Eggs. Sole a la Colbert. Dry Curry of Lobster. Mutton Chops. Eggs aux Eines Herbes. Kedgeree of Eish. Broiled Kidneys and Bacon. Sausages. Poached Eggs.4 BREAKFASTS FOR ROBUST CONSTITUTIONS, Broiled Salmon. Devilled Turkey. Sausages aux Truffes. Savoury Omelet. Broiled Herrings. Dry Curry of Chicken. Hashed Mutton. Eggs a la Maitre d’Hotel. Fried Whiting. Bouchees of Eggs aux Crevettes. Devilled Goose. Sausages aux Pommes. Turbot au Gratin. Mutton Cutlets, Broiled Partridge and Mushrooms. Buttered Eggs aux Tomates.BREAKFASTS FOR ROBUST CONSTITUTIONS. 25 Fried Trout. Dry Curry of Prawns. Hashed Venison. Boiled Eggs. Broiled Mackerel. Kidney Omelet. Filets of Beef a la Frangaise. Poached Eggs au Jus. Broiled Haddock. Buttered Eggs aux Pointes d’Asperges. Devilled Chicken a la Perry. Broiled Ham and Eggs.LUNCHEONS. CHAPTER IV. ORDINARY HOUSE LUNCHEONS. How to commence this chapter the Author hardly knows, this being the ladies’ meal. Oh that some fairy would assist him in arriving at their ideas, their wishes, their desires ! Sorry will he be if his estimate of their powers, his Bills of Fare are not to their taste. Breakfast not being their meal, and dinner in many cases only very slightly patronised, nature demands, if health is to be retained, that one meal in the day should be a substantial one. Why they select the middle of the day for this repast, perhaps some fair but kindly critic may enlighten the Author before his Second Edition, and so assist in giving the real reason. Being at present somewhat in the clouds as to their taste, the Author will endeavour to give his ideas of what good ordinary luncheons should consist of; he is totally opposed to the system of a hot dinner of three courses in the middle of the day, he thinks an entree, a roast, and a pudding quite sufficient, and on that basis will his Bills of Fare be drawn up; and as this meal so nearly resembles dishes used at dinner, he must request his readers to refer to the “ Pytchley Book of Refined Cookery,” for instructions how to serve any dishes in the Bills of Fare not given in this work. Vegetables and salads are omitted from the Bills of Fare for the same reason as stated in the “ Pytchley Cookery Book,” page 5, viz.; that the cook will be much better able to select each morning what are ready for use, than he possibly could, climates and seasons making so great a difference.”27 ORDINARY HOUSE LUNCHEONS. JANUARY. Pulled and Broiled Turkey. Roast Loin of Mutton. Cabinet Pudding. Capilotade of Pheasant. Filets of Beef a la Chateaubriand. Apple Charlotte. Curry of Rabbit. Braised Beefsteak. Apple Tart. Civet of Hare. Mutton Cutlets ^ la SoubiseJ Londonderry Pudding.28 ORDINARY HOUSE LUNCHEONS. FEBRUARY. Saute of Chicken. Leg of Mutton. Beet and Potato Salad. Compote of Pears. Croquettes of Chicken. Braised Filets of Beef. Plum Pudding. Mutton Cutlets en Papillote. Chicken Nouilles au Parmesan. Cabinet Pudding. Sweetbread Cutlets. Braised Duck aux Navets. Orange Tart.ORDINARY HOUSE LUNCHEONS. 29 MARCH. Calf’s Head aux Trufifes. Braised Beefsteak. Custard Pudding. Dry Curry of Veal. Irish Stew. Rhubarb Tart. Lobster Cutlets. Haricot of Mutton. Compote of Orange. Lamb Cutlets en Concombre. Chicken au Macaroni. Souffle Espagnole.ORDINARY HOUSE LUNCHEONS. 30 Orange Tart. APRIL. Fricassee of Chicken. Veal Cutlets, Puree of Mushroom. Baba. Salmon Cutlets a I’lndienne. Fore-quarter of Lamb. Apple Fritters. Stewed Sweetbread. Leg of Mutton and Salad. Bavarois of Rice. Calf’s Liver and Bacon aux Fines Herbes. Hashed Mutton.31 ORDINARY HOUSE LUNCHEONS. MAY. Curry of Young Rabbits. Beefsteak Pie. Rhubarb Tart. Croquettes of Salmon. Braised Neck of Mutton. Gooseberry Tart (Cold). Lambs’ Sweetbreads^ Stewed. Beefsteak i 1’Anglais. Riz a I’Imperatrice. Filets of Pigeon Farci en Concombre. Mutton Cutlets, Purde of Tomatoes. Tartlets of Gooseberry a la Creme. D32 ORDINARY HOUSE LUNCHEONS. JUNE. Lamb Cutlets in Mint Aspic. Duckling and Green Peas. Gooseberry Fool. Mayonnaise of Salmon. Hashed Venison. Cherry Tart. Filets of Duckling a I’Orange. Cold Beef and Salad. Compote of Strawberries a la Creme. Lamb Cutlets aux Pointes d’Asperges. Pigeon Pie. Gooseberry Tart.ORDINARY HOUSE LUNCHEONS. 33 JULY. Saute of Rabbit aux Champignons. Cold Lamb and Salad. Raspberry and Currant Tart. Mutton Cutlets a la Maintenon. Chicken au Cresson. r Eclairs of Chocolate. Cutlets of Sweetbreads aux Petits Pois. Roast Neck of Venison. Sussex Pudding. Veal Cutlets en Papillote. Roast Ducklings. Black Currant Pudding. D 234 ORDINARY HOUSE LUNCHEONS. AUGUST. Rissolettes of Chicken. Stewed Brisket of Beef. Macedoine of Fruits. Filets of Beef, Sauce Bdarnaise. Rabbit Pie. Raspberry and Currant Tart. Mutton Cutlets au Parmesan. Pig’s Cheek and Broad Beans. Roast Chicken. Apricot Tart. Dry Curry of Prawns. Filets of Beef a la Jardiniere. Grouse. Greengage Tart.35 ORDINARY HOUSE LUNCHEONS. SEPTEMBER. Croquettes of Grouse. Filets of Veal. Blackberry Pudding. Beefsteak aux Fines Herbes. Partridge. Compote of Apricots a la Creme. Rissolettes of Partridge. Braised Neck of Mutton. Apple Tart. Civet of Hare. Roast Loin of Mutton. Partridge. Compote of Peaches a la Creme.36 ORDINARY HOUSE LUNCHEONS. OCTOBER. Hashed Duck aux Olives, Roast Fillet of Beef. Peach Tart. Mutton Cutlets, Puree of Mushrooms. Partridge Pie. Mulberry Pudding. Capilotade of Goose. Roast Pheasant, Compote of Greengages a la Creme. Saute of Pheasant aux Champignons. Braised Filets of Beef. Sussex Pudding of Blackberries.ORDINARY HOUSE LUNCHEONS. 37 NOVEMBER. Rissolettes of Pheasant. Hashed Venison. Apple Charlotte. Chicken Cutlets a la Tartar. Loin of Mutton. Damson Tart. Mutton Cutlets a la Soubise. Roast Pheasant. Apple Dumplings. Dry Curry of Pheasant. Beefsteak Pudding. Tartlets of Apricots a la Creme.38 ORDINARY HOUSE LUNCHEONS. DECEMBER. Curry of Chicken. Irish Stew, Mince Pies, Capilotade of Game. Filets of Beef a la Fran^aise, Trifle. Croquettes of Hare. Braised Chicken au Parmesan. Chocolate Souffle. Salmis of Pheasant, Roast Beef. Plum Pudding, Plum Pudding Sauce.CHAPTER V. HUNTING LUNCHEONS, In hunting countries the Author has frequently heard the remarks : “ What can we take with us for lunch; Which sandwich is the best; Should it be made of bread or toast; or, What is the best meat to use ? ” He can also hear others exclaiming: “ What is the man thinking of ? we don’t want to eat out hunting ; We can’t be bothered by carrying packages; We hate our saddles turned into pack-saddles,” etc. Wait, my friends, until the clock of some neighbouring village strikes two, and you see a friend produce a pie full of jelly, or a cutlet covered with aspic, made by the receipts given in this book. The Author’s experience is that hunting makes people as hungry as other sports, unless one happens to fall into a real good forty minutes, then he admits that thirst pre- dominates over hunger; as, however, such lucky days only come perhaps half-a-dozen times in the year, hunger, as a general rule, predominates over thirst, and for this reason he has thought it advisable to give to this subject some consideration. The result of his consideration is this: first, that of -• all abominations sandwiches, whether made of bread or toast, are the greatest; the outsides get dry as sawdust, the insides frequently moist, the butter having melted and the meat become sodden. Second, pies he has seen, but tJuy have generally been made of minced meat, and so close that there is no room for meat-jelly, etc., and con- sequently dry and bad. He has lived in a huntingHUNTING LUNCHEONS. 40 country some years, and could count on his fingers the few who have had eatable things in their cases. He remembers it being reported that a certain young gentle- man (which at the time afforded much amusement to the “ Coffee-housers ”) lunched on meat-jelly, which he ate with a silver spoon. It has often struck him that a little of this jelly applied to the scoffers’ dry sandwiches or pies would have been a godsend. Such being the case, he has come to the conclusion that the only good things to take are either good meat pies, full of jelly, cold cutlets, or slices of galantines, or rolls the size of the case filled with fish or chicken salad. There is no difficulty whatever in the matter. The Author recommends that the hunting luncheon-case, if a hunting-case is carried, should have a division, one side for the pie or cold cutlets, the other for bread, cake, or plum pudding. The tins in which these pies can be made should be the size of the case, and can be obtained from Messrs. Adams’, in the Haymarket, of Monsieur Beguinot’s (of St. James’ Street) design, and his receipt for making them is given in Chapter XVII.,and he will,if required,send the pies by post ready made. Messrs. Farrow & Jackson, of the Haymarket, have made some of these hunting-cases, so they can be obtained from them in any size if ordered. The next business is, what is the best thing to put in one’s flask "i The Author says decidedly whisky and aerated water, of any sort the reader prefers. If whisky is not liked substitute brandy, and if any gentleman objects to spirits and must have port wine, let him get some old wine from the “ wood.” It is an idiotic thing to take fine old bottled port; it gets so shaken up that before one has jogged a mile it is completely spoilt, and so wasted ; if, however, any one thinks the Author’s remark idiotic, pray let him take old bottled port; probably many don’t know the difference, and the old saying of A man convinced against his will Is of the same opinion still, will be the result.41 HUNTING LUNCHEONS. A list of receipts suitable for using in Luncheons is given below : Galantines.—No. 153. Cutlets in Aspic.—No. 131. Quail in Aspic.—No. 209. Pheasant, Chaufroix of.—No. 200. Chicken in Aspic.—No. 167. Fish or Chicken Salad Rolls.—No. 119. Hunting Pies.—No. 155. Slices of Cake.—Nos. 238, 239, 240. Plum Pudding.—No. 256. HuntingCHAPTER VI. RACE LUNCHEONS. The Author proposes to divide Race Luncheons into two classes: 1st.—For large parties on Drags and in rooms of Stands. 2nd.—For small parties in Carriages, where there is a difficulty in taking plates, etc. 1st.—This class of Luncheon need not be extrava- gantly done. It is surprising at what a small expense Luncheon can be given to thirty or forty people, and what a good opportunity it affords to those who are in the happy position of being able to entertain to be really hospitable, to raise the drooping spirits of some unlucky punter, to satisfy the hunger of some friend or acquaint- ance less blessed with this world’s goods, and to dispense hospitality to those whom they have no other opportunity of entertaining in any other way. If such Luncheons are to be given in November, December, or January, the Author strongly recommends that, if possible, a room in the stand should be procured, and a hot Luncheon given ; the dishes, or rather food, can be easily brought ready to warm up in three large stewpans. To those who are not accustomed to provide such Luncheons the Author thinks a few words on what quantity of wine should be taken might be useful. He quite thinks, as a general rule, a pint of champagne per head is more than will be consumed; in fact, unless in very hot weather, a dozen of champagne is sufficient; and three bottles of brown sherry, two of brandy, and a bottleRACE LUNCHEONS. 43 of orange brandy (the latter can be obtained, of very excellent make, of Mr. Kippling, of Buckby Wharf, Daventry). It will be the Author’s endeavour to save trouble to such hospitably disposed people in ordering Luncheons, by giving twelve menus, sufficient for about thirty to forty people. JANUARY. Mulligatawny Soup. Saute of Pheasant. Braised Beefsteaks. Mince Pies. Cheese, Butter, and Biscuits. Plum and Gingerbread Cakes. FEBRUARY. Three Chaufroix of Sole. Three Dozen Small Hunting Pies. Patd Chaud. Galantine of Turkey. Silver Side of Spiced Beet. Dry Curry. Two Tongues. Two Cold Pheasants. Salad No. 233. Cold Plum Pudding. Cheese, Butter, and Biscuits. Plum and Ginger Cake, and Buns.44 RACE LUNCHEONS. MARCH. Three Mayonnaise of Salmon. Three Dozen Lobster Rolls. Pot-pourri. Beefsteak Pie. Dry Curry. Two Cold Galena. Two Tongues. Salad No. 230. Baba of Fruits. Cheese, Butter, and Biscuits. Pound Cake. Galettes de Plum. Buns. APRIL. Three Chaufroix of Sole. Two Lobster Salads. Pigeon Pie. Fore-quarter of Lamb. Cold Curry. Ham. Salad No. 228. Two Cream Cheeses. Trifle. Plum Cake. Buns. Biscuits.RACE LUNCHEONS. 45 MAY. Three Chaufroix of Salmon. Three Dozen Fish Rolls. Two Mayonnaise of Chicken. Stewed Brisket of Beef in Aspic. Pigeon Pie. Two Tongues. Galantine of Veal aux Truffes. Salad No. 231. D’Artois. Cheese, Butter, and Biscuits. Plum and Pound Cake. Buns. JUNE. Three Mayonnaise of Salmon. Three Dishes of Prawns. Pot-pourri. Fore-quarter of Lamb, with Mint Aspic. Two Cold Chicken. Two Tongues. Galantine. Salads No. 231 and No. 230. Savarins. Cream Cheese. Pound Cake. Galettes de Plum. Biscuits.RACE LUNCHEONS. 46 JULY. Half a Cold Salmon, with Mayonnaise Sauce. Pigeon Pie. Chicken Pie. Four Ballotines of Chicken in Aspic. Ham. Silver Side of Spiced Beef. Two Cold Chicken. Two Tongues. Salads No. 230 and No. 232. Cheese, Butter, and Biscuits. Small Babas of Fruits. Plum and Pound Cakes. AUGUST. Three Lobster Salads. Three Dozen P'ish Rolls. Pate Chaud of Grouse. Stewed Beef in Aspic. Chicken and Ham Pie. Four Cold Grouse. Two Cold Chicken. Two Tongues. Salads No. 231 and No. 230. Apricot Tartlets. Cream Cheese. Biscuits. Plum and Pound Cakes.47 RACE LUNCHEONS. SEPTEMBER. Three Chaufroix of Soles. Three Dozen Lobster Rolls. Pate Chaud of Grouse. Pot-pourri of Game. Cold Beef. Two Chicken. Two Tongues. Four Cold Partridges. D’Artois. Salad No. 235. Cheese, Butter, and Biscuits. Plum and Gingerbread Cake. OCTOBER. Three Mayonnaise of Soles. Three Dozen Timbales of Lobster in Aspic. Pot-pourri of Game. Dry Curry. Two Galantines of Pheasant. Stewed Brisket of Beef. Two Cold Grouse. Two Pheasants. Ham. Salad No. 229. Apricot Tartlets. Cheese, Butter, and Biscuits. Plum and Pound Cake. E48 RACE LUNCHEONS. NOVEMBER. Mutton Broth. Curry of Chicken. Braised Duck aux Navets. Plum Pudding. Cheese^ Butter^ and Biscuits. Pound and Gingerbread Cakes. DECEMBER. Mock Turtle a la Diable. Hashed Venison. Saute of Chicken aux Champignons. Apple Dumplings. Cheese, Butter, and Biscuits. Plum and Gingerbread Cakes. 2nd.—This class of Luncheon cannot, of course, have the same variety or be as good as those written on in the commencement of this chapter, but there are many small things which can be taken in a small space, without knives, forks, or plates, and the Author thinks it advisable to give a list of what he considers applicable to such Luncheons. If there is room for knives and forks, etc., a selection from the large menus can easily be made. The most difficult business in a small Luncheon is to produceRACE LUNCHEONS. 45 the champagne properly iced, and the only way in which this can be done is to obtain one of Messrs. Farrow & Jackson’s icing cases, to hold two or three bottles, for this purpose. A list of things suitable for such Luncheons is now given: Fish Pies. Hunting Pies. Small Pies filled with Aspic. Galantines cut in slices. Mayonnaise of Chicken and Ham in Rolls. „ of Lobster in Rolls. „ of Salmon Cold Chicken „ Pheasant I „ Grouse j Partridge/ neatly filleted in Aspic. Tongue cut in slices. Ham Rolls; Bread cut up ; Biscuits ; D’Artois; Savarins; Plum Pudding; Pound, Gingerbread, and Plum Cakes; a Bunch of Grapes, and just one bottle of good old Brown Sherry or Madeira to wash down the cake, make this sort of Luncheon quite good enough even for an epicure. E 2CHAPTER VII. TRAVELLING LUNCHEONS. A FEW words on the subject of Travelling Luncheons the Author thinks may be acceptable. In the winter travel- ling is hungry work, and if a long journey has to be taken it is rather difficult to know how long it may last, how long one may be snowed up in a drift, or how long delayed by a break-down' of the locomotive; and to add to other inconveniences it is worse than a nuisance to be starved. In the summer the dust and heat make one thirsty, hot, and uncomfortable. A good lunch and a glass of good champagne assist to while away the tediousness of the journey, oil the wheels of life, and improve the temper. Luncheons at the railway stations are greatly im- proved, but necessarily it depends on the consumption whether the sandwiches are freshly cut, the chicken freshly roasted, and in summer both are liable to be sprinkled with dust, a sauce which, so far as the Author is a judge, im- proves neither the taste nor digestion, so he stro7igly advises every one who prefers a nice clean luncheon to take their own. Luncheon baskets, as a rule, he considers badly designed; a large tin case with no divisions, one or two large bottles, which take up nearly all the-room, and assist in spoiling wine if decanted into them, three or four tumblers, and there you are—no room for what is really requisite; so he is conceited enough to think that a basket51 TRAVELLING LUNCHEONS. that he has designed, with the assistance of Messrs. Farrow & Jackson, is a great improvement on any he lias seen. It contains a dish in which a pie can be baked, a tin case with a division, in which cold poultry, game, or meat can be taken, on one side, and bread, cake, plum pudding, or pastry on the other ; it is designed to hold two pint bottles, one for champagne or claret (those of Messrs. Barton & Co., the well-known wine-merchants of 59, St. James^ Street, S.W., we strongly recommend), the other for sherry or Salutaris water. Instead of two tumblers and two small glasses, which take up much room, it is fitted with two large and two small cups of transparent horn, fitting one inside the other, and taking up the room of one tumbler only; they are exceedingly light, clean, and nice. It is, of course, fitted with pepper, salt, and mustard, knives, forks, two plates, and a portable table is fastened outside, which he considers is a great ad- vantage, in fact an absolute necessity for comfort. He gives a list of things which he considers adapted for Travelling Luncheons, and for which receipts are given : Pies— Beefsteak. Chicken. Grouse. Pheasant. Partridge. Veal and Ham. Meats— Cold Beef. „ Stewed Beef „ Ham. „ Tongue. „ Lamb Cutlets in Aspic. Slices of Galantines. „ Ballotines. Poultry and Game— Filets of Chicken. „ Grouse. „ Pheasant. „ Partridge, ,, Galena. Sweets— Plum Pudding. D’Artois. Puffs. Mince Pies. Cakes of all sorts. Lemon Biscuits.CHAPTER VIII. SHOOTING LUNCHEONS, Shooting, like Racing Luncheons, depend entirely on the party and kind of shooting. The Author cannot do better than quote the article in the World of the i8th of November, 1885, with which he quite agrees : Something of the kind is an absolute necessity : it ought to be made a pleasure : it may be made an unutterable bore. As to its necessity, no one will question that who has ever attempted or been compelled to do without it. A fisherman will probably miss his lunch, but its loss will not affect his basket. A huntsman will miss it still more, but, if need be, he will contrive to finish the run without it. But in shooting it is essential. An empty stomach at the end of a long day is as good a friend as feather and fur need desire, though happily, from the human point of view, it is not a friend which often comes to their assistance. All but a few monomaniacs will support the principle of the institution; difficulties arise only upon the question of its form. It should be a cheery enough repast, though, of course, some of the conditions of its success are beyond human control. Nothing can be more joyless than consuming damp sandwiches upon a dripping rock, with a howling wind to roll up the storm- clouds over the Ben behind you. A situation of this sort subdues even a Scotch keeper’s omnivorous capacity for remnants, and the dogs get a larger share than usual of the crumbs which fall from their master’s table. Yet the lunch on the moor is the lunch of the highest possibilities, which only require for their realisation a fine day. A lunch amid the purple heather, with a cloudless sky overhead, and just a ruffle of mountain breeze to tone down the53 SHOOTING LUNCHEONS. effect of the blazing sun, which enables you to appreciate the cool waters of the burn brattling down the hillside into the blue loch below—such a lunch knows no rival in this present vale of tears. The lunch under the road-oak in mild September comes next, but longo intervallo. Lowest of all we place the bestial profusion of the hot lunch, in which a precious hour of December daylight is all too often wasted. The rough surroundings of the moor go far to prevent the possibility of a vulgarly elaborate lunch. This is sometimes allowed to mar the simplicity of partridge-shooting. But its natural place is amid the pomp and pageantry of a big day in the coverts. It is an evil at all times; but it is particularly evil where it is most frequently found, because the work of a day’s covert-shooting is rarely hard enough to justify it. . . . An overgrown lunch is justly abhorred by all men who are really keen on sport; but, at the same time, it is possible to err in the opposite direction. When lunch is reduced to a small packet of sandwiches per head, accompanied by a request from the host to distribute any that may be over amongst the keepers, one is inclined to suspect that this is common stinginess trying to attitudinise as hardy simplicity. Simplicity, it is true, should be the soul of a shooting lunch; but then it should be simplicity in sufficient quantities. A good packet of sandwiches, a hard-boiled egg, and a hunk of cake will amply satisfy most men. But of course in a large party some allowances must be made for individual varieties of taste. Sandwiches are by far the most convenient form of food for the purpose; but then some men dislike them extremely. For the benefit of these, let there be slices of cold meat and a loaf. Gingerbread cake is much to be commended for cold weather, and cheese may be added if necessary. Hard-boiled eggs are always in high favour, and may legitimately find a place in the menu. Soups, fish, hashes, pastry, etc.—let all these be anatJmna inaranatha. As for drink, whisky or claret is best; beer always interferes with walking, and sometimes with shooting; champagne should be inexorably banished. Just one glass of brown sherry is a seductive luxury, which perhaps may be condoned; then that precious half-pipe—and away once more. If the shooting is really good, as little time as possible should be wasted over Luncheon; if bad or moderate, in the winter, a plate of Mulligatawny or an Irish Stew is not to be despised.SHOOTING LUNCHEONS. 54 If the Luncheon is to be cold and no time to be wasted, the Author suggests that a selection from the dishes below given should be taken in a luncheon basket with knives only : Fish Rolls. Chicken Rolls. Slices of Galantines. ,, Ham. „ Beef. „ Tongue. Filets of Chicken. Claret, Whisky, Sherry, Orange or Cherry Brandy, Soda Water. If the shooting is moderate, the weather cold, and Luncheon is the feature of the day, it is much better to arrange if possible to have it in a cottage or shooting lodge, and a list of suitable dishes is here given to select from : Filets of Pheasant. „ Partridge, „ Grouse. Small Pies full of Jelly. Plum Pudding. Cakes. Soups— Mulligatawny. Mutton Broth. Mock Turtle a la Liable. Chicken Pie. Partridge „ Beefsteak „ Sautes of Poultry or Game. Braised Duck aux Navets. „ Beefsteak. „ Mutton. Haricot of Mutton. Irish Stew. Beefsteak Puddings. Civet of Hare. Hashed Venison. Mince Pies, Plum Pudding, Apple Charlotte, Cakes of all sorts.BALL SUPPERS. CHAPTER IX. Ball Suppers, like other repasts, require some care, some management, some taste to be displayed, to be really nice. In the winter a clever cutlet is a luxury, but unless the establishment is large I should almost advise that everything should be cold, soups of course excepted. Cold suppers are much more easily served, and a hot meal so soon after dinner is hardly required. Everything, except perhaps a ham or two and a game pie, should be neatly filleted or cut up. Fish, poultry, game, etc., should be neatly arranged in aspic or chaufroix, or if plain with slices of ham or tongue between each fillet, and salads of some kind arranged in the centre of all cold dishes. Galantines, Ballotines in the same manner should be sliced with alternate slices of ham or tongue, and garnished with chopped aspic or salad de legumes. I should also strongly advise that suppers should be served on several small tables in preference to one large one, and that a dish of each sort .should adorn each table. Fill the room, and close it until the tables have been rearranged, as nothing looks so uncomfortable as to see the remnants of bread, etc., left on the tables. It is easily done in a very few moments, and it makes all the difference in the success of the affair. I shall give only four Bills of Fare. Any one who gives more than fotir balls in one year will probably be in a lunatic asylum before the next, so will not require more.BALL SUPPERS. 56 BALL SUPPERS. JANUARY. Consomm^ a la Royal. Creme de Volaille. Chaufroix of Sole. Mayonnaise of Lobster. Turkey a I’lmpdratrice. Chaufroix of Chicken in Aspic. Pheasant and Tongue. Larks Farcies in Aspic. A Game Pie, Cold Ham. Orange Jelly, Queen’s Cakes. Tartlets a la Creme. Bavarois of Apricots. Ices: Vanilla and Coffee a la Neige. Oysters on Side Table.57 SOUPERS DE BAL. SOUPERS DE BAL, JANVIER. Consomme a la Royal. Creme de Volaille. Chaufroix de Sole. Mayonnaise de Homard. Dinde a I’Imperatrice. Chaufroix de Volaille en Aspic. Faisan et Langue. Mauviettes Farcies en Aspic. Patd de Gibier, Jambon. Gelee d’Orange, Petits Gateaux Assortis. Tartelettes a la Creme. Bavarois de Riz a PAbricot. Glaces: Vanille, Cafe a la Neige. H nitres.BALL SUPPERS. APRIL. Consomme. Consomme Tortue. Chaufroix of Salmon. Plovers’ Eggs in Aspic. Lamb Cutlets in Aspic. Quail Farcies. Chaufroix of Chicken. Chicken and Tongue. Mayonnaise of Lobster in Aspic. Ballotines of Turkey. Cakes, Trifles, Jellies. Ices : Orange and Brown Bread. Grapes, Oranges.SOUPERS DE BAL. 59 AVRIL. Consomme. Consomme Tortue, Chaufroix de Saumon. CEufs de Pluvier en Aspic. Cotelettes d’Agneau en Aspic. Cailles Farcies. Chaufroix de Volaille. Volaille et Langue. Mayonnaise de Homard en Aspic. Ballotines de Dinde. Petits Gateaux Assortis, Trifles, Gelees. Glaces : Creme de POrange et Pain Bis. Grapes, Oranges.BALL SUPPERS. 6o JUNE. Consomme. Puree of Chicken a la Creme. Chaufroix of Sole. Chaufroix of Salmon. Prawns in Aspic. Quail Farcies. Chicken and Tongue. Mayonnaise of Lobster. Galantines in Aspic. Chaufroix of Chicken. Pate of Chicken and Tongue. Cold Ham. Macedoine of Fruits. Compote of Strawberries. Ices ; Strawberry Cream, and Raspberry Water. Cakes, Grapes, Strawberries.SOUPERS DE BAL. 6i JUIN. Consomme. Creme de Volaille. Chaufroix de Sole. Chaufroix de Saumon. Crevettes en Aspic. Cailles Farcies. Volaille et Langue. Mayonnaise de Homard. Galantine en Aspic. Chaufroix de Volaille. Pate de Volaille et Langue. Jambon. Macedoine de Fruits. Compote de Fraises. Glaces. Creme de Fraises. Glace de Framboises. Petits Gateaux Assortis. Grapes. Fraises.6’ BALL SUPPERS. SEPTEMBER. Puree of Partridge a la Creme. Mock Turtle. Chaufroix of Sole in Aspic. Partridge and Tongue. Lobster in Aspic. Chaufroix of Chicken a la Portugaise. Ballotines of Partridge. Grouse. Game Pie, Ham. Bavarois of Rice a PAbricot and aux Peches. Jellies. Cakes, Biscuits. Ices : Apricot Cream and Peach Water. Oysters.63 SOUPERS DE BAL. SEPTEMBRE. Creme de Perdreaux. Consomme Fausse Tortue. Chaufroix de Sole en Aspic. Perdreaux et Langue. Homard en Aspic. Chaufroix de Volaille a la Portugaise. Ballotines de Perdreaux. Grouse. Pate de Gibier, Jambon. Bavarois de Riz a PAbricot et aux Peches. Gelees. Petits Gateaux Assortis. Biscuits. Glaces : Creme d’Abricot. Glace de Peches. Huitres. FLIST OF RECEIPTS. CHAPTER X. BREADS, ETC. BROWN BREAD. No. I. Put in a pan six pounds of flour, in which the bran is left, and make a hole in the centre. Dissolve, in a pint and a half of warm water, three ounces of German yeast,- and mix in six ounces of dissolved butter; pour it into the centre of the flour, and mix in sufficient flour to make the yeast a smooth thick batter; sprinkle it over with flour, cover it with a cloth, and placing it in a warm (but not hot) place, allow it to rise. When the batter has risen, and begins to crack on the surface, add three tea-spoonfuls of salt, and mix in the whole of the flour with your hands, adding sufficient tepid soft water to enable you to work it into a smooth firm dough, knead it well with your fists until it becomes firm, sift some flour over it, cover it with a cloth and allow it to rise again for half an hour. Flour some two-pound tins and fill them with the dough, or divide the dough into pieces, some rather larger than the others, but about one pound each; flour a board, knead the pieces and roll them into round balls, flatten them a little, and place the smaller pieces on the larger; make an in- dentation on the top, and score the top piece all round;65 BREADS, ETC. bake either for about an hour and a half. Take out of the oven, and let the loaves get cold, placing them on their side, or upside down, WHITE BREAD. No. 2. The same, only use best white or second flours and omit the butter. FRENCH ROLLS. TWISTS. RINGS. FINGERS. No. 3. Dissolve one ounce of German yeast in half a pint ot tepid milk, and work in sufficient flour to make a thick ball of paste ; place the ball into a basin containing about a pound and three-quarters of white flour, previously mixed Avith half an ounce of Borwick’s baking powder; cover it with a cloth and set it by the fire to rise; when it has risen, which Avill be in about twenty minutes, add by degrees a pint of tepid milk, working in the flour and kneading it well, until it becomes a smooth elastic dough; flour a pastry-board, and form it with your hands into either small round or oval rolls, twists, rings, or fingers. Place them on a baking tin, cover them with paper, and put them in a Avarm place to rise; brush them over Avith milk and bake in a quick oven for about twenty minutes ; the size, however, makes some slight difference, so they require attention. LUNCHEON ROLLS. No. 4. Dissolve half an ounce of German yeast in a pint of tepid Avater; mix in tAvo pounds of flour, cover with a cloth, and let the dough rise in a Avarm place ; when it has risen knead it Avell, and form it into small round balls; if for filling Avith fish or salads they should be not larger than two inches in diameter. Bake for about tAventy minutes. F 266 BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. M[/FFINS. No. 5. Put two pounds of flour into a pan, mixed with an ounce of Borwick’s baking powder, making it hollow in the centre ; dissolve, in two quarts of tepid water, an ounce of German yeast; pour it by degrees into the hollow of the flour, working it in until it is all mixed; cover with a cloth, put it in a warm place to rise, and when it has risen to double the original size, work it up again for a minute, cover it with a cloth and let it rise again. Put on a baking sheet some circular muffin tins (which can be obtained of Messrs. Adams & Son, in the Haymarket, at 4s. a dozen), and put them in the oven to get hot; take them out, smear with hot butter and half fill each tin with the dough ; return them to the oven, and when the bottom is slightly browned remove the hoops, turn them over and bake slightly the other side. For use, toast them on each side, holding them some distance from the fire to get hot in the middle ; cut them in half, butter both insides well, put them together again, cut them in halves or quarters, and put them into a hot muffin plate and serve. CRUMPETS. No. 6. Put two pounds of flour into a pan, mixing in a dessert- spoonful of salt; dissolve an ounce and a half of German yeast in a quart of tepid milk, pour it over the flour, mix "into a smooth batter, cover it with a cloth, and put it into a screen by the fire for about an hour to rise. Put some crumpet tins (which can be obtained of Messrs. Adams & Son, of the Haymarket, at 4s. per dozen) on a stone or iron baking sheet, and put them in the oven to o-et hot; smear with hot butter, and with a table-spoon fill the tins with the batter, not disturbing the batter more than is absolutely necessary; put them on a hot plate or in a quick oven until the bottom is set, when remove theBREADS, ETC. 67 hoops, turn.them over, and bake the other side; about five minutes will be sufficient for both sides. For use, toast them on both sides, saturate with butter and serve, cutting them in half, in a very hot muffin plate. SCONES. No. 7. Take a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda, half a tea- spoonful of cream of tartar, and a cupful of buttermilk ; work it up to a thick consistency with best Hungarian flour; add a pinch of salt, roll out, cut to size, and bake on a girdle. This should make about six scones. PLAIN BUNS. No. 8. Dissolve in half a pint of tepid milk half an ounce of German yeast; mix into it by degrees a pound of flour, previously mixed with half an ounce of Borwick’s baking powder, and add two ounces of warmed butter, two eggs, and two ounces of pounded sugar; work the whole well together, kneading it with your fists, and making it into a smooth round ball ; cover it with a cloth, and put it to rise for half an hour in a warm place. Divide the dough when risen into ten or twelve pieces ; roll them into balls, place them on a floured baking tin, press them with the palm of the hand so as to give them an oval shape, brush them with yolk of egg and bake for about twenty minutes. PLUM BUNS. No. 9. The same proces.s, only add with the sugar two ounces of Sultana raisins, well washed and dried.CHAPTER XL TEA, COFFEE, COCOA. TEA. No. lo. To make really good tea three things are absolutely necessary: boiling water, that is fresh boiled—it should not have been boiled and allowed to stand and boil a second time, nor should it have been boiling more than a minute or so ; good tea ; and plenty of it. I almost agree with the charming old song by H. B. Farnie, viz., “A Cup of Tea ”: “ First you take and warm your teapot, let the water boiling be, That’s a most important secret, but mind you do not spare the tea ; Put it on the hob to draw it, for some minutes two or three. Then fill up and shake and pour it, and bless the man who found out tea. Give to me, oh, give to me, a full and fragrant cup of tea.” But differing in one or two particulars, I will give what I consider “The best Directions for making Tea.^^ Rinse the teapot with boiling water, pour it out, and put in the tea, one tea-spoonful for each person, one for the pot, and one for luck; shake it, and let it remain for a minute or so, when fill up with the required quantity of water, just boiling, as above directed, cover with a69 TEA, COFFEE, COCOA. cosey, and let it stand for five minutes—that, I think, is much better than the hobj the latter may boil and spoil it, whereas the former keeps it hot and draws it. Half fill the cups if there is not sufficient tea for all, fill up the pot, and fill the cups; and unless you are very particular, in which case make fresh tea, fill up the pot again in case any one requires a second cup, and don’t forget the cosey. Allow each person to add his own sugar and cream, as tastes differ. There are so many kinds of tea, such a variety of flavours, that it would be quite hopeless to select one which would be agreeable to all my readers; let me, however, advise them that whatever flavour they admire, whether that of rich full-flavoured Congou, the delicate Sou- chong, or the highly scented Flowery Pekoe, to get it of good quality. Tea has very much decreased in price during the last twenty years, and very drinkable tea can be easily obtained at about 2s. per lb. and quite excellent at 3s.; and although I cannot select, I can recommend any one to try Messrs. Cooper, Cooper, & Co.’s, which I consider really excellent. COFFEE. No. II. Coffee, to be really good, should be roasted frequently, and ground as it is required. A self-acting roaster, from i8s. 6d., can be obtained at Messrs. Adams’, which, I am told by tradesmen in the coffee business, is the best, as it revolves by machinery, and by this method the berries are more evenly roasted. If you have neither a roaster nor a coffee-mill, buy sufficient for a fortnight’s consumption only, and keep it in a tin in a dry place, and it will retain its flavour for three weeks very fairly. Of coffee, like tea, there are many s(?rts, and if you can get real Mocha and all good berries, I suppose it is the best, but I do70 BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. not recommend it. The quantity to be used is a some- what disputed point; in cafe au lait an ounce for a breakfast cup is the usual measure, but if cafe ?ioir is to be good that quantity is very insufficient. I have heard that there should be a cup of ground coffee to each cup of water to be really good, but I think this is a little over- doing it; so let me put it as a general rule—use two ounces of ground coffee for each half-pint of water. Coffee machines, like the kinds of berries, are endless, but I really think “Adams’ Coffee Percolator” is the best; it is less liable to get out of order than any other, and with common care makes very good coffee. Directions for Use. Remove the cover, take out the percolator and put the coffee in the well on top of the strainer; return the percolator, pour in the amount of boiling water required, put on the cover and put the pot on the side of the fire until the water has drained through. Remove the well part from the top of the pot and let the coffee get very hot before serving or pouring into the coffee-pot,^^which is to be sent to the table. For “ Cafe au Lait, send in with the coffee a jug of boiling milk, and let me beg of the mistress, master, or servant who fills the cups to take the coffee-pot in one hand, the boiling milk in the other, and pour both at the same time into the cup; it mixes so much better and the flavour is greatly improved thereby. . , , For “ Cafe Noir,” if the coffee is good, strong, and hot, nothing is required except a little crushed sugar-candy, but as ''somepeople'’ take cream witli it, I suppose I must say, “ hand round cream.”71 TEA, COFFEE, COCOA. COCOA. No. 12. Cocoa nibs, like coffee, are better fresh roasted ; so if you have a coffee-roaster you can procure the cocoa beans, roast and rub them through a sieve. The quantity used should be half a teacup of nibs to a pint of water. Directions to Make. Put half a teacup of nibs to every pint of water, put the nibs in a common coffee-pot and pour the boiling water on them, put it on the fire and let it boil up, when put it on the side to simmer for three or four hours. Strain it, and it will keep for some days. The chief reason cocoa is seldom good is that it is not stewed long enough. There is not time to make it before breakfast, unless it is put on at six o’clock; as this is seldom the case, a poor, watery, weak mess is generally produced. To serve, make it very hot, send in with it some boiling milk, and pour out as Cafe au Lait.CHAPTER XII. EGGS AND OMELETS. TO BOIL. No. 13. Eggs to be good should not be more than two days old ; after that they lose the creamy substance over the yolk which makes an egg so delicious. A new-laid egg takes a minute longer to boil than one which has been laid some days, and if you wish the white set it should be put in boiling water and allowed to boil four minutes and a half. If you prefer the white running all over your plate, and dropping all over your dress on the way to your mouth, let it boil three minutes and a half. BUTTERED EGGS AU JUS. No. 14. Melt in an enamelled saucepan two ounces of butter, add a table-spoonful of cream, remove it from the fire, and break into the saucepan four eggs; flavour with pepper and salt, put the saucepan on the fire, and stir the whole with a wooden spoon until the mixture mixes like custard, being careful it does not curdle. Fry in butter some toast in sc]^uares of three inches, and put a table-spoonful of the mixture on each, and serve with three or four table-spoonfuls of Clear Brown Sauce (No. 35), slightly reduced.73 EGGS AND OMELETS. BUTTERED EGGS WITH SHRIMPS, MUSHROOMS, TRUFFLES, ASPARAGUS, OR TOMATOES. No. 15. Buttered eggs can be prepared in the same way with picked shrimps warmed in milk, and mixed with a table- spoonful or two of Bechamel Sauce (No. 34), and put in the centre of the egg on each piece of toast; a puree of kippered haddock, chopped truffles, or sauted mushrooms can be substituted for shrimps, or points of asparagus boiled and covered with butter, or the whole can be masked with a puree of fresh tomatoes. bouchAes of buttered eggs au grat in, CHAMPIGNON, ASPARAGUS, ETC. No. 16. The inside of some small halfpenny rolls (No. 4) can be taken out and the rolls put in the oven again until crisp, when they can be filled with the buttered eggs, and either shrimps, truffles, mushrooms, asparagus points, or a spoon- ful of Maitre d’Hotel Butter put in the centre, and masked with a few fried bread-crumbs and served very hot. POACHED EGGS. No. 17. ^ Fill a long shallow saucepan with hot water and let it boil up, add for each pint of water a tea-spoonful of vinegar ; when boiling, break into the pan as many eggs as are re- quired, being careful not to break the yolk, or to let two touch each other. Let them poach until the white is set, when take each egg out with an egg-slice, let each egg drain, and put it on a piece of buttered toast three inches square. If the outside of the egg is ragged, trim it neatly before serving-. o74 breakfasts, LUxNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. EGGS, FRIED. No. i8. Warm in a frying-pan two ounces of butter, and let it come to the boil without colouring ; break carefully into it as many eggs as are required, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and fry until the whites are set; take them out with an egg- slice, and arrange in the dish on which they are to be served either with bacon, or puree of tomato, or Mait're d^Hotel Sauce (No. 38), or Bechamel Sauce (No. 34), or Fine Herbs Sauce (No. 49), or Au Jus with Clear Brown Sauce (No. 35). EGGS AUX FINE HERBS A LA CR£ME. No. 19. Small earthenware cups with handles are made es- pecially for serving eggs cooked in the following way : Put into each cup a quarter of an ounce of butter, put the cup in the oven and melt the butter ; take the cups out and break an egg into each, dust with pepper and salt, put them into the oven until the whites are set, and if the bottom should get cooked before the top, which is sometimes the case if the heat in the oven is not equal, pass a salamander over the top, which will have the desired effect; mask with Fine Herbs Sauce (No. 49), or Bechamel Sauce (No. 34), sprinkle with some fried bread-crumbs and serve hot. OMELETS, TO FRY. No. 20. Mix smoothly in a basin three eggs, add a table-spoon- ful of cream, half a tea-spoonful of mustard, a sprinkling of pepper and salt, and mix the whole well together. Boil in an omelet pan two ounces of butter, being careful that it does not burn, wave the pan round so that the sides may be moistened with the butter, and when75 EGGS AND OMELETS. boiling (as the heat of the butter is of great consequence), pour into the pan the mixture, stir it with a fork, especially the outsides so that they shall not catch, and shake the pan to prevent the omelet adhering to it; when set like a soft custard, fold the part nearest the handle nearly over the other and turn in neatly the outside edge, shake it so that it shall not adhere to the pan, tip it a trifle to allow it to brown, when turn quickly out on to a dish by raising the handle and turning it sharply over. To fry an omelet and turn it out well requires great practice; the secret of success is to prevent its adhering to the pan, and this is only to be avoided by its being cooked quickly, and the pan being kept in perpetual motion. Serve with a gill of half-glaze in the dish. FISH OMELETS. No. 21. When the omelet is nearly fried, as in No. 20, place whatever fish is to be used—either sauted in butter, or mixed with cream preparation, a description of which will be given in the chapter for “ Fish ”—on the side farthest from the handle, turn the other half over it, turn out on to an entree dish, and serve with a gill of half-glaze. HAM OMELETS. No. 22. Chop three ounces of lean cooked ham, and mix in the basin with the eggs, etc., as in No. 20; fry, and serve in the same way with a gill of half-glaze. KIDNEY OMELETS. No. 23. Slice and sautd in butter, sprinkling with pepper and salt, two sheep’s kidneys, stir in a spoonful of fresh76 BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. tomato puree or Fine Herbs Sauce; and when the omelet is nearly fried as in No. 20, arrange the kidneys on the side farthest from the handle, turn the other side over it and on to an entree dish, and serve with a gill of Fine Herbs Sauce. OMELET AUX FINE HERBS. No. 24. Chop finely some parsley, chives, and half a small shalot, mix in the basin with the eggs as in No. 20, fry, and serve in the same way, only substitute a gill of Fine Herbs Sauce for half-glaze. OMELET AUX TO MATES. No. 25. When the omelet is turned on to the dish, pour over it half a pint of puree of fresh tomatoes made rather thick. OMELET AUX CHAMPIGNONS. No. 26. Cook as in Kidney Omelet, saute the mushrooms in the same way, and put this in the omelet, pouring a little of the liquor round it.CHAPTER XIII. STOCKS, SAUCES. CONSOMME, OR BROWN STOCK. No. 27. To eight pounds of lean beef or shin of beef (the bones of the latter having been broken, and all the marrow extracted), six carrots well washed, scraped, and divided lengthways into four parts, two onions quartered, two turnips cut in halves, two small sticks of celery, a dessert-spoonful of sugar, and one and a half of salt, add one gallon of water. Put all the ingredients into a stockpot or large sauce- pan, boil up briskly, and place on the side of the fire to gently for six hours. Remove the scum as it rises, and after the stock has been on the fire for six hours, strain through a colander into a large basin, so as to clear the stock from all meat and vegetables ; then run it again through a tammy cloth to clear it of all remnants of meat or vegetables which may have been left after the former process, and put it into basins to become cold. When quite cold and required for use, remove the fat which has formed on the top with a wooden spoon ; as some particles of fat which cannot be taken off with a spoon are sure to remain, wipe the surface of the jelly with a clean cloth which has previously been dipped in warm water and wrung nearly dry. If the stock is not quite clear it should be clarified as follows : Pass two pounds of lean beef through one of Lovelock's sausage machines, put it in a stewpan, and78 BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. having warmed the stock, mix it in by degrees a pint at a time with the meat, stirring it with a wooden spoon over the fire until it boils; put it then on the side of the fire and let it simmer for an hour, add a carrot, onion, and stick of celery, all sliced, and let it boil up, and strain through a wet cloth. It should be put in the cloth a pint at a time, and when the last pint is put in, the four corners of the cloth should be pinned together and suspended over a basin, until all that is clear has run through. This is the best process for the clarification of all stocks and soups : the egg clarification makes them taste thin. WHITE STOCK. No. 28. The same proportion of everything excepting the sugar as in receipt for Brown Stock (No. 27), only substitute veal or knuckle of veal for beef. The same processes of boiling, straining, clearing of all fat and grease, and if necessary of clarification, must be adopted. —All stocks should be put in several basins, in- stead of one large one, as when the fat is left on, it keeps much better. ASPIC JELLY. No. 29. Break into small pieces three pounds of a shin of beef (all the marrow being taken out), four calves’ feet, and four pounds of knuckle of veal, wash them well, and put them into a stewpan with three carrots, two onions, a bunch of parsley, and a gallon of water . boil the whole up and place it on the side of the fire to simmer until reduced to half, skimming the fat off from time to time. Remove from the fire and let it stand for some minutes, when strain first through a colander and then through a dinner napkin, or rubber, and let it cret cold ; when cold remove all fat and grease as^ in the'’other stocks, and if necessary clarify by the followingSTOCKS, SAUCES. 79 process : Whisk the whites of two eggs in a pint of water, warm up the jelly, and pour it into it, stir it well in, allow it to boil a quarter of an hour, and strain through a jelly-bag. When it is clear, warm it up and flavour with some sprays of green tarragon and the juice of three or four lemons, GLAZE. No. 30. Glaze is made by reducing stock by means of boiling to the substance of liquid glue ; when it begins to thicken, it should simmer gently until it is fit for use, which is when it drops from the spoon like a thick syrup. When required for use, the basin in which it is should be placed in hot water to warm, and the quantity required for use taken out with a spoon. No salt should be used in stock intended for reduction to glaze, as the salt does not reduce with the stock, BROWN THICKENING, OR ROUX. No. 31. Put half a pound of clarified butter (that is, butter cleared of all milk by boiling) into a stewpan, dissolve it, and stir in with a wooden spoon half a pound of flour until quite smooth; put it on a slow fire and let it simmer for an hour, or until it becomes a nice brown colour, stirring it all the time so as to prevent its catching the bottom of the stewpan, and then put it in a basin for use. It depends greatly on the heat of the fire how long it is before it is a nice brown, but if it is burnt it is spoilt. A dessert-spoonful will thicken a pint of gravy. WHITE THICKENING. No. 32. The same as above, only the fire over which it is mixed must be a very slow one, and care must be taken not to allow it to become coloured. G8o BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. SAUCES. ALLEMANDE SAUCE. No. 33. To a pint of White Stock (No. 28), add six mushrooms chopped, a sprig of parsley, a pint of boiled new milk, and an ounce of white thickening; stir it over the fire until it becomes quite smooth, reduce it until thick, when add half a pint of good cream ; let the whole simmer over the fire for a minute or so, stirring it all the time, and strain into a basin for use. BECHAMEL CREAM. No. 34. Put two ounces of clarified butter into a stewpan, let it melt, then stir in an ounce and a half of flour until quite smooth, add a sprig or two of parsley, six peppercorns, six sliced mushrooms, and half a pint of White Stock (No. 28) ; let the whole boil up, stirring until it does, put it on one side and add half a pint of good thick cream, and let it simmer for twenty minutes; strain into a basin for use. BROWN SAUCE, CLEAR. No. 35. Reduce some Stock (No. 27) by boilipg until it becomes the substance of half-glazCj which is about the thickness of good cream. BUTTER, FINE HERBS. No. 36. Wash and throw into boiling water a handful of tarragon or chervil, chives, and parsley, and there let them remain for five minutes j dry them, and put them in a mortar with two ounces of outter and a little salt, pound the whole, rub through a hair sieve, and make into small balls.STOCKS, SAUCES. 8i BUTTER, LOBSTER. No. 37. Pound in a mortar two ounces of lobster berries, mixed with two and a half ounces of butter, a tea-spoonful of Burgess Sz; Co.’s essence of anchovies, and a little cayenne pepper; rub it through a hair sieve, and put in a basin for use. BUTTER, MAh RE D'H6tEL. No. 38. Warm two ounces of butter and half an ounce of glaze in a stewpan until mixed, stirring all the time; add a table- spoonful of chopped parsley and the juice of half a lemon, and let the whole get cold ; when cold, form it into balls or squares for use. CELERY SAUCE. No. 39. Stew until tender two sticks of celery; when quite soft pound them in a mortar and rub them through a hair sieve. If to use hot with pheasant, add it to a pint of White Sauce (No. 62); if to be used as flavouring to a chaufroix, add three table-spoonfuls to half a pint of Bechamel Cream (No. 34), and put in a basin for use. CHAUFROIX SAUCE, WHITE. No. 40. Mix together three-quarters of a pint of Allemande Sauce (No. 33) and Aspic Jelly (No. 29), and if required flavour It with three table-spoonfuls of puree of mush- rooms or celery sauce; warm the whole so as to in- corporate them thoroughly, when put in a basin for use. It should be nearly cold but not set when it is used to G 283 BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS CHAUFROIX SAUCE, BROWN. No. 41. Incorporate equal portions of Espagnole Sauce (No. 48) and Aspic Jelly (No. 29); put it in a basin for use. It should be cool but not set when used. CHAUFROIX SAUCE A LA PORTUGAISE. No. 42. Fry half a pint of pimentos and put them in a stew- pan with a pint of White Stock (No. 28), a little salt, and a table-spoonful of sifted sugar; let the whole braise for two hours, when rub through a hair sieve, and pass through a silk sieve ; add this puree to White Chaufroix Sauce (No. 40) for white meats, and to Brown Chaufroix Sauce (No. 41) for brown meats. It is also very good served hot with braised chicken. CHATEAUBRIAND SAUCE. No. 43. Reduce a wine-glassful of sherry to half, add an ounce of glaze, a gill of Brown Sauce (No. 35) or Espagnole (No. 48), two ounces of butter, the juice of half a lemon, and a dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley ; make very hot, and serve. DEVIL SAUCE. No. 44. A table-spoonful of mustard, a tea-spoopful of Cook’s curry paste, a table-spoonful of Worcestershire sauce, two table-spoonfuls of mushroom catsup, a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, a tea-spoonful of Searcy Salt, the yolk of an egg, and half a pint of any soup over from the night before; if a thin soup, thicken with half an ounce of Brown’Thickening (No. 31), boil up, and pour over the broiled meat.83 STOCKS, SAUCES. DEVIL SAUCE. No. 45. Warm and mix together a tea-spoonful of mixed mus- tard, a table-spoonful of Worcestershire sauce, an ounce of glaze, ditto of butter, a salt-spoonful of cayenne pepper, one of salt, and a table-spoonful of chopped parsley; rub the meat which is to be broiled with it. DEVIL SAUCE A LA PERRY. No. 46. Mix in equal proportions butter and Perry’s Indian Deville Chutnees, and apply as hereafter instructed. DO IVA TON SAUCE. No. 47. To three-quarters of a pint of good White Sauce (No. 62) add a dessert-spoonful of anchovy sauce, and a small wine-glassful of sherry; mix well and serve. ESPAGNOLE SAUCE. No. 48. Cover the bottom of a stewpan with onions cut in halves, put on the onions a knuckle of veal chopped into small pieces, and add a pint of water; let it simmer gently for an hour and a half until a nice dark brown, when add two quarts of White Stock (No. 28), garnish with a bunch of parsley and thyme, two bay leaves, half a dozen shalots, two or three carrots and onions sliced; a dozen mushrooms and their trimmings, and let the whole simmer for one hour ; strain through a cloth and add to the stock two ounces of Brown Thickening (No. 31) to each quart of stock; boil up and strain through a sieve. Return the sauce to the stew- pan and let it simmer on the side of the fire until the butter rises, when skim and add a little more Stock (No. 27) ; allow it to simmer again for half an hour until all the greasy part rises, when skim it again. This sauce is the84 BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. foundation of so many thick sauces for cutlets, salmis, etc., that it should always be at hand; it can be put in small basins and covered with lard, and will keep for months. It can, however, be purchased in bottles made by Monsieur Beguinot, either at his shops in St. James’ Street, or of any Italian warehouseman. FINE HERBS SAUCE. No. 49. To half a pint of Brown Sauce (No. 35) add three shalots, or half a dozen chives chopped, two branches of parsley chopped, a table-spoonful of puree of fresh tomatoes (no bottled sauce), ditto of chopped chervil, three button mushrooms chopped fine, a small glassful of sherry and a pinch of salt; simmer, not boil, the whole for twenty minutes, and it will be ready for use. INDIAN SAUCE. No. 50. To half a pint of Brown Sauce (No. 35) add a tea- spoonful of chopped greens, capsicums, gherkins, chives, mixed pickles, pickled walnut, curry paste, and a depert- spoonful of Worcestershire sauce ; boil up for a minute, and serve. MADERE SAUCE. No. 51. To one tumbler of sherry reduced to half by boiling, add one ounce of Espagnole Sauce (No. 48), one ounce of Brown Sauce (No. 35), a tea-spoonful of sliced truffle or mushroom, and Searcy Salt to taste. MAYONNAISE SAUCE. No. 52. To the yolk of one egg hard boiled, and of one raw beaten through a wire sieve, add two or three diops of85 STOCKS, SAUCES. vinegar, and pepper and salt to taste. Mix together in a basin or mortar, and drop in at first by single drops, the finest salad oil (which can be obtained from Messrs. Barto Valle in the Haymarket), incorporating the same by degrees either with a wooden spoon or pestle ; continue dropping in the oil until it becomes too thick to work, when add a tea-spoonful of Tarragon vinegar, again incorporate oil, repeating the vinegar when too thick until sufficient is made; if for fish add some chopped capers and chives; if for salad, some chopped chives and tarragon. GREEN MA YONNAISE. No. 53. The above sauce can be made green by scalding some parsley, beating it through a wire and hair sieve, and adding sufficient to make it a nice green. RED MAYONNAISE. No. 54. Colour the Mayonnaise Sauce (No. 52) with some red lobster spawn, pounded and rubbed through a sieve. MAYONNAISE FOR DRESSING CHAUFROIX. No. 55. Melt and pour into a basin half a pint of Aspic Jelly (No. 29), add two table-spoonfuls of best salad oil, one dessert-spoonful of tarragon and a little salt, whisk the whole together until it becomes quite smooth ; add the juice of half a lemon and mask the meats or poultry. The foregoing sauces are more easily mixed on ice in the summer. MINT SAUCE. No. 56. To three table-spoonfuls of jiice young mint leaves chopped fine, add two table-spoonfuls of brown moist sugar, and-four table-spoonfuls of white wine vinegar. Let It soak for an hour, when stir up, and it is fit for use.'86 BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. MINT JELLY FOR MASKLNG CUTLETS. No. 57. To two table-spoonfuls of Espagnole Sauce (No. 48), add one table-spoonful of Aspic Jelly (No. 29) and one table-spoonful of Mint Sauce (No. 56), warm and incor- porate thoroughly, and let it get cold but not set before commencing to mask. • MUSHROOM SA UCE. No. 58. Clean, peel, and remove the stalks from half a pint of button mushrooms, stew them in half a pint of White Sauce (No. 62), and when soft pound them in a mortar, and rub through a wire and hair sieve; pepper and salt to taste. MUSHROOM SAUCE FOR CHAUFROIX. No. 59. Prepare the mushrooms in same manner as in the fore- going receipt, only make the sauce rather thick, when in- corporate with it sufficient White Stock (No. 28), and two spoonfuls of good thick cream. NORVEGIENNE SAUCE. No. 60. To half a pint of Mayonnaise Sauce (No. 52), omit the capers and add two table-spoonfuls of finely grated horse- radish. SALAD DRESSING, FRENCH. No. 61. To three table-spoonfuls of best salad oil, add a dessert- spoonful of Tarragon vinegar, a salt-spoonful of salt, and half a one of pepper; chop finely some green tarragon, a branch of parsley, three chives or a taste of shalot, mix well, and let the whole soak for half an hour before using. WHITE SAUCE. No. 62. Put into a saucepan two ounces of butter, and let it melt, when stir in until quite smooth an ounce and a half of flour, add half a pint of new milk and three table- spoonfuls of cream ; let it boil up, stirring all the time, add salt to taste, and it is ready for use.CHAPTER XIV. CLEAR SOUPS. CONSOMME A LA ROYAL. No. 63. Poach in a frying-pan as many pieces of Chicken Quenelle Meat (No. 187),* cut into diamond shapes, as are required, poach in water, and throw into the tureen of Consomme (No 27) ; flavour to taste with sugar and salt. CONSOMME. No. 64. Serve in tureen as much plain Consomme (No. 27) as is required, only serve it and not half cold, as is generally the case at balls. CONSOMME TORTUE. No. 65. In selecting dried turtle be careful to pick the thickest pieces; soak as much as is required in warm water, letting it stand by the side of the fire for forty-eight hours, changing the water every six hours. After this scald and thoroughly clean it, scraping the inside, and cutting off all the ragged edges. Cut it into squares of an inch, and put it into a stewpan with one pint of Consomme (No. 27) to a pound, and a bag containing a tea-spoonful of basil, six peppercorns, and a little salt; hermetically seal or exclude all air from the stewpan, put it in a bain-marie of boiling * “ The Pytehley Cookery Book.”88 BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. water, and let it boil gently for six hours. Add one quart of Consomme (No. 27), and one quart of White Stock (No. 28), and one glassful of sherry to each pound of turtle, let the whole boil up, and serve with lemon and cayenne. The greatest care should be taken that all the turtle should be soft; and as some pieces take longer than others, it should be carefully watched, and the pieces which are soft should be removed, and the rest stewed until soft. CONSOMME: FA USSR TOR TUB. No. 66. Procure a calfs head blanched, remove the brain and bone, and put it in cold water to soak and get thoroughly clean. Put it in a stewpan with six quarts of water, four carrots, two onions, two table-spoonfuls of salt, and let it boil until tender. Take out the head and put it between two dishes and press the head until it is quite cold, when cut off the turtle part, which is the glutinous part over the fat and meat. Cut this into squares of an inch, and put into a stewpan with two quarts of Consomme (No. 27) and two quarts of White Stock (No. 28), two wine-glassfuls of sherry, two sprays of basil, two ditto of marjoram, salt and sugar to taste, and let the whole simmer for half an hour ; remove the basil and marjoram, and serve with lemon and cayenne. It will save some trouble to obtain a pint of the glutinous matter of calfs head from Monsieur Beguinot, of Wandsworth Road, and add to this Consomme. consomm£ tor tub, and consomme FAUSSE TOR TUB A LTNDIENNE. No. 67. Either of the Consommes (No. 65 or No. 66) can be altered into No. 67 by adding a table-spoonful of Madras curry powder sewed up in a muslin bag for each quart of soup, and letting it boil up and simmer for half an hour.THICK SOUPS, 89 THICK SOUPS. PUREE OF CHICKEN, RABBIT, PHEASANT, A LA REINE. No. 68, Wash and clean thoroughly any of the above in the pro- portion of one to three pints of White Stock (No. 28), and let it stew until tender, when remove all the white meat, pound it in a mortar with two ounces of butter, and rub through a wire and hair sieve, adding a' little of the stock to make it work easier. Return the carcase of whatever is used to the stock, and add to it two white carrots, a stick of celery, a turnip, two onions, all sliced, and an ounce of salt, and let it stew for two hours. Strain and beat the vegetables, omitting the carrots and turnips, through a wire and hair sieve, add them and the puree of meat to the stock, incorporating them by degrees, and then add one pint of good cream and a tea-spoonful of sugar. MULLIGATAWNY SOUP. No. 69. Fillet a rabit or chicken and fry with two ounces of butter, and two large onions sliced, until the whole is a nice light brown, being very careful that the onions do not catch or the whole will be spoilt. Put the whole into a stewpan with four carrots sliced, a stick of celery cut up, a table- spoonful of salt, and two quarts of Consomme (No, 27), let it stew for three-quarters of an hour, when take out the rabbit or chicken and remove all the best part of the meat from the bones, when return the carcase and rough parts to the stock, and let it stew until the vegetables are soft. Strain through a fine colander, pound the rough parts of the meat and the vegetables, omitting the carrots, and beat them through a wire and then a hair sieve and return to the stock. Cut the meat which was removed from the90 BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. bones into pieces the size of a cobnut, and put in the soup ; add a table-spoonful of Madras curry powder (which can be obtained very good at Stembridge’s, in Leicester Square), mixed by degrees in a little of the stock, half a pound of apple pulp made rather sweet, a table-spoonful of Cashmere chutnee, two ounces of brown thickening, or two table- spoonfuls of pounded tapioca, and simmer until it thickens ; add half a pint of good cream, and hand round some nice well-boiled rice, every grain of which should be separate. MUTTON BROTH. No. 70. To six pounds of scrag of mutton add six quarts of water, a dozen small onions, a stick of celery cut in pieces, two carrots cut in shape of dice, four turnips cut in shape of almonds, a bunch of parsley, two ounces of pearl barley, an ounce and a half of salt, an ounce of sugar and a tea- spoonful of pepper; let the whole boil up, and then simmer for three hours, strain off the liquor, and let it get cold, and remove all the grease. Take the meat off the bones of the mutton and cut it into pieces about the size of a filbert, and add it, the vegetables, and the pearl barley to the strained stock ; boil up and serve. PUR^E D'HU 1 TREE A LA CR£ME. No. 71. Allow two dozen oysters for each quart of Stock (No. 28) and pint of cream. Open the oysters carefully, so that no shell may adhere to them, or be in their liquor; scald them so that they may just be set in their liquor, when take the oysters out and cut off the beards and hard substance. Add the above proportion of stock to the oyster liquor and beards, and let the whole stew for twenty minutes ; strain, and thicken the stock with two ounces of white thickening, add the cream, flavour- with pepper and salt, throw in the oysters, make very hot and serve.CHAPTER XV. FARCE STUFFINGS, PICKLE, AND PASTRIES. FARCE STUFFING. No. 72. Pound one pound of any lean raw meat, fowl, or game until quite smooth, add by degrees six ounces of butter, six eggs, and a pound of cold Bechamel Sauce (No. 34); beat all through a wire and hair sieve ; try a little in boiling water for a minute to see if it sets nicely, and if not add a little whipped cream until it arrives at a proper consistency, which should be about that of soft blancmange. FARCE STUFFING FOR RAISED PIES. No. 73. Fry in a stewpan one pound of fat bacon, cut into squares the size of dice, until it gets slightly browned. Add one and a half pounds of lean veal, poultry, or game, and three-quarters of a pound of calf’s liver cut into dice, some pepper and salt, and a dozen chopped mushrooms ; fry all until the meat is cooked, when pound the whole in a mortar and beat through a wire sieve. PICKLE FOR CURING HAMS AND TONGUES. No. 74. Proportions for fifty-five pounds of meat.—Half a pound of common salt, a pound of bay salt, two ounces of salt- petre, two ounces of black pepper, mixed well together.92 BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. Rub the meat with the mixture, turning and rubbing daily for a fortnight; add four pounds of treacle, and baste and turn every day for six weeks. If they are to be smoked they should be put in the smoking-room as soon as they are dried, say in about a week. Hams should not be used for six months, and in damp weather should be rubbed dry and put in a dry place, and in the summer in a cool one. PASTRIES. PASTRY FOR MEAT PIES. No. 75. Sift a pound of flour on a pastry board and arrange in a circle, put in half an ounce of salt, a gill of water, and make a soft smooth dough, cover with a cloth and let it remain ten minutes ; wash a third of a pound of lard or butter in cold water, dry it in a cloth and roll it out in a flattish shape—flour the pastry board ; roll out the dough to the same shape, only a little larger than the butter or lard, which put on the dough and wrap the dough round it with the hand; roll it out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, fold the paste in three and roll it out again, turn it over from right to left and roll it out, from left to right and roll it out, fold it in three twice, rolling it out each time, and it is then ready for use. PUFF PASTE. No. 76. Sift on a board half a pound of flour, make a hole in the centre, into which put three ounces of butter, a little salt, and a table-spoonful of water; work them together until smooth, place three ounces more butter in the centre and close the paste over it. Roll it out with a roller to a thin paste, fold it over again in three folds and roll'it out again; repeat this twice, allowing an interval of six or seven minutes, flouring the board if necessary, and it will be fit for use.FARCE STUFFINGS, PICKLE, AND PASTRIES. 93 pAte chaud pastry. No. 77. Make a paste of two pounds of sifted flour, one pound of lard or butter, salt to taste, and about half a pint of cold water; knead the whole until it becomes a smooth and rather hard paste, put it in a damp napkin for an hour, butter a raised pie-dish and line it with the paste half an inch thick and about half an inch above the dish ; line the inside of the pastry with buttered paper and fill with flour or rice, cover the flour or rice with another piece of buttered paper, wet the top of the pastry all round and put a covering of thin pastry over it; trim neatly, make a hole in the centre and ornament with scrolls or leaves, egg the surface and bake a nice light brown, about an hour; remove the cover, take out the rice or flour and buttered paper, take the case out of the dish, egg it all over, inside and out, and put it in the oven until all the moisture evaporates. PUDDING PASTE. No. 78. Chop very fine three ounces of kidney suet, free from skin, mix it in half a pound of flour, a tea-spoonful of salt, and sufficient water to make it a very firm paste ; roll it out a quarter of an inch thick when required for use.CHAPTER XVI. FISH AU GRATINS. BRILL, COD, HADDOCK, SALMON, OR TURBOT. No. 79. Pull into flakes any of the above fish which have been cooked, put them into a saucepan with some Bechamel sauce, make them very hot and fill as many scallop-shells as there are persons to breakfast, flavour with pepper and salt or cayenne pepper, and cover with a few fried bread- crumbs ; put them in the oven for a minute, and serve. TWICE LAID. No. 80. Prepare any of the above fish in the same way ; they can be put in omelets, or in walls of mashed potatoes on a flat dish and the fish in the centre. COD, BROILED. No. 81. Cut some slices from a crimped cod, pepper and salt them, put them in a wire gridiron and broil over a clear fire ; when cooked rub them with soft butter, and serve very hot. Allow one slice for every two people. GRA YLING. No. 82. Scale, clean, dry, egg and crumb and fry, as many small grayling as there are persons to breakfast, and serve very "hot.FISH AU GRATINS. 95 HADDOCK, BROILED. No. S3. Split, remove the bone, cut off the head, and put between a wire gridiron, a haddock about one or two pounds weight, pepper and salt, and broil before a clear fire; rub with soft butter, and serve. Allow one haddock for two people. KIPPERED HADDOCK. No. 84. Skin, trim, and bone a kippered haddock, cut it into fillets, about three inches square, and fry in butter for three or four minutes, and dish them up on an entree dish ; pour the butter from the pan over them, and serve. Allow a moderate-sized kipper for every two people. HERRING, BROILED. No. 85. Scale, wash, take out the gills and eyes of one herring for each person, dry them, and grill them on a reversible gridiron for about ten minutes; pepper and salt them, and serve very hot. KEDGEREE. No. 86. Boil two ounces of rice, put it in a sieve to dry; when dry put it in a stewpan with half a pound of any fish over from dinner, pulled into flakes, or a bloater boned and pulled into small pieces, two hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters or in pieces the size and shape of dice, an ounce and a half of butter, and a tea-spoonful of pepper and salt; simmer over a clear fire until very hot, stirring with a wooden spoon, and be careful not to break the egg or fish. For a change, a dessert-spoonful of dry curry powder can be sprinkled over the mixture, which I think greatly improves it. BLOATERS. No. 87. Cut off the head and tail, split in half, cutting down the back, take out the back-bone, broil over a clear fire, and serve on hot buttered toast. H96 BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. LOBSTER AU GRATIN. No. 88. Split, take all the meat from a fair-sized lobster, which cut into pieces the size of dice, take the inside, cream and coral, and mix it smoothly with half a pint of Bechamel Sauce, sprinkle with cayenne pepper, add the meat and warm the whole up; fill the body and tail shells of three small lobsters which must be kept for this purpose; rasp a few bread-crumbs over each shell, put a few small pieces of butter in each, and put them either in a Dutch or other oven for three or four minutes to get quite hot, and serve. LOBSTER FOR MAYONNAISE. No. 89. Take the meat out of the tail whole, cut it in slices about half an inch thick, mask with Mayonnaise Sauce (No. 55), and arrange neatly in rows round the dish with a salad of lettuce in the centre, and pour over the latter some Mayonnaise Sauce (No. 52). CHAUFROIX OF LOBSTER. No. 90. Prepare the lobster in the same way, only mask with Chaufroix Sauce (No. 55) and serve with salad de Idgumes in the centre. LOBSTER IN ASPIC. No. 91. Prepare some lobster as in Lobster qu Gratin, only use Mayonnaise instead of Bechamel Sauce, and instead of warm- ing, mix with a little mustard and cress, and having filled sorne darioles (which can be obtained for this purpose from Adams & Son, Haymarket) with aspic jelly, fill the centre with the lobster, and run in over it some more aspic jellyj which should be nearly cold. Put the darioles on ice and there keep them until just before being served, when turn them carefully out and garnish the dish with either chopped aspic jelly or mustard and cress.FISH AU GRATINS. 97 MACKEREL, BROILED. No. 92. Cut off the head and tail, split down the back, extract the bones of as many mackerel as are required (allow one for two people), put on a gridiron and broil over or in front of a clear fire; rub a little soft butter over, and sprinkle a little pepper and salt over it before serving. OYSTERS, TO OPEN AND SERVE. No. 93. It seems almost unnecessary to give directions for opening oysters, but I have seen them, poor things! so mangled, so mutilated, that I think a few words on the subject may be useful. Be careful that the oyster knives are sharp, if not, they break the shell instead of opening the oyster. Having seen that the knife is sharp, take a cloth and hold the oyster in it in your left hand on the table, the hinge part in the hollow of your hand and the flat shell uppermost; with the right hand insert the knife into the upper shell near the thin part, working it about until this is accomplished, when press the handle of the knife downwards and at the same time push it in along the top shell, moving it about to release the oyster; when released, pull the top shell off, turn the oyster over in the bottom shell, and be careful not to upset the liquor in it. If they are not to be used immediately put the top shell on each, as it prevents their getting dry. Remember the bottom shell is the proper shell in which they should be sent to table ; one generally in the country sees them served in the top shells, ivhich is exceedingly 'provincial and absolutely wrong. Hand round, or put on the table near them cayenne pepper, lemons divided into eight parts, and vinegar, or the following mixture : Chop half-a-dozen shalots very fine, throw them into cold water, strain and dry them in a cloth, put them in a butter-boat and add a dessert-spoonful of mignonette pepper, a dash of cayenne, and three table-spoonfuls of the best French vinegar, or lemon juice. With a tea-spoon put one or two drops on each oyster. H 298 BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. OYSTERS IN ASPIC. No. 94. Having removed the beards, saute the oysters for about a minute in butter just to set them, cut them in half, throw them into some good Cream Bechamel Sauce (No. 34), sprinkle with cayenne pepper, fill the darioles with aspic as in Receipt No. 91, fill up the centre with the oysters, and garnish with chopped aspic. OYSTERS A LA TARTAR. No. 95. In opening native oysters put aside all the nice round bottom shells which stand steadily, scald and clean them well, and keep them in case they are at any time required. Open as many oysters as are required, cut their beards off and scald them until set in their own liquor, and put them on a dish to cool. Put a pinch of mustard and cress in the bottom of each shell prepared as above, cut the oysters in half and place four half oysters in a pyramid shape on the top of the mustard and cress, mask each shell just before serving with a dessert-spoonful of Mayonnaise Sauce (No. 52) made with a 7/^77 trifling amount of vinegar, a few chopped gherkins and capers, and just a sprinkling of cayenne pepper on the top of the mayonnaise. Allow two for each person, and garnish the plates or dishes on which they are served with parsley. OYSTER KABOBS. No. 96. Open as many oysters as are required, keeping the liquor; remove the beards and hard substance; cut with a cutter the same size as the oysters eight pieces of thin fat bacon for each six oysters; cut as many small wooden skewers as there are people, put six oysters on each skewer with a piece of the bacon between each oyster and at each end. Mix with some bread-crumbs some cayenne pepper and salt, or Searcy Salt; egg and crumb the kabobs, put them in a frying basket and into boiling lard and fry a nice lightFISH AU GRATINS. 99 brown. Stew the beards and hard parts in the liquor, strain through a fine colander, and add an equal proportion of Brown Sauce (No. 35), and reduce to half-glaze ; add a squeeze of lemon, a little cayenne pepper, and serve with the kabobs. PERCH, BROILED. No. 97. Wash, scale, clean as many perch as required, about one pound each (allow one for each person), split down the centre of the back in half, take out the back-bone as clean as possible; pepper and salt, and broil on a wire gridiron over or before a clear fire, and rub with soft butter just before serving. PLAICE, FILLET OF. No. 98. Clean, skin, wash, and fillet a plaice in the same way as soles are filleted; if over two pounds, the fillets must be divided in two or three pieces, egg and crumb, and fry in boiling lard. SALMON, TO FILLET. No. 99. Cut off the head and the tail five inches from the end, cut the salmon in half, dividing down the back (the knife must be very sharp); take out the back and all the long bones, cut the salmon in neat cutlets of about half an inch thick—a salmon about si.x; pounds is the best size. The tail can be boiled and not wasted—used for coquille or kedgeree. A salmon filleted in this way will make several dishes. SALMON, BROILED. No. 100. Cut a slice about an inch thick from a whole fish, or place some cutlets, filleted as above, in a wire.gridiron, and broil before or over a clear fire; rub with soft butter, sprinkle with cayenne pepper and salt, or Searcy Salt, and serve. Allow one slice of a good-sized salmon for two people, or two fillets for each person.loo BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS CHAUFROIX OF SALMON. No. loi. Place as many cutlets as are required in a saute pan, and boil until cooked, put them on a sieve to drain and get cold, when mask with Chaufroix Sauce (No. 40); arrange them neatly round a dish, and fill up the centre with salad de Idgumes. CHAUFROIX OF SALMON. No. 102. The same as (No. loi), only mask with Mayonnaise Sauce (No. 55), and serve in centre a salad of nice white lettuce mixed with mayonnaise sauce. COQUILLES OF SALMON. No. 103. Pull into flakes some cold cooked salmon, put them into a stewpan with some butter (about three ounces to a pound), a gill of picked shrimps to the same weight, some sliced mushrooms, a little half-glaze, and some cayenne pepper and salt, or a little Searcy Salt; simmer for five minutes, fill some scallop-shells, one for each person, cover over with some fried bread-crumbs and some small pieces of butter, and put in the oven or Dutch oven until hot and serve. SALMON CUTLETS A EINDIENNE. No. 104. Egg and crumb as many cutlets as are required, put in a wire frying basket and fry a nice light brown, and serve with some Indian Sauce (No. 50) ; or saute some cutlets in butter, arrange in an entree dish, and pour over them the Indian sauce. KEDGEREE OF SALMON. No. 105. See Kedgeree (No. 86).FISH AU GRATINS. lor MAYONNAISE OF SALMON. No. io6. Pull into flakes some boiled salmon, put in the centre of a flat dish, make a wall of nice white Cos lettuce, garnish Avith some boned and filleted sardines and anchovies, and pour over the whole sufficient Mayonnaise Sauce (No. 52) to cover it. This i%much more suitable for race luncheons, as the sauce can be carried in a bottle or jug, and poured over just before serving. KIPPERED SALMON, BROILED. No. 107. Cut into cutlets as in Receipt No. 100, and saute in butter for three or four minutes, and serve very hot at breakfast or at supper on a crouton of toast the same size. SMELT, FRIED. No. 108. Take out the gills, wash, dry, egg and crumb with very finely grated crumbs, as many as are required, put in a frying basket and fry a nice light brown in boiling lard. They should be immersed in it, to be well cooked. SOLE, BROILED. No. 109. Skin, cut off the head, and with a sharp knife cut round between the fins and the flesh, put in a wire gridiron and broil over a clear fire, sprinkle with pepper and salt, rub with soft butter and serve very hot. SOLE A LA COLBERT. No. no. Trim a good-sized sole, cut off the head and cut the flesh straight down the centre to the bone, raise the fillets on each side from the back-bone on the upper side only, egg and crumb and fry in boiling lard; when cooked,break the back-bone in the centre and lift it carefully out of the fish on the side in which the fillets were released from the bone. Fill up with some Maitre d^Hotel Butter (No. 38), close the fillets, and serve very hot.102 BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. SOLE, TO FILLET. No. III. Skin, clean, cut off the head and tail and round between the fins and flesh; cut through the flesh to the bone, each side of the back-bone from head to tail, slide the knife between the meat and the bone, holding the fillets with the left hand and pulling off each as they -are cut; repeat this each side of the back-bone, when turn over and cut the fillets from other side in the same way. CHAUFROIX OF SOLE. No. 112. For this purpose it is better that soles should not be over half a pound each ; fillet as in Receipt No. iii, cross the ends neatly over each other, about an inch from the ends; arrange in a saute pan and boil for five or six minutes. Put them on a sieve to drain and get cold, mask with Chaufroix Sauce (No. 40) and Sauce (No. 35), arrange them either on some chopped aspic jelly, or salad de legumes, garnished with aspic cut in fancy shapes. SOLE, FRIED FILLET OF. No. 113. Egg and crumb some fillet of sole, fry nice and dry, and serve in a napkin. SOLE, MAYONNAISE OF. No. 114. Prepare the soles as in No. in, arrange them neatly round some good white Cos lettuce cut in lengths of an inch in the centre of the dish, and mask the whole with some good Mayonnaise Sauce (No. 52) made rather thick. TROUT, FRIED. No. 115. Clean, scrape, take out the gills and eyes, egg and crumb as many trout as are required; fry a nice light brown in boiling lard, put on a sieve to dry, and serve one for each person.FISH AU GRATINS. 103 TROUT, BROILED. No. 116. Scrape, clean, cut off the heads and split in half, cutting down the back, as many trout as are required, take out the back-bones and broil over a clear fire in a wire gridiron ; rub with soft butter, sprinkle with pepper and salt and serve, if a pound in weight, one for two persons. WHITING, BROILED. No. 117. Put as many small whiting as are required between a wire gridiron, and broil over a clear fire; rub with soft batter, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and serve one for each person. WHITING, FRIED. No. iiS. Egg and crumb one for each person, and fry a nice light brown in boiling lard. FISH ROLLS. No. 119. Make some Luncheon Rolls (No. 4), cut off the tops and take out all the crumbs and fill with a mixture of some mustard and cress, and either cold lobster, salmon, sole, shrimps, prawns, and Mayonnaise Sauce (No. 52); flavour with salt and cayenne pepper, or Searcy Salt, put the cover on. There must not be too much mayonnaise sauce, or it will make the roll damp and flabby, which is to be avoided. Rolls can also be made the size of a hunting-case, the inside taken out and filled with fish or chicken salad as above.CHAPTER XVII. MEATS, MEAT PIES AND PUDDINGS, FILLETS OF BEEF BROILED A LA FRANCAISE. No. 120. Cut as many fillets, three-quarters of an inch thick, as are required from a rump fillet of beef, and broil over a quick fire, but not too close to it, turning frequently ; rub with a bit of butter, and serve with fried potato chips. FILLETS OF BEEF A LA DIABLE. No, I2I. Boiled in the same way as No. 120, and pour over on an entree dish half a pint of Devil Sauce (No. 44). BEEFSTEAK. No. 122. This is a very difficult dish to serve really good in a small house. A rump-steak to be good should be cut from a well-hung rump, and cooked immediately. Butchers out of London do not hang their meat, and, except in a large house, the consumption is not sufficient to hang a rump of beef, especially for rump-steaks. I will, however, give the proper directions, and it will not be my fault if they are not carried out. Cut a steak one and a half inch thick from a well-hung rump of beef, beat it, put it between a wire gridiron, and broil over a quick fire, but not too near, or the outside will be burnt, the inside raw. It will take about five minutes to do each side. Rub it with butter, a sprinkling of salt, a squeeze of lemon, and put it on a very hot dish and very hot cover; and there are few better things.105 MEATS, MEAT PIES AND PUDDINGS. BEEFSTEAK, BRAISED. No. 123. Fry in a braising-pan, in a small piece of butter, a beefsteak two inches thick, until it is nicely browned both sides. Take it out, put a table-spoonful of flour into the pan, and mix it smoothly with the butter, then add a quart of Stock (No. 27), and bring it to the boil. Return the beefsteak, and add a dozen small onions, half a pint of carrots cut in various shapes, a turnip also cut in shapes, a stick of celery cut up, some boughs of parsley, two bay leaves dipped in salt to taste, and let the whole braise until tender. Put in a deep dish with all the vegetables ; or, if for a shooting-lunch, send it out in the braising-pan, wrapped in flannel. BRISKET OF BEEF, BOILED. No. 124. Trim about fourteen pounds of brisket of beef, mix together one pound of bay salt, half a pound of common salt, two ounces of pounded saltpetre, one ounce of black pepper, one pound of treacle. Boil these ingredients until well incorporated, pour the mixture over the meat in a large dish or pipkin; turn daily, pouring the mixture over the top side, and continue this for at least fourteen days. To cook, put it in a stewpan of cold water, and let it boil gently until quite tender, when draw out the bones and place it between two dishes with a weight on the upper one until it gets cold. When cold, trim it into a neat square and mask with glaze. COLD BRISKET OF BEEF, STEWED. No. 125. Cut a square piece of brisket of beef about twelve pounds, rub it with a little salt and sugar before putting it to stew. Put it in a braising pan with sufficient Stock (No. 27) to cover it; put in the pan six carrots, six onions, two pounded allspice, and let the whole stew gently until tender. Take out the beef, draw the bones, and put itic6 BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. between two dishes with a weight on the upper one to get cold; strain the stock to remove all the vegetables, remove all grease, clarify it, add the juice of three lemons; when the beef is trimmed, mask it all over with the jelly, and cut the remainder in squares to garnish the dish; add aspic jelly each day until consumed. BEEF TONGUE, TO CURE AND COOK. No. 126. Cure as directed in No. 74, and when fit to cook boil gently for two hours, put it into cold water, and remove the outer skin, and garnish with glaze. HAM. No. 127. Having cured, as in direction for curing Hams (No. 74), and having hung for not less than six months, wash, scrape, and trim the ham, put it in a stewpan, with sufficient meat stock to cover it, and add some carrots, onions, celery. Let the whole boil up and simme|r for four or five hours according to the size of the ham.' Let it get cold in the stock. Skin it, cover it with glaze, and garnish the dish with chopped aspic jelly in cold weather, and square of aspic when it is warm. HAM AND BACON, TO BROIL. No. 128. Be careful that the slices are of the same thickness and are cut from an uncooked ham, and that the rind (if an old one) and the pieces near the bone are trimmed; put in a cold frying-pan on not too quick a fire and fry about six or seven minutes, turning frequently. Bacon can be done in the same way, only it does not take so long to cook. LAMB CUTLETS, BROILED. No. 129. Trim a neck of lamb into neat cutlets, and broil over a quick fire and serve with Mint Sauce (No. 56).107 MEATS, MEAT PIES AND PUDDINGS. LAMB CUTLETS, EGGED AND CRUMBED. No. 130. Instead of broiling, prepare the cutlets as above, egg and crumb them, fry them in boiling lard, put them on a sieve to dry for a minute or two, and serve with fillet of cucumber or Mint Sauce (No. 56). LAMB CUTLETS IN ASPIC. No. 131. Roast a neck of lamb and let it get cold ; trim neatly and cut into cutlets and mask with Mint Jelly (No. 57); arrange them round an entree dish with salad de legumes in the centre. MUTTON CHOPS. No. 132. Hang a loin of mutton until tender, a week in the summer unless the weather is very bad, and a fortnight in the winter; cut the chops in bones, that is about an inch thick, broil on a wire gridiron over a clear fire, being care- ful not to put it too near the fire, and turn it frequently for about eight minutes. Dish each chop on a hot-water plate zvith a hot cover, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and rub a small piece of butter on each. No gravy. MUTTON CUTLETS, BROILED. No. 133. Hang a neck of mutton in the same way, cut into neat cutlets about half an inch thick, cook and serve as in Receipt No. 132, only broil for five minutes instead of eight. MUTTON CUTLETS, FRIED. No. 134. The same, only when cut, flour, egg and crumb, put into a wire frying basket and fry in boiling lard, until a nice light brown; arrange them round the centre of an entree dish, and add half a pint of Devil Sauce (No‘. 44 or No. 46), Indian Sauce (No. 50), or Brown Sauce (No. 35).io8 BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. MUTTON, HASHED. No. 135. Cut some thin slices from a roast leg of mutton, put an ounce of butter into a stewpan, add two small onions, a little parsley, and a pickled walnut chopped fine; let these ingredients fry for two or three minutes, being careful not to burn any of them, stir in a table-spoonful of flour until quite smooth, when- add three-quarters of a pint of Consommd (No. 27) ; let the whole boil up, stirring until it does so, when put it on the side and let it simmer for fifteen minutes. Strain, add a table-spoonful of mushroom or walnut catsup, a squeeze of lemon, and a tea-spoonful of Searcy Salt; put the meat into the sauce, and let it stew for three-quarters of an hour. If it boils, it makes it hard and spoils it. MUTTON, HARICOT OF. No. 136. Cut the cutlets of a neck of mutton into the same shapes and sizes as for broiling, fry them in a saute pan in an ounce of butter, just browning each side; put them in a stewpan, and add to the butter a table-spoonful of flour and incorporate it smoothly ; add a quart of Stock (No. 27), bring it to the boil, and put it into the stewpan with the cutlets ; cut into balls two turnips, three carrots, add a dozen small onions, and fry'the whole in an ounce of butter until browned, when put them also into the stewpan, flavour with pepper and salt, and let the whole stew until tender. MUTTON POTATO PIE. No. 137. Trim some mutton cutlets from the best part of a neck of mutton, pepper and salt each, and lay them in layers in a potato-pie dish with a layer of sliced onion and potato between each; fill the dish full up with some Stock (No. 27), put the perforated cover on the top, and cover it over with some mashed potato an inch and a half thick, bake an hour, and serve.109 MEATS, MEAT PIES AND PUDDINGS. MUTTON KIDNEYS, BROILED. No. 138. Skin as many kidneys as are required, pepper and salt them, put them on wire skewers, and fry in boiling- lard ; they should be rather underdone. Slit each about half-way through, fill with fine herbs butter, and serve very hot. MUTTON KIDNEYS AND BACON. No. 139. Skin, cut in half, egg and crumb, fry the bacon in a frying-pan, when cooked remove it, and put in the kidneys ; fry a nice light brown and serve in an entree dish, alter- nately a kidney and layer of bacon, and put round them in the dish a spoonful of Fine Herbs Sauce (No. 49) for each person. MUTTON KIDNEYS, DEVILLED. No. 140. Cook as in No. 139, only when cooked dip in Devil Sauce (No. 44), and instead of fine herbs butter fill them when dished with Devil Sauce (No. 44 or No. 46). ' MUTTON KIDNEYS, SAUTE OK No. 141. Skin and cut in thickish slices as many kidneys as will be required, put them in a stewpan with some butter, some chopped parsley, and if the flavour of onion is not objected to, some chopped chives or a small onion, and a little pepper and salt. Saute them for two or three minutes, shaking the stewpan so that nothing may catch, add a little glaze, or if there is any fresh puree of tomatoes, a table-spoonful or two, and serve very hot on squares of buttered toast. MUTTON KIDNEYS, STEWED. No. 142. Skin and cut as in No. 139, sautd them in the same way, stir in sufficient flour to make the sauce rather thick,no BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. when add for every three kidneys a gill and a half of Fine Herbs Sauce (No. 49) ; let them stew for five minutes, flavour with pepper or cayenne pepper and salt, and serve with fried sippets of toast round the dish. BLACK PUDDINGS. No. 143. Catch the blood when the pig is killed, stirring in a tea-spoonful of salt to each quart to prevent its curdling. Simmer in one of Adams’ milk saucepans half a pint of groats until tender, putting to them water sufficient to make them swell. Strain the blood and to each quart add one pound of the inside fat cut in squares smaller than dice, stir in the groats and add a quarter of a pint of bread- crumbs, pepper and salt to taste, and a table-spoonful of chopped sage, of thyme, and of green onions or leeks; mix well, and fill the largest gut of a large pig, tying it in lengths of eight or nine inches. Put them in boiling water and simmer for twenty minutes and prick them. To cook, fry as other sausages. SAUSAGES, AN OXFORD RECEIPT. No. 144. Pound separately in a mortar half a pound of pork and half a pound of veal, a quarter of which should be fat, and then mix them together; add a quarter of a pound of suet chopped very fine, half of a halfpenny roll soaked in water, two eggs beaten, just a taste of sage if liked, a drachm of pepper, and three-quarters of an ounce of salt; mix the whole well together and pass through a sausage machine. To use, make into cakes, or roll into rolls, fry in lard, or egg and crumb and fry. SAUSAGES AUX TRUFFES, ETC. No. 145. One pound of pork, one-third of which should be fat, two ounces of bread-crumbs soaked in milk, a drachm andIll MEATS, MEAT PIES AND PUDDINGS. a half of pepper, half an ounce of salt, a spoonful of chopped sage if liked; mix well, and pass through a sausage machine and cook as Receipt No. 144. In the centre of either of the sausage meats when made into cakes, a puree of apple, a saute of mushrooms or of tomatoes can be inserted. SWEETBREAD CUTLETS. No. 146. Soak in water for six hours as many calf’s sweetbreads as are required, changing the water four times. Simmer for ten minutes, put them between two dishes until cold, cut them in slices about half an inch thick, egg and crumb and fry a nice light brown ; serve with a little Brown Clear Sauce (No. 35), slightly reduced. VEAL CUTLETS. No. 147. Cut into neat cutlets from a leg of veal, egg and crumb and fry in boiling lard, and serve in an entree dish with alternate slices of fried bacon and a little Brown Sauce (No. 35) reduced to half-glaze, to which add a squeeze of lemon. CALES LIVER AND BACON. No. 148. Cut in slices the size and shape of a cutlet, fry in a frying-pan as many slices of bacon as slices of liver; remove them, and fry the liver in the fat (it should not be overdone) ; arrange the liver and bacon neatly round the dish, and serve with a gill of Fine Herbs Sauce (No. 49). PIE.S. BEEFSTEAK PIE. No. 149. Cut as many pounds of rump fillet of beef as will be required into slices about an eighth of an inch thick, pepper, salt, and sprinkle with parsley, and the slightest III2 BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. soupqon of chives or onion. Arrange in a pie-dish slices of the beef thus prepared and alternate slices of hard-boiled egg until quite full and oval in the centre, fill it up with Consomme (No. 27), put a lining of Pastry (No. 75) round the border of the dish, wet it on the top, and cover it with a covering of the same paste, leaving a hole in the centre; egg the surface, and bake for an hour. When getting cool, if to be eaten cold, inject into it as much good meat stock or Espagnole Sauce made very hot. BALLOTJNES. No. 150. Ballotines are small Galantines, and one bird will make two, or if a large bird three or four dishes. The proportions are as follows : To four pounds of raw meat, add a quarter of a pound of truffles, ditto of ham cut in pieces the size of dice, one pound of Farce Stuffing (Np. 73), made from the same meat as whatever the Ballotine is composed of; mix all the ingredients well together, flavour with pepper and salt, and roll into rolls, and then into half of whatever bird the Ballotine is to be made, tie the skin securely up, and in muslin as in a Galantine. Put it in boiling Stock (No. 27), and at once on the side of the fire^ and let it stew for three-quarters of an hour—if it once boils it F spoilt—and complete as in Galantines’(No. 153). If the birds used are small, such as grouse or partridge, the proportions must be reduced in proportion, except the truffles. CHICKEN PIE. No. 151. Skin and fillet (No. 162) as many fowls as will be required, pepper, salt, and sprinkle with chopped parsley arrange the fillets in the dish or dishes with sliced eggs, fill with good White Stock (No. 28), cover with pastry, and bake as above; and if to be used cold, fill up through the hole in the top with good Stock (No. 27).MEATS, MEAT PIES AND PUDDINGS. If GAME PIE. No. 152. Prepare sufficient Farci Meat (No. 73) and boned game (No, 161) to fill the raised pie-dish, when proceed thus ; Ste\y the bones of as much game as is to be used with three carrots, two onions, a stick of celery, and a small bunch of sweet herbs, in two quarts of water until all the goodness is extracted (these proportions are for a good- sized pie); strain, and flavour with salt and sugar, let it get cold, and remove all grease and fat, colour with some brown colouring, clarify and reduce to substance of nearly half-glaze. Having cut the boned game into neat fillets (No. 162), lay them in a saute pan, and fry in a little butter until set, when line the dish with rows of the farci meat and rows of game, sprinkling each row with pepper and salt, a little chopped parsley, or slices of truffles, zvhich. is much the best, and adding some of the reduced stock to each row. Fill to within an inch of the top of the dish, when pour the remainder of the stock over it. Put it in a stewpan of warm water, and let it simmer for two or three hours, according to the size of the pie; when cooked, press the top even with a dish, and when cold cover the top with Aspic Jelly (No. 29). GALANTINES. No. 153. Bone whatever bird the Galantine is to be made of, according to Receipt No. 161, and lay it on the table with the inside uppermost; cut the meat from the thick parts, and distribute it equally over the inside, sprinkle it with , pepper and salt, and put a layer of sliced truffles over it. Make some farci meat with veal, or better still from the same kind of bird which is used for the Galantine, as in No. 73; put a layer of this over the meat of the bird, then a layer of sliced tongue, then a layer of the meat, cut from another bird of the same sort, then a layer of truffles, then farci meat, then tongue, then meat, then truffles, and last farci114 BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. meat; season each layer with pepper and salt, roll it up and fasten securely with string, tie it up in a well-buttered cloth, and put it into a stewpan with two onions, two carrots sliced, a stick of celery, a bunch or two of parsley, a dozen pepper- corns, an ounce of salt, and sufficient White Stock (No. 28) to cover it; let it simmer gently for three hours, strain, and let it get nearly cold, take off the cloth and wring it dry, put the Galantine in the cloth again, tie it up securely, and place it in a dish with the fat from the stock on it, and on the top put a heavy weight to press it into shape, and let it get cold. Let the stock get cold, take off the grease, and if necessary, clarify it as in the clarification of stocks, reduce it to half-glaze, add some sugar, lemon juice, and a spray or two of green tarragon, allow it to simmer for a few minutes, when strain and allow it to get cool but not set; take the Galantine out of the cloth, and glaze it with jelly all over, let the rest get cold, and cut it in squares and various shapes, and garnish the Galantine and dish with it. G/iOUSB PIE. No. 154. Skin and cut into neat fillets (No. 162) as many grouse as will be required, put a beefsteak in the bottom of the dish, fill the dish with the fillets, neatly arranged, peppered and salted, intermixed with sliced hard-boiled eggs; fill up with some reduced stock made from the bones and carcases of the grouse, cover with a thin lining of fillet of beef, line the top and cover the dish with pastry (No. 75)> bake as in Beefsteak Pie. HUNTING PIES. No. 155. Having obtained a baking tin the size of the hunting- case, or if^carried in a pocket, a tin three inches square and three-quarters deep, line with Pastry for Meat Pies (No. 75)> not quite a quarter of an inch thick. Cut in squares, the size of dice, either the lean of fillet of beef, mutton, chicken and ham, veal and ham, grouse, hare, partridge, orMEATS, MEAT PIES AND PUDDINGS. 115 pheasant; season mutton or beef with chopped parsley, and if not disliked, the slightest soupcon of chives or onion, and the other meats with sliced mushrooms or truffles, and the whole with pepper and salt; roll the meats in the seasoning and fill the tins, wet the top of the pastry in the tin and cover with pastry, leaving a small hole in the top; close the edges with a fork, and bake in a quick oven for fift}^ minutes. Let the pie get nearly cold, when take out of tin, and if the bottom and sides are not sufficiently baked, egg all over and put in the oven until the pastry is cooked; take them out, and let them get nearly cold, when inject through the hole in the top some good meat jelly into the meat, and some aspic in the poultry and game pies. Let the pies get cold, and they are ready for use. CURRY PIES. No. 156. The same as above, only for every pound of meat used, add with the seasoning a table-spoonful of dry curry powder. FISH PIES. No. 157. Pies in the same way can be made of cooked salmon or sole and hard-boiled egg, cutting the fish in flakes 01- squares, and slices of egg. in proportion of one-third, lining the tin thinly with Puff Paste (No. 76), and seasoning with fish jelly or good White Sauce (No. 62). The pies must be baked quickly, so as not to dry up the fish, and when nearly cold, some hot white sauce or fish jelly must be inserted as in the meat pies. These pies can be made in rather larger tins, and are very good for racing, shooting, travelling, or fishing luncheons. The tins for baking them can be obtained from Messrs. Adams, in the Haymarket, as designed by Monsieur Peguinot, of St. James’ Street, who will also supply pies to order if required.ii6 BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. PARTRIDGE PIE. No. 158. The same as Grouse Pie, substituting partridge for grouse. Pigeon Pie can be made in the same manner. PREPARATION FOR FILLING pJtA CHAUD CASES. No. 159. Fillet, as in Receipt No. 162, chicken, pheasants, part- ridges, pigeons, larks, or quails, whole. Have cut into neat joints, viz., the meat from the back cut off and cut into lengths two inches long, and the legs boned and cut into three or four fillets each ; put the sufficient pieces of one sort, or all mixed, to fill the pate chaud case, into a saute pan with two or three ounces of butter and fry until lightly coloured ; take them out and put them in a stew- pan with a quart of reduced Consomme (No. 27), half a pint of mushrooms sliced, a dozen truffles cut into dice shapes, some pepper and salt, and a wine-glassful of sherry, and let them stezu, not boil, for half an hour, or until tender ; when in a tepid state arrange them in the pite chaud case, the liquor in which they were stewed should be poured over them, leaving the centre hollow, which fill with the mushrooms and truffles. The trimmings and carcases of whatever has been used for the fillets should be put into a quart of good Consomme (No. 27), in a stew-pan with a bunch of sweet herbs and be simmered for three or four hours, when it should be strained, allowed to get cold, all the grease removed, and, if necessary, be clarified as in Stock (No. 27), and reduced to strong stock ; this should be poured over the fillet and the remainder into a flat dish, and when cold cut into shapes and the top of the pate chaud case filled with it. POT-POVRRI. No. 160. Fillet as in above Receipt (No. 159) any poultry or game, rabbits or hares, season with pepper and salt, andMEATS, MEAT PIES AND PUDDINGS. 117 chopped parsley; cut some lean ham in squares double the size of dice, two or three calf’s feet boned, half-boiled, and cut in lengths of two inches, a pint of mushrooms, a dozen button onions, three or four carrots cut into various shapes, and a glass of sherry poured over the whole. Fill the pot-pourri dish (which should be of an oblong shape, about seven inches wide in the centre, twelve inches long and six inches deep) with the fillets, and garnish, and cover it with a thick covering of flour and water paste made very thick so as to hermetically seal it. It should be braised in a sloiv oven for four hours and allowed to get cold, the covering should be taken off, the fat, if any, on the top be removed, it should then be warmed and filled up with stock. The trimmings should be stewed in the same way as in Receipt No. 159, and the stock therefrom poured into the pot-pourri.CHAPTER XVIII. POULTRY AND GAME. TO BONE. No. i6i. Put the bird with the breast downwards, the back upwards, on the table, with the head towards you ; with a sharp cook’s knife cut a straight line down the back through the skin and flesh to the bone. Release with the thumb and forefinger of the left hand the skin and flesh on the left side nearest you, and with the right hand keep cutting away the flesh from the bone, pulling it away clear as it is cut with the left hand; when the wing joint is arrived at, cut the joint clean away and continue cutting close to the bone until all the meat from the left breast is released, when return to the back and continue to clear the meat in the same way until the leg is reached, when twist it round, which will enable you to get the skin over it and arrive at the joint, which cut away from the body bone. Proceed with the right side in the same way, only use your left hand to cut, your right hand to pull the meat away, and the bird is clear of the carcase. Lay the bird flat on the table, inside upwards, when cut out the wing bone and proceed to the legs ; cut the meat on the inside of each thigh down to the bone, and clear the meat from the bone, cutting it each side until you can raise the bone out; when finished, cut up the inside of the drumstick to the bone, and proceed in the same way as in the thigh, when the bone can be taken out, and the bird, free of bone, is ready for use.119 POULTRY AND GAME. TO FILLET COOKED GAME OR POULTRY. No. 162. Cut the bird in half with a large sharp knife straight down the middle of the breast bone; lay each half on the table and take out the breast bone from each side. If for cold luncheons, such as shooting or racing, or for devils, and the bird be a small one, such as a grouse or partridge, chop off the wing bone to within an inch of the meat, and the leg bones to the meat on the drum- stick, and trim all skin neatly round, and the bird is ready to serve. If a chicken, guinea-fowl, pheasant, or duck, after having removed the breast bone, cut the legs from the wings, the pinion bones off to within an inch of the meat, and trim each neatly round the bone; and if a large chicken or duck, divide into two fillets, cut the leg in two, chopping the drumstick off close to the meat. Trim the fillets and joints neatly round; there should be no skin hanging round the edges. For ball suppers or for chaufroix, the legs should be boned and the fillets cut smaller, and for the latter, all .skin removed. It depends, of course, on the size of the bird, the number of fillets which can be cut from each joint; for instance, in a large chicken, each wing and thigh can be cut into at least three parts. The drumsticks should not be used unless absolutely required. The neatness of the dishes depends on the filleting, and great care is necessary. CHICKEN, TO BRAISE. No. 163. Truss a chicken, cover it with layers of fat bacon, put it in a braising or stew-pan with a quart of White Stock (No. 28), two carrots, two onions quartered, and half a stick of celery; bring it to the boil at once, put it on the side of the fire, and let it simmer for fifty minutes.120 BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. CHICKEN, TO BROIL. No. 164. A roast chicken can be filleted, sprinkled with pepper and salt, and broiled over a clear fire; or sauted in butter and sprinkled with pepper and salt, and served very- hot with broiled ham handed round. CHICKEN, TO ROAST. No. 165. Truss a chicken, rub over with soft butter or lard, cover it with fat slices of bacon, and roast it before a quick fire from thirty to fifty minutes according to size ; five minutes before serving, if covered with bacon, remove it, take off the spit, and put it before the fire to brown nicely. CHAU FRO IX OF CHICKEN. No. 166. Braise, and when cold fillet as in No. 162. Make some White Chaufroix Sauce (No. 40), mask each fillet with it, and put in a plate on ice; when one side is cold mask the other, and when cold give it a second coating. Arrange neatly round a dish, with a salad de legumes in centre. CHAUFROIX OF CHICKEN IN ASPIC. No. 167. Proceed as in foregoing receipt, and when completed put some Aspic Jelly (No. 29}, which must be cold but not set, down the centre of each fillet; let it set, when add some more aspic each side, let it set, and continue adding in the same way until the whole top is covered. The fillets should be neatly arranged round a dish with slices of tongue between each, and the centre filled with chopped aspic. CHAUFROIX OF CHICKEN A LA PORTUGAISE. No. 168. The same as the above, only mask with Chaufroix Sauce a la Portugaise (No. 42).POULTRY AND GAME. I2I CROQUETTES OF CHICKEN. No. 169. Chop the breast of a cold chicken with two ounces of lean ham, mix it well together, and put it into a saucepan with three-quarters of a pint of Cream Bechamel Sauce (No. 34), warm it up and pour it into a flat dish, and let it get cold. Cut it into various shapes, either cutlets or in pieces to roll into the shape of corks, on a board covered with a thin coating of flour, egg with an egg-brush, roll in very finely grated bread-crumbs, arrange in a frying- basket, and fry in boiling lard, which should cover them, for tAvo minutes. CURRY OF CHICKEN. No. 170. Fillet an uncooked chicken as in No. 162, put the fillets into a frying-pan Avith an ounce of butter, tAvo onions sliced, two carrots cut into shape of dice, and fry for a quarter of an hour, being careful that the onions do not burn; turn the Avhole into a stew-pan, and add three- quarters of a pint of Consomme (No. 27), and two apples quartered and all the peel and core removed; let the whole steAV until tender, Avhen strain, put the fillets on a dish, the vegetables, omitting the carrots, through a hair sieve, stir in Avith stock a dessert-spoonful of Brown Roux (No. 31), and let it boil up; return the fillet and beaten onions and apple, add a table-spoonful of Madras chutnee (which can be obtained of Messrs. Stembridge, of Leicester Square), and a table-spoonful of sweet chutnee, flavour Avith salt and sugar; let the whole simmer for tAventy minutes, and serve Avith rice boiled nice and dry, and handed round in a separate dish. CURRY OF CHICKEN, DRY. No. 171. Fry over a sIoav fire in a saute pan half a Spanish onion cut in squares the shape and size of dice, in two ounces of butter, with the fillets of a chicken, filleted as122 BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. above, for half an hour; stir in two table-spoonfuls of Madras curry powder and put the meat into an entree dish, and add three table-spoonfuls of cream to the sautd pan just to catch up all the liquor and curry powder, pour it over the fillets, and hand round some boiled rice just sauted with a trifle of butter, but not to be wet, and sprinkled with a little dry curry powder. CHICKEN, DEVIL OF. No. 172. Fillet a roast chicken as in No. 165, grill it over a clear fire in a wire gridiron, put it in an entree dish and pour over it half a pint of Devil Sauce (No. 44). CHICKEN, DEVIL OF. No. 173. Fillet a chicken as above, score and rub it well over with Devil Sauce (No. 45), sprinkle it with bread-crumbs, put in a wire gridiron and broil over a clear fire, and serve in an entree dish ; add to what remains of the sauce, after rubbing the fillets, an equal portion of glaze and butter, make it very hot and serve in the dish with the broil. CHICKEN, DEVIL OF. No. 174. Fillet a chicken as above, saute in butter until cooked,, put it in an entree dish, masking it with Devil Sauce a la Perry (No. 46). For all broils and devils, chicken and eame should be underdone when roasted. O CHICKEN, ROAST COLD FILLETS OF. No. 175. Roast, and when cold cut into neat fillets as in direc- tions for filleting (No. 162); if for ball suppers arrange the fillets neatly round the dish with slices of tongue or ham between each fillet, and square of aspic jelly in centre.POULTRY AND GAME. 123 CHICKEN, FRICASSEE OF. No. 176. Fillet a cold braised chicken (No. 162), put it in a stew- pan with three-quarters of a pint of Cream Bechamel Sauce (No. 34) with two ounces of butter stirred in, and two dozen fresh button mushrooms, and let it stew for twenty minutes ; arrange the fillets neatly round the dish, with the sauce poured over them and the mushrooms in the centre. CHICKEN, GALANTINE OF. No. 177. Prepare as in receipt for Galantine (No. 153)- CHICKEN, EALLO TINES OF. No. 178. Prepare as in receipt for Ballotines (No. 150). CHICKEN, MAYONNAISE OF. No. 179. Fillet a cold braised chicken as in No. 162, mask it with Mayonnaise Sauce (No. 55), cut some nice crisp white Cos lettuce into pieces about two inches long and arrange neatly in an oval shape on a flat dish, put on the top some sardines, scraped and filleted, anchovies washed, scraped and also filleted, hard-boiled egg quartered ; mask the whole with half a pint of Mayonnaise Sauce (No. 52), and tomatoes, cucumber, and beetroot cut into various shapes to ornament the surface. CHICKEN, SAUTE OF. No. 180. Fillet a nice young chicken, not cooked ; fry the fillets in a saute pan in an ounce of butter for fifteen minutes, put the fillets into a stew-pan and add one table-spoonful of sherry, one table-spoonful of Espagnole Sauce (No. 48), and a gill of Brown Clear Sauce (No. 35); add either a124 BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. table-spoonful of puree of tomato, and a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, tarragon, or chervil, a dessert-spoonful of chopped chives, ditto of sugar, or a pint of fresh mush- rooms, or three table-spoonfuls of sliced truffles—the various names will be : Saute aux Fines Herbes, or aux Cham- pignons, or aux Truffles. DUCK, BRAISED AUX NAVETS. No. i8i. Fry a duck in a braising pan in a little butter until it is nearly browned all over. Take it out and incorporate with the fat.in the pan a table-spoonful of flour, add a quart of Stock (No. 27), bring it to the boil, return the duck and garnish with four onions, three shalots, three carrots all quartered, two bay leaves, a sprig of parsley, and a salt-spoonful of Nepaul pepper. Let it braise until tender—a duck two hours, a duckling one hour. Strain the stock to remove the vegetables, and return it to the duck. Prepare the turnips thus : Cut a pint of white turnips into shapes the size of a pig of an orange, throw them into boiling water for a minute, and on to a sieve to drain ; put into a saute pan a table-spoonful of white pounded sugar and let it become caramel, when add an ounce of butter, shake it about and add the turnips, turning and shaking them about until they become nicely browned all over. Pour a little of the stock from the duck into the pan to lick up all the caramel, and turn the contents into the stew-pan in which the duck is. Warm the whole and serve—if for a shooting lunch, take the duck out and flllet it and return to the stock. DUCK, DEVILLED. No. 182. Fillet a roast duck as in Receipt No. 162. Broil as in receipt for chicken, and serve with either Sauces No. 44, No. 45, or No. 46.POULTRY AND GAME. 125 DUCK, ROAST. No. 1S3. Truss, lard, and roast before a quick fire. A duck should have the gravy in it, that is, pink at the bone ; if dried up it is spoilt, GROUSE, ROAST. No. 184. Trim, truss, rub with butter or cover with slice of fat bacon, and roast before a clear fire for half an hour. Serve with good bread sauce made with cream (this is half the battle), and some fried bread-crumbs. GROUSE, EILLET OF. No. 185. Roast and fillet as in direction for Filleting (No. 162). GROUSE, DEVILLED. No. 186. Fillet as in receipt for Filleting (No. 162), cook and serve as in Receipt No. 173, and add what is left of the sauce the same way as in receipt quoted (No. 173). GROUSE, GRILLED. No. 187. Fillet in the same way as the foregoing receipt, put in a wire gridiron, rub with butter, dust with pepper and salt and grill over a clear fire. Grouse are such excellent birds that I think this the best way of cooking them for break- fast ; there is no sauce to destroy their flavour. GUINEA FOWL, ROAST. No. 188. The same as Chicken (No. 165). GUINEA FOWL, DEVILLED. No, 189. It can be filleted, and cooked in the same three ways as Chicken (No. 172, No. 173, No. 174).126 BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. HARE, CIVET OE. No. 190. Trim and cut a raw hare into fillets, cut half a pound of streaky bacon into squares double the size of dice, put the whole into a saute pan with two ounces of butter, and fry for ten minutes. Mix in two table-spoonfuls of flour and add a bottle of claret and a pint of Stock (No. 27). Let the whole boil for ten minutes, strain, wash the fillets in a tumbler of claret and put them in a clean stewpan, pass the stock again through a sieve, and add to it the fillet-garnish with five onions, with three cloves in one of them, a bouquet of parsley, thyme, four bay leaves, and six shalots. Let the whole stew until tender (about two hours), remove the garnish, add two dozen small mushrooms, and incorporate with the stock the blood of the hare, which must have been kept. The remains of a cooked hare can be done in the same way, only it must not stew so long. LARKS, CHAUFROIX OF. No. 191. Prepare and cook as in Quail (No. 208), only use a brown meat in the farci meat. LARKS IN ASPIC. No. 192. Prepare and cook as Quail (No. 209). PARTRIDGE, TO ROAST. No. 193. Clean, truss, rub with butter, or lard with fat bacon, and roast before a quick fire for twenty-five minutes. PARTRIDGE, BROILED. No. 194. The same as Grouse (No. 187). PARTRIDGE, DEVILLED. No. 195- The same as Grouse (No. 186).127 POULTRY AND GAME. PARTRIDGE, FILLET OF COLD. No. 196. Fillet as in directions for Filleting (No. 162); arrange neatly round a dish, and if for luncheons, simply in half. PHEASANT, ROAST. No. 197. The same as Chicken (No. 165). PHEASANT, BALLOTINES OF. No. 198. The same as Chicken (No. 178). PHEASANT, CHAU FRO IX OF. No. 199. The same as Chicken (No. 166). PHEASANT, CHAUFROIX IN ASPIC. No. 200. The same as Chicken (No. 167). PHEASANT, CHAUFROIX A LA PORTUGAISE. No. 201. The same as Chicken (No. 168). PHEASANT, DEVILLED IN THREE WAYS. No. 202. The same as Chicken (No. 172, No. 173, No. 174). PHEASANT, FILLET OF COLD. No. 203. The same as Chicken (No. 172, No. 173, No. 174). PHEASANT, GALANTINE OF. No. 204. The same as Chicken (No. 177). K128 BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. PHEASANT, MAYONNAISE OF. No. 205. The same as Chicken (No. 179). PHEASANT, SAUT^ OF. No. 206. The same as Chicken (No. 180). PIGEON, SPLIT AND BROILED. No. 207. Clean and truss as many young pigeons as are required, cut them straight in half, put them into a wire gridiron and broil over a clear fire. Rub with soft butter, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and serve with potato chips. QUAIL, CHAUFROIX OF. No. 208. Bone as many quail as are required, as in directions for boning, fill them with Farci Meat (No. 73) made of chicken, and add to it a few chopped truffles j roll each in buttered paper and bake for ten minutes. Glaze when cold, and mask with Chaufroix Sauce (No, 41). QUAIL IN ASPIC. No. 209. Prepare and cook in the same way as in No. 208, only instead of masking with Chaufroix Sauce, mask them with Aspic Jelly (No. 29), and serve with chopped aspic in centre. RABBIT, CURRY OF. No. 210. Soak in water, trim off skin, cut the legs from the body and in half, the back in three fillets straight through, and cook and serve as Curry of Chicken (No. 170).129 POULTRY AND GAME. RABBIT, CURRY OF, DRY. No. 211. Fillet as above, and cook and serve as in Receipt No. 171. RABBIT, SAUTi OF. No. 212. Fillet as in No. 162, and cook and serve in the same way as Saute of Chicken (No. 180). TURKEY, GALANTINE OF. No. 213. Prepare as in receipt for Galantines, but tie up in shape of bird as much as possible, and keep the lower part of the drumsticks and wing bones, and insert to resemble the bird as much as possible. For ball suppers mask with Chaufroix Sauce (No. 40, No. 41, and No. 42), and decorate with truffles, beetroot, tongue, cut into various shapes. If for race luncheons, mask with Aspic Jelly (No. 29), and serve with chopped aspic. TURKEY A L’AMBASSA TRICE. No. 214. Prepare as in receipt for Ballotines (No. 150); they can be served in various ways : masked with Chaufroix Sauce, White (No. 40), or a la Portugaise (No. 42), or in Aspic Jelly (No. 29). K 2CHAPTER XIX. SALADS AND VEGETABLES. ASPARAGUS POINTS. No. 215. Put as many asparagus, tied up in bundles of twenty each, as are required, into boiling water, allowing two ounces of salt for each gallon of water, and boil for twenty minutes. Drain and cut off the heads, mix with plain oiled butter, and they are fit for use. BEETROOT. No. 216. Wash, put into boiling water, and boil until tender ; time according to size, from one and a half to two hours. Let it get cold, take off the outside. If for beetroot salad, cut in slices the thickness of a penny; if for salad de legumes, cut with small round cutters into pieces half an inch thick. CARROTS. No. 217. Cut off the green tops and the bottoms, scrape and wash clean, and boil for an hour; young ones half an hour. Small carrots are the best, when they can be got, for salad de legumes, and cut in various shapes ; old ones in round pieces, as in Receipt (No. 216) for Beetroot. CUCUMBERS. No. 218. Peel and cut into various shapes, with salad de legumes.131 SALADS AND VEGETABLES. CUCUMBER, FILLETS OF. No. 219. Divide down the centre, cut out the soft parts and seeds, and into lengths of about an inch, trim all in an oval shape and to the same size, put them in a stew-pan with some butter, a little pepper, sugar, and salt, and then simmer until soft, shaking frequently. MUSHROOMS, BROILED. No. 220. Cut the stalks close to the heads of mushrooms well opened, take off the skin, put some small pieces of butter on each, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and arrange them in a baking tin, and cook in a Dutch oven before the fire; they should be cooked until soft, and put on buttered toast, and juice from them poured over them. MUSHROOMS AU GRATIN. No. 221. Prepare as above, only the mushrooms should not be quite opened. Chop fine three chives, a branch of parsley, and half a dozen button mushrooms, flavour with pepper and salt, and fill the cups of the mushrooms with the mixture and mask with bread-crumbs ; put them all in a well-buttered saute pan and let them stew in the oven until cooked (from ten to fifteen minutes); pass a sala- mander over them just before serving. MUSHROOMS, SAUTE OF. No. 222. Prepare some mushrooms as in Receipt No. 220, cut them into pieces from the stalk to the outer rim about an inch in width, put them into a saucepan with a little butter and chopped parsley, flavour with pepper and salt and fry them, shaking them about, until cooked ; they can be served on hot buttered toast, or put in an omelet.132 BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS PEAS, TO COOK FOR SALAD. No. 223. Shell, wash in cold water, and for every quart allow two ounces of butter, a bunch of mint, a sprinkling of sifted sugar, a tea-spoonful of salt; put the butter in a stewpan and let it become liquid, when put in the peas and flavouring and let them simmer (shaking frequently) for three- quarters of an hour. POTATO BALLS. No. 224. Prepare as Mashed Potatoes (No. 226), mix with them a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a tea-spoonful of chopped chives, and the yoke of an egg to each pound of potatoes; roll them into small balls about an inch in diameter and fry a nice light brown. POTATO CHIPS. No. 225. ' Cut an entire dishful of thin slices of raw potatoes, put them in cold water and dry them, put them in a frying basket and into boiling lard, and fry a nice light brown ; they can be sprinkled with chopped parsley and chives, called “ aux fines herbes ; ” but whether sprinkled with herbs or not they must be put on a sieve to dry before the fire. POTATOES, MASHED. No. 226. Rub through a wire sieve some boiled potatoes, and add to every pound of potatoes an ounce of butter, and salt to taste; put them in a saucepan, beat them well together with a fork over the fire, and serve very hot.133 SALADS AND VEGETABLES. POTATOES, FRIED. No. 227. Wash, peel, and cut some raw potatoes into various shapes, such as almonds, pigs of orange, or any other shape, throw them into water, and dry them in a cloth, put into a wire frying basket, and into boiling lard, and fry a nice light brown—the insides should be soft. They can be sprinkled with chopped parsley and chives if preferred. SALAD, BEETROOT. No. 228. Cut in slices the thickness of a penny, as directed in No. 216, and pour over them some Mayonnaise Sauce (No. 52). SALADE A LA ERANCAISE. No. 229. Wash and dry some nice white Cos lettuce. Put into a salad bowl a gill of Salad Dressing (No. 61), and let it marinade for half an hour as stated, when add the lettuce cut in lengths of about an inch; mix, turning over and over so as not to bruise the lettuce. A few slices of cucumber does not spoil this salad. SALADE DE Li.GUMES. No. 230. Mix an equal quantity of Peas (No. 223), Carrot (No. 217), Beetroot (No. 216), the latter filleted; mix well together without bruising, and sprinkle with best French vinegar, and let them stand for an hour or so, when add some best salad oil, and pepper and salt. This is used for garnished dishes. SALADE A LA MAYONNAISE. No. 231. Prepare the lettuce as in Receipt No. 229, and pour over it sufficient Mayonnaise Sauce (No. 52) to mask the leaves.134 BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. SALADE OF PEAS. No. 232. Prepare some peas as in Receipt No. 223 ; mix with them a gill of Salad Dressing a la Frangaise (No. 61), only instead of chopped chives, substitute seven or eight leaves of nice young mint. SALADE OF POTATOES. No. 233. Cut in slices some boiled cold potatoes, beetroot, and carrots; arrange them in circular rows on a soup plate, and mask with some thickish Mayonnaise Sauce (No. 52). TOMATOES, PUREE OF. No. 234. Cut as many tomatoes as are required in half, squeeze out the seed, and let them stew in butter and White Stock (No. 28) in equal proportions (about one ounce of butter and a gill of stock to six tomatoes); beat through a hair sieve, and if too thick, add a little cream; flavour with pepper and salt. TOMATOES, SAUTEES OF. No. 235. Peel and cut some tomatoes in slices about the thick- ness of a penny, quarter them, and take out the seeds and put them into a saucepan with a little butter, flavour with pepper and salt, shake them about and pour into an omelet. TRUFFLES FOR OMELETS AND EGGS. No. 236. Slice and simmer in a small wine-glassful of sherry for five minutes, take them out and chop them up, and let them simmer five minutes in a gill of Brown Sauce (No. 35); slightly reduced.I CHAPTER XX. CAKES, ICES, PUDDINGS, ETC. GALETTES DE PLOMB. No. 237. One pound of flour, three-quarters of a pound of butter, half a pint of cream, yolks of four eggs, two dessert-spoonfuls of sugar, one of salt; make into a paste, if too thick add a little water. In summer it should be rolled on an iced slab. Make into balls the size of an egg, flatten them slightly with the roller, and score all over the top and sides; egg and bake. This is a sort of short-bread, and very good. GINGERBREAD CAKES OR NUTS. No. 238. One and a half pounds of flour, half a pound of butter, one pound of treacle, half a pound of brown sugar, one ounce of ground ginger, three ounces of chopped citron, lemon or orange peel candied, one egg, one ounce of soda ; mix all the ingredients, and work them well together to a nice paste; put it, if for a cake, into a mould, and allow it to rise for an hour, when bake in a moderate oven ; if for nuts or small cakes, roll it on a paste-board to the re- quired thickness, and cut with cutter into the shapes re- quired, brush over with egg, put them by the side of the fire to rise for half an hour, and bake in a moderate oven.136 BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. LUNCH CAKE. No. 239. One and a half pounds of flour, three-quarters of a pound of butter; rub well together, and mix in half a poundof stoned raisins,three ouncesof lemon peel shredded, half a pound of sugar, two table-spoonfuls of Borwick’s baking powder, mixed with two eggs beaten, and a little milk. Work these ingredients well together, put the paste into a baking-tin, and bake in a moderately hot oven. A glass of old Madeira taken afterwards, wheyi yoii can get it, is not to be refused. POUND 'cake. No. 240. One pound of flour, one pound of pounded loaf sugar, one pound of butter, eight eggs, a pinch of salt. Work the butter with a wooden spoon in a basin until it becomes the substance of thick cream, when dredge in the flour, and mix in gradually the sugar, the salt, and the eggs (which should have been well beaten, the white and yolks separately) ; when thoroughly mixed put in a baking-tin, which should be lined with buttered paper; two or three ounces of dried cherries, or sliced citron, can be mixed in if preferred ; or a wine-glassful of sherry or brandy can be added. Bake from about one and a half to two hours. QUEENS CAKES. No. 241. One pound of flour, three-quarters of a pound of butter, three-quarters of a pound of pounded sugar, the rind of two lemons grated, and six eggs. Work the butter to a cream, as in No. 240, and then incorporate sugar and flour; having whisked the eggs, mix them into the paste, and work the whole well together, and fill any small moulds, which should have been buttered, with the paste, dredge with sugar, and bake. Sliced citron, or dried cherries, can be put in, and, if so, should be the last ingredients added.CAKES, ICES, PUDDINGS, ETC. 137 SPONGE CAKES. No. 242. Eight eggs, half a pound of pounded sugar, half a pound of flour, the rind of one and a half lemons grated, a glass of sherry; beat the whites of the eggs to a firm cream ; mix the yolks, sugar, rind of the lemons, and sherry, into a smooth batter, and work it together for twenty minutes; incorporate lightly with this the beaten whites, and gradually mix in the flour. The mould must have been well dressed with butter and with sifted sugar, when fill it if for a cake, or, if for sponge fingers, butter and sugar the small moulds, and bake in a moderate oven, for fingers from fifteen to twenty minutes, cakes about an hour. Note.—No specific time is given as to the baking of cakes, ovens and the heat thereof differing so much ; if there should be any doubt as to the cake being sufficiently baked, let the cook run a small wooden skewer through the cake ; if any dough or paste adhere to it, the cake is not sufficiently baked. ICE.S, CREAM. APRICOT CREAM ICE. No. 243. Peel, split, extract the stones from twelve apricots ; put them in a stewpan, with six ounces of pounded sugar and half a pint of water ; stir over the fire until entirely dissolved, and pass through a white hair sieve; incorporate with this mixture a pint of thick cream, and freeze. BROWN BREAD ICE. No. 244. Mix eight ounces of stale brown bread-crumbs with a pint of whipped cream ; add six ounces of pounded white sugar, four drops of essence of vanilla, and freeze.138 breakfasts, luncheons, and ball suppers. 2?ASPBEJ?/iV CREAM ICE. No. 245. Beat one pound of fresh raspberries through a hair sieve, rnix the pulp with twelve ounces of pounded sugar and a pint of thick cream, and freeze. STRAWBERRY CREAM ICE. No. 246. The same process as in Raspberry Cream Ice, sub- stituting fresh picked strawberries for raspberries. VANILLA CREAM ICE. No. 247. Boil three ounces of pounded sugar in half a pint of new milk, put it on the side of the fire, and add the yolks of six eggs ; stir over the fire until the custard thickens, flavour with five or six drops of vanilla essence, and mix in a pint of thick cream, and freeze. WATER ICES. CURRANT AND RASPBERRY. No. 24S. Simmer for a few minutes in a preserving pan three pounds of stripped red currants and one pound of rasp- berries in a gill of water, and either beat them through a hair sieve or put them through one of Adams’ Fruit Pressers. Add to the juice one pint of syrup, made thus : “Put four pounds of lump sugar in a sugar boiler, and add to it one quart of water, whisked up with half the white of an egg ; allow the sugar to dissolve, stirring it up, put it on the fire and stir it with a sugar spoon until it boils, put it on the side of the fire, and by degrees, as it boils, keep adding another pint of water—this process makes the egg come to the top, and after boiling a minute or two the syrup will become quite clear and bright ”—and freeze.139 CAKES, ICES, PUDDINGS, ETC. ORANGE WATER ICE. No. 249. Press twelve ripe oranges through a lemon squeezer, and extract all the juice ; soak the rind of three of them in a pint of warm syrup, made as in No. 248, for an hour. Mix well and freeze. PEACH WATER ICE. No. 250. Stew until soft one dozen peaches divided in half, and beat through a hair sieve, or put through one of Adams’ Fruit Pressers. Mix with one pint of syrup, as in No. 248, and freeze. Cherry, barberry, melon, and any fresh fruit, can be made into water ice by the same process. PUDDINGS. BABA PUDDINGS. No. 251. Sift into a basin four ounces of flour, form a hollow space in the centre, and add an ounce of German yeast; dilute with warm milk, make a light dough, knead it well, and let it rise by the side of the fire. Prepare in a larger basin twelve ounces of flour, with a hole in the centre also, add a pinch of salt, four ounces of sugar, a little milk, six ounces of butter, and eight eggs ; knead with the hands for ten minutes, lifting the mixture with every movement, add the dough, work five minutes longer, and finish with half a pint of cream, a pound of dried cherries, and four wine- glassfuls of rum or brandy ; cover the basin with a warm cloth, and let it rise by the side of the fire for three hours ; butter the moulds of whatever size are to be used, dropping a few dried cherries into each, and fill them three parts full only, and when it rises to the top of the mould bake quickly, and turn out—mark, if to be used hot, with a pint140 BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. of rum or brandy syrup. If to be taken cold for race luncheons they can be taken dry, but if some rum or brandy syrup is thrown over them it greatly improves them, although it makes the carriage more difficult. BAVAROIS OF RICE. No. 252. Stew two ounces of rice in a pint and a half of new milk and four ounces of sugar for half an hour, for half of which time put in it a stick of vanilla ; make some custard with three eggs and half a pint of new milk, stirring it over the fire until it thickens, dissolve five or six sheets of French gelatine, and add with custard to the rice. Let it get cold, but not set, when mix in half the bulk of whipped cream, and fill several small moulds; embed them in ice, and when cold cut out the centre with a cutter, and fill with either apricot, peach, or apple pulp. Warm up the rice which was cut from the centre, and with this cover over the fruit in the moulds, and when set turn out for use. D’ARTOIS. No. 253. Make some pastry as for tarts, and roll it rather thin, cover with apricot or greengage or raspberry jarn, cover with the same pastry. Mark it out in shapes in which it is to be served. Egg over and sift with very finely-powdered sugar, and bake ; when cold cut into the required shapes. JELLIES. No. 254. To a quart of syrup, as in No. 248, add an ounce and a half of French gelatine, and a tumbler of sherry if for Madeira jelly, and simmer the whole together until well mixed, when fill the mould, which must have been wetted with cold water and put in ice. Orange Jelly can be made by substituting the juice of eight oranges and two lemons for the sherry.141 CAKES, ICES, PUDDINGS, ETC. MACEDOINE OF FRUITS. No. 255. The same as No. 254, only throw in before putting in the ice any fruit in seasoh, such as grapes, strawberries, or currants, which must have been soaked in brandy. PLUM PUQDING. No. 256. Mix together the following ingredients : four ounces of flour, four ounces of bread-crumbs, eight ounces of finely- chopped suet, eight ounces of stoned raisins, four ounces of currants, four ounces of apple minced, the peel of a candied orange and lemon shredded, four eggs, five ounces of sugar, a wine-glassful of brandy, and a pinch of salt. Mix well together, tie in a cloth, which has been put in warm water and well buttered, and boil for six and a half hours. TARTLETS. No. 257. Make as many tartlet cases of pastry for fruit tarts as are required, bake, and let them get cold, when fill with either apricots, apples, cherries, or any other fruit, pre- pared as in compotes, and serve either plain or covered with a whip of cream neatly placed on each. IfINDEX. Allemande Sauce PAGE 80 Apricot Cream Ice ••• 137 Asparagus Points ... 130 Aspic Jelly ... 78 Baba Puddings ... 139 Ballotines ... II2 Ball Suppers ...56-63 Bavarois of Rice ... 140 Bdchamel Cream ... 80 Beef, Brisket of, Boiled ... 105 „ „ Stewed ... 105 „ Round of, Where to obtain 2 „ Tongue ... 106 Beefsteak ... 104 „ Braised ... 105 Beetroot ... 130 Black Puddings ... no Bone, To ... I18 Bread, Brown ... 64 „ Fancy ... 65 „ White ... 65 Breakfasts for Ladies ... ...16-21 „ „ Large Parties ... I-15 „ „ Robust Constitu- tions ... ...22-25 Brown Bread Ice — 137 „ Sauce, Clear ... ... 80 „ Stock ... 77 „ Thickening ... 79 Buns, Plain ... 67 „ Plum ... 67 Butter, Fine Herbs 80 PACK Buttei , Lobster 81 Maitre d’Hotel 81 Cakes Galettes de Plomb 135 )) Gingerbread 13s Lunch ... 136 )) Pound 136 Queen’s 136 Sponge 137 Calf’s Liver and Bacon III Carrots 130 Celery Sauce ... 8i Chateaubriand Sauce 82 Chaufroix Sauce, Brown 82 „ h la Portugaise 82 5> „ White 81 Chicken, Ballotines of. 123 SJ to Braise ... 119 5J to Broil 120 ?> Chaufroix of... 120 )> „ in Aspic 120 J) „ h la Por- tugaise 120 Croquettes of I2I 99 Curry of I2I )) „ Dry I2I JJ Devil of 122 ?) Fillet of 122 » Fricassee of 123 JJ Galantine of 123 Mayonnaise of 123 )) Pie II2 Saute of 123143 INDEX. Cocoa PAGE 71 Coffee • •• 69 Consommd « • > 87 „ Fausse Tortue • • • 88 „ k la Royal... ... 87 „ Tortue ... 87 „ a rindienne ... 88 Crumpets 66 Cucumber ... 130 „ Fillets of ... , 131 Currant Ice ... 138 Curry Pies ... 115 w Dry ... 121 D’Artois 140 Devil Sauce ...8 2,83 „ j, k la Perry • • • 83 Downton Sauce ... 83 Duck, Braised aux Navets ... 124 „ Devilled ... 124 „ Roast ... 125 Eggs, to Boil 72 „ au Jus ... 72 „ aux Fines Herbes ... 74 » Buttered, etc. ... ... 73 „ Bouchees of ... 73 „ Fried • • • 74 ,, Poached 73 Espagnole Sauce ... 83 JFarce Stuffing ... 91 jj .. for Raised Pies 91 Fine Herbs Sauce Fish- ... 84 „ Au Gratin ... 94 „ Bloaters ... ... 95 „ Cod, Broiled 94 „ Grayling ... 94 Fish (continued')— PAGE 5) Haddock, Broiled 95 „ Kippered ... 95 5> Herring, Broiled... • •• 95 }> Kedgeree ... 95 3? Lobster au Gratin • •• 96 33 „ Chaufroix of 96 33 „ in Aspic... 96 53 „ Mayonnaise of... 96 33 Mackerel, Broiled • •• 97 33 Omelets ... 75 33 Oysters, to Open and Serve 97 33 „ k la Tartar 98 33 „ in Aspic... 98 33 „ Kabobs ... 98 1 » Perch, Broiled ... 99 3» Plaice, Fillet of ... • •• 99 33 Salmon, to Fillet • • • 99 33 „ Broiled ... • •• 99 33 „ Chaufroix of 100 33 „ Coquilles of 100 33 „ Cutlets of • • • TOO 33 „ Kedgeree of 100 33 „ Kippered lOI 35 „ Mayonnaise of... loi 33 Smelt, Fried lOI 33 Sole, Broiled lOI 33 „ k la Colbert lOI 33 „ to Fillet • • • 102 33 „ Chaufroix of 102 33 „ Fried • • • 102 33 „ Mayonnaise of 102 33 Trout, Broiled ... 103 3> Fried 102 33 Rolls 103 33 Twice Laid 94 33 Whiting, Broiled • • • 103 33 „ Fried ... 103 French Rolls, etc. 65 L144 INDEX. PAGE PAGE Galantines • • * 113 Lamb Cutlets, Broiled ... 106 Galettes de Plomb • •• • • • 135 „ „ Fried ... ... 107 Game Pie • •• • • • 113 ,j „ in Aspic ... 107 Gingerbread, etc. ... ... 135 Larks, in Aspic ... 126 Glaze • •• 79 „ Chaufroix of ... 126 Grouse, Devilled • •• ... 125 Lobster in Aspic ... 96 „ Fillet of • •• • . • 125 „ au Gratin ... 96 „ Grilled.,. ... • • • 125 „ Chaufroix of... ... 96 „ Pie ... ... 114 Luncheons, House ...26-38 „ Roast ... • • ■ • •• 125 „ Hunting ... -39-41 Guinea FoavI, Devilled • •• 125 „ Race ...42-49 „ „ Roast • ■ * • • • 125 „ Rolls ... 65 „ Shooting ... ...52-54. Haddock, Broiled • •• • •• 95 „ Travelling ...50,51 „ Kippered • . • ... 95 „ Cake ... 136- Ham, to Broil ... • • • • . • 106 „ to Cook ... . • » ... 106 Macddoine of Fruits ... ... 141 „ Omelet ... • • • • • • 75 Mackerel, Broiled ... 97 Hare, Civet of ... • •• • •• 126 Mad^re Sauce ... 84 Herring, Broiled • •• 95 Mayonnaise Sauce ... 84 Hunting Pies ... • • • • •• 114 „ „ for Chau- froix ... 85 Ice, Apricot Cream • •• • •• 137 „ „ Green ... 85 j, Brown Bread ... • •• 137 „ ,, Red ... 85 „ Currant and Raspberry „ of Chicken ... 125 (Water) ... • •• • •• 138 Mint Jelly ... 86- „ Orange (Water) ... • •• 139 „ Sauce ... 85 „ Peach (Water) 139 Muffins ... 66 „ Raspberry... • •• ... 138 Mulligatawny Soup ... 89 „ Strawberry • . • 138 Mushroom Sauce ... 86 „ Vanilla • • • 138 „ „ for Chaufroix Sb' Indian Sauce ... • • • • « • 84 Mushrooms, Broiled ... ... 131 „ au Gratin... ... 131 Jellies • •• 140 „ Saute of ... ... 131 Mutton Broth ... 90 Kedgeree • •• • •• 95 „ Chops ... 107 „ of Salmon • •• • •• 100 „ Cutlets, Broiled ... 107 Kidney Omelet • • • • •• 75 Fried ,, ± 1 ... 107 Kippered Salmon . - • lOI „ Haricot of ... 108INDEX. 145 PAGE PAGE Mutton, Hashed 108 Pheasant, Devilled in Three „ Kidneys, Broiled 109 Ways 127 „ „ and Bacon... 109 „ Fillet of 127 „ ,, Devilled ... 109 „ Galantine of 127 „ „ Saute of ... 109 „ Mayonnaise of 128 „ „ Stewed 109 „ Roast 127 „ Potato Pie 108 „ Saut6 of 128 Pickle for Curing Hams, etc. ... 91 Norvegienne Sauce 86 Pies, Beefsteak... III „ Chicken 112 Omelet, to Fry 74 „ Curry 115 „ aux Tomates 76 „ Fish 115 „ ,, Champignons ... 76 „ Game 113 „ Fine Herbs 76 „ Grouse 114 „ Fish 75 „ Hunting 114 „ Ham 75 „ Partridge 116 „ Kidney 75 „ Pigeon 116 Orange Water Ice 139 Pigeon, Split and Broiled 128 Oysters, to Open 97 Plaice, Fillet of 99 „ in Aspic 98 Pot-pourri 116 „ h la Tartar 98 Potato Balls 132 „ Kabobs 98 „ Chips ... 132 Potatoes, Fried... 133 Partridge, Broiled 126 „ Mashed 132 „ Devilled 126 Pound Cake 136 „ Fillet of 127 Preparation for Filling Cases 116 » Pie 116 Puddings, Baba 139 „ Rcast 126 „ Plum 141 Pastry for Meat Pies 92 „ Pate Chaud 93 Quail, Chaufroix of ... 128 „ Pudding 93 „ in Aspic 128 „ Puff 92 Queen’s Cakes 136 Peas 132 Perch, Broiled 99 Rabbit, Curry of 128 Pheasant, Ballotines of 127 » j. Dry 129 „ Chaufroix of 127 „ Saut6 of 129 ,, „ in Aspic 127 Race Luncheons 42-49 ), „ cl la Por- Raspberry Cream Ice 138 tugaise 127 Rolls, Luncheon 65146 INDEX, PAGE PAGE Salad, Beetroot 133 Sauce, Salad Dressing, French 86 35 ^ la Frangaise ... 133 „ White 86 35 de Legumes 133 Sausages aux Truffes, etc. 110 3) la Mayonnaise 133 „ an Oxford Receipt... no 3) of Peas 134 Scones ... 67 }) Potato 134 Shooting Luncheons ... ...5: 54 Sauce, Brown Thickening, or Soups, h la Royal 87 Roux... 79 ,, Consomme 87 33 White Thickening 79 „ „ Tortue 87 9f Allemande 80 „ „ Fausse Tortue 88 99 Bdchamel 80 „ „ k I’Indienne 88 33 Brown Clear 80 ,, Mulligatawny 89 33 Butter, Fine Herbs ... 80 „ Mutton Broth 90 13 „ Lobster 81 ,, Pur6e of Chicken, 33 „ Maitre d’Hotel 81 Pheasant, etc. 89 Celery ... 81 „ Purde d’Huitres 89 JJ Chateaubriand 82 Strawberry Cream Ice 138 9* Chaufroix, White 81 Suppers, Ball S5“63 33 „ Brown 82 Sweetbread Cutlets III 33 „ a la Portugaise 82 Devil 82, 83 Tartlets ... 141 3> „ a la Perry 83 Tea, to Make ... 68 Downton 83 Thickening, Brown 79 33 Espagnole 83 „ White 79 Fine Herbs 84 Tomatoes, Purde of 134 Indian \ 84 „ Sauteesof... 134 Madere ...' 84 Travelling Luncheons S°j 5^ Mayonnaise 84 Truffles for Omelets and Eggs 134 „ Dressing... 85 Turkey, Galantine of 129 „ Green 85 „ k I’Ambassatrice 129 „ Red 85 Mint 85 Veal Cutlets III Jelly 86 86 Mushroom 86 White Sauce „ for Chaufroix 86 „ Stock 78 3' Norvegienne 86 „ Thickening 79 CHAUtES DICKENS AND EVANS, CRYSTAL VALASE I'RHSS.I BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. Possessing all the properties of the Finest Arrowroot, BROWN & POBSON’S CORN FLOUR Is a World-Wide Necessary FOR THE NURSERY, THE SICK-ROOM, AND THE FAMILY TABLE. NOTE.—Purchasers of Corn Flour should insist on being supplied with BROWN & POLSON’S. It is distinguished for uniformly superior quality. .#-pyocter ® @ Company,^ DIRECT IMPORTERS OP ■lllbiapore • SbielDs. punjaub Sbielbs. IRajpootana © Sworbs. IRepaulese Sworbs. 3Labore © 2)aoGCTS. pesbawar Dacgers. ‘Patiawar • /Paces. ’Pattawar ® Hres. (Baffety. 428, ©xfoi-b St., nenp^Fcijnv&.titrcet. MBREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. MUSGRAVE’S Patent Ventilating Slow Combustion Stoves Qold Medal, Health Ezhihition, London 188 FRiZE mz:dai.s. Antwerp, 1885 ; London, 1884; Amste dam, 1883: Melbourne, 1880: Sydnei 1879 ; Paris, 1878 ; Brussels, 1876 ; Pari. 1867 ; London, 1862. MUSGRAVE’S NEW PATENT ‘ULSTER' STOVES Are Superior to Any ever made. Priced Catalogues of the above, an. ialso of MUSlzKAVE’S PATEN', STABLE FITTINGS and MUS u ^ GRAVE'S SANITARY COW Eli. - n -^ TINGS, post free from MUS^VE & CO. (Lim.), 97, NEW BOND ST., LONDON, W. 240, Rue de Rivoli, Paris; & Ann Street Iron Works, Belfast.3 BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS, BARTON & CO., Wine Merchants & Shippers, Chief Offices : 59, ST. JAMES’ STREET, LONDON, S.W., ' Where all Correspondence should be addressed. City Offices and Cellars : 17, GRACECHURCH STREET, E.C., AND ST. MILDRED’S COURT, POULTRY, E.C. Vintage 1878 and 1880. Champagne. 70/- 72/- 74/- 78/- 84/- 96/- 100/- According to date of landing, quantity, and degree of excellence. Also a large Slock ^1874 choice branded Champagnes, frosn 100/- to 180/- per doz. Claret. 1 Light Dinner. 18/- to 30/- Higher Class—First, Second, & Third Growths. 1878 1876 1879 1877 1872 1872 1875 36/- 42/- 48/- 54/- 60/- 66/- 72/- Also a large Stock of Latour, Leoville, Barton, and Lajite, 1864, 1871, 1875. Sherry. Pale, Pale Dry, Superior Pale. Gold, Brown, Amber. Manzanillas, Mon- tillas. Vino de Pastos, Amontillados. Old in Bottle of all the choicest varieties. 21/- to 42/- 24/- to 54/- 32/- to 72/-. 84/- to 140/- According to age andj character. Port. Light or full-bodied. Choice, Dry, Rich, & excellent flavour, from the wood and old in bottle. Fine Natural. VINTAGES. 1820, 1834, 1840, 1847, 1851, 1853, 20/- to 36/- 40/- to 60/- 48/- to 72/- 1854, 1863, 1870, Chablis, Sauterne, Madeira, Hoek, Moselle, Marsala, Burgundy, Brandy, Whisky, and Liqueurs, CUSTOMERS VISITING LONDON FOR SHORT PERIODS CAN HAVE THEIR CELLARS STOCKED ON SALE OR RETURN. Decanted bottles of Claret, &c., for tasting, sent on receipt of telegram or letter. BARTON & CO.’S HOUSE HAS BEEN ESTABLISHED OVER 100 YEARS. M 7.4 breakfasts, luncheons, and ball suppers. Established 1798. farrow & JACKSON By Appointment to H.M, ThejQueen and H.E.H. The Prince of Wales. WICKER BURGUNDY BASKETS. Also made with Wheels and with handle on top. Decanter and Bottle Baskets, Wine-Coolers, Funnels, Cork-Drawing Machines, & Decantingi; Appliances of all kinds. REG"'CELLULAR BINS With separate Rest for each bottle with and without doors. Also the; NEW “EXHIBIT” BINS, With necks of bottles outwards. SODA WATER RACKS,,. CASK-STANDS, &c. Illustrated Catalogues post free. 8, HAYMARKET, S.W., & 16, GREAT TOWER ST., E.C.. BROWN AND GREEN’S KITCHENERS.. Gold and Silver Medals for Smoke- consuming Grates & Kitcheners. With Oven and Side Boiler, With Two Ovens and Boiler. Prices and Illust7-ations on application. These KITCHENERS roast in front,, and are unequalled for economy and. convenience. The Patent Self-Acting Dampers- SAVE COAL and Ventilate the Kitchener. BROWN AND GREEN’S PORTABLE GEM STOYES Burn a surprisingly small quantity of fuel. They are recommended for small families, and as an auxiliary for larger establishments. Highly approved. Bake well. Require no setting. Cure smoky chimneys. Gold Medal at the Healtheries, 1884. BROWN AND GREEN, Limited, 69 & 71, Finsbury Pavement, E.C.BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. 5 BARTO VALLE & Co., Wine, Spirit, and Liqueur Merchants, 21, S-W. SPECIALITIES. FINE OIE FOR SAEADS. White Wine Vinegars, Plain and Flavoured. CHUTNEES, OLIVES, PICKLES, HAMS, TONGUES, ®ovgona Jlmhobtcs, filktei in ^rine S: ®il. SEVILLE ORANGE MARMALADE. ADAMS & SON, MA«UFACTURING AND FORNISHING IRONMONGERS, Electro-Platers and Cutlers, By Appointment to Her Majesty the Queen and H.R.H. the Prince of Wales, av, S.'W. I BEST HOUSE IN THE TRADE FOR KITCHEN REQUISITES, MOULDS, and all the latest PARISIAN NOVELTIES and SPECIALITIES FOR THE CUISINE, Special attention being given to this Department. DEPOT FOR CAPTAIN WARREN’S PATENT COOKING POTS. lO PER CENT. DISCOUNT ALLOWED FOR CASH. Illustrated. Catalogue forwarded on application. ■ BV, S.W.6 BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. BELLAMY BROS., POULTERERS AND GAME-DEALERS, 118, JERMYN STREET, ST. JAMES’S. THE LARGEST STOCK IN LONDON. PRICES ON APPLICATION. Country Orders Promptly Executed. TELEPHONE No. 3735. & Co., FISHMONGERS, OYSTER AND ICE MERCHANTS, 99, JERMYN STREET, ST. JAMES’S, LONDON. BEST CTij^VSS OTTIi'ir. BILL OF FARE ON APPLICATION. COUNTRY ORDERS PUNCTUALLY ATTENDED TO. TELEPHONE No. 3735.7 BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS, CHOCOLAT-MENIER IF O I?. Breakfast Luncheon AND Supper. AWARDED 32 PRIZE MEDALS. Annual Consumption exceeds 26,000,000 lbs. SOLD RETAIL EVERYWHERE8 BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS The Meat is really roasted in fresh air as before a coal fire, and the flavour preserved better than by any other method. SILVER MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION. 1884. SUGG’S NEW PATENT . CHARING GROSS” GAS KITCHENER. Roasts, Boils, Fries, Grills, and Bakes Pastry and Bread. May be seen in action and tested every day at our Show Kooms, 1 & 2, GRAND HOTEL BUILDINGS, CHARING CROSS. WILLIAM SUGG & Co., LIMITED. Specially notice that all these Hig^h-Class Kitcheners are provided with governors which prevent the gas from being wasted, and ensure the perfection of cookery. They cannot be hired from the Gas Companies.i BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. PARISIENNE” ROASTER. Roasts Jo/fits and Poultry to perfection. CLOSED. OPEN (showing Joint rotating' 00 ^ 00 m V m 00 0 CD P p i-i r m 1-3 i'K P ca , P •o ® oa ?o “ ■ m ct- _ cf o m tr- <1 ® ® ® ^ r i- o m M. s, ^ EO p r! QQ ^ <J »-• ^ ^ £J ^ CD ^ 2 P (Kl &® a P-- 3. g, . , I '^D'M hi t3 » b ® ~ p. e ® ^ » o § ^ ?r 2 Et -Mr ■J 1 JtfV’ in/ormaHon cUaimd, at our Show Room, buildings, charing cross. WILLIAM SUGG & CO., THim-smElo BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. EMILE BEGUINOT, MANUFACTURER OF PHESERYED PROVISIONS, GAME PATES, PATES DE GIBIER, soups IN GLASS BOTTLES. Awarded Silver Medal, Cookery Exhibition, for Purity and Excellence. RAISED GAME PIES. INVALIDS’ SPECIALITIES: Beef Tea, Chicken Broth, Turtle Jelly. E. BEGUINOT’S CEI.EBB.ATEIB ENTB±E SAUCES, Espagnole, Tomato, and Italian, From Is. per Bottle upwards. ALL THE ABOVE ARTICLES CAN BE OBTAINED FROM ALL FIRST CLASS ITALIAN WAREHOUSEMEN. N.B.-Upwards of 12 years Chef de Cuisine to Earl Granville. 2, ST. JAMES’ STREET, S.W., 8 RUE DE MOSCOU, PARIS, ’ AND 401J, WANDSWORTH ROAD, LONDON, S.W.S'SgJl .. p O u p u © cs Ph JpS“ Q.fS » ft. BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. n \<^ <2 ■ pa 03 ® fi o| Occ •—I q3 o o ' S o p^^aQ o o 5 .ii ^ mH I . DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S LU z >- G O •s S ai re jq go g '^.So *3*© rv O «o d J ^ *S •« «»H ^ © 9 P CM " ^ 5 S ° £?° of-g •d ® ^ ° § S i? ci .2 s cT^2 -tJ -a .2 o S is^.^ p'raps ■2 * S..S 3 S-S^ ? ‘C -*® XJ ' i.. ■C2?g S mtw£ d g o d o - ) ^ *c i ©22 IS'Sis >1-5.2 o g s =° m cQ e s*_ ^ gia l£S(§ ^',{3 6 r, 2 ® ^ © M d ^ w >■§ 5 fl o ‘5 -^ § •^ © 5 CO ® » d » O ^ rti n AT ffi a M oj CO 53 il Ss.£5s ° '-rf-S P<d=S3K) S oj O pq .2® Eh 9 >pW • P So rto .o pg pH H p jQjq d ■ s p '3 ■a ;< > a r^ M a ^'5 -EH Opg- ■" Mf* Pt>-lPEH g-o-g aj “[> a O^’K S5m ^0-<i Mre d CCCL^ ® C 2 , . ^ M 2 . Q MH d ^ CO O ^ •'-J Q) - — © M ^ ^ w sp .K a m '-'CO W2? ->* CO >-1^ 2^0 l>H'a mPh Oq Oo ai • O 1-3 hq D3 03 to nn (D 7 J3 I rf, ><^ _ gp o r OaQJ^-d iPlg^S k°&i| I “a “a HP a^g ^O GO ^ o Eh d ^OQ O bSs|» Og -Hi . PhS fcH > 'SJ 53 «5-: g5 5S ^Eh‘ R a3 .82 ® H Ajt <1 a-jH gfci- 3Eh j B-Sg 5sW oj^Ph c3 P <ri .2 COW ^'£r QP^ a«° ■<P« iZB §■-« S ••H S wp^ P c8 d p r ^ o a fS-e X .d © T & as +p ^ -5 t- a s © ^ S.^ ? ! q* ^ 4 f3 CO O • >.3 d* 9 ® ' O 2 -P 13 ■d ^ © d d ® ,tf 3 g5 R p K°. 9 g.i-3' © j e d © © 04 O ^ © bo-d dEH d td © O O 03 J F fe 3 a 'T P.O ' O V M to 53 M *d j3 OQ d > © © 5 2.2 U CO u o 'd.d © > 2^ Pg S3i Ai 3-i.! ■2.5SS.g.S'?W§23|: fe’d d “"i 3*'~*a ^ 2^"^ ® S'd? ^ •Or-H 5-d^ ©•d.2»2 d d o ''dV4D3 'H^© «^L.O {y;>a p^ Si?il35tc|2^g; ? 0^ S g“^. °pPZ =3 §3 I |.2^-|g|0 2g1gi 'gai'?SS.|0|g|'sF| ■Mi.d-Mpdce *t?:9^© ^ o d ^ s ^rv3 ^ o M ^ -5 - '^p- -§ 3 d d © d tcj , O © M d Q'^ -d 3 ! ■s^Q 2 a §,: S-+.0 g ^o ; -°p2£"’ M a •s cr ^3.-2|;§^o.|=^§ © d3orqco;dW^^5^' p.2.ag).i3g:.2go2.2a I STia': -.agSP aS H,S3'S g 033= . 03_ ,-J3“gag I-3 > M)5C2-“ to 0 . O © CO d ® -2 ' S b C* ® M ^ n’’d a § •§ fl ^ a e 2 S « 3 ela © rM ^ d © g -a ffl s t>-..S « a g 3 8 03^0^ g , •“ : s d 3 Si?" 3 oi 3S F Qr •»“> m *H H a p4 d © e u, © ^ M - •e § .. S F X ‘ .©M©0-*fO,USS, j-a^aSa-gg^ .8 a-9 5 0X1 ^d ®A'3 .- 5 5 3 525^1115^1 M © ;12 BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. third edition. THE PYTCHLEY BOOK OF REFINED COOKERY and bills of fare. By Major L***** Large crown 8vo. 8s. The author has done his work in the proper way. He begins on the right principle by giving a gross of bills of fare. They supply an aim, and his introductions and general rules are Witten with an energy which can hardly fail to inspire the indispensable enthusiasm. • • • ^ great merit of Major L*****'s recipes is, that Among the five hundred and D //gives, a very large proportion are really possible lor small households.”— Pall Mall Gazette. . , author has arranged his volume with evident care, and a number of vtenus suitable for each month of the year are given in French and English. They are distinguished by variety and economy, and are manilestly the compilation of one who knows well how to appreciate a good dinner well served. . . . The volume cannot fail to prove of service to all who care to live well, and at the same time to study reasonable economy.”—Society. " This is a volume which will be found particularly useful during the approaching hunting season, and to those who are in the habit of giving hunt breakfasts or similar parties it will be invaluable. The author deals w'ith the subject of cookery in a lucid and exhaustive manner, a special feature in the publication being a collection of ‘bills of fare,’ which comprises twelve for each month of the year. ‘ Wines and their service’ are also dealt with.”—Sports7>tan. “ ‘ I^he Pytchley Book of Refined Cookery and Bills of Fare,’by Major L***** is evidently the production of a man who has studied the gastronomic art with great interest. The book opens with a number of vienns in French and in English, twelve for each month, and then goes on to give, shortly and clearly, the recipes for cooking the dishes which have been set out; and it leaves nothing to Ire desired. It is handsomely got up, and beyond doubt will have a considerable popularity.”—Scotsman. " Contains a large number of excellent me7ius and a good deal of valuable advice.”— Athenceum. We consider this a most excellent book for the Pytchley or any other country. There are twelve Bills of Fare in English and French for each month, made out with the strictest economy consistent with refined cookery, and between five and six hundred receipts, that any cook, old or young, might unravel—even a victim to School Board overcramming! The chapter devoted to wines, and how to bring them up to table, applies equally to the cheaper as well as more costly vintages.”—Naval a7td Alilitary Gazette. SEVENTH THOUSAND. HOW TO COOK FISH. A Series of Lessons in Cookery, from the Official Handbook to the National Training School for Cookery, South Kensington, Compiled by “ R. O. C.” Crown 8vo, sewed, 3d. SICK-ROOM COOKERY. From the Official Handbook to the National School for Cookery, South Kensington. Compiled by “ R. O. C.” Crown 8vo, sewed, 6d. FIFTH THOUSAND. THE ROYAL CONFECTIONER: English and Foreign. A Practical Treatise. By C. E. Francatelli. With numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 5s. THE KINGSWOOD COOKERY BOOK. By H. F. Wicken. Crown 8vo, 2s. London: CHAPMAN AND HALL, Limited.BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. 13 London : CHAPMAN AND HALL, Limited. CHARLES DICKENS’S WORKS. THE ILLUSTRATED LIBRARY EDITION. IVii/i all the Original Illustraiions, in 30 vols. demy 8w, ;,^I5 ; separate volumes, 10s. each. “THE CHARLES Complete, with Life hy John Forster. PICKWICK PAPERS. MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT. ^s. DOMBEY AND SON. 4J. NICHOLAS NICKLEBY. DAVID COPPERFIELD. 4^. BLEAK HOUSE. 4^. LITTLE DORRIT. 45. OUR MUTUAL FRIEND. 4^- BARNABY RUDGE. 3^. 6tt. OLD CURIOSITY SHOP. 3^- A CHILD'S HISTORY OF ENGLAND. 3i. 6<t. EDWIN DROOD and OTHER STORIES. 3s. 6d. DICKENS EDITION.” 23 vols, crown Svo, £4. 35., 7vith Illustrations. CHRISTMAS STORIES, from Household Words. 2S. 6d. A TALE OF TWO CITIES. 3^- SKETCHES by “Boz.” 31. 6d. CHRISTMAS BOOKS. 3s. 6d. AMERICAN NOTES AND REPRINTED PIECES. 3s- 6d. OLIVER TWIST. 3^. 6d. UNCOMMERCIAL TRAVELLER. 3i. GRE.A.T EXPECTATIONS. 3^. 6d. HARD TIMES AND PICTURES FROM ITALY. 3s. LIFE OF CHARLES DICKENS. By John Forster. 2 vols. THE HOUSEHOLD EDITION. Complete, with Life by John Forster. 22 vols. crozan opo, cloth, £4 Sj. 6d. THE POPULAR LIBRARY EDITION. Complete in 30 vols. post Zvo, £6 ; separate vols., 4J. each. THE CABINET EDITION. Now PUBI.ISHING. To be completed in 30 vols. small fcap. Svo, Marble Paper Sides, Cloth Backs, zvith uncut edges, price ij. (id. each. A Complete Work will be Published every Month, and each Volume will contain Eight Illustrations reproduced from the Originals. CHRISTMAS BOOKS, i vol. MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT. 2 vols. DAVID COPPERFIELD. 2 vols. OLIVER TWIST, i vol. GREAT EXPECTATIONS, i vol. NICHOLAS NICKLEBY. 2 vols. SKETCHES BY BOZ. i vol. CHRISTMAS STORIES, i vol. DICKENS’S CHRISTMAS BOOKS. REPRINTED FROM THE ORIGINAL PLATES. Fcap. cloth, IJ. each. Illustrated by John Leech, D. Maclise, A CHRISTMAS CAROL. THE CHIMES : A Goblin Story THE CRICKET ON THE HEARTH: A Fairy Tale ok Home. Complete in a case, 5j'. R.A., R. Doyle, C. Stanfield, R.A., &c. THE BATTLE OF LIFE : A Love Story. THE HAUNTED MAN AND THE GHOST’S BARGAIN.14 breakfasts, luncheons, and ball suppers. London ; CHAPMAN AND HALT., Limited. SEVENTH THOUSAND. BREAKFAST AND SAVOURY DISHES. By R. O. C., Compiler of the “ OfiBcial Handbook for the National Training School for Cookery.” Crown 8vo. Is. Prom “THE TIMES.” “ The success which has attended the publication of the Official Handbook of the National Training School for Cookery—a collection of recipes, indeed, rather than a handbook in the accepted sense of the title—has encouraged the compiler, R. O. C., to issue a shilling pamphlet entitled * Breakfast and Savouiy* Dishes,’ for the preparation of which forty-three recipes have been drawn up with careful detail. Loose phraseology of the old cookery books, such as take a ‘ little ’ or a ‘ pinch’ or a ‘ spoonful,’ and so forth, is discarded, and precis, terms and quantities are used instead. At the head of each recipe the quantity of ingredients required for carrying out the recipe, and the cost thereof, are given. Of the forty-three recipes three are allotted to the preparation of potables in ordinary use at the British break- fast-table. A warning note is sounded against allowing tea to stand longer than five minutes, after which the decoction becomes charged with an unwholesome amount of tannin. Deliberate operations are insisted upon for the making of good coffee, and the use and re-use of cocoa-nibs are expounded. Then follow ten methods of making breads, scones, galettes, muffins, crumpets, oat-cakes, short-bread, milk-rolls, and Yorkshire tea-cakes. Somersetshire girdle (or gridiron) cake niight very well have been added to this list. A daintier and not more costly way of cooking aufs an beurre noir is by treating each egg separately, and serving it in a little pipkin or cocote ; and a few more than three recipes for various savoury omelettes might have been given in place of those for potted meats, which do not recommend themselves to small households while endless tins ot potted meats are procurable at any grocers. Then useful recipes for cooking fish—including a succulent arrangement of lobster augratin (at a cost of 3s. gd.)—follow next ; and the series concludes with recipes for grilled and devilled chicken or turkey, and lor pigeon pie, in the completion of which the necessity of following the sound practice of pouring flavoursome gravj^ through the hole in the crust of the baked pie is enforced. “ This little book, as will be seen, is intended for the ready and managing housekeeper. But a Vatel may not find many of its suggestions beneath his notice.” FOURTEENTH THOUSAND. NATIONAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR COOKERY: Containing Lessons on Cookery; forming the Course of Instruction in the School. With List of Utensils necessary, and Lessons on Cleansing Utensils. Compiled by R. O. C. Large crown 8vo. 8s. From “THE TIMES.” “ As a Christmas present a book upon cookery obviously has many and appropriate recommendations. In the ‘ Official Handbook ’ there are, for instance, some very lucid and explicit directions for the making of a plum-pudding, merely to read oyer the ingredients for which has a tendency to make the mouth water. The cost of this article of luxury is, how- ever, something over 4s.—a large sum for poor people to disburse even on unusual occasions of festivity. -A book such as this will, it is probable, be appreciated mostly by those to whom economy in the kitchen is a matter of serious consideration. Turning, therefore, to another page, it is gratifying to find that it is possible to provide, at the cost only of iid., not quite so rare a dainty, perhaps, but a good solid one, three-quarters of a pound in weight. Many other dishes, too, are here set forth, which read as though they should taste well, and the preparation of which need not alarm the thriftiest. The good point about the book is that it presupposes complete ignorance on the part of the pupil; nothing is left to haphazard : quantity is given in its exact and due proportion, and the price of each ingredient carefully set down. All these lessons, moreover, have been practically tested in the National Training School, and may therefore be accepted in good faith. It is not, however, to be supjiosed that any cunning recipes of rare and costly dishes are to be found in this book ; the first principles ’ of good cookery is the lesson it professes to teach, and certainly the method of tuition is direct and easy to follow.”BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. 15 CHAMBERS, MONNERY, & C0„ IRONMONGERS, 41, Bishopsgate St. Without, London (5 minuteUrom Bank of England). THE “BISHOPSGATE” COOKING RANGE. This, the most popular Cooking Stove of the day, is used extensively throughout the Kingdom in small households, and in others as an auxiliary to the larger Range, and ts, m every rase a complete and signal success. I'he strong commendations we have received/ra;« a//^ ’ the world, prove it to be an , jBBiirn-:-* two at —.. FOUR PRIZE MEDALS gMiM HEALTH AWARDED. JMlWfeSi EXHIBITION, .1884. economiser of fuel as well as an excellent performer of all necessary co king. The fire can be lighted in a much shorter time than or- dinary Kitchener fires. Can be had with either vertical fas shown) or horizontal fire bars. These Ranges all have 17 in. deep hot-plates, and are all 23 in. high. Oven and Boiler. Length of Range, Sizes of Oven, and Ovens. Prices. Boiler. Wide. £ s. ti. 2-ft. 4-in. 10-in. 2 12 6 2-ft. 6-in. 12-in. 2 15 0 2- ft. 8 in. 12-in. 2 15 0 3- ft. 0-in. 14-in. 3 5 0 3-ft. 6-in. 16-in. 4 5 0 Oven and Sham. 2-ft. 0-in. 10 in. 1 17 6 2-ft. 2-in. 12-in. 2 0 0 2- ft. 6-in. 14-in. 2 10 0 3- ft. 0 in. 14-in. 2 15 0 3-ft. 2-in. 16-in. 3 5 0 LOVELOCK’S IMPROVED UINOING & SAUSAGE MAKING MACHINES & COFFEE MILLS FOR DOMESTIC USE. No. 2. 15s. Od. No. 3. 21s. Od. No. 4. 42s. Od. They are unrivalled for simplicity and efficiency, and for promoting domestic economy are invaluaVde in every household. Can be obtained of Ironmongers and Dealers in all parts of the World. Wholesale of J. F. LOVELOCK, Broadway Works Hamburg Street, HacKney, London. ESTABLISHED 1856. PRICES OF MINCERS. No. I. lOs. 6d. PRICES OF COFFEE MILLS. No. I. 6s. Od. No. 2. 8s. Od. No. 3. lOs. Od. No. 4. 14s. Od.i6 BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. of A FEW RECIPES FOR HOUSEHOLD USE TO MAKE BREAD .—To every pound of flour add a large heaped-vi> teasioonful Borwick s Gold Medal Baking Powder with a little salt, and thoroughly mix while in a dry state, then pour on gradually about half-a-pint of cold water, or milk and water, mixing quickly but thoroughly into a dough of the usual consistence, taking care not to knead it more than is necessary to mix it perfectly ; make it into small loaves which must be immediately put into a quick oven. ’ PUFF PASTE.—Mix one pound of flour with a teaspoonful of Borwick’s Gold Medal Baking Powder, then cut half-a-pound of butter into slices, roll it in thin sheets on some of your flour, wet up the rest with about a quarter of a pint of water, see that it Js about as stiff as your butter, roll it to a thin sheet, cover it with your sheets of butter double it in a three double ; do the same five times. It is then fit for use, or it may stand an hour covered over to keep the air from it. , MAKE A RICH PLUM CAKE.—Take half-a-pound of butter and halt-a-pound of white sifted sugar, beat these with the hand well together to a cream, add four eggs, one at a time, and well beat each one with the butter and sugar, lightly mix in one pound of flour previously mi.xed with one teaspoonful of Borwick’s Gold Medal Baking Powder, then lightly mix with the whole half-a-pound of sultanas, bake at once, thoroughly, in a quick oven. / „ A GOOD PLAIN CAKE.—Mix well together one pound of ' flour, two full teaspoonfuls of Borwick's Gold Medal Baking Powder, a little salt and spice, and a quarter-of-a-pound of sugar, rub in a quarter-of-a-pound of butter, add six ounces of sultanas, two ounces ol currants, and one ounce ot candied peel ; moisten the whole with two eggs and half-a-teacupful of milk previously beaten together; bake in a quick oven very thoroughly. SCOTCH SCONES.— Take one pound of flour, add a/«//teaspoonful of Borwick s Gold Medal Baking Powder and a little salt, mix thoroughly while dry, rub in two ounces ol butter, beat up one egg well in a quarter-of-a-pint ofmilk or water! then thoroughly and quickly mix together ; bake immediately on a girdle or in a quick oven. This will make eight delicious scones. TEA CAKES .— Use the recipe as for scones, but add a few currants, sultanas, or caraways it preferred. SHORT BREAD .—Mix well together one pound and a quarter of flour, a large leaspoonfiil of Borwick's Gold Medal Baking Powder, and half-a-pound of white sifted sugar, rub in lihlf-a-pound of butter, mix the whole with three eggs, previously well beaten, and a little essence of lemon. Make four cakes out of five ounces of dough, mould into a round form, then roll them out into an oval shape, pinch them round the edges, put a piece of candied lemon-peel at the top, and bake slowly. RICE BISCUITS .—Take half-a-pound of sugar, half-a-pound of best ground rice, half-a-pound of butter, half-a-pound of flour, and half-a-teaspoonful of Borwick's Gold Medal Baking Powder, mix the whole into a paste with two eggs. AN EXCELLENT CHRISTMAS PLUM PUDDING.-Take three- quaners-of-a-pound of flour, two large teaspoonfuls of Borwick’s Gold Medal B.aking Powder, two ounces of bread crumbs, one-an*J-a-half pounds of suet, two pounds of raisins, one pound of currants, ten ounces of sugar, two ounces of almonds, one pound of mi.xed candied peel, salt and spice to taste ; mix ingredients well together, and add six eggs well beaten, and three-quarters-of-a-pint of milk; divide in two and boil eight hours. PANCAKES OR BATTER PUDDING .—Take half-a-pound of flour, two teaspoonfuls of Borwick’s Gold Medal Baking Powder, a little salt, mix well in a dry state, and add one egg and three-quarters-of-a-pint of milk. NORFOLK DUMPLINGS.—Prepare the dough as for bread, put into a sauce- pan of boiling water immediately, and boil twenty minutes without taking the lid off. TELL YOUR GROCERS YOU MUST HAVE BORWICK’S. CALCULATION OP WAGES, &c. ■year. Month Week. Day. Year. Month. Week. Day. V’ear. Month. tWeek. Day, £. C s. d. s, d. s. d. £ £ s. d J. d. s, d. £ ^ s. d. 0 s. d. d. I o 1 f o 4>i o o} lO 0 x6 8 3 loj 0 6J 19 I XX 8 7 3'd I ci 2 o 3 4 o 9i o If XI 0 18 4 4 2d 0 7i 20 I 13 4 7 I Id 3 o 5 o I i5 o 2 12 X 0 0 4 7i 0 8 24 2 0 0 9 2i I 4 4 o 6 8 X 6i o 13 I I 8 s 0 0 8i 2S 2 I 8 9 7i I 4i 5 o 8 4 I II o 3d 14 I 3 4 s 4i 0 gi 28 2 6 8 10 9, I 6i* 6 o 10 o 2 o 4 is I s 0 s 9d 0 gi 30 2 10 0 XX 6J I 7i 7 o 11 8 2 8t o 4i 16 I 6 8 6 id 0 10^ 3S 2 18 4 13 si X XI 8 0 ^3 4 3 I o si 17 I 8 4 6 6i 0 11} 40 3 6 8 IS 4i 2 2^ 9 o o 3 si o 6 18 I 10 0 6 XI 0 ltd 4S 3 IS 0 17 3i 2 siBREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. Three Advertisements specially appealing to Ladies. “ THE DAREINGTON CROSS-WAB.P “SERGES, ALL-WOOL FOULlilS, and GOLD MEDAL CASHMERES (.Always in favour, and never as yet superseded as a Woollen Fabric) have,” says The Queen, “justly a -\frorld-wide reputation, which they fully maintain in their NEW PATTERNS, The Colourings being after the Latest Modes, and exceedingly artistic.” But a line to MESSRS. H. PEASE & Go.’S SUCCESSORS, THE MILLS, DARLINGTON, Will bring a Tempting BOX OF PATTERNS, When the contents can be discussed and studied in a far more satisfactory manner than is conveyed in a mere verbal description. IRISH DAMASK TABLE LINEN. Fish Napkins, 2s. 6d. per dozen. Dinner Napkins 4s. 6d. per dozen. Table Cloth.s, 2 yards square, ^ 2s. 9d. ; 2K yards by 3 yards, 5s. 6d. each. Kitqhen .irf Tablecloths, ll)^d. each. StrongHuckabackTowels, Hffi MAJISIirTHEQUEBlA«"THEIjRD8H PRIHCQS CERMAB Monogr.ams, Crests, Coats-of- Arms, Initials, etc., woven and embroidered. Samples post free.—ROBINSON & CLEAVER, BELFAST. I n ■ n 11 I I r M O Real I"®*’ L'"®" Sheeting, fully bleached, 2 yards wide, Is. 8d. per IRISH LINENO. yard ■, yards wide, 2s. 4><d. per yard (the most durable article made, and far superior to any foreign manufactured goods). Roller Towelling, 18 inches wide, S^d. IRISH CAMBRIC POCKET HANDKERCHIEFS. " pTr“: Court Journal. ROBINSON & CLEAVER, BELFAST. BY ROYAL LETTERS PATENT. As adopted by II.M. Government. EDWARDS’ DESICCATED SOUP. K preparation consisting of Extract ok Beef and Vegetables, a Penny packet of which makes, in a few minutes, .■! MOST DELICIOUS BASIN OF SOUP. From all Grocers, etc., throughout the Kingdom, by your ordering on them, which is preferred to direct dealing. In the event of any difficulty in obtaining it, write direct to the Manufacturers, F. KING & CO., LIMITED, 6, Bishops- gute-avenue, London, or to 26, Waring- street, Belfast. .S.'imples, with Reports, sent free to any address on receipt of in stamps. Keeps good any time, and in PRIZE MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON, 1884. any climate. In Tins, ilb., is. 3d.; 8d.; X"'-. Pacl^et, id.BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. FRYS COCOA TRADE MARK. FRY’S PURE CONCENTRATED COCOA, Prepared by a new and special scientific process, securing extreme solubility, and developing the finest flavour of the Cocoa. From Sir CHAS. A. CAMERON, M.D., President of the Royal College of Surgeons, Ireland. “ 1 have never tasted Cocoa that I like so well. It is Especially Adapted to those whose Digfestive Organs are Weak, and I strongly recommend it as a substitute for Tea for Young Persons.” 32 PRIZE MEDALS AWARDED TO THE FIRM. IMPROVED & ECONOMIC COOKERY. The finest Meat-fiavouring Stock. Eicient Tonic. The best of Night Caps. Ask for the COMPANY’S Extract, and see that it bears Baron Liebig’s signa- ture in blue ink across the label. Extracts sold as BARON LIEBIG’S or Liebig’s have no connection with the Baron.