BLEEDING FROM 318 drawn; but if it will not come away, it is not of consequence, and may be left, as in the first case, to come away of itself; for the process of closing the vessel goes on without inconvenience. The following are some experiments which I made in reference to this subject:— Exp. 1, which was performed with a view to the treatment of those aneurisms in which a ligature cannot be applied upon that part of the artery next the heart, shows that a wooden plug may be passed into a vessel, and the natural processes as regards its closure be accomplished. I divided the carotid artery of a dog, thrust a wooden plug an inch down that portion of the vessel next the heart, and tied it in. No haemorrhage ensued, and the artery healed. Exp. 2. On 6th Jan., 1818, two ligatures were put upon the carotid artery of a sheep, and the vessel divided between them. A hot iron was applied to the end next the heart, till about half-an-inch of it from the ligature towards that organ shrivelled and turned white. At noon of the following day the sheep was killed. A portion of the artery immediately below that which had been cauterized was one-sixteenth of an inch less than the corresponding vessel on the other side of the neck, and contained a coagulum an inch long; but in the uncauterized part the coagulum measured three-eighths of an inch. In other respects the two portions were similar. Exp. 3. On the 12th Jan., 4 p.m., two ligatures were applied on the carotid of a sheep, which was divided between them. The ligature on that part of the vessel next the head was then untied, and the actual cautery passed up it; after which the ligature was retied to prevent haemorrhage. Twenty-one hours after, the sheep was killed, and there was found in the cauterized end a very firm coagulum, two and a half inches long, com- pletely filling the cylinder of the artery, to the extent of one inch from the ligature. The uncauterized end contained a slender filament of coagulum, one inch long. Exp. 4. On the 19th Jan., 3 p.m., I cauterized the lower end of a sheep’s carotid by passing in a tube closed at one end, and introducing the hot iron into it. The ends of the artery were tied as before. At noon of the following day the animal was killed; the ligatures were covered in with lymph, so that the cavity containing them and the ends of the artery was excluded from the air. The lower portion of the carotid con- tained a very firm coagulum, an inch and a quarter long, adhering strongly to the in- ternal coat of the vessel. The coats of the artery and the surrounding cellular mem- brane were much inflamed, and a mass of matter having the appearance of coagulated blood, but which had probably been effused by the inflammation, surrounded the artery about half an inch from the ligature. Exp. 5, made on Jan. 25th, was the reverse of the former. The lower portion of the vessel contained a clot of blood three-quarters of an inch long, and as thick as a probe. The upper portion had nearly the same appearance as the lower in the last ex- periment, except that the coagulum was about an inch longer, and that there was less coagulum around the outside of the artery. In both experiments the iron was passed only once, and as the red heat went off. (2) Although in Cline’s experiment a wooden plug was introduced into the carotid artery of a dog, and the vessel, having been tied upon it, did well, it does not render any support to the plan proposed by Cheliits for treating bleeding ossified arteries. In the former case the vessel was healthy, in the latter diseased, and not very likely to ad- here. I should certainly prefer amputation with the hope of finding the artery healthy above; but if that were not done, I think it would be better to trust either simply to pressure, or to use the actual cautery for the purpose of shrivelling the vessel up, and inducing the formation of a clot, to form a natural plug, and rely upon the accompany- ing increased inflammation to do the best for the patient. Such cases, however, must always be considered very doubtful as to their successful termination.—J.F.S.] 303. Bleeding from wounded veins, although less thought of, may produce dangerous consequences. It is characterized by the above-described symp- toms (par. 276) ; differences may, however, occur, which, for the moment, render the diagnosis difficult. If there be no prevention to the return of the blood, it flows in an unbroken current; but, if there be any obstacle, t the blood spirts in a stream, or even in jets, as if from a wounded artery. This latter circumstance depends either on contraction of the muscles sur- rounding the vein, and is in direct proportion to the strength and frequency of the contractions; or it is consequent on the motion propagated from