169 GONORRHOEA. the truth, it is -worthy of consideration whether medicine can be of any service in this form of the disease. I am inclined to believe it is very seldom of any kind of use, per- haps not once in ten cases.” (p. 75.) “ I believe,” Hunter subsequently observes, “the soothing plan is best at the beginning. * * * In cases where the symptoms run high, nothing should be done that may tend to stop the discharge, either by internal or exter- nal means, for by this nothing would be gained ; as merely stopping the discharge does not put an end to the inflammation. The constitution is to be altered, if possible, by remedies adapted to each disposition, with a view to alter the actions of the parts aris- ing from such dispositions, and reduce the disease to its simple form. If the constitu- tion cannot be altered, nothing is to be done but to allow the parts to tire themselves out by a continuance of the same action.” (p. 77.) The employment of stimulating injections of various kinds, for the purpose of check- ing the discharge in gonorrhoea, has been a favourite practice with many surgeons, and even so long back as John of Arden they were used, but of a very mild character, as shown by his following prescription :— “ Pro morbo qui dicitur Chaude-pisse.—Accipe pursillam et coque in aqua donee in mucilaginem vertatur, qua? mucilago cum oleo rosse et viola; fortiter agitetur addito lacte mulieris puellam nutrientis ana, in quo liquore dissolvatur camphor® uncia una et pro syringam (injectionem) initiatur. Mucilago est qua; quaedam viscositas admodum ga- lature piscium vel earum anglice gelee.”—MSS. Sloane, 2002. Translated by E. H., as follows: — “ Seethe the parsley in water till it come to a mucilage, that is, till the water be made green and slimy, and the substance of the herb be consumed. Then temper with that mucilage oil of roses and oil of violets and the milk of a woman nourishing a maiden child, and then dissolve therein one ounce of camphor, and by a syringe administer it.”— MSS. Sloane, 2271. Beckett mentions another prescription, which, however, I have not found :— “ Contra Incendium.—Item contra incendium virg® virilis interius ex calore et exco- riatione fiat tabs syringa lenitiva. Accipe lac mulieris masculum nutrientis et parum zucarium, oleum viol® et ptisan® quibus commixtis per syringam infundatur et si pr®- dictis admiscueris lac amygdalarum melior erit medicina.” Abernethy objects to any attempt at checking gonorrhoea. “ By endeavouring to arrest the disease in its progress,” says he, “ we are likely to induce irritation in the remote part of the urethra, and other affections; whereas if we merely soothe the malady, and allow it to take its natural course, it declines in due season, wdthout, in general, producing any material injury to the part affected, or to any other in its vicinity.” (p. 278.) _ But patients will not be content to wait till a clap shall “ decline in due season,” al- though recommended so to do on the authority of Hunter and Abernethy. And it therefore becomes necessary to resort to some treatment for shortening the disease, and to relieve the often severe symptoms. Abernethy’s soothing practice is especially good when the inflammatory stage is very active, and is not unfrequently sufficient under ordinary circumstances; for Hunter’s supposition, that “ every such inflammation gets well of itself,” is often true enough. Abernethy’s plan consists in “ bathing the perinmum and genitals with tepid water, by means of the bidet and sponge, for five or six minutes every night and morning; at the same time desiring them to wash beneath the fore-skin, so as to remove every thing lodged there, and to wash this part drawn well forward, and to protect the orifice of the urethra from mechanical irritation. * * * I also recommend those who are affected with clap to be very attentive to keeping their bowels in a regular state, because any in- quietude in the bowels is likely to produce an irritable state of the urinary organs.” (p. 278.) I formerly adopted this soothing practice almost entirely, prescribing the following mixture:—R magnes. sulph. 3i., potass, nitr. gr. \.,acac. pulv. 3i., tinct. liyoscyam. itpv., aq. destill.ii., ter quaterve indie; under which treatment, either without or with mild injections of sulphate of zinc when all scalding had subsided, the disease was generally cured in ten days or a fortnight. Or I gave pills of the following composition:—R tereb. chia 9ij.,pulv. rhei f>i., syr. q. s., et in pil. xij. dividend.; four of these, twice a-day, were first given, and the number increased afterwards to six or eight as might be needed. But, of late, I have only employed the injection of a very mild solution of nitrate of silver, three grains to sixteen ounces of water, before the scalding ceases, and even when there is inflammation of the testicle, twice or thrice a-day, and I have never yet wit- nessed any ill effects; but the contrary, as, in two or three days the gonorrhoea is usually stopped.