742 URETHRAL FISTULA; 958. In those fistulas which have much loss of substance, various expe- riments have been made to close them by grafting skin (Urethroplasty.) A. Cooper, Earle, Alliot, Delpecii, Ricord have formed the cover- ing flaps from the skin of the scrotum and groin twisted round; but Cooper and Alliot alone have obtained any satisfactory result. The ground of this frequent disappointment is easily perceived, and Dieffen- bach has proposed for such cases a corresponding operation by transplant- ing by means of removing the skin. 959. In fistula near the scrotum, after the catheter has been introduced into the bladder, the edges of the fistula are to be seized with a pair of hook forceps, and so drawn out that a transverse wound with two sharp points stretching on each side of the penis is formed. A longitudinal fold of the skin of the scrotum is to be then raised and cut through to the extent of two inches, so that a transverse wound, parallel to the former, is produced, and the bridge of skin which has been formed by it is de- tached from its base by cutting horizontally, then drawn forwards and fastened with five or six twisted stitches to the edge of the skin of the penis. Beneath the hinder edge of this bridge of skin, an elastic bougie two inches long is to be introduced to the aperture in the urethra, in order to divert the urine pressing out by the side of the catheter. After some days the threads are to be removed, and the union to be sustained with sticking plaster. 960. In large fistulas in the middle or fore part of the penis, the trans- planting of the skin may be effected in various ways. In great deficiency of the urethra in the middle of the penis, with destruction of the skin, so that the edges of the latter cannot be drawn over the opening by lateral incision and setting free the bridge, the edges of the skin about the aper- ture must be set free, without separation, so far as may be easily done, then a longitudinal incision must be made on each side of the root of the penis, so that the wound occupies two-thirds of the extent of the penis. The outer skin of the prepuce is then to be drawn somewhat back, the skin of the first incision raised on the opposite side of the.penis, behind the corona glandis, in a large longitudinal fold, and here also two-thirds of the skin of the penis cut through. The covering of the penis included between the two incisions and usually forming a bridge of skin two inches broad, is now to be separated, the edge raised with a pair of forceps, and the cellular tissue divided with a pair of sharp eye-scissors. The skin is now to be drawn completely down, so that the sound skin of the back of the penis descends and completely covers the hole in the urethra. Any ten- sion of the skin is relieved by lengthening the incision. To prevent the collection of blood between the skin and the pe?iis, the bleeding must be carefully stanched, and then the retraction of the skin to its old situation prevented, and its union promoted by some stitches and by some narrow strips of well sticking adhesive plaster. From the hinder edge of the wound, on the under side of the penis, a piece of elastic bougie is pushed beneath the skin, towards the hole in the urethra, in order to conduct exter- nally the urine dribbling by the catheter. Erections must be especially prevented, and on their occurrence the strips of plaster must be cut through. After four or five days, if the skin be grown together, the threads may be cut, but the application of the sticking plaster must be continued. The bougie is only to be left off1 after the most complete healing.