TREATMENT OF BURNS—POULTICE. 118 observe that the removal of the clothes should he effected with great carefulness, and Earle’s advice as to thoroughly soaking them in water, either warm or cold, according as the practitioner may prefer applying his remedies in one or other state, is very excel- lent and highly deserving of being acted on. After soaking, it is better to cut the clothes through with scissors, till the whole will drop off or the patient can be lifted out of them, rather thau to drag him about as is frequently done for the purpose of saving the clothes at the expense of the patient’s skin. My own observation and experience lead me to consider the local treatment of scalds and burns as very simple, the great object in view, if there be vesication, to whatever extent, without death of the skin or subjacent parts, being to defend the exposed highly sensible surface of the true skin from the air, by affording it an artificial sheathing, and thus relieving the irritation of the nervous system. If the vesications be unbroken, I think it best to leave them undisturbed, as adhesive matter is speedily effused over the surface of the true skin, directly after the effusion of serum has ceased; an observation which may be daily made in watching the progress of an artificial blister. After a time, about forty-eight hours, the serum within the vesication becomes irritant, and this cir- cumstance is indicated by the margin of the uninjured skin bounding it presenting a red line. The skin must then be punctured in several parts, varying according to the size of the blister, and near its base, so that the serum may escape, which it generally does slowly, the serum now holding in solution a large quantity of albumen, and not unfre- quently seeming as it were contained in large cells, resembling those containing the vitreous humour of the eye, although much larger. If when the patient be first seen the blisters are found already burst, the cuticle should not, on any account be removed; for, wherever it covers it forms too good a sheathing to be taken away. In either of these cases I generally first apply linen soaked in warm lime water and linseed oil, keeping it continually wetted with a sponge, without removal for forty-eight hours, after which, suppuration having by that time usually commenced on those parts of the wound which require it for their cure, I have the lime water and oiled cloths gently removed, and all the injured parts, whether to little or great extent, enveloped in bread and milk poultices, which are renewed twice or thrice a day, according to the discharge. This application is very bland, a delicate film from the coagulable part of the milk, and the mucilaginous portion of the bread soon covers the exposed tender surface, or keeps the remaining cuticle supple and moist, thereby rendering the patient extremely comfortable, at the same time, also, that he is kept very clean, and free from offensive smell, which are points of extreme importance in the treatment of scalds and burns, as regards both the health and comfort of the patient. I rarely find it necessary to employ any other treatment; for, if the accident be not extensive, in a few days it heals, and, if it be more spread, though the time of cure is necessarily longer, yet, the same result ensues. Some- times, however, more to relieve the patient from the strict rest which the poultice requires than for any other cause, after five or six days, the poultice is left off, and zinc ointment spread on lint or soft linen is applied. If the true skin, or together with it more or less of the subjacent parts be destroyed, I still consider a poultice the best, most cleanly, and most comfortable application, made either simply of bread and milk, or bread and linseed meal, which are to be continued till all the sloughs have separated and granulations have been fully produced. After which wax and oil, or zinc ointment, or calamine ointment, spread on lint, may be gently bound on with a roller. If the granulating surface be very extensive, it is generally long in cicatrizing; the granulations become pale and flaccid, or even disappear, and the pus thins and becomes limpid on the slightest disturbance of the digestive organs, thus putting a temporary stop to the cure ; but, the irritation removed, things revert to their former channel, and heal- ing is resumed. These alternations occur frequently in the course of a long cure, and must always be carefully watched and tended, as often the suspension of suppuration for a few hours causes determination to other parts, as the brain, lungs, and mucous membrane of the bowels, and the patient is cut off at the very time when there is every reason for his recovery. From the observation I have made of the various modes of treating scalds and burns, it appeal’s to me that it is matter of little consequence what the primary application is, provided it be warm or capable of preserving the warmth of the part. Cold washes I do not approve of, especially if the injured surface be large, as then a considerable portion of the body or limbs is suddenly cooled, and very frequently severe shivering is excited which adds much to the patient’s discomfort; or if, as is often the case, the patient be already shivering, that condition is increased by the application of cold. If stimulants be at first applied according to Kentish’s plan, or, if cold washes be