432 WOUNDS OF THE close to the vessel, especially the pneumo-gastric, be not included in the ligature. The injured branches of the carotid artery may be tied either in the open wound, or after carefully enlarging it, or, if this be not pos- sible, the principal trunk of the carotid is to be tied (1). ("(1) The celebrated Marquis of Londonderry destroyed himself by stabbing the ca- rotid artery with a penknife ; and at the time it was believed that had his medical attend- ant acted promptly and properly, his life might have been saved. I recollect an instance many years since under my friend Travers’s care in St. Thomas’s Hospital, in which either the lingual or facial artery was also wounded with a penknife in an attempt at self-destruction. The wound was enlarged with the intention of tying the bleeding vessel, but the Avound in it was too close to its origin to admit such proceeding. The common carotid artery was therefore tied; but the case Avas unsuccessful, as adhesion never took place, and Avhen the ligature ulcerated through, bleeding occurred several times; at last a large clot formed in the wound, from Avhich constant oozing Avent on; and on the removal of this to secure the artery, a violent gush of blood folloAved, and the patient died immediately.—J. F. S.] 466. Injuries of tlie Pneumo-gastric Nerve cause loss of voice, spas- modic symptoms, and death. Injury of the Recurrent Nerve also causes loss of voice ; this, however, may occur subsequently. Injury of the Laryngeal Nerve is mortal from arrest of breathing (a); and this is also the especial branch which so quickly produces death after the division of the Avhole nerve. According to Dupuy’s (b) experiments, animals may live for some time after division of both pneumo-gastric nerves, if the air- tube be opened below the larynx; but, if the opening be not made, the animal dies on account of the palsy of the nerves spreading over the muscles opening the chink of the glottis. If the Sympathetic or Phrenic Nerve, or the spinal marrow be injured, death in convulsions follows. 467. Wounds of the Windpipe are either longitudinal or transverse; the windpipe may be either only cut into, or cut through, or a piece of it taken away as in shot-wounds. Vertical wounds of the windpipe require union with sticking plaster, and that the head should be inclined much backwards. Transverse wounds divide it either partially or entirely ; they are mostly consequent on attempted self-destruction, and are usually found at the upper part of the neck, between the larynx and the tongue-bone; penetrate to a great extent into the back of the mouth ; allow the air, spittle, and drink to escape through them, or even penetrate into the larynx. They are rare at the lower part of the windpipe. In these wounds, if the voice be at once lost, the air passes through the wound (1), frequently an air-swelling is produced (2), and blood flowing into the windpipe may give rise to dangerous symptoms. This may occur without the carotid artery, jugular vein, or pneumo-gastric nerve being wounded ; the bleeding may come only from the superior thyroid, or from the lingual artery. [(1) The loss of the voice in large wounds of the Avindpipe simply depends on the air passing out through the aperture, instead of proceeding through the larynx; this is readily proved, if by bringing the head forward, the edges of the wound can be brought sufficiently close to prevent the escape of the air through it, as then the air takes its natural course through the larynx, and a whisper more or less loud, or even a feeble A'oice can be heard. (2) Hennen says:—“ Emphysema is also a frequent though not dangerous symptom of wounds of the Avindpipe; indeed 1 have met Avith it oftener in Avounds of the larynx and trachea than in those of the lungs, probably because the action of the muscles sub- servient to respiration is exerted in such a manner as to send a current of air through (a) Pve, Aufsiitze und Beobactungen aus der (b) Journal de Medecine, par Lx Roux, etc. gerichtlichen Arzneiwissenschaft. Sami. vii. p. vol. xxxvii. p. 351.—Meckel, Handbuch der ge- 185. richtlichen Mcdecin. Ilalle, 1821, p. 172.