DEEP ABSCESS OF THE BREAST. 153 scrofula, gout, syphilis, and so on. In many cases the inflammation sets in without any manifest cause, and the ground of the irritation may be merely the sympathetic relation of the breast to the womb, which dis- covers itself especially at the period of decrepitude, and in unfruitful women, in whom the functions of the womb have never gone on regularly. 151. The treatment of such inflammation must be guided by the pre- vious mischief. Repeated application of leeches, infriction of mercurial ointment, warm covering of the breast, and internal remedies suited to the general dyscracy, are here required, although they can rarely prevent the production of hardening. When this takes place, it must be treated after the general rules. 152. In rare cases, either during suckling or not, deep-seated abscesses form in the breast gland or between it and the pectoral muscles, the for- mation of which is connected with a deep-seated pain, at first shifting, burning, tearing, with a considerable colourless swelling of the whole breast, and pain on moving the arm, and it continues for a long time before any external fluctuation can be perceived. The pus frequently makes its way out at several points, and the breast gland is hard and i swollen. If these suppurating passages be opened, they present a soft j reddish fungus. When fluctuation in such abscesses can be ascertained, they must be opened early. If fistulous passages have formed, they must be laid open throughout their whole length, or, in order to prevent deformity of the breast, and interference with its function, (according to i Langexbeck, the ligature should be introduced,) softening poultices and ! rubbing with mercurial ointment should be employed. If a part of the breast be so distended by these passages that, after opening them, it seems n to hang as it were by a neck, it should be entirely removed ; the cure soon ' follows. The passage to suppuration may perhaps be prevented by the ’ early employment of diaphoretics, by emetics, by dry warmth, and by the application of derivative blisters in the very neighbourhood of the breast. Hey, William, Surgical Observations. Richter’s, Medicinische und chirurgische Bemerkungen, vol. i. p. 50. Langenbeck, Nosologie und Therapie der chirurgischen Ivrankheiten, vol. ii. p. 264. [In the description which Astley Cooper gives of chronic abscess of the breast, it ‘ will be seen that he had not noticed the severe pain to which Chelius alludes. “ Under chronic inflammation,” says Cooper, “ an abscess is sometimes produced, which, from the length of time it is forming, from the little pain which attends it, from I the absence of redness and heat in the part, and from the want of rigors and other con- stitutional symptoms, prevents the suspicion of the formation of matter, and the swelling is supposed to be a malignant tumour, which requires an operation for its removal.” (P- 14.) I had once the ill luck of operating on such a case, of which the following is the account, and will be found to tally so nearly with the ordinary history and course of scirrhus that I may be held excused. Case—E. S., aged forty-five years, a married woman, admitted, Jub/ 23, 1835. About twelve months since received a blow on the right breast, and four months after, whilst suckling, received another, but she felt nothing more than a t slight shooting, of which she took no heed till after weaning her child four months since. She had not suckled from this breast, as the last child would not take it; but the i secretion continued, and the milk flowed out till she ceased to suckle. After weaning, the breast began to swell, and she first noticed the lump, for which she applied leeches -■ and fomentations. These diminished the general swelling, but without dispersing the lump, which, on the contrary, continued increasing, accompanied with smarting pain, 1 and at the time of her admission was about the size of a pigeon’s egg, situated just below i and to the outer side of the nipple, with the skin slightly adherent, very hard, and the 6 nipple somewhat retracted.