583 OF THE BONES OF T1IE LEG. therefore, very easily displaced. Posch’s (a) foot-bed or Sauter’s (/>) machine serves best for permanent extension. 708. In fractures of the leg near the knee-joint, the setting is best i managed in the half bent position, which is the most proper during the cure. The contentive apparatus is to be applied with this difference, that one splint is to be put in front, another upon the inner, and one upon the back of the lee, which should lie on the outer side, or on a double inclined bed. If the head of the shin-bone be broken obliquely into the knee- joint, the leg must be kept straight, fixed by the contentive apparatus, and stiffness prevented by early motion. 709. Fracture of the leg is frequently connected with a wound produced ?by external violence, or by tearing of the soft parts by pieces of bone being driven outwards. In the latter case the wound must be enlarged, and often the piece of bone sawn off, m order to effect the proper replacement. The seat and direction of the fracture determine the kind of apparatus. The simple contentive bandage has in these cases the disadvantage of requiring frequent renewal, on account of attending to the wound. Here i the suspensory apparatus, in which the limb lies free, and the wound can i be properly attended to, is best. Braun’s (c) machine is merely a sus- ■ pendor, and can therefore principally serve in those cases only in which ! the broken ends, after being set, have no disposition to displacement. I When this is the case, Posch’s foot-bed, with Eichiieimer’s (d) improve- i ment, or Sauter’s machine, best answer the purpose. These two machines i have the advantage that they not only suspend the leg, but also keep it i permanently extended. Seutin’s permanent apparatus for fracture of the leg may be easily modified from i that for fracture of the thigh. The thigh part is not required; the apparatus, how- 1 ever, must be applied of sufficient length upon the broken parts. In fracture near the knee-joint, it must therefore reach over the lower part of the thigh-bone. As in the leg there is little danger of separation, the patient may lie in winter upon a sofa at the fire, and in summer he may sit in the sun, so that the bandages may dry in twelve hours, if there be no special disposition to inflammation in the joint. [The treatment of fracture of the leg, when either one of the bones only is broken, is very easy, the unbroken bone forming the best and most efficient splint which can be ■ provided. And indeed if the patient be quiet, there is no real necessity for splint or i bandage of any kind, which, however, it is necessary to apply to quiet the anxiety of • the patient and his friends. If, however, both bones be broken, they must be kept in i place by apparatus of some kind or other. If wooden splints be used, one on each side is sufficient, and the leg is best laid upon the side, with the knee half bent to relax the | muscles, and the tip of the great toe so raised as to be on the same level with the knee- ! cap. I do not think that usually there is any necessity for the application of a third ! splint along the shin. Especial care must be taken that the edges and ankle-holes of the I splints are well covered, so as to prevent their digging into the skin and forming tiresome t sores. Some prefer the straight posture with the leg resting on the heel, but I think the ! bent is more agreeable to the patient. In the common transverse fractures of the leg, my colleagues and myself almost invariably use the gum roller, without either splints or fracture-box, and with very great success, as well as comfort to the patient, who is not then confined to his bed more than six or eight days, but allowed to be about on crutches. The plaster of Paris apparatus of Seutin, or the white of egg and flour splints with starch roller, may either of them be used in this fracture advantageously ; but they : occupy more time in their application, and we now seldom use them. Oblique fracture (<0 Beschreibung einer neuen, sehr boquemen Mascliine, das Fussbett genannt, zur Ileilung des Schienbeinbriiches. Wien, 1774. 8vo. (6) Above cited. (c) Metzger Beschreibung der llRAUN’schen Mascliine zur zweckmiissigen I.age einl'acher und comp'icirter Beinbruche derunteren (jliedmassen. Ulm, 1800. (d) Beschreibung and Abbildung einer Mascliine fiir einfarhe und complicirteBeinbriiche des t nter- selienkels, welchenaeiiderPoscH und Braun sclien Mascliine construirt, die Vortlieile desselben verei- nigt, nebst einer Vorriclitung, welche bei dem Transportiren solcher Patienten gebraucht wcrden kann; with five lithographed engravings. Mi'rn- chen,1821. 8vo.