663 FRICTION-CUKE. when these symptoms have subsided, the mercury must be resumed. When salivation has commenced, many remedies are advised; as purgatives, sulphur, camphor, opium, blisters, and so on, but experience does not confirm their particular effect. The most suitable, however, are keeping warm, change of linen, warm bed, attention to keeping the bowels open, the use of astringent gargles for the mouth ; internally, bark, acids, espe- cially the phosphoric. It must not, however, be overlooked that in confirmed Lues it is necessary for its fundamental cure, that the mercury should be continued to incipient salivation, which should be kept up for several weeks, as frequently that alone proves the sufficient operation of the mercury upon the constitution. 841. In cases of very old venereal disease, in which often the modes of treatment prescribed are insufficient, several very active modes of cure have been proposed, among which may be especially reckoned, 1, the Friction and Hunger Cure; 2, the Mercurial Cure, after Weinuold’s plan ; and, 3, Zittmann’s Decoction. 842. The Friction-Cure, long since (a) highly esteemed, has recently been brought into great repute by Louvrier (A) and Rust (c). The latter has also extended its employment to diseases not syphilitic, of which, however, a complete destruction is the foundation of the reproduc- tive processes. The mercury does not, in this treatment, operate as a specific against scrofulous, gouty, syphilitic and other diseases, but simply as exciting the activity of the lymphatic system, by which the absorption may go on to completion, the previous degeneracy return to the natural condition, the entirely useless deposits be got rid of, and so a perfect consent of the organism produced. 843. This cure is indicated in syphilitic disease where disordered diges- tive organs forbid the internal use of mercury ; when from the mercury a too little or too great affection of the bowels or of the whole system occurs ; when the syphilis, having become a general affection, attacks the bones and tendons; when caries, exudation into the joints, hardening or disor- ganization of the different tissues are present; and when the syphilis will not yield to the internal use of mercury: in diseases not syphilitic, in which from mere gouty, scrofulous, or rickety causes, swellings in the skin, glands, and bones, growth or other diseased affections are produced as the result of an anomalous vegetation, and cannot be removed by other means, for instance, swellings of the joints, dropsy of the joints, spina ventosa, and wide-spreading ulcers : also in herpetic, leproid eruptions, har- dening of the testicles, of the breasts, and so on. Even in those cases where diseases arise from simply local causes, hardening and degeneration of the cellular tissue, callous changes, carious destructions, fistulous ulcers and the like, which on account of their unnatural condition and situation often for years withstand every kind of treatment, even the repeated appli- cation of the knife, or even render the latter impossible. 844. The friction cure is always a very severe mode of treatment, and for the patient, accompanied with much trouble (1). It must therefore not be employed on those patients who are very weakly, who have very irritable nerves, in hysterical, hypochondriacal patients, in those who are much disposed to agitation or are affected with other diseases, as complaints of (a) Faber, above cited. silbereinreibungen in svphilitischen und nicht (b) Above cited. svphilitischen Krankheiten ; in his Magazin fir 00 Ueber die Heilkraft der methodischen Queck- die gesammte Heilkunde, voi. i. p. 3<>4.