RETENTION OF LIGATURES. 307 being brought together, or if, in a sloughing sore, an artery be opened by ulceration, then both ends may be cut off without hesitation; but otherwise it is best to retain one, were it only that its separation proves that another cause may produce the fistulous pas- sages which occasionally form in wounds, of which, perhaps, nearly the whole, except- ing these, has healed quickly and kindly. The employment of silk-worm gut was first proposed by Dr. M'Sweeny, of Cork, Ireland (a), that of leather, or the animal liyature, consisting of chamois leather rolled, was recommended in 1814 by Physick, of Pennsylvania, who, according to Dr. Reese (6), thinks that, as it is “ made of animal matter, the knot, which is all that is left in the wound, will serve long enough to obliterate the artery, and be speedily removed by the absorbents, thus avoiding the difficulty arising from a foreign body, however small.” Astley Cooper had at one time a fancy for catgut ligatures; he says (c) :—“ Cat- gut, employed as a ligature, being more of the nature of the animal matter in which it is embedded, will be more easily absorbed than silk, or, if even not absorbed, will be less likely to excite irritation in the parts.” (p. 126.) He tied the femoral artery, in a case of popliteal aneurism, with this substance previously soaked in water heated to 100° Fahrenheit, cut off'both ends, and closed the wround with adhesive plaster; on the fourth day after the operation the wound was completely united; in three weeks he walked about the ward with a crutch ; no kind of untoward symptoms appeared, and he was perfectly cured by the fifty-fourth day. This practice may have been pursued with two or three cases, but was soon given up, though I do not recollect for what reason. I have also an indistinct notion of Cooper having on one occasion used an isinglass ligature, but I have not any note on the subject to refer to. He, however, commonly used Dutch twine. The material now generally employed is silk of various thickness, according to the size of the artery to be tied. It should be well twisted and round, and should be slightly waxed when used. As regards the time required for the separation of ligatures, it is very various, and may depend on the constitutional powers of the patient, or on accidental causes. I have known a ligature on the femoral artery come away in ten days; but in the last case of popliteal aneurism on which I operated it did not come out till the fortieth day. My friend Callaway tells me, that very recently, in a similar case, he has withdrawn a ligature four months after its application; and my friend Guthrie, that a short time ago he had pulled away a ligature from the brachial artery which had remained four months after amputation of the arm. There is also in the museum of St. Thomas’s a preparation of a ligature which had been applied to the femoral artery, and remained in the stump. I cannot exactly say upon the artery, till death, six months after. Sometimes the ligature has been allowed to remain for many weeks in consequence of the agonizing pain produced when even very gently pulled. In such cases it may be presumed that a nerve has been included in the ligature, as happened with a a patient of Chop art’s, in which it remained till death; and the parts are in our mu- seum at St. Thomas’s. The like untoward accident befel our celebrated naval hero, Lord Nelson, whose arm was amputated at the attack on Teneriffe ; the ligature was retained several months, and caused him violent agony, but was at last removed by Dr. Beattie. Occasionally it happens that the artery is not perfectly sealed up after the applica- tion of a ligature; and when the thread begins to ulcerate the vessel begins to bleed: this occurred many years ago, in a case in which my friend Green tied the subclavian artery for axillary aneurism. On the fourteenth day after the operation, an arterial bleeding to the amount of a pint occurred from the wound ; it was, however, stopped by a quarter of an hour’s firm pressure, after which cold wet linen was applied, no further bleeding ensued, and on the twenty-seventh day the ligature came away. The wound healed, except a small sinus from whence there was only a slight discharge, which con- tinued open. From this about midnight of the 31st of October, exactly thirteen weeks after the operation, a sudden jet of blood occurred whilst he was asleep, but was easily stopped by pressure. On the following evening, whilst he was voiding his water, the arterial bleeding again recurred in a jet and as large as the aperture of the sinus would : permit. Pressure, however, soon checked it, and, after having been kept for an hour was I ^jtbdrawn and cold wash only applied. He slowly recovered without further accident, i this, although an extreme and very uncommon case, is a good example of the ad- vantage of leaving the parts at rest and undisturbed, if the haemorrhage can be stayed (o) Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. xiv. p. 18. Ip'- ' a"d Jamieson's Edition of Samuel (c) On the Ligature of the Aorta; in his and II opeh s Dictionary. Travers’ Surgical Essavs. x 2