TREATMENT. 615 treatment must be employed. In proportion as the inflammation dimi- nishes, the secretion of pus increases. If an ulcer be in an erethetic condition, its base is also very much red- i dened, but its sensibility extraordinarily increased. Here are serviceable narcotic remedies, both internally and externally ; rubbings in of warm oil of henbane, poultices of hemlock, henbane, and the like. In torpid conditions, depending on local or general weakness, the ulcer shows relaxation ; the surrounding parts are pale, relaxed, and ccdema- tously swollen; the ulcer is insensible, and secretes a quantity of ill-con- ditioned thin pus. Here such local and general treatment must be em- ployed as may increase the living activity and thereby promote the secre- tion of good pus. (Compare par. 62.) 754. The variety of ulcers, in reference to their form, requires peculiar attention in their treatment. The Foul or Gangrenous Ulcer ( Ulcus putridum, gangrenosum, Lat; faule oder brandige Geschwiir, Germ. ; Ulcere gangreneux, Fr.) is j characterized by a foul, grayish-yellow or blackish surface, by insensibility, and by the secretion of a discoloured very fetid pus; the sloughy character often spreads over the whole extent of the ulcer and the parts are either gangrenous or sphacelated. The causes of this change in the ulcer may be neglect of cleanliness, improper treatment, impeded circulation, foul air, bad food, gastric impurities, weakened constitution, debility of the vascular system, cachexia, and the like. The treatment consists in removing the causes, and in employing such remedies as promote throwing off the gangrenous parts or the restora tion of those, not yet completely destroyed to their natural vitality, which is to be attempted by the use of internal and external remedies. Bark, valerian, camphor, naphtha, the mineral acids, and so on, are employed internally ; externally, decoction of bark, or oak bark with lime water, of walnut shells, of water-germander, with spirits of wine, vinegar, and so on ; aromatic spirituous washings of the surface surrounding the sore, charcoal powder with bark, oil of turpentine, digestive salves of myrrh, or camphor, solution of chloride of lime, fermenting poultices of flour, yeast, and honey. In general the resins or essential oils are more effective than moist remedies. If general dyscrasy exist, suitable remedies must be employed. When por- tions of the surface of the ulcer have separated, they must be removed ; and cuts made when collections of pus beneath the destroyed parts are to be feared. Frequent cleansing especially, the local application of oil of turpen- tine, spirituous remedies, tincture of aloes, or sublimate, must be had recourse to against the worms and maggots which are not unfrequently produced in these ulcers. More suitable than these numerous and in their operation very different remedies, is the use of mild aromatic applications, or poultices, by which the living activity is best increased, and the foul smell also dimin- ished, as already mentioned ( par. 72) in the general treatment of gangrene. _ The solution of chloride of lime in water in different proportions, according to the vital disposition of the ulcer, is recommended as most highly efficient in gangrenous, and especially in foul and torpid ulcers (Percy, Lararraque.) Lisfranc (a) bandages the ulcer with a moistened compress, and applies on it cliarpie soaked in a solution of chloride of lime. Lemaire (6) uses one part of chloride of lime and three parts of water. Ekl (c) first employed fifteen grains of chloride of lime in eleven ounces of water, and afterwards four grains to an ounce. According to Klimatis (d) it should fa} Revue Medicate, 1821. (c) Rat. mod. in schola cl. med. et chir. univers- al Archives Generates, vol. ix. p. 138 Lnndish, 1826. (d) Froriep’s Notizen, vol. xvi. no. 7, p. 107.