TREATMENT OF INFLAMED TONSILS. 140 125. This inflammation originates most commonly from cold in delicate persons unused to exposure to the air, also from any severe irritation of the throat, from spreading of the inflammation from other parts, from the venereal disease, from eruptions of the skin, and so on. 126. In most eases the inflammation of the tonsils is resolved; not unfrequently it runs into suppuration less indeed as consequence of its own activity than of a peculiar disposition which inflammations of the throat in many persons have to pass into suppuration, more especially if former attacks of the kind have terminated in a similar manner. This may be looked for when the inflammation of the throat has existed for several days with uniform severity, when the sensation of pressure in the throat becomes greater and much mucus is collected therein. The passing into hardening is never observed in active, rapid inflammation of the throat, but when it creeps on slowly and recurs frequently ; the consequence of which is, a groivth (or hypertrophy) of the parenchyma of the tonsil gland rather than an actual hardening. The passage into gangrene is always dependent on a malignant character of the accompanying fever, and is extremely dangerous. [Abscess in the tonsil having once occurred, is very commonly again and again pro- duced whenever inflammation attacks the gland, and so quickly that any attempt to prevent its formation is useless, the inflammation rushing, as it were, headlong into suppuration. During its course the agony and inconvenience are very great; but, on the bursting or opening of the abscess, the symptoms as suddenly cease. Dr. Tweedie (a) says, that although enlargement of the tonsils results from repeated . attacks of inflammation, “ it is, however, in some instances congenital, and occasionally appears to be hereditary, and in such individuals it is often associated with traces of the strumous diathesis. The enlargement generally exists without induration of the tonsil, more especially when it occurs in young persons: when it arises as a consequence of in- flammation, and more particularly in elderly people, the enlargement is generally accom- panied by induration.” (p. 185.) Gangrene of the tonsils is very rare, and in the two cases, both fatal, mentioned by Guersent (b), it was only attendant on more important disease. In the first case the tonsils appeared to be attacked simply with severe inflammation, and were fortunately relieved by antiphlogistic treatment; but subsequently they became livid, produced a secretion resembling wine lees, and very offensive, and on the seventeenth day the patient died. On examination, besides softening and black or dark-grayish disorganiza- tion of the tonsils and soft palate, the same change was found in a portion of the right lung. In the second case, the tonsils were at first but slightly inflamed ; on the third or fourth day, however, they assumed a brownish colour, and a very offensive smell, and when cut into were not painful. The patient gradually sunk with vomiting and severe gastro-enteritis, but unaccompanied with much febrile excitement. After death the mucous membrane of tbe stomach and part of the small intestines were bright red, and in the former covered with a white soft elastic false membrane, (p. 134.)] T27. The treatment differs according to the activity of the inflam- mation and the accompanying- fever. In slight inflammation mild dia- phoretics are of service, as elder and lime-flower tea, solution of acetate i of ammonia, hydrochlorate of ammonia, and so on ; in the more active 1 degree, bleeding, application of leeches, nitre in emulsion, calomel. For bathing the inflamed part soothing decoctions are used in form of gargles J or injections, which latter more readily clear away the mucus and do not i produce any straining of tiie parts. The inhaling of warm soothing vapours i also serves the same purpose. [Dr. Watson (c) says the only gargle he considers “ admissible in the commencement of the malady, is a gargle of warm milk and water. * * * But far better than any- (a) Diseases of the Throat; in Cyclopaedia of (6) Diet, de Medecine, vol. ii.—Article, Angine | Practical Medicine, vol. iv. Gangreneuse. (c) Lectures on the Principles and Practice of Physic, vol. i. London, 1843. 8vo.