719 NATURAL CURE. and lower part of the intestine protrude at once, there are two pro- jections, and the stools are discharged from the middle of the upper end of the intestine. From this protrusion often arise very painful draggings in the belly, which prevent the patient keeping himself upright, and compel him to bend the upper part of his body almost horizontally forwards. In this complication of artificial anus, the symptoms are always more severe, digestion is highly affected, wasting makes quick progress, and leads to ' marasmus, if the local relations of the parts be not changed. 917. Fsecular fistula and artificial anus may be consequence of pene- trating wounds of the belly, accompanied with injury of the intestine or with a protrusion which runs on to gangrene, also of gangrenous ruptures, I of abscesses, of foreign bodies in the intestinal canal, and so on, by which either only one part of the wall of an intestine, or an entire coil of intes- tine is destroyed, in which case adhesion with the peritoneum takes place, at the circumference of the destroyed gut, and the effusion of stools into the cavity of the belly is prevented. [Teale gives in his essay a very good tabular account of cases of artificial anus ■ resulting from these various causes.] 918. Upon the different position and state of the upper and lower por- i tions of the intestine in artificial anus depends, whether the cure can be ! effected merely by the natural powers, or by the simultaneous assistance of | art, or only by the intervention of an operation. The destroyed intestine, r together with the corresponding part of the peritoneum, to which it adheres, retracts into the belly, where it forms a funnel-like cavity, which, i in proportion as it enlarges, directs the passage of the stools from the i upper end of the intestine into the lowrer. This, however, cannot happen i in artificial anus, which forms after penetrating wounds of the belly, after > old umbilical and ventral ruptures, when either the injured gut heals up with the edges of the outer wound, or the hernial sac becomes firmly adherent with the aponeurosis and abdominal coverings, and the extensible | cellular tissue, which surrounds it in other ruptures, is deficient, conse- quently the adherent piece of intestine cannot retract into the belly b sufficiently to form the funnel-like cavity by which the communication of >: the two ends of the intestine is produced. The cure of artificial anus in ii this way most readily occurs, when only part of the wall of the intestine is : destroyed ; but when both ends of the gut, between which a coil has i been destroyed, are so connected and held by the mesentery, that they lie I more or less parallel, and form an acute angle, a projecting partition is thereby formed which prevents the communication betw een the upper and lower ends of the intestine. If the projection of this partition cannot be i removed by the retraction of the pieces of the bowel, the restoration of the natural passage of the stools is possible by destroying this partition. The retraction of the piece of intestine specially depends on the movements of the bowel and the dragging of the mesentery, which, stretched like a cord from the ■ back of the partition projecting between the openings of both portions of intestine to the spine, is always striving to retract the piece of adherent bowel. Thus is easily seen the effect which the recumbent posture and motion have upon the cure of artificial anus. Dupuytren (a) had two cases in which, by this dragging, the adhesions of the intestinal portions were torn through, and effusion of feculent matter into the cavity of the belly caused. Examination after death of persons who have died of other diseases many years after the cure of artificial anus either by nature or art, shows the intestine either | connected by a fibro-cellular band with the place of the artificial anus, or these (a) Lecons Orales.