524 TREATMENT OF COMPOUND FRACTURES CONCLUDED. with which also Abernethy’s splint may be combined if requisite. I know no appa- ratus capable of more perfectly steadying the limb than these,at the same time that they afford the greatest convenience for dressing the wound, as frequently as the Surgeon pleases, without disturbing the position of the fractured bones. Abernethy’s bracket-splint is made of either one or other of the pair of common wooden splints, both of which, if for fractured leg, should always have foot-pieces. The splints having been properly selected to the size of the limb, that one which is to be applied on the wounded side is to have screwed on its outer surface, and vertical to it opposite the wound, a pair of stout iron wire brackets of this shape »■— —■■■■ a of sufficient length, from four to six inches, to reach at either end far —-J L_ beyond the wound of the soft parts, and about three inches high, so that the hand and a poultice, or any other required dressing, may be passed beneath without touching them. The brackets being firmly screwed, that part of the splint between their vertical legs is to be sawn out; and thus, without the strength of the splint being diminished, and leaving plenty of each end, over which a roller can be passed around the limb and the other splint which is still whole, the entire limb is firmly fixed, and the movements of the fractured ends of the bone entirely prevented; whilst at the gap, in the bracket-splint, the wound remains free from pressure and completely exposed, so that it can either be dressed or poulticed with the greatest ease. These splints may remain undisturbed for weeks, till the wound is healed, and common splints, or gum or starched roller can be applied at the Surgeon’s choice. These bracket-splints have also the advantage that if the patient be wearied by the position, it can be changed to another, and again restored to the first position without the least danger or difficulty. Very few indeed are the cases of com- pound fracture in which this apparatus does not answer extremely well. It can easily be made, and whoever can properly apply a pair of common splints can as readily apply these. The swing-box consists of a flat board about two feet and a half in length and about a foot wide, near the four corners of which are fastened as many vertical wooden pillars, about an inch square, or of sufficient thickness to allow a small pulley sheave to be mortised into the upper end of each, over which a stout cord plays, with its outer end free, and the inner end attached to the corners of a gutter-shaped box, of rather smaller size than the bottom of the apparatus, so that it may freely move backwards and for- wards, and upwards and downwards within the pillars. This wooden gutter is open at the hinder end and above ; but the front end has a vertical foot-piece moving backwards and forwards in a chase, so that it can be adjusted to the sole of the foot, whatever be the length of the leg; the bend of the knee being always placed just beyond the hind end, and quite free from the gutter. For the arm, of course, no vertical end is requisite, as it lies flat, and the elbow-joint also is to be quite independent of and behind the bottom of the gutter. The sides of the box, being attached with hinges, can be dropped one or other, or both, as may be requisite for the convenience of the dressing. A thick pad is placed in the bottom, and the limb, being laid on it, is to be kept in place by other pads which fill up the space between it and the sides of the box, so as to give support to the limb. If the wound be at the upper surface, it can be dressed without any movement of the sides of the box, which serve for splints; but if the wound be on either side, the corresponding side of the box must be dropped each time, and replaced and fastened after the dressing. Sometimes the swing-box is used without sides, one or two bracket-splints, according to circumstances, being also used; and this is best when the part requires frequent change of dressing, and of necessity must be handled by the nurse, on which account every precaution should be taken to prevent the fracture being disturbed. Before the limb is put into the box, it is to be drawn up by the cords to such height as may be thought convenient, and either end or side depressed according to cir- cumstances ; after which the ends of the cord are fastened securely to studs on the out- sides of the pillars. During the course of the treatment the elevation or depression of the box may be effected by the cords, without at all interfering with the setting of the fracture itself. The great advantage of the swing-box is that in the patient’s move- ments of the injured limb, however small, the whole limb must move together, so that the ends of the bone do not jostle each other, as in the common mode of treatment. It is by far the best apparatus to be used if the patient be restless and unsteady, and will generally carry a case well through, when no other method will. There is another kind of swing apparatus which I have once or twice employed, though by whom invented I do not know. It consists of a board and pillars as in the former case, but instead of having sheaves and cords, a stout rail connects each two side pillars, and to these the ends of a Scultetus’s bandage are attached by pins on each side; a ship’s cot is thus formed, in which the limb lies, immediately and closely supported without any splints, and swings without any disturbance of the fractured ends of the