KINDS OF 192 VII.—OF INFLAMMATION OF THE NAIL-JOINT, OR WHITLOW. Garengeot, Traitc'des Operations deChirurgie. Paris, 1720, Rvo. Vol. III.—Trans- lated as, A Treatise of Chirurgical Operations, according to the Mechanism of the Parts of the Human Body. London, 1723. 8vo. Le Dran, Hen. Fr., Traitedes Operations de Chirurgie. Paris, 1742. 8vo.—Trans* lated as, The Operations in Surgery of Monsieur Le Dran, by Mr. Gataker. 3rd. Edit. London, 1757. 8vo. Focke, Diss. de Panaritio. Getting., 1786. Melchior, Diss. de Panaritio. Duisb., 1789. Flajani, Osservazioni Pratiche sopra il Panereccio. Roma, 1791. 8vo. Vogt, Diss. de Paronychia. Viteb., 1803. Sue, P., Reflexions et Observations Pratiques sur le Panaris ; in Recueil des Memoires de la Socic'tc Me'dicale d’Emulation de Paris, vol. ii. Wardrop, J., An Account of some Diseases of the Toes and Fingers; with Observations on their Treatment; in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. v. p. 129. Duteil, Dissertation sur la Panaris. Paris, 1815. Craigie, D., Pathological and Practical Observations on Whitlow, in the Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journal, April, 1828, p. 255. 185. Whitlow, or Inflammation of the Nail-Joint of the Fingers and Toes, (Panaritium, Onychia, Paronychia, Lat.; Umlavfl Warm, Germ.; Inflammation des Doigts, Panaris, Fr.,) according to its seat and the con- sequent variations of its severity, usually presents itself in the following four degrees :— [The following mode of deriving the term whitlow, as given by Beckett (a), is interesting:—“ The old English word hawe signifies a swelling of any part. Thus, for instance, a little swelling on the cornea, was anciently called the hawe in the eye ; and the swelling that frequently happens on the finger, on one side the nail, was called whitehawe, and afterwards whitjlaw or whitlow.” (p. 52.) The division of whitlows employed by Chelius was first proposed by Garengeot, and is generally followed; but, excepting the first species, which is well marked, I am rather disposed to agree with Gibson (6), that “ these varieties, however, are in a great measure arbitrary; for it is not always in the power of any surgeon to declare from 11 examination of the part, what particular texture is affected.” (p. 186.)—J. F. S.] First. If the inflammation be entirely superficial at the root or side of the nail, the pain is not great; the swelling does not spread beyond the first joint of the finger, but quickly passes to the outpouring of a purulent j matter which lies immediately beneath the skin, and assumes a bluish colour; the pain only becomes severe when pus has collected beneath the nail, which generally falls off, and a new one soon grows. [This whitlow is Abernethy’s Paronychia ungualis. It begins with slight inflam- mation, accompanied with a throbbing, and by degrees raises up a small white semi- transparent bladder, the whiteness of which depends on the thickness and opacity of the cuticle. It seems, as Le Dran says, to be “only a disease of the skin, which, being slightly excoriated or irritated from some external cause, inflames, and is followed by a collection of purulent serum between the cuticle and true skin.” (p. 413; Fr. edit., p.539.)] If the whitlow be left without puncture, it continues increasing, stripping the cuticle of the true skin, and distending it more and more, till at last, finding a crack or a thin part, it bursts, and the pus is discharged But the continued pressure has ulcerated the cutis and then, as John Hunter observes, “the soft parts underneath push out through the opening in the cuticle, like a fungus, which, when irritated from any accident, give a greater idea of soreness, perhaps, than any other morbid part of the machine ever does, i This is owing to the surrounding belts of cuticle not having given way to the increase of the parts underneath, by which means they are squeezed out of this small opening, like paint out of a bladder.” (p. 470.^) (a) Phil. Trans., 1720, vol. xxxi. (6) Institutes and Practice of Surgery, vol. i.