TliEPANNING. 419 directed according to the difference of the object to be attained. There- fore, in extravasation, that part is to be trepanned where the already de- scribed symptoms are supposed to have their seat; in fractures of the bone, so upon its middle that the pyramid of the trepan stands on one side of the fracture ; in fracture with impression, on the edge of the impression, but so that the crown plays upon the edge of the fracture; in small fractures or balls driven in, the whole may be surrounded with the trepan crown ; in injuries on or into the sagittal and lambdoidal suture it must be applied on both sides. The number of applications of the crown cannot be predeter- mined ; they must be repeated till all the extravasation be perfectly re- moved, pressure removed without violence, and splinters extracted. 437. Trepanning is divided into the following acts :—1, laying bare the bone; 2, perforating it; 3, elevating the piece of bone; and, 4, the various , particulars necessary for the attainment of the object. 438. As the kind of injury to the soft parts varies, and the number of applications of the crown of the trepan cannot at the first be deter- mined, the following general rules only can be given for laying bare the bone. The coverings of the skull are to be preserved, because thereby the scarring is promoted, although many object to flap-cuts because they are in the way, during the operation, and crumple together subsequently in the dressing. Upon the temporal bone a flap of the temporal muscle is to be made with its base above. If it be presumed that one crown will suffice, a simple long cut may be made, of which the edges are to be separated. For several crowns, a -f" or T-shaped cut should be made, the flaps of which must be turned back. The head of the patient should be placed opposite the light on a solid table; the knife so held in making the in- cision that its edge should always be vertical, and the hand supported either on the thumb or little finger. The bleeding must be permitted to continue, because thereby the symptoms are often diminished; it is to be : stanched by rubbing the mouths of the vessels with cold water, or by tying them. The pericranium should be scraped off with the scraper from I the circumference to the centre of the space to be cut through by the application of the trepan, and removed. 439. The penetration of the bone is effected either with the improved arch-trepan, or with the hand-trepan (trephine.) The application of the latter is more simple than of the former, but more wearisome for the ope- rator. ?Thc perforation of the skull is effected more easily and more certainly by B. Heine’s bone-knife (osteotom); inasmuch as with it an opening corresponding to the object of the operation may be made at pleasure into the skull; the dura mater is less liable to u injury, and it is unnecessary to suspend trepanning for the purpose of cleaning the saw- d teeth from the bone-dust; the sawing-through is also accompanied with less shaking. Compare von Graefe and Walther’s Journal, vol. xviii. p. 39. 440. In using the arch-trepan (1) the following method is adopted : after f properly clearing the bared bone, the pyramid or pin of the trepan crown is ) to be put a little over the edge, held firm, the crown attached to the arch, in J the under part of which it is held like a feather, the pyramid fixed on the b middle of the exposed part of the bone, and the trepan brought completely I vertical. The left hand lies flat on the disc of the arch, the right grasps I the handle. The trepan is now to be turned round from right to left 9 rather quickly, and until it has sawn in a sufficient deep groove for the u certain guidance of the crown without the pyramid. The trepan is to be 2 e 2