I 458 TREATMENT OF occurrence took place before Badajos in 1812.” (p. 402.) The following, also, is a very striking example of the same kind, although fatal:— Case.—H. D., aged fifty-two, was admitted under my colleague Green, Oct. 8, 1829. Having fallen from a ladder, a height of twenty-six feet, upon some cast-iron railing, two spikes of which were broken by his fall; one was taken out of his body, but the other could not be found. There were two wounds in the belly, one just above the navel, and the other, out of which the spike had been taken, just above the left hip-bone. He had also a wound in the right arm behind the middle of the m. biceps flexor cubiti. He was much depressed, but after a time rallied a little. During the night he vomited, and next day, reaction having come on, he had pain and tenderness of the belly; but he soon failed again. Brandy was given, and leeches applied to the belly. No stool. On the third day the tenderness continued, and over the left ilio-pubic region there was a considerable inflammation, to relieve which leeches were again applied. In the afternoon he had a copious liquid motion, and in the evening several more very copious and offensive. At half past 11, p.m., he died. On examination, the omentum was found adherent to the wound; the intestines smeared with blood, and on raising them the cavity of the pelvis was seen full of blood ; the broken spike, having passed without injuring any of the viscera, had torn the right common iliac vein, deeply indented the third lumbar vertebra, and lay across the rectum. No marks of peritoneal inflammation.] 511. This uncertainty is, in simple wounds, of no great consequence, and repeated examination with the probe is not needed, as very simple treatment is required. The opening is to be covered with sticking plaster, and a compress and belly bandage applied. In cut and torn wounds, the mode of their union depends on their extent and direction. Lon- gitudinal and transverse wounds, if small, may always be united by the application of sticking plaster, compress, and a belly-band, or Siebold’s bandage. In large transverse wounds, in which the intestines cannot be otherwise retained, stitching of the belly (gastroraphia) is necessary. [“Inquiries into the natural situation and extent of a wound of the abdomen,” says Travers, “ and the circumstances under which it was received, particularly the fulness or otherwise of the stomach, are chiefly important, as they enable the practitioner to study with effect, and follow up with advantage the operations of nature. It is almost needless to insist upon the impropriety of probing or dilating the wound, formerly a prevailing practice, and of applying adhesive straps and rollers round the belly, in place of warm emollient poultices and fomentations.” (p. 74.)] 512. For union of wounds of the abdominal walls the twisted, interrupted and loop stitch are employed. The former effects the closest union, but the latter is suitable in all cases. Stitching up the belly is always to be considered as an important matter; it easily causes a dangerous degree of inflammation, hiccough, vomiting, and so on. The dread of these occurrences and the numerous cases in which healing of the most severe wounds of the belly have taken place without stitching, must restrict its use. It must not, however, be overlooked that in some wounds of the belly, though not large, the union cannot be certainly effected without stitches, as in such cases the sticking plaster and bandages are easily displaced by the enlargement of the belly, which usually takes place by pressure, vomiting, and so on, and protrusion or squeezing of the bowel into the wound ensues. 513. The employment of the stitch differs according as the threads pe- netrate the peritoneum, or only external to it, through the muscles and skin. In the latter case, as many sufficiently long and somewhat flattened threads are to be taken as stitches are required, furnished at one end with a pret ty large curved and sharp-cutting needle. The edge of the wound is to be held between the fore finger of the left hand, introduced into the belly, and the thumb placed outside of it, and drawn somewhat towards the operator;