127 EFFECTS OF SEVERE COLD. which is yet susceptible of reanimation, but which, if left to itself, must necessarily run into gangrene or death. Those parts are most commonly affected by the dangerous effects of cold which are most distant from the heart, and in which the evolution of warmth, under natural circumstances, is slight, as the hands, ears and nose ; especially if the circulation through them"be hindered by accidental pressure. Hunter (a) observes that, in frost-bite, “ the effect of the cold is that of lessening the living principle. The powers of action remain as perfect as ever, but weakened; and heat is the only thing wanting to put these powers into action; yet that heat must at first be gradually applied and proportioned to the quantity of the living principle, which increasing, the degree of heat may likewise be increased. If this method is not observed, and too great a degree of heat is at first applied, the person or part loses entirely the living principle, and mortification ensues.” (p. 137.) Astley Cooper (b) says:—“ In this climate, destruction of the life of the part does not, in general, immediately succeed ” the application of a great degree of cold for a consi- derable time to a part; but “ the part will become numbed, that is, its nervous power will be diminished; and, when it is thus enfeebled, it will be unable to bear a very slight degree of inflammation, and the destruction of its life follows. * * * It generally happens that inflammation succeeds the application of cold after an interval of two or three days.” (pp. 215-16.) Larrey (c) does not consider, in frost-bite, “ the cold as the determining * * * but merely the predisposing cause” of mortification; and observes, in support of this opinion, that, at the time of the battle of Eylau, the French soldiers “ did not experience any painful sensation during the severe cold (varying from 10° to 15° below zero of Reau- mur’s thermometer) to which they had been exposed on the night-watches of the 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, and 9tb of February, 1813 ; and that it was not till the night of the 10th, when the temperature had risen from 18° to 20°, (a great quantity of sleet having fallen,” as he mentions previously, “ on the same morning, and been the forerunner of the thaw which took place in the course of that day, and continued in the same degree for several days,) that they felt the first effects of the coldand “ applied for succour, complaining of acute pain in the feet, and of numbness, heaviness, and prickings in the extremities. The parts were scarcely swollen, and of an obscure-red colour. In some cases, a slight redness was perceptible about the roots of the toes, and on the back of the foot; in others, the toes were destitute of motion, sensibility, and warmth, being already black, and, as it were, dried.” (pp. 60-2.) Larrey’s objection to the cold being the determinate cause of the mortification, is not borne out by this account; for it is well known that the cold produced during a thaw is much more severe from the accompanying evaporation, than whilst freezing continues. It may be also observed, that a greater degree of dry cold than of wet cold can be borne without inconvenience or danger, as our daily experience proves in dry frosty and cold wet weather.—J. F. S. The two following cases, for which I am indebted to my friends and colleagues Green and Solly, under whose care they were, present good examples, the first, of the usual result of frost-bite in this country, and the second, of mortification from continued application of cold moisture in an excitable constitution, arising from the use of beer and spirit:— Case 1.—.1. W., aged thirty-nine years, was admitted into St. Thomas’s Hospital. Dec. 15,1829. He has followed various occupations, but has, in general, lived poorly ; and has now mortification of both feet, of which he gives the following account:— About a month since, being very destitute, he lay for four successive nights in the open air, at which time the weather was very cold. On the morning following the fourth mght, he found himself, on rising, unable to stand from loss of sensation in his feet, and unconsciousness of touching the ground. He was removed by the police to Cold Bath Fields’ Prison, where he states that, for some time, he was fed on gruel and on soup on alternate days. Soon after his arrival at the prison, the numbness of his feet was suc- ceeded by a warm pricking stinging heat, and this soon followed by redness, swelling, and throbbing of the parts. He does not remember what treatment he was subjected to, but these symptoms, accompanied with great pain, continued for eight days ; after which, in the course of a single night, both feet mortified, assuming an ashy-black colour, and here and there having small vesications. Simultaneously with this change, the pain remitted, and, in a day or two after, the line of separation between the dead and living parts appeared. He continued in the prison infirmary, the separation advancing, and his health varying but little, until his admission here. (a) As just quoted. (6) Lectures on Surgery, vol. i. (c) As quoted above.