273 KNEE-DISEASES. « When the cartilages of the knee are ulcerated,” says Brodie, “ there is pain in the affected joint; at first slight, and only occasional, and. in the early stages of the disease, it is completely relieved by remaining in a state of rest for a few days, hut it returns as soon as the patient resumes the exercise of the limb, By degrees the pain becomes constant, and very severe, particularly at night, when it disturbs the patient by con- tinually rousing him from sleep. The pain is referred principally to the inside of the head of the tibia, but sometimes a slighter degree of pain extends down the whole of that bone. The pain is aggravated by motion, so that the patient keeps the limb con- stantly in one position, and generally half bent; and he never attempts to support the weight of the body on the foot of this side.” It is distinguished from inflammation of the synovial “ membrane in this, that the pain in the former is slight in the beginning and gradually becomes very intense, which is the very reverse of what happens in the latter.” From most other diseases of this joint it differs, in that “the pain in the first instance is unattended by any evident swelling, which comes on never in less than four or five weeks, and often not until several months have elapsed from the commencement of the disease.” (pp. 167, 68.) The swelling Bkodie describes to “arise from a slight degree of inflammation having taken place in the cellular membrane external to the joint, in consequence of the disease within it. The swelling is usually trifling, appear- ing greater than it really is, in consequence of the wasting of the muscles of the limb. It has the form of the articulating ends of the bones, that is, the natural form of the joint. No fluctuation is perceptible, as where the synovial membrane is inflamed, nor is there the peculiar elasticity which exists where the synovial membrane has under- gone a morbid alteration of structure.” (p. 170.) When ulceration of the cartilages has taken place, striking the heel so as to jar the knee, or rubbing the ends of the bones together, though but slightly, causes severe pain, and if there be much destruction of cartilage, a grating sensation is conveyed along the leg to the surgeon’s hand. “ The progress of the ulceration of the cartilages,” Bkodie observes, “ varies, with respect to time, in different cases; but it is generally tedious. In one case, where violent pain had existed in the knee, with little or no swelling, for two years and a-half previous to am- putation, I had,” says he, “ an opportunity of examining the diseased joint, and found the cartilages destroyed for only a small extent; a drachm and a-half of pus in the arti- cular cavity, and no morbid appearance of the soft parts, with the exception of a very slight inflammation which had been induced in the synovial membrane, and the effusion of a minute quantity of coagulable lymph into the cellular texture on its external sur- face.” (pp. 174, 75.) Since the observations referring to ulceration of cartilage, from pressure of adventi- tious membrane, have passed through the press, I have had the opportunity of examining with the microscope, both the adventitious membrane and cartilage, in the case of a boy aged ten years, whose knee having been affected with disease for four years, was removed by the wish of his friends on the 17th of this month, (May, 1S45.) In this case I saw distinctly the vascular loops in the adventitious membrane, already quoted (p. 232) from Goodsir’s paper; and also the peculiar degeneration in the cartilage which my friend Kainey has described as follows:— “ A vertical section through the joint on one side of the patella exposed adventitious membraneous structures, extending from'the synovial membrane towards the interior of the joint, and lying against the articular cartilage, which was excavated in such a manner as to have the exact form of the membrane in contact with it. These structures were of different forms and degrees of thickness in different parts of the joint, and always continuous with the synovial membrane. “ In some parts of the joint, the articular cartilage of the femur, and that of the op- posite part of the tibia, were completely destroyed, and the denuded osseous surfaces of these bones, connected by a newly formed fibrous structure, which was sufficiently long to allow of considerable motion. The free surface of the articular cartilage was, in some parts, covered by a thin layer of membrane, which admitted easily of being de- tached, in other parts excavated, as before observed; the opposite surface was either completely detached, or only loosely connected with the bone. Some abscesses com- municated with the joint. The microscopic examination of the membranous productions showed that they were vascular, the vessels forming loops towards the cartilage, which I have observed in er cases that have been better injected. But what seems most interesting is, that nrc VS°rp-ti0n °P *'le cart'lage is preceded by its fatty degeneracy, diminishing in de- ° lts fr°e surface to the one connected with the bone. . , degeneracy is first perceptible by the division of the nuclei of the cartilage cells sei eral minute spherical particles of oil. VOL. I. These particles increase as the nuclei T