93 FISTULOUS PASSAGES.—HARDENING. 66. These fistulous passages may be generally avoided by the treat- ment already mentioned. If the fistulous passage be still recent, the free escape of the pus may be effected by a suitable enlarging of the opening, by the entire division of the fistulous passage, if it be superficial; or, if the bottom of the passage be near the skin, by means of a counter opening; for the latter purpose a probe is introduced, with which the bottom of the passage and the skin above it are raised, and then the probe is to be cut I upon. The further treatment is to be according to the preceding rules. In still longer continued fistulous passages, especially when their walls have become callous, we endeavour to excite a proper degree of inflam- mation of the walls of the passage, usually by the introduction of a seton, i or of a bundle composed of many threads, which is tied together externally upon the fistulous passage, and daily drawn tighter (Langenbeok) (a), or by the injection of irritating fluids (II. Dewar) (l>) ; for instance, a so- lution of nitrate of silver, of bichloride, or nitrate of quicksilver, or by the introduction of a bougie, the point of which lias been smeared with powdered nitrate of silver (Cramer) (c), (von Walther) (cl), and so on, and then, by a regulated pressure throughout its whole extent, to produce union of its walls. Where a satisfactory dilatation of the fistulous passage is possible, the cure may be effected without these painful remedies by the careful avoidance of any bandage which might interfere with the escape of the pus, and by close attention to the before-mentioned rules. Accoi’ding to Langenbeck, the introduction of a ligature is, in many cases, preferable to incision, which oftentimes is impracticable without injuring large vessels, and so on. By the ligature inflammation is produced, the surface of the abscess becomes red and i painful, the secretion of ichorous fluid is diminished, good consistent pus and near the ligature shooting healthy granulations are produced, and the skin becomes more firm and solid. As these symptoms come on, the ligature is to be gradually drawn tighter. In common cases, the ligature requires to be used ®nly from four to eight days, to produce its effects. If it should be necessary to cut through the wall of the fistulous passage with the ligature, the remaining cavity must be filled with charpie. 67. During suppuration the practitioner must pay especial attention to the condition of the digestive organs ; for impurities in the intestinal canal are frequently the cause of unhealthy pus; neither must pure healthy air be forgotten. If the suppuration be continued on account of any dyscracy, the proper means for its counteraction must be employed. On the treatment of abscess compare von Kern, Annalen der chirurgischen Klinik zu Wien, vol. i. 1807, vol. ii. 1809. von Walther, fiber die topische Behandlung und fiber den Verband der eiternden Wunden, der Ahscesse, Geschwfire und Fisteln, in Journal ffir Chirurgie und • I Augenheilkuude, vol. ix. part ii. 68. The treatment of the Hardening into which inflammation has sub- sided has a double object, viz. its dispersion or its removed with the knife. The resolution of the hardening is only possible when the lymph poured into the cellular tissue has not yet consolidated the walls of the part with each other, and its natural structure is not yet entirely lost; consequently, when the induration is still recent and not very hard. If there be also decided dyscracy, the curative treatment must be first directed to it. (a) Von der Behandlung der Fistelgiinge, der (c) lleitrage zur Heilung der Fisteln und Scnusscanale und grosser Eiter absondernden Geschwfire; in Heidelbergerclinischen Annalen, Hohlen ; in Neue Bibliothek fiir die Chirurgie und vol. x. part i. p. 71. Ophthalmologic, vol. i. p. 2, par. 313. (d) Uber Ilohlgeschwlire und Fisteln ; in Jofcr- I 00 On the Treatment of Sinuous Ulcers ; in nal von Uraefe und Walther, vol. v. p. 1. Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. vii. p. 487.