151 TREATMENT OF BREAST-ABSCESS. mechanical injury and so on. Women who do not suckle, or who wean their children early, are specially subject to inflammation of the breast. In order to prevent it, they must use a strict diet, encourage perspiration, take purgatives; apply cotton fumigated with sugar to the breasts, rub the nipples often with spittle, and support the breasts. [Too many women, to their great shame, refuse suckling their children, on account of the restraint which this, one of their most important duties, puts upon them ; some, un- fortunately, early loose the progeny they would sacrifice themselves to bring up; and others, either from ill-health or from soreness of the nipples, are incapable of giving suck. In all these cases the secretion of milk must be checked, and the milk already secreted induced to absorb. Spare diet and purging, as recommended by Chelius, will usually effect the first object. As to the second, an evaporating lotion of spirit of -wine or Cologne water, kept constantly on the breasts, which are to be carefully supported, and, therefore, the recumbent position and undress are the best for the purpose. The ordinary practice of monthly nurses is continued and gentle friction of the breasts with oil and brandy performed three or four times a-day.—J. F. S.] 147. The same remedies must also be employed at the commencement of inflammation. And not until it becomes more active, and the swelling tense and hard, must warm softening poultices and soothing steam be applied to the breast, and emollient ointment rubbed in. If the inflam- mation disperse, the tension and swelling gradually subside ; isolated hardenings slowly disappear under the use of softening poultices and mercurial salve. If the inflammation take place whilst the child is still suckling, it may be freely put to the breast, so long as the swelling and pain are not great. If with a free flow of milk the child cannot draw off sufficient, it must be withdrawn by a milk-glass in the intervals. If the inflammation become very severe, all attempts to remove the milk from the breast are injurious. 148. If the inflammation pass into suppuration, the softening poultices must be continued, cicuta or mercurial plaster applied, and the opening of the abscess left to nature. In general many openings take place at dif- ferent parts, and they are to be treated in the usual way till they close. If during suppuration fistulous openings are formed and the breast remain very hard, (which is commonly the case when the abscess is opened artificially, or lumps of charpie are introduced into the openings,) the before-mentioned mode of treatment can alone effect the resolution of the hardening and the closure of the openings. After much experience, I cannot but reject the opening of abscesses of the breast recommended by many. There are, however, exceptions; when the abscess is very deep, when it has proceeded slowly, when the local pain is very great and the fever high, and profuse perspiration and continued restlessness are present. After the arti- ficial opening, poultices must be always applied as above mentioned. In lengthy fistulous passages in the breast gland, Langenbeck recommends the introduction of ligatures. I have, in such cases, even when the fistulous passages have been accompanied with much surrounding hardness, always attained my purpose with the treatment above 1 stated. If milk escape from these passages, its secretion must be lessened by the use of purgative remedies, together with a sparing diet; or, in weakly constitutions, by the use of bark and strengthening food. Nothing is more objectionable than the introduc- tion of tents into fistulous passages of the breast gland, or, as has been very recently advised, the putting in little tubes to keep up the flow of pus. The irritation is always thereby much increased and hardening of the whole neighbourhood originated. [Chelius’s recommendation of leaving “the opening of the abscess to nature” must on no account be followed, as its certain result is, according to his own observation, the occurrence of “ many openings at different parts” of the breast, and the necessary pro- duction of very unsightly scars, which most grievously annoy the patient and her friends, and deservedly discredit the reputation of the medical attendant. The abscess is always to be punctured freely, so soon as fluctuation can be distinctly felt, and whilst the walls of