ERYSIPELAS. 108 local treatment, and which I almost invariably adopt, is, when the skin is tense, shining, and deep red, to make several incisions, according to the extent of the disease, from an inch and a half to three inches in length, which I think preferable to very long cuts just through the skin into the cellular tissue, which should be so disposed that every four should have interposed between them a sort of diamond-like space, and thus, when several cuts are made, the skin has a net-like appearance, and yields in every possible direction. The object is not to obtain blood, which, indeed, I generally endeavour to avoid by bathing for a few minutes with cold water, if there be any disposition to bleeding, but to allow the cells of the cellular tissue to empty themselves of the fluid with which they are loaded, the effect of which is, that the skin, being further relieved of tension, is less likely to slough, and the tissue itself being no longer squeezed by the effused serum, the blood passes freely through its capillary vessels, and its life is preserved, instead of it becoming strangulated. If the tension be not sufficiently relieved, or if the disease be continued up the limb, it will be necessary to make additional cuts from day to day, which is the only chance we have, that I am aware of, to prevent the death of the cellular tissue, and it each time relieves the patient’s sufferings most remarkably. In one instance of a man who had inflammation of the cellular tissue of the back of the hand, resulting from a strain, and which travelled up to the chest, I made about thirty cuts, mostly three inches in length each; during the course of the week, nearly the whole cellular tissue of the arm sloughed; but he completely recovered, his arm, how- ever, closely resembling a piece of scored pork. In these cases brandy, wine, porter, general good feeding, and humouring the appetite, are absolutely necessary, and infinitely preferable to medicine, which should be restricted to an opiate, or an occasional dose of castor oil, as needed.—J. F. S.] 91. In the treatment of the various kinds of erysipelas, we have given the treatment proper for each, and which has been proved by experience. The opinions, however, of the most distinguished physicians differ from each other in many important points on this subject. Thus the incisions should only be made in pseudo-erysipelas, and of the suitable length and depth, according to Rust, Dupuytren and Lawrence ; while, according to Hutchison (a), they should be made early and in considerable numbers; i but Dobson (b) employs numerous punctures with a lancet in all kinds of erysipelas and on all parts of the body. In pseudo-erysipelas DuruY- { tren (c) professes, in some cases, to have effected a satisfactory resolution by blistering the diseased part: he, however, considers this remedy as doubtful, as in other cases he noticed deterioration and sloughs occur- i ring after its use. But, in all cases of common erysipelas, if the tongue be moist and little red, the skin moderately hot, and slight general reaction connected with the local inflammation, he considers the suppuration pro- duced by one or more blisters upon the inflamed part as the best mode of effecting resolution. Some (d) would arrest the extension by the application of a blister at the margin of the erysipelas ; but others (e) entirely reject 1 their use. Bretonneau (f) and Velpeau (g) have had the happiest results from moderate compression of a limb attacked with inflammation, even when the transition to suppuration seemed unavoidable and all other t remedies had failed. Lawrence and Duncan have, on the contrary, observed bad effects resulting from this practice (/*). [Another mode of attempting to check the spread of erysipelas, is that of enclosing it, | if small, within a space bounded by a belt, a quarter or half an inch wide, made on the skin with nitrate of silver; or, if a limb be affected, by gartering it in the same way (<i) Case of Erysipelas, with Remarks; in Med.- Chir. Trans., vol. xiv. p. 213. (fe) On Treatment of Erysipelas by Punctures; in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xiv. p. 206. (r) Dupuytren, as above, p. 322. Olivet, These, de 1’Ervsipele Phlegmoneux, p. 30. (d) Koche et Sanson, Nouveaux Elemens de Patliologie Medico-Chirurgicale, vol. i. p. 352. Lawrence, as above, p. 63. (e) R ayer, Traite des Maladies de la l’eau, p. 125. I (/) Sur l’Utilitede la Compression dans les In- j flammations Idiopathiques de la Peau. Par., 1315. I (0) Memoire sur l’emploi du Bandage Compres- 1 sif dansleTraitement de l’Erysipele Phlegmoneux, 1 de la Brillure et des plusieurs autres inflamma- < tions aigues des membres ; in Archives Generates de Medecine, .Tuin, 1826, p. 192. (//) Lawrence, as above.