ANALYTICAL INDEX. XCV111 Aquapendente, Guy de Cliauliac, Le Dran, Freitag, Send, Schmucker, Theden, Langenbeck, Kern, Petit, Lieutaud. Le- blanc, Mauchart, Richter, Diouis, Mery, Arnaud, Schreger, von Graefe, and von Walther, ii. 24; the inhealing a plug of skin, ii. 24; Dzondi, Jameson, and Gerdy’s plans, ii. 24 ; Gerdy’s mode of operating, ii. 24; modified by Signoroni and Wiitzer, ii. 25 ; Bransby Cooper’s case, in which he performed Gerdy’s ope- ration, ii. 25 ; Bonnet, Mayor, and Bel- mas’ operations for the radical cure of hernia, ii. 26 ; circumstances guiding the decision as to the performance of an ope- ration for the radical cure of hernia, ii. 27 ; the several operations for the radical cure more or less dangerous, ii. 28; opi- nions differ as to the value of these operations, ii. 28; Schreger’s indications when the operation is admissible, ii. 28; Astley Cooper’s case, in which he in- effectually removed the entire hernial sac, ii. 29; Astley Cooper’s objections to the ligature of the sac, ii. 29 ; Petit’s case of approaching peritonitis caused by ligature of the sac, ii. 29; Lawrence’s objections to operations for the radical cure of her- nia, ii. 29 ; treatment of strangulated rup- ture, ii. 30; employment of tobacco enemata, ii. 30; South’s objections to the use of tobacco enemata, ii. 30 ; treatment of chronic strangulation, ii. 31; employ- ment of the taxis, ii. 31 ; symptoms fol- lowing the reduction, ii. 32; symptoms following failure of the taxis, ii. 32; Ribes and Hey on the application of the taxis, ii. 32; O’Beirne on the introduc- tion of a thick elastic tube through the rectum into the sigmoid flexure of the colon, ii. 32 ; Ribieri and Guerin on local anodyne applications, ii. 32; Nember, Rennerth, and Preiss on the exhibition of purgatives, &c., ii. 32 ; Church on the use of tartar emetic, ii. 32 ; Bell on the muriate of morphia, ii. 32 ; South’s case of mortified intestine from strangulation, ii. 32 ; the proper time for operating, ii. 34; South on the proper time at which the operation for strangulated hernia should be performed, ii. 34; steps of the operation, ii. 35; preliminary measures, ii. 35 ; description of the operation, ii. 35 ; South’s objection to lifting up a fold of the skin, and incising it, ii. 35 ; South on the length of the first incision in scrotal and femoral ruptures, ii. 35 ; exposure of the sac, ii. 36; South on the division of the coverings, and opening the hernial sac, ii. 36 ; South on several cases of in- ternal strangulation by bands from the mesentery or diverticula of the ileum, ii. 37 ; dilatation of the seat of strangulation by cutting, ii. 37 ; instruments for divid- ing the strangulating part, ii. 37 ; South on the division of the stricture, ii. 37 ; dilatation without cutting, ii. 38 ; recom- mended by Thevenin, Leblanc, Lecat, Arnaud, Richter, and Scarpa, ii. 38; South’s objections to dilatation without cutting, ii. 38 ; return of the intestines after the division of the stricture, ii. 38 ; South on the return of the intestines after the division of the stricture, ii. 38 ; South on the effusion of fluid after the intestines have been returned, ii. 39 ; causes which impede the reduction of the intestine, ii. 39 ; treatment of adhesions, ii. 39 ; treat- ment of intestine distended with ffeces or air, ii. 39; Lowe, Loeffler, Richerand, Jonas, and von Graefe on puncturing the distended intestine, ii. 39 ; South ou the treatment of adhesion between the omen- tum or intestine and the sac, ii. 39; South’s objections to puncturing or in- cising the intestine, unless distended with solid matter, ii. 40 ; treatment of degene- rated omentum, ii. 40; its removal by ligature or incision, ii. 40; South and Callaway’s cases, ii. 40; Key’s advice to unfold the omentum before cutting it off, j ii. 41 ; South’s mode of treating the pro- j truded omentum, ii. 41 ; sloughing of the !; omentum, ii. 41 ; Astley Cooper’s case, j ii. 41 ; Hewett ou the formation by the (; omentum of a sac enclosing the intestine, j ii. 41 ; South on secondary haemorrhage |i from the omentum, ii. 42 ; Key on abscess -1 in the sac, occasionally reproducing the li symptoms of strangulation, ii. 42; the ij dark violet, or even dusky colour of the ij intestine should not prevent its reduc- I tion, ii. 42; South on this colour, as i caused by venous congestion, ii. 42 ; gan- grene of the intestine, and its treatment, ii. 42; treatment of wounded and nar- j rowed intestine, ii. 42 ; treatment of old < irreducible ruptures when strangulated, I ii. 42; the operation of dilating the ab- | dominal ring, the hernial sac not being 1 opened, to be rejected in the majority of cases, ii. 43; cases in which it may be adopted, ii. 43; this proceeding adopted by Franco, Pare, Petit, Garengeot, Monro, 1 A. Cooper, Key, and Preiss, ii. 43 ; ad- 1 vantages of this operation, ii. 43 ; ! Guerin’s subcutaneous incision of the ab- 1 dominal ring, ii. 43; Astley Cooper’s reasons for recommending the operation j of dividing the stricture without opening i the sac in large and old ruptures, ii. 43 ; j mode of operating, ii. 43; Lawrence’s modification of this operation, ii. 44; Key’s views with regard to this opera- tion, ii. 44 ; Lawrence ascribes the fatal J results after the operation, not to the ex- posure of the parts to the air and light, , but to the effects of protracted constric- 1