OF ERYSIPELAS. 107 i •: ! !i :■) of laudanum is best. If the erysipelas run into ulceration or gangrene, attention must be paid to giving free escape to the ichor ; the general and local treatment must be regulated, as before mentioned, according to the character of the fever, and the rules given in reference to abscess and gangrene, and clearance of the bowels, must be especially remembered. [ The local treatment of erysipelas is very simple; warm or cold washes, as may be most agreeable to the patient’s feelings, consisting of water with a little spirits of wine, are best, and I think preferable to either warm or cold lead wash, which renders the cuticle harsh and unyielding. If there be much tension of the skin, the practice recommmended by Dobson of making a dozen or twenty punctures with the point of a lancet is very beneficial, and agreeably relieves the hide-bound sensation which the patient feels.—J. F. S.] 89. In idiopathic erysipelas the treatment must be guided according to the degree of the inflammation. General antiphlogistic treatment is rarely necessary in this case ; usually the application of leeches and of cold water or lead wash are sufficient for resolution. [Leeches should never, under any circumstances, be applied locally, as the irritation resulting from their use itself frequently excites erysipelas or rather erythema. If absolutely requisite, puncture with the lancet is to be employed.—J. F. S.] 90. In erythema consensuale the treatment varies according to its original cause. If it depend on the tension of aponeurotic expansions, incisions, warm bathing, friction with mercurial ointment, warm fomentations and poultices must be applied. If the erysipelas appears only as a reflection of deeper disease of the periosteum, of the tendons, or of cellular tissue, so long as the disease continues purely inflammatory, abstraction of blood, leeching, applications of cold lead wash and free mercurial friction, and, in metastasis especially, mercurial laxatives and warm aromatic fomentations, must be used ; in gastric symptoms, with loaded tongue, heartburn and the like, a vomit should be first given, by which principally the course of the disease is rendered less severe. But, if gangrene or ulceration have oc- curred in the deeper parts, and there appear a spot particularly discoloured or fluctuating, it must be opened and the wound dilated with the blunt- ended bistoury upon the finger in every direction where the destruction of the cellular tissue has occurred, in order to discharge the pent-up ichor and the often large pieces of completely dead cellular tissue. The further treatment consists in supporting nature to throw off the destroyed parts, to sustain the sinking powers, and to produce good suppuration. According to Rust, there may be applied locally bark, camphor, myrrh, charcoal, camo- mile flowers, turpentine oil, camphorated spirit, pyroligneous acid, spirituous aromatic fomentations, and so on; internally, powerful tonic remedies are to be used in connexion with mineral acids, and, if thereby a good sup- puration is produced, the healing may be aided by the application of a moderately compressing bandage. I have, however, noticed, that under this stimulating local treatment, the destruction and unhealthy suppuration as well as the general irritation have increased, and that by the use of warm tomentations and a suitable general treatment improvement has been much more quickly produced ; I, therefore, only use warm applications locally. In great hardening of the skin and of the underlying cellular tissue, I have always effected a perfect resolution by mercurial infliction and malt baths. of [Neither leeches, cold washes, nor mercurial friction are, according to my experience, any material advantage, and therefore hurtful, as causing waste of time. The best