TREATMENT OF PENETRATING WOUNDS. 450 equally so are those of extravasation ; they may be so complicated with the constitution of the patient, with organic disease of the chest, with nervous causes, with supervening inflammation, and so on, as to render the most acute practitioner doubtful. Such stabs of the chest only are, therefore, to be considered simple wounds, in which the most careful examination does not prove penetration. In all vertical and oblique wounds, however, in which the examination gives no certain grounds, or when the wound has certainly penetrated; further, in those wounds where local examination has not proved penetration, but when, either immediately or some hours after the injury, only some symptoms of extravasation or of internal injury begin to appear, the wound is to be enlarged not only to its very bottom but, if it penetrate, also through the pleura. A correct knowledge of the direction of the wound is thereby obtained, air and blood can freely escape, all infil- tration is prevented, all the symptoms may be attacked as they arise, and if there be no internal injury nor extravasation, the wound may be closed. But wounds in the neigh- bourhood of the spine or sternum must be treated as simple wounds, and, if symptoms of extravasation come on, an opening into the chest must at once be made in the usual place.” To this mode of treatment, it may be objected that the closure of the wound is, in many cases, the only mode of stanching bleeding from the lungs; that in many cases of penetrating wounds of the chest, even with injury of the lungs, a cure without extra- vasation follows, or the effused blood is absorbed, of which experience refers to many cases; that consecutive extravasation certainly occurs earlier when the wound is en- larged, because the inflammation of the lungs and pleura is thereby rendered more severe. It is, therefore, generally more advisable to close the wound, and only to have recourse to its enlargement if it be not too high on the chest, pretty nearly midway be- tween the spine and the breast-bone, and the medical attendant must be guided by the symptoms of extravasation as to opening the cavity of the chest. The enlargement of the wound is to be made either upon the finger or on the director, and always in such direction that the lower edge of the rib be avoided, and the cut have a conical form towards the pleura. The further treatment is the same as that already stated in refer- ence to opening the cavity of the chest. These reasons are also opposed to Reybard’s (a) recommendation of introducing into the chest a canid a with a bladder, around which the wound is to be closed with sticking plaster; and in this way both the air collected in the cavity of the chest and the extra- vasated blood are to be discharged. [Astley Cooper says that danger in three ways results from wounds of the lung; first, from haemorrhage; secondly, from inflammation of the lung, and effusion into the cavity of the pleura; and thirdly, from emphysema. As to their treatment he states that In haemorrhage “ the patient must be freely bled to prevent the continuance of the haemorrhage from the wounded lung, and the opening must not be closed in the parietes, until all the bleeding from the lungs have ceased, otherwise the blood will remain in the cavity of the chest, and produce irritation and inflammation.” (p 230, 31.) Hennen observes on the same point:—“ In whatever part of the thorax a ball, bayonet or sabre strikes, our first object is to diminish the quantity of circulating blood, so vast a proportion of which passes through the contents of the cavity. On this the very ex- istence of our patient depends, and we cannot - from reasoning a priori fix any bounds to the quantity to be taken, or determine the intervals at which it is to flow: our prac- tice in both respects must be governed by the effects. * * * The mode to be instantly, adopted in these cases is as follows:—Without searching after balls or fragments of bone, or attempting to ascertain the precise track of the bayonet or pike, or expatiating on the particular vessels or their branches, which may be injured, let the man lie quietly along, and lose from thirty to forty ounces of blood from his arm by a large orifice. This done we should remove the clothes or handkerchief, which may have been put hurriedly over the wound to stanch the blood. If he has fainted during the bleeding, or if we find him in that state when we arrive, instead of administering any cordials to him, we should put our finger into the wound, and extract everything within reach, whether cloth, ball, iron, splinters of bone, or clots of blood. If the orifice be not sufficiently large, we must not be afraid of making it moderately larger by the cautious use of a probe-pointed bistoury, or the sharp one with a small morsel of wax on the end of it. By this means we make way for the removal of extraneous bodies, and may possibly discover the bleeding orifice of one of the intercostal arteries, which sometimes are cut, but not at all so often as speculative writers would lead us to believe.” If it be a gun-shot a mild light dressing is sufficient; “ but if incised the lips should be closed (a) Above cited.