706 OCCASIONAL CONSEQUENCES OF TOOTH-DRAWING. ' against its inside, and then lifts the tooth inwards and upwards in the lower, and the contrary in the upper jaw. 89o. The stumps and roots of teeth may be removed by one or other of these means. If they be loose, they are especially fitted for the forceps, or punch ; those which are firmly fixed for the key, or if there be still neigh- bouring teeth left, for the pelican. Only when by these methods the stump cannot be removed, must the lever be used. The head of the patient is to be supported, the point of the lever fixed sufficiently deep, between the edge of the alveolar process and the root of the tooth, a lever-like motion is to be made to either side, where there is least opposition, and the root lifted out. In very firmly fixed roots, two levers may be applied in the same way, on the two sides. 896. The awkward circumstances which may occur from drawing teeth are, breaking off the crown of the tooth, breaking the alveolar pro- cesses, bruising, tearing, or complete stripping off the gums, loosening the neighbouring sound teeth, partial dislocation of the teeth, fracture of the jaw, slipping of the claw from the diseased to a sound tooth and its extraction, severe bleeding, inflammation and suppuration of the gums, and caries of the alveolar processes. If the crown of the tooth break off, the removal of its stump is to be attempted as already mentioned. In splintering the alveolar process, the loose pieces must be removed, and those which are fixed pressed into place. Bruising of the gums must be treated with slightly astringent gargles. If part of the gum remain only slightly connected, it must be cut off with scissors. Teeth which have become loose must be fastened to those adjoin- ing with threads, and hard food should be avoided. If a tooth be partially dislocated, the pain is often thereby completely got rid of, and it remains firm in the socket, although caries go on ; but the dislocated tooth may operate in its socket as a foreign body and cause pain, the gum and the lining of the socket may become affected, and thereby the removal of the tooth be rendered necessary. Fracture of the lower jaw requires its proper treatment. A sound tooth which has been pulled out may be put in again, and fixed by threads to its neighbours. A slight bleeding occurs after the drawing of every tootli; this is to be permitted for a little while, because thereby is the inflammation of the gum best prevented ; washing of the mouth with water and vinegar, and compression of the tooth-socket are usually sufficient to stop it. Frequently the bleeding is very severe, because perhaps the artery going to the tooth is torn, where it is in the bone and cannot retract, or on account of scor- butic diathesis. In this case firm compression must be employed, the socket filled with lint soaked in a solution of alum, in Theden’s arque- busade, and the like, or with oak agaric strewed with styptic powder, or with a ball of wax; small compresses are to be put upon these, and the patient made to bite the jaws firmly together. In doubtful cases, the application of the actual cautery has been recommended. In the scorbutic diathesis the simultaneous internal use of acids is not to be neglected (1). The inllammatory swelling of the gums requires a soothing treatment, bathing with warm milk, figs boiled in milk, and so on. In general it runs on readily to suppuration, and if the abscess do not soon burst of itself, it must be opened with a lancet. The aperture usually closes under the continued use of soothing gargles. Parulis requires the same treatment if caused by a decayed tooth, and if that be the reason of the aperture