740 URETHRAL FISTULA; in order to prevent the gangrenous destruction caused by the escape of the urine. Stones frequently lie in the sac of a blind fistula, in which case cutting into it and the the removal of the stone is necessary, and afterwards the treatment is to be as in com- plete fistula. Compare also what is hereafter said about urinary stones exterior to the urinary passages. 951. Complete urinary fistulas communicating with the kidneys, or ureters, require no assistance, unless kept up by the pressure of a foreign body or by prevention of the flow of urine from the bladder, in which case perhaps the restoration of the natural area of the urethra, or the removal of the foreign body, may contribute to the cure. 952. Complete urinary fistula is situated either between the scrotum and the glans penis, or between it and the anus in the perinceum. The difference of the seat of the fistula depends on its course, and requires different treatment. 953. In the first case, (Fistula urinaria penis,) the fistulous opening is most commonly on the under side of the penis, varying in size, so that either all the urine and semen, or only part of it, escapes thereby. It presents different conditions, according to its cause and duration ; it is often connected with surrounding hardness and copious suppuration, especially if it arise from stricture; often it forms an extremely minute and obliquely running aperture; often the skin and the neighbouring mucous membrane of the urethra, skin over, and do not suppurate ; often is a large portion of the lower wall of the urethra destroyed, and the opening varying in size, surrounded with a hard scar, as in destroying ulcers or wounds with loss of substance. In narrow and obliquely running fistulas, the introduction of a probe, through the fistula, and of a catheter through the urethra, shows the seat of the internal opening. 954. If the fistula be accompanied with narrowing of the urethra, this must be first got rid of by bougies, and then by the continual wearing an elastic catheter, which should be properly fastened, the urine must be conveyed from the fistula. At the same time, anjr disease, standing in causal relation to the fistula must be attended to, and care taken for the cleanliness and diminution of the irritated condition of the parts surround- ing the fistula, by warm hip-baths, leeches, poultices, and so on ; and the patient's constitutional powers must be improved by attention to diet and tonic remedies. The cure usually takes place without further assistance, if the fistulous orifice be not too large, and its walls not too much changed. 955. If, when the urethra have attained its proper size, the cure of the fistula do not take place, or if there be scarcely any diminution in the size of the stream of urine, the cause of the obstinacy of the fistula is its callous or some other condition. Then, if the fistula form a canal, it must be divided and filled with lint to promote the development of granulations; or the edges of the fistula, especially if they be callous, must be touched with caustics, as lunar caustic, nitric acid, (A. Cooper,) a solution of caustic potash, or with tinct. canth., (Dieffenbach,) because this is less destruc- tive than irritative. In the application of the caustics, a moderately thick bougie should be introduced into the urethra, the cauterization repeated after the separation of the slough till good granulations are produced, the scarring of which may be assisted with lunar caustic. After the narrow or oblique fistula has been dilated, Dieffenbach recommends the cauteri-