416 REMOTE EFFECTS OF INJURIES and when this appears to be the case it should be gently lifted with an elevator, and drawn out with a pair of forceps ; and if it run far beneath the scalp, as it often does, it is then best to cut through the skin, and lift up the flaps, by which means the re- moval of the dead bone is rendered much easier. In this way I have successfully treated a woman with necrosis of the skull, probably from venereal cause, and removed the upper half of each parietal bone, partly their whole thickness, partly only the ex- ternal table, at two several times, and also portions of the occipital and frontal bones at other times, without the slightest inconvenience. And when these had been removed the exposed internal table and dura mater were found covered with healthy granula- tions, which soon coalesced with those on the under surface of the scalp, and where the latter was destroyed, united by a large intervening scar. The same result also follows the removal of bone which has been destroyed by violence, when the irritation of the brain and its membranes has been quieted.—j. f. s. (3) The preparations from the two following cases are in the museum at St. Thomas’s Hospital. The first related by Ur. Wells (a) exhibited the usual symptoms of epilepsy; but the second, for which I have to thank my friend Green, has rather a cataleptic character. Case 1.—T. H., a negro sailor, aged about eighteen years, was admitted into St. Thomas’s Hospital, November 15, 1804, for paralysis in his left limbs, and being subject to convulsions, both of which he says attacked him four years since, having been struck, a short time before, with the claw of a hammer on the right side of his head. On exam- ining his skull a short narrow chink was found on the right parietal bone, into which the edge of a shilling could just be inserted. It was therefore determined to trephine him, though he had not had any convulsions whilst in the hospital; indeed he said they did not attack him except he was put in a passion. The operation was performed by Birch, in the beginning of December, and the piece of bone in which was the chink, removed. Great difficulty was experienced in raising the bone which appeared to be held by the dura mater, and whilst this was being effected the patient had a severe epileptic fit. A little spur of bone, about the eighth of an inch in length, descended from the under surface of the bone, and seemed as if it were the piece driven down from the short narrow chink, of which there was still some appearance. The dura mater upon which this little spur had pressed was thickened around it. The con- vulsions continued to harass him frequently for nearly a fortnight. Before the wound in his head was healed, his master being about to sail for the West Indies, took him from the hospital. His palsy was then somewhat less than it had been before the oper- ation. He returned to London about ten months after. During his absence he had i grown both taller and stouter; the limbs too of his left side had become stronger, but i they were still much weaker than those of the right, and he was still liable to convulsions < when his anger was excited. Case 2.—A. B., aged seven years, a very pale-complexioned girl, but said to be very healthy, was admitted into St. Thomas’s Hospital, Feb. 10, 1841; and the following account is given of her. On the 13th of May, . 1836, she fell down from a second-floor window upon the curb-stone, and when raised - up was senseless, and appeared as if dead. She was taken to St. Bartholomew’s, where it was ascertained she had an extensive fracture of the right parietal bone, but without any external wound. She remained insensible for twelve hours; but by the application of leeches and cold lotion she got better, and left the house seemingly well at the end of a fortnight. She remained well for two years and a half, complaining only of head- ache when the heat was very great. After this period she had a fit commencing with giddiness ; she looked very silly, and walked round the room several times, generally i repeating the last words she had heard or said. This wras followed by rigidity of the muscles, principally of the right arm and leg, and of the right side of the face, and the corner of the mouth was drawn down. If she had anything in her hand and the arm < were flexed, she would drop it, but the arm remained fixed in the same position. The fit lasted about three minutes, after which her senses returned all at once, and she would ask for anything she had before its accession, or resume her previous employment. At first she had only one fit a day, afterwards seven, and then one every hour, and in this condition she remained for three months. After this time the character of the fits changed; they came on with violent spasmodic contractions of the limbs and contor- tions of the face, without any silliness, but suddenly, and she would fall backwards. | After the convulsions her right arm and leg would be useless, and seem as if dead. Of these fits, which continued to recur for two months, she had three, four, or seven a day, each generally lasting about five minutes, but the last affected her for several hours, a (a) Trans, of a Society for the Improvement of Med. and Surg. Knowledge, vol. iii. p. 91.