189 PSOAS AND LUMBAR ABSCESS. continues to be discharged. I do not know any circumstance under which their em- ployment should be withheld. The issue should not be made on the same side of the spine as that where the abscess is, if presenting in the loins, but on the other side, and opposite the outer margin of the m. quadratus lumborum. And, if there be abscess in both lumbar regions, the issues should be put in above and below them. But, if the swelling present in the top of the thigh, as in the psoas abscess specially so called, it may then be made on the same side, or, indeed, on both sides issues may be introduced. The issue should never be made upon the ridge of the spine, as, on account of the near- ness of the spinous processes to the skin, the periosteum and ligaments covering their tips may be involved in the slough, and the processes themselves become necrotic. Neither should it be made over or upon the abscess itself, as the separation of the slough will open its cavity. Large issues I do not think advisable: a slough as large as a sixpence, made with caustic potash, will, when thrown off, leave a wound as big as a shilling, which is large enough to hold three or four glass beads, and amply sufficient, as with but little attention the issues can be kept open for a considerable time, and, when they seem disposed to heal, their surface must be smeared with the caustic potash suffi- ciently to produce a fresh slough, and, on its separation, the peas are to be again intro- duced. The intention of the issues is to divert the diseased action going on in the vertebral column, which is generally the cause of psoas or lumbar abscess, as already mentioned, and is a practice which I have found eminently successful.—j. f. s. (2) Much difference of opinion still exists among surgeons as to the propriety of waiting the self-evacuation of these abscesses, or of puncturing and emptying them either entirely or partially. Abernethy asks, when the abscess “ protrudes the integuments, that they, from dis- tension, become irritated; that their temperature is slightly augmented; what are we then to do? Are we to wait till evident signs of inflammation appear ? I think not. I would relieve them from distension, by emptying the abscess through a wound made by an abscess lancet. I would open the abscess for a reason which appears paradoxical on its first proposal, which is that it may be kept closed. We can empty a cavity, and by healing the wound keep it afterwards shut, and no inflammation ensues. If nature opens the cavity by ulceration, the opening is permanent and the inflammation conse- quent must be endured.” (p. 153.) The practice of puncturing large abscesses with a trocar, seems to have been first » advised by Deckers, in 109ii; he left the canula in the cavity stopped with a cork, and let out the matter at intervals. The same proceeding was also adopted by Benjamin Bell. Tapping these abscesses with a small trocar was also recommended by Crowtiier, who always introduced it at the same spot. He thought that the aperture ' so made did not ulcerate, nor allow the matter to escape after being dressed. In addition i to drawing off the pus wfith a trocar, Latta (a) advises, that after this is effected, the I end of the canula, which had been introduced at the bottom, should be pressed gently up to the top of the abscess, the trocar introduced into it and thrust through the skin, and then, being withdrawn, a skein of silk to be passed through the canula, which is also I to be removed, and thus a seton formed, (p. 36.) The introduction of the seton is, I should consider, a very dangerous experiment, as likely to excite inflammation, always too much to be dreaded, in a part too prone to run into that condition. I have never pursued this practice, nor, for the reason just mentioned, should I be disposed to do so. And, as to puncturing with the trocar, I do not see any advantage to be obtained from it, and certainly cannot believe the wound would heal more speedily than a simple puncture with a lancet.—j. f. s. 1 * Abernethy’s peculiar treatment consisted in puncturing with “ an abscess lancet introduced with very little obliquity so far that the wound of the cyst of the abscess should be half an inch in length, and that of the integuments, of course, a little longer. A wound of that size is generally sufficient to give discharge to the solid flakes which will occasionally block up the opening without much poking. It is necessary that the flow of matter should be uninterrupted, so that no air should gain admittance ; it is, there- fore, right to make pressure on the abscess, in proportion as it is emptied. The abscess where it presents itself is emptied before that part of it in the loins is completely so. The surgeon should then press the sides of the wound together with his finger and thumb, so as to prevent the ingress of air, and desire the patient to cough repeatedly, which will impel the matter from the internal part of the abscess into that which is punctured. When the abscess is emptied as much as possible, the wound should be at- tentively wiped, and the edges placed in exact contact, and retained in that state by strips of plaster.” (p. 154.) A compress is then put on, but no bandage; the patient is (a) Fractical System of Surgery, vol. i.