364 APPEARANCES ON rabid dog, and when a wound in the ear, inflicted by a rabid dog, begins to become painful, the agony appears to be of the intensest kind. The dog rubs his ear against every projecting body, he scratches it might and main, and tumbles over and over while he is thus employed. The young practitioner should be on his guard there. Is this dreadful itching a thing of yesterday, or, has the dog been subject to canker increasing for a considerable period ? Canker both internal and external is a disease of slow growth, and must have been long neglected before it will torment the patient in the manner that 1 have described. The question as to the length of time that an animal has thus suffered will usually be a sufficient guide. The mode in which he expresses his torture will serve as another direction. He will often scratch violently enough when he has canker, but he will not roll over and over like a football except he is rabid. If there is very considerable inflammation of the lining membrane of the ear, and engorge- ment and ulceration of it, this is the effect of canker; but if there is only a slight redness of the membrane, or no redness at all, and yet the dog is incessantly and violently scratching himself, it is too likely that rabies is at hand.” (pp. 133, 4.) “ In the dog I have never seen a case in which plain and palpable rabies occurred in less than fourteen days after the bite. The average time I should calculate at five or six weeks. In three months I should consider the animal as tolerably safe. I am, however, relating my own experience, and have known but two instances in which the period much exceeded three months. In one of these five months elapsed, and the other did not become affected until after the expiration of the seventh month. * * * The duration of the disease is different in different animals. In man it has run its course in twenty-four hours, and rarely exceeds seventy-two. In the horse from three to four days; in the sheep and ox from five to seven; and in the dog from four to six.” (p. 144.)] 359. The spittle (but according to Trolliet, who found the salivary glands unchanged, the mucus secreted from the inflamed mucous membrane of the bronchi) is the vehicle of the mad poison, which has been proved be- yond all doubt by Hertwig’s experiments. This poison is of a definite character, can impregnate various substances, and retains its activity fora long while. It need not be applied directly to an open wound to manifest its effects ; it may be taken up on parts which have a very thin epidermis, even without a wound. The poison seems to remain entirely inactive when applied to the uninjured mucous membrane of the digestive organs. The contagion is also held in the blood of the mad beast, as proved by Hertwig’s experiments with inoculation. Every bite of a mad beast does not produce madness ; perhaps a peculiar idiosyncrasy is necessary ; but the bite may be also where, the part being covered with clothes, the spittle is retained in them, and the wound is not poisoned. In beasts which have become mad from contagion, the contagion is developed, and can again propagate the disease. In reference to grass-feeding beasts, the experi- ments have a different result. The propagation of madness from the conta- gion of man to beasts, and especially to dogs, is proved by experiments, but no case is known in which it has been propagated from one man to another. [ Appearances on dissection.—As these are most important in enabling us to determine the actual nature of the disease with which the dog is affected, and consequently to de- cide upon the safety or danger of the person bitten, I have thought it desirable to give Youatt’s observations on this subject. “ In dumb madness,” says he, “ the unfailing accompaniment is, to a greater or less degree, paralysis of the muscles of the lower jaw, and the tongue is discoloured and swollen, and hanging from the mouth ; more blood than usual also is deposited in the anterior and inferior portion of it. Its colour varies from a dark red to a dingy purple, or almost black. In ferocious madness it is usually torn and bruised, or it is discoloured by the dirt and filth with which it has been brought into contact, and, not unfrequently. I| its anterior portion is coated with some disgusting matter. The papilla?, or small pro- jections on the back of the tongue, are elongated and widened, and their mucous cover- ing evidently reddened. The orifices of the glands of the tongue are frequently enlarged, particularly as they run their course along the fnenum of the tongue. The fauces, *