538 TREATMENT OF FRACTURED SPINE. [(a) If the unnatural mobility of one or more spinous processes lead to the fair pre- sumption of their fracture from the vertebral arch or arches, but unaccompanied with symptoms of injury to the spinal cord, it is better to leave them alone and merely apply a few leeches. But if symptoms be present, then it may be suspected that there is further mischief, and it will become a question as to the propriety of proceeding to an operation for their relief. (6) The attempt to set a fracture through the body of a vertebra, accompanied, as it almost invariably is, with displacement, and most commonly with fracture of the ver- tebral arch, or articular processes, is, as Chklius says, most highly dangerous, and ought never to be attempted. Brodie, however, thinks differently, and says, “ there can be no doubt, that when the injury is in the lower part of the spine, the attempt to effect reduction may not only be made with impunity, but that it may be successful.” (p. 159.) And he quotes the case of a man upon whom a mass of chalk fell. “Mr. IIardwicke, of Epsom, being sent for, found the first lumbar projecting over the last dorsal. With some difficulty he reduced the displaced vertebra to its natural position; the reduction (as I was informed) taking place with a jerk or snaphe was afterwards admitted into St. George’s Hospital, and then had “ some power of using his lower limbs whilst in bed, but he could neither walk nor stand, and he was unable to empty his bladder without the aid of a catheter.” (p. 157.) In another case where the fracture was between the third and fourth lumbar, Brodie “ endeavoured, by fixing the thorax, and cautiously extending the pelvis to restore the vertebrae to their proper place. The attempt was, in some degree, successful, and no ill effects, of any kind, resulted from it.” (p. 159.) I must confess that Hardwick’s case does not appear to me satisfactory, as the patient was in precisely the same circumstances as a person with this accident for whom no- thing has been done. He lived two or three years without improvement, which is the ordinary history of these cases ; though, after the first few weeks, they, for a time, seem to be recovering sensation and motion, but beyond a certain point they do not mend. I fully agree with Ciielius, that it is better not to attempt any reduction; the only mode in which it can'be possible, as seems to me, is by bending the body forward, so that the displaced arch may be put into the same position as at the time of the accident, and then rise over the arch beneath it; the old method, therefore, of stretching over a barrel, is certainly the most proper mode of attempting the reduction, if it be attempted at all. The only remedies, practicable, are the palliative treatment here proposed, by which it is hoped to accommodate the spinal cord to its unnatural position and to the pressure to a greater or less extent made, by keeping down the inflammatory disposition, but which does not materially relieve the palsy and restore the functions of the parts below the injury—or by an operation to remove the compressing vertebral arch; a subject which will be presently considered. If the case be a compound fracture, which can scarcely happen in any other way than by a ball or bullet, then the loose pieces should, as Chklius recommends, be removed.—J. F. S.] 616. In fracture of the vertebrae with inpression, as in similar injuries of the skull-bones, it has been recommended to lay bare the injured part with an incision along the spinous processes, and separating the muscles on their sides, to remove the arch of the injured vertebra with a small trepan- crown, or with Hey’s saw (Heine’s osteotome would be best.) This operation has been performed by the younger Cline (1), Wickham, Attenburrow, Tyrrell (a), Holscher, Smith, and Rogers; but the result in every case was unfortunate. Experience has not, therefore, yet contradicted the opinion given by Charles Bell (b), which is directly opposed to Astley Cooper’s (c), in reference to trepanning the spine; and it is only to be considered as a means of alleviating the patient’s condition. JjEGer, however, thinks that, as after this operation, there is not any aggra- vation, but rather in most cases immediately improvement, with restoration of motion, although in no case has there been an entire cure, the case calls for the performance of the operation in decided inpression and palsy, (а) Tyrrell’s second and also fatal case in the (c) Cooper, A., On Dislocations, p. 559.—Dec* Lancet, vol. xi. p. 685. 1827. tnres, p. 11. (б) Above cited, p. 23.