250 HYSTERICAL AFFECTION OF JOINTS. mentions a very remarkable case of hysterical affection, “ in which there was great difficulty of discovering whether there was actual disease or not, in which the pelvis was pitched obliquely, as if there were disease in the hip. But there arose a class of symptoms which pointed to the right source, a singular contraction and retraction of the leg, so that the knee was bent almost to the bursting of the ligaments, and the foot turned in so extraordinary a manner, that the great toe lay close to the anus. The re- traction was so powerful that we naturally apprehended that the ligaments of the joint must be destroyed. It proved to be a case of hysteria, and, what was extraordinary, was the resemblance it had in every feature to the disease of the hip-joint.” (p. 297.) Coulson also mentions a case which he saw in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, in which “ the patient was twenty-eight years of age, and had suffered from hysterical affections for ten years. The right heel was doubled under the thigh, the heel rested against the tuberosity of the ischium, and the great toe, as in the case just related, was close to the anus.” (p. 117.) Coulson observes that, in this affection, “ the affected limb is liable to remarkable alternations of heat and cold; at one part of the day the limb feels cold, and assumes a purple aspect; at another, hot flushes, followed by perspiration, break out over the extremity; again, the limb does not merely feel hot to the patient, but is actually so to the touch of another, and the whole capillaries of the affected part become turgid with excess of blood.” (p. 117.) Goodlad (a) objects to the term hysterical being applied to these affections, and says: “ If after a careful examination of the hip, or of any other joint, and of the muscles connected with it, no adequate cause of pain can be discovered there, it surely becomes an imperative duty, and it is the only one remaining to ascertain whether any and what cause exists in the course of the nerves, and if there be no such cause discoverable, the practitioner may safely rely upon finding it where it very frequently, nay, by much the most frequently exists, viz., at the point of connexion which those nerves possess with larger masses of the nervous system; it matters not whether in the brain or in the spinal marrow, the same effects follow. The tenderness of the skin both here and on the spine may alike be disregarded; it is sometimes permanent, at others fugitive; but in either case it is an indication only where disorder may be found by tracing the nerves distributed on these parts to their origin.” (p. 93.) In these cases menstruation is generally either irregular or defective, and the bowels are torpid ; the most important point, therefore, towards the cure consists in putting these matters to rights by constitutional remedies. Local applications, I do not think, are of much service; but Brodie says :—“ The parts may be bathed with a cold evaporating lotion, or they may be enveloped in a plaster composed of equal parts of the extract of belladonna and soap plaster, an application -which will be found of singular utility, not only in these, but in a great number of other painful nervous affections.” (p. 340.) Goodlad thinks that, in addition to whatever may be deemed necessary for the general state of the system, local measures must be had recourse to, not applied to the part inhere the pain is experienced, but to the origin of the nerves distributed to it; and the greatest caution seems necessary that nothing applied there can give local activity to vessels already too active.—J. F. S.] 225. As we shall now consider these diseased conditions of the various joints, under the several names already mentioned, (par. 198,) we shall be able to show, by the difference of their course and the result of pathological anatomy, in what structure the disease has primarily developed itself. Thus, the various opinions which have been advanced with great partiality, as to the nature of these diseases, will be known to be well founded in particular instances, although their universal correctness is denied. I.—IN THE IIIP-JOINT. (Co.ralrjict, Morbus Coxarum, Luxatio spontanea Femoris, Coxarthrocace.) 226. The symptoms of this disease exhibit three very well-defined stages, according as the inflammation has an acute or chronic character. («) A letter to Sir U. Brodie, containing a Critical Inquiry into his Lectures illustrative of certain local Nervous Affections. London. Svo.