240 CONSEQUENCES OF ULCERATION OF CARTILAGES. followed, by some other scrofulous symptoms, such as enlargement of the scrofulous glands of the neck, and mesentery; or tubercles of the lungs. I have often been led to believe that the occurrence of this disease in the joint has suspended the progress of some other, and perhaps more serious, disease elsewhere.” (pp. 249, 50.) Brodie’s last observation is, I am convinced, exceedingly correct, if, as I presume, he means some modification of scrofulous disease in other parts of the body. I am certain that I have, again and again, seen persons, whose appearance betokened incipient phthisis, recover, and become stout and healthy; as if the disease had proceeded to its crisis in the joint, and, on the removal of which by amputation, all the constitutional disturbance ceased.—j. f. s. Brodie considers that “ the scrofulous disease is more likely to be confounded with ulceration of the articular cartilages than with any other. There is, in many respects, a correspondence in their symptoms. There are, however, certain points of difference, and I believe that this difference will be found in general sufficient to enable the prac- titioner, who is careful and minute in his observations, to make a correct diagnosis ; at least, in those cases in which the local disease is not so far advanced, and in which it has not so much affected the general constitution as to make the diagnosis of no im- portance. (p. 250.) The principal difference which is to be observed between the symptoms which have been just described, and those which are met with, where ulcera- tion of the cartilages occurs as a primary affection, is in the degree of pain which the patient endures, and which is much less in the cases of the former (the scrofulous disease) than in those of the latter description. It may, indeed, be matter of surprise that, in cases of this scrofulous affection, the sufferings of the patient should be so little as they are found to be in proportion to the quantity of local mischief. For the most part, the pain which he experiences is not a subject of serious complaint, except at the time when an abscess is just presenting itself underneath the skin, and then it is immediately relieved by the abscess bursting. There is never that severe pain which exhausts the powers and the spirits of the patient in cases of ulceration of the cartilage, except in a very few instances, and in the most advanced stage of the disease, when a portion of the ulcerated bone has died, and, having exfoliated so as to lie loose in the cavity of the joint, irritates the parts with which it is in contact, and thus becomes a source of constant torment. There are other circumstances, besides the less degree of pain, which, although not in themselves sufficient, it is useful to take into the account in forming our diagnosis, such as the general aspect and constitution of the patient, and his having manifested a dispo- sition to other scrofulous symptoms ; the very tedious progress of the disease ; and the circumstance of the suppuration not being in general confined to a single collection of matter, but producing a succession of abscesses.” (pp. 255, 6.)] 224. The prognosis and treatment are the same, as already stated, in inflammation and ulceration of cartilage. [of the favourable consequences of ulceration of the CARTILAGES. 224.* The termination of ulceration of the articular cartilages from whatever cause, although generally destroying the patient by wearing out his constitutional powers, unless prevented by the removal of the limb, is neither always fatal, nor does the joint, or its motions even seem to be always destroyed. When the destruction of cartilage has a favourable issue it terminates in one of two ways. In the first, the cartilage is replaced by a layer of ivory-like bone, and the motions of the joint continue; this espe- cially happens in disease of the hip-joint. In the second, the opposed ends of the bones are united either by a ligamento-fibrous structure, which per- mits a slightly yielding motion of the joint, or by bone which precludes any motion, and thus are produced the two forms of anchylosis, viz., the 1 soft and the hard. Whether the one kind passes into the other, 1 can not positively state, though I think I have seen, in more than one instance, part of the connecting medium ligamento-fibrous and part bony. I. Of the ivory-like covering of the joint surfaces of hones. This condition has been by some anatomists thought to be merely a natural process, the common consequence of age, by which the cartilage thick in youth is gradually thinned in adult age, and