SIMPLE FRACTURES. 507 symptoms are observed. The apparatus must only be removed when the connexion of the bone is complete, otherwise the limb is distorted by the action of the muscles. The time during which the apparatus is to remain on, will depend upon the state of the fracture, upon the size of the bone, upon the power of the surrounding muscles, and upon the function of the limb. In fractures of the lower limbs it should always remain on longer than in those of the upper ; in oblique longer than in transverse fractures. Tf at the proper time no firm callus be formed, the causes which prevent its hardening (par. 579) must be removed. General diseases require suit- able treatment; the ends of the broken bone must be kept in the closest contact and at rest; the apparatus must be applied less tightly on the seat of fracture, and generous strengthening diet ordered. Many months may elapse before the callus becomes quite firm. [(1) Asa fracture should never be properly put up till all swelling have ceased, and the soft parts have almost entirely, if not completely, returned to their natural size, it is unadvisable to continue the use of any cold applications of any kind. It is better to leave the limb entirely alone as long as possible. On the upper limbs the bandages rarely require readjustment for ten days or a fortnight; and on the lower limbs, not for a fortnight or three weeks. Though it must not be forgotten, that one or other strap may require a little tightening daily for the first three or four days, till its woof have attained its utmost stretching; but it is rare that the whole apparatus needs re-adjustment before the time just mentioned. I have, indeed, often known the whole apparatus, bandages and all, untouched from their application till their removal, with the best results.—J. F. S.j 587. The earlier and more perfect the setting of the fracture is, the fewer symptoms follow ; but if before the setting be effected, much inflam- mation and swelling have taken place at the seat of fracture, the patient must be prepared by suitable blood-lettings and dispersing applications for the setting, in which the limb is to have such position that all the muscles shall be properly relaxed, and, if possible, extension and counter-extension made above the neighbouring joints, by which the muscles passing over the fracture are not pressed and dragged by the hands of the assistants. The setting must not, under these circumstances, be long delayed, for the prin- cipal mode of diminishing the inflammation is setting the fracture, the ends of which then no longer irritate the soft parts. Many moderns comply with the general maxims heretofore followed by the older Surgeons in reference to setting and to the application of apparatus after from the first four to eight days, to allow and to wait for the passing by of the inflammation, till the pain and swelling have diminished, and thereby a more secure position of the limb ob- tained. This advice is manifestly objectionable, and the putting off the setting to be restricted only to those cases where decided inflammation has set in. [As a general rule, I do not at all agree with the principles here laid down by Chelius ; I am quite certain that no fractures, excepting those of the collar-bone, and very oblique fractures, in which the ends of the bone threaten to penetrate the skin, should ever be set, that is, put in splints and bandaged, till after three or more days, or more correctly speaking, till the swelling has ceased and nearly or completely subsided. Nothing is gained by immediate application of splints and bandages, for the increasing swelling renders the latter so tight that they require loosening, in consequence of the severity of the pain caused by the constriction ; and I have known mortification ensue from this cause, and amputation required to save the patient’s life; and after this necessary relaxa- tion of the bandages, when the swelling subsides, the whole apparatus becomes loose and useless, and requires to be re-adjusted. Therefore all that should be done at first is, to lay the limb upon a pillow, in a position which gives the patient the greatest ease, and soothes the irritability of the muscles; for which purpose a position intermediate to flexion and extension should be preferred ; and in reference to the upper limb especially, such as will facilitate the return of the blood from its extremity, namely, raising the hand and elbow above the shoulder. A piece of linen moistened with an evaporating