214 ACUTE INFLAMMATION OF SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE. redness of the skin ; the pain is more severe, and it is so much aggravated by the motion of the parts, that the patient keeps the joint constantly in the same position, and usually in an intermediate state between that of flexion and extension. In addition to these symptoms, there is more or less of symptomatic fever of the inflammatory kind. In a few days, the disease, if left to itself, assumes the chronic form, or, perhaps, under proper treatment, it subsides altogether. It must be observed, however, that the boundaries of acute and chronic inflammation do not admit of being very well defined. These terms accurately enough express the two extremes; hut there are numerous intermediate degrees of inflammation, of which it is difficult to determine whether they should he considered as being of the acute or chronic kind.” (pp. 31, 2.) Sometimes the inflammation runs on to suppuration, and the constitutional excite- ment is more or less severe till the pus have either found its way out by ulcerating through the whole wall of the joint, or till it have been discharged by puncture; but in either case it sometimes proves fatal from the disturbance produced. The following are examples:— Case 1 is mentioned by Buodie :—“ A young lady, nine years of age, being at play on the first of January, 1808, fell and wrenched her hip; she experienced so little uneasiness that she walked out on that day as usual. In the evening she went to a dance, but while there, was seized with a rigor, was carried home, and put to bed. Next morning she was much indisposed, and complained of pain in the thigh and knee: on the following day she had pain in the hip, and was very feverish. These symptoms continued ; she became delirious, and she died just a week from the time of the accident. On inspecting the body on the following day, the viscera of the thorax and abdomen were found in a perfectly healthy state. The hip-joint on the side of the injury con- tained about half an ounce of dark-coloured pus; and the synovial membrane, where it was reflected over the neck of the former, was destroyed by ulceration for about the extent of a shilling.” (pp. 73, 4.) Brodie mentions this as a case of “ ulceration of the synovial membrane, as a primary affection;” but it seems to me rather the result of the pressure of the pus in attempting to produce an outlet. And I think that his other case, in which there was “ about half an ounce of thin pus found in the shoulder-joint; and the synovial membrane bore marks of general inflammation, and in one spot where it was reflected over the neck of the os brachii was destroyed by ulceration for about the extent of a sixpence,” (p. 75,) was under similar though less urgent circumstances.— j. f. s. Case 2 is related by Wickham, in which the pus was discharged by ulceration, but the girl died. M. C., aged fifteen years, applied to him, “ on account of pain which she had for several days experienced in her left knee-joint; at that time it had not been severe, but it was confined to one spot below the patella, and she described it as of a dull aching kind.” Leeches, saturnine lotion, aud aperient medicine were ordered. Three days after she was “ suffering very greatly; the pain was general over the joint, of the tensive character, and the part swollen to nearly double its natural size. The skin over it was hot and shining; the febrile symptoms were very high, and delirium had come on. Six days after, suppuration had established itself; and, after the lapse of eleven days more, “she died without any mitigation of the constitutional disturbance; the sen- sorium continuing to be affected to the last.” (pp. G8, 9.) Case 3.—In this instance the abscess was opened, and ultimately did well. In 1836, E. A., a girl of twenty-two years of age, slipped down stairs, and wrenched her knee, but so slightly, that she took no notice of it till a week after, when she had pain at the top of the knee, which increased so much during a single night, that on the following day she was unable to put her foot to the ground, on account of the severity of the pain. She continued suffering severely for three weeks, and then came to the hospital, the girth of her knee being twenty-two inches: fluctuation was very distinct all round the knee-cap; she was free from pain when at rest, but if moved, pain came on, and was increased if the leg hung down. Leeches, blisters, and an issue were employed, but without benefit. The tumefaction increased, and the neighbouring cellular tissue on the thigh became cede- matous. She continued during five weeks getting worse, and, the skin thinning, a lancet was passed in, which evacuated eight ounces of pus, and the wound, having been care- fully closed, healed up. But the matter continued to form, and the pain increasing, and the joint having acquired its former size, another puncture was made, and half a pint more pus escaped. The wound was left unclosed, the discharge continued, but in the course of a fortnight pain, even on motion ceased, and she slowly recovered. When the synovial membrane suppurates after wound of the joint, very commonly the whole of its interior is destroyed, and the patient is worn out, unless the limb be ampu- tated ; or under favourable circumstances the patient recovers with a stiff joint.