FRACTURES—DIAGNOSIS—TREATMENT- 498 576. The diagnosis of Fractures is grounded— 1. On the changed form and direction of the limb. The operation of external violence, the movements of the limb, and the activity of the muscles, displace the ends of the bone more or less (a), according to the thickness of the limb, in which the ends of the fracture have still one part of their surface in contact, and are more or less drawn on one side (b); according to the length of the limb, in which the broken surfaces are com- pletely separated from each other, and lie near to or upon each other; (c) according to the circumference of the limb, when the limb, at the time of the accident, or immediately after, rotates, and the one or other end of the fracture follows this motion {d) ; according to the straight direction of the limb, when the ends of the fracture are not separated from each other, but are more or less bent at an angle. The ends of a fracture are frequently little or not at all displaced, when of the two bones of a limb only one is broken, the fractured part being furnished with a tough fibrous envelope, or the broken surfaces, by means of their relations, mutually support each other, or the one end of the fracture is wedged into the other, as in fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone. 2. On the disturbance of the function of the limb. The motion of the limb is not always immediately prevented, except when of the two bones of a limb only one is broken, or when there is not any displacement of the fractured ends, or if a locking have occurred. 3. On unusual mobility of the part and crepitation in rubbing together the ends of the fracture. In order to ascertain this the limb must be fixed at two different parts with the two hands, and the ends of the fracture are to be attempted to be moved, whilst the one is slightly separated from the other. Further, the patient feels at the fracture, severe darting pains, and con- siderable swelling arises. Easy as is the diagnosis of fractured bones in many cases, yet may it be also difficult, if the bones be covered with much soft parts, if swelling be already present, and the displacement of the ends \ of the fracture be not very great, or if of the two bones of a limb only the more slender be broken and kept in place by the other. According to Lisfranc (a), by the assistance of the stethoscope, the existence of a fracture in any part of the body, except the skull, can never be doubtful. The swelling cannot prevent its perception, as on the slightest motion, crepitation is produced. But this practice must almost always be useless; for if crepitation exist, it is distinguishable without the stethoscope; and if it exist not, the stethoscope furnishes no new sign. 577. The prognosis of fractured bones varies, according to the con- dition of the bone, according to the direction and complication of the frac- ■ ture, according to the age and constitution of the patient, and according to his behaviour during the cure. If the fracture occur in a bone to which strong muscles are attached, its ends are much displaced, and it is difficult to keep them in their propel position. Oblique are more untoward than transverse fractures; they very often are united with shortening of the limb ; and the same happens > in double fracture. The more the soft parts are injured, and the greatei the accompanying splintering of the bone, the more dangerous is the frac :j ture ; especially when large nerves or vessels are wounded by the splinters i in which case the inflammation is always very great; gangrene, copious ,i suppuration, and so on, often follow. Fractures of bones are of less con i (a) Archives Generates de Medecine. Aug. 1, 1823.