THIGH-BON E—UN ION. 567 bony union may take place in these cases (a). That this has hitherto in England been little observed may depend on the very careless treatment of fractures known to be within the capsular ligament. The condition of the head of the thigh-bone has nothing to do with it, but rather the diffi- culty of keeping the fractured ends for a proper time in sufficient contact; frequently, in complete tearing of the fibrous covering of the neck of the thigh-bone, or in bad constitution, or old age, of the patient, is the union of the broken ends often protracted or entirely prevented. Sometimes the upper end is enclosed by bony masses growing from the lower end ; and though commonly considerable mobility remains, yet the motions of the limb are very much interfered with. The broken ends are often connected by a fibrous mass which is not sufficiently firm to sustain the weight of the body ; the lameness is considerable, and the shortening of the limb gradually increases. The broken ends frequently wear away by rubbing against each other ; suppuration in the cavity of the joint takes place, and death soon follows. Sometimes, if one or other of the broken ends be worn by rubbing, and both surfaces become like ivory, a cartilaginous capsule is formed by the thickening of the fibrous covering of the neck of the thigh-bone for the reception of the lower piece of bone, which is capable of supporting the weight of the body. In v. Soemmering’s rich collection there is a preparation of a fracture within the capsular ligament closely united by callus. I possess a similar one, which I had treated in an old woman. The kinds of union just mentioned have been confirmed by Coli.es’ observations on eleven cases (b). Cruvelhier (c) supposes that the callus is produced by ossification of the parts surrounding the broken ends, of the periosteum, and of the muscles, which at first become cartilaginous and afterwards bony. Hence it follows that the broken bone which on one side only is covered with soft parts, upon that only enjoys a bony union, and that when no soft parts lie around the broken parts of the bone, no union by bony substance takes place. In the former condition are the knee-cap and olechranon, in the latter the neck of the thigh-bone. [In St. Bartholomew’s Museum there are several cases of fractured neck of the thigh- bone within the capsule united by ligament. The two following cases prove beyond all doubt the possibility of bony union in frac- ture of the neck of the thigh-bone, and put an end to the disputes upon this subject which had been long and angrily held by English Surgeons. Case 1 was Swan’s patient, (d) a woman of eighty years, who having fallen down, he “ believed there was a fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, although the limb re- mained quite as long as the other, and he could neither perceive any crepitus nor any altered appearance in its position, except a slight inclination of the toes outwards.” (p.15.) She died five weeks after the accident; and on examination it appeared that “ the greatest part of the fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, which was entirely within the capsular ligament, was firmly united. A section "was made through the fractured part, and a faint white line was perceived in one portion of the union, but the rest appeared to be entirely bone.” (p. 17.) This preparation is in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons. Case 2 is related by Stanley (c). A young man of eighteen years fell from the top (a) Brunninoiiausen, above cited, fig. 2, 4. Liston ; in Edinburgh Medicaland Surgical Jour- nal, April, 1820, p. 212. Lanqenbeck neue Bibliothek fur Chirurgie und Ophthalmologic, vol. iii. p. 121. Beobie ; in Edinburgh Med. ami Phys. Jonr. Earle, above cited. Brulatour, A case of Fracture of the neck of the Femur; in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xiii. p.513. 1825. F Lanostaff, G., in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xiii Pt. u. p. 487. Richter, Handbuch der I,ehre von den Briichen und \ errenkungen, p. 314. Dei.pech, J., above cited. (6) Fractures of the neck of the Femur, illus- trated by dissections ; in Dublin Hospital Reports, 1818, vol. ii. p. 334. (c) Anatomie Patliologique, pt. xxiii. pi. 1, 2. Bauer, in Hcidelberger klinisclien Annalen, vol.iii. pt. i. p. 155.—Howship, J., in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xix. 1. London, 1835. (d) An Essay on Tetanus, &c. London, 1825. 8vo. (e) Case of bony union of a Fracture of the Neck of the Femur, within the Capsule, occurring in a voung subject; in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xviii. 1833.