369 ITS SYMPTOMS. contracted, so that the glottis violently closes and the attempts of the diaphragm to descend, and of the muscles of the chest to elevate the ribs, are frustrated from moment to moment. The closure of the glottis, however, is not continuous, but alternates with relaxation of the muscles, so that a succession of sobs takes place. These convulsive actions of the muscles of the glottis, and indeed of the throat in general, are dreadfully violent.” (pp. 288, 89.) Inflammation of the pharynx, or the apprehension of being affected with hydrophobia, may produce incapability of swallowing fluids, but the distinction consists in the ab- j sence of the catching of the breath. Upon this important point Elliotson remarks:— , “ From mere inflammation of the pharynx and surrounding parts, the muscles of de- li giutition are sometimes thrown into violent spasms, and the suffering from this source • i is so great, that even the offer of anything to be swallowed, (and of course it is fluids only which are offered, on account of their being more easy to swallow,) produces the same effects even in a mere nervous state of the system. From a groundless ap- . i prehension of the disease the same circumstances may occur. It is certain, indeed, that i many cases of these two descriptions have been mistaken for hydrophobia; but in the *>• mere inflammation of the organs of deglutition, the other—the great symptom—the great |(i sensibility of the surface to the sudden impression of air, etc., is of course not present. J j Nor is it present in mere nervous irritability of these organs. When the spurious hy- rh| drophobia arises from mere apprehension of the disease, the fear of swallowing only is |j complained of, as it is this which is vulgarly known as the chief characteristic of the p disease, and there is no morbid irritability of the surface to the impression of air. In- I] deed there is a mere inability to swallow, without that sudden catching of the breath |t> which I have described.” (p. 289.) (3) I very much doubt the truth of the assertion here made by Chelius, as also by Jmany other writers, of the patient’s disposition to bite. Dr. Powell, indeed, mentions that his patient (a woman) struck and threatened to bite, and afterwards bit one of the hi attendants; and Magendie (a) also states the same fact. I can only say, that I have u never seen a single instance in which any such attempt was made. But I recollect the 311 younger Cline, when lecturing on the subject of hydrophobia, mentioned it as a remark- 1 able fact, that animals affected with this disease are invariably disposed to use their a I organs of offence; that thus the dog bites, the horse bites and strikes with his feet, cattle band sheep butt with their horns, and man strikes with his fists. And he was accustomed ill to refer to the case of a patient labouring under this dreadful malady, in St. Thomas’s 1 ’Hospital, who, when some drops of water were thrown upon him by a bystander to - 1 notice what effects would result, instantaneously rushed out at the foot of his bed, bolt upright, in a paroxysm of fury, with his fists doubled and prepared to strike ; but im- II mediately recovering himself, asked pardon, and returned to bed. I have never been 1 witness of such scenes, for unfortunately these cruel experiments (for they deserve no •'/.'better name) have, in time past, been too frequently practised to doubt their issue, or to i' afford any apology for their repetition ; and, therefore, the most scrupulous attention is j paid to free the patient from every thing which can in the least degree tend to excite or ■ increase his dreadful irritability.—j. f. s. (4) Elliotson observes:—“ There is also in this disease a general morbid irritability, li 50 that the patient is, from time to time, in a violent passion bordering on frenzy ; he is in perhaps abusive, and even attempts to injure those about him; but in a moment again is i^alm, and apologises for his conduct. The degree of passion probably depends, in some u ;measure, upon the natural temper.” (p. 289.) “This kind of delirium,” says Youatt, i referring to that already observed in the dog, “ is of frequent occurrence in the human li patient. The account given by Dr. Bardsley of one of his patients, is very appropriate 0 our present purpose:—‘ I observed,’ says he, ‘ that he frequently fixed his eyes with horror and affright on some ideal object, and then, with a sudden and violent emotion, ! Juried his head underneath the bed-clothes. The last time I saw him repeat this action, I was induced to inquire the cause of his t rror. He eagerly asked if I had not heard 1 lowhngs and scratchings ? On being answ red in the negative, he suddenly threw him- 1 elf on his knees, extending his arms in a '.efensive posture, and forcibly throwing back 1 his head and body. The muscles of the' face were agitated by various spasmodic con- ortions; his eye-balls glared, and seemed ready to start from their sockets; and at .at moment, when crying out in an agonizing tone, “ Do you not see that black dog ?” j ns countenance and attitude exhibited the most dreadful picture of complicated horror, ■ustress, and rage that words can describe or imagination paint.’”(pp. 247,8.) “One of I lr. Babington’s patients thought that there was a cloud of flies about him. ‘ Why do |'°u not kill those flies ?’ he would cry ; and then he would strike at them with his hand, VOL. 1. (a) Journal <le Physiologic Kxperimentale, vol. i. 2 B