312 STYPTICS. area. The vessel is to be laid hold of transversely close to its edge, is to be a little flattened, and the point of a lancet-shaped knife is to be thrust (according to the size of the vessel) at a distance of half or a whole line from the lateral edge of the flattened artery, and at a distance from its aperture equal to its breadth, parallel to the axis of the vessel through its upper wall, and pushed through it and the under wall, so that a bridge is formed, the length of which is equal to the diameter of the artery. In withdrawing the knife, the cleft in the lower wall which, on account of the converging edge of the knife, is somewhat shorter than that in the upper wall, is to be carefully lengthened ; a pair of close interweaving forceps, an- swering to the size of the cleft, is to be carried from the under wall through both clefts, so that, according to the size of the artery, the instrument pro- jects from one to three lines out of the upper cleft The other forceps may now be withdrawn. The interweaving forceps are next to be some- what opened, and, by means of a probe-shaped instrument which enters one or two lines deep into the tube of the artery, an attempt is made to bring a fold of the cut edge of the end of the artery between the open branches of the interweaving forceps, by bending the end of the artery backwards over their upper surface, and, at the same time, thrusting between them the end of the vessel. As the probe-shaped instrument is withdrawn, the for- ceps are closed, and the end of the artery which they hold is drawn into the double cleft. The compressing forceps may be now laid aside, the end of the vessel held by the interweaving forceps drawn backwards, and, if no bleeding follows, these also may be removed. The processes after inter- weaving agree with those which follow after ligature and torsion. The vessel, besides, must be more than a line in diameter, and easily accessible to the eye and hands. Stilling has also proposed interweaving for the veins : his experiments have, however, been only made on beasts and on the dead human body. 300. The astringent styptic remedies, turpentine, kreosote, tannin, em- ployed to stanch bleeding, produce more rapid contraction of the extremity of the artery, and, perhaps, a quicker coagulation of the blood. To these belong cold water, brandy, Theden’s arquebusade, alum, blue vitriol, and so on. The colder these remedies are applied, the more powerfully do they act. They may also be employed in the form of powder, in which case they seem to close the mouth of the vessels mechanically, as gum kino, gum arabic, colophonium, and so on. Their action, especially as they are most commonly accompanied with pressure on the wound, is always injurious to the healing: they increase the inflammation, prevent the quick union,and are not preservative against after-bleeding. Their use, therefore, is confined to bleeding from small vessels, from mucous membranes, and to so-called parenchymatous bleedings. According to the experiments made upon beasts and men by von Graefe (a) with Binelli’s water, a wad of linen soaked in it, and pressed against the wounded surface for five or ten minutes, will quickly and permanently stanch bleeding from both small and large ves- sels, (even from the femoral artery in amputation of the thigh, and from the carotid in a horse,) without any other assistance, without the least pain in the wound, without discoloration of its surface, without the production of a slough, and without any local or general inconvenience. Examination (a) Journal fiir Chirurgie und Augenlieilkunde, 1830.—Simon, Diss. de Aqua? Binkm.i et Kreosoti vol. xviii. p. 2, vol. xvii. p. 050, vol. xxvi. part.iii. virtute st.yptica, Bcrol., 1833, assigns to it, fro® p. 505. Maurocokdato, iiber die dynamische experiments, scarcely more influence than col Wirkung des BiNEM.i’schen Wassers. Wurzburg, water.