434 WOUNDS OF THE WINDPIPE and calomel with extract of hyoscyamus given. The food must be entirely fluid. Persons who have attempted self-destruction must be carefully watched, lest they disturb the bandages. This treatment must be persisted in so long as the inflammatory and convulsive state of the windpipe con- tinues. If union do not completely occur, the wound is to be covered with lappets dipped in lukewarm water. If the discharge be great, and the powers of the patient give way, Iceland moss, bark, and narcotic remedies must be used. The hoarseness which remains for the most part gra- dually subsides. In injuries of the cartilaginous part of the windpipe, there sometimes remains for along while a fistulous opening, which often closes of itself (2). When the bandage is removed, the patient must guard against a deep inspiration, and much drawing the head backwards (3). [(1) If there be much inflammation and cough it is always best to remove the dress- ings, even though the breathing by the mouth may be comparatively easy, and allow the mucus or other secretion to be coughed through the wound, as their discharge by that passage is more easily effected than through the chink of the glottis, and conse- quently the necessary exertion and irritation are lessened. If the case proceed favour- ably, after a week or ten days the secretion from the lining membrane of the air-tube diminishes, it becomes less viscid, and is separated with less exertion ; the granulations begin to close the aperture, and breathing begins to be performed through the laryngeal chink, and daily increases till the wound has entirely healed. Astley Cooper men- tions an instance of ossification and exfoliation of the thyroid cartilage, in a case where the cure occupied several weeks (p. '246) ; but I believe such occurrences are rare. I have had a case of fistulous wound between the thyroid and cricoid cartilage, which had been of some weeks’ standing before I saw it, and the passage through the latter into the windpipe had become so narrowed, either by the falling together of the cricoid cartilage, of which the front had been perhaps cut off from the hind part, or by the adhesions which had formed between the lining membrane, that breathing was per- formed with extreme difficulty, and with a loud hissing noise. As these symptoms had been gradually increasing it was thought advisable to introduce a short silver tube, to do which it was necessary to enlarge the aperture with the knife, and the tube having been passed in the breathing immediately became easy, and the hissing ceased. She wore the tube for several weeks without inconvenience, and left the house with it still in. In this case, as might be expected, the voice was entirely lost.—j. f. s. (2) These cases are very uncommon. Asti.ey Cooper says that in a wround upon the thyroid cartilage, which remained fistulous, he raised a piece of skin from the surface of the neck, above the opening, and turned it over it, having previously pared the edges, i and it united extremely well.” (p. 246.) (3) Sometimes after a cut has been going on well for some days, a sudden bleeding may come on, either during the exertion of coughing or any other effort, and it will be extremely difficult, if not impossible, to ascertain whether the blood come from an artery or vein. A case of this kind recently occurred in our hospital under my colleague Mackmurdo’s care. A man cut his throat nearly from ear to ear, on the night of the 7th of July, 1845: he lost a large quantity of blood, but when he was found the bleeding had ceased. On examining the wound it appeared that he had cut between the hyoid bone and thyroid cartilage, separating with the former the epiglottis. The edges of the wound were brought together by bending the head down to the chest, a.nd cold water dressing applied. On the next morning one suture was put through the lips of the wound, and on the day following other two. On the fourth day they were all removed, as there did not appear any disposition in the wound to union. On the after- noon of the 14th the sutures were again introduced. At 5, a.m., of the 15th, he had a violent fit of coughing, and, whilst trying to reach the chamber-pot from beneath his bed, a sudden bleeding came on, said to be in a twisting stream. It was checked by pressure, but on the removal of the finger bleeding recurred, and he lost about half-a- • pint of blood; but it was controlled by thrusting a piece of sponge into the bottom of the wound, which was left open, and cold water applied. No further bleeding having l occurred, the sponge was removed on the 18th, and the wound has now (26th) filled with granulations, and the case has every appearance of doing well.—J. F. S.] 470. In Stabs of the Windpipe, owing to the parallelism of its inner and