COMPOUND DISLOCATION. 768 disturbing them, for the first two or three days, to ascertain that the parts are in their proper place. I have known an instance in which a dislocated upper arm after having been reduced and carefully bandaged up, was left undisturbed for some weeks, and on the removal of the bandages was found to have slipped out, and could not be reduced again.—J. F. S.] 994. The treatment in sprains is to be the same as for bruises. Cold applications are to be employed, with careful rest of the joint, general and local blood-letting, proportionate to the bruising and inflammation, and sub- sequently, for the complete dispersion of the extravasated fluids, spirituous and aromatic applications used. There often remains for a long while swelling, weakness of the joint, and, in old persons, a crackling in the joint, which is removed by volatile rubbing, douche bath, and the like. [The two great auxiliaries in reducing dislocations, are bleeding and nauseating doses of tartar emetic. The bleeding should always be made in a large stream from one or both arms, according to his apparent strength, and whilst the patient stands upright, till he feels faint, which is best determined by his bursting out into a cold, clammy, sweat, and unless carefully noticed he drops on the floor before the Surgeon is aware. Immediately on the faintness occurring the extension should be made, the bandages and pulleys having been previously adjusted, if thought necessary; and it should be made steadily and not by jerks. Frequently the excitement of the pain revives him, and it is then advisable to give him a grain of tartar emetic every ten minutes, so as to keep him in a state of nausea till the reduction is effected. If the dislocation be of long standing it is well to reduce the patient’s strength by spare diet and purging for two or three days previous to the operation ; and on the same morning to give him nauseating doses of tartar emetic for some hours prior to the extension, so as to put him in the most favourable condition. And the French Surgeons are in the habit of applying poultices and other relaxing applications to a dislocated joint, for the purpose of rendering the parts more yielding some days before attempts at the reduction are made.—J. F. S.J 995. Dislocations accompanied with tearing of the soft parts covering the joint and thrusting out of the head of the hone, belong to those rare but most dangerous cases, in which severe inflammations, weakening sup- puration, slough and nervous symptoms are to be dreaded. The danger is greater as the bruising and tearing of the parts of the joint are more severe, the older the patient, and the more out of condition his constitution. According to these circumstances the necessity for amputation, or the possibility of preserving the limb, must be determined. Amputation, how- ever, may subsequently become necessary from wasting suppuration, from sloughing, and the like. If the immediate removal of the limb be not indicated, the head of the bone must be returned as soon as possible, and with the least injury of the parts of the joint; the wound must be com- pletely closed with sticking plaster; the limb surrounded with com- presses and with Scuetetus’s bandage, kept in proper position by the application of splints, and the patient must be treated strictly antiphlogis- tically, according to the state of his constitution. The wound often heals by quick union and without any particular symptoms. If suppura- tion ensue, the cure often takes place with an emollient treatment; but generally, if it be copious, it is accompanied with severe pain and nervous symptoms, and must be treated according to the rules laid down for wounded joints (par. 559.) If gangrene come on, it requires the proper treatment. 996. If tlie reduction of the head of the bone, protruded through the soft parts, be in no way possible, even after proper enlargement of the wound in the skin, nothing remains, but to saw off the protruding bone, by which the stretching and tearing of the muscles are relieved, and the joint can be brought to its natural position ; after which the symptoms,