DIVISION OF THE STRICTURE. 747 )| elastic catheter may then be passed. If the urethra at the seat of stricture 1 be completely closed and degenerated, a staff must be, as in the former case, introduced down to the stricture, and laid bare by a proper cut through all the covering parts, the hardened part of the urethra must be taken hold of with the forceps, and cut out with the knife or scissors, after which an elastic catheter is to be introduced through the urethra into the bladder, and properly fastened. The wound is either to be lightly filled with lint, or covered with a wet sponge. This operation is always difficult and dangerous ; considerable bleeding, violent inflammation, and wasting suppuration and the like, may be its consequences. But it is certainly very rarely necessary, as with proper attention and perseve- rance, the most considerable stricture may be overcome, and by proper division of the fistulous passages, the obstacles preventing the cure may be removed. [ The operation of dividing the stricture, when it has become so tight that the urine will not pass by it, but only by the fistulous opening, is not, or ought not, to be attended with either difficulty or danger, but should never be undertaken without the Surgeon is well acquainted with the anatomy of the parts. It differs in no respect from the operation in the perinceum performed constantly, for cases of retention of urine from stricture, and which if there be either no extravasation of urine or but little, rarely do otherwise than well, and both retention and stricture are at once relieved. When there is perinaeal fistula, there is more difficulty in the operation than in simple stricture, because the neighbouring parts are always thickened, and their natural character greatly altered; and also after the stricture has been divided, and a large catheter introduced into the bladder, the sides of the fistula having acquired a mucous-membranous-like character, are little disposed to heal unless their surface be destroyed and new granula- tions encouraged. The operation is best performed by introducing the catheter down to the stricture, and then finding its point by cutting straight through the raphe, till the catheter point is exposed, which is to be the guide for the subsequent part of the operation. It is very advisable that the external wound should be free ; a large clean cut wound heals almost as readily as a small one, and it is preferable, not only as giving the operator more room to act upon the part specially to be acted on, but also is less likely to slough, be- cause the tearing and pulling commonly necessary with a small wound to make room, which cannot even then be obtained, almost invariably produces sloughing. When the point of the catheter has been found, the dissection is to be prosecuted backwards in the track of the urethra, and from time to time the wound must be examined with a director or a female catheter, of which the point should be directed backwards and upwards, the patient being at the same time desired to force, so that the flow of urine may direct to the aperture in the urethra. It is also very good practice to introduce the finger into the rectum, so as to prevent the director or catheter being thrust into the rectum or be- tween the bladder and pubes, which I have known done, and produce very serious consequences- With patience and tenderness the under end of the urethra may be generally found, and the catheter from the upper part of the urethra must be pushed through it into the bladder, and there left. I do not approve of cutting away the hardened part of the urethra, as recommended by Chelius, as it is quite needless, for the inflammation and suppuration, if not even the slight sloughing which may ensue, will remove this without further trouble, whilst cutting away the urethra is more likely to do harm than good, by increasing the cavity to be filled up, and consequently affording more opportunity for burrowing of pus. If the fistula have been of long standing, it may be necessary to brush its surface over with caustic, to destroy its mucous character. —J. F. S.] 967. In a Jistula of the urethra or bladder, communicating with the rectum, (Fistula recto-urethralis et vesicalis,) and consequent on wound, as in cutting for the stone, puncturing the bladder through the rectum, in rough catheterism, or long continued in-lying of a catheter in the bladder, from foreign bodies in the rectum, or from suppuration, especially in old persons, and the like, the urine mostly escapes by the rectum,