HOSPITAL GANGRENE. 70 I cannot agree with Samuel Cooper, that the sloughing phagedsena, of which an ac- count, founded on the cases to which Lawrence refers in his Lectures, is given by Welbank(a), “certainly resembles hospital gangrene,” as described in books. The sloughing phagedsena was certainly an endemic supervening on venereal excoriations or sores, and not hospital gangrene. I shall advert to it hereafter, in speaking of chancre, or venereal ulcers. The only cases that I have seen, with the slightest resemblance to hospital gangrene, were the sloughy stumps now and then occurring, perhaps more frequently during those years, formerly, when our wards were much troubled with erysipelas. The operation would either seem to be going on favourably for two or three days, the patient com- fortable, and adhesion in progress, when a sudden change would set in, the stump become painful, swollen, hard, and red, the un-united part become sloughy, and the united part falling asunder, and soon also becoming sloughy; or, the stump never making any attempt at union, but soon becoming painful, swollen, and sloughy. In either case, the patient himself hot, dry, flushed, with brown tongue, and foul alvine discharges, the pulse quick, irritable, delirium and death supervening. I said such cases occurred, perhaps, more frequently when erysipelas was rife; but they really do happen when no erysipelas is in the ward at the time, nor has been for many months, and they occur not unfrequently in primary amputations in stout persons who have been accustomed to large quantities of beer or spirits, or of both, and from which they are not unfrequently entirely at once (and, as I consider, improperly) debarred; and hence, with a greater call than usual upon the powers of the constitution, are left to meet it with diminished means. Such cases are to be considered merely as resulting from want of power; but they are never epidemic or contagious, and must not be con- founded with, hospital gangrene, which, however frequent it may be elsewhere, is, in London, at the present time, and has been for years, unknown by personal experience to most hospital surgeons.—J. F. S.] 36. The characteristic of hospital gangrene is its quick extension and the decomposition of the tissues without any special residue ; if the grayish- white mass in certain cases be not so considered. Hospital gangrene is an extension of a wound or of a sore intermediate between ulceration and mortification. 37. The cause of hospital gangrene is the operation of a peculiar contagious matter, either upon wounds and the ulcerated parts or upon the whole body. The contagion develops itself usually in hospitals, where the air is deteriorated, many patients huddled together, and the bandages not kept clean ; specially in unhealthy places, as gaols and so on. We know not how long the contagious matter may retain its activity. Probably the constitution of the atmosphere, the weather and climate influence the development and character of hospital gangrene. The susceptibility to contagion is not diminished by its having once been acted upon ; on the contrary, it seems to have increased. The contact of the contagious matter with the wound is either the consequence of want of care in dressing it, its long exposure to the action of the air infected with contagion, or its having been covered with bandages in which the poison is retained. The contagion may happen to every person, and in every kind of wound and ulcer: it rarely, however, alters specific ulcers, whilst on the contrary a bilious constitution, mental affections, great feebleness, typhus fever, appear to be most favourable to it. The character of the disease itself may be changed by the constitution of the patient, and by the state of the weather; it may even become inflamma- tory, in which case the wound is encircled with a red ring, the pain is severe and throbbing, the pulse quick and hard, and the bleeding which occurs produces relief. Hospital gangrene is always a very dangerous complication of wounds and sores. Accidental circumstances may render the danger still greater ; for instance, if it be impossible to give the patient (a) Medico Chirurg. Trans., vol. xi. 1821.