LOCAL TREATMENT 106 be remarked that, although its origin is in many cases obscure, yet a peculiar state of atmosphere, specially the operation of severe cold and a certain change of temperature, must contribute much to it. Hence this disease occurs more frequently in winter and in the coldest months, than at any other time of the year, more frequently in weakly people and on the lower limbs, more commonly in advanced age and in the male sex. 87. The Treatment of simple erysipelas requires especially action on the biliary and cutaneous systems. Emetics have generally here the best effect if employed early, and cannot be replaced by purgatives. If after their operation the fever continue, cooling acid purgatives with suitable antiphlogistic diet must be employed. Not until the fever has entirely or for the most part subsided and no further indication for depletory remedies exists, can sudorifics alone be relied on. Only if the erysipelas, especially on the face, be accompanied with high inflammatory fever, the head thereby attacked, the erysipelatous parts swollen, burning, and pain- ful, accompanied with confusion and determination of blood to the head, should blood-letting or bleeding with leeches behind the ears be employed before the use of emetics, and at the same time the blood should be with- drawn from the head by warm foot-bathing, mustard poultices upon the calves of the legs, and so on. It is always, however, to be remembered, that erysipelas, even when connected with inflammatory fever, will not bear the same active antiphlogistic treatment as other inflammations, and is specially prone to return after any exhaustion. [Two very different plans of constitutionally treating erysipelas are employed in this \ country, and, curious as it may appear to be, with success. The old method, still largely practised, is that on the antiphlogistic plan, first clearing the bowels, and then employing salines and antimonials; and, when the inflammatory action has subsided, administering gentle tonics, as tincture of calumba and the like. This treatment, which formerly I have seen constantly practised, and to which I have been personally, often in my youth, subjected, was generally very successful, and is, by many practitioners, still considered * the best. The second mode is directly the reverse, and was, I believe, first introduced, ! fifteen or twenty years since, by my friend and colleague, Dr. Williams. It consists ■ in the entire reliance on wine (port wine usually) given often to the amount of eight and twelve ounces a day, varying according to the age and condition of the patient’s l constitution, but without any consideration of the stage of the disease. And this practice has certainly been very successful, and is at our hospital now almost invariably followed. I prefer, if the case come under my care early, besides administering a dose of calomel and rhubarb, (which should never, under any circumstances, be omitted,) to give some saline and antimonial for twenty-four hours; rarely beyond that time do I defer giving the wine, the effect of which in checking the progress of the erysipelas is, generally, soon very decided. Bleeding, either from the arm or by leeches from the head, is, I believe, very unadvisable. The disease almost invariably occurs in constitutions without power, and therefore bleeding favours rather than diminishes it.—J. F. S.] 88. The Local Treatment of true erysipelas has no other object than to defend the diseased part against external injury, which may be effected > by the use of dry warmth, by bags of camomile and elder flowers, by warm flannels, and so on. All moist, especially wet or greasy remedies, are in- i jurious, as they repel the erysipelas, or produce oedematous swelling of the part. If, after the fever and swelling have for the most part ceased, 5 there remains an oedematous, colourless swelling, the herb bag must be smeared with camphor, or the swelling covered with green-oil cloth, and swathing of the part made use of. According to Rust, only the vesicular erysipelas and its varieties, especially if they exhibit a more chronic i than acute course, require the application of moist warmth in a proper vehicle, for which purpose Goulard’s lead wash with a small addition