[ 481 ] E.—OF WOUNDS OF THE URINARY BLADDER. 549. The Urinary Bladder is most exposed to injuries, when full and raised out of the pelvis. These wounds, if the peritoneum be not in- jured and if the urine be not poured into its cavity, are generally not very dangerous. Besides the general antiphlogistic treatment, the urine must be drawn from the wound by a pretty large catheter, which is to be left in. When the wound is at the upper part of the bladder, the urine may be carried off by the introduction of a piece of partially unravelled linen between its lips. The dressing must be very light, and we must avoid stopping the wound in any way, or preventing the escape of the urine. Infiltration of urine into the cellular tissue must be prevented or removed by the position of the patient, by some enlargement of the external wound, or by proper incisions at any part where swelling and fluctuation can be felt (1). The removal of foreign bodies which have penetrated into the cavity of the bladder requires especial consideration, because if they remain they may give rise to stone in the bladder (2). [(1) The most common injury of the bladder is its bursting or tearing, in fracture of the pelvis caused by a heavy weight passing over it. I have never seen any other kind of wound. But in naval and military practice the bladder is occasionally wounded as in the following instances:— In the Museum at St. Thomas’s Hospital is the ball which caused Case 1.—Colonel A., whilst in action before Alexandria, March 21, 1801, received a grape-shot through the right ischiatic notch, which, taking ■ a circuitous route, passed through the pelvis without wounding any large vessel or nerve. ^ came out under Poupart’s ligament on the left side, and was found in his pantaloons. In its passage the ball had wounded both the rectum and bladder. The Colonel was i removed from the Desert, on board the Trusty, under the care of Mr. Este, who found : him sinking very fast. He however constantly applied poultices, as hot as could be ! borne, and gave him bark, camphor, ammonia, &c., with brandy and bottled porter, by which latter he was much refreshed. The physician-general, &c., &c., were called in consultation, who agreed that a recovery was impossible. The wound being gangrenous, a discharged extremely, and was intolerably offensive. The fasces and urine passed through : the lower wound, but there was no natural evacuation by the rectum or urethra. After ; some few days a favourable change in the wounds commenced ; the sloughs separated, healthy pus was discharged, granulations were produced, and the wounds healed. The faeces at length and also the urine passed by their natural channels. When able to use i crutches he was sent in a convalescent state to Malta. Stricture of the rectum ensued, r of which he was cured by Sir A. Cooper, and some of the gold lace of his uniform came away. The stricture of the rectum which occurred in this case illustrates the statement already made {par. 532) on this point. Sometimes, however, the foreign body is passed by the natural passage, as related by I Hennen, in the following Case 2.—J. R., aged forty-four years, received a ball July 25, 1813, “through the skirt of his regimental jacket, which entered a little above the tuberosity of the left ischium, in a direction towards the sacrum, and lodged, as was supposed at the time, in M the neighbourhood of that bone. The swelling of the soft parts was so considerable, h and the general inflammatory symptoms ran so high, that when he was carried to the field hospital it was deemed improper to probe much after the ball. He was, therefore, v1 freely bled, his bowels well opened, and emollient applications being made to the ii wound, he was sent down to the general hospital.” After the inflammation had subsided, >'■* the wound was examined, “ but with no other result than to convince the Surgeon that i,' the ball did not occupy the situation originally imagined, but had passed onwards 1) directly into the pelvis.” The wound got well without much suffering, but after three weeks “ there was every reason to suppose that the bullet was lodged in the neighbour- ) hood of the bladder, for he complained of a dull sensation in the glans penis, with u 'numbness and coldness of the testicles, attended with great pain in making water, and o occasionally an inability to retain it; there was, nevertheless, neither stoppage nor VOL. I. 2 I