517 COMPOUND FRACTURES. a observation state, as my experiments were not continued sufficiently long; but what more is needed can be easily supplied from what has been elsewhere observed about necrosis. It would, however, happen, that after the dead part was separated and thrown ; off, the bone would be covered with granulations, which growing, would by degrees be converted into cartilaginous and bony substance, producing what I call the skcondahy callus, and at length be united with the parts in the immediate neighbourhood. “ But this very point, that the parts of the fragments bared of periosteum pass into necrosis seems to be greatly impeached, because practical Surgery in suppurating . fractures should propound that the prognosis is bad from the first; for although I would pass over that in such fractures the first callus proceeds much more slowly, and consequently that arising on both fragments does not so readily unite, the latter callus which is the principal cause of the fragments uniting firmly together, is completely unbegun until necrosis has ceased. But this separation is often effected too late; the formation of the soft parts of the intermediate substance, as it were proceeds more and more, whilst the necrosis ceases to be separated, and between the extremities forms dense membranous investments, pretty closely enveloping the broken ends, as seen in the fourth experiment. The exfoliation being completed the granulations at length spring up, and shortly coalesce with these investments: the inflammation, inasmuch as it has been kept up by the necrosis alone, soon ceases, and cicatrization takes place; therefore not only i is there a loss of the substance, but even that by which the lost substance of the bone is repaired, is removed. Hence either the bony junction of the fragments is effected by the first callus alone, and therefore the union is little firm ; or the fragments are ■ merely contained tin fibro-cellulous investments, and a spurious joint, as it is called, is formed. “From the fewer experiments I have made, I certainly dare not conclude that the parts of fragments bared of periosteum, inasmuch as they are bathed in pus, always die, and that the doctrine advanced by Gendkin, that “ these parts are softened, changed i into red tissue,and covered with granulations,” is entirely refuted; for what is alleged by this writer from experiments, so far as may be judged from the manner of his narra- i tion, seems no less to be depended on, although he has not stated what the experiments were. Besides, my experiments on full-grown rabbits were not sufficiently numerous, that any thing could always be certainly collected from them. But they so agreed together, as also entirely with those which I have elsewhere noticed of acute inflamma- > tion of bone, that I cannot but at present rather doubt, that softening and swelling, which almost every one agrees existing in inflamed bones, and hence I am disposed hereafter to follow this matter further. “ It is doubtless very remarkable that Gendkin, Breschet, Meding, and Kortum, make not the least mention of the necrosis which exists in suppurating fractures. Mar- • rigues (a') had distinctly stated that the first callus could not be produced in suppurating I fractures of bones, as the extremities of the fragments, if not entirely, at least the 1 greatest part of them exfoliated. Most other writers speak only incidentally and without clearness on this point; thus for example Bell says large portions of bone separate, Boyer that granulations spring from the ends of the fragments, sometimes whilst ex- foliation proceeds, and sometimes when it does not. In observations relating to the cure of compound fractures, in the Surgical Journals edited by Riciiter, Langenbech, Graefe and Walther, I have at present found few in which it is not stated, that single 1 splinters, and often indeed long after the occurrence of the fracture, are thrown off; in most I have found distinct mention of separated necroses, nor did it seem doubtful but that the splinters also above mentioned should be referred to the necrosis. It follows that necrosis exists in suppurating fractures, if not always and necessarily, yet doubtless in the greater number. But indeed since necrosis itself is to be considered the main cause why compound fractures are either but little firm, or entirely unconsolidated, and the necrosis arises not so much from the injury (mechanical) of the bone itself as from the disturbance of the first intention, is it not worth while to try whether, often by uniting the external wound, and converting the compound into simple fracture, which spontaneously happens in rabbits by the formation of a scab, care might not be taken that the bone should not die? Whether by a proper treatment the prominent parts of the bone having been accurately adjusted, or as cii'cumstances might require cut off with a saw, the lips of the wound united, and more violent inflammation prevented, that may not be effected by art in man which in certain animals is done by nature ?” (p. 223-25.)] 590. Amputation may be necessary in Fracture of Bones; 1, on nc- (a) Cited at the head of the Article.