465 OF THE INTESTINES. the wound, finds the point which corresponds to the part already pierced, and pushes in the same needle about a line and a half from the edge, allowing it to pass for a line’s space between the coats and about two lines and a half from the bleeding edge. The other threads are applied in the same manner at a distance from three to four lines. The edges of the wound are then turned inwards by means of a probe, and a simple knot is made upon the probe, after which it is withdrawn. In consequence of this stitching, a ridge formed by the edges of the wound, projects into the in- testine ; externally a grove is seen, where the serous surfaces of the intestine lie close together. If the intestine be cut completely through, the edges of the wound produce an internal circular valve. Reybard (a) recommends, in long and oblique wounds, the applica- tionof a flat thin piece of wood, having a double thread fastened to it, the ends of which are thrust with a needle through the corresponding edges of the wound of the intestine, and then both ends threaded together into a single curved needle, are drawn outwards at some distance from the edge of the wound, in the wall of the belly, through the latter, and here fastened on a roll of charpie, so tightly that the edges of the wound in the bowel, united on the piece of wood, are pressed to the inner surface of the perito- neum. The wound in the belly unites. On the third day the threads are loosened and withdrawn; the bit of wood is discharged by stool. In a complete cutting through of the intestine, the union of the gut with the peritoneum around the wound is effected either at first by a portion of the mesentery ; or the gut is to be fastened to the bottom of the wound with some stitches, and then a pair of forceps having been applied on the opposed walls of the intestine, which form a projecting angle, they are cut into with the enterotome, and united by the continued application of the forceps during forty-eight hours, when the faeces take their natural course and the external wound closes. [As Chelius, after enumerating so many modes of stitching- up a -wounded intestine, has given a decided preference to that recommended by Lemhekt, without noticing the practice of English Surgeons, except a very trivial reference to Astley Cooper’s treatment of slight wounds in these organs, it is necessary to show what had been already proposed and done in this country long before. Travers mentions the following experiment made by Shipton (b), an English sur- geon, in the year 1702, and which is the groundwork of his own experiments. “ Ship- ton having cut away a portion equal to two finger’s breadth of the ileum of a dog, con- nected the extremities by an uninterrupted suture, and closed the external wound. The cicatrix being completed, and the parts examined at the end of three weeks, the result proved highly curious. The sewed intestine lay at a considerable distance from the wound, firmly attached to the peritoneum, but the suture had yielded, so as to allow the cut ends of the gut to recede, which were enveloped in a sac formed of adhering omentum and intestine. The following are the writer’s words:—‘ Ad cicatricem ab interna parte accuratius lustrandum, intestinum juxta longitudinem excidimus, quo ex uno latere vulneris labia adducta, ex altero eadem divisa proximisque adjacentium in- testinorum partibus agglutinata fuisse apparebat, ita ut exteriores eorum tuniem internum ab isto latere efformantes parietem, intestinalem fistulam continuarent, cibisque deve- hendis commode inservirent.’ (p. 1301.) The appearances described and delineated by Shipton bear a pointed resemblance to those of experiment N. The divided parts were retained in the one case by suture, in the other by the continuous portion of the tube in opposition, though not in contact. In both, the interval of the orifices was a sac formed by the adherence of surrounding parts, which received the intestinal matters. In Shipton's experiment the artificial canal was more uniformly cylindrical, because the division was complete, in my own it was irregular, because the section was partial.” (p. 114-16.) (a) Memoires sur \e Traitement des Anus Arti- (6) Observatio <le portione intestini canis felici- ficiels, des Plaies des Intestins, et des Plaies pene- ter abscissa; in Phil. Trans, vol. xxii. p. i. l;oj. trantes de Poitrine. Paris, 1827. VOL. I. 2 H