COMPOUND FRACTURES. 511 (8) During the progress of compound fractures, abscesses often occur, sometimes near to, sometimes more distant from, the wound. If after a few days they do not make their way to the wound, and empty themselves by it, or if after having so done, they burrow beneath the skin, it is best to puncture them, to favour the ready escape of the matter; but large wounds for this purpose are neither necessary nor advisable. (9) Wounds of large vessels in compound fracture are not of so little consequence as Chelius thinks ; nor is either tying them in the wound, or tying the trunk above, so lightly to be undertaken as his recommendation would seem to infer. Active arterial bleeding in compound fracture is always a very important circumstance, and requires grave consideration as to the treatment to be adopted. The first point to be determined is the possibility or propriety of taking up the vessel in the wound. If the bleeding orifice be exposed, the vessel may be tied above and below the wound, if it be only wounded; but if it be torn through, both ends should, if possible, be tied, as unless that be done there is no certainty that bleeding will not recur from the untied end at any time that the general wound be unhealed. If the vessel cannot be found by carefully and gently sponging out the wound, then comes the question, should the wound be enlarged in the direction presumed most likely to discover it ? I think not, as it is commonly a very uncertain and unsatisfactory proceeding, the torn state of the parts, and the effusion into them, rendering the discovery of the vessel very difficult and often impossible; besides which, the bleeding vessel may be almost certainly ascertained to be so deeply situated and so lodged, that it cannot be got at from the wound, even though enlarged, as when the posterior tibial or the peroneal artery is injured, and the wound is on the front of the leg. The second point then presents itself, that of tying the principal vessel of the limb above, and at a distance from the wound. This is open to two objections, first, that there is no certainty of the bleeding not recurring when the circulation has been restored by the collateral branches, under which circumstances the patient is again placed in the same dangerous condition as originally; second, that there is always fear of the limb becoming gangrenous from the supply of blood having been cut off, under which state the patient’s recovery can only be hoped for by having recourse to amputation whilst in a most unfavourable condition. With these views, it seems to me preferable, if the bleeding cannot be stopped by taking up the vessel in the wound without much disturbance of the injured part, to am- putate the limb at once, as being the safest course to pursue; for if there be much groping in the wound, it will most assuredly slough, and the patient suffer severely from, if not be destroyed, by the consequent constitutional irritation. (10) Mortification may occur at almost any period after compound fracture, and when setting in early, most commonly depends on the severity of the bruising and tearing, which the constitution feeling it has not power to repair, makes no effort towards restora- tion, but immediately sets about throwing it off. If there be sufficient strength, the extent of the slough is soon defined by the ulcerative inflammation, which forms a groove, at first superficial, and then gradually deepening and following the dead parts till their final separation. Sometimes, however, the sloughing commences below, and the skin remains for a time sound, until the pressure of the slough and pus, with which it is sodden, causes ulceration for its discharge. At other times the mortification remains undefined, and from day to day continues creeping on till the powers of the constitution are worn out, and the patient sinks from the accompanying hectic fever. The constitutional treatment is, in these cases, of the first importance ; not loading the stomach with medicine, but judiciously providing it with easily digestible and nutritious diet: strong beef tea with arrow-root, blanc manger, jelly without acid, eggs, and oysters if in season; the latter I have often induced patients to take when nothing else would be taken. The patient’s habits in regard to beer, wine, or spirits, are to be carefully inquired into, for that quantity of either which, with moderate persons, would be con- sidered large, is to others of not the least benefit. I have known a pint of brandy taken in the course of the day, and absolutely necessary to carry a porter through safely7 whose leg had been amputated for compound fracture. A pint of wine, or four or six ounces of brandy, or three or four pints of beer, or portions of all three, are commonly7 required in our treatment of these cases in the hospital. Sometimes it is necessary to give gin or rum, to which the patient has been accustomed, and which suit him better than any thing else. If the stomach will bear it, I prefer good porter far before wine or spirits ; the effect of the latter are scarcely more than stimulating ; but the porter is less stimulating, its effect more enduring, and the large quantity of mucilage it contains renders it at once both victuals and drink, and affords much nutriment to the constitution. If purging come on, the porter must be omitted, and brandy in arrow-root must supply its place. As to external applications, simple bread-and-water, or linseed-meal poultices are best.