INTERNAL TREATMENT OF BURNS. 119 used immediately after the accident, the important point is to determine how long they shall be continued. This, in reference to stimulants, has, as already mentioned, been determined by Kentish; and, with regard to the cold, is generally continued either till suppuration or sloughing is decidedly set up, and then, as the case may be, simple dressings, either with ointments, or absorbing powders, or poulticing, are resorted to. But I think my plan of poulticing throughout is preferable. With regard to the vesications in burns and scalds, unless they be very extensive and attended with destruction of the underlying parts, it will have been observed from what I have already stated that I do not consider them of very material consequence if properly attended to. But many persons think it important to prevent them, and en- deavour so to do by their treatment, whatever it may be. Higginbotham (a) of Nottingham speaks in favour of using nitrate of silver for this purpose, and says:—“ I have found that by slightly passing the nitrate of silver once over a burnt surface, the pain is increased for a short time, but then totally subsides, vesication appearing to be prevented ; the black cuticle peals off in a few days, leaving the part well.” And fur- ther :—“ In cases in which the cuticle has been removed, the nitrate of silver applied on the surface induces an adherent eschar, and prevents the consequent ulceration.” (p-149)- ... ; . The complete charring of the skin of a limb is no proof that the subjacent parts are destroyed or that they will slough and the case terminate, if there be sufficient strength of constitution by spontaneous amputation. The removal of the limb under such cir- cumstances, immediately, is not advisable. But if it be fully ascertained that the entire mass has perished, immediate amputation is inadmissible; for the limb is under precisely the same conditions as if under gangrene from any other cause, or gangrenous spon- taneously. There is always inflammation in the neighbourhood, either resulting at once from the extended influence of the destructive agent, or very shortly after set up to bring about the separation of the dead from the living part; and if, whilst either of these exist, amputation be performed, there is every probability of a sloughy stump and increase of danger to the patient. It is, therefore, necessary to wait till a line of de- marcation between the living and dead parts be formed, simultaneously with which, if the progress of the case be favourable, the inflammation begins to subside, and ceases as suppuration is established, and then is the time to perform amputation if needful. Cases of this kind are not frequent (6). Sometimes it happens that the destruction of skin on a limb, has been so great that large wounds remain for weeks or mouths without any disposition to heal, and with great draught on the patient’s powers, from the large suppuration which is kept up. If the use of absorbent powders, as calamine or chalk or the application of nitrate of silver in lotion upon soft rag or lint be insufficient to check the discharge, and to induce the formation of skin, then, if the patient’s constitution begin to droop, and not till then, I think, should amputation be performed.—J. F. S.] 100. In burns with gunpowder, which, from the black crust covering the part, often seem much more dangerous than they really are, the grains of powder often penetrate the skin, and, if they remain after the cure, grow in and produce a bluish-black discoloration. In parts commonly uncovered, as the face, they must either at first or during the suppuration be removed with a lancet or with a needle ; in other respects, the burn is to be treated according to the ordinary rules. If the grains of powder heal in, each must be removed by a little cut. 101. The employment of internal remedies in burns must be guided by the constitution of the patient and by the severity of the symptoms. If the inflammation be high, powerful antiphlogistic remedies must be em- ployed ; thereby only can the spread of the inflammation and gangrene be prevented. The great pain and nervous symptoms so commonly accom- panying severe burns require at the same time opium both internally and externally in connexion with the ointments mentioned, cherry-laurel water, extract of hyoscyamus. If there be a bad state of the juices, or great weakness, these must be specially attended to in the treatment. tl ^*SSa- 0n ^le ^se Nitrate of Silver in (b) Two eases of mortification resulting from Lure of Inflammation, Wounds and Ulcers. burn, in which amputation was performed, are men- n on, 1829. 8vo. 2nd Edition. t tioned in the Lancet for 1840, 41, vol. ii. p. 687.