787 OF THE UPPER-ARM. cult, on account of the atrophy of the m. biceps, that it can scarcely be brought to a right angle. Elevation is not performed gradually, but with a sudden jerk, in which the blade-bone also is considerably raised, the arm pressed to the side, and sometimes even the body bent to the other side, whilst the elbow-joint rests upon the crest of the hip-bone. The deformity exists from birth, but only first at the period of perfect develop- ment does it become more apparent. This congenital dislocation may exist on both sides at once. 1041. Examination after death of a case of subcoracoid dislocation on both sides, showed upon the one side scarcely a trace of the natural socket, but, on the contrary, immediately beneath the lower edge of the coracoid process, partially upon the ribs, partially on the axillary edge of the blade- bone, a well-formed socket of an inch and a-half diameter ; this reached to the under surface of this process, and was only separated from the upper - arm by the capsule of the joint. The perfectly formed capsular ligament, extending from the undeveloped glenoid cavity, surrounded these articular surfaces. The perfectly natural tendon of the m. biceps arose from the point of the latter, and the capsular ligament was also quite natural. The head of the upper-arm-bone varied considerably from its rounded form; it was oval, and its long axis corresponded with that of the bone itself, which depended especially on the hinder part being deficient. The shaft was small and decidedly atrophic ; the position of the head on the coracoid process varied, according to the rotation of the arm inwards or outwards. Upon the other side the deficiency of the articular surface was confined to its inner edge, which was entirely wanting for a thumb’s space from above downwards. The inner edge of the joint-surface was formed by a long ridge, which passed down from the under surface of the coracoid process ; the tendon of the m. biceps and the capsule were per- fectly formed. 1042. Smith saw and examined after death congenital subacromial dis- location on both sides. The coracoid process projected considerably, as did also the acromion; the joint-surface beneath was not, however, to be felt; the projection of the acromion, as well as the flattening of the shoulder, was less decided than in subcoracoid dislocation ; the flattening was confined to the front of the joint. The head of the upper-arm-bone formed a distinct swelling on the back of the blade-bone, beneath and behind the point of the acromion, close on the under surface of its spine. The upper-arm did not stick out from the side, and the fore-arm was rotated inwards. Internal examination of the joint presented no trace of an articular cavity in the usual place, but a well-formed articular pit, sur- rounded by a capsular ligament, arising from the outer surface of the neck of the blade-bone, which was broader above, and completely reached the undersurface of the acromion; the tendon of the m. biceps was perfect, and firmly attached to the upper and inner part of the unnatural joint s surface, the direction of which was forwards and outwards. 1 he head of the upper-arm-bone exhibited the same oval form as in the subcoracoid dislocation, only that the fore part of the head was in this case deficient. The little tubercle formed a considerable projection, long and curved, so that it had remarkable resemblance to the coracoid process of the blade- bone. 1043. That these dislocations are congenital and not of accidental occurrence, Smith thinks he has found proof of, as regards subcoracoid 3 E 2