FRICTION-CURE. 664 the chest, coughing up of blood, hectic fever, dropsy, scurvy, and the like. When, however, these diseases are the consequence of syphilis, the fric- tion-cure is indicated. The skin of many persons has also a too great or ; too little receptivity for mercury, which at first cannot be determined. In the former case generally the cure is not completed ; in the second no cure ensues. [(1) I cannot at all agree with Cuklius's opinion on this point; for, beyond all doubt, the employment of mercury by friction is the mildest mode in which it can be used, and the only way in which it should be used, if imperatively called for, in the very cases where Ciielius forbids it. One very important point must not, however, be lost sight of, to wit, the support of the constitution by generous diet, with porter or wine.— J. F. S.] 845. The cure itself primarily consists in the proper preparation of the patient by bathing, purging, and a strict diet, by which the susceptibility for the operation of the mercury is increased and the absorbing process promoted, so that even a smaller quantity of mercury may produce the alteration of the constitution. The patient should first take a purge, then every other day a bath not warmer than 29° R. [= about 97° Fahr.] Without any contrary indication twelve baths should be taken, but where the destruction of an important part is to be feared, then less may be used. In robust full-blooded persons the effect of the cure is always rendered more powerful by one or two blood-lettings. Phlegmatic puffy persons often derive no benefit from bathing, and therefore must not bathe beyond thi’ee days. During the use of the bath, and subsequently during the ! rubbing in, the patient should take thrice a day a lightly boiled porridge of a pint of meat broth with some grits, barley, rice; or instead of the porridge a cup of coffee on the first day, also some boiled ripe fruit or pears ; and for drink a decoction of rad. bardance, liquiritice, and ulthece, not exceeding three pints in the twenty-four hours. But frequently it is necessary with old weakly persons to give more strengthening diet, wine, meat broth, with eggs and the like. In women the preparatory treat- ment must be complete before the commencement of the menses ; and when they are over, then the rubbing in may be begun. If the menses recur at every fourteen days, the treatment must be so arranged, that they should have ceased before the critical days, and not interfere either with the me- dical treatment or w ith the evening frictions. If it should come on unex- pectedly during the cure, the friction must be put aside. After the bathing is finished a second purge is to be ordered, and then the nibbing in proceeded with. [Of all the preparations here recommended English Surgeons take no heed, excepting i the clearance of the bowels at the onset, and a light unstimulating diet during the treat- | ment. Nor is there any necessity to suspend the rubbing, in women during their monthly courses.—J. F. S.] 846. Twelve rubbings are nearly always sufficient to cure the inveterate venereal disease ; frequently from five to six, most commonly nine; mostly no syphilitic disease requires more. Nothing definite can, howrever, here be fixed ; the number of rubbings must depend on circumstances. For rubbing in, at first one drachm, and afterwards one and a half or two drachms of well-prepared gray mercurial ointment is to be used. The hand with which the rubbing is to be done should be previously warmed before the fire, and the rubbing should be continued five minutes. According to Weuemeyer (a), in old and stubborn cases from eighteen to twenty O') Bemerkungen iiber die Syphilis und ihre Quecksilhers in derselben; in Rust’s Magazin, verschiedenen Formen und den Gebrauch des vol. ix. pf. ii. p. 297.