753 TREATMENT BY STITCHING. i with much hardness, and especially, according- to Dieffenbacii, if it be high up in the vagina, where the suture is inapplicable, and the neck of the womb participating in the burning, and thereby swelling, assists the union. Sanson describes a peculiar apparatus for illuminating the vagina after the introduc- tion of the speculum. Dupuytren has also a connecting catheter, projecting wings on both sides instead of hooks. Naegele’s and Laugier’s connecting forceps. 974. Sewing up the vesico-vaginal fistula, after having previously refreshed its edges according to the proposal of Rooniiuysen («), as practised by Fatio (5) and Voelter (c), but not since thought of, and in ' which Naegele (cl) proposed different modes of proceeding, Sen reger (e) followed out successfully, has been .frequently of late, and with various ■ modifications, performed, but rarely with success. YVrUTZER(/) has had the greatest success, (of eighteen operated on, three were radically cured and the rest improved,) who, by the careful and precise detail of his observations and trouble, accompanied with rare perseverance, has import- antly contributed to perfecting the operation, and, by the addition of para- centesis vesicce, in order more completely to draw off the urine, has . advanced considerably farther than his predecessors. The performance of the operation for vesico-vaginal fistula is always difficult, and may be even dangerous, from severe inflammation of the bladder and peritoneum. The difficulty of the operation is increased by the high situation of the ; fistula and by the narrowness of the vagina; so also the improbability of its success is in large openings with thin edges, with the whites, with the urine not properly drawn off', and in a bad constitutioned patient. If there be adhesions of the vagina these must be first divided, and any incrustations in the vagina or bladder removed. If the patient still men- i struate, the operation must be undertaken two days after it lias ceased. The intestinal canal must be cleansed by purging or clysters. According to Wutzer, the operation is only to be undertaken in fine weather. 975. The patient should be placed on her belly upon a table covered with a mattress, so that she may kneel near its edge, with her head and chest bent forwards, and supported with small bolsters. The operator sits between the patient’s thighs, upon a seat of proper height, so that his arms should not soon tire. To widen the vagina and render it sufficiently open, a blind hook should be introduced into it, and the perinceum raised with it, by an assistant. The labia, together with the sides of the vagina, are to be drawn outwards by other assistants, standing on either side, either with the fingers alone properly applied, or with slightly bent hooks. The position of the patient on her belly is much preferable to that on the back, (as in the operation for the stone,) which has been recommended by most persons, as the per- formance of the operation is rendered considerably easier, although for the patient it is more irksome than on the back. The widening of the vagina with a speculum in the way proposed, is also preferable. (Wutzer.) 976. According to Wutzer’s method for refreshing the edges of the fistula, the most conveniently situated part should be seized with a long- (n) Ileebkonstige Anmerkingen. Amst. 1663. (b) Helvetisch-verniinftige Wehmutter. Basle, 1752. (c) NeueerofTneteHebammenschule. Stutt.1722. (d) Erfahrungen und Abhandlungen aus dem Gebiete der Krankheiten des weibl. Gcschlect.es. Mannheim, 1S12, p. 36!), vol. i. ii. VOL. I. (e) Annalen des chirurg. Klinikums aufder Universitat zu Erlangen. Erlangen, 1817, p. <8. (/) UeberdieHeilungderBlasenschiedenfistel; in Organon fur die gesammt Ileilkunde, vol. ii. pt. iv. — F. HUttoF.N BACH, Dissert, de variis fistula; vesico-vaginalis operandi methodis. Bonn., 1841. 3 c