SUBACUTE INFLAMMATION OF SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE. 215 If the acute stage be checked, it sometimes subsides entirely, but at other times the inflammation becomes chronic, or terminates in the effusion of a large quantity of fluid in the cavity. In the much more frequent subacute or chronic form, when “ inflammation of the synovial membrane takes place, as a symptom of constitutional affection, where the system is under the influence of gout or rheumatism, See.,” Brodie says, “ in these cases, the disease, for the most part, is not very severe; it occasions a preternatural secretion of synovia, but does not, in general, terminate in the effusion of coagulable lymph, or in thickening of the inflamed membrane. Sometimes it attacks the] greater number of the joints at the same instant, and even extends to the synovial membranes, which constitute the burscc mucosa and sheaths of the tendons. At other times, it leaves one part to attack another, and several joints are affected in succession. In other cases, the disease is entirely local, produced by a sprain, or other injury, or the application of cold, and sometimes arising from no evident cause. * * * Where the inflammation is thus confined to a single joint, it is more probable that it will assume a severe character, and that it may be of long duration. It leaves the joint with its functions more or less impaired, and occasionally terminates in its total destruction. In itself it is a serious disease; but it is often confounded under the alarming name of white swelling, with other diseases, which are still more serious.” (pp. 21, 2.) “ The pain,” Brodie observes, “ usually continues to increase during the first week or ten days, when it is at its height. Sometimes even at this period the pain is trifling, so that the patient experiences but little inconvenience from it: at other times it is consi- derable, and every motion of the joint is distressing and difficult. In the course of one or two days after the commencement of the pain, the joint may be observed to be swollen. At first the swelling arises entirely from a preternatural collection of fluid in its cavity. In the superficial joints, the fluid may be distinctly felt to undulate when pressure is made alternately by the two hands placed one on each side. When the inflammation has existed for some time, the fluid is less perceptible than before, in consequence of the synovial membrane having become thickened, or from the effusion of lymph on its inner or outer surface; and, in many cases, where the disease has been of long standing, al- though the joint is much swollen, and symptoms of inflammation still exist, the fluid in its cavity is scarcely to be felt. As the swelling consists more of solid substance, so the natural mobility of the joint is, in a great degree, impaired.” (p. 23-5.) “ Inflammation may attack the synovial membranes in different degrees of intensity ; but, for the most part, it has the form of a chronic or slow inflammation, which, while it impairs, does not altogether destroy the functions of the joint; and which, if not relieved, in the first instance, by active and judicious treatment, may, like a chronic ophthalmia, continue for weeks or months, and, with occasional recoveries and relapses, may even harass and torment the patient during several successive years.” (p. 23.) “ The form of the swelling deserves notice. It is not that of the articulating ends of the bones, and, therefore, it differs from the natural form of the joint. The swelling arises chiefly from the distended state of the synovial membrane, and hence its figure depends, in great measure, on the situation of the ligaments and tendons, which resist it in certain directions, and allow it to take place in others. Thus, when the knee is affected, the swelling is principally observable on the anterior and lower part of the thigh, under the extensor muscles, where there is only a yielding cellular structure between those muscles and the bone. It is also often considerable in the spaces between the ligament of the patella and the lateral ligaments; the fluid collected in the cavity causing the fatty substance to protrude in this situation, where the resistance of the external parts is less than elsewhere. In the elbow, the swelling is principally observable in the posterior part of the arm, above the olechranon, and under the extensor muscles of the fore arm. And in the ankle, it shows itself on each side, in the space between the lateral ligaments and the tendons, which are situated on the anterior part.” (pp. 25, (i.) “ After inflammation of the synovial membrane has subsided, the fluid is absorbed, and, in some instances, the joint regains its natural figure and mobility; but, in other cases, stiffness and swelling remain. Sometimes the swelling has the same peculiar form which it possessed while the inflammation still existed, and while fluid was con- tained in the joint; and we may suppose that it depends principally on the inner surface of the synovial membrane having a thick lining of coagulable lymph; at other times, the swelling has the form of the articulating extremities of the bones,’that is, nearly the natural form of the joint, and it probably arises from the thickened state of the synovial membrane. * * * ln those cases where the synovial membrane is thickened, although >e fluid which had been effused is absorbed, and the principal swelling has disappeared, 1 occasionally happens, not only that a certain degree of inflammation still lingers in