321 RESUMPTION OF THE LIGATURE. ou autres parties. Car de ce ne peut aduenir aucun accident. Ains avec ce l’union des vaisseaux se fera mieux et plus seurement que s’il n’y auoit seulement que le corps des ditz vaisseaux compris en la ligature. Ainsi tires, on les doit bien lier auec bon til qui soit en double.’’ (cli. 13.) In a subsequent chapter, (15th,) which he heads with: Cequ'ilfautfaires’ilsuruenoit flux de sang a cause d’vn des susditz vaisseau deslie, he describes another mode of pro- ceeding, first advising, as more easy and less painful than the reapplication of a light bandage round the limb, as used in his time preparatory to amputation. “ qu’vn ministre de ses doigtz sur l’endroit du chemin des- prene le membre a deux mains pressaut fort de ditz vaisseaux: Car en ce faisant il empeschera le fiux de sang. Ce pendant tu prendras vue aiguelle longue de quatre pouces ou enuiron, quarree et bien tranchante, enfilee de bon fil en trois on quatre doubles, de laquelle tu relieras les vaisseaux en la fagon qui s’ensuit: car alors le bee de corbin ne te pourroit seruir. Tu passeras laditte aiguille par le dehors de la playe, a, demy doigt ou plus, a coste' dudit vaisseau, iusques au trauers de la playe, pres l’orifice du vaisseau: puis la repasseras sous ledit vaisseau, le comprenant de ton fil et feras sortir ton aiguille en laditte partie exterieure de l’autre coste dudit vaisseau, laissant entre les deux ehemins de laditte aiguille seulement l’espace d’vn doigt: puis tu lieras ton fil assez serre' sur vne petite compresse de linge en deux on en trois doubles de la grosseur d’vn doigt, qui en gardera que le neud n’entre dedans le chair et l’arresteras seurement. Laditte ligature retire entierement dedans la bouche et l’orifice de la veine ou artere auec lesquelles aussi cachees et couuertes des L’onnose doit Part'es charneuscs adiacentes, se reprend aisement ledit orifice. Je te beaucoup sorcier puis asseurer que iamais apres telle operation on ne voit sortir vne goutte du sang sortant de sang des vaisseaux ainsi liez. Et ne se faut trauailler d'user des sus- des petits vais- djts moyens d’arrester le sang aux petits vaisseaux: pource que aisement il sera supprime'par les astringents (pie nous te ordonnerons cy apres.” I have made these long extracts from Gale and Pare', as both were celebrated Sur- geons of the same period, the former having been with Henry VIII.’s army at Mon- treal in 154-1, and with that of Philip of Spain, our Queen Mary’s husband, at the siege of St. Quintin in 1557 ; and the latter surgeon to Charles IX. and Henry IV. of France. Gale in 1563 speaks of stitching the wounded vein or artery, and leaving one end of the thread to hang out until it falls away as a common practice with him ; but does not advert to either of the methods proposed by Pare' for tying the vessels after amputation, trusting to the potential cautery in preference to “ actual cateriseng yrons, which sore feared the people with the orrror of cauterization, or burning as we call it, that many of them rather would dye wyth the member on, then to abyd the tirreble fyre, by means whereof mauye people peryshed.” (p. 56.) Pare' uses the | actual cautery in 1552, but in 1564 strongly recommends ligatures, but in a very H dilferent and preferable manner than as proposed by Gale. And among the reasons he fit assigns for such recommendation, lie says :—“ On ne vit oneques de six ainsi cruelle- ii ment traittez, eschapper deux, encore estoient ils long temps malades, et mal-aisement u estoient les playes ainsi bruslees, menees a consolidation, pource que vne telle vstion i>. faisoit des douleurs si vehementes que les malades tomboient en fieure, en spasme et »• autres mortelles accidents auec ce que le plus souuent l’escare cheut suruenoit nouueau t flux de sang qu’il falloit encor estaneher auec les cauteres actuels et potentiels, lesquels k repetez consumoient vne grande quantite de chairs et autres parties nerueuses. Pour ■ laquelle deperdition les os demeuroient puis apres nuds et decouuers. Ce qui a rendu - ii plusieurs la cicatrisation impossible, aiants tout le reste de leur vie garde vn ulcere au lieu du membre couppe, qui leur ostoit le moyen de se pouuoir seruir d’vn membre fait artificiellement.’’ (chap. xvii. p. 115.) From a comparison of these accounts it must be admitted that, although to Pare must be assigned the just praise of having reintro- duced the employment of the ligature as now used, (for it is of little consequence whether he was aware of Celsus having recommended it or not, he has made it so completely his own,) yet Gale’s practice of tying vessels, though in a different manner, was earlier given to the world than Park's, and his horror of the actual cautery not less great, al- : though less picturesquely described. The ligature of arteries, as recommended by Pare', was very slowly received by t Surgeons, and even so late as 1761 it appears in the fourth edition of Sharp’s ( ritual Enquiry into the present state of Surgery, that the forceps were not used, but Pare’s i second method with the needle employed, and in many parts of Europe not even that, whilst in France some of the Surgeons at least thought it not applicable in all cases, and sometimes used it, and at other only lotions of vitriol or of alum. The tenaculum, now in common use by some practitioners in preference to the forceps, i was invented by Bromfield, Surgeon of Guy’s Hospital.—J. F. S.] VOL. I. V