675 MERCURIAL DISEASE. party. It must not, however, be forgotten that Hunter, from experiment, asserted that the secretion of secondary sores is not infectious, and Ricord says that his own experi- ments on the same point have confirmed Hunter’s statement. The possibility of in- fection from secondary syphilis would therefore seem more than doubtful; and I am rather disposed to believe, that in cases where it is said to take place, that the male patient purposely deceives his medical attendant with a false history of his ailment or of the correctness of his moral conduct after marriage, than that two so able and attentive ob- servers as John Hunter and Ricord should be in error. Be this however as it may, the consequences to the female and her children are so distressing and so serious, that in my opinion an infected person ought not to be allowed intercourse with his wife ; or should at least be warned of the results which, according to the opinions of some able and experienced Surgeons, might by possibility accrue from such intercourse.—J. F. S.] Hey, William, Facts illustrating the effects of the Venereal Disease on the Child in utero ; in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. vii. p. 541. Evanson, Richard, T., M.D. and Maunsei.l, Henry, M.D., A Practical Treatise on the Management and Diseases of Children. Dublin, 1838. Second Edit. 8vo. Lawrence, William, Lectures on Surgery; in Lancet, 1829-30, vol. i. Bacot, John, A Treatise on Syphilis. Colles, A., M.D., On the Venereal Disease, London, 1837. 8vo. Beatty, M.D., A Letter from, on a species of Premature Labour, &c.; in Trans- actions of the Dublin College of Physicians, vol. iv. p. 31. VIII.—OF THE MERCURIAL DISEASE. Alley, G., Essay on a peculiar Eruptive Disease arising from the exhibition of Mercury. Dublin, 1804. Moriarty, Description of the Mercurial Lepra. Dublin, 1804. Spens and Mc Mullin ; in Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journ., No. I. and V. Pearson, John, On the Effects of various Articles of the Materia Medica in the Cure of Lues Venerea. London, 1809. Mathias, A., The Mercurial Disease. London, 1819. Carmichael, Richard, An Essay on Venereal Diseases. Dublin, 1825. 8vo. Second Edition. Bacot, John, A Treatise on Syphilis. London, 1829. 8vo. Bateman, Thomas, M.D., A Practical Synopsis of Cutaneous Diseases. London, 1813. 8vo. Second Edition. . Lawrence, William, Lectures on Surgery in Lancet, 1829-30. vol. i. Wendt, S. C. W., De abusa Hydrargyri. Hafniie, 1823. Heim, E. M. A., Inaug. Abhandl. fiber die Mercurial Krankheit. Erlangen, 1835. Dietrich, G. L., Die mercurial Krankheit in alien ihnen Formen, geschichtlicli, pathologisch, diagnostisch, und therapcutisch dargestellt. Leipzig, 1837. 859. The immoderate and too long continued use of mercury, especially with improper dietetic treatment, and catching cold, produces a peculiar cachexy, which has been first well described within the last thirty years, as the Morbus Mercurialis (1), Erethismus Mercurialis (2), Erythema, and Exanthema Mercuriale, &c. This disease has various stages, and appears, 1. As an eruption which generally occurs on suddenly catching cold, during the use of mercury ; it is preceded by a feeling of great debility, oppressive sensation at the pit of the stomach, and frequent horripilations, followed by increased heat, quick pulse, head-ache, nausea, and thirst; then pale, or dusky-red vesicles, rarely a purple-red eruption without vesicles, or similar to nettle-rash, appear most commonly first, on the