OF THE LOWER JAW. 529 is noticed, as also a space behind the angle of the jaw, immobility of the condyle and crepitation in the motions of the jaw which are accompanied with pain. 603. The setting of this fracture is easy, but in double or oblique fractures it is very difficult to keep the broken ends in their proper place; deformity and displacement of the natural position of the teeth commonly i remains. The setting is performed by pressing back the coronoid process with the fore finger of one hand and with the other, placed on the inside of the jaw, the horizontal branch is drawn forwards and in oblique fracture somewhat upwards. The proper range of the teeth and the evenness of the lower edge of the jaw certify the setting. When the displacement of the ends of the fracture is but slight, it is sufficient to press the under jaw against the upper in order to effect the setting. 604. To keep the ends of the fracture in their places the middle of a long pad should be placed beneath the chin and the ends brought over the crown of the head, where they are to be fastened together ; a similar long pad is carried over the front of the chin to the back of the head, and there also fastened. Over these compresses a simple halter-bandage is aoolied. A simple head-cloth is also advisable, by which the motions of the lowre jaw in wide opening of the mouth, are prevented. In oblique fractures, a piece of cork provided with a furrow, may also be placed between the teeth of the not displaced part of the lower and the upper jaw, and the de- pressed fractured end should be properly raised with a bandage; this is, however, unnecessary, and may easily endanger a deformed union. In double fracture the double halter, or Schreger’s bandage, may be applied to the jaw. A graduated compress is to be placed on the under side of the jaw, and over it a hollow pasteboard splint will increase the solidity 1 of the apparatus. I 605. In fracture of the neck of the jaw-bone the broken ends are to be brought together, the under part to be pressed forwards, or so that a piece t of cork maybe placed between the hinder grinding teeth ; or a graduated i compress may be laid behind the angle of the jaw, and the turns of the : halter-bandage made thereon. 606. The apparatus must be re-applied at the tenth or twelfth day, unless previously loosened ; then at the twenty-fifth, (when union has generally taken place,) and at the fortieth when it is perfectly firm. During the cure the patient must avoid all talking and chewing, he must be fed on thin food, and be careful not to lie at night on the injured side. Some time also after the cure chewing hard food must be avoided. Compound fractures of the lower jaw must be treated after the general rules. 607. Special contrivances for the cure of fracture of the lower jaw, whereby it is pressed up against the upper jaw, and the mouth not kept closed, have been recommended by Ruetenich, Kluge, (a) Bush (5), and IIartig (c), but they are less suitable than the apparatus just described, ! as they rarely fit completely, irritate the mouth, and render the patient j very uncomfortable. Wai.lner((/) applies, (as did previously IIirrocRATES, Ryff, and others,) in fracture • (a) Branco, Dissert, de Fractura Mandilmloe. 1 Berol. 1823. 1 0 London Medical and Physical Journal, Nov. 1822. VOL. I. (c) Journal von Graefe und von Walther vol. v. p. 346. PI iii. (d) Magazin der Ausland, Literatur von Julius und Gerson, Mayand June, 1826, p. 519. 2 M