OF THE TIIIGII-BONE. 797 happens very rarely, because it can only occur, when the thigh is so near the trunk and the other thigh, that it is scarcely possible. Boyer considers this as secondary, after dislocation of the head of the thigh bone upwards and backwards, when the thigh is much bent and adducted. In this dis- location, the head of the bone lies on the m. pyriformis, between the edge of the bone which forms the upper part of the ischiatie notch, and the sacro-ischiatic ligaments, somewhat above the mesial line of this cavity. It is very difficult to distinguish this dislocation, because the length and direction of the limb are but little changed. The extremity is ordinarily half an inch shorter; the trochanter is behind its usual place; the head of the thigh-bone can only be felt in emaciated persons, when the thigh-bone is brought forwards as far as possible ; the knee and foot are turned inwards, though, however, not so much, as in the dislocation upwards and back- wards ; when the patient stands he only touches the ground with his toes; the knee is somewhat projected and slightly bent; the limb is fixed in its position. 1070. In the dislocation upwards and inwards, the head of the thigh- bone gets beneath Poupart’s ligament, upon the horizontal branch of the share-bone; it is rare, and produced by violence which thrusts the thigh backwards and the pelvis forwards; for instance, a careless step with the foot into a hole, in which case the upper part of the body is bent backwards. The diagnosis is easier than in any other dislocation of the thigh. The limb is fixed in strong extension, abduction, and great rotation outwards; it is about an inch shorter, the trochanter is nearer the spine of the hip- bone and less prominent; the head of the bone is felt on the horizontal branch of the share-bone; the buttock is flattened and stretched ; the vessels of the thigh are twisted inwards, and pulsate distinctly, and even perceptibly, to the eye. In every attempt to bend the thigh, or draw it inwards, severe pain is produced. In old dislocations of this sort it has been found, that the form of the head of the thigh-bone, lying between Poupart’s ligament and the sliare-bone, is changed, that it is more flat- tened, and around the neck a kind of bony collar is produced. Upon the distinguishing characters between the dislocations of the thigh and fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone see par. 671. 1071. As regards the prognosis of dislocations of the thigh, they are usually not accompanied with any unfavourable symptoms like those of the shoulder-joint, as after the reduction is completed, in general, the inflam- mation and swelling soon subside; however, in uncommon cases the in- flammation runs on to suppuration, and causes the patient’s death (a). The reduction of these dislocations is more difficult than all others, espe- cially in robust persons. The dislocations inwards and downwards, and inwards and upwards, are generally more easily reduced than that back- wards and upwards. The earlier reduction is attempted, the more quickly is it effected. At what time the reduction of a neglected dislocation is still possible, is probably very different, in different persons, as in some cases it can be effected after some months, but in others, after several weeks is impossible. To what degree the movements of the thigh are hindered by an old dislocation, has been already mentioned, in speaking of the several kinds. 1072. As the reduction of dislocation of the thigh always finds consi- (n) Astley Cooper, above cited, p. 7.