OF POISONOUS SNAKE-BITES. 359 a mixture of salt and gunpowder, sometimes either of these articles separately, was laid upon the part. Over the -whole was applied a piece of the bark of the white walnut. At the same time some one, frequently more than one, of the vegetables which were mentioned to me, were given internally, either in decoction or infusion, along with large quantities of milk.” (p. 102.) The treatment of these cases in India, during Russell’s time, was the celebrated Tanjore pill, of which the following is the composition, as given by Duffin :—White arsenic, roots of vellinavi, kernels of nervalam, pepper, quicksilver, of each an equal part; the quicksilver is to be rubbed with the juice of the wild cotton (Asclepius <jiyan- ted) till the globules become invisible. The arsenic being first levigated, and the other ingredients reduced to a powder, are then added, and the whole is beaten up together, with the juice of the wild cotton, to a consistence fit to be divided into pills. If a person is bit by a cobra de capello, mix one of the pills with a little warm water and give it to the patient. After waiting a quarter of an hour, should the symptoms of infection increase, give two pills more; should these not sufficiently counteract the poison, another pill must be given an hour after. This is generally found sufficient. The wound should be dilated, and the warm liver of a fowl applied to the part. * * * For the bite of less poisonous snakes, one pill every morning for three days is sufficient. The patient ought to keep a regimen for six days, eating only congee (rice water) and rice, or milk and rice. He should abstain from salt, and his drink may be warm water. Sleep is to be prevented for the first twenty-four hours. The pills generally occasion a nausea and purging, but seldom in a violent degree.” (pp. 74, 5.) The favourable report on the use of the Tanjore pill, of which arsenic is the principal remedy, led Ireland (a) to employ Fowler’s solution, which contains half a grain of arsenic in a drachm of the solution, in cases which had been bitten by the great lance- headed viper of Martinique, ( Trigonocephalus lanceolatus, Oppel.) Persons previously bitten had died, without using this medicine, between six and twelve hours after receiv- ing the wound. This practice was successful in four or five cases. Russell says, that “ the poisons of all the venomous serpents he has examined are in colour and consistence very much alike at the moment of emission through the fangs. They differ somewhat in colour from each other, but not more than the poison of each individual is found occasionally to differ from itself. The poison is somewhat muci- laginous when first emitted, but becomes quickly more so when exposed to the air; while its colour, from pale yellowish white, changes to yellowish; and when dry, it resembles a yellow flaky resin. This resin, when long kept, grows much darker in colour, and is not easily soluble; but when recent or in the intermediate degrees of harden- ing, it mixes readily enough with water or with spirits.” Russell applied less than one drop of the poison of the cobra de capello (Naja tripudians, Merr.) to his tongue, but after remaining ten minutes, it was insipid and inert like pure water. He was neither sensible at first of any saline taste, nor, though strictly attentive, could he perceive any subsequent effect whatever on the tongue. This experiment was repeated more than once, at different times, invariably with the same result. The poison of the katuka retula poda ( Vipera elegans, Mf.rr.) was tried, with precisely the same success. Of a quantity which was emitted through the fangs, he rubbed almost two drops, perfectly recent, on his tongue and palate; but was neither sensible of pungency, nor of any con- sequence from it, more than from the poison of the cobra de capello.” The recent poison of snakes applied to the eyes of chickens caused no visible irritation, nor was it followed by inflammation. The recent poisons of the cobra de capello and katuka rekula poda, under the usual trials, gave no indication of possessing either an acid or alkaline quality.” (PP- 86, 7.) Barton mentions the following very curious observation, which is well worthy re- membrance :—“ It often happens that the poison of the rattlesnake, like that of the mad dog, being merely thrown into muscular, tendinous, ligamentous, or cellular parts, is deposited there some time without being absorbed into the mass of blood. In these cases the success of the plan which 1 have described will, probably, be very great. *V hatever preference may be given to the use of the knife or of the caustic over that of scarification, the application of the blister, &c., I think there can be very little doubt of the propriety of employing the ligature. I am convinced, indeed, that on the use of I this simple application the success of our cure, or to speak more properly, of our preven- tion, will in a great measure depend.” (p. 107.) Upon the bite of the rattlesnake, compare Re'vue Mc'dicale, May, 1827. p. 298-321. I 356. The bite of a rabid beast, specially of a dog, wolf, fox, cat, some- times even of some others, poison the wound with a peculiar contagion, » (ii) Above quoted.