420 TREPANNING. then raised, the groove cleared, with a pencil of charpie, from the saw- dust, (an assistant purifies the trepan with a brush,) and an opening is to be made by the tirefond (2) into the pit formed by the pyramid ; the trepan is then to be replaced in the former groove, and its pyramid having been retracted, is to be brought into the vertical position, and to be again moved round quickly, the left hand pressing on the disc till it is presumed to have penetrated the diploe. The crown is to be again removed and cleaned by an assistant, and after the track has been again cleared of saw-dust, its depth throughout the whole extent is to be ascertained by a chisel-shaped probe, or by a feather stem cut for the purpose. The trepan is to be again replaced ; the pressure is to be somewhat moderated, the trepan to be turned less quickly, and more to that side where the groove is shallower. The trepan is to be again raised and cleaned, and the depth of the groove examined. If it have not yet penetrated the bone, the crown must be again set on, turned round a few times, with slight pressure, then removed, and the groove again examined. Thus is it proceeded with till the groove lias penetrated in several places, and the piece of bone seems movable when pressed with the nail of the left fore finger. In perforating the inner table of bone a peculiar crackling is heard. [(1) The trepan which was employed by Surgeons of the olden time, both in this country and in France, but which, from Chelius’s directions for its use, does not appear out of date in Germany, consists of a crown and pyramid or pin, much like that of the trephine now in common use, except that the stem of the instrument is not fixed in a ci’oss handle, but in a stock similar to that used by carpenters in working a centre-bit, and turned round spindle-ways like it. The improved instrument of which Chelhjs speaks has the stem work through an arch, of which the legs rest on the skull and render the movement of the crown more steady. The trepan has long since been laid aside in this country. It is highly objectionable and dangerous, on account of the utter incapa- bility of nicely moderating the pressure necessary for its use, and which is easily managed by the trephine. (2) The tirefond is a kind of steel screw, with a single or double thread at one end like the screw point of a gimblet, and a ring handle at the other. Its point being put in the pit formed by the pin of the trepan, is turned round till it is fixed firmly in the trepanned piece of bone, which is then lifted out by pulling up the ring handle. This instrument, as well as the trepan, has been entirely out of use for many years in this • country; the trephined bone being raised by the elevator presently to be described.— J. F. S.] 441. In perforation with the hand-trepan {trephine), it is to be so held, after the pyramid or pin has been properly pushed down and fastened, with the right hand, that the thumb is placed on the one, the middle, ring, and little finger on the other side of the handle, and the fore finger along, i the stem touching the top of the crown : the pyramid is to be fixed on the middle of the piece of bone to be perforated, and the crown moved, after being brought into a vertical direction, corresponding with the surface of the bone, in alternately contrary semicircular turns, with the upper and fore arm held steady, and the hand alone moving, till a sufficiently deep groove is formed for the further direction of the trephine. The instrument is then to be withdrawn, cleaned, the pyramid retracted, a sufficient opening, made with the tirefond, and afterwards is to be managed as has been already mentioned in reference to the arch-trepan. [The trephine has with us entirely superseded the trepan, and except in rare cases of fracture with depression, or in making openings into the skull when no depression exists, has itself also given place to Hey’s saw. The pyramid, pin, or, pivot, is made to travel up and down in the stem of the English trephine, and is capable of being fixed with a screw at any length within the cavity of the instrument, or projected beyond the plane of its cutting edge. In commencing the operation the pin is fixed projecting