GO vol. iv. vol. xxiii. p. 237, 1840. MORTIFICATION FROM PRESSURE ; says, that “ coagulation of the blood is, after his observations, the essential character of incipient arteritis,” (p. 394;) or with Dupuytren (a), who says that, in such cases, “ Pa- thological anatomy always shows the existence of inflammation of the arterial tunics. This phlogosis may doubtless occur in arteries W'hich are unhealthy, indurated, ossified, as often met with in old persons; but it appears also in the arteries of young people without trace of these disorders. In a word, it may coincide with the calcareous incrus- • tation of the vessels and with age, or it may be independent of both conditions.” (p. 484.) I have seen but a single case of arteritis, which happened in a young man of twenty years. 11 differed from Brodie’s case in not having exhibited the slightest appearance of gangrene, and, on dissection, the brachial artery was found partially obliterated, and shrivelled to a narrow cord, precisely as if a ligature had been applied upon the subclavian artery. Although, in this case, the pulse at the wrist ceased suddenly, yet the circulation was undoubtedly carried on by the collateral circulation, and thus gan- grene prevented. I shall refer to this case again when considering inflammation of the coats of arteries, (p. 74.)—J. F. S. A most remarkable case is given by Solly (6) of gangrene, which commenced in a boy about three years old, and, gradually spreading from limb to limb, destroyed him when four years old. In four months from its commencement the disease had amputated the left foot above the ankle, as also two toes of the right foot, and upon the right calf and knee were hard gangrenous spots. The right fore arm was cut off through the middle of the ulna, and the radius had dislocated itself from the elbow joint; the whole of the left fore arm and part of the upper arm were gangrenous. There was a dusky spot on the nose upon the scar left by a gangrenous spot which had formed previously, and se- parated. In the sixth month the left leg, which had become quite gangrenous, was thrown off below the knee, and the toes of the right foot had also sloughed off. The right ulna had come off at the elbow-joint, and the left arm had amputated itself through the middle of the upper arm. The gangrene on the nose had reappeared, but been checked. For a short time there seemed a little rest in the gangrenous process; but it was again set up, and by the twelfth month the left leg had become gangrenous to the middle of the thigh, and all the soft parts separated, leaving the bone bare. The right leg had mortified to the middle of the calf, and the right foot separated above the ankle. The stumps of both arms had become gangrenous up to the shoulders. In the begin- ning of the following month the child died. Careful examination of the body did not show any organic disease ; but the child had become much emaciated. The stumps of the arms had nearly healed; but in the lower limbs the bones protruded, and the cure was less perfect.] 31. Mortification from continued pressure, or from constant lying upon one part (gangrcenct ex decubitu) occurs more readily, the weaker the patient, and the less cleanly and smooth the bed is. On those places where the pressure acts, most commonly, therefore, on the sacrum and coccyx, 1 the great trochanters, the shoulder-blades, elbows, heels, and so on, a limited redness appears, with pain more or less severe, the skin is de- stroyed by ulcerative absorption, and a dry slough is formed, which is dis- i solved in the suppuration set up around it. Should the pressure continue, i and the general weakness be great, (for example, in typhus fever,) the de- I struction spreads very extensively, and in many cases death is thereby I accelerated or even caused. 32. A special mention is required of that mortification which, in certain I localities, in very wet and humid years, when the rye is infected with the blight, called “ cockspur,” occurs in the lower extremities, with a constant f sensation of itching, great burning, and a darting pain, sometimes with redness and swelling, consequent on which the parts become cold, senseless, black, mummy-like, and shrivelled up. In rare cases this disease has I been also observed in the upper extremities. During the course of the J disease general symptoms, fever, delirium, and so on frequently arise, i Oftentimes the mortification becomes defined and the part is thrown off, i and often it spreads up to the hip-joint. («) Legons Orules de Clinique Chirurgicale, (/>) Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xxii. p. 253, 1339;