668 ZITTMANN AND WEIN HOLD’S TREATMENT. cure by the prescribed diet. Frequently the pills are thrown up and then they must be again taken in divided doses. Nausea, disposition to vomit, and even actual vomiting, during the use of the decoction subside, if a smaller quantity of the decoction be drunk at one time. I have ob- served, in one instance, severe pain in the belly every time after taking the weak decoction, and frequently a gentle, not very lengthened sali- vation, has been noticed («). The Arabian treatment and dry diet resembles that with Zittmann’s decoction (b). Here also must be mentioned the plan of treatment proposed by Dzondi (c), in which the patient commences with one-fifth of a grain of sublimate in four pills, taken immediately after dinner; from day to day the medicine is increased by two additional pills, so that on the last day of the cure, which occupies twenty-seven days, thirty pills, or 1^ grain of the sublimate, is taken at a dose. All this time the patient lives moderately, keeps himself warm, and drinks sarsaparilla tea. If the cure be disturbed by salivation, after that has been relieved, the number of pills still remaining must be continued. If mercury have been previously immoderately or irregularly used, sul- phur should be first employed internally or in baths. According to Kluge(d), Dzondi’s treatment is not to be depended on; in certain cases, however, especially in ulcers of the bones and nose, it is very efficacious. 855. In reference to the efficacy of the friction-cure, of Zittmann’s decoction and of Weinhold’s treatment, I must undoubtedly give the preference- to the former over the latter, which, according to my ex- perience, more frequently checks than actually cure the disease ; often in- deed it cannot be borne, and may often continue injurious and scarcely to be gotten rid of disturbance in the functions of the alimentary canal, which depend on an usual and peculiar treatment. The friction cure and Zittmann’s decoction, in general, act more surely ; but the latter is con- nected with by far less inconvenience to the patient, on which account, according to my present experience, I prefer Zittmann’s decoction to the friction cure, and only employ the latter when the former has been in- efficient. The effect of this decoction I have proved, not merely in all forms of syphilis, but also in other inveterate disease. Compare my above-mentioned statement, in which I have endeavoured to contradict the opinions put forward by Neumann (e) against the friction-cure, and in favour of Weinhold’s mode of treatment. What is the result of Weinhold’s treatment, when, from the coming on of salivation, it be not determined to interrupt the cure, (which Weinhold and Neumann expressly enjoin,) I cannot from my own experience determine. (а) Chei.ibs, Ueber die Amvendung des Decoct. Zittm. im Vergleiche mit anderen gegen inver- terirte Lustseuche und andere Krankheiten empfohlenen Beliandlungsweisen; in Ileidelb. klinisch. Annal. vol. i. pt. i. p. 116. Hacker; in Ileidelberger klinischen Annalen ; in Rust’s Magazin, vol. xxxix. pt. i. p. 1.—vol. lxvii. pt. ii. p. 203. Habel, Ueber die Heilkraft des Zittmann De- codes in seciindarer Syphilis; in Med. Jahrbiichern des osten Staates. Neue Folge, vol. ix. 1835. Martius, Einige Bemerkungen iiber das De- coctum Zittm anni ; in Heidelberg med. Annalen, vol. ix. pt. iii. p. 418. (б) S Gandy, Apercu sur l’eflicacite du Traite- ment dit arabique dans les Maladies Syphilitiques ou anciennes ou degenerees. Montpellier, 1827. Klaatsch ; in Rust’s Magazin, vol. xvii. p. 177. Schaffer, Dissert, sur l’emploi du Mercure Sublime et le Traitement arabique dans les Maladies Syphilitiques. Strasbourg, 1825. (c) Dzondi, Neue zuverlassige Heilart der Lustseuche. Halle, 1832. Second Edit.—F. A. Si- mon, jun., Ueber den sublimat. und die Inunctions- kur, mit besonderer Beziehung auf Dzondi’s neue zuverlassige Heilart von Lustseuche, und die LouvRiER-RusT'sche Inunctionskur. Hamburg, 1826. Bartels einige Bemurkungen iiber Dzondi's neue Heilart der Lustseuche ; in vonGraEfe und von Walther's Journal, vol.ix. p. 513. (d) Bericht iiber die, auf hoberen Befehl mit der DzoNDi’schen Heilinethod gegen die Lust- seuche in dem Berl. Oharite-Krankenhause ange- stellten Kurversuclie und deren Resultate, nebst Gutachten iiber die Methode selbst; in Rust’s Magazin, vol. xxvi. p. 211. (e) Vergleichung der LouvRiER’schen und WEiNHOLD’schen Methode, das Quecksilber anzu- wenden ; in von Graefe und von Walther’s Journal, vol. ii. p. 405. Wittcke, Dissert, de Weinholdii Hydrargyrum adhibendi methodo. Berol. 1821. Neumann,iiber die Lustseuche ; in von GraEfk und von Walther's Journal, vol. xvii. p. 1. IIeinze, Ueber die Bekampfung der Lustseuche durch eine modificirte Inunctionskur, u. s. w. Wien, 1836.