42 PUS, forsaken by the organizing principle, degenerate in their organic formation, and their organic chemical blending; whilst those in contact with the living surfaces of the body, proceed in their further organization: thus, by the death of the former, is given life to the latter (mors vita origo.) “ Upon the free exudation-corpuscles first appear delicate radiating lines, which divide their periphery into six or eight (rarely more) segments : these lines become more de- cided, and the capsule appears as if torn, though without any solution of continuity. In some even the nucleus seems inclined to break into from two to four pieces. At the same time the originally reddish-yellow fluid fades, the divided segments of the capsule and the divisions of the nucleus, which were distinctly linear, become rounded into co- hering granules, whilst the now perfectly formed pus is of a greenish colour. The true pus-corpuscles thus formed, are still here and there connected together, (the pus-mem- brane,) like the cells of tessellated epithelium; are specifically heavier than the serum- appear under the microscope somewhat larger than lymph-exudation and blood-cor- puscles (from to -jjg of a Paris line in diameter;) are of a yellowish colour, and min- gled with oil-drops and albuminous granules, with which last they are commonly be- sprinkled, and which are by many considered as integral parts of the corpuscles, they overlooking the usual large granules which in their connexion with the pus-corpuscles are so attached that the latter at first appear as lenticular, or cake-like quilted cushions. Subsequently the granules separate still more, so that the corpuscles are resolved into their elements; old pus therefore consists for the most part of these more or less isolated granules. * * * The younger the pus, the greater the quantity of fibrin (transition- cytoblasts) and the older it is, the more fat does it generally contain. Thus, in the de- generation of its organization, from its commencement to its perfection, is it remarkably opposed to chyle, in reference to its organic and chemical relations.” (pp. 47, 48.) “False Pus. Secreted and exuded fluids very frequently occur in man and beasts, which without closer—that is, microscopic—examination, may be taken for pus, because they look very like it, and chemically often do not differ much from it, and yet are produced in another way, and are of different nature. On the contrary, substances are deposited and thrown out which seem very different from pus, and yet are either true pus, or very nearly allied to it. “It is the above-described fluid alone, the true or proper, the so-called laudable pus, which is a necessary condition of reproduction: therefore I call it reproductive pus; and, as the corpuscles usually consist of seven granules, they may also be called septengran- | ular pus-corpuscles. Previous to their division, these corpuscles always belong to the nucleated corpuscles; they are degenerating cytoblasts. In this constant quality of the true pus-corpuscle is the most certain criterion for distinguishing pus from other more • or less similar fluids; and that fluid -which contains no such corpuscles, or with them any corpuscles or deposit which do not exist in the pus of healthy wounds, is either not pus, or not pure pus.” (pp. 53, 54.) The following are Travers’s views on the constitution of pus:—“ Pus, I believe,” I says he, “ to obtain its characters of consistency, opacity, and colour after exudation, and i to consist of the superfluous or waste lymph which has been separated during the adhesive stage from the mass of blood held in solution by the serum, being thus a i chemical modification of the constituents of the liquor sanguinis; in short, the latter t fluid deprived of its original character and property of spontaneous coagulation. Pus ( particles resemble those of lymph seen in the vessels uuder inflammation, except that i they appear broken down and partly dissolved in their texture instead of compact and of ■ less regular figure; and, if when suspended in a drop of fluid, compared with the elastic f| blood-corpuscle, to which they bear no analogy whatever, utterly inert and devitalized. I We never see pus in the blood-vessels but in fatal phlebitis, and, if introduced into the i circulation by injection, it is destructive to life. Although, therefore, a clean-wiped i granulating surface soon presents a covering of pus, it is exuded as a colourless fluid fl of a more dense and unctuous consistence than serum. Its appearance is simultaneous * with the disappearance of the lymph-particle from the veins, the suppurative action being determined, or, in other words, the separation of the proper lymph-particle put < an end to by its sufficient deposit in granulation, and the inflammatory nisus still pre- u vailing from the continuance of the irritation, for no imperfect state can be perpetuated; H the superabundant lymph-particle, at no time coloured, along with the permanent fluid fc or serum of the blood, is strained off through the pencils, forming the terminal loops of d the granulation. Thus is obtained the twofold purpose of relief to the loaded capillary I circulation, and a bland and homogeneous protecting fluid for the granulation during (I the period of its growth up to that of final organization. When the rudimental fibrin I is no longer needed for the new structure, it is used, as in nature all remnants are, for s