802 CONGENITAL DISLOCATION advisable to bind the thighs together above the knees, and to keep the patient at rest, and on his back in bed. He is to be treated generally and locally on the antiphlogistic plan, according to circumstances, and allowed to get up and walk, when the pain lias entirely ceased, which usually happens towards the twenty-fifth or thirtieth day. 1080. Congenital dislocation of the thigh, outwards and upwards, into the external iliac pit, (Luxatio Femoris congenital) mentioned formerly by Hippocrates, and more perfectly described by Palletta («), was first carefully described by Dufuytren (b), and I have, up to the present time, had opportunity, in more cases, to convince myself of the correct- ness of his description. It is distinguished from all other dislocations, espe- cially from spontaneous dislocation, in that, 1, it ordinarily occurs in both hips; of the nine cases, however, which I have seen, in four the disloca- tion was only on one side (c) ; 2, it is not preceded by any symptoms of coxalgy ; and 3, it is usually first noticed in the first attempts the child makes to learn to walk, and if the attempt be continued, till the movements become wearisome. The limb in this dislocation is shortened, the head of the thigh-bone is upwards and outwards, the great trochanter projects; almost all the muscles of the upper part of the thigh are contracted to the iliac crest, where they produce, around the head of the bone, a sort of cone, the base of which is formed by the hip-bone, and its point directed towards the great trochanter; the tuberosity of the haunch-bone is freed from its muscles, and is almost completely uncovered; the limb is rotated inwards, the heel and the bend of the knee stand outwards, and the point of the toe and the knee inwards ; the thighs are directed obliquely from above downwards, and from without inwards, and this obliquity becomes greater, the older is the patient and the broader the pelvis; hence arises the dispo- sition of the thighs to cross each other below; the upper inner part of the thigh forms where it is connected with the pelvis, a sharp inward pro- jecting angle ; the whole limb wastes, especially at the upper part. rl he motions of the limb are very much restricted, especially abduction and rotation; the lower limbs are very backward in proportion to the per- fectly developed upper parts of the body, which is the more remarkable as the jielvis is very broad, and not interfered with in its development. The upper part of the body inclines very much backwards; on the other hand, the lumbar vertebrce project much forward, the pelvis rests nearly hori- zontally upon the thigh-bones, and these persons touch the ground almost alone with the tips of their feet. When walking, they raise themselves on the tips of their feet, bend the upper part of the body very much towards that limb which still supports the weight of the body, raise the other foot from the ground, and bring, with difficulty, the latter from one side to the other. In this case, it is to be observed, that on the side supporting the weight of the body, the head of the thigh-bone rises up into the iliac pit, and the pelvis descends, whilst, on the other side, the displacement of the bone is lessened. In running and leaping, which for such persons is very laborious, these appearances diminish from the energy of the muscular . contraction. When the person lies horizontally on his back, the diseased limbs may, by pulling and thrusting down, be lengthened and shortened, (<0 Exercitationes Pathologic*, p. 88. loniere, surles Luxations originelles ou congeni* ^ (6) In Repertoire generate d'Anatomie et de tales du Femur. Paris, 1828. , , , Physiologic Pathologique, vol. ii. trimestre in. (c) On the Hip ; noticed in Repertoire . p. 151. Froriep’s Notizen, No. 340, p. 153, and d’Anatomie et de Physiologie Chirurgicales, lb~o Chirurg. Kupfertafeln, pi. clxxx. Caili.aud Bit.- trimestre in. p. 22.