l’HE MATTER OF PRIMARY SORES;—BUBOES. 645 decide on the uncertainty of the experiments, where on the contrary they are of great ■value. “ But if we take some of the secreted matter of a chancre, at the period we have pointed out, and convey it with a lancet beneath the epidermis, see what happens ; in the first twenty-four hours, the puncture, as in cow-pox, reddens; on the second or third day, it swells a little, and presents the appearance of a little papule encircled by a red areola ; on the third or fourth day, the epidermis, raised by a liquid more or less turbid, takes on a form, often vesicular, presenting on its tip a black point, resulting from the dying of the blood of the little puncture; on the fourth or fifth day, the morbid secretion in- creases, becomes purulent, the pustular form is decided, and its depressed tone gives it the navel-like appearance which allies it to the pustule of small-pox. At this period the areola of which the extent and intensity had increased begins to subside or diminish, S especially if the disease have not made progress ; but after the fifth day, the subjacent tissues, which often have not yet been affected, or have been only slightly cedematous, in- filtrate and harden by the pouring out of a plastic lymph which is resistant to the touch, and has the elastic feel of certain cartilages; at last, usually after the sixth day, the pus thickens, the pustule wrinkles, and crusts soon begin to form. If these be not detached, they enlarge at their base, and rising by stratified layers, assume the form of a truncated cone with depressed top. If the crusts be detached, or drop off', an ulcer is found below, seated on a hard base, presenting a ground of which the depth is represented by the whole thickness of the skin, and of which the surface, white, more or less deeply tinged with gray, is formed by a lardaceous, sometimes by a pultaceous matter, or even by a false membrane which cannot be detached by wiping. The edges of the ulcer at this time sharply cut as by a circular punch, are, however, undermined to a greater or less extent, and present under a lens slight indentations and a surface similar to that of the ground ; their edge, the seat of a gorging and hardening corresponding to that of the base, presents a kind of ring of a reddish-brown colour, more or less tinged with violet, and which, more prominent than the neighbouring parts, so raises the edges by turning them a little out, as at first gives a funnel-shaped appearance to these ulcerations.” (p. 85-90.)] 818. Swellings of the Glands (Bubones) in the neighbourhood of the ulcers, are in many cases to be considered as the first symptoms of general syphilis. They are caused by absorption of the venereal poison {idio- pathic buboes) ; but they may also be the consequence of a consensual irritation attacking them (sympathetic buboes.) They appear mostly in the glands of the groins, whilst the primary ulcer still remains on the generative organs, and usually when the inflammation in the ulcers is not very great, the ulcer not making progress or even after it has healed. The patient first feels a tension and pressure in the groin, and a hard painful swelling of one or several glands appears which may be pushed about beneath the skin, or is attached to it. The swelling increases, the skin over it reddens, the pain becomes constant, and febrile symptoms are not unfre- quently set up. The bubo may disperse, but if the pain be severe and throbbing, its passage to suppuration is certain, when the swelling softens at its top, the skin bursts, and an ulcer is produced, with hard everted edges, and its foul bottom often beset with granulations. Burrow- ing of pus and considerable destruction frequently take place. Buboes may even in a very high degree of inflammation and under dangerous in- ternal and external influences run into gransrene. [“The true venereal bubo, in consequence of a chancre, is,” says John Huntf.r, “most commonly confined to one gland. It keeps nearly its specific distance till sup- puration has taken place, and then becomes more diffused. It is rapid in its progress from inflammation to suppuration and ulceration. The suppuration is commonly large for the size of the gland, and but one abscess. The pain is very acute. The colour of the skin where the inflammation attacks is florid red.” (p. 285.) Ricord has ascertained by inoculation that buboes are of seven kinds :—1st, The bubo may be simply inflammatory; a, by propagation of the inflammation, without reference to the particular nature of the primary cause of its production, whether a clap, a chancre, or every other lesion; b, by sympathetic reflection. 2nd, It may be viru-