84 INFLAMMATION, we can produce any effect; and upon these principles most likely rests, in some measure the method of resolution ; for, whatever will lessen the power and disposition will also lessen the effect; and possibly these will likewise lessen the force of the circulation. If the inflammation is attended with considerable action and power, as it were in- creasing itself, then the modes of resolution are to be put in practice; the one by pro- ducing a contraction of the vessels, the other by soothing or lessening irritability, or the action of dilatation. The first, or contraction of the vessels, is produced in two ways ; one by producing weakness, for weakness excites the action of contraction of the vessels; the other by such applications as induce the vessels to contract.” (p. 335.) ] 45. Local Bleeding is more indicated as the inflammation is more simple and active, the redness and swelling greater. Every local blood-letting is connected with a certain degree of irritation which may at once repro- duce an increased influx of blood. This is the more certain when general plethora is present. It is therefore necessary in many cases to employ ge- neral previously to local bleeding. Local blood-letting is performed by leeches, scarifications, and cupping-glasses. Leeches are most commonly employed ; scarifications are restricted to those cases in which the applica- tion of leeches is not possible, as, in the mouth, on the tongue, in the throat, . on the conjunctiva. Cupping is more especially suited to lingering and deep-seated inflammations, inasmuch as, besides the abstraction of blood, it also operates as a powerful derivative on the surface. 46. The employment of cold by the overlaying of cloths dipped in cold water, in water and vinegar, in water cooled by the solution of dif- ferent salts, in solutions of acetate of lead or sulphate of zinc, the appli- cation of ice and snow, is only indicated at the commencent of idiopathic inflammation, when but little swelling has taken place. These means must always be preserved at the same degree of cold. They are specially active in inflammations caused by severe bruises, lacerations, and so on, when there is accompanying weakness of the vessels, and their effect may then be still more increased by the addition of spirituous remedies; for example, brandy, Tiieden’s arquebusade, and so on. [In using ice or freezing mixtures, care must be taken, lest, by their too long continu- ance, the vitality of the part is destroyed, and sloughing of the skin produced, which has occasionally happened.—J.F.S.] 47. Moist warm, remedies are employed in shape of fomentations and poultices, which are made of mucilaginous or mealy substances, from linseed- meal, bread crumbs, oatmeal, bran, marshmallow leaves, emollient herbs boiled with water or milk put into linen bags and laid in such way as at once to cover the whole neighbourhood of the inflamed part. Poultices are preferable to fomentations, as their warmth is retained longer, and they need less frequent renewal. Fomentations are therefore only employed in cases where the part is so sensitive that it cannot bear the pressure of the poultice ; they must also extend over the whole neighbourhood of the inflamed part, and be covered with a dry towel or flannel by which the heat is longer retained. These remedies are especially applicable to large swellings and painful tensions, as, by their relaxing properties, they diminish the resistance of the cellular tissue. If the tension be less, the poultice may be moistened with lead wash. Many inflammations, as gouty and erysipelatous, do not consort with the employment of moist remedies, but only with dry warmth. When the pain is very severe, narcotics, as the fresh hyoscyamus, belladonna, and so on, may be added to the poul- tices. With these moist warm remedies are usually also employed the