HENRY CLINE ON THE 314 insert them here, believing them interesting and valuable, as having been treated with a different view of the operation of the actual cautery to that generally held. I wish, also, to put forward the just claim of my esteemed and skilful master (whose early death removed him from a course of professional usefulness to the great establishment of which he was one of the surgeons, and to the students by whom he was attended, and deprived the profession of one of its most able and upright members) to the re-employment, at least in England, of, in many cases, that invaluable remedy, the actual cautery ; which, like numerous other remedies of Ancient Surgery, had been thrown aside in consequence of its abuse, and of the fondness for new remedies which, in our profession, is by no means uncommon. CASES OF AFTER-BLEEDING IN WHICH THE ACTUAL CAUTERY WAS EMPLOYED, AND CLINICAL OBSERVATIONS THEREON, BY HENRY CLINE THE YOUNGER. Case 1.—G. G., aged twenty-eight years, a post-boy, was admitted into St. Thomas’s Hospital, Jan. 24, 181.*), with a compound fracture of the left leg, caused by the wheel of his carriage passing over it, he having slipped whilst getting on the bar, and fallen beneath. Both bones were broken, but did not protrude through the wound, although they evidently communicated with it. The edges were brought together with adhesive plaster, and, the limb having been placed in splints, an evaporating lotion was applied. On the 21th, as his bowels had not been relieved since his admission, and, as febrile symp- toms had appeared, he was ordered a dose of infusion of senna and sulphate of magnesia immediately, and fever mixture with three drops of laudanum every six hours. Up to this time the case was going on well, but the medicine produced seven or eight stools next day, and at the visit on the 29th he had passed eight or nine more. The result of the necessary frequent movements appeared this morning in the violent inflammation with which the limb had become attacked, accompanied with gangrenous vesication. Chalk mixture, with aromatic confection, was ordered; the purging continued, how- ever, through the night, but on the following day, Feb. 1, it was checked. He had a quick pulse, white but not furred tongue, and good appetite. The leg was now extensively inflamed, and suppuration having commenced, a poultice was applied. Early on the following day his bowels were again disturbed ten or twelve times; sloughy ulceration had occurred above the outer ankle, and on the 4th Feb. another slough upon the instep; and a piece of the shin-bone being loose, was removed. The discharge was very great and offensive. The fever mixture was continued, a grain of opium given nightly, and rhubarb bolus twice a week. The limb, which to this time had been on the side, was now placed on the heel with the knee bent, in a thigh-fracture box, and the poultice continued. This position, however, was not comfortable, and next day the limb was taken from the box, and on the day following put in a leg-fracture box, which suited well. On the 9th Feb. it was thought advisable to improve his living by giving some porter, but, as in the course of the day there was a little bleeding from the wound, it was not continued. He, however, went on well till the 15th, when a patient falling over the bed jarred his leg, and bleeding from the wound ensued to the amount of six or eight ounces. On the 21st a sympathetic abscess in the groin was opened. His constitution continued fighting with the ailment, but another piece of bone was discharged, and the lower end of the shin-bone protruded considerably through the wound. His powers at last began to fail, and amputation, which could no longer be avoided, was performed, on 9th April, above the knee, by my friend Travers, whose patient he had become by the death of the surgeon under whom he had been admitted. Three ligatures were applied, and he went on exceedingly well, improving in health daily, till the evening of the 29th, when a severe arterial bleeding, to the amount of a pint and a half, occurred ; the ligatures had come away on the 16th, but that on the femoral artery still remained. The bleeding continued through the following day, and although the tourniquet had been applied, he lost three pints of blood within the twenty- four hours. A solution of sulphate of copper was applied to the surface of the stump, and cold wet cloths over it, and the bowels cleared with castor oil. May 1, 1 p. m. Free bleeding to the amount of a pint took place; at half-past two, another pint, and smaller quantities continued to flow till 11 a.m., when eight ounces more escaped. Six grains of powdered digitalis were given in divided doses before 8 a.m., which reduced the pulse considerably, but without arresting the bleeding, though he had become very weak and covered with clammy sweat. Ten drops of laudanum every six hours were then ordered, but he continued in a very unsatisfactory condition, and vomited twice in the course of the morning (a). (a) Thus far is from the dresser's and my own notes, but the remainder of the case is from m> master’s narrative.—J. F. S.