COMPOUND FRACTURES. 515 must then be determined whether adhesive plaster is to be continued or poultice applied, which latter is necessary if the wound look angry and sloughy, and must be continued till it shall have become quiet and suppurate kindly, when it may be dressed either with plaster or ointment as may seem most suitable. I have, however, often known the wound unite at once, without a second dressing being needed. I need scarcely observe, that the Surgeon, in the treatment of this injury, should most carefully avoid meddling or prying into what is going on, unless the patient complain of uneasiness or pain. lie should attentively watch from day to day, that the limb retain generally the position in which it was placed ; and if it have become materially displaced, it must be put to rights with the greatest tenderness and care, and such additional pre- cautions taken as to prevent a recurrence. Especial inquiry should also be daily made as to the fitting of the apparatus, so as to guard against any digging in of the edge or corner of a splint or any other part of the appa- ratus ; and if such have commenced, to relieve it, partially loosening the straps so as to insinuate gently with a spatula or probe some lint, wadding, or soft linen. Inattention to this point is often followed by tiresome sores, requiring sometimes the complete removal of* the apparatus, which disturbs the progress of the cure, or even, as I have seen, causes the loss of the limb, and even of life. It must, however, always be remembered, that the great maxim in the treatment of compound fracture is, “ to leave well alone,” instead of attempting to do better.—j. f. s. “The only peculiarity in compound fracture,” says John Hunter, “by which it differs from other lacerated wounds, is the breach of continuity of the bone, which admits of motion in the part where none was intended. This singularity it is which requires a peculiarity in the treatment, as this motion and the operations of nature are in contra- diction to each other. A variety of inventions have been employed to prevent this motion; but the dressing of the wound every day counteracts the effect of every inven- tion that has been thought of, and it is perhaps impossible to dress the sore without motion. [Since Hunter’s time, as has just been shown, many very efficient contrivances have been hit upon, by which this inconvenience, or rather actual ill, is avoided.—J. F. s.] At first the part is generally put into a poultice; but changing this must give consider- I' able movement. Instead of a poultice, I would lay the leg or arm in cloths, doubled several times, and wetted with goulard, and lap them over so as to come into contact. I These should be wetted occasionally, and continued until the inflammation is over and the suppuration takes place. * * * The time of union of a compound fracture is neces- i sarily much longer than that of a simple fracture, from the processes they have to go through, and is very uncertain; but the union of the bones is generally effected long before the external wound is healed up, for whatever retards the cure of the bone retards j also the cure of the sore. When granulations have been formed, and bony union is late in taking place, and the wound is healed up, or nearly so, it should be treated like a E simple fracture in the same circumstances, and gentle pressure is of use, as walking, with a machine to take oft' the weight of the body ; here necessity acts as a stimulus for bony union to form. “ Compound fractures do not always take on the bony union ; but there is never a want of soft union, as there is at times in simple fractures, and therefore new joints are never formed, as they are sometimes when simple fractures do not unite by the first or i< second modes of union.” (p. 509.) With regard to the union of compound fractures, Asti.ey Cooper observes:—“ The : mode of union is ultimately the same, but in the one kind of injury ossific matter is | deposited in cartilage, without a suppurative process, and in the other with it. If you do not procure an union by adhesion, it is brought about by granulation, and in the following way. “ The blood which is at first poured out, in consequence of the division of the vessels of the medullary membrane and the periosteum, instead of being confined in the sur- rounding structures, passes off by the external wound : yet it must be remembered that 2 l 2