203 INFLAMED NAIL MATRIX. hands and feet are then attacked at the same time ; the disease commences sometimes with little sores in the clefts between the fingers or toes, which extend around the origin of the nails ; these separate from their root. The disease ordinarily resists mercurials. 197. In the treatment of this disease internal remedies are to be employed, according to its different causes, and local, according to the degree of irrita- tion ; leeches, soothing applications, baths, and so on, and the foot kept quiet. Astley Cooper recommended a grain of calomel and opium night and morning with decoction of sarsaparilla, and the application of lint steeped in lime water and calomel, (black wash,) covered with oiled silk. If this treatment be ineffectual, the nail with its secreting surface should, according to the opinion of both Dupuytren and Cooper, be removed. According to Dupuytren, the foot is to be steadied, and the diseased toe held with the left hand ; a deep semicircular cut is then to be made with a straight bistoury three lines behind the skin in which the nail is sup- ported, and parallel to its fold. An assistant then holds the toe, whilst the operator raises the flaps from behind forwards with a pair of forceps, and dissects away the skin which produces the nail; if any shreds of nail remain they must be gradually destroyed. This operation is very painful, but of short duration. The toe must be enveloped in pieces of linen perforated and spread with cerate, and a thin bundle of charpie with a compress put upon it; the patient put to bed, and the foot half bent laid on a pillow. The pain subsides some hours after the operation, and, on the third or fourth day, when the bandage is removed, the wound is found covered with good pus, and is then to be simply dressed. The granulations are to be touched from time to time with lunar caustic ; if new shreds of horn are formed, they must be pulled out, and the part producing them be cut away. Usually in from fourteen to eighteen days the patient can return again to his business. The scar is a smooth thick nailless skin, which sometimes acquires a horny consistence. If the disease depends on syphilis, Dupuy- tren treats it with liq. hydr. nitr. I must deny the assertion that in this disease the tearing out the nail and the employ- ment of caustic are of no effect. I have in several instances torn out the nail, and merely employed soothing poultices and bathing, and have effected permanent cure. I, therefore, only have recourse to extirpation when the above treatment has not any per- manent result. [In regard to the treatment of this disease, Wardrop says:—“ The only local treat- ment I have ever seen relieve this complaint has been the evulsion of the nail, and after- wards the occasional application of escharotics to the ulcerated surrace. But even this painful operation in some cases does not succeed, and will seldom be submitted to by the patient; he must, therefore, either continue lame or submit to the removal of the mem- ber. Other surgeons have cut out the soft parts at the root of the nail, an operation equally severe.” In preference, therefore, Wardrop recommends the internal exhibi- tion of mercury, which he has found beneficial, “ in small doses at first, and gradually increased, so as in twelve or fourteen days sensibly to affect the gums. The sores, in general, soon assumed a healing appearanee after the system was in this state, and the bulbous swelling of the joint gradually subsided. The ulcers were dressed with wax oint- ment, so that the effects of the mercury might be watched ; and, after the sore began to heal, a weak solution of the muriate of mercury and escharotics were occasionally used to clean the wound. The mercury was continued till the ulcers were perfectly healed, and, as is generally advisable under such circumstances, it was taken in smaller quanti- ties for some time after the patients were apparently cured.” (p. 138.) Colles, admitting that “ the complete removal of the entire of this diseased matrix does effect the cure in a very short space of time, provided the bone or joint is not diseased, (in which case amputation is inevitable,) and that subsequently rest and simple dress- ing will alone accomplish the healing process, the place of the nail being supplied by