424 AFTER-TREATMENT. as the introduction of lint or charpie will necessarily prevent any union by adhesion, which it is always highly necessary to promote, and which, unless the scalp be very severely bruised, will commonly take place throughout the greater part of the wound. It is much better to lay the flaps down over the aperture in the skull, and apply two or three narrow strips of adhesive plaster so as to keep them in place, with room between to allow the escape of any bloody or serous oozing. No other bandage or compress, or, if any, only a single turn of the former should be applied, so as to avoid the least pressure on the exposed brain ; and if there be much contusion, a thin light bread poultice between muslin, so that the crumbs should not get into the wound, should be applied.—J. F. S.] Merrem, Animadversiones quaedam Chirurgise Experimentis in animalibus factis illus- trate. Giessae, 1810. Walther, Ueber die Wiedereinheilung desbei der Trepanation aus geborhten Knoch- enstiickes; in the Journal fur Chirurgie und Augenheilkunde. Vol. V. Part IV. 448. In the general treatment, after the operation, bleeding, cold appli- cations, purging must be employed, according to circumstances, for the purpose of preventing or putting aside the inflammation ; and the patient must preserve the strictest quiet. 449. The dressings must be replaced once or twice a day, or as often as the discharge renders it necessary. If no particular symptoms come on after trepanning, the dura mater gradually loses its glossy appearance, secretes pus, is covered with pale-red granulations, which gradually rise into the aperture in the bone, unite with the granulations of the bone and of the external parts, and form a tough scar (1). During this proceeding we must endeavour to assist the union of the parts by bandaging, and by gradually passing to a nourishing and strengthening regimen. If, after trepanning, symptoms of pressure and irritation of the brain continue or first arise, it must be ascertained whether the cause be in the wound, in the presence of splinters, or in biliary impurities, for the removal of which a repetition of the operation, or the treatment already laid down, may be necessary. Various are the opinions and notions which have been put forward upon the nature and way in which the opening in the skull is filled up after trepanning or other loss of bone. But the process which nature employs for closing holes in the skull is distin- guished in no respect from the process of regeneration observed in other bones. The dura mater, pericranium, and bone all contribute thereto. A tissue in form of granula- tions is developed from each structure which fills up the aperture, and in which, as in the original formation of bone, bony granules are deposited, unite with each other, and thus either perfectly or partially make up for the loss of the bone. In the latter case, the growth of the bone is for the most part restricted to the circumference, and seems to project from the edge of the aperture and spread to a certain distance from it. Hereon is grounded Larrey and others’ incorrect opinion, that the loss of substance in wounds of the skull depends on length of time and on the thinning of the opposed concentric bony fibres. As the dura mater, pericranium, and bony tissue, according to their secretive ac- tivity and plastic power, contribute to the restoration of the skull-bones; so is it also seen that according as the dura mater is entire, the pericranium not much destroyed, but especially that there is not any great loss of bone, the tissue filling the hole in the bone is, in proportion to the various degrees of plastic activity in young and old persons, either completely or partially converted into actual callus, which is often merely fixed like a pad about the edges of the bone, or has in it no bony growth. In the lat- ter case the edges of the bone are covered with cartilage without a trace of actual bony deposit. In one case which was consequent to the penetration of a stake through the skull into the brain, I observed a cure, although distinct disturbance of the brain re- mained: the patient died long after. Upon this subject refer to Scarpa, De Anatome et Pathologia Ossium Commentarii. Ticini, 1827. sm. fol. Weissrrod, Ueber die Heilung der Trepanationswunden und der Knockenverletzun- gen iiberhaupt; in the Jahrbiichern des arztlichen Vereines in Miinchen, 1831. Part I. van Dockum, D., Dissert. Anat. path, de Cranii regeueratione. Traj. ad Rhen., 1837.