OF THE VERTEBRAE. 773 1009. The turning and movement of the head is, for the most part, effected by the connexion of the second with the first vertebra, by which the latter, with the head, moves round the tooth-like process of the former, as upon a pivot. In forcible bending of the head forwards, the ligament fastening it to the tooth-like process may be torn, so that that process drives directly into the spinal canal. This dislocation always requires very con- siderable violence, and is not very possible in adults, in which case there is previous fracture of the tooth-like process. In rotation of the head, the lateral ligaments of this process are stretched, and if this motion be carried to a dangerous extent, they may be torn, and the process carried beneath the transverse ligament of the first vertebra, into the spinal canal. In children in whom the tooth-like process is still low, and the ligaments less firm, they may be torn by violence when the head is drawn directly upwards. The violent circumstances which can produce dislocation of the second vertebra are, a fall from a great height upon the head, a violent blow, or the fall of a heavy body on the nape, standing and turning about the head, and lifting up children by the head. By the intrusion of the tooth-like process into the spinal canal, pressure and tearing of the spinal marrow are produced, and help is impossible Cases, however, seem to be known, in which only the lateral ligaments of the tooth-like process have been torn by violence and the patient has lived in this state although the process was still held but by the transverse ligament (a). 1010. The connexion of the last five neck vertebra? allows the inclina- tion of the neck forwards, to the side, and a rotatory motion, by which, if carried to a violent extent, the joint-surfaces of the oblique processes get free from contact, are pushed against each other, and cannot be returned to their natural position. Hitherto, this dislocation has been only known on one side, as a consequence of external violence or of strong twisting of the muscles. If at the same time there be severe pain at the seat of dislocation, the head turned towards the opposite side, and fixed in this position, the muscles which move the head are not spasmodically con- tracted, the spinous processes deviate from their natural position, from the seat of dislocation up to the head. Walther (b) lias observed the simul- taneous dislocation of both inferior oblique processess of one of the middle neck vertebra?, and from this case has given the symptoms of such disloca- tions. The head is turned back, and the neck so bent., that the original line forms a curve, of which the convexity is forwards and the concavity back- wards, the front parts of the vertebra are more separated, but the spinous processes at the same time are pushed one upon another. Such dislocation may, as Walther’s case proves, happen without any dangerous effect on the spinal marrow ; but there may occur with it, as well as with every other E injury of the vertebral column, effects on the spinal marrow dangerous to life, as pressure, tearing, inflammation, and the like, and death may be immediate or soon consequent. Dupuytren (c) guards against the possibility of confusing such dislocation with rheumatic affection of the neck, which, from some straining or violent motion of the thead, often comes on with severe pain, impossibility of motion, and the head directed to one side, just as it may occur, under similar circumstances, at any part of the spine (as in the so-called crick in the neck.) 1(a) Deepech,Precis elementaire,&c.vol. iii.p.47. Lawrence, W., On Dislocations of the \ er- (b) Ueber die Verrenkung der Halswirbel nach tebra>; in Med.-Chir.Trans, vol. xiii.p. 387. eigenen Beobactungen ; in his Journal fiir Chi- (c) De la Luxation des V ertebres et des Maladies rurgie und Augenheilknnde, vol. iii. pt. ii. p. 197. qui la simulent; in Lecons Orales, vol. i. p. 397.