WOUNDS 382 [I must confess that the cases of cure of this disease, related as having followed anv one plan of treatment, are by no meaus satisfactory. I have seen opium, tobacco, bleeding, mercury to salivation, and other remedies employed, and also have known of a case or two left without treatment, and the results in all cases the same,—fatal In the ex- tremely few cases which have recovered with one treatment or other, I therefore pre- sume that nature has had more to do with it than the doctor, as she has when the cases have been left alone and recovered. At present our treatment of tetanus is completely empirical and has entirely failed; the only rule upon which we act being to repeat the same plan in the second under which the first case has recovered or been relieved; or, if the treatment have been unsuccessful, to adopt some other practice for the next case. One mode of proceeding, however, must be deprecated, viz., that of plunging the patient into a cold bath, which I once witnessed during my apprenticeship ; the result was, that the patient was almost immediately lifted out—dead.—J. F. S.] Second Chapter.—ON WOUNDS IN PARTICULAR. I.—OF WOUNDS OF THE HEAD. Quesnay, Precis de diverses Observations sur le Tre'pan dans des cas douteux; in the Memoires de l’Acadcmie de Chirurgie, vol. i. p. 188. Dease, William, Observations on Wounds of the Head, &c. Dublin, 1760. 8vo. Pott, P., Observations on the Nature and Consequences of Wound and Contusions of the Scalp, Fractures of the Skull, Concussions of the Brain, &c. London, 1760. 8vo. —and in his Chirurgical Works, edited by Earle. London 1790. 3 vols. 8vo. Smucker, Chirurgische Wahrnemungen. Berlin, 1774. Vol. I. Desault, Treatise on Wounds of the Head; in his (Euvres Chirurgicales par Xav. , Bichat. 3 vols. Paris, 1812. 8vo. Abernethy, Surgical Observations on Injuries of the Head; in his Surgical Works, I vol. ii. p. 1. London, 1815. 8vo. Louvrier, Prize Question. 1st die Durchbohrung der Hunschaale bei Kopfaerlet- zungen nothwendig oder nicht? u. s. w. Wien., 1800. 4to. Mursinna, Prize Question. Ibid. Wien. 1800. 4to. Beck, Beobactungen und Bemerkungen fiber die Kopfaerletzungen ; in Heidelberg, klinischen Annalen. Vol. III. Part III. 4to. Manors, R., A History of the Practice of Trepanning the Skull and the After-treat-1 ment; with Observations on a new Method of Cure. Loudon, 1785. 12mo. Schreger, fiber den Verband bei Schadelverletzungen. Erlangen, 1810. 4to. Suitzer, E., Conspectus instrumentorum quae ad trepanationem adhibita. Accedente novo trepanatiouis apparatu. Hafnite, 1828. 8vo. yon Kern, V., fiber die Verletzungen am Kopfe und die Durchbohrung der Hein- schaalle. Wien. Brodie, B. C., Pathological and Surgical Observations relating to Injuries of the Brain in the Med.-Chir. Trans, vol. xiv. part ii. p. 325. Schindler, II. B., fiber die Indication zur Trepanation, in Chirurgischer Ilinsicbt. Ein Beitrag zur Lehre von den Kopfverletzungen; in Heidelberger klinischen Annalen, vol. viii. p. 1. von Walthf.r, Ph., fiber die Trepanation nach Kopvferletzungen; in the Journal fur Chirurgie u. Augenheilkunde, vol. xvi. p. 1 ; ibid., vol. xvii. p. 1. Gama, Traite des Plaies de tcte et de l’Encephalite, principalement de celle qui leur est consecutive. 2nd Edit. Paris, 1835. Velpeau, De l’Operation du Tre'pan dans les Plaies de tete. Paris, 1834. Compare also the works of Sabatier, Richter, Boyer, Zang, and A. Cooper. 380. Wounds of the Head ( Vulnera Capitis) are among the most difficult j and most important objects of Surgery. Their great, importance depends