117 PRESSURE. protects it from the air and external agents. But, if the burnt part be stripped of its skin, oiled silk carefully fitted is to be first applied. Velpeau (a) recommends strongly the employment of compression in burns, by the application of diachylon plaster spread on strips of cloth, although he very candidly admits that further experience is yet requisite to perfect this mode of cure. He lays great stress on the composition of the plaster; that it should contain neither too large a proportion of grease nor of diachylon, but that there should be a pretty large quantity of litharge, and that it should be of a softish consistence, as the effect is produced not merely by the compression, but varies according to the com- position of the plaster.” (p. 187.) Adopting the four degrees of burns mentioned by our author, Velpeau says that— “1. Iu those of the first degree characterised, by erythema or even tumefaction, ■with itching or slight pain, all modes of treatment succeed, and that it is not, therefore, in this case he hopes particularly to recommend his own. 2. That, in those of the second degree, characterised by the coming off of the epidermis or phlyctmn®, without alteration of the mucous body, the effect of the straps shows better. 3. That, in those of the third degree, that is to say, those where the mucous net-work has been partially destroyed, and in those of the fourth degree, where the skin is completely converted into eschar, his mode of treatment is almost indispensable.” And he then proceeds:—“ In burns of the first degree very good results are obtained from cold water, camphorated brandy, solutions of chlo- rures, and compression especially, but that the efficacy of the latter varies according to its application. Thus, 1 am persuaded that the straps are preferable to simple com- pression, because their employment is easier; because they do not fall off, and may remain a much longer time; that in those of the second degree, cold water, refrigerants, clilo- rurated solutions, especially, may cure, the phlyctama: being first removed; for I hold much with this little operation, without w hich I never employ any application.” (p. 186.) His mode of proceeding is thus described:—“ 1. Strips of cloth spread with diachylon are to be applied upon the injured surface. 2. Indispensable that they should be applied very equally on every part of the wound to prevent strangulation. 3. They must be so applied as not to loosen, and it is therefore necessary they should make at least one turn and a half round the leg. 4. When the regions upon which they are applied are irregular, the hollows must be filled with charpie or cotton ; thus, for instance, if there be a wound on the foot, the sole is to be thus padded, so as to form a rouleau. 5. The strips require different directions according to the form of the limb on which they are applied; thus, on the leg, which forms a cone, they must be placed spirally, commencing from below upwards. 6. Each strap should cover two-thirds of the width of that below it, to render the compression uniform.” (p. 187.) The advantages derived from this plan of treatment are, according to Velpeau’s views, the following:— “ 1. Iu burns of the first and second degree, the application is followed by a more prompt cure, i. e., it is completed after one or two applications at most, or in a day or two. 2. That in those of the third degree three or four applications are needed, which require eight days at most, whilst other modes require fifteen days or a month. 3. That the cure of burns of the fourth degree depend on the depth of the wounds.” (p. 186.) In now proceeding to give an account of my own mode of treatment, I would pre- mise that Henry Earle’s observations on the careless mode in which clothing is too commonly removed after burns and scalds, are well worthy attention. “ It unfortunately happens, too frequently,” says he, “ under these circumstances, that the first thing done is to remove the stocking, which often brings away with it large portions of the cuticle, leaving the inflamed cutis denuded ; for, although in these cases sufficient time may not have elapsed for the occurrence of inflammation and the production of vesications, yet the application of the hot liquid will cause sufficient separation between the dermis and epidermis to cause it to come away on pulling off the stocking. If, instead of this forcible removal of the clothes, such limbs were to be immediately immersed in the coldest water, this most serious result would generally be prevented. The same c othes which were the medium for retaining the heat may be made the readiest means of abstracting it and of diminishing the inflammation ; and, should it become necessary, in consequence of the formation of vesicles, to remove them, they should be cut away with tiie utmost caution, and the vesicles preserved unbroken; by which the serious couse- |lue^|')<jS) which follow the exposure of the highly inflamed cutis, will be prevented.” The justness of these observations, as regards not merely the increase of the patient’s sinterings, but also as to rendering his situation much more dangerous, especially if the ''esications be large, must be sufficiently obvious. It is, therefore, scarcely necessary to ^r'"^UreS’ "I'ra'(;ement Par les Bandelettes de Diachylon ; in Lancette Francaise,