654 PROGNOSIS OF SYPHILIS. may occur on the generative organs, -wherein, by examination, no perceptible disease of the generative organs is observed in the person from whom the disease arises; that farther, as consequences of constitutional ailments, ulcers and other affections may appear which resemble syphilis, so this does not disprove the above stated opinions and we must herewith not forget how frequently the patient purposely deceives the* medical attendant, and that especially all the circumstances which come, into play in con- tagion are still not sufficiently clear, as the existence of primary bubo, without previous affection of the generative organs, which, however, cannot be denied, proves the ex- planation of syphilis from simple irritation without contagion (a) is a mere crazy systematic fancy (b). 826. The same differences observed in primary are noticed also in se- condary syphilis. Experience indeed seems to show that after venereal gonorrhoea and after superficial exfoliation a vesicular eruption, inflam- mation and wound of the throat, and inflammation of the synovial mem- branes take place. After primary ulcers with everted edges without hardness, a pustular eruption, whitish ulcers on different parts of the palate, pains in the joints and gummatous swellings; afterwards eating and scurfy ulcers, tubercular growths on the skin, pustules, ulcers in the throat extending to the nose and destroying its bones, pains in the joints and tophi. After ulcers with lardaceous bottom and everted, hard, callous edges, a vesicular eruption which scales, deep, hollow ulcers in the tonsils, pains in and swellings of the bones. These relations between the primary and consecutive affections are not throughout constant; often is one kind of primary affection followed in the same patient by an eruption of en- tirely different kind, which may occur either at the same time on different parts of the body or may break out one after the other. On these grounds I consider the admission of a gonorrhoeal contagion, as proposed by Ritter (c), to be untenable. 827. In the prognosis of syphilis the following circumstances are to be observed: — Primary ulcers are more easily healed than secondary. The connexion of syphilis with other dyscrasies renders the cure difficult and may even make it impossible. The more recent is the disease, the more favourable is the prognosis. Syphilitic affections of the bones are more difficult to be subdued than those of the skin: those of the nose-bones are liable to more frequent relapses than those of the tubular bones. In warm climates and in summer the cure is more easy than in cold climates and in winter. Pregnant women in an advanced state of syphilis miscarry or bring forth a weak, ailing child. The ulcers in the throat and in the nose often easily produce extremely disfiguring destruction. All syphilitic growths are obstinate and easily recur. If, after the cure of primary syphilitic ulcers, hard scabs ( Tubercula callosa) remain, a relapse is always feared. [So does not think John Hunter, for he observes:—“ The gonorrhoea in its cure is the most uncertain of the three (forms of disease,) the chancre next, and the lues venerea the most certain, although cured by the same medicine which cures the chancre. * * A chancre may sometimes be cured in two weeks, and often requires as many months, which is in the proportion of four to one. The lues venerea in general may be cured in one or two mouths, which is only two to one.” (p. 353.) “ In the cure of chancres I have sometimes seen,” he says further, “ when the original (<i) Richond; in Fboriep’s Annalen, vol. viii. of Syphilis without Mercury ; in Med.-Chir. Irans. No. 17. vol. viii. _ , ... (6) Evans, Pathological and practical Remarks Wedemeyer, Bemerkungen iiber die Sypni on Ulceration of the Genital Organs. London, und ihrer verschiedenen Formen und uher ■ 1819. 8vo. Wirkungen und den Gebrauch des Quecksilbera Guthrie, Observations on the Treatment Derselben; in Rust's Magazin, vol.ix. p. l»o- (c) Above cited.