244 SOFT ANCHYLOSIS. without annoyance. At the latter end of the following month (August) he slipped on a stone, and fell on his side, at the same time bending the previously fixed knee. At the moment he had little pain ; but when he went to bed the pain came on, and has recurred nightly ever since. Little swelling followed, but he could no longer bear on the limb without pain, which was also excited when pressure was made on the knee-cap. On first getting up in the morning, the leg shakes very much, and causes great pain in the knee; but both subside in a few minutes, and he has not any more pain till he again goes to bed, when it recurs, and much disturbs his sleep. His general health is good. The knee-joint is now but little enlarged, and there does not appear to be any fulness from fluid in the joint. The leg is partially bent, the condyles of the thigh projecting much over the head of the shin-bone, and the knee-cap seems nearly fixed on the front of the outer condyle. The whole knee is generally tender, but especially upon the inner side. When the bones are pressed together he suffers pain, and a slight grating is felt. Amputation was performed, and he recovered. Upon examination, the whole exterior of the joint was found covered with much fat, especially in the ham, and on the inside of the tip of the knee-cap was a small abscess, containing a tea-spoonful of thick greenish-yellow pus. Within, the knee-cap was found adhering by bone to the outer condyle of the thigh-bone, and the latter was connected by fibrous tissue with the outer articular surface on the head of the shin-bone; but ,the greater portion of the hind part of the condyle was absorbed. The cartilage upon the inner condyle was partially destroyed, and the surface of the bone exposed ; upon the corresponding part of the head of the shin-bone the cartilage was almost entirely de- stroyed, and the bone itself ulcerating. Whether the fibrous anchylosis be the first step to bony anchylosis, I am not pre- pared to say; but the following instance in which the limb was amputated between thirty and forty years after the motion of the knee had been destroyed, for necrosis in the condyle, produced by a comparatively recent injury, would lead to the belief that the two diseases were distinct. Case 1.—S. D., aged fifty years, a sickly woman, came under my care in October, 1839. When ten years old she fell down an area on her right knee, which immediately swelled and became painful; suppuration ensued, and pus having been discharged ou the outside of the thigh and knee, after a time she got comparatively well, being able to tread on the entire sole of the foot; but she has never since had free motion of her knee, though capable of bending it to some extent. Twenty-three years since suppura- tion of the joint again occurred shortly before one of her confinements, and from that time a sinus on the fore and upper part of the inner condyle has continued discharging. Three years ago she received a blow with a heavy boot, just above the knee-joint, which suppurated and burst, an inch or two above and on the outside of the base of the knee- cap. From this time her health failed, and, though after lying in bed for nine months she was able to go about her usual occupations, yet during the last year the pain in the knee again became so severe that she has been constantly confined to her bed. She has now one sinus near the outer hamstring, a little above the knee-joint, and other three about the inner condyle, from which there is a free discharge. The condyles project forwards, as if the ligaments of the knee had given way, and partial dislocation had taken place. Motion of the knee-joint does not cause much pain, but she has fre- quent dull aching pain just above the knee, both day and night, which occasionally extends up to the hip, and is brought on whenever attempts are made to put the foot to the ground. Her health is much broken; her appetite bad, and she gets but little sleep. Under these circumstances, amputation above the knee was performed, and she did well. Upon examination, by making a vertical section of the bones, the recent disease was ascertained to consist in a sequestrum as large as the top of the thumb in the expanded part of the thigh-bone, which was enlarged just above its articular surface; the front of the shell of the bone was here absorbed, forming an aperture as big as a sixpence, which communicated with the wound above the knee-cap, and with the lower wound on the inner condyle; the sequestrum, which was quite loose in the cancellated struc- ture of the bone, might have been easily removed by dilating the former wound.. The popliteal space of the thigh-bone was quite bared of its periosteum, and communicated with the upper two wounds in the inner condyle. Of the primary disease there were the following traces :—The joint surfaces of the thigh and shin-bone connected by fibrous structure ; the front of the head of the latter destroyed, and in its place a patch of fibrous > matter; the bottom of the condyles destroyed, and in several parts the remaining arti- cular surface deprived of its cartilage ; both condyles were partially dislocated forwards upon the head of the shin-bone. The semilunar cartilage remained on the outer, bu not on the inner side. The knee-cap was not anchylosed.