EXFOLIATION. 693 living bone, Miescher declares himself a supporter of the latter opinion. “ I have already observed,” says he, “ that at the same time the groove began to form around the necrosis, the thin edge of the bent plate was somewhat bent down by the just grow- ing granulations and that it wasted away in minute scales. I was able to follow this out, as it were, step by step, by observation in necroses produced by baring the surface of bones in rabbits, cats, and in the calf, in which, throughout the whole proceeding, the wound remained dry; the little scales, separated in the crust covering the lips of the external wound, could be most distinctly demonstrated; which crust having been cau- tiously removed, the very thin edge of the dead plate appeared as it were corroded, and a lancet being introduced beneath it, very readily fell into minute particles. Small particles, therefore, having separated, it seems, like scales, the necrotic plate gradually diminished to sometimes more than half its size; nor was it doubtful, that in the cases mentioned by Kcysch, La Peyronie, and Kouhault, the dead piece of bone thus by degrees entirely disappeared. This exfoliation in particles might be more diffi- cult to demonstrate in those cases in which the wound is constantly moist with pus and poultices, aud the thin plate is as yet perhaps dead; but, when the other phenomena do not at all differ, and absorption by a solid lifeless body seems opposed to the very laws of physiology, and when there is no fluid, by the solvent power of which it can happen that the dissolved dead bone should be absorbed,—we cannot, even in these cases, though more doubtful, but think that the exfoliation by particles, or insensible exfoliation is per- formed. In addition to this, the acute Tenon says, that in the experiments he per- formed on dogs, he always observed, that the granulations which sprung up from the bared surface of the bone, as soon as they made their appearance, were covered with a minute crust, which might justly be considered as bony scales separated and thrown off by the granulations. Every support is, therefore, torn away from the opinion of those who, in the separation of necrosis by absorption, consider that something is taken away even from the dead bone; and we can now certainly contend, that the necrosis is separated by absorption occurring in the living parts alone; which is of no little moment for rightly understanding the reparation of bones destroyed by Jiecrosis.” (p. 207-8.) I cannot agree with Miescher that absorption takes place only in the living parts during the process of separating a sequester. Hunter’s opinion is certainly correct, “ that nature sometimes finds it necessary to the completion of her process,” that there should be some absorption of the dead bone aud that “ it generally takes place when the separation is slow, and the granulating process is quick.” I think that absorption of both dead and living part of the bone occurs most commonly in all external exfolia- tions ; but of its almost invariable occurrence in exfoliations of the bones of the head there can be no dispute; for not merely is the under surface of the exfoliated piece hollowed in correspondence with the granulations beneath, but it rarely happens that there are not two or three regular holes eaten completely through both tables of the bone, with fungous growths from the dura mater protruding in the latter case, or the granulations alone in the former.—j. f. s. The following is the account given by Troja of the incipient production of new bone seven days after the shell of the shank-bone of a pigeon had been killed by sawing the bone through and breaking up its medullary structure with a probe. “ Having killed the pigeon on the seventh day, I was astonished, on removing the muscles, to observe the very great thickness of the shank-bone, which in comparison with the opposite healthy bone was enormously thickened. On examination I found fresh bone_ newly produced around the shank-bone. On separating the periosteum, which was every where a little swollen, except at the lower end, where it was swelled up with a dense or semi-cartilaginous jelly, blood-vessels were evidently perceived entering into the substance of the new bone. When I divided this bone lengthways into two parts, the new bone, now divided, dropped, almost of its own accord, into two equal portions, from both sides of the old shank-bone. Surprised at the speedy separation of the new from the old bone, I endeavoured to ascertain the cause. Therefore carefully viewing the iuternal surface, I perceived a certain softer substance, and by bringing the point of my knife to the side of the bone, the membrane seemed to me to be lifted up. Struck with the novelty, I gave my attention to it; I inverted a true, entire, very juicy and thickish mem- brane. Whilst this was separated from the bone, wdiicli was very easily done, an almost infinite number of very delicate membranous threads were seen to draw out, which proceeding from the little apertures spread over the inner surface of the bone, were inserted into the membrane itself. Its ground colour was white, aud transparent when raised against the light, but it was tinged and almost covered with very numerous red streaks, or, if you please, with an almost infinite number of spots collected together, but