495 TEARS OF MUSCLES. 572. Some muscular fibres, or even whole muscles, are often torn by a severe and sudden stretching of the muscles, in a false step, and the like; this occurs most readily in the long narrow muscles, where the muscle begins to be tendinous, and, according to Wardrop (a), especially in the muscles of the calf. The consequences of such tearing is severe pain, in- creased by motion ; a hollow often observed at the torn part of the muscular fibre, and difficulty or complete incapability of motion. The inflamma- tory symptoms are often very severe, and a large swelling, to a greater or less extent, occurs. The limb must be put in such position that the injured muscle shall be relaxed, in order to effect union. The muscular fibres must be brought into apposition by the application of bandages, and strict rest must be persisted in; and the passage of inflammation into suppuration sought to be prevented by proper antiphlogistic treatment, especially cold applications. Barlow (b), who himself suffered this accident, advises large bleedings, application of warm water, and rolling. He considers gentle motion advisable, and complete rest hurtful. The torn ends cannot be brought into contact, and thus there is not union by the first intention. fl have seen one instance of that very rare accident a transverse tear of the m. rectus femoris, and another of the m. biceps flexor cubiti, both of which were near the attachment of their muscular fibres to their inserting tendon. I do not recollect how the second case originated, but the muscular end was drawn up to the middle of the upper arm, and formed a semiglobular swelling beneath the skin, and below it was a deep gap. In the first case, the patient was walking along the street, at his ordinary pace, when he felt, to his surprise, as if he had received a smart stroke across the thigh, and immediately dropped. He managed, however, to hobble home, a few hundred yards. I saw him next (lay, and found a large hard lump on the middle of the front of the thigh, which could be readily moved from side to side, and below it, between the two in. vasti, a large hollow, extending nearly to the knee. He was kept in bed, with his knee and leg much raised above the pelvis, and a circular roller applied around the thigh, from the groin to the detached end of the muscle, but not below. In the course of a few days the spasm of the muscle relaxed, and the swelling of its extremity sub- siding, it again united, though I presume by an intermediate substance with the tendon below. After six weeks he walked nearly as well as usual. Palmer (c) says that the tendon of m. triceps extensor cubiti is sometimes torn. Grantham mentions (d) a case in which after six weeks there was still a very large swelling from the m. rectus femoris being drawn one-third up the thigh, with a corre- sponding depression above the patella : walking msed great pain in the thigh. There was not any tendency to approximation of the divided cords by an intervening ligamen- tous substance, and the Surgeon was unable to effect any good by position or pressure. I cannot understand why there was difficulty in this case if it were properly treated at first.-J. F. S.] (а) On the Laceration of the Fibres of the Muscles, particularly of the Internal Gastrocne- mius ; in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. viii. p. 278 (б) Case of Laceration of the Fibres of the Gas- (4) Facts and Observations trocnemius Muscle; in the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, 1823, July, p. 358. (c) His Edition of Hunter’s Works, vol i. p. 436. in Medicine and Surgery.