679 ECZEMA MERCURIALE. which absorbs it, ami which thus becomes a new source of irritation; it emits also a very fetid odour. This process takes place in the successive patches of the eruption, until the whole surface of the body, from head to foot, is sometimes in a state of painful excoriation, with deep fissures in the bends of the joints, and in the folds of the skin of the trunk; and with partial scaly incrustations of a yellowish hue, produced by the drying of the humour, by which also the irritation is augmented. The extreme pain arising from the pressure of the weight of the body upon an extensive portion of such a raw surface, is sufficient to give rise to an acceleration of the pulse and white tongue, but the functions of the stomach and of the sensorium commune are not evidently dis- turbed by this disease. The duration of this excoriation and discharge is uncertain and irregular ; when only a small part of the body is affected it may terminate in ten days, but when the disorder has been universal, the patient seldom completely recovers in less than six weeks, and is often afflicted to the end of eight or ten weeks. By so severe an inflammation the whole epidermis is destroyed in its organization ; and when the discharge ceases it lies loose, assuming a pale brown colour, which changes almost to black before it falls off in large flakes. As in other superficial inflammations, how- ever, the new red cuticle that is left is liable to desquamate again, even to the third or fourth time, but in smaller branny scales of a white colour, and a roughness sometimes remains for a considerable period, like a slight degree of psoriasis. In some instances, not only the cuticle but the hair and nails are also observed to fall off; and the latter, when renewed, are incurvated, thickened, and furrowed, as in lepra." (pp. 255, 56.) Carmichael mentions that he “ knew a gentleman who was always attacked by this eruption when he took but a single grain of calomel, and also an instance of the disease being produced by the application of the black mercurial wash to a venereal ulcer.” fp. 326.) “ Although the Eczema mercuriale is produced by the action of mercury, yet the dis- ease is not always exasperated by persisting in the use of it; for in some particular cases, * where,’ says Pearson, ‘ I judged it to be of great moment to continue the mercurial frictions, the eruption neither spread universally, nor was it materially increased, although the patients were not relieved from it till mercury was discon- tinued.’” (p. 173) (4) Bacot says:—“ The character of the mercurial ulceration of the throat is that of an aphthous superficial sore, surrounded with a general blush of inflammation. The tonsils are the usual seats of the ulceration, and they are sometimes also met with on the velum pendulum palati. Occasionally there is much stiffness and difficulty of swallowing, without the appearance of any breach of surface at all. Now, independ- ently of the mere appearance of the sore, these symptoms will always be found in ; connexion with, or almost immediately following the use of the remedy—that is to say, that when towards the termination of a mercurial course, whether the effects of the mineral have been such as might have been wished for and expected or not, if the patient begins to complain of pain or difficulty in swallowing, and upon examination the tonsils are found either studded with small ulcers or affected with only one larger superficial sore, the patient being himself not quite free from fever, with disturbed rest and feelings of general discomfort, there can be no hesitation in believing that this I disease is the result of mercurial action. The same symptoms making their approach within two or three weeks after the mercury has been discontinued, will also admit of the same explanation, and more especially if our patient, after having been confined to the house, or nearly so, during his cure, has been exposed to sudden or severe transitions of temperature.” (pp. 265, 66.)] 860. The character of the mercurial disease is diminished cohesion and atony ; it is a cachexy similar to the scorbutic. The means recom- mended for it are, leaving off the mercury, the employment of warm and strengthening dietetic treatment, sarsaparilla, saponaria, smilax cftincr, dulcamara, bardana, guiaiacum, mineral acids in connexion with wood- drinks, the tinct. arom. acida,—sulpliurico-acida in decoction of fine buds or malt; mild, strengthening, and astringent remedies, bark, cascarilla, folia aurantiorum and fol. ilicis aquifolii in decoction or infusion ; subse- quently, steel. In the mercurial disease, disturbance of the functions of the liver usually occurs, against which the laxative extracts, and es- pecially the extract, chelid. maj., recommended by the English practitioners, in connexion with soda and the like, are of considerable service (1).