727 RECTAL FISTULA. Ribes (a), the internal opening of rectal fistula is most commonly found immediately above the part where the internal membrane of the rectum joins the external skin, rarely about, but never higher than five or six lines ; at least such was the case in seventy-five corpses in which Ribes examined rectal fistulas. [Astley Cooper mentions a case of fistula which had a very remarkable course:—“ A man died of a discharge from a sinus in the groin, having also a fistula in ano; and upon tracing the sinus in the groin, it passed under Poupart’s ligament, and taking the course of the vas deferens, descended into the fistula in ano.” (p. 326.)] 927. These observations, which agree with my own experience, must assist the Surgeon in the examination of rectal fistulas. A thickish probe should be introduced horizontally and nearly parallel with the perinceum, at least in women, because in them the opening of the rectum is less drawn in, than in the male, in whom the probe must be directed rather more upwards. The probe should be introduced into the canal of the fistula, and without leaving it, carried, towards the lower end of the rectum, where sometimes the opening is found, and the probe may be felt penetrating into the gut by the forefinger therein introduced. In many cases when the patient protrudes the rectum, and the edges are drawn aside with the fingers, the internal opening of the fistula may be seen. If the examina- tion be not thus proceeded with, the internal opening must be sought at the bottom of the fistula ; the wall of the rectum may be easily penetrated. If several external fistulous orifices be present, they all must be examined in order to determine whether they be connected with each other. 1 he examination must be repeatedly made whilst the patient is on his side, with the trunk bent forwards, upon his back with the thighs drawn up, and whilst standing. Catgut bougies and injections may also be employed for the close examination of the state of the fistula. In the examination of incomplete internal fistula, those parts at which the patient has always specially felt pain, or which are indicated by softness, hardness, or laxness, must be carefully examined, partly with the finger and partly with the probe, I which should not be hook-like and curved, but straight, as the canal of the fistula often stretches upwards (&) (par. 924.) The part, which about the anus is harder and painful to the touch, shows the bottom of the external blind fistula. The colour of the skin is here usually changed, and on pressure pus flows into the rectum. These symptoms, however, are often wanting, and the patient merely feels pain. 928. The cure of the rectal fistula which has an internal opening, is only to be effected by division of the sphincter muscle, and the partition between the fistulous passage and the gut. If the canal of the fistula extend far up, a relapse is more certainly prevented by beginning the di- vision from the external opening. Many observations support this, and there is the proof that the most important part of the operation for rectal fistula consists in the division of the sphincter muscle, whereby the col- lection of fsecal matter in the rectum is prevented, and the union of the walls of the fistula possible. An imperfect external rectal fistula does not always require this division of the partition, because if in such case due care be taken for the proper escape of the pus, the stripping of therection is not so considerable as to render doubtful the connexion of the walls of the fistula with the neighbouring parts. The operation for rectal fistula must be (a) Recherches sur la situation de l’Oriflce in- in Revue Medicale, Historique et Philosophique. terne dela Fistule a l’Anus et sur les parties dans Paris, 1820, livr. i. p. 174. I’epaisseur desquelles ces ulcer?*. ont leur siege; (6) Schbioer, above cited, p. 98.