OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. 791 1053. Though dislocations of the elbow-joint have great disposition to become irreducible, yet if severe inflammation have come on, reduction must not be undertaken till that has been removed. Before attempting the reduction of an old dislocation, repeated motions of the fore-arm are to be made for several days previously. If repeated attempts do not suc- ceed, violent extension must be abstained from, because otherwise severe inflammation is to be feared. In dislocation of the elbow-joint forwards, which can only occur with fracture of the olechranon, the same treatment must be adopted as in that fracture, with simultaneous antiphlogistic remedies. 1054. The dislocation backwards of the spoke-bone is the most common, but occurs more rarely in adults, than in young persons, in whom it does not take place at once; but by the habit of pulling the child by the hand a considerable relaxation of the articular connexions of the spoke-bone is produced, which is often manifested by great projection of its end, and painful swelling of its joint, and if the violence be persisted in, dislocation of the radius backwards is produced. At the moment when the disloca- tion occurs the patient feels severe pain, the arm is bent, and the hand prone; supination is impossible and increases the pain ; the hand and fingers are moderately bent; the upper end of the bone forms a distinct projection. 1055. The dislocation forwards of the upper end of the spoke-bone, is the consequence of violent supination. The fore-arm is slightly bent, but cannot be brought to a right angle with the upper arm ; if the fore-arm be suddenly bent, the head of the bone strikes against the front of the upper-arm-bone, by which the flexion is suddenly stopped. The hand is prone, but can be brought again perfectly into pronation and supination, although pronation is nearly complete. The head of the spoke-bone can be felt, especially in rotation, which together with the continued flexion of the fore-arm are the most decided characters. Boyek doubts the possibility of dislocation forwards without fracture at the same time ; in which case the supination necessary to produce this dislocation is prevented by the lesser head of the upper-arm-bone, which thrusts violently against the head of the spoke-bone. This opinion, however, is contradicted by foreign and by my own expe- rience. A. Cooper (a) has seen the dislocation of the spoke-bone forwards six times; I have seen it twice, and once as an old dislocation in a corpse. The spoke-bone sepa- rates from the cubit, at its connexion with the coronoid process, and its head is drawn back into the hollow above the outer condyle of the upper-arm-bone, and upon the coro- noid process of the cubit. Examination shows the head of the spoke-bone drawn up into the cavity above the outer condyle of the upper-arm-bone, the cubit in its natural place ; the coronary ligament of the spoke-bone, the chorda transvermlis, the front of the capsular ligament and the interosseous membrane are partially torn, and in conse- quence of the tearing of the latter the separation of both bones is produced. Hoover (Z»), Villaume (e), and Gerdy (d) have also seen dislocation of the upper ends of the spoke-bone forwards; B. Cooper (e) noticed it once with fracture of the inner condyle of the upper arm, and once with a fracture of the spoke-bone an inch and a-half from its head. Simultaneous dislocation of the spoke-bone forwards and of the cubit backwards, have been noticed by Bullet (f ) and by Vignolo (<?). A longitudinal dislocation of the spoke-bone, in which the head was displaced laterally and above, over the outer condyle of the upper-arm-bone, was seen by Adams (//). (a) Above cited, p. 474. (/j) Journal General de Medecine, April, 1818. (o) Revue Medicate, 1841. (/,) Dublin Journal of Medical Science, 1840, (e) Above cited, p. 437. ( f) l’rov. Med. and Surg. Journal, 1841. n. \c .it_ iua i 1834.