VAKIOUS KINDS OF 327 : i made, rather loose, as it soon becomes sufficiently tight by the outpouring of adhesive matter between the edges of the wound and into the neighbouring cellular tissue. As a general rule I think it best, when sutures are put in, to make use of so many as without further assistance will keep the parts well in place, and then overlay the whole wound with a piece of soft linen dipped in cold water, which should be continually changed as it begins to dry; neither lint nor anything else which has upon it any fluff should be used for this purpose, as it entangles with the effused adhesive matter and at every removal disturbs the wound. The object of the cold application is to regulate the vascular action of the necessary inflammation. I rather prefer many sutures to the em- ployment of few, which require the conjoint application of sticking plaster. Sutures should only be employed when the wound is clean cut, never when it is much torn or bruised ; as under the latter conditions union by adhesion cannot reasonably be expected to take place. A clean cut wound, made either accidentally, or purposely in operation, even though of several inches in length, will frequently be united throughout, if its edges be properly adjusted, in twenty or thirty hours. This observation especially applies to wounds of the face. Wherever they can be used, and there is scarcely a case in which they cannot be employed, I prefer Dieffenbach’s practice of using thin insect pins and the twisted suture; but all that has been stated in reference to the suture with thread, equally applies to that made with pins.—J. F. S.] 314. The sutures in use are, the Interrupted Suture, (Sutura nodosa, interscissa, Lat.; Knopf haht, Germ.; Suture entrecoupee, Fr.,) the Twisted Suture, (Sutura convoluta, Lat.; Umivundene Naht, Germ.; Suture entortillee, Fr.,) the Quill Suture, (Suture clavula, Lat. ; Zapfen- nalit, Germ.; Suture enchevillee, Fr.,) and the Gloveds Suture ( Gastro- raphe^ Lat.; Darmnaht, Germ.; Suture despelliers, Fr.) The interrupted and quill stitch will be here alone considered as those used in common wounds; the others will be, by-and-by, more particularly noticed. 315. For the application of the interrupted suture, a needle of good steel is to be used, curved, so as to form the segment of a circle, very pointed, and cutting on either side for a third of its length ; the other end should be thinner, rounded off, and furnished with an eye; it is to be so held, in the right hand, that the thumb rests on the concave, and the fore and middle fingers on the convex side. At a distance from the edge of the wound, of from three to eight lines, (according to the gaping of the wound,) the needle is to be introduced, and, when the point has reached the bottom, a movement must be made, so that the opposite edge of the w ound may be transfixed ; to facilitate the passage of the needle the skin must be pressed against its point, with the thumb and fore finger of the left hand. When the needle has been drawn through, the waxed thread contained in its eye must be drawn after it, the edges of the wound brought into contact, and the ends of the thread tied so that the knot may be placed on one or other edge of the wound, and it is, also, to be particularly observed that the ends of the threads be not drawn together tighter than is necessary to bring the edges of the wound in close connexion. If the wound be very deep and gaping, the thread may be provided with two needles, and the edges of the wound pierced from within outwards. It depends on the size and direction of the wound how many stitches should be used ; commonly a stitch to an inch is computed, but frequently one stitch is sufficient for a large wound, because the union of the rest of the w ound is possible by means of sticking plaster. The first stitch should be in the middle of the wound, or at that spot where the edges of the wound, by reason of its form, most closely correspond (1). Upon the different form of needles for wounds, see Krombholz’s Akologie, vol. i. p. 375. The application of a suture with a single thread, with which loops are formed, which are then ent through, is improper on account of the irritation of the wound of the needle ’y the drawing through of a long thread.