CHEEK-BONES. 527 t thrust too much out. The raised pieces having little disposition to fall in i again, it is therefore in most cases superfluous and injurious to keep them in place by stopping up the nostrils with plugs, or by the introduction of I elastic tubes (which foreign bodies always increase the inflammation.) i Only in cases in which the broken ends are again displaced must they be a used. Dispersing applications are to be employed for diminishing the in- i flammation ; but the ridge of the nose must not be pressed by them. For these reasons it is plain that all bandages are useless and hurtful; nor is the case of pasteboard, or papier machd, used by Dzondi (a), of much consequence. 597. If severe inflammation and swelling have already occurred, we must first endeavour to lessen these by proper treatment before setting the fracture. This, however, must not be long delayed, as it otherwise becomes impossible, and an irremediable deformity remains. The bleeding in fractured nose may be so great as to render necessary the applications of plugs by means of Belloq’s tubes. In case symptoms of brain- affection should be present, the treatment must be directed to them. II.—OF FRACTURES OF THE CHEEK-BONE. (Fractura Ossis Malcr, Lat.; Bruche der Jochbeine, Germ.; Fracture de V Os de la Pommette, Fr.) 598. Fracture of the Cheek-hone is rare, and mostly accompanied with crushing and wound of the soft parts. The arch of the cheek (.zygoma) may, on account of its form, be easily broken if violence be applied to it directly; it may at the same time be split or the broken edges may be driven in. As the violence to produce this accident must always be very great, it may also affect the brain. From the tearing of the soft parts severe inflammation and nervous symptoms may come on. 599. The diagnosis of this accident is always easy, if the swelling of the soft parts be not great. If the ends of the fracture be not dis- i placed, nothing better can be done than to subdue the inflammation by • proper treatment: the patient must keep the jaw (which should be i fastened with a halter bandage) quiet; he must not speak and only take fluid food. If the ends of the fracture be pressed in, the finger must be introduced into the mouth for the purpose of restoring them to their proper place. In those cases only in which the fractured pieces are driven into the temporal muscle, whereby chewing and swallowing are prevented, and which cannot be raised up by the introduction of the u finger into the mouth, it would perhaps be indicated to cut through the integuments down to the bone, and to raise the pieces with an elevator. 600. If the alveolar process be broken, in which case the teeth ’ usually become loose or fall completely out, these as well as the loose pieces of bone must be again pressed into their place, where they fre- quently adhere; the jaw is to be fixed with the halter-bandage, and the accompanying bruising of the soft parts treated according to the rules laid dow n. Graefe, in a case of fracture of the upper jaw, in which both upper jaw-bones were so ' separated from all their connexions that together with the rows of teeth they could be displaced at pleasure, used a peculiar machine for keeping them steady (b). (а) Lehrbuch,p. 578. PI. iii. f. ]8.—Ci.oquet, CJ.) Momoire stir les (б) Reich, Dissert, de Maxilla; Superiors Frac- Fractures par contre-coup de la Machoire Supe- j tura. Berol. 1822.—Journal von GraEfe und rieure. Paris, 1820. VON Waltheb, volt iv. p. 592. vol. v. p. 55d.