129 FROST-BITE. having continued still cold, lie returned to his work, and for five hours during the after- noon was engaged cutting off the horns from the hides, whilst he held the latter in his left hand. Towards the latter part of the afternoon he felt cold all over, and, when lie had returned home, feeling his left hand very cold, and being unable to straighten his fingers, which had stiffened as he held the skins; hut neither the fingers nor hand were yet discoloured, lie put his hand into lukewarm water; but could not bear it immersed on account of the great pain excited, which was also brought on by holding the hand to the fire. Indeed, he was only easy when the hand was cold, and could not even bear it beneath the bed-clothes, but was obliged to keep it out upon the counterpane. Before putting his hand and arm into warm water, there was not any apparent change in colour; but, after the first and every succeeding dipping into warm water, the hand became red and redder, and more painful. On the 25th ult., when he awoke in the morning he noticed the nails were blackening about their roots; but he was free from pain, though the hand was very cold and numb, and was not prevented going about a little job. On the 2Gth he again tried immersion in warm water; but the pain recurred, and the terminal joints of all the fingers and thumb had now become black. The mortification continued spreading; repeated applications of warmth always excited pain, and he was more easy in proportion to the part being kept cold. On the 30th the mortification, having continued along the fingers, just entered the palm, and he began to suffer constant pain. On Feb. 2, the hand had mortified up to the wrist; the pain was so gnawing and severe that he could not rest, and was accompanied with severe head-ache. He applied to a medical man, who bled him twice in the same day from the ailing arm, but did not get more than a pint of blood, and ordered warm applications. Feb. 3. During the last night the gangrene had extended about one-third of the fore- arm upwards; has a dark colour, which terminates abruptly; is perfectly cold and insensible. He complains of pain in the head, aching and weariness of the limb, loss of rest at nights, general weakness, and failing appetite ; he suffers much from thirst; his tongue covered with white fur, and the bowels confined; pulse 120, regular and weak, but perceptible at both wrists. A dose of infusion of senna with sulphate of magnesia was ordered forthwith; meat, and a pint of porter daily ; warm fomentations and linseed- meal poultice to be applied to the hand. Feb. 4. Altogether more comfortable. The bowels have been freely relieved; his tongue is cleaner, and the head-ache lessened. Is to have four ounces of brandy and two pints of porter daily. Feb. 5. Is much the same; but feels very weak, though his appetite is improving. No pulsation can to-day be felt in the wrist of the ailing arm. The heart was carefully examined to-day, and its action and sounds ascertained to be natural. Is to have a mutton chop and two eggs, with three pints of porter, daily. R tinct. opii tRxx. sp. annum, comp. 3j. ex mist, camph. Gtis. Feb 15. The gangrene has not spread since the last report; the line of demarcation between the living and dead parts is now apparent, and some vesication has occurred round the arm. The ulcerative process has continued steadily, and has now, March 8, completely passed through the soft parts down to the bones, forming a regular well-shaped stump, the whole of which is granulating kindly. The gangrenous part has much the appearance of brown paper, and, though a little shrivelled, keeps its form, but is very offensive. It was therefore thought advisable to saw through the dead bones and remove it, which was done accordingly. His health has been steadily improv- ing; he has scarcely had an untoward symptom, his head only aching occasionally ; he sleeps well, and enjoys his food. March 31. Wound cicatrizing, and there seems every prospect of his doing well.] 105. If a part frozen or benumbed by cold be too suddenly warmed, severe inflammation is the result; the part swells, becomes red and blue, and active throbbing pain ensues—chilblains; pouring out of fluid into the cellular tissue, suppuration, and, in actually frozen parts, gangrene. Corresponding appearances occur on the whole body if warmth be applied after exposure to severe cold ; the skin swells, becomes red and painful, red spots, gorging with blood in different parts, and, in consequence, swimming of the head, swooning, spitting of blood, inflammation of the lungs, and so on. The hasty warming of a thoroughly benumbed body produces death and rapid putrefaction. VOL. I. K