TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION, &c. OF THE BRAIN. 403 0} so that it thrust the falx much to the right, and compressed the right hemisphere. The cavity of the left ventricle was almost entirely destroyed; the left striated body flat- tened, and the optic bed, septum lucidum, corpus callosum, and junction of the optic nerves were driven much to the right. The size of the right ventricle was diminished, and it contained little fluid. The medullary substance was very soft around the swelling, so that the latter, which was distinctly encysted, and contained much pus, was readily turned out of it with the finger. In the right hemisphere the medullary matter was very firm.] 407. The symptoms and course of traumatic inflammation of the brain and its membranes may be variously modified, by the simultaneous attack of both brain and membranes, by the occurrence of inflammation in exist- ing pressure of the brain from depressed bone, or by previous concussion of the brain. 408. The prognosis of inflammation of the brain depends upon the pos- sibility of removing its causes. If the inflammation continue, it runs on to suppuration, and then upon the seat and extent of the collection of pus depends whether it can be removed or not. It is, therefore, the first duty of the Surgeon to examine closely the part of the ligad on which the external violence lias acted, and if splinters, indents, and so on be present, they must be removed according to the rules laid down. 409. The inflammation requires the strictest antiphlogistic treatment, bleeding from the arm, in the jugular vein, leeches to the head, to the neck, of which the bleeding should be kept up for from twelve to twenty- four hours, by the repeated application of the leeches ; internally, antiphlo- gistic purgatives, calomel in smart doses (1), and especially the continual application of ice or of Schaiucker’s solution, (four ounces of nitrate of potash, two ounces of muriate of ammonia, a pint of vinegar, and ten pints of water,) no remedies being so efficient as cold fomentations to prevent inflammation. They must, therefore, as well as the prophylactic bleedings, be from the first employed in every injury of the head in which inflamma- tion of the brain is to be feared (2). [(1) In the treatment of inflammation of the brain or its membranes, the principal reli- ance is to be placed on the use of mercury, till it produces ptyalism; soon after the appear- ance of which the symptoms begin to be less severe, and therefore the more quickly the constitution can be affected, the more favourable may be the expected results. On this account the calomel should be given in two-grain doses, every eight, six, or even four hours, according to the severity of the symptoms, and even rubbing in mercurial oint- ment may be also employed twice or thrice a day. So soon as the mercurial fetor of the breath is observed, and the gums begin to separate from the teeth, it will be seen that the constitution is beginning to be laid hold of by the mercury, and then the quantity given or rubbed in must be diminished to that only which is sufficient to keep up the mercurial action. (2) After free evacuations of blood, which I think are most effectual when local, by cupping on the nape, temples, or behind the ears, a large blister over the whole scalp, or on the nape, if the scalp be wounded, is often extremely beneficial.—J. F. S.] 410. If, with this treatment persisted in with sufficient energy, and for proper length of time, the symptoms of gorging and inflammation of the brain continue undiminished, or rather if they gradually increase, especially when the bared bone shews a grayish colour and change in its texture, trepanning must be had recourse to. In this case it is probable that some : cause, as a splinter or extravasated blood, exists within the skull, which | keeps up the inflammation, and renders all treatment useless, but may be i found out and removed by trepanning. 411. If the symptoms of suppuration have already appeared, the prog- nosis is very unsatisfactory indeed; there is, however, the simple possibility 2 d 2