455 THE HEART. In Featherstone’s case (a) of the soldier who slipped, and falling upon his bayonet wounded the muscular substance of the left ventricle, lived only forty-nine hours, two quarts of blood were eftused into the cavity of the chest, the pericardium was nearly filled with blood, and had a puncture which extended three-quarters of an inch into the muscular substance of the left ventricle about two inches from its apex. On opening the ventricle the bayonet was found to have penetrated its cavity, and to have cut through one of the fleshy columns of the mitral valve. A small coagulum was formed at the edge of the wound through the pericardium. Upon this case Featherstone observes that “ death in this case, it is perfectly evident, was not produced from any alarm ex- cited in the system by the wound, but occurred as a secondary consequence from the haemorrhage increasing to such an extent as to interrupt the action of the heart and lungs. That the haemorrhage proceeded chiefly from the heart must be admitted; there was no symptom whatever that indicated a wound of the lung; none could be found in the most deliberate examination ; and the intercostal artery was entirely free from injury.” In Dr. Babington’s case (b), the marine who fell from the gangway on his bayonet, which pierced through the heart besides wounding other viscera, died in less thau twenty-four hours. The emphysema which had commenced early at the upper part of the chest gradually augmented, and, about three hours before death, had reached the head and face, and before he died had extended over the whole body. The external wound was midway between the spine and white line, and the last rib and crest of the ileum ; thence the bayonet had passed through the sigmoid flexure of the colon, through the stomach two inches from the pylorus ; thence through the left lobe of the liver, through the centre of the tendon of the diaphragm and the pericardium ; then through the heart near the tricuspid valve, through the lungs, and out of the right side of the chest, between the cartilages of the second and third ribs terminating in the substance of the pectoral muscle. In the belly there was a little bloody serum ; in the pericar- dium a small quantity of blood, but in the right pleura two quarts of the latter fluid. In another case (c), where there was laceration of the pericardium, and a superficial wound of the heart, the patient who had been thrust against a wall by the shaft of a cart, lived twelve days. The sternum was fractured, and on examination its upper part was found protruding into the pericardium, and to have lacerated the right ventricle through nearly a third of its substance. There was not any fluid in the pericardium, but its inner surface was lined with false membrane. The heart itself pale, and its sub- stance very friable. The right fourth, fifth and sixth ribs were fractured ; a large quan- tity of blood extravasated in the pleural cavity on that side, and the lung pushed upwards. Sometimes extraneous bodies remain lodged in the heart, as in the following instances. Hennen says he has “ seen a preparation of a pin lodged in the human heart (but without any trace of how it got there.) The patient had complained of pain in his chest about three months previous to his death, and died of carditis. On examination, im- mense thickening and enlargement of the organ, with extensive effusion of coagulable lymph upon its surface, and adhesion to the pericardium was discovered.” (p. 396.) Fournier mentions (d) the case of a soldier who received a gun-shot wound of the chest, and was taken up for dead, on account of the severe bleeding which had occurred. By great care the flow of blood began to diminish on the third day ; his strength insen- sibly increased, suppuration came on, and many splinters of bone exfoliated. After three months the wound was healed; the patient’s health restored, without other incon- venience than frequent palpitations of the heart, which harassed him for three years. During the following three years they became less troublesome, and he then died of disease unconnected with the heart. On examination the cicatrix was found very deep, with loss of substance of the fractured rib. The ball was found lodged in the right ventricle of the heart near its tip, enfolded in a great measure in the pericardium, and resting on the septum medium.” (pp. 396, 97.) Ploucqcet also recites a case where a ball lodged in the anterior ventricle of the human heart, where it is said to have remained for years.J Compare also Dupuytren, Leqons Orales de Clinique Chirurgicale, vol. ii. p. 157. Lees; in Dublin Journal. May, 1837. Steiffensand, Ueber Herzwunden und Blut Extravasat in der Brusthuhlt; in Cas- par’s VVochenshrift. 1838. No. 15. De Jong, Diss. de Vulneribus Cordis. Grdning, 1838. Trans., vol. ii. (e) Repert Gener. de Breschet. W Medical Records and Researches. (d) Cas Rare; in Diet, des Sciences Medicales.