43 VARIOUS KINDS OF. a new but not less important purpose,—the preservation of that structure. Pus is as necessary to the maintenance of granulation as lymph was to its formation; but a change is necessary to fit it for its new function, and this is provided for by a new arrangement of a new action of the secreting capillaries, and a chemical change, which destroys its vital property and amalgamates the separated lymph-globules with the serum of the blood. The precedence of adhesive to suppurative action is sufficient to render presumable a necessary connexion between the lymph separated during the first process, and afterwards disappearing, and to explain the invariableness of this relation in the order of their appearance. There is no analogy between the effusions of serum or of liquor sanguinis incidental to primary wound or injury of any kind and pus, yet the ingredients of the two latter are the same: it is by the combinations of a vital che- mistry that their appearance and sensible properties differ, and this we are capable of imitating. If this theory be admitted, it will explain the appearance of pus in the absence of the especial granular structure or distinct pyogenic membrane, as seen upon mucous, serous, and synovial surfaces and canals; and, even in the absence of fibrinous exudation, as in certain modes of inflammation, where the habit of the parts or the cha- racter of the inflammation renders them incapable of carrying on the adhesive action, or that action is by violence interrupted. Puriform mucus, muco-purulent secretion, are terms in common use, indicating the transition stage witnessed in these cases; so also the modifications of colour, consistence, and purity are explained, which are con- veyed by the terms sanious, flaky, or whey-like, ichorous, &c., and the improvement , of the secretion by elaboration from that of fistula: and sinuses to the ‘ pus laudabile ’ of old authors concurrent with the improved vitality of the granulations, meaning a fuller ; proportion of the lymph-particle to the serum, and vice versa, its degeneration in eu- I: feebled and sinking states of the system. Thus also is explained the effect of inordinate ' i and excessive suppuration to superinduce hectic, from the excessive withdrawment of i that ingredient which forms the nutrient and restoring principle of the blood. * * * The conversion of the blood-corpuscle into the pus-corpuscle is a notion altogether gratuitous and unsupported either by appearance or probability ; and, to my mind, the above is a theory more reconcilable with all the circumstances attending its origin than that which supposes de novo formation of the pus globules. But the wounds of cold- blooded animals not being subjected to the true suppurative process, nor those of mam- malia and birds disposed to free suppuration, there appears to be insuperable difficulty ■ in establishing this theory by actual demonstration.” (pp. 172, 6.)] 14. The nature of the pus varies considerably according to the nature of the parts in which it is formed, according to the constitution of the person, according to the degree and character of the inflammation ; it may be changed by other fluids, mingled with it. We distinguish good cream- like, uniformly consistent, yellowish white, inodorous pus, {pus bonum ct ' laudabile, Lat.,) thin, mucous-like, serous, grayish, greenish, brownish, and more or less fetid pus {sanies, ichor, Lat.; Jauclie, Germ.) (1). These varieties of pus, as well as the fluid products of inflammation especially, j depend merely on the different proportions of the materials composing it. All these products are derived from the blood, and in them are found all the same materials as in the blood, excepting fibrin. Thus is it clear why chemical and microscopical examination cannot ascertain any determinate difference between the products of inflammation and the serum of the blood, the mucus, the serum from dropsy, the yellowish white fluid {ma- teria puriformis) poured out from inflamed mucous membranes (2) ; the thin, lymph-like fluid which exudes from inflamed serous membranes (3) and the various kinds of pus appear to be compounded in the same way. Their difference consists only in the different proportions of the several substances, in their disposition to organization, and in the greater or less 1 advanced degree of plastic activity (4). 1 The presence of globules in the serum has been long since proved by Bauer and r ahaday (a), as also by Mandt and others in the various effusions and serosities which occur in the cellular tissue and iu the serum of dropsy ; but the albumen in pus is in (a) See Home on the Conversion of Pus into Granulations or New Flesh, in Phil. Trans. 1S19, p. 2.