SKULL-BONES. 699 (a) Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. xxxii , 1829. young woman had no symptoms of compression till about three or four days before she died, though at intervals, for some time before, she had suffered agonizing headache in paroxysms of several hours. When the vault of the skull is attacked with necrosis, not unfrequently very large portions of bone die, as does also the scalp covering it, excepting at the circumference of the dead bone, which the skin still overlaps and seems as it were folded in. When both tables of the bone die, which, as far as I have had opportunity of observing is most common, though not to equal extent, as in general the external table is more largely destroyed than the internal, suppuration begins between the bone and the dura mater, and if near a suture, the pus makes way between its teeth and is seen welling up at every pulsation of the brain. By degrees the granulations formed on the surface of the dura mater eat away holes of various size through the dead bone, and funguses appear, which, however, rarely exceed externally the size of the aperture. But on removing the dead bone, very large funguses are found on the dura mater, and in the course of a few hours, when freed from the pressure, rise above the surface of the scalp, sometimes to the size of half a split egg. These funguses are generally very foul, sloughy, blackish, green-coloured and horribly offensive; and when of large size the patient generally sinks with symptoms of inflamedbrain. Instances do, however, happen in which enormous portions of the vault of the skull do separate, and the patient recover; I have at this time under my care a woman, who in the course of the last eight or nine years has lost by exfoliation, the greater part of both parietal bones, and some portions of the temporal and occipital. All one side of her face supplied by the facial nerve, ( portio dura,) has been paralysed for many years, though it cannot be ascertained how this is connected with the necrosis during the course of which it has arisen. Other portions of the skull have from time to time exfoliated, but after the principal exfoliations, the deficient parts of the skull have filled, as usual, with tough fibrous membrane, and she has been able for four or five years to follow her ordinary occupation as one of the hospital servants. If the external table only have been destroyed, the bony granulations beneath as frequently make holes through it as those from the dura mater do through both tables. Caries occurs also in the bones of the face as well as of the skull, and more espe- cially of the nose-bones, where it is very frequently consequent on lupoid ulceration of the soft parts. I have also at present under my care a boy in whom the upper jaw-bone has been destroying slowly for the last four years from this same cause, and who has lost the greater part of the front of the alveolar arch and of the bony plate, nor has any remedy arrested the diseased process but for a very short time, after which it has burst out again with greater activity. The disease which results from mercury is necrosis, rather than caries, whether hap- pening either on the skull or face ; and even in syphilis except when the bone is affected secondly by the extension of the ulcerative process from a sore in the soft parts, ne- crosis is more frequent than caries. Syjie (a) relates the case of a woman who at the age of twenty years had a sore on her nose, for which she took large quantities of mercury. The sore rapidly extended, the bones became affected, and a rapid exfolia- tion commenced, which soon deprived her of all the face except the lower jaw and part of the ossa malarum. Five years after her eyes were divested of their coverings, the pharynx completely exposed to view, the tongue lay exposed from root to apex sur- rounded by the foul and vacillating teeth of the lower jaw, and the whole surface had a most unhealthy ulcerated appearance. In the course of the following four years the whole ulcerated surface had healed, and the eyes were covered with a thick skin. She was very weak and for a long period had existed on little else than laudanum, of which she took half an ounce daily. She died shortly after, and on examination it was ascertained that the remaining bone was everywhere perfectly sound, (p. 238.)—J. F. S.] 879. What relates to the causes of caries of the skull-bones has been already said on the general subject; it is, however, most frequently conse- quent on syphilis. The prognosis is determined according to the variety of the causes as well as the extent of the caries. If it occur on the inner table of the skull, or if the skull be eaten through from without to within, pressure on the brain or ulceration of its membranes, which often extends to the brain itself, is to be feared. 880. The treatment of this caries is guided by the general rules. Only when both plates of the skull are destroyed, especially it the caries ha\e