REMOVAL OF 144 by the bleeding from completing the operation, and brought away only a small frag- ment. “ In the course of fourteen days the calculus dropped from the tonsil into the mouth,” and the patient did well. In the other two cases the calculus also escaped from the tonsil into the mouth. Burns says that “ these and, indeed, all tonsillitic concretions have been distinguished by a fetid stercoraceous odour. Sometimes the concretion does not acquire the same degree of solidity as in the cases mentioned. In some patients it forms in the cryptai of the tonsil, enlarging them, and even projecting into the fauces. Where it assumes that form, it can, by any blunt instrument, be turned out from the recesses of the tonsil in gritty masses of a dirty-white colour. The forma- tion of this gritty matter would seem to be connected with some deranged state of the intestinal canal. It will be necessary to pick the foreign substance from the tonsil, and, to prevent its reproduction, the bowels must be restored to their natural action. It is by no means an uncommon affection.” (pp. 2G3-5.)] 133. If the swelling of the hardened tonsils be so great that breathing and swallowing become very difficult, their partial extirpation is necessary. If the swelling be not very great, two or three transverse, but not very deep, incisions are sufficient to produce their diminution in the course of a few days. The removal is best effected by a narrow, slightly curved, blunt-pointed or button-ended bistoury, or with a narrow, straight, button-ended scalpel. The patient should be placed on a seat opposite the light, his head resting on the bosom of one assistant and a little inclined forwards, and his mouth kept open by a piece of cork placed between the hind molar teeth ; whilst another assistant keeps down the tongue with a spatula. The operator fixes a double hook, or Museux’s hook forceps, which are preferable, in the swollen tonsil, holds the forceps with one hand and manages the knife with the other, so as to divide as much as is necessary of the tonsil at one stroke from beneath upwards. (The hook or forceps are to be used with the left, and the knife with the right, hand, if the left tonsil is to be removed ; but the contrary, if the right.) If the tonsil still remain partially attached, it must be cut off by a second stroke of the knife or with Coopeh’s scissors. In unsteady patients Dessault’s kiotome is often preferable, which, when the patient is seated as above, the mouth open, and the hook, fixed in the tonsil, is so introduced with its edge retracted, that the tonsil comes against the slit part of the sheath, and the projecting part is cut off by the protrusion of the knife. The introduction of the hook often produces severe tickling in the throat, suffocation, and so on, in order to avoid which the division may be made without previous introduction of the hook. If, on account of its size, the whole tonsil cannot be re- ceived into the curve of the kiotome, a part of it must be removed by two oblique cuts meeting at an angle; or cross cuts are to be made with the kiotome, first at the upper part, and next at the lower third of the tonsil; the isolated part is then to be taken into the curve of the instru- ment, and the two transverse connected by a third longitudinal incision. The deep cleft thus formed falls together in the course of five or six days (a). Fahnestock’s tonsillitome (b), with the alterations of Velpeau and Ricord, is preferable to Dessault’s kiotome. This instrument closed, that is, with the annular blades covering each other, and with the piercer retracted, is placed over the tonsil, which, projecting through the opening, is to be thrust through with the piercer; the movable stem is then pushed forward upon the immovable one, and the latter, at the same time, drawn back, so that the tonsil is taken off by the rings, of which the inner margins have each a cutting edge. Tying the tonsils is not to be preferred («) Itahd, Traite des Maladies de l'Oreille et de l’Audition, Paris, 1821, vol. ii. p. 174. (6) Froriep’s Chirurg. Kupfertafeln, pi. 447.