TREATMENT OF FRACTURES 392 than keeping it quiet and looking after its bowels; it never had a symptom ; left the house perfectly well, but with the skull indented as at first. (2) Asteey Cooper speaks of a “ curious fracture of the skull which occasionally happens over the frontal sinuses. When the fracture is simple, if the uose be blown, the air escapes through the opening in the bone into the cellular membrane under the skin, and renders the forehead emphysematous. If, on the other hand, the fracture be compound, upon blowing the nose the air rushes through the wound, so that, in either case the nature of the accident may be easily ascertained.” (p. 296.) This is a very rare accident. I have only once seen an instance of a simple one, and in this the air made its way into the cellular tissue beneath the upper eyelids and closed them. No dangerous consequences followed the injury. (3) Care must be taken, especially by young practitioners, in deciding on the existence of fracture with depression, when there is no external wound, as the depression is often only seeming and not real. Upon this point Asti.ey Cooper observes:—“A person receives a blow on the scalp; the parts immediately surrounding the spot where the blow was received swell from the extravasation of blood; but at the part on which the blow directly fell, the cellular membrane, having been condensed by the injury, will not receive the extravasated blood; thus the surrounding parts are considerably higher than the middle.” (p. 301.) The exact state of the case can, however, be ascer- tained without much difficulty, if the seeming depression originate from the cause just mentioned ; firm pressure on the elevated part for a few minutes will diffuse the out- poured blood into the surrounding cellular tissue, and the apparent depression will disappear; but if there be actual depression, the pressure of course will not make any i alteration in the hollow formed by the driving down of the bone.—J.F.S.] 395. Fractures with impression of the skull always require immediate , trepanning-, although unaccompanied with symptoms of pressure and irrita- tion of the brain. These occur earlier or later, and then no benefit is derived from the operation The object of trepanning is to raise the inpressed bone, to remove the extravasation and the splinters of bone, and to prevent after- collections in the cavity of the skull. Trepanning is only superfluous when, from the condition of the wound, it is possible to remove carefully the splinters or completely broken-off pieces, and to let the extravasation escape. It may be hoped in children who have fracture with impression, that with proper antiphlogistic curative means, nature will accommodate the brain to the pressure, if the indent be not upon a blood sinus, in which case it must be at once trepanned. [Chelius does not appear to make any difference in the treatment of simple fracture with depression, and of that which is compound or accompanied with wound of the scalp; but in both cases, whether symptoms of pressure on the brain do or do not exist, immediately proceeds to trephine, and removes the depressed bone. The cases, how- ever, require different treatment if the fracture be simple, but if compound the same « practice is proper for both. If the fracture be simple and unaccompanied with symptoms of pressure, no incision is to be made through the scalp upon it, and much less should it be trephined. Astley Cooper observes on this point:—“ If the fracture be simple and j there be no wound in the scalp, and no symptom of injury to the brain, it would be wrong to make an incision into the part, and perform the operation of trephining; for, i by making such an incision, you add greatly to the danger of the patient, as you may make what was before a simple, a compound fracture, and consequently greatly increase S the danger of inflammation, which rarely follows fracture with depression, where the fracture is simple, but is a very frequent consequence of a compound fracture, which is produced by making an incision in the scalp. Never make an incision therefore when you can avoid it, or merely because there is a fracture with depression, if there be no symptoms of injury to the brain. Even if there be symptoms of injury to the brain, and the fracture be simple, do not immediately trepan. Take avray blood and purge I your patient freely, and see how far the symptoms may be the result of concussion of I the brain, and not of depression. If the symptoms do not yield to depletion, then, and I not till then, perform the operation of trephining.” (pp. 303, 304.) Abernethy also holds the same opinion. “It appears very clearly,” says he, “that I a slight degree of pressure does not derange the functions of the brain for a limited J time after its application. That it does not do so at first is very obvious, as persons are |