TETANUS, 378 ceptible intermission. In the quick course of tetanus there is complete loss of sleep ; but, when it is more protracted, the sleep is restless, anxious, and short. The voice is always indistinct, and quite faint. Swallowing becomes more difficult, impossible ; and there is often the same dread of Huids as in hydrophobia. f“ It has been observed,” says Lawrence (a), “ that a state of costiveness precedes - tetanic symptoms; and Mr. Abernethy has made this a particular subject of inquiry; at least he has pointed out this question as one that should be held in view in the patho- logical consideration of the subject; that is to say, he has made it our business to in- quire what is the condition of the digestive organs of the patient prior to the occurrence of the tetanic symptoms,—between the receipt of the injury and the development of tetanus ? Obviously, himself, being of opinion that the injury, in the first place, produces derangement of the digestive organs, that that deranged condition of the digestive organs disturbs the spinal cord, and probably the whole system; and further, perhaps, that this derangement of the spinal cord and system is the affection which constitutes tetanus. This seems a rational and probable conjecture as to the mode in which tetanus is produced.” (p. 587.)] 373. Iu the third stage, the muscles of the chest and the diaphragm are attacked with cramp. Respiration is checked, the circulation of the blood is irregular, and death ensues, either suddenly, in which case the cramp attacks the heart, or from apoplexy, or from palsy. [“ As tetanus appears to attack parts not necessary to life, it seems strange” observes John Hunter, “ how it kills ; and, seemingly, the patient is in good health at the time, without inflammation, and with a good appetite; and yet, though not starved to death, I from the difficulty of deglutition, it kills ; however, it is sometimes combined with other diseases, and then it is difficult to say which disease kills; but when it is alone, the following seems to be the case: the disposition increases, and the effect, spreading to vital parts, affects the muscles of respiration, as the diaphragm and intercostal and abdominal : muscles, as we see in gout when it attacks a vital part.” (p. 587.)] 374 At first the tetanic patients are perfectly sensible; in the subsequent course of the disease the conceptions are confused. There is always some irregularity of the pulse. If fever and internal inflammation be present, the pulse is hard and quickened, and the result is generally soon fatal. Tetanus often destroys in from two to four days; frequently it continues longer, and even for several weeks. [Samuel Cooper (6) mentions a case, under his care, of a patient who lingered five weeks with chronic tetanus before he died. (p. 1229.)] 375. The proximate cause of tetanus is very probably an inflammatory condition of the nervous system ; at least the examination of bodies has shown inflammation of the nerves and their sheaths, of the spinal marrow i and brain, with effusion of a watery fluid between their membranes. The spinal marrow, especially, is found affected, and if, in all cases, there be not traces of distinct inflammation, there may be, however, a state of simple ] irritation or congestion. In one case I found the most decided signs of inflammation in the spinal marrow, and itself dissolved to the extent of an inch into a pultaceous mass. Froriep, R. (c), considers local nervous inflammation as the cause of tetanus and sup- poses that the general nervous irritability arises secondarily from it in the course of the nervous trunks, and that it is kept up till the patient is exhausted. He had observed in I seven cases a direct injury of a nerve from pressure or immediate wound. The injured \ nerve always shows a peculiar inflammation, knotty swellings and redness on several I parts of its course. In one case of wound of the inner plantar nerve, the tetanic cramp j could be produced at will by pressing on the posterior tibial nerve at the inner ankle. Friederick (d) has collected cases which prove inflammation of the nerves in traumatic | (a) Lectures in Lancet, 1829, 30, vol. i. (d) Diss. de Tetano traumatico. Berol, 183i- I (l>) Surgical Dictionary. For the literary history of Tetanus, in Caspers , (c) Neue Notizen, 1837, Jan. No. I. Wochenschrift, 1828. No. 29, 30.