528 FRACTURES OF THE [I once saw a very remarkable accident in which a man received a violent blow on the face from the handle of a crane whilst flying round. All the bones of the face, excepting the lower jaw, were separated from the skull, partly broken from it and perhaps torn from it at the harmonies. The nose, cheek, and upper jaw-bones were broken and crushed, so that the whole face below the eyes, including the floors of the orbits, could be moved with the least effort, and yielded in every way to pressure of the fingers, just as would beans in a bag. Externally there was only a slight graze, but he bled from the nose and mouth, the lining membranes of which were torn. In the course of a few hours the face swelled considerably from the effusion of blood, and entirely lost its shape. Nothing was done beyond the application of an evaporating lotion, the swelling subsided in the course of a short time, and he recovered after having had a little exfoliation from the mouth and nose; but a shallow furrow across the face and a broken nose-bridge were the result of the injury. He lived many years after, and a cast of his head is in our Museum.—J. F. S.J III.—OF FRACTURES OF THE LOWER JAW. (Fractura Ossis Maxillaris inferioris, Lat.; Bruche des Unterkiefers, Germ.; Fracture de la Machoire infe'rieure, Fr.) 601. Fracture of the Lower Jaw is rare, partly on account of the strength of the bone, and partly on account of the great mobility of the jaw. The fracture takes place either between the middle of the bone and the insertion of the m. viasseter (the fracture of the middle of the bone itself is extremely rare (a) ) ; or between the insertion of that muscle and the coronoid process, (fracture of the angle of the jaw,) or the coro- noid and condyloid processes are themselves broken off. The direction of the fracture is either horizontal, vertical, or more or less oblique. The lower jaw may be broken at the same time in several places. Most com- monly there is much bruising and injury of the soft parts, tearing of the nerves and of the accompanying vessels passing through the infra- maxillary canal, which produce nervous symptoms, convulsive motions of the muscles of the face, severe pain, deafness, or violent bleeding (1). The ends of the broken bone are generally displaced ; the piece on which is the chin (symphysis) is drawn down by the action of the depressing muscles, and the other piece upwards by those which raise the jaw; and this happens so much the more as the fracture is farther distant from the chin. If the fracture be oblique, the front broken end is always drawn back. In double fracture the middle portion is always decidedly dis- placed downwards. In fractures of the angle of the jaw, the broken ends are little or not at all displaced ; and in that of the neck of the condyle it is drawn forwards by the m. pterygoideus externus, whilst the rest of the jaw retains its natural position. [ (1) It cannot be denied that the serious symptoms just mentioned may occur, but I have never seen them, not even when the fracture has been compound, which is an un- common accident. Simple fracture of the sides of the jaw, near the bicuspid teeth, frequently occurs, as the result of a blow with the fist; but I have never seen fracture of the ascending plate that I recollect.—J. F. S.] 602. The diagnosis of this fracture depends on the preceding violence, on the severity of the pain, on the unevenness of the base of the jaw, and of the row of the teeth, and on the crepitation when the broken ends are moved up and down, which is the only sign of fracture without displace- ment. In double fracture the displacement is usually considerable. In fracture of the neck of the jaw, the forward displacement of the condyle (n) Rouyer, Journal General ile Medecine, April, ISOS.