202 TREATMENT OF [As Dupuytren observes, “ the formation of this second species will be better under- stood after saying a few words on the anatomical structure of the nail. Its adherent extremity, the only part at present needing study, is implanted in the skin in a peculiar manner; the latter, having passed on the dorsal surface of the nail, is reflected, and, having reached the hind end, divides, into two portions, the epidermis which covers the whole superficial layer, and the cutis which passes beneath the nail, and is continuous with the skin covering the free extremity of the finger. The cul de sac, in which this part of the nail is received, is called the matrix. It is, then, very important to be acquainted with this disposition of the organ, as fully explaining why the nail received into the flesh is, in many cases, only produced by the ramming in (refoulement) of its free extremity into the cul de sac. This alteration may take place in consequence of the running over, or fall of a heavy weight upon the great toe. Whatever may be the cause, the patient at first complains when walking of a pain which gradually increases; the kind of cul de sac, lodging the base of the nail, reddens and inflames, as well as the bottom of the fold which receives its lateral edges; ulceration is soon observed, which makes rapid progress; its form becomes semilunar, its edges elevated and hard, its base red, violet, and livid. The nail shortens and diminishes to half its size, sometimes even entirely disappears, and in its stead are observed, here and there, pencils of horny substance; often, also, part of the nail is hidden under fungous flesh. These fungosities serve to distinguish this disease, resulting from primitive alteration of the skin, from that consequent on the nail digging into the flesh. When the disease is caused by the nail, the fungosities originating from the inflammation occur on the front and sides of the nail; but when, on the contrary, it depends on the affection of the skin, the fungosities are always observed at the root of the nail. The colour of the nail in these cases is gray and black; sometimes it does not re- tain its ordinary connexions; the sore is generally bathed in a sanious or sanguinolent suppuration, and spreads far and wide a fetid smell. If the patient walk, or even re- main standing upright, the fungosities bleed: every kind of shoe is unbearable, and the least rubbing is extremely painful. In general it is impossible to remain in the same place with persons who have this disease, as the stench which circulates around them, and clings to their clothes, is infectious and penetrating, being produced by the union of the ichorous pus oozing from the bottom of the ulcer, and the copious sweat which the feet of these patients secrete.” (p. 61-4.) Colles mentions:—“ When the original nail has been cast off1, we usually see project- ing from the sides, and tarsal border of the ulcer, a narrow plate of a white substance, not unlike white leather soaked in water; this sometimes forms one continuous shelf all around the ulcerated border, projecting in a peculiarly prominent manner, that is, rather at an angle to, instead of being a plane parallel with, the dorsal surface of the phalanx. In some cases this white substance (which is the result of an abortive attempt to produce a true nail) appears only in detached spots or flakes, the intermediate parts of the ul- cerated margin being devoid of any such growths; they are most frequently seen at the posterior and anterior angles of the nail, but occasionally in other parts of the circum- ference. The surrounding integument is discoloured, being often of a livid or purplish tint; it is also indurated, and exudes a copious perspiration, of a peculiar heavy odour. This ulceration sometimes induces caries of the bone, and even extends to the phalangeal articulation.” (p. 246.) Wardrop says:—“ In this state I have seen the disease continue for several years, so, that the toe or finger became a deformed bulbous mass. The pain is sometimes very acute, but the disease is more commonly indolent, and accompanied with little uneasiness. It affects both the toes and the fingers. I have only observed it on the great toe, and more frequently on the thumb than any of the fingers. It occurs, too, chiefly in young people; but I have also seen adults affected with it.” (p. 136.) “ When the disease, more especially, attacks that part of the skin immediately beneath the nail, then,” says Dupuytren, “ is it observed to be raised by the development of little tumours, the presence of which cause pain in proportion as the pressure is more consi- derable. They are of different kinds, fibrous, cartilaginous, bony or vascular; and the proof of their development, simply depending on alteration of the cutis covering the nail, is, that if they are removed, without, also, taking away the skin from whence they spring, the skin generally, again, becomes diseased, ulcerates, and sooner or later requires com- plete removal.” (p. 64.)—J. F. S.] 196. The causes of this disease are either local, mechanical, or chemical, for instance in persons having much to do with alkalies; or general', her- petic, but especially syphilitic, dyscracy. Several fingers and toes of both