SCORBUTIC ULCERS; 620 day, whether the discharge be much or little, as by the patient’s movements it slackens, and does not give the necessary support, unless daily reapplied.—J. F. S.] 763. With this local treatment must be connected internal treatment pro- portioned to the state of the patient. In weakness and want of tone strengthening' remedies must be used ; if there be stoppage of the bowels, which is very often connected with ulcers on the lower extremities, purga- tive and gently strengthening remedies with a regulated diet must be employed. The gratiola in suitable doses is advisable in these cases, as well also as when there is no stoppage in the bowels, but a general slug- gishness and phlegmatic habit. 764. Relapses after the healing of atonic ulcers are very frequent, espe- cially if the occasional causes be not diminished. They usually break out iu autumn or in winter. The best mode of preventing them is perseverance in moderate compression of the foot by a laced stocking of unyielding leather ; at the same time a proper diet is to be observed, and every violent motion of the foot to be avoided. II.—OF SCORBUTIC ULCERS. Anson, George, afterwards Lore* Anson, A Voyage round the World, in the years 1740-4, London, 1748, 4to., contains the best account of Sea Scurvy. Lind, Jas., M. D., A Treatise on the Scurvy. Edinb., 1753. 8vo. Hulme, Libellus de natura, causa et curatione Scorbuti. London, 1768. Milman, Sir Francis, Bart., An Enquiry into the source from whence the symptoms of Scurvy and of Putrid Fevers arise and into the seat which those affections occupy in the Animal (Economy, &c. London, 1782. 8vo. Blane, G., M. D., Observations on the Diseases incident to Seamen. London, 1785. 8vo. Trotter, Thos., M. D., Observations on the Scurvy, &c. London, 1792. 8vo. 765. Scorbutic Ulcers ( Ulcera scorbutica, Lat. ; scorbutischen Gesch- iviire, Germ. ; Ulceres scorbutiques, Fr.) are always indications of more or less developed scurvy. The immediate cause of scurvy is a disposition in the blood and other juices to decomposition and breaking up with predomin- ating weakness of the capillary vascular system. Its symptoms are therefore all grounded on weakness, flabbiness, decay or entire destruction of the con- tractility of parts, which especially show themselves in the vascular system. The natural colour of the skin fails, it becomes pale and pufly ; the patient feels a general weakness, and tires with the slightest motion. The gums begin to be painful, swell and bleed on the slightest touch; the breath stinks. Upon the surface of the body appear here and there, especially upon the feet, bluish spots of various size, which spread and often enlarge into streaks. In hot climates oedematous swellings of the limbs occur. Mostly there appear on the skin small swellings with blad- ders, which drop in and are followed by purple-coloured spots. Pains come on in the feet, swellings of the knee-joints, ulcers, and frequent bleed- ings from the gums. The weakness becomes very great; the patient spits, coughs, and vomits blood ; loses blood with his urine and by stool. The gums are often gangrenous; the blood is poured out in every inter- space ; old scars break out, and the weakness from repeated bleeding is so great that the patient faints on the least movement. He dies either in such fainting or of consumption.