DISLOCATION OF THE SPLINT-BONE. 806 1087. The reduction of these dislocations is not usually accompanied with difficulty. Sufficient extension of the leg is made, and then the displaced joint-end of the shin-bone is pressed into its place, one hand grasping it, whilst the other has hold of the lower end of the thigh-bone. After the reduction, inflammation must be prevented or got rid of, and the union of the ligaments effected, by strict antiphlogistic treatment, and by keeping the limb quiet, fastening it up in a pair of splints. When all swelling and pain have subsided the limb may be cautiously moved. If the joint remain weak, volatile rubbings must be employed, and a knee- band used for some time to give support. If the inflammation be severe, anchylosis, suppuration, gangrene, and so on, may take place, and the treatment must be guided according to the rules laid down for wounds of joints. If the joint-ends of the bones be thrust through the skin, there may be such destruction, that immediate amputation is requisite. Single cases in which the preservation of the limb is possible cannot refute these principles. If tlie ligaments connecting the semi-lunar cartilages with the shin-bone he relaxed, they may by external violence, by pushing with the toes of the outward-turned foot and so on, remove the semi-lunar cartilages from their position. At the same time severe pain, swelling, incapability of stretching out the foot, without much alteration of form in the knee come on. The natural position of the cartilages is most certainly restored, w'hen the leg is bent back as much as possible, by which the pressure of the thigh-bone on the semi-lunar cartilages is removed, and they return to their place, when the leg is extended. The weakness of the joints is to be removed, by volatile rubbings and the like, and the recurrence of this accident prevented, by a properly applied knee-band (Astlky Cooper.) Wutzer (a) observed a congenital bending forwards of both legs, depending on dis- location at the knee-joint. Kleberg (/>) describes a congenital dislocation of the left knee forwards, where, with the thigh extended, the leg was bent forward at the knee, and lay obliquely upwards in such way, that the points of the toes touched the right side of the belly ; the legs could be easily returned to their natural position; they, how- ever, immediately resumed their previous position, whilst the child himself had not any voluntary influence over their movements. Bending the leg back against the thigh to an obtuse angle, and fixing it in this position, b)' a thin cloth passed round the middle of the thigh and leg, in a short time restored the natural position and mobility of the leg. XIII.—OF DISLOCATION OF THE SPLINT-BONE. (Lvxatio Fibulce, Lat.; Verrenkung des Wadenbeines, Germ.; Luxation du Perond, Fr.) Boyer, above cited, vol. iv. p. 375. 1088. The splint-hone may be dislocated at its upper or lower end, forwards or backwards. This can always be readily distinguished, as the head of the bone can be felt if there be not any considerable swelling. In order to reduce this dislocation, it is only necessary to press the dis- located head into its place, and to fix it there with compresses and bandages. The dislocation of the upper end may be accompanied with fracture of the shin-bone, in which with the reduction of the fracture follows also that of the dislocation. 1STot unfrequently, owing to relaxation of the ligaments, dislocation of the upper end of the splint-bone lakes place; its reduction in this case is easy, but just as speedily does the displacement recur. The bone is to be kept in place by rest, and by fixing it with bandages; the weakness of the joint should be sought to be removed by friction, blistering, and the like. (a) Muli.er's Archiv. fi'ir Anatomie und Physiologie, 1825, pt. iv. p. 385. (6) Hamburger Zeitschrift, vol. vi. pt. ii.