227 CARTILAGE. “ Cartilages do not receive vessels carrying red blood, although in cutting them distinct vessels are frequently observed in their substance.” Bichat (a) observes that in carti- lage “no blood-vessels are distinguishable. The exhalant system carries only white juices; but as this system is continued to the arteries of the neighbouring parts, so that the organic sensibility is there elevated by weak irritants, and so brought into relation with the red globules of the blood, that they pass readily, whence arises the redness which cartilage assumes, as seen in inflammation, wounds, &c. It is exactly the same as occurs in inflamed conjunctiva, &c. When the irritation ceases, the sensi- bility resumes its natural type, and the red globules at the same time become alien to the cartilage, which recovers its whiteness. We know not the nature of the white fluids ordinarily circulating in the vascular system of cartilage. They are very susceptible of becoming the vehicle of the bile, or, at least, of its colouring substance, when diffused throughout the animal economy in jaundice.” (p. 129-30.) Muller (i) states, that “ in tendons, ligaments, and cartilage, there are blood-vessels, but few in number.” (p. 362.) In Brodie’s opinion the cartilages are vascular. He says:—“ Up to the period of growth being concluded, we must suppose the articular cartilages to be vascular, otherwise we cannot account for the changes of bulk and figure which mark their progress towards complete development. In the child, canals or sinuses may be seen ramifying through their substance, containing blood, and manifestly intended to answer the purposes, though not constructed with the distinct tunics of ordinary blood-vessels. In the adult person these canals for the distribution of blood are not perceptible. This proves that they are very minute, but not that they are altogether wanting.” (p. 111.) He also supports his opinion by the analogy of “ the transparent cornea of the eye, in which no vascular structure can be detected under ordinary circumstances, but the existence of vessels in it is proved by the changes which it undergoes in disease; and when it is inflamed such vessels become distinctly visible, injected with red blood. So we meet with occasional though rare instances of vessels containing red blood extending from a diseased bone into the cartilage covering it.” Also by the exposure of the joint cartilages to friction without being affected by it, which “ cannot be explained unless we admit the cartilages to possess a power of reparation ; and this must be supposed to depend, as in other tex- tures, on the action of blood-vessels modified by that of the absorbents.” And lastly, he brings forward the occasional conversion of an articular cartilage “ into a number of ligamentous fibres, each of which is connected by one extremity to the bone, whilst the other is loose towards the cavity of the joint. Here is a morbid alteration of struc- * ture, the occurrence of which seems to indicate that there must be such a vascular appa- ratus entering into the formation of cartilage as enables new materials to be deposited and old materials to be absorbed, and without which morbid alterations of structure do not take place in other parts of the body.” (p. 111-13.) Toynbee, however, asserts, that “ into the substance of healthy cartilage he has never i] been able to trace blood-vessels, and his researches induce him to believe that they do 1 not possess any. (p. 170.) Of the same opinion, also, is Beclard (c), who says:—“ These cartilages have no vessels; delicate injections and microscopic examinations exhibit the I capillary vessels terminating at the circumference and adhering surface without ever t penetrating their substance.” (p. 466.) And Cruvelhier (d) still more decidedly affirms, that “the diarthrodial cartilages do not present any trace of organization.” (p. 162.) The importance of the subject will, I trust, be sufficient apology in regard to this long > anatomical digression, in which it will be observed that William Hunter appears to have held generally very correct views on the structure of cartilage, excepting as to its a fibrous character. The reader will also be struck with the near resemblance of the i opinions held by Toynbee and Henle. I have, indeed, mentioned those of the latter e author first, as in the course of the narrative it was convenient so to do. But the state- * ments of both were published in the same year, and it is scarcely possible that either i could have had knowledge of the views of the other.—J. F. S.] At first, the patient feels only little and passing pain, which is increased hy the motions of the joint, lint ceases when it is at rest. It gradually becomes continuous, and spreads from the joint over the bones. After several weeks or months, the swelling of the joint is affected with a slight external inflammation. This swelling is neither great nor fluctuating, and has pretty much the form of the joint. After a shorter or longer time, r m ;Vla,,°mie Generate, vol. iii. Edit. 1812. (c) Anatomie Generate. "ant^uch der Physiologie, yol. i. CoblenU, (d) Observations sur les Cartilages Piarthro- diaux; in Archives Generates de Medecine, vol. iv. Q 2