TREATMENT OF 168 of rape, for instance, the consequences of syphilitic infection are often brought forward as a proof. Well! what practitioner would not, in the present state of science, seeing a man, affected with gonorrhoea, accused of having violated a woman actually infected with chan- cre, have regarded this pretended coincidence as a proof of great value ? But when it is incontestibly known that chancre alone can produce chancre, if the gonorrhoeal muco-pus of the individual supposed to be guilty, produces nothing upon inoculation, after having been properly tried, will it not be evident, in a case of recent infection, that he cannot be convicted ? And, again, would it not be proved by the same mode of experimenting, that individuals accused of having communicated the pox, which must aggravate the position of all persons thus accused, have only caused by mechanical violence, or by the action of some morbid or normal secretion, simple inflammations.” (p. 94; Fr. edit., p. 197.) 161. The cure of gonorrhoea is directed by its severity. In slight cases the patient should drink whey, almond emulsion, linseed tea and such like, a mild diet used, abstinence from all irritating or heat- ing things ; rest, support of the testicles with suspensory bandage, frequent bathing of the penis in luke-warm water, which subsequently, also, for the sake of cleanliness, is to be continued. If the inflammation and pain be more severe, the following additional treatment according to circumstances must be resorted to; bleeding, leeches at the root)of the penis or its neighbourhood, and softening bread poultices. Purgatives, recommended by many in gonorrhoea, are generally more hurtful than useful, and, if necessary on account of impurities in the bowels, should be of the mildest kind, as manna, tamarinds, and not salts, which irritate the urinary passages. [“ The venereal inflammation (or rather the gonorrhoeal inflammation—J. F. s.) is not kept up,” says Hunter, “ by the pus which is formed, but, like many other specific diseases, by the specific quality of the inflammation itself. This inflammation, however, it would appear, can only last a limited time; the symptoms peculiar to it vanishing of themselves, by the parts becoming less and less susceptible of irritation. This circum- stance is not peculiar to this particular form of the venereal disease ; it is perhaps com- mon to almost every disease that can affect the human body. * * * As the living prin- ciple in many diseases is not capable of continuing the same action, it also loses this power in the present, when the disease is in the form of a gonorrhoea, and the effect is at last stopped, the irritation ceasing gradually. This cessation will vary according to circumstances; for, if the irritated parts are in a state very susceptible of such irritations, in all probability their action will be more violent and continue longer : but, in all cases, the difference must arise from the difference in the constitution, and not from any dif- ference in the poison itself. The circumstance of the disease ceasing spontaneously, only happens when it attacks a secreting surface and when a secretion of pus is pro- duced. * * * Gonorrhoea cures itself, whilst the other forms of the disease require the assistance of art. (pp. 36, 7.) Gonorrhoea may be cured while there is a chancre, and vice versa.” (p. 38.) (It is very remarkable that, with these facts staring him in the face, Hunter should have persisted in his opinion that gonorrhoea and chancre were one and the same disease.—j. f. s.) “ How far the gonorrhoea in women is capable of wearing itself out, as in men, I cannot absolutely determine; but am much inclined to believe that it would: for I have known many women who have got rid of a violent gonorrhoea without using any means to cure it; and indeed the great variety of methods j of cure made use of in such cases, all of which cannot possibly do good, though the patients get well, seems to confirm this opinion.” (p. 59.) Hunter has made an observation in regard to gonorrhoea, which every one who has had the least experience must accord with, viz., that it is “ the most uncertain in the cure of any of the forms of this disease; many cases terminating in a week, while others | continue for months, though under the same treatment. The only thing necessary to be done for the cure is to destroy the disposition and specific mode of action in the solids of the parts, and as that is changed the poisonous quality of the matter produced will also be destroyed.” (p. 75.) This latter observation does not very well tally with what he says almost immediately after:—“ We have no specific medicine for gonorrhoea,’ although he comforts himself with “ it is therefore very reasonable to suppose that every such inflammation gets well of itself; yet, although this appears to be nearly