MORTIFICATION. 56 but his health had not suffered much. It was thought advisable to wait and see what might be the result. The limb increased in size, the skin gradually became more and more discoloured, and gangrenous in patches ; indistinct fluctuation was perceived : he was slowly worn out, and died. On examination, the whole limb was found distended with blood, some of which was coagulated, some fluid, and other mixed with pus. On removing the clots, which were principally about the femoral artery, a spurious • aneurism was found, the sac formed by the clot being as large as a hen’s egg around the wound made by the bayonet in the artery, which had not closed, and was rather bigger than a crow-quill. On one side of the sac, close to the vessel, was a small aperture, by which blood had continued escaping, probably up to his death, into the surrounding soft parts. Mortification of a limb, or at least of that part of it in the neighbourhood of an aneurismal sac (which is not uncommon if from any cause the vessel have not been tied at the proper time) in general depends simply on the distension from effusion, which at last bursts the skin. Mortification occasionally happens in simple fracture, from slow but continued effusion, and without wound of the principal artery or arteries of the limb. I have seen this once in a flour-porter, whose leg was broken by being jammed with a cart- • wheel; his constitution speedily took the alarm, and, though incisions were made through the skin to relieve the tension, he gradually became worse, and sunk into hectic, in which state his limb was removed; but he died a few hours after. Although from the first no pulsation could be felt in the tibial arteries, yet the examination after : death showed them uninjured and undiminished in size. Mortification I have also seen in one or two instances occurring from splints having . been applied previous to the subsidence of the swelling after fracture, and not propor- tionally loosened as the swelling increased. The two following are cases of mortification, resulting, the first from simple continued fever, and the second probably after scarlet fever:— Case 1.—J. J., forty-eight years of age, a hatter by occupation, of intemperate habits, is now— Aug. 1. Slowly recovering from an attack of fever which commenced seven weeks since. A sore on the inner ankle of the left leg, which he has had for eighteen months, about five weeks since became sloughy, and the surrounding skin was attacked with gangrene, which continued spreading till it has attained its present size, that of the hand. As yet there is not any line of demarcation, and the wound is very painful though cleaning. He is much emaciated, very weak, without appetite, cannot rest, his pulse extremely quick and almost imperceptible, (this may perhaps arise from exhaustion in bringing him to the hospital,) the countenance sunk and pallid, surface warm, but occasionally bathed in profuse sweats, tongue clean. I ordered for him five grains of carbonate of ammonia, with ten minims of tincture of hyoscyamus every six hours, six ounces of brandy and a pint of beef tea, with arrow-root daily. To the wound, chlorate of soda lotion and linseed-meal poultice. Aug. 2. Better, but without sleep. Twenty minims of tincture of opium at night. Aug. 4. Is improving; the wound is free from pain, and two or three granulations are seen in its centre ; the slough has rather increased. An abscess which has formed on the outside of the knee was opened, and a teaspoonful of thin but otherwise healthy pus discharged ; pulse improved ; he complains of sore throat, with difficulty in swal- lowing, and disposition to retch, but he takes plenty of fluid though he cannot manage solid food. As he wished for some porter, a pint daily was ordered. The mixture discontinued ; but twenty minims of tincture of opium in camphor mixture directed to be taken at night. Aug. 9. Is improving, and yesterday began taking a mutton chop. The slough has cleaned from the wound, leaving a sore surface which, occupying nearly two-thirds of the back and inner part of the leg, is now beginning to granulate. As the pus seemed disposed to bag on the outside of the instep, in consequence of the limb lying on its outside, the skin was cut through to prevent this, and a small abscess below the tubercle of the shin-bone opened. Aug. 15. Improving, and desiring more nourishment. Two pints of beef tea daily- Aug. 22. The wound almost completely cleaned, but the granulations are flabby and pale. An abscess which has formed at the upper part of the thigh was opened, and about an ounce of good pus evacuated. He wishes to have more porter, which wa* therefore increased to two pints, and the brandy diminished to four ounces. Nitric aciC wash to be applied to the wound. Sept. 2. During the last two or three days the granulations have been receding