695 ITS KINDS. new flexible tissues. When the entire thickness of a cylindrical hone dies, the first step towards regeneration consists in an attempt to get rid of the dead part, by the ab- sorbents forming a groove around the dead portion, gradually cutting it through and isolating it from the living. The next step, to a certain extent contemporaneous with the first, is the deposit of new osseous matter all around this groove, springing from the bone; the last, is the surrounding of the old bone with new, which begins to form before the old has separated, and continues after the connexion of the two has been quite dis- solved. Currie’s case (one he relates) appears to me to entitle us to answer the second and third queries in the negative ; the old bone was removed long before the new was deposited ; the process so far from being therefore arrested, was greatly accelerated, and the form of the new bone was much more symmetrical than if it had been deposited slowly around the old as a mould. It may be asked, if this viewT of the matter be correct, why is it not thrown off as is a slough of the cellular tissue ? I believe that the impedi- ments to its escape are mechanical and not physiological (physical ?); the soft parts which cover it, the irregular line in which it dies, and the vitality of the cancellous structure next to the epiphysis extending for some distance within the dead outer case, render its escape impossible long after its presence has become a source of retarding, it may be, of fatal iritation.” (p. 684.) “ So soon as any bony part, in which there has been previous sensible or insensible ex- foliation, is covered with granulations, the process,” says Miescher, “ is the same as with another suppurating wound : the same pus, the same granulations. These having attained the height of the granulations of the surrounding soft parts, coalesce with them and as it were become one; after which the scar is covered in the ordinary way. That part of the granulations immediately next the bone, is converted into bony substance ; but the exterior layer is not so changed, but like the granulations of soft parts has a cellular structure, and thus as it were forms a new periosteum.” (p. 208.) John Hunter observes:—“ There can only be two species of exfoliation, viz. external and internal, but they are often mixed, and then admit of a third kind, which I call the inclosed exfoliation. The external arises from internal causes, and is in many parts a simple operation, meeting with no obstructions, as in the head, ribs, &c.; but in the extremities it is often complicated, and becomes inclosed, and then appears as an in- ternal exfoliation. Internal Exfoliation.—These less frequently arise from accidents than the former; but may arise from the two last suppurations of bones (of which, the one is where only one side of the bone suppurates, and the other where the suppuration is in the medullary cavity.) The part which is to be exfoliated loses its life, and ulcera- tion goes on in the internal surface of the surrounding living bone to make room for the exfoliation. In internal exfoliations a part of the centre of the bone becomes dead, while the enlargement of the cavity lessens the substance of the surrounding part, and consequently weakens that part. But nature wishes to furnish a substitute; for the stimulus of weakness being felt, the surrounding parts become affected, and undergo the ossific inflammation by which the bone is thickened ; and this continues in propor- tion, and as long as the internal part is unremoved or not cast off. Mixed Cases of Ex- foliation.—The first is when an external one appears to be internal; the second is an exfoliation of the whole thickness of the bone in one part; the third, of the whole bone. These I call inclosed or incased exfoliations, generally occurring in the lower extremities. These three being very different, at first are not very easily conceived. First species of inclosed. Sometimes when the surface of a bone becomes dead, before the separation of the piece of bone takes place, the ossific inflammation comes on, and^ entirely covers the exfoliating piece, leaving only a little hole for the discharge of matter. This takes place, first, when the periosteum is inflamed, and the granulations from the edges of the exfoliated pieces also ossify; but the process for freeing the por- tion of bone has been already described. The second species is when a piece of any given length becomes dead throughout; the appearance of internal exfoliation is here still stronger than in the last case. Exfoliation or separation begins on the living surfaces of contact, at the two ends of the dead bone or piece, and ossific inflamma- tion comes on in the surrounding parts, so that it becomes incased. This rarely hap- pens; but when it does, the separation of the exfoliated piece is very tedious, as the stimulus is given to all surrounding parts. The third species is where the ossific dis- position takes place in the soft parts, from end to end, and the whole becomes inclosed in a case of bone. The difficulty lies in conceiving how it becomes inclosed at the ends where the joints are constituted; but probably it is from these ends being alive, and ex- uding coagulable lymph from their surfaces, or else from lymph being exuded from the surrounding ligaments, and that becoming a basis, so as to keep the joint complete, (pp. 529, 30.)]