453 CONSEQUENT INFLAMMATION OF LUNGS, &c. nallydid, the side of the chest to which it belongs. Whenever the orifice in the tegu- ments is open, the air has a free passage through it, and continues to he forced out at every attempt at expiration until the process of adhesion has taken place, if not prevented by art. If the lung lies collapsed at the bottom of the thoracic cavity, and that the external wound is healed up before it has resumed its natural inflated state, any small portion of air that may remain there is soon decomposed or absorbed. In many cases, however, where adhesion exists, or has subsequently taken place, between the wounded lung and the thoracic pleura, air in small quantities continues to be discharged through the external orifice, (whenever the dressings are removed,) until it is perfectly healed, without any serious inconvenience to the patient.” (pp. 377, 78.)] 501. Protrusion of a Portion of the Lung in Wounds of the Chest is rare. It cannot arise, as lias been falsely held (a), from expansion of the lungs, but from the air in expiration streaming violently out of the wound, which, as it is partially behind the lungs, forces, by its violent escape, the edge of one or other lobe of the lung into the wound. At least in animals I have never seen any other part protruded (l>). If the protru- sion be recent, the lung healthy, and the condition of the wound permit, it must as quickly as possible be gently returned. In general it is ne- cessary to enlarge the wound for this purpose. To prevent its repro- 1 trusion, the wound must be properly closed and covered with a compress, which is to be fastened with a bandage. If the protrusion have existed long, if the protruded part be in a state of gangrene from the constriction, a ligature must be put on its base, and the protruded gangrenous part cut off in front, or left to itself. [“ The sinking of the lung is not,” according to IIennen, “ an uniform conse- quence of a penetrating wound of the thorax. We have sometimes ocular proof of this, not only by the close contact in which the lungs lie to the wound, discoverable at first sight, but by protrusions which occasionally happen, and which, in the hands of the older surgeons, were removed by the knife,—a practice now rejected, and gentle pressure substituted.” (p. 378.)] 502. Inflammation of the Lungs and Pleura, which are always to be feared in penetrating wounds of the chest must be prevented or moderated by the strictest antiphlogistic treatment. The patient must be kept in the greatest bodily and mental quiet; he must not speak ; and take only cooling drinks and food. Nitre is to be given internally, attention paid to keeping the bowels open, and repetition of the bleeding as often and as largely as the condition of the patient may seem to require. Inflammation of the lungs and pleura may proceed to infiltration of the lungs with blood, to suppuration, or serous effusion into the cavity of the pleura. The suppuration of the lungs forms an abscess, which empties itself either by the mouth or into the cavity of the chest. In the latter case, and in serous collections in the cavities of the pleura, symptoms of extravasation appear, and opening the chest becomes necessary. [“ Inflammation of the lung,” says Astley Cooper, “ is to be guarded against by large and repeated bleedings, determined by the dyspnoea and hardness of the pulse ; but there is little danger of bleeding too much in one of these cases, as it is an object not only to diminish the force of the circulation, but the quantity of blood in the pulmonary vessels. If effusion follows, it is the result of neglected inflammation, or of having closed the external wound too early. In the one case it is a purulent secretion ; in the other a bloody serum, which produces the dyspnoea some days after the accident. For effusion into the chest, it is right to perform the operation for paracentesis thoracis, to draw off the pus or bloody serum which has collected. * * * In old persons there is great danger in fractured ribs with wounded lungs, and I always give a guarded opinion, for I have seen several die from effusion of fluid into the cellular tissue of the lung. The greatest (a) Richter, Anfangsgriinde, vol. iv. p. 441.— —IIai.i.iday, Observations on Emphysema. Lon- Maiow, De Respiratione, Lugd.liatav., 1071, p. 5. don, 1S07. (6) Sri ess, above cited.