I 456 WOUNDS OF Jobert, Reflexions sur les Plaies Pe'netrantes du Coeur; in the Archives Generates de Medecine. Sept. 1839. 505. Only the most strict antiphlogistic treatment can in these wounds be employed. If extravasation into the pericardium take place, the making an aperture in it is the only although very doubtful remedy. [505.* Wounds of the pericardium sometimes occur without injury of the heart, and may be fatal (1) or not (2). (1) Astley Cooper mentions a case in which a man was “ wounded by another with a reaping-hook deeply through the cartilages of the ribs. The wound was small, but deep; and the man had the appearance of one who had sustained a dangerous injury. In two or three days after he had much pain in the region of the heart; a quick small pulse. In a few days more he began to swell, and could not lie down in bed. I forget how long he lived, but think for a fortnight or three weeks; and after his death, it was discovered that the hook had passed through the cartilages of the ribs into the pericar- dium, in which there was an effusion of bloody pus.” (p. 232.) (2) Hennen relates a case of a bayonet wound of the pericardium and diaphragm. The patient recovered of the immediate effects of the injury, and died three months after of pneumonia. The aperture was large enough to admit the finger, and through it protruded a fatty pellicle or tongue fully an inch long and the fifth of an inch wide, convex and lobulated in front, but smooth and flat behind, and originating from the front of the heart an inch and a-half from its tip. A little above this the heart was con- nected to the pericardium by long, broad, and strong fibrous bands, evidently the result of inflammation long before his last illness, (pp. 397, 98.)] 506. Injuries of the. Gullet, Thoracic Duct, Diaphragm, and Spinal Marrow, may be connected Avith penetrating wounds of the chest. As in these cases there must be always at the same time injury of the most highly important parts, the mortal result is usually not to be prevented. Wounds of the diaphragm, especially of its tendinous part, are always acccompanied with the most severe pain, anxiety, cramps, and convulsions, against which a strictly antiphlogistic treatment must be employed. If the wound in the diaphragm be large, the intestines of the belly may pass through the opening into the cavity of the chest. Upon injuries of the spinal marrow, compare Caspar in Rust’s Magazin, vol. xiv. part iii. p. 409. V.—OF WOUNDS OF THE BELLY. Travers, Benjamin, An Inquiry into the Process of Nature in repairing Injuries of the Intestines; illustrating the Treatment of Penetrating Wounds and Strangulated Hernia. London, 1812. 8vo. Scarpa, Sull’ Ernie, Memorie Anatomico-Chirurgiche. Milan, 1809. fol.—The same translated. A Treatise on Hernia, ivith Notes, by J. H. Wishart. Edinb., 1814. 8vo. Fingerhuth, Dissert, de Vulnerum in Intestinis Sutura. Bonn, 1827. Jobert, A. J., Traite Thcorique et Pratique des Maladies Chirurgicales du Canal Intestinal. Paris, 1829. vol. i. p. 52. Weber, H. L., De Curandis Intestinorum Vulneribus. Accedunt quaedam Plagis Ventriculi atque Abdominis. Berol., 1830. 4to. 507. Wounds of the Belly (Vulnera Abdominis) are, 1, Superficial; 2, Simply Penetrating ; 3, Penetrating, connected with injury of the Organs of Digestion, or of' the Uropoictic System. 508. Superficial Wounds of the Belly. These are distinguished by some peculiar symptoms from the superficial wounds of other parts. In injury of the tendinous sheaths of the abdominal muscles, especially from oblique stabs, severe inflammation, fever, pain, and vomiting quickly,