530 FRACTURE OF THE TONGUE-BONE—OF THE CARTILAGES of the lower jaw, instead of the usual apparatus, a silver thread around the front teeth, which, without inconveniencing the patient, may be continued for three weeks till the divided parts are perfectly united. IV—OF FRACTURE OF THE TONGUE-BONE. (Fr act ura Ossis hyoidei, Lat.; Bruch des Zungenbeines, Germ.; Fracture de l’ Os hyoid, Fr.) Marcinovsky and Diefenbach ; in Medic. Vereinszeitung fiir Preussen, 1833. Nos. 3 and 15. Laxesque; in Journal Hebdom., vol x. p. 386, 1833. Auberge; in Revue Medieale, July, 1835. 608. Fracture of the Tongue-bone is very rare, but always consequent on direct external violence, and almost always occurs in the horns of the bone. In consequence of the injury itself and the displacement of the broken ends there is always impossibility of swallowing and speaking, or great difficulty and pain in so doing, and in depressing and protruding the tongue, symptoms of suffocation, effusion of blood, and swelling of the region of the tongue, grating and mobility of one or both horns when touched, inflammation of the throat and pharynx. The broken bone may be displaced towards the throat and project so that it can be felt with the finger (Lalesque, Auberge.) [The only examples of fracture of this bone of which I am aware are those of persons executed by hanging, in which fracture is almost invariably found.—J. F. S.] 609. If there be not any displacement of the end of the fracture towards the throat, it must be pressed into its proper place by introducing the finger, whilst the other hand fixes the tongue-bone externally ; a strict antiphlogistic treatment, blood-letting, leeches, cold applications, nitre in some mucilaginous vehicle, and extract of hyoscyamus or laurel water, must be employed to prevent or get rid of the inflammatory symptoms. The patient must swallow only fluids, and in small quantity. If swallow- ing be impossible, or the ends of the fracture be thereby again displaced, an oesophagus-tube must be introduced, or the patient nourished with clysters. V.—OF FRACTURE OF THE CARTILAGES OF THE LARYNX. (Fractura Laryngis, Lat.; Bruch der Knorpel des Kehlkopfes, Germ.; Fracture du Cartilage du Larynx, Fr.) 610. The cartilages of the larynx may be broken variously by the im- mediate operation of severe violence; and speedy death may result from the displacement of the ends of the fracture by suffocation, or very violent symptoms may ensue, as very difficult, snoring, noisy breathing, with the neck and head bent back, cough, with bloody foam from the mouth, hoarse inarticulate tone of voice, severe pain in the larynx, impossibility of swallowing, symptoms of choking, yellowish-white, livid, puffy face, pro- truding eyes, strong pulsation of the carotid arteries, effusion of blood, and emphysema in the neck, and tetanic symptoms. The mobility and displacement of the ends of the broken bone may be felt on external examination. I 611. If it be not possible by careful attempts to replace the ends of the fracture in their proper position, the coverings of the larynx should be cut through at the mesial line of the neck in the whole length of the larynx, and after stanching the bleeding, or if the danger be pressing, at the same