594 OF HARE-LIP. the fractured ends may be very dangerous. Great inflammation, suppura- tion, and gangrene may occur, and these may even proceed to a fatal result. In the thigh, the section is always effected with great difficulty and much danger ; it has, however, been there performed with success (a) : in limbs which have two bones the section has been considered impracticable; Fricke (b), however, and Cittadini (c) have performed it successfully on the fore-arm. Opinions as to the preference of the seton or of the section are very much divided; by both one as well as by the other mode of treatment, fortunate and unfortunate results have taken place; and equally celebrated burgeons have held with the one and against the other practice (d). [As far as my own observation and experience are concerned I cannot say that there is great encouragement for the performance of any operation for ununited or imper- fectly united fracture, and I think a comparison of the results of the numerous cases which have been variously treated will confirm this opinion. The most favourable cases are those in which the ends of the bone are connected by cartilage or a cartilage- like substance, and in such I should certainly prefer the introduction of caustic potash. The least favourable cases are those in which the fractured ends have acquired a carti- laginous covering and are enclosed in a sort of synovial capsule, which indicates a total indisposition to the formation of callus; and therefore cutting off the ends, or scraping off their thin cartilaginous covering, is a very doubtful proceeding, as union will com- monly not occur and the fractured ends be re-covered, as in Green’s case. Perhaps, where the union is prevented by loose pieces between the ends 'of the broken bone, if these be removed, union may take place ; but that this is very uncertain is proved by Mackmurdo’s case. The great difficulty to contend with, in determining on the performance of any ope- ration with the reasonable hope of success, is the almost utter impossibility of distin- guishing the real cause of the want of firm union, which can only be ascertained when the fractured part is exposed; and which very frequently disproves the diagnosis pre- viously made. I think therefore that it is advisable in all cases of ununited fracture in which operations are performed that the Surgeon should fairly warn the patient of the great uncertainty of their result and leave him to determine for himself.—J. F. S.] II.—OF HARE-LIP. {Labium Leporinum, Lat.; Hasenscliarte, Germ.; Bee de Licvre, Fr.) Hetster, L., De Labio Leporino. Helmst., 1744. Louis ; in Memoires de l’Academie de Chirurgie, vol. iv. p. 385. Locher, De Operatione Labii Leporini. Jense, 1792. Freter, De modis variis quibus Labium Leporinum curatur. Hal®, 1793. Celi.ier de Clermont, De la Division Labiale. Paris, an xi. Rieg, Abhandlung von der Hasenscliarte. Frankfurt, 1803. Desault, GSuvres Chirurgicales, vol. ii. p. 173. Rau, J. D. L., Dissert, de Labio Leporino cum proeminentiis Maxillae Superioris complicato. Berol., 1818. Caspar, C. R., De Labio Leporino. An iv. Goetting, 1837. 4to.; with engraving. Mettauer, John P., M.D., On Staphyloraphy; in American Journal of Medical Sciences, vol. xxi. 1837. Demoncy, C., Dissert, de Labio Leporino. Mosquse, 1839. (a) Medico-Chirurg. Trans., vol. ii. p. 47. fit Oppenheim, above cited, p. 242. m Ommodei, Annali universali de Medicina, Marzo, 1826, p.411. (ri) Note the comparison of the cases of the one and other mode of treatment by Oppenheim. Bai.lif, Apparat zur fixirung der falschen Gelenke. See Troschel, Dissert, de Pseudarthrosi. Berlin, 1826. Somme',On the Cure of a False Joint by the intro- duction of a silver loop and extension apparatus; in Med.-Cliir. Trans., vol. xvi. p. 36.