113 COLD—STIM UL ANTS. the choice of remedies for burns and scalds. Whilst some prefer moist applications,. cold or warm, either as washes or liniments and ointments, others advocate the use of drv substances, as cotton or dour and the like. I shall first mention some of the more prevalent plans of treatment, and afterwards describe my own ordinary practice, without, however, claiming for it any great degree of originality. James Earle was the principal supporter of cold moist applications in form of very cold water or even ice, pounded and applied on clothes or in a bladder. Hunter ob- serves:—« Cold lessens all inflammations, and is a very good application where it can be applied; but it cannot be applied so universally as others. However, cold has this disadvantage, that the pain, although removed while under the application, occurs with double force when it is removed, much more than from any of the applications; and the reason is evident, for, as the warmth returns, the pain is increased by the warmth, even in sound parts.” (p. 218.) Henry Earle (a), also, although he advocates both cold and warm applications on certain conditions, notices the objections which exist in reference to the use of cold, at the same time that he mentions its advantages. He says:—“ The advantages of the plan (the application of cold) are, that it may generally be resorted to without delay, and that it has the effect of affording immediate relief. The disadvan- tages attending it are, it is necessary to continue or renew the application of cold for a considerable time, as the heat and pain will return, unless the diminished temperature be steadily maintained. On this account it is that, in certain delicate constitutions, and especially when the injury extends to the chest or trunk, this cooling plan of treatment cannot be employed without risk. (p. 301.) The treatment recommended by Kentish (b), and consisting of the primary appli- cation of warm and stimulating remedies, is generally practised in the coal districts of the North of England, and therefore, if for no other reason than that it has been there found successful, is well entitled to notice. I have had a little experience of its effects, and do not think it less advantageous than most other plans of incipient treatment, which is the principal point of difference in the practice. Kentish’s theory of the treatment of burns and scalds is founded on the mode of treating frost-bite, the very reverse of wrhich he considers, with a fair show of reason, is here indicated. Nor are his views to be set down as “ visionary, as amusing the fancy, but never capable of im- proving the judgmentnor are they “ nearly unintelligible, nor unsupported by any sort of rational evidence,” as they have been asserted to be by Samuel Cooper. The question “ the effects of heat above the freezing point, carried to the extent of what is termed burning,” being the converse of its effects “ below the freezing point, commonly called the effects of cold,” it will be, on the whole, more convenient to leave the discus- sion of till we treat of frost-bite. Kentish’s object consists in “ restoring the unity of action,” as he calls it, in these “local injuries from increased action,” * * * first, by gradually diminishing the excitement or action of the part; and, secondly, by increasing the action of the system to meet the increased action of the part; holding this law of the system in view', that any part of the system having its action increased to a very high degree, must continue to be excited, though in a less degree, either by the stimulus which caused the increased action, or some other having the nearest similarity to it, until, by degrees, the extraordinary ac- tion subsides into the healthy action of the part.” With this view, holding the part to the fire seems the best mode of relief; but, as parts of the body are injured where this cannot be done, the most stimulant applications must be bad recourse to; for, in this class there is little fear of any of them being greater than that which originally caused the accident; the strongest rectified spirits made still stronger by essential oils ; add to which they may be heated as much as can be suffered on the sound parts ; these, and many more applications of the same class will give the speediest and most effectual relief, f hese are only to be continued for a certain time, otherwise they may afterwards cause the very ill they were given to cure; and should be succeeded by less stimulant appli- cations, until the parts act by the common natural stimuli. The internal mode of relief "ill be to give those substances which soonest excite the system to great action, such as sther, ardent spirits, opium, wine, &c., by which means the solution of continuity of action is allowed to continue the shortest time possible, and the unity of action restored, which constitutes the cure.” (pp. 112-14.) The mode in which Kentish sets about the primary dressing of burns is as follows :— ."Take a teacup and put some of the best rectified spirit of wine, or spirit of wine with camphor, or spirit of turpentine, into it; then place it in a basin of hot water, so as to heat it to what you can bear with your finger; then, by means of a rag dipped in this, or a probe armed with a good deal of lint, wash and bathe the whole of the injured sur- («) Clinical Lecture on Burns; in Medical Gazette, vol. v. 1830. VOL. I. (&) On Hums, &c.