PULPY DEGENERATION OF SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE. 218 eases, in which the natural structure of the affected organ is destroyed, and a new and different structure is added in its place. To these also it bears a near resemblance in its progress. Thus tubercles of the lungs, in the first instance, occupy the vesicular and interlobular substance ; but ultimately they inflame and ulcerate, abscesses form in them, and the pleura, the bronchia, and other contiguous parts become affected. * * * In every case in which I have had it in my power to watch its progress, the complaint has advanced slowly, and sometimes has remained in an indolent state during a very long period, but ultimately it has always terminated in the destruction of the joint It is a remarkable circumstance that this affection of the synovial membrane is rarely met with, except in the knee. I have never known an instance of it in the hip or shoulder. But Hodgson of Birmingham informs me he has met with one example in the ankle, and another in one of the joints of a finger.” (p. 95-7.) If by placing this disease in “ the same order with tubercles of the lungs, scirrhus of the breast,” &c., Brodie means to infer that it is malignant in the usual acceptation of the term, I must differ from him, as I am not aware that it presents itself in any other organ of the body, and, indeed, he himself observes, “ it is a remarkable circumstance that this affection of the synovial membrane is rarely met with except in the knee.” It destroys life, indeed, if the limb be not removed; but only in the same way as other causes by which the surface of the joint is destroyed and either opened or not, by wearing out the powers of the constitution.—j. f. s. “ This disease,” according to Brodie, “ generally takes place in persons who are not much above the age of puberty. I do not recollect,” says he, “ one instance of it having occurred after the middle period of life. In general it can he traced to no evident cause ; but occasionally it is the consequence of repeated attacks of inflammation. In this re- spect it resembles other diseases of the same order. Inflammation of the lungs may lay the foundation of tubercles, and inflammation of the breast may occasion the growth of a scirrhous tumour. * * * In the origin of this disease there is a slight degree of stiffness and tumefaction, without pain, and producing only the most trifling inconveni- ence. These symptoms gradually increase. In the greater number of cases, the joint at last scarcely admits of the smallest motion; but, in a few cases, it always retains a certain degree of mobility. The form of the swelling bears some resemblance to that in cases of inflammation of the synovial membrane, but it is less regular. The swell- ing is soft and elastic, and gives to the hand a sensation as if it contained fluid. If only one hand be employed in making the examination, the deception may be complete, and the most experienced surgeon may be led to suppose that there is fluid in the joint when there is none; but, if both hands be employed, one on each side, the absence of fluid is distinguished by the want of fluctuation. The patient experiences little or no pain until abscesses begin to form and the cartilages ulcerate; and, even then, the pain is, in many instances, not so severe as where the ulceration of the cartilages occurs as a primary disease, and the abscesses heal more readily, and discharge a smaller quantity of pus, than in cases of this last description. At this period the patient becomes affected with hectic fever, loses his flesh, and gradually sinks, unless the limb be removed by an operation. * * * The gradual progress of the enlargement and stiffness of the joint with- out pain, and the soft elastic swelling without fluctuation, in the majority of cases, enables us to distinguish it readily from all the other morbid affections to which the joints are liable. The cases with which those of this disease are most liable to be confounded are those of chronic inflammation of the synovial membrane. Firstly. When the synovial membrane has undergone a morbid change of structure, it occasionally happens that a preternatural secretion of fluid takes place at the same time from its inner surface, and the joint becomes distended, not with synovia, but with a turbid serum, having flakes of coagulable lymph floating in it, which causes the tumour to present nearly the same ex- ternal characters as where synovial membrane is inflamed.” But Brodie distinguishes it by its not yielding to the ordinary treatment, and by the accurate previous history. “ Secondly. When the synovial membrane, after inflammation has subsided, has been left in a thickened state, and coagulable lymph has been effused into the articular cavity, the tumour, in some instances, a good deal resembles the tumour which occurs in cases of this disease; so much so, that it will be very difficult to give a correct opinion merely from observing the present appearance and condition of the joint. The surgeon must, in great measure, form his judgment from the account which he receives of the origin and early symptoms of the complaint, or, when an accurate statement cannot be procured, by waiting to observe its future progress.” (p. 101-6.)J 210. The examination of the joint after death shows, in a milder form of the disease, the synovial membrane inflamed, and the cavity of the joint