778 DISLOCATION tion upwards, the distance between the two sternal ends of the collar-bones is diminished, and the dislocated end is higher than that of the opposite side. Dislocation backwards, the possibility of which is admitted by most persons, though by others in a manner doubted, but which has been proved by a case of Pellieux’s (a), may be caused by violence which thrusts the shoulder forwards, or acts immediately upon the sternal end of the collar-bone from before backwards. Its symptoms are a depression in place of a projection, at the inner end of the collar-bone, only at the opposite end there is decided position and direction of the bone from within outwards, and from behind forwards, severe pain in the region of the collar-bone, and upon the whole side of the neck to the very base of the lower jaw, the mastoid process and occipital protuberance, on sudden movement of the arm, especially in certain opposition to overcome it, as well as with pressure of the hand ; on motion, a dull rustling is percep- tible to the patient, as of rubbing the two surfaces of the bone together; some pain on rotating the head, hence a degree of stiff neck, so that the head, neck, and chest move together if the patient look sideways; incapa- bility of the patient raising himself from the bed, except by putting an object before him to serve as a point of resistance ; lastly, slight pain in swallowing. As the greater number of writers on this dislocation state that, in it, the wind-pipe and gullet, the vessels and nerves are compressed, and severe symptoms are thereby pro- duced, neither of which was observed by Pellieux in his case, and the assumption of which depends only on a short notice of Duverney’s (b), and a case related by Astley Cooper, in which dislocation in the second way occurred, therefore Pellieux gives a superficial and a deep dislocation of the sternal end of the collar-bone, taking for the former, the symptoms above described, but for the latter, which can scarcely occur but from direct severe violence upon the collar-bone, and with complete tearing away of the m. sterno mastoideus, the more important symptoms of pressure on the wind-pipe and gullet, and on the vessels and nerves of the neck. But this statement is unsupported by any reason; for in the case related by A. Cooper, (p. 401,) there occurred, during great curvature of the spine, a gradual dislocation of the sternal end of the clavicle back- wards, in which, for the purpose of relieving the severe symptoms of impeded swallow- ing, the dislocated end of the collar-bone was removed. [In September 1835, there was admitted into St. Thomas’s Hospital, under Tyrrell, a case of compound dislocation of the collar-bone, backwards, which I saw. It had been caused by an earth slip of twelve feet in height, burying him, whilst employed in preparing for the Southampton railroad, and driving the sharp end of a pickaxe, with which he was working, into his chest. lie reached the hospital three hours after the accident; and on examination, the cellular tissue below the right collar-bone and on the upper part of the breast-bone was found emphysematous. The collar-bone was distinctly dislocated backwards at its sternal end, and there was a wound in the skin opposite the junction of the second rib with its cartilage. When the finger was in- troduced into this aperture, the great pectoral muscle was found completely scraped from its clavicular attachment, and the finger could pass as far outwards as the coracoid process of the blade-bone, and inwards, it followed the collar-bone to the windpipe, on the right and fore-part of which it rested, slightly sunk behind the upper piece of the breast-bone, so that it somewhat interfered with respiration and deglutition. The interarticular cartilage seemed to remain in its proper place, except a small portion which had been torn off with the bone; the extreme inner end of the collar-bone could not, however, be distinctly felt; no wound of the intercostal muscles could be ascertained. The pickaxe had probably first passed upwards and outwards, then turned inwards, torn off the pectoral muscle from its origin, and having dislocated the bone, passed inwards above the breast-bone in those directions in which the finger could move; probably it had wounded the pleura and right lung, which appeared the only way of accounting for the emphysema. According to his own account, it would seem as if the handle of the ool .had penetrated, for he says, the handle was standing upright and he fell forward (a) Memoire sur la Luxation de l’extremite sternale de la Clavicule en arriere ; in Revue Medicale, 1834, August, p. 161. (fc) Traite des Maladies des Os, Vol. i. p. 201.