474 SUBSTANCES RETAINED IN THE INTESTINES. wound have closed, it must be again opened, and a broad belly-band ap- plied for the purpose of pressing the extravasation towards the wound. If the bleeding continue, we have no direct means of stanching it; re- peated blood-lettings must be employed, with the most complete state of quietude; cold fomentations must be laid on the belly, and a bellv-band applied sufficiently tight. If the extravasation be near the wound, the finger or the probe must be carefully introduced, and the intestine some- what thrust back; if swelling and fluctuation occur at any other part, or after the wound has closed; if the effused blood be not absorbed under proper treatment; if symptoms of decomposition, pain, tension, increase of the size of the swelling, fluctuation, and fever appear, in such cases the extravasation must be emptied, which is best done by a bistoury, with careful incisions dividing, layer by layer, the coverings to such extent that the collected fluid flows out readily ; but we must not run the danger of disturbing the adhesions around the extravasation. The evacuation with the trocar, which can be employed only in very large swellings and dis- tinct fluctuation, is always less satisfactory, and the presumed removal of the air thereby of less importance. The further treatment is simple; the wound is to be covered with charpie and a poultice, the free escape of the decomposed blood being carefully provided for, and assisted by gentle injections of lukewarm water. The general treatment must be propor- tionate with the circumstances. If the blood be extravasated into the whole cavity of the pelvis, it sinks into the pelvis, because the adhesions surrounding the extravasation are destroyed, and mortification and death soon ensue. [538.* In wounds of the belly and intestines, the ball or other sub- stance which has penetrated, is sometimes retained, and after a time passed by the natural passages. The following remarkable instance of this kind is mentioned by IIennen :— Case.—Serjeant P. M. received a ball in the belly on the evening of the 18th June, 1815, which struck him “ upon the right side, about one inch below the navel, and three fingers’ breadth to one side. Scarcely a tinge of blood followed the wound. He did not fall, but walked about fifty yards to the rear, from whence, in half an hour, he was carried to a large barn in the village, where he remained for three days before he was conveyed to an hospital at Brussels. During this period he was bled three times ad deliquium. The first vein was opened about twenty-four hours after the receipt of the wound. On his arrival at Brussels his principal complaint was incessant straining to stool, for which he received daily clysters. On the sixth day from the receipt of the wound, immediately after an enema, he had an urgent call to the close stool, when he passed a small-sized ri He musket-ball, enveloped in mucus, and unaltered in shape, ex- cept a small groove indented in it, probably from cutting along the bayonet or ramrod of the piece from which it was fired. The wound was perfectly healed on the 2(Jth August following, without any ill accident or uncommon occurrence from the time of receiving it, except that, during the course of the first night he was sensible of a sort of watery oozing that moistened the linen placed on his wound, particularly whenever he drank, which he frequently did. This circumstance he was never after sensible of. He joined his corps at Paris, but had not been more than ten weeks there, when severe pains again arose in the bowels; some bits of cloth were passed by stool, an abscess formed externally ; and every symptom threatened approaching peritonitis, which was relieved by active means, under the charge of Staff-Surgeon Dease.” In the following year he was seen: “ his general health was good, but if he indulged in a full meal, he felt severe pain in the part. He was subject to obstinate costiveness; and if he allowed the bowels to remain for any length of time in that state, the pain produced in the abdominal region, and particularly in the wounded part, became very severe indeed. The motion of his limbs gave him no pain, although for some time after receiving the wound he was obliged to bend his body in walking, and he performed that movement