813 THE NAVICULAR AND OTHER INSTEP-BONES. wound extended from opposite the middle of the base of the shin-bone, round the upper part of the instep to the outer malleolar process, exposing the head of the astragalus in front, and its outer under-joint-surface for the heel-bone on the outside ; the latter and the navicular bone, together with the whole foot, were carried in, so that the toes pointed much inwards towards the opposite foot, whilst the tuberosity of the heel-bone projected outwards. It was reduced by extending the foot and rotating it outwards. In Hancock’s case (a) which seems to have been a simple dislocation of the heel and navicular bones outwards, but which was not reduced for a week, the skin which had previously vesicated, sloughed, and as the slough cleared off", the internal ealcaneo- seaphoid ligament sloughed also, and the head of the astragalus, which had previously kept its place, twisted round on the heel-bone, till a large portion of its head protruded through the wound, and having lost its articular cartilage and become dead, about three quarters of an inch of it were sawn off, and then the wound healed.—J. F. S.] 1104. The navicular and cuboid bones, though remaining connected with the cuneiform, may be dislocated from the astragalus and heel-bone, which can only be effected by great violence, as the fall of a heavy weight upon the foot. The astragalus and heel-bone remain in their natural place, but the fore part of the foot is always twisted inwards, as in club- foot. Fixing the leg and heel, and extension of the foot outwards, effect reduction. [A case is mentioned (b) of a bricklayer’s boy, aged fourteen years, who fell down a height of forty feet, and apparently struck the extremity of the foot. The ligaments on the dorsal surface of the foot appear to have started, and the scaphoid and cuboid bones projected a little upwards out of their places. The foot was much swelled, was about half an inch shorter than the other, and had a clubbed appearance. Nothing was done in this case.] 1105. Dislocation of the cuboid bone may, as a consequence of great violence, occur upwards, according to Piedagnel, also inwards and downwards. The irregularity and prominence at the situation of (he dislocated bone, its form, and the altered direction of the fore part of the foot, give cause for diagnosis, and distinguish it from a dislocation of the head of the astragalus upon the navicular bone; as here especially the smoothness and convexity of the head of the astragalus and the three joint-surfaces of the navicular bone lead to it. The leg and heel should be fixed, the extension of the foot made in the outward direction, and the bone pressed into place with both thumbs, after which the foot is to be laid on its side, and protected with a proper apparatus. If the reduction cannot be effected, destructive suppuration and caries ensue, and the extirpation of the bones is necessary (Piedagnel) (c). 1106. The great cuneiform bone may be dislocated by tearing of the ligaments which connect it with the middle cuneiform, the navicular, and the metatarsal bone of the great toe; it is then projected considerably inwards and somewhat upwards, by the action of the in. tibialis anticus, and does not correspond with the straight line of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. It must be attempted by pressure to return the bone to its natural place, where it is to be kept by compresses, and a bandage applied round the foot and moistened with a dispersing lotion. "NY hen the inflam- mation has subsided, a leathern strap should be bound around the foot, till the ligaments have united. Asti.ey Cooper (d) describes two cases of this dislocation, in both of which the bones were not replaced ; there remained, however, only little detriment. 1107. Dislocation of all the metatarsal bones from their connexion (a) On Dislocation of the Astragalus with the ((<) Eancet, vol. lower ends of the Tibia and Fibula; in Lancet, (,•) I’iedagnel ; vol. ii. p. 35. 1844. vol. ii. No. 19. (d) Above cited, p. 383. i. 1839-40, p. 133. in Jour. Univers. et llebdoin.,