WOUNDS OF THE WOMB AND VAGINA. 486 nourishing diet ordered. On \9th July the opening had diminished to a third. She went on very well; the portion of intestine and the red-coloured mass gradually retract- ing, and a free discharge of healthy pus continuing. One of the inguinal glands sup- purated and burst. On the 17th Aug. the opening in the belly was entirely closed, leaving only a slight scar. “ Punctures, or narrow tears made by an instrument more or less sharp, are,” says Duparcque, “ not the least dangerous wounds of the womb. Their usual consequence is the dribbling off of the waters, wounding of the foetus, and abortion.” And he quotes a case from Planchon (a), in which a woman was thrust by a cabriolet against a wall, and stabbed by a long, large, square nail in the foot-board behind, half an inch on the left of the white line, and three inches from the navel. She suffered great pain; the waters mixed with blood escaped from the wound with a jet, and the draining ceased after fifteen hours; convulsions, hiccough, and vomiting ensued, and she died at the end of sixty hours, (p. 18.) Instances have also occurred in which by the goring of cattle-horns, the walls of the belly aud also of the womb have been simultaneously laid open, sometimes so exten- sively, that the child was discharged by it, as in Deneux’s (b) case, in which the child was not separated from the mother for an hour, and lived only eight hours; but the mother recovered perfectly in six weeks. At other times the wound is not suffi- ciently large to permit the child’s escape at once, although it was subsequently brought away through it, as in Schmucker’s case (c). The womb is also sometimes wounded in criminal attempts to produce abortion. My friend Dr. Waller tells me he has a perfect recollection of a coroner’s inquest on such a case, though unfortunately he cannot refer to it. The vagina is also occasionally torn, either at its upper part near the womb, in its middle, or at its lower part in the ano-perineal region, or at the vulva (d). When the vagina is torn near the womb, it may be caused “ by dragging or by direct pressure; the former results from uterine contractions, from recession of the womb in the attempts at delivery, or displacement of the child, or by every act of the abdominal walls, or every movement of the trunk which has the effect of drawing back and raising up the womb.” (p. 2i5.) The predisposing causes to these ruptures (d) are principally, the disproportionate size of the child to the passage, the narrowing of the vagina by old cicatrices, its recession by the- bladder being distended with urine, or, specially, the rectum with hardened faeces, or by tumours in the substance or on the surface of the vagina, or the narrowness of the pelvis itself. When tearing once begins at the upper part of the vagina fit may continue till the womb is almost completely separated from it. The patient may be destroyed by haemor- rhage, which generally is disposed, according to Duparcque, to escape externally, though it may flow into the cavity of the peritoneum. A loop of intestine may also be pro- truded through the wound by the labour-pains; but “ the intestine is easily distinguished from the umbilical cord by the mesentery which fixes it, whilst the cord is entirely free. The omentum may be more easily mistaken for a piece of the membranes; but in either case it is not difficult to trace these floating bodies, and ascertain whence they come, and what is their nature.” (p. 225.) In these cases the child may either remain in the womb, or partially or entirely escape into the cavity of the belly, (p. 222.) Tearing of the middle region of the vagina is far less serious than when in the upper third, and accompanied or not with tearing of the womb. “ It has no inconveniences for the infant, which often in consequence gains a more easy and quick passage ; and it does not compromise the life of the mother. But if they have not any immediate serious inconveniences, they often subsequently cause disagreeable and disgusting infirmities, which embitter existence,” (p. 301,) as vagino-vesical or vagino-rectal fistulas. Sometimes the head of the child, instead of passing through the external orifice of the vagina, drives downwards, and the perineum being very extensible will yield, and the child be born through it, without tearing into the vulva, of which I have known an instance. But more commonly the head takes the natural course and the vaginal edge of the perineum being stretched severely, suddenly gives way, and the whole is torn through to the edge of the rectum. The treatment of these cases will be hereafter con- sidered.—J. F. S.j (a) Traite complet de l’Operation Cesarienne, (6) Essai sur les Ruptures de la Matrice, p. 35. p. 77. (e) Melanges de Cliirurgie, vol. Ixvi. p. 354. (d) Duparcque, above cited.