51 ULCERATION. from it: * * * but in all cases it must still be referred to some necessary purpose ; for, we may depend upon it that those parts have not the power of maintaining their ground, aud it becomes a substitute for mortification; and, indeed, in many ulcers we shall see both ulceration and mortification going on; ulceration removing those parts that have power to resist death.” (pp. 444, 5.) As regards *• the absorption of whole parts from disease, it would appear,” says Hunter, “ that they are capable of being absorbed, from five causes : first, from parts being pressed; secondly, from parts being considerably irritated by irritating sub- stances ; thirdly, from parts being weakened; fourthly, from parts being rendered useless; fifthly, from parts becoming dead.” (p. 440.) “ The dispositions of the two parts of the living body, which absorb and are absorbed, must,” says Hunter, “ be of two kinds respecting the parts ; one passive and the other active. The first of these is an irritated state of the part to be absorbed, which renders it unfit to remain under such circumstances; the action excited by this irritation being incompatible with the natural actions and the existence of the parts, whatever these are, therefore become ready for removal, or yield to it with ease. The second is, the absorbents being stimulated to action by such a state of parts, so that both conspire to the same end. When the part to be absorbed is a dead part, as nourishment or ex- traneous matter of all kinds, then the whole disposition is in the absorbents, (p. 446.) Many parts of our solids are more susceptible of being absorbed, especially by ulcera- tion, than others, even under the same or similar circumstances, while the same part shall vary its susceptibility according to circumstances.” (p. 447.) “ Progressive absorption is divisible into twro kinds, one without suppuration, and i the other with. * * The absorption which does not produce suppuration may take ; place, either from pressure made by sound parts upon diseased parts, or by diseased upon sound parts.” ('p. 454.) The absorption attended with suppuration, “ which I call v» ulceration,” * * * is connected with the formation of pus, being either a consequence 1 i of it or producing it, and is that which in all cases constitutes an ulcer. It is this which principally constitutes the progressive absorption. This differs from the fore- d going in some circumstances of its operations. It either takes place in consequence of suppuration already begun, and then the pus acts as an extraneous bodyr, capable of producing pressure; or absorption attacks external surfaces from particular irritations i i or weakness, in which case suppuration, forming an ulcer, must follow', let the cause of • that breach or loss of substance be what it may.” (p. 456.) “This process of ulceration or absorption with suppuration, is almost constantly attended by inflammation, but it cannot be called an original inflammation but a m consequent, which gave rise to the term ‘ulcerative inflammation.’ It is always pre- bo ceded by the adhesive inflammation, and perhaps it is simply this inflammation wrhich attends it.” (p. 457.) “ The effect, then, of irritation, as above described, is to produce first the adhesive at inflammation in such parts as will readily admit of it, and, if that has not the intended I ) effect, the suppurative takes place, and then the ulceration comes on to lead the matter i: already formed to the skin if it is confined.” (p. 458.) “ Any irritation which is so iI great as to destroy suddenly the natural operations of any one part, and the effect of * which is so long continued as to oblige the parts to act for their own relief, produces | i|i some parts, first, the adhesive inflammation; and, if the cause be increased or con- tinue still longer, the suppurative state takes place, and all the other consequences, as ulceration; or, if in the other parts, as secreting surfaces, then the suppurative takes place immediately, and, if too violent, the adhesive will succeed ; or, if parts are very much weakened, the ulcerative will immediately succeed the adhesive, and then suppu- ration will be the consequence. This species of ulceration in general gives considerable pain, which pain is commonly distinguished by the name of soreness; * * * but it does not attend all ulcerations, for there are some of a specific kind, which give little or no pain, such as the scrofula; but, even in this disease, when the ulceration proceeds pretty fast, it gives often considerable pain : therefore the pain may in some degree be proportioned to the quickness of its operation. The greatest pain which in general r a^e^s this operation arises from those ulcerations which are formed for the purpose r of bringing the matter of an abscess to tbe skin, as also where ulceration begins upon a ft surface, or is increasing a sore : whether the increase of pain arises from the ulcerative i inflammation singly, or from the adhesive and ulcerative going on together in the same point, is not easily determined ; but, iu some cases, these three are pretty rapid in their progress, and it is more than probable that the pain arises from all these i causes. In those cases where ulceration is employed in separating a dead part, such