INFLAMMATION OF THE HIP-JOINT. 251 227. In the Acute Inflammation of the Hip-Joint, after any occasional cause, there arises sharp pain in the hip-joint, which extends on the inside of the thigh to the knee-joint, not increased by touching the knee if the thigli be undisturbed at the hip-joint, but increased by any pressure and motion of the hip-joint itself. The region of the hip, especially the buttock, is more or less swollen, consequently its wrinkles are mostly somewhat deeper ; the thigh is drawn up towards the belly, because outstretching it is very painful; the foot is turned somewhat outwards, and cannot be moved inwards without pain. If the length of both extremities be compared, they are either alike or the diseased extremity is seemingly shortened or seem- ingly lengthened; both, however, only in a slight degree. Fever exists in proportion to the severity of the symptoms. Standing and walking are very difficult, or even quite impossible; the patient, therefore, throws the whole weight of the body upon the sound limb, draws up considerably the hip of the ailing side, bends the knee, and merely touches the ground with the tip of his foot. [Key (a) says:—“The hip-joint is less frequently the subject of acute than of chronic inflammation, probably from being well protected from the influence of atmospheric changes, to which the knee and most other joints are exposed. In the adult, acute dis- ease of this joint is occasionally seen, in which the whole structure of the joint, cartilage as well as ligament, undergoes complete disorganization in the space of a few weeks.” (p. 230.)] 228. If the inflammation do not subside, it passes into suppuration, with an increase of all the general and local symptoms ; collections of pus are formed within the joint as well as on its exterior; the fever assumes a hectic character, the powers sink, the patient wastes considerably, the muscles of the hip and thigh become flabby, and a careful measurement of both extremities shows that the diseased one is really lengthened. The abscesses become superficial around the joint, either in its immediate neighbourhood or at a distance from it; and, during this time or subsequently, when the abscesses have burst, the head of the thigh-bone escapes from the hip- socket, and is dislocated commonly upon the back of the hip-bone (h), so that the diseased extremity becomes considerably shortened, is rolled in- wards, and appears somewhat bent at the knee-joint. The patient now either sinks under long continued hectic consumption, or, what is more rarely the case, the suppuration diminishes, portions of bone come away, and the apertures of the abscesses close. 229. In the Chronic Progress of Inflammation of the hip-joint, the three stages are, on account of the gradual development of the symptoms, more distinctly and determinately marked (1). In the beginning, the patient complains of slight pain in the hip-joint, of some weariness in the thigh and stiffness of the joint, especially in the morning, which subsides during, the day, but is always increased by much exertion. The pain is not con- tinuous ; it often increases towards evening', with slight febrile excitement, and specially resembles rheumatic pain moving slowly about the thigh (2). At the hip-joint itself no disease is discoverable, except an increase of pain on pressure behind the great trochanter, or on the front of the joint where the femoral vessels pass beneath Poupart’s ligament. These symptoms ... (fl) Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xviii. (b) I nave presumed to use the ordinary English body possess them. I know no reason why wo terms, hip-bone, haunch-bone, share-bone, and should be more ashamed of using our mother hip-socket, in preference to the I-it in names, ilium, tongue than the Germans or the French, and I see tscfiium, pubcs, and acetabulum, and I purpose always no particular advantage in using tiie figurative employing English names wherever parts of the Latin of the Schools.—J. I’. S.