ERYSIPELAS—Inflammation of Cellular Tissue. 103 vesicles burst, a whitish ichorous fluid is discharged, whitish or blackish spots appear which quickly spread, the cellular tissue is thrown ofl' in laro-e patches, the skin is entirely separated from the underlying parts, all the connecting cellular tissue between the muscles is destroyed, the skin becomes gangrenous, the suppuration is very plentiful and offensive, the destruction spreads and exhaustion follows with copious sweats, purging, and so on. If the patient’s powers revive, and the disease be arrested, i the formation of granulations and cicatrization is always very tedious, on ! account of the great destruction of the cellular tissue (1). If the masses deposited be solid, they sink into the substance of the cellular tissue, inflame and harden it, and destroy its vital relations, without causing actual death. This degeneration frequently does not occur until after several weeks, and appears with accompanying redness of the skin and with a somewhat painful, far-spread, deep-seated hardening (2). The termination of this disease (which Kluge has commonly observed in the scrotum, and which I have seen upon the hand and fore arm) is either a tedious resolution with gradual subsidence of the redness and hardness, or death of the de- generated organ, in which the size of the part is increased, the previous hardness becomes doughy, fluctuation takes place, and the above-described destruction and ichorousness ensues (a). [(1) This is the inflammation of the cellular tissue, to which I slightly adverted at p. 72 ; i and, although very commonly confused with erysipelas, or, as by Chelius, with erythema, it is decidedly different from either, although both occasionally run into it. John Hunter was well acquainted with it, as will be presently seen, though he included it with erythema, under the common title erysipelatous inflammation, which he does not describe at all. He says:—“ The erysipelatous inflammation is very peculiar; and most inflammations that are not of the true adhesive and suppurative kind are called so, although probably they do not in the least belong to it; and this may arise more from the want of terms, than the want of discrimination.” (p. 2G9.) After describing erythema, which it is quite certain he means, restricting it to the skin, he proceeds :—“ When it (the inflammation) goes deeper than the skin into the cellular membrane, it often suppurates; but then I suspect it is not the true erysipelatous; for, in such cases, it com- monly produces mortification in the cells, by which air is let loose; this gives a strange feel, neither of fluctuation nor crepitation, and, as there are no adhesions, the matter finds an easy passage into the common cellular membrane, increasing the same kind of suppu- ration wherever it comes ; and, as mortification is a consequence of these inflammations, putrefaction ensues, and the discharge becomes very offensive. * * * * When it produces suppuration in the cellular membrane it is often dangerous, both from the ! disease itself and the consequences of the matter diffusing itself much farther. * * * The sores seldom ulcerate ; they should be opened early, or the matter either gets into the cellular membrane from the want of adhesions, or it separates parts that are only l attached, as the periosteum from the bone, muscles from muscles, etc. Whereas the true suppurative ulcerates briskly, which therefore should not be opened early, but allowed to burst.” (pp. 271, 2.) So far as it goes, Hunter has well described this disease; but he speaks of it as if invariably consequent on erythema, which is more rare than its following erysipelas, which he does not mention at all. It is perfectly true that, from both these diseases, the inflammatory action may descend, and attack the cellular tissue; but very commonly the inflammation begins in that tissue ; and the redness of the skin is only secondary, and symptomatic of the mischief going on beneath. Inflammation of the cellular tissue arises frequently without any apparent cause, but sometimes follows a graze or slight wound or contusion of the skin. It commences with swelling, tension and dusky redness of the limb, (almost invariably attacking the extre- mities,) is very painful, and has a doughy feel ; it spreads very rapidly, downwards as well as upwards if it have commenced on the upper or on the middle of the lower member of the limb. The pain and tension increase, the redness becomes darker, and, if not interfered with, large patches of the skin assume a gangrenous character, sometimes accompanied with large vesications loaded with dirty serum, but very often without (rt) Kluof.; in Rust, as above, p. 525.