BELOW THE GREAT TROCHANTER. 575 The permanent apparatus is put on by Seutin in the following manner:—After the bed has been properly arranged, bandages, a straw cloth, Scui.tetus’s bandage in three or four layers of strips sufficiently long to reach once and a-half round the limb, are to be laid upon it. The swathing of the foot is now to be commenced with the stirrup bandage from the root of the toes, which remain uncovered, and at the same time serve as an index to determinine the position of the bone. The first layer of bandages is then as usual to be applied from below upwards, and then plaster of Paris spread over it. This acts merely for the gluing of the second layer, without by its hardness injuring the skin. The second layer is to be applied in a similar manner, and an assistant smears it over with plaster with a large brush. The pasteboard splints are then cut to fit, broadest at the back part of the thigh and calf. At the edges of the foot they are; to be cut with two broad pieces, which, connected in the middle, form a sole, and reach only to the lateral projections of the head of the first and fifth mid-foot-bones. A single sole does not give sufficient firmness, though one sole may be put on, and the ends of the pasteboard splints made to overlap it. The pasteboard splint must not press the edge of the shin-bone, and should be sufficiently wide that there may remain behind ; and before a finger’s breadth between their edges. In the edges of the splints, notches should be made with the shears, or indents, which are still better, whereby they stick closely to the underlying parts. The pasteboard splints should be soaked in water, spread with plaster, applied, and at once overspread on both sides with a thick layer of plaister, so that in drying they form as firm a substance as a wooden splint; and now the third layer of bands is applied. The foot is then to be somewhat raised, and a conical pillow stuffed with tow, placed between the heel and calf, to keep the hind part of the apparatus perfectly horizontal, and to diminish the dropping through of the heel and calf. The heel-pad is also to be spread with plaster, and fixed in the fourth layer of bandage; or it may be applied earlier between the bandage straps, so that subsequently it is not necessary to raise the limb higher. As it is important that the Achilles’ tendon should not be compressed, two pieces of the same compress should therefore be previously laid on both sides of it. The lower part of the splint, which bends over the sole of the foot, is fixed within a circular bandage. As till the complete drying of the apparatus, displacements easily occur, straw splints are usually applied by means of straw splint cloth, and the whole firmly bound with rollers, as in the common contentive apparatus. The assistants, who have hitherto kept up extension and counter-extension may now let go the limb. If the fracture be very oblique and the >■ fractured ends easily separate, a sling must be applied at the lower part of the limb by means of a double bandage, fastened on both sides of the foot and leg, and connected at its end with bags, more or less full of sand, which are allowed to hang down over i the foot of the bed, in order that in the perfectly horizontal position of the patient, a continued extension may be kept up, by which necessarily the counter-extension can be made to operate, not merely by the simple weight of the body, but also by a cloth folded I longitudinally, carried between the thighs, and fixed to the bed’s head. On the day a after the drying of the apparatus, the straw splint-cloth and the straw splints are to be l removed, and a circular bandage applied from the foot to the hip. Two or three days 1 after the patient may be allowed to go with crutches, in which case the foot should be t supported by a bandage slung round the neck. 685. In transverse fractures in the middle of the thigh a simple appa- tus with splints and the limb put straight are sufficient. In fractures of I the upper and lower third, the half-bent, position is preferable on account i of the special displacement of the broken ends (par. 682) ; and in fracture 1 in the upper third immediately under the great trochanter, a position N approaching the sitting posture is preferable, because thereby only can I the lower end be kept in corresponding position with the upper end of the i fracture. But it must be here observed whether the fracture be not so near the joint and connected with such injury that stiffness will ensue, in ■' which case the straight position with or without tension according to cir- > cumstances must be employed. The half-bent position of Bell and Cooper is preferable to Pott’s posture on the side. 1 686. In oblique fracture this treatment is rarely sufficient, as the broken surfaces after having been apposed cannot be kept in contact. In these cases the permanent extension is necessary, and in fractures in