SOFTENING.—MORTIFICATION. 53 lessened, the circulation seems to proceed but imperfectly, because the nerves are completely enveloped in the plastic mass which connects the several parts, and the more minute vessels are closed : hence the tempera- ture is lower, often sensibly so to the patient himself. Sometimes not the least inconvenience arises from the hardening; but it may run into inflammation, ulceration, and cancer (a). In every part inflammation may run into hardening; but especially in long-continued insidious inflammations ; in organs which possess a low degree of vitality, in glands, and those organs in which the very numerous ramifications of vessels are surrounded with dense cellular tissue, in persons of atrabiliary constitution, who have had much mental anxiety, have been subject to scrofula or other diseases which depend upon unnatural mingling ; of the juices. 21. The transition of Inflammation into Softening (Erweichung, Germ.) produces changes directly contrary to those caused by hardening, viz., diminished cohesion and consistence—liquescence. It occurs only in long i continued dyscratic and cachectic inflammations; it is always connected at the onset with collections of serous, not plastic, matter in the parenchyma ' of the part, which is therefore sometimes loosened up and thickened ; or it consists in actual deliquescence and dissolution of the parts, probably : i consequent on diminished or changed nervous influence. It may, to a cer- i tain extent, be considered as the intermediate condition between ulceration and mortification. The softer and looser the texture of an organ, so much I the more readily does softening take place, though it also occurs in hard tj organs ; for example, in the bones : childhood is most subject to it. In many i swellings softening precedes and accompanies their giving way. 22. Mortification ( Gangrcena, Sphacelus, Lat.; Brandy Germ.; Gan- \ gr'ene, Sphac'ele, Fr.) is the passage of inflammation into partial death, i and the mortified part is subject to the general chemical laws. We usually i distinguish with the name of mortification two conditions, viz., the hot ■v Mortification, ( Gangrcena, heissen Brand, Germ.; Gangrene cliaude ou Asphgxie desparties, Fr.,) in which the living power is not perfectly extin- 1. guished, and in which it may be restored to its natural action, (here there i is but a certain degree of inflammation,) and the cold Mortification, ( Spha- n celas, kalten Brand, Germ.; Gangrene froide, ou Sphac'ele, Fr.,) in which the part is actually dead. II [The division here employed by Chei.ius is that proposed by Dr. John Thomson. v Travers objects to the terms mortification and sphacelus on the following ground:—“ I do not,” says he, “ employ the term ‘ mortification ’ because it is not technically explicit, and has been vaguely and indiscriminately used. Nor shall I use the term ‘ sphacelus,' because gangrene is a sufficient synonyme, if the term gangrenous inflammation be ac- cepted, which presents the stages of recoverable and irrecoverable, threatened and devi- | tjd^ed texture. A gangrened part is never restored. By the arrest of gangrenous in- flammation, the gangrene may be circumscribed, and, by the supervention of other pro- • ce^ses, the dead may be cast off', and the living part repaired with more or less loss of substance. The special use of the term sphacelus has been to designate a state of ntter eath, in which the part becomes subject to chemical changes, as if severed from the > °dy, and such meaning I affix to the substantive term ‘ gangrene.’ ” (p. 2<>8.) Hence it K1 will be observed that Travers’s gangrenous inflammation, and his gangrene, are syno- i njmous with Chelius’s hot mortification, and with his cold mortification.—J. F. S.j 23. Mortification truly consists in the extinction of vascular and nervous activity, in consequence of which partial death ensues. This transition (a) WENZEL, Ueberdie Induration und das Geschwiir in indurirten Theilen. 8*o. Maim. 1815.