513 COMPOUND FRACTURES. as to bring the fractured ends of the bone into proper place, the splints attached to the apparatus are adjusted to the limb, and having been properly fastened, there is little possibility of displacement from whatever posture may be chosen to put the limb in. In the apparatus for the upper limb, the weight of the arm principally keeps up the ex- tension ; but the steadiness of the fracture is especially provided for by an angular splint applied in front of both upper and fore-arm. These contrivances are very effective in the treatment of fractures, and will occasionally be advantageous when most other attempts fail; but I think they are objectionable on account of their complicity, which requires especial instruction to understand, so as to apply them properly; for otherwise they are not merely useless, but injurious, by the unequal and misplaced pressure they produce, the result of which very commonly is, tiresome sores; and for their cure it is often necessary to free the limb entirely from any apparatus. They have also the in- convenience, especially those for the lower limbs, of rarely being capable of proper ad- justment, on acount of the variety of people’s size, to more than two or three persons; and hence at least half-a-dozen sets of various length should be always at hand, which in country practice cannot be expected, where also there is little probability of pro- perly repairing the apparatus, in case of breaking or disarrangement. I must confess that I consider the more simple are the means employed for treating either simple or compound fracture the better. The starched and gummed bandages have rendered this part of surgical practice as simple as it is efficient; but if the Sur- geon prefer wooden splints, he can always readily furnish himself, with or without the aid of a carpenter, with pieces of deal about three inches wide and the sixth of an i inch thick, which he can cut to the requisite length for the limb on which the splints are to be applied. These together with pads and bandages are sufficient for the treatment of almost every fracture, either simple or compound; for the Surgeon will do well to 1 remember that the well-doing of the case depends rather on the way in which he ad- j justs the apparatus, of whatever kind it may be, than on the gimcraekery with which i some mechanical Surgeons are fond of furnishing it.—J. F. S.] [589.* After the protruding ends of the fractured bone have been drawn back, so far as possible, into their natural place, the choice of position in which the limb should be put, is the next point for determination. To i this the Surgeon is directed by the situation of the wound, it being neces- - sary that the limb should be placed, if possible, so that the daily or more frequent dressings may be effected without its being disturbed ; but if, as i sometimes happens, this cannot be avoided, that the position should be ■ such as should permit dressing with least movement. Practical experience can alone specially guide the Surgeon as to the best mode of effecting this 1 object; but the general rule is, so to place the limb that if suppuration be expected, the pus may have the opportunity of escaping as it is secreted from the wound, and not the probability of burrowing, which materially interferes with the cure, and wastes the constitutional powers, by the irri- tation it keeps up. The choice of the apparatus to be employed in the treatment of the case must also, in many instances, materially depend upon i the seat and extent of the wound ; for though the practitioner may have ; a preference for one kind over another, he will be much disappointed if he expect that one apparatus and one position is suitable on all occa- i sions. Having determined the position, and prepared the apparatus which he has selected, the fracture is immediately to be put up ; and this, it will be observed, is a very remarkable difference from the treatment recommended in simple fracture. But in compound fracture, the swelling, if it at all occur, is but slight, as the serous part of the blood readily escapes by the i wound, and more readily if the wound be large, so that there is little or no fear of mischief from the increase of the swelling tightening the bandages and causing the inconvenient squeezing of the limb, which happens in simple fracture, if the apparatus be immediately put on. The great object in compound fracture is to render it, as soon as possible, simple, by healing VOL. i. 2 L