317 ACTUAL CAUTERY IN AFTER-BLEEDING. During the progress of the case I was asked why I did not slit up the sinus, and tie the artery again. But if it did not heal when one ligature was applied, it was highly probable it would not if a second were put on. I was also asked, whether I would not tie it as in tying the artery above for aneurism. But then we should have still been in the neighbourhood of the diseased part: the same accident would have recurred, and probably the vessel would have bled again by anastomosis. To prevent this bleeding it was that I cauterized the aneurismal structure, for the purpose of producing a change in the action of the vessels. This case presented to me a new view of the subject, haemorrhage. It appeared the cause of the bleeding originated in a new structure being built up, whilst the artery was enlarged by absorption, so that a sort of aneurism was found at its extremity. I do not mean that sort of aneurism in which one side only of the vessel becomes diseased, but where a general circular dilatation takes place. This explains my reason for not applying a ligature upon the vessel, for had it been put on it would have given -way : just as would an aneurism, if a ligature could be passed around it. The enlargement of the extremity of the artery is similar to what occasionally happens after bleeding from the temporal artery ; you puncture the vessel, take as much blood as you wish : but, expecting to require more in a day or two, you do not divide it, but apply a com- press. A spurious aneurism soon follows, and is occasionally accompanied with a sinus, from which repeated and obstinate hemorrhages occur. Four or live years ago I saw a man in Guy’s Hospital bleeding from a sinus, with which the dressers had been harassed night and day making pressure with the thumb on the vessel, which seemed to be the commencement of such a case as I have described. It appears to me, there- fore, that the advantage of using the actual cautery consists in changing the action of I the part, and rapidly inducing the adhesive inflammation. After the employment of the actual cautery in after-haemorrhage, pressure should be made on the artery with a tourniquet, with the linger, or with the pad of a truss, which is better than a tourniquet, as it touches only two points and does not prevent the blood circulating to the stump for its support; and this pressure should he continued till there has been sufficient time for the effusion of lymph. In the second case the patient did not feel pain when the hot iron was applied to the artery, which was a remarkable circumstance. But although it should give pain, yet Iit ought not on that account to be disused. It is a case of life and death. The pain is supportable, and soon goes off. It is remarkable in cases of haemorrhage, that when something efficient is done, before there is time for any change to take place, the system becomes tranquil, there seems to be a sympathy between the arterial system and the diseased extremity of the vessel; and so long is the patient in a state of uneasiness as this something efficient remains undone. This is what Mr. Hunter called a “ consciousness of wrong,” the body being a unable to be at rest, wanting to do a something which nature is incapable of accom- plishing. In the two cases above mentioned, I feel certain that the haemorrhage ceased from the i use of the actual cautery. I am not an advocate for using this remedy instead of liga- tures; it is not so convenient nor so certain as ligatures, in recent cases. It is only i when you can do nothing else that I recommend its use. It must be applied up the canal of the artery, or else the end only is shrivelled and no union produced. I find that the mere burning or searing the extremity of an artery is not to be depended on even in quadrupeds; the vessel will still bleed: I am certain, therefore, it would not do in the human subject. And I conceive that by the old method of applying the actual cautery, the bleeding was stopped by burning all the parts which constringed and pressed upon the vessels. I have ascertained that this method is sufficient in the dead subject to prevent injection being forced out; but, by simply cauterizing the arteries in the old way, without touching the surrounding parts, this cannot be effected. The instruments required for this operation are a straight wire of corresponding size to the vessel to be cauterized, fitted with a canula, closed at its extremity to prevent the blood flowing into it and cooling the hot iron. ! The artery having been slit up, as already mentioned, the canula is to be passed up into its sound part, having been first smeared with grease, which renders its introduction and removal easier, and also when heated burns the vessel with the hot grease, and assists in exciting the inflammation. The cautery iron having been heated, is then to be introduced into the canula at a black heat. The object is not to destroy the parts, nor to bring on sloughing, but only to produce a higher degree of inflammation, so that an effusion of lymph may soon take place and seal up the vessel; and for this purpose the black heat is sufficient. After the cauterization is effected, the canula may be with-