658 LOCAL APPLICATION. pulse is quickened, that the secretions are increased, and the predominant increase may be in the saliva, in the urine, in the perspiration, or in the secretion from the bowels, that the muscular strength is diminished, and that the body wastes. We may be there- fore satisfied if any of these effects are produced, and we must be careful not to push tha operation too far.”] 832. If the ulcer be obstinate, or the condition of the patient render the observation of the dietetic treatment already mentioned impossible, then sublimate must be used, beginning with the eighth of a grain daily and gradually ascending. In chancres which spread unusually quickly even during the internal and external use of the sublimate, in which the edges of the ulcer are extremely hard, and their surface has a carcino- matous appearance, the quieting and cleansing of the ulcer is effected merely by the external use of the red precipitate, and smart touching of the whole surface of the sore with lunar caustic. Thisdocal treatment is however, hurtful if there be general irritation present, under which circumstances only a soothing treatment to diminish the irritation should be employed. The recommendation that in the treatment of primary syphilitic affections nothing should be applied locally, so that the changes of the sore may indicate more certainly the corresponding destruction of the disease by the mercury employed only internally, is objectionable, because by local treatment the sore is often easily brought to a simple state, and the longer the ulcer exists, the more is the general infection to be feared from absorption of the poison. Delpech (a) considers that in primary syphilitic affections, mercury in the way of friction of ung. hydr. cin. maybe most efficiently employed in the neighbourhood of the infected part for the prevention of general infection. [When a chancre takes on a sloughing character, as described by Lawrence, it must not on any account be treated with mercury in any form, either internally or ex- ternally, for its employment will only aggravate the mischief, render the sore still more irritable and active, and hasten and extend the spread of the sloughing process. When, therefore, a chancre begins to slough under the use of mercury, that must be immediately suspended. The local treatment of brushing over the whole surface with strong nitric acid as recommended by Welbank (6), once or twice, is the best that can be adopted. In the course of a few hours, generally, the pain subsides, the sloughing process is arrested the angry red edges around the slough begin to grow pale, suppuration is set up, and the line of demarcation between the living and dead parts appears, and gradually deepening, the slough is completely defined, and slowly separates from the healthy parts beneath. After the application of the acid, a stimulating poultice of yeast, stale beer, or treacle, should be applied, either directly to the surface of the sloughing sore, or lint dipped in nitric acid wash, or in solution of chloride of soda, may be interposed. As in these cases there is always great restlessness as well as depression of the constitutional powers, opium, either as laudanum, or as the salts of morphia, must be given in sufficient quantity to produce quiet and sleep. The patient’s strength must be supported by the most nourish- ing diet, and brandy, or gin, or porter, or both, in sufficient quantity, must be given; two, four, or six ounces of the former, with one or two pints of the latter daily, are almost always requisite, as these frightful cases usually occur in persons, especially women, who are accustomed to live almost entirely on spirits and can take little food. Some recommend the application of leeches upon the inflamed circumference of the sore, but they should never be used as they only assist in diminishing the patient’s powers, already too much depressed. The recovery from this complaint, after the separation of the slough, is very slow, aud the discharge very profuse; good diet, with the spirits, or porter, in diminishing quantity, is, therefore, to be continued ; and the wound may be treated, either simply with nitric acid wash and poultice, with the latter alone, or with some mild greasy ap- plication, to which the medical attendant will be guided, by observing what best agrees with the sore, and which will not be the same with all patients. It is a very interesting fact, that secondary symptoms, after sloughing chancre, are extremely rare, the disease seeming to exhaust itself by the virulency with which it has seized on the part attached. Therefore, mercury ought not on any account to be ex- hibited as a preventive against symptoms which probably will never occur.—J. F. S.] (a) Above cited. (6) In Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xiii.