525 RE-BREAKING OF BADLY-UNITED FRACTURES. bone. If the wound be on the side, or on the back of the leg, it is easily dressed by unpinning an end of one or more pieces of the bandage, the other pieces still keeping up the suspension. Either of the swing-apparatus may be used for simple fracture, and the swing-box : often is advantageous when the fracture is very oblique, and the patient very unsteady. I Some Surgeons prefer treating compound fractures with Amesbury’s apparatus; but I prefer either of those I have mentioned. Sometimes, however, the one will answer when the other will not, and the employment of either must be left to the Surgeon’s judgment.—J. F. S.] 592. After the cure of the fracture a stiffness generally remains in the B neighbouring joints, which gradually subsides under the use of volatile rubbing, baths, and by the motions of the joint. To prevent the stiffness an early motion of the joint has been recommended ; but when the joint is inflamed such early movements only increase the danger of stiffness. 593. The re-breaking of badly-united fractures, recommended from the earliest times, has been of late years universally rejected as rough and un- necessary. Oestereen («) has, however, communicated some very good observations on this subject, from which it appears that, in fractured bones so badly cured that considerable deformity, great curving and shortening of the limb are produced, its use completely destroyed or rendered exceed- q ingly difficult, continued pain and the like caused, if no more benefit can be gained by extension and bandaging, and if the person be not too old, too weak, suffering from consumption, gout, and the like, the re-breaking of the bone in the callus may be attended with the most happy results. How long this breaking of the callus may be possible is not determined ; it, however, depends on the state of the patient, on the condition of the broken bone, the place of the fracture, the size and condition of the callus. IOesterlen’s observations prove that the operation on the bones of the thigh and leg healed with a large quantity of callus, may be performed even in the seventeenth week with happy result; his experiments made on the human subject principally go only to the twenty-sixth week. In young persons and in bones not strong, as those of the-fore arm, re-breaking of the callus is possible even after the lapse of a year, if the callus be not particularly thick. 594. If the callus be still recent and not in great quantity, the fracture can be effected by pretty strong extension and counter-extension, and by pressure upon the callus with the hands. If, however, the callus be tough the re-breaking is best managed by a proper apparatus. Bosch has pro- 1 posed for this purpose a screw-machine, like a printer’s-press, between the 1 boards of which the limb is laid, and the pressure effected by a screw fur- nished with a pad. Oestereen (a) has altered this machine, so that the part furnished with the screw is fixed at both ends on the limb (Di/stnor- phosteopalinclastes.') AVasserfuiir (b) divided the soft parts over a thigh-bone united at a right angle, sawed into the callus, and then broke it by pressing a wooden pyramid covered with leather in a proper direction upon the callus. When the break has been effected, it must be treated according to the general rules. Here must be mentioned the pretended softening of callus by plaster, poultices, salves, and the like; the treatment according to the kind of distortion by stretching and pressing (o) Ueber das kiinstliche Wieilerabbrechen fch- von Graefe in his Journal fiir Chirurgie, vol. lerhaft geheilter Ivnoclien der Extremitiiten tin xxi. pt. i. Callus, zum Beliuf einer besseren, geraden Ilei- Bi.asius in Med. Vereinszeitung in Freussen, lung. Tubingen, 1827. 8vo. with a lithographic 1833. No.xlix. pl*tc. Jerichow, Dissert. deOsteopalinclast. Ilal.,1833. (b) In Rust's Magazin, vol. xxviii. p. 300.