483 THE WOMB. the indispensable predisposition to its lesions ; and as it is most commonly for and by the product of conception that this development is effected, the state of gestation thus becomes the usual though not exclusive predisposing cause of solutions of continuity of the womb, both spontaneous and accidental.” (p. 12.) In the unimpregnated state of the womb it may be burst by collections of blood in its cavity, as in the case under the care of Latour, of Orleans, in which a woman who had ceased to menstruate when forty years old, observed, when she was fifty, a swelling in her belly, which gradually and enormously increased, accompanied with insupport- able pains; these ceasing suddenly, the swelling subsided, the patient became enfeebled, and (lied next day. On examination, the peritoneum was found full of blood ; the womb was still expanded and wide open, its walls were firm and thick, but towards its fundus was a large tear; the neck was cartilaginous and entirely obliterated. In another case mentioned by Duparcque, the patient, who had left menstruating at forty-nine years, was attacked four years after with discharges of blood at irregular periods Some time after, the discharge ceased, and the belly swelled so as to descend to the knees. She had repeated vomitings of black matter like coffee grounds. Marasmus and death ensued. The womb was found enormously distended, and its walls extremely thin ; its neck obliterated by a steatomatous tumour. The womb was full of fluid like that she had vomited, and in it was an aperture communicating with the stomach, to which it had adhered, (pp. 13, 14.) In the ruptures of the womb which occasionally happen during pregnancy (a), it is said that “ the body is the only part liable to this injury, for the cervix uteri continues to be, until the very end of gestation, the thickest part of the organ, whilst its situation within the pelvis defends it from external injury. The causes which most frequently produce this I accident act from without, either mediately, as when violence is inflicted on the abdomen, or immediately, as when the contraction of the abdominal parietes themselves occasions the accident. The pregnant uterus, like a bladder filled with water, can yield but little to compression, and if it is subjected to force exceeding a certain degree it gives way. Ruptures thus produced take place as by contrecoup, that is to say, the rent takes place at a distance from the part on which the violence was inflicted, and thus it happens that the uterus usually gives way near its fundus, or a little to one side.” (p. 487.) “The acci- dent invariably proves fatal to the Jcetus, and generally, though not always, it causes the death of the mother. Sometimes the mother dies from the sudden shock to the nervous system, but her death is oftener the result of haemorrhage and of the consequent effusion of blood into the abdomen. In some cases, however, where the entire ovum has escaped into the abdomen, the contraction of the uterus suppresses the haemorrhage, or the re- traction of the vessels, which takes place especially in a lacerated wound,” [certainly not, but rather by the sheathing of cellular tissue, with which the torn ends of the vessels are surrounded.—j. f. s.] “ prevents a copious bleeding. If the woman has survived the immediate perils of the accident, the dangers of inflammation of the uterus and peri- toneum still await her, and often terminate her life. Still there are several cases on record in which the patient has ultimately recovered, and not only lived for years, but has even given birth to living children.” The extruded foetus in these cases is enclosed r in a pseudo-membranous cyst, which has sometimes undergone calcareous transforma- ,1- tion, and remained from twenty to forty-six years. “ In many cases recovery is very i'-1 imperfect, and the contents of the uterus when expelled into the abdomen excite inflam- i mation and suppuration ; the bones of the foetus are discharged through the vagina, rectum, I or abdominal parietes, and the patient dies worn out by protracted suffering.” (p. 489.) Duparcque observes “ that the dangers to which a person is exposed by this accident ■ i depend not so much on the circumstance of the uterus being wounded, as on the hamior- 7.. rhage which may be produced, or on the inflammation and its consequences which may m follow the escape of the foetus into the cavity of the abdomen. * * * Towards the end • of pregnancy the cervix uteri is often so dilatable, that an attempt to deliver by the natural B i passages might well deserve a previous trial (to the performance of the Caesarean oper- jii ation); or, if the cervix uteri were rigid, incisions might be made into it, a practice »•: successfully adopted by Dr. Smith of Maidstone (b). When pregnancy is not far ad- s' vanced, gastrotomy is the only means of interference within our power, and Duparcque kb thinks that its employment would afford a chance of recovery to patients who are now If i abandoned to almost certain death.” (p. 489.) (<0 1 Have availed myself of my friend Rigby's till the very last moment on Duparcque, and being vl review of Duparcque and Nevermann on this sub- unable to procure Nevermann, whose work is a II ject, in Forbes’s British and Foreign Medical German translation of the former with large ad- » Review, vol. x., not having been able to lay hands ditions.—.1. F. S. (6) Medico-Chirurg. Trans, vol. xiii. pt. i. 2 i 2