243 ANCHYLOSIS. is sometimes confined to one side of the joint. Such joints are sometimes seized with an acute attack of inflammation of that part which had been previously healthy ; sup- puration rapidly ensues, under which the failing of the patient’s health and powers de- mand amputation of the limb for the preservation of life. The two sides of the joint present different appearances: one shows no recent signs of inflammation; the ends of the bones are partially, perhaps wholly, deprived of their cartilage, or the cartilaginous ; surface is ulcerated only to a certain depth ; between the bones is seen the membrane 1 adhering to the cartilage, white, possessing scarcely a trace of vascularity, and merely serving to connect the ends of the bones by means of what is termed ligamentous an- chylosis. The other side of the joint is full of pus; every tissue in a state of active inflammation ; the cartilage removed by a rapid process of ulceration, in which the bone is probably found to have taken an active part; and the ends of the bone are seen covered with vascular fungous granulations, from which pus is abundantly secreted.” (pp. 227, 28.) With the correctness of these remarks I fully concur, and the following instances well support them, excepting that, in the first, the pus had been discharged, and, in the , second, ulceration had occurred without suppuration. Case 1.—B. S., aged nine years, a fair-haired strumous boy, became my patient in June, 1840. Five years ago he was attacked with swelling and lameness of the left knee, without any known cause; he was put under medical treatment, and afterwards i was admitted into the hospital, from which, about four years since, he was discharged ; ! and it may be presumed all active disease had ceased, as his mother was told that the , knee, which had become much bent, with the heel much raised from the ground, would I be restored, as his health recovered. No such improvement, however, has taken place, 1 and he has since gone about constantly on a crutch. Being a very active boy, he has fre- ; quently got falls, and hurt his knee; which, however, in the course of a few days have t been recovered from. Within the last two months he has fallen twice, but has not got H well as previously ; and though during the day his knee has been little painful, yet at | night it has become so much so as to prevent his sleeping. The leg is now beut nearly at a right angle with the thigh ; it can be bent a little i more, but not straightened; the great toe only touches the ground, but he cannot bear i upon it. The knee is rather larger than natural, especially the inner condyle ; and both 1 condyles project a little over the front of the head of the shin-bone. There is a little fulness above the knee-cap, as if the joint were distended; but there is little tendcr- r ness, and gentle motion does not cause pain. During a month nothing was done except keeping quiet; and it was observed that, if i he did not move about during the day, he had not any pain at night. The joint then ,'iseeming to be perfectly free from irritation, I thought it advisable to attempt straighten- [} ing the leg, sufficient to bring the foot down and render the limb useful. A hinge-splint, i adapted to the bent state of the limb, was, therefore, adjusted to the back of the leg and it thigh, which it was purposed slowly to extend by a screw, the two ends of which w ere Ijaffixed to the two portions of the splint. This practice was continued for some weeks without benefit; but swelling coming on, attended with pain and tenderness, it was dis- ,i continued, and amputation successfully performed in the September following. I On examination, the whole joint was found largely covered with fat; and immediately 1 ’^bove the knee-cap an abscess, about the size of a shilling, communicating with the joint , ■ below the front of the outer condyle by a narrow passage an inch long, lined with ad- pffiesive matter, but not containing pus. There is not any dislocation, but mere bending • of the leg upon the thigh-bone. The cavity of the joint was destroyed, and the opposed * bony surfaces united with fibrous matter, but some of the cartilage still remained. |M^ Case 2.—J. P., aged nineteen years, a dark-haired scrofulous lad, came under my ° ^T?yem^er 1839. Eight years ago, whilst running, he felt a sudden snap in his i ett knee-joint, and almost immediately a sw elling appeared above the base of the knee- i -aP> rather larger than a pigeon’s egg, but unattended with pain. This on the following nornmg had subsided, but another swelling presented itself on the inside of the ham, ■ ’th K-raS at,once blistered by his medical attendant. On the next day he was attacked ■ ivith bilious fever, which confined him to bed fifteen weeks, and reduced him very much ; * durmg this time he did not suffer any pain or inconvenience in his knee. Soon ■ i er getting about, the knee began to swell and to become stiff, but unaccompanied with I r aU<^ ?ot Prevenbng bis walking. Leeches were once applied, and an evaporation II ion used, but nothing more done; and at the end of a twelvemonth, the knee having ! >ecoine fixed in a straight position, he was told he had a white-swelling, and the removal ■ ne limb advised, to which, however, lie would not submit. Ilis health continued I ,P1*>-r0Vin}V an^ **.e walked about with the aid of a stick, without pain, or further inoon- I1' nence than a little halting, as late as July last, when he took a walk of fourteen miles it 2