! 462 TREATMENT OF WOUNDED be rejected. The cutting off the caul produces much bleeding; its reduction brings a half-mortified structure in contact with a healthy one, which often produces severe in- flammation ; the ligature of the whole, in most cases, reproduces the symptoms of con- striction. If the wound, through which the caul has protruded, be very narrow, it happens, though very rarely, that, from the swelling of its edges and of the caul, symp- toms of constriction appear. If these symptoms be not relieved, as they almost always are by blood-letting, diet, bathing, softening fomentations, leeches, or, lastly, by enlarg- ing the wound, when they run on to death, suppuration of the caul to a great extent and abscesses at different parts, and more or less firm adhesions with the corresponding sur- face of the peritoneum are found. Inflammation of the caul is, however, much more frequent after it has been tied and retained, than after the above practice, in which a strict antiphlogistic treatment, and an enlarging of the wound at the time, is nearly always sufficient to relieve the symptoms. 521. All the intestines of the belly may be injured by penetrating wounds; the danger of the wound is then greater and in the intestine so much the more as it is nearer the pylorus. The symptoms to be feared are effusion of faces, blood, bile, and the like, and violent inflammation. 522. The peculiar symptoms of Wounds of the intestinal canal are, the patient vomits blood or passes it with his stools (1) ; stinking air and feculent matter escape from the wound ; if the wounded gut protrude through the opening, it is found collapsed, and the wound in it may be seen (2). If the wounded gut be in the belly, these symptoms often first appear subsequently, and the injury of the intestine can then only be pre- sumed from the depth to which the wounding instrument has penetrated and from the existing symptoms, the great anxiety, and so on, {par. 509,) the tension and painfulness of the belly. [(1) Vomiting of blood, or passing blood by stool, does not always follow a wounded intestine ; nor is extravasation of its contents into the peritoneal cavity a necessary con- sequence, although the wound may not be small. Case 1.—A sailor was admitted into St. Thomas’s Hospital many years ago, having been stabbed in the left hypochondrion by a bayonet, which “entering the jejunum at its commencement on the left side of the spine, traversed the duodenum and perforated it at its second turn.” He vomited incessantly, and towards the evening of his death he threw up feculent matter, but never any blood, nor did he pass any by stool. He lived about thirty hours. There was not any feculent effusion in the cavity of the peritoneum, and the wound in the intestine was so small that it had been nearly overlooked, (pp. 19, 20.) This case is related by Travers (a). Case 2.—W. H., aged fifteen years, was admitted under my friend Green’s care, Oct. 31,1827. Having fallen some height on his belly upon an iron bar, he had severe pain and tenderness all over the belly, but specially at the pit of the stomach ; great difficulty of breathing; pale anxious countenance; cold sweats, and constant vomiting of green, thin, watery fluid. In the course of the same evening he had a small motion, but no blood either in it or in the vomit. He died in about thirty hours. A wTound an inch in length was found in the jejunum. The whole peritoneal cavity was highly inflamed, and containing a large quantity of serous effusion, but neither blood nor stool. Case 3.—M. C., aged twenty-eight years, was admitted under my late colleague Tyrrell, July 27, 1829. Shortly after eating his dinner was crushed between a waggon and a post. He had great tenderness of the belly, difficulty of breathing, and cold sweat. He vomited continually, but not any blood, and no relief was obtained from his bowels. He died in about fourteen hours. The jejunum vras ruptured, and the edges of the wound everted and ragged. The peritoneum was inflamed, and its cavity contained some bloody serum, but no feculent matter. Case 4.—J. L., aged eighteen years, was admitted on the evening of July 16, 1829. Having been struck by some part of the machinery of a working steam- engine, which tore a wound in his belly from a little below the navel to the outer side of the thigh, extending over the hip-bone. Through this wound nearly all the small intestines and the sigmoid flexure of the colon were protruded, the latter having in it a wound of half an inch in length. Being in attendance for my friend Green, I tied the (a) Cited at the head of the article.