OF LENGTHENED UVULA. 147 carotid artery was tied. The bleeding now ceased completely; the wound rapidly closed, and the ligature came away on the twelfth day; in a short time after which he was discharged cured. This case seems to bear a close resemblance to that of Lawrence’s ; and both may, perhaps, be explained, on the presumption that the small vessels of the enlarged tonsil gland were unable either to contract or retract, in consequence of the adhesive matter with which the cellular tissue of the gland was filled, and by which its enlargement was caused, preventing their closure.—J. F. S.] 135. The Uvula is frequently so relaxed and lengthened by long- continued and repeated inflammation, that great inclination to cough and vomit, and difficulty in swallowing, is produced. In less degrees of swelling strongly astringent gargles of decoction of oak bark with alum, tincture of catechu, touching with acid, stimulating substances, with lunar caustic (1) and so on, are serviceable. In greater swelling, if these means fail, the removal of the uvula is called for. The patient being placed in the same position as for the removal of the tonsils, the uvula is to be taken hold of with a pointed hook, and the superfluous part cut off' with scissors or with the kiotome. The after-treatment is similar to that for removal of the tonsils. (1) Bennati (a) recommends cauterization with nitrate of silver by means of a double caustic-holder. The simple operation of removing the uvula was performed before the time of Hip- pocrates by cutting, and in this way it has been mentioned by Celsus, Galen, Oribasius, Aetius, and Paulus /Egineta, by means of the already-mentioned various instruments used for removal of the tonsils, to which must be added the staphylayra of Paulus ASgineta, to hold, and the staphylotome to cut with ; Thorbern’s (of Nor- way) instrument (6), with the alterations by Rau (c), by Bass (d), by Fritze (e). The cauterization first mentioned by Demosthenes of Massilia was performed by Paui.cs .ZEgineta with the aid of a staphylokauston, and, by the Arabians, partly by caustic and partly by red hot iron ; Pare used the ligature and the two Fabricii em- ployed, by turns, scissors, caustic and ligature. [Relaxation and elongation of the uvula is a most troublesome complaint. Astley Cooper, who never removed more of the uvula than would reduce it to its proper pro- > portions, as, if the whole were cut-off, fluids could not be taken without their passing into the nostrils, and without interference with articulation being produced, did not, however, consider any benefit was derivable from the operation, as the uvula almost invariably i again acquired its natural length. Neither can I advise it, because from personal ex- perience I know it to be unnecessary. It is commonly sympathetic with irritation of the alimentary canal, and when that is quieted, the uvula resumes its ordinary length. It often becomes very red, lengthens and swells in the course of an hour, and, by its con- stantly dropping on the epiglottis, irritates it, and excites a constant hacking cough, and frequently a sense of choking; the best immediate remedy for which is closing the Mouth, and breathing through the nostrils. I have tried all sorts of astringent gargles, hut found little relief from them ; and have only been benefited by painting with a strong solution of nitrate of silver twice or thrice a-day, according to the irritation pro- ceed.— J. F. S.] II.—OF INFLAMMATION OF THE PAROTID GLAND. Laghi, T., Historia Epidemical constitutonis, in qua Parotides seroso glutine tumentes u 'edduntur, qua; anno 1753 Bononia; contigit; in Comment. Bonon., vol. v. p. 1. 1 Hamilton, R., Account of a Distemper, by the common people in England vulgarly ■ailed the Mumps ; in Trans, of Roy. Soc. of Edinburgh, vol. ii. p. 59. 1790. IIopff, Diss. de Angina, Parotidea. Goettiug, 1799. (“)_Bulletin ties Sciences Mcdicales, 1831, Aoiit, (c) IIf.ister, pi. xxi. fig. 8. ~lu* (d) Nuck, p. 141. (o) Ihos. Bartholin., Obs. Anatom., cent. ii. (e) Med. Annal., vol. i. Lcipsic, 1,81. oos. 88. Scultetus Armament, pi. ix. fig. 1.