OPERATION FOR 606 velum may be in a state of repose, and the pared edges may not be pulled asunder by any convulsive action of the parts during the process of union. In other words, he ad- vises, as an important accessory to the operation of staphyloraphy the division of the levator palali and palato-p/taryngeus muscles, and, if requisite, the palato-glossus (a). 736. If in very large cleft, the closure be difficult and only to be effected with great stretching, in consequence of which severe inflammation and tearing of the sutures are to be dreaded, the satisfactory result of stitch- ing the palate is rendered most certain, according to Dieffenbach (6), by making an incision with a bistoury down to the bone on each side of the closed cleft of the palate, and half an inch distant from the lower edge of its arch. This immediately produces relief from all tension, the united edges hang loosely in the middle, unite together and the threads neither cut in nor through ; the patient breathes freely through the holes, as otherwise the great swelling of the palate renders breathing very difficult. In the previous tension of the palate there is also great increase of sub- stance as the lateral openings are closed by granulation in from ten to fourteen days. When at the same time there is a cleft in the hard palate and considerable separation of the edges of the cleft, it may be necessary for effecting the union to separate the soft palate, to some extent from the hard palate, by two horizontal incisions. Bonfils (c), after paring the edges, separates a V'shaped piece of skin from the palate, corresponding to the cleft, and unites it by the interrupted suture. In a case in which the cleft of the soft was connected with that of the hard palate, and the distance of the edges was great, for the purpose of bringing them into contact, Roux, after putting in the stitches, and paring the edges, made two horizontal cuts, which divides the soft from the hard palate, and extended from the edge of the cleft somewhat above the perpendicular of the ligatures on both sides. The edges of the cleft may in this way be easily united. In one case, in which with a cleft of the soft palate there was also a very considerable wolf’s jaw, and the union of the soft palate thereby rendered impossible, Krimer (d) made on both sides two longitudinal incisions, four lines distant from the edge of the cleft, which joined together at an obtuse angle in front, and terminated behind at the still projecting portion of the soft palate ; the soft parts were then divided by these cuts towards the edge of the palate, that a pair of wedge-like flaps were formed with their bases behind. After the bleeding had been stanched with sage-water and alum, the flaps were turned inwards, so that their palatine surface was level with the floor of the nostrils, and the sewing together of the palate was then effected with the needle-holder in the ordinary way. Dieffenbach (e) proceeds more simply ; after closing the cleft in the soft palate, he separates the soft parts on the hard palate, shaves the bone, aud draws together the edges with lead wire. [Mutter mentions that Warren of Boston, U. S., had succeeded in closing a deficiency in the upper part of a palatine cleft, or that portion which extended into the hard palate, by detaching the mucous membrane, and sliding it from each side to the median line, uniting the flaps by two or three sutures.” (p. 20.)] 737. After the operation, the patient may neither speak, nor take food, nor swallow his spittle, but must have it removed from his lips with a cloth, or carefully allowed to flow into a vessel, and everything must be avoided which may excite coughing, sneezing, or laughing. At the end of the third the upper, and at the end of the fourth day the lower stitch may be removed, the knots being held with a pair of forceps and the thread cut by its side with a pair of scissors and drawn out in the contrary direction. Nourishing broths may be taken at first in small quantity and with great caution, and when the union has become firm, more solid food may be allowed. (n) Medical Gazette, N. S., vol. i. p.389.1844-45. (d) von Grab fe und von Walther's Journal, (b) In Rust’s Magazin, vol. xxix. p. 491. vol. x. p. 625. (e) Journal de Medecine, 1830, December, p.297. (c) Rust’s Magazin, vol. xxx. p.288.