DISTINCTION BETWEEN IT AND CARIES. 689 becomes diseased. When inflammation attacks the substance of the bone, it is seldom that the whole diameter of the bone swells, generally only one side, where the suppuration is. This must at first be much confined, from the solid parts around, and ulcerative inflammation is obliged to take place early ; and accordingly, as in common abscesses, the ulceration goes on towards the soft parts, and until it arrives there it is impossible to tell whether there is abscess in the bone or not. * * * The third species.—Inflam- mation in the medullary part is still more serious in its consequence than the last. The body of the bone thickens from the adhesive disposition, and also the ossific disposition takes place in some degree in the periosteum all round, so that the external parts are much increased in bulk: this only takes place in the bones of the extremities, where streng this necessary, and never in the scalp, &c. The ossific disposition in the me- dullary parts takes place at all points of the abscess, and by this the other part of the marrow is saved. When suppuration takes place, there being no vent obliges the ulcerative inflammation to take place. * * * In the two last mentioned we have often exfoliations, as well as in the first (species); but they are less favourable from their situation being different, and are called internal exfoliations.” (p. 513-15.)] 871. The diagnosis is more certain, if the piece of bone be apparent in the aperture of the ulcer and be black ; but if it be white and dry, the previous symptoms and the duration of the disease must decide whether it be exposure or actual deatli of the bone. In all cases, examination with the • probe or with the finger, if the size of the aperture will allow its introduc- tion, with which the dead bone is sometimes felt to be movable, affords suffi- cient information. If the previous symptoms have been slight, it is probable that the necrosis is superficial. This may be presumed with more cer- tainty, if the earlier swelling have not spread to the whole extent of the bone, and the pain be more superficial. The size of the dead piece of bone is determined by the extent of the swelling, and the distance of the orifices of the fistulous openings from each other. If there be several dead pieces of bone at the same time, they are felt on examination by the several apertures at different places, and a swelling answering to each of them is observed. The corresponding fistulous apertures also do not heal, although some pieces of bone have been removed ; they often, however, do not heal after the complete removal of the dead pieces of bone, because they go very deeply, and considerable suppuration occurs. Ill-conditioned, stinking, blackish pus is no certain sign of necrosis; on the contrary, the suppuration is mostly good, and ordy degenerates when the general health is disturbed. # Although caries and necrosis are alike in many symptoms, as in the two diseases i similar causes give rise to both, as the bones are laid bare by the removal of the soft parts, and less or greater portion of the substance of the bone is lost and suppuration is present, yet they are distinguished by the following circumstances:—Caries occurs especially in bones of a spongy texture, necrosis, on the contrary, in bones of a closer character; in superficial caries the swelling has not at first so great extent as in bony gangrene; the swelling in caries mostly opens itself to a greater extent, fistulous pas- sages often occur which become callous; in necrosis these openings have ordinarily a fleshy wall; in caries stinking ichor flows, but in necrosis true pus, which is only bad when retained too long by improper treatment, or when the neighbourhood is much irritated, or when caries also exists; in caries there are vital appearances, injection of vessels, loosening up, suppuration and successive destruction, therefore is the touch of the probe painful, whilst the necrosed bone is insensible and pain is only produced by harsh touching, and which spreads to the sound parts ; the softening which accompanies or precedes caries extends further and loses itself imperceptibly, and above all, where it exists the bony cells are filled with reddish fluid; in necrosis it is developed in sound parts, is less extensive, and produces only one layer of granulations, which are formed between the healthy and dead parts ; the fungosities of a carious bone are softer, graj er, more discoloured than those above and below a piece of the necrosed bone, and the latter have more of the appearance of the granulations of a suppurating wound; in caries the bone is rough, uneven, soft, broken up, fungous, and the probe easily pene- VOL. i. 2 Y