VESICO-VAGINAL FISTULA. 756 others.) The drawing together of the threads, hy passing them through several rosary 1 beads, and tying upon them, (Sen reger,) or with the ligature tyer, is improper. For the cases in which, on account of the thinness of the fistulous edges above described, the separation of the vagina from the bladder is not possible, Dieffenbach recommends the running stitch, in which without previously refreshing the edges, a very > thick thread is carried by a curved needle circularly around the fistula, some lines dis- tant from its edge, through the cellular tissue connecting the vagina with the bladder, in which the needle must be passed in and out three or four times through the same opening ; the thread is then to be firmly tied. (Compare par. 957.) 978. For the purpose of carrying off the urine with greater certainty from the wound thus brought together, puncture of the bladder above the pubes should, according to Wutzer, be performed. The patient must be removed from the position upon her belly to that on her back, and should be allowed some rest. She is then to be brought to the edge of the table, the thighs raised towards the belly, and after the still remaining urine is drawn off with an elastic catheter, the curved tube of the trocar furnished with a fishbone-plug, and oiled, is to be introduced through the urethra into the bladder ; the round head of the plug is then placed against the front wall in the direction towards the arch of the pubes, pressed pretty firmly on the hind surface of the lower notch of the synchrondrosis, and there kept some time constantly close to the pubic symphysis, raised along it from below upwards, till at last it can be felt through the abdominal coverings ; immediately above the pubes, and directly in its middle. The operator then firmly retains the tube in his right hand, in the position just men- tioned, places the tip of the forefinger and thumb of his left hand on either side of the projection artificially made above the pubic symphysis, and endeavours so to assist in fixing the extremity of the tube there pressed ] up ; an assistant then withdraws the plug, and in its stead introduces a curved stilette into the tube, so far upwards till the two handles completely meet to each other, and the point of the stilette at the same time pro- trudes through the upper opening of the tube. At this important moment the operator with his right hand takes hold of the handle of the tube with that of the stilette, and with strong pressure thrusts the stilette in a cor- responding direction upwards and forwards, through the front of the bladder and the wall of the belly. The accompanying tube he takes hold of at the same time, with the two fingers of the left hand conveniently disposed, keeps it steady, and then allows the stilette to be withdrawn hy an assistant, who also immediately carefully removes the handle of the tube, by gently drawing them apart. The operator now changes both hands, draws the tube with his right hand out of the belly till the hinder extremity directed by the left hand enters the cavity of the bladder, be- tween the orifices of the ureters, which can be ascertained by the careful introduction of the oiled tip of the finger into the vagina. For the pur- pose of keeping the tube in this position, it must be fixed immovably by means of wing screws, in the cleft of a previously well-fitted belly-girdle, after which the patient should be carefully conveyed to a bed previously prepared, placed on her belly, upon suitably cut out leather cushions, and properly buckled in it with suitable straps. In the gap of the bolster and beneath the point of the tube a basin should be placed to receive the urine flowing from it. For the arrangement of the trocar and bed, see Wutzer, above cited, pi. iv. and v. 979. The after-treatment must have special reference to the prevention of inflammation. According to Dieffenbach, besides rest and antiphlo-