WOUNDED INTESTINES. 467 entirely away and allowing the stitches to remain; a considerable part of it will fall into the cavity of the gut.” (pp. 277-81.) John Bell (a) objects to the practice of sewing up the whole wound in the intestines, and directs “ to make but one single stitch and sew the wounded intestine to the outward wound; there the gut will adhere, throw out its faeces for some time, and then heal, the outward and the inward wound uniting in one knot or scar.” (p. 523.) Travers’s views in some important respects resemble those of Benjamin Bell. He says:—“ Reflecting upon these results,(those from Shipton’s experiments,) and unac- quainted with the precise nature of the union by suture, I was induced to believe that simple apposition by the least possible interference, would suffice for the purpose of restoration. To determine which point, 1 divided the small intestine of a dog which had been for some hours fasting, and carried a fine stitch through the everted edges, at the point opposite to their connexion with the mesentery. The gut was then allowed to slip back and the wound was closed. The animal survived only a few hours. On examination the peritoneum appeared highly inflamed. Adhesions were formed among the neighbouring folds, and lymph was deposited in masses upon the sides of the wounded gut. This presented two circular orifices. Among the viscera were found a quantity of bilious fluid and some extraneous substances, and a worm was depending from one of the apertures. By the artificial connexion of the edges in a single point of their circumference, and their natural connexion at the mesentery, they could recede only in the intervals, and here they had receded to the utmost. The suture prevented the,con- traction of the circular fibres from the obliquity produced by the more powerful action of the longitudinal between the two fixed points. All circumstances therefore combined to facilitate effusion, the obvious cause of the quickly destructive inflammation.” In another experiment, “ I increased,” says Travers, “ the number of points of contact by placing three stitches upon a divided intestine, cutting away the threads and returning the gut. The animal refused food, and died on the afternoon of the second day. On examination, similar marks of inflammation presented themselves. The omentum was partially wrapped about the wound, but one of the spaces between the suture was un- covered, and from this the intestinal fluids had escaped. On cautiously raising the adhering omentum, the remaining stitches came in view. Here again the retraction was considerable and the intervening elliptical aperture proportionally large. On the side next the peritoneum, however, the edges were in contact and adhered, so as to unite the sections at an angle. From these experiments it appeared that apposition at a point or points is, as respects effusion, more disadvantageous than no apposition at all; for it admits of retraction and prevents contraction, so that each stitch becomes the extremity of an aperture, the area of which is determined by the distance of the stitches.” (p. 116-19.) Hennen says that he has only had two cases of wounds of the intestine, one with a shoemaker’s knife and the other with a sabre, and he “ practised the mode by a single stitch to the abdominal parietes and then closed the wound; * * * cutting off both ends of the ligature, and a perfect cure was effected in a few days in both cases.” (p. 412.)] 526. In considering these various modes of treating wounds of the in- testines, the objections made against stitching the intestines in general first present themselves. If every stitching of an intestine be considered as exceedingly dangerous, so much the more so must it be when, as com- monly, the gut becomes inflamed by the injury or by the admission of air. Stitches through the several coats of the intestines, the threads still being retained, always produce a dangerous degree of inflammation. Numerous cases, in which, after the application of stitches on the intestine, the pa- tient has soon died under very severe symptoms, prove this; and if some, after the employment of the stitch, have recovered, the reason is, that the stitches have torn out and the threads been discharged with the stools (/>). The union of the wound of the intestine never produces an immediate con- nexion of its edges; as the continuity of the canal of the intestine after wound is reproduced merely by the adhesion of the wounded intestine with the peritoneum, or the surface of the neighbouring intestine. The .stitch, also, cannot always be effectual on account of the escape of the fmcal matter, as the edges of the wound can never be kept in complete contact, but are (a) Principles ofSurgerv, Jsew Edit- 1826. vol. i. (6) Scarpa, al>ovecited.—Tbavers, above cited. 2 ii 2