116 TREATMENT OF BURNS, the bandages, as before: and, secondly, not to disturb those places which still continue easy in consequence of having undergone one or more sprinklings or dustings, until the return of pain or uneasiness shall indicate the necessity of repeating it. And, in this manner we must proceed the first two or three weeks, or until that period shall arrive when it will be necessary to make some addition to the flour.” (p. 17 6.) This addition consists of one portion of calamine powder to three of flour, gradually increasing the calamine till the proportions are equal, and then by degrees diminishing the flour till the calamine alone is applied, except some calamine ointment with an increased quan- tity of the earth, spread very thinly on linen, and laid over the powder. A moderate diet is allowed, commencing first with milk, puddings, broth, and soup. Medicines are to be used sparingly; but, if sleep cannot be obtained, then opiates,—Dover’s powder, perhaps, in preference to laudanum, in proper doses every four or six hours, rather than one large dose; or an opiate friction on any uuinjured but sufficiently extensive part to be effectual. Ward’s explanation of the modus operandi of flour is, “ that, by its instantaneous operation as an absorbent powder, in allaying the irritation, and partly by its coldness diminishing the temperature of the inflamed parts, it immediately arrests the rapid progress of the inflammation, and forms a fit medium or covering to prevent the access of the atmospheric air to a part of the body which is at all times peculiarly susceptible of its action (especially upon a large and extended surface of it) but which is now rendered a thousand times more susceptible than before. Marshall (a) makes the following observations on the modus curandi of the re- medy :—•“ This mild substance,” says he, “ is doubtless pre-eminent to all others hitherto in use, by imparting immediate ease to the inflamed and irritable surface; it rapidly heals by the scabbing process, in uniting with the discharge from the abraded cutis; and almost instantaneously forms a temporary semi-transparent covering, thereby assist- ing the natural functions in restoring the epidermis. The advantage becomes evident by stopping a profuse discharge, and the tedious progress of ulceration. That remarkable substance the animal (vegetable ?) gluten, peculiarly contained in wheat, seems, in this instance, to assist the rapid regeneration of the scarf-skin, and thus protects the cutis and rete mucosum. The surface of the body being wonderfully supplied by the extension of the cutaneous nerves, in the form of a soft pulpy membrane, somewhat resembling the expansion of the optic nerve on the retina, readily affords, it is presumed, an expla- nation of the great violence offered to the system in all cases of extensive burn or scald. The topical remedy is equally suitable to either of these accidents, and perhaps, eventually, will be found useful in many other cutaneous affections. * * * When the flour has formed the artificial covering, the further application becomes comparatively superfluous, which is perceived by its rolling off'.” (p. 298.) Beyond a single slight case, which did very well, I have no personal knowledge of the effects of flour; but I know some of my friends think it a good application.—J. F. S. On the primary treatment of these accidents Hunter says:—“ Whatever will abate in- flammation arising from accident, will have the same effect upon a scald or burn; and, from the diversities of applications, we have opportunities of knowing the best. Oil was long an application, but which has no virtue; spirits have also been long applied, and with very good effect. The common application, which is a soap made with lime water and oil, seemed to answer better; and now vinegar (&) is strongly recommended, and I think with justice as far as I have seen.” (p. 2IS.) The best secondary treatment Hunter considers to be that by scabbing, of which he says, “ the mode of assisting the cure of wounds by permitting a scab to form, is likewise applicable, in some cases, to that species of accident where the parts have not only been lacerated, but deprived of life.” And then observes:—“ This practice is the very best for burns or scalds, after the inflam- mation has either been considerably prevented, or subdued, by proper applications or by time, for which there probably are more remedies than for an inflammation arising from any other cause, as if there was something specific in such causes.” (p. 217.) The two French surgeons, Bretonneau of Tours and Velpeau, who have been already cursorily noticed as employing pressure in pseudo-erysipelas, have also recommended it in the treatment of burns. Bretonneau (c) advises the application of circular band- ages, either dry or moistened with a discutient or narcotic wash, the vesicles, if any, having been emptied by one or more punctures. He considers that the pressure, besides preventing exhalation of the serosity, keeps the cuticle on the rete mucosum, and thus (а) On the Treatment of Burns ; in London Me- Treatment; for which see his Account of a Method dical and Physical Journal. New Series, vol. vi. of Curing Burns and Scalds, in three Letters to John 1829. Hunter ; in Medical Tracts and Observations, (б) This was Cleohorn, tlieEdinburgh Brewer's vol. ii. Ixmdon, 1792. (c) Already quoted, par. 91, p. 108.