DIVISION OF THE ACHILLES’ TENDON. 491 large, warm applications are to be used, and in great painfulness, together with proper antiphlogistic treatment, internal and external narcotics are also to be employed. 561. If suppuration occur and the pus cannot readily escape from the wound, so soon as fluctuation is distinct, its escape must be provided for by a cut, and its further collection prevented. The joint is to be put into a proper position, and kept perfectly at rest; moist, warm poultices are to be laid over the joint, or the opening of the abscess only superficially dressed ; internal strengthening medicines are at the same time to be given and a nourishing diet, if the powers be diminished by the continuance of the suppuration. If the whole joint swell, it must be rolled daily with a circular bandage. Such position is to be given to the part as will be most suitable when anchylosis takes place. 562. Large chops and cuts of the knee and finger-joints, which pene- trate either through or into the bone require amputation. 563. In shot-wounds of joints, their size, the neighbourhood of large nerves and vessels, the proportionate injury of the ends of the bones, the constitution of the patient and the other relations concur in determining whether immediate amputation of the limb be necessary, or whether its preservation should be attempted. {See Gunshot Wounds.) The wounds of different joints are in this respect of different degrees of importance ; that of the knee is most dangerous, because rest is least pos- [: sible. Only in the case in which a ball has opened one side of the joint, i when no decided injury of the bone, or of the vessels and nerves there- with connected, and the pus readily escapes, may the preservation of the limb be attempted. Shot-wounds of the joints, of the hand and feet, not unfrequently permit the preservation of the limb ; in these, however, the ■ enlargement of the wound is always necessary, and subsequently the intro- duction of a seton. These spongy bones are never subject to necrosis, and are never replaced by bony substance, but by approximation and by the formation of soft cartilaginous parts. IX.—OF DIVISION OF THE ACHILLES’ TENDON. Petit; in Histoire de l’Academ. des Sciences, 1772, p. 51; 1728, pp. 8 and 231. Ravaton, Pratique modeme de Chirurgie, Paris, 1776, vol. iv. p. 379. Monro, A., The Cure of a fractured Tendo Achillis; in Essays and Observations Physical and Literary, vol. i. p. 450. Edinburgh, 1754. 8vo. Desault, (Euvres Chirurgicales. Wardenburg, Von den verschiedenen Verbandarten zur Wiedervereignigung der retreunten Achillessohne, und den Mittelnsie zu verbollkommnen. Gotting., 1793. Svo. ab Ammon, F., Physiologia Tenotomiae experimenta illustr. Dresd. 1837. fol. Hunter, John, Lectures; Palmer’s Edition, vol i. 564. The division of the Achilles’ tendon is either the consequence of a l tearing, in which the skin is not injured, or of a wound. In the former I iase the division of the tendon is always complete, in the latter it may be q complete or partial. fhe tearing of this tendon is most commonly the result of a false step, )r of a spring by which the point of the foot suddenly receives the whole i weight of the body. At the moment of the tear the patient hears a snap, s is if a nut were cracked, has the sensation as if he had stepped into a hole,