LOCAL TREATMENT. 83 known, bleeding with freedom is certainly necessary. ****** Every part of the body under inflammation will not bear bleeding alike. I believe that the consti- tution bears bleeding best when the inflammation is in parts not vital, and those near the source of the circulation: whatever disturbs some of the vital parts, depresses, but not equally iu all; and in them it becomes more necessary to be particular, for, in acci- dents of the brain, bleeding freely, even so as to produce sickness and fainting, is neces- sary. It is probable that the sickness attending such accidents, is designed to lessen the influx to the head, and occasion the vessels of the braiu to contract.” (pp. 335, 7.) “ With regard to this evacuation,” (blood-letting,) he observes further, “ it is worthy of particular consideration, whether or not in all cases, where it can be put in practice, bleeding in or near the part will answer better than taking the blood from the general habit; for certainly less may be removed in this way, so as to have equal effect upon the part inflamed, (and probably upon every disease that is relieved by bleeding,) and yet affect the constitution less; for, although, iu many cases, the general habit may be relieved by bleeding, yet the part affected, where it can act, will in all cases require this evacuation most, and local bleeding w ill keep nearer these proportions, whereas taking blood from the general system is just the reverse. * * * I have observed that there is something similar to sympathetic affection in bleeding. I conceive that all the sympathetic powers, the universal, continued and contiguous, may be brought into action from the local influence of bleeding. Thus, bleeding in the part inflamed, I can con- ceive, does more than simply emptying the vessels mechanically, for that would soon be restored from the general circulation; but it acts by continued sympathy, viz., the vessels of the part being opened, they contract for their own defence, and this is carried further among the vessels of the part; so that bleeding from the part acts in two ways, Iviz., mechanically by relieving the vessels of some blood, so as to allow them to con- tract in proportion as the load is taken off, and also to excite them to contraction in order to prevent the effusion of blood. I suppose, likewise, that contiguous sympathy comes into action; for this would appear from practice and observation to be a principle in bleeding: therefore, in inflammation of contiguous parts it is proper to bleed from the skin opposite to them.” (pp. 338, 9.) “ Where the first indication for bleeding takes place, viz., where there is violent inflammation, with strength of constitution, bleeding freely will be of singular ser- vice. * * * As it seldom happens that bleeding once will be sufficient in a considerable inflammation, the first or preceding blood taken becomes a symptom of the disease. * * * On the other hand, there may be indications for bleeding sparingly ; first, when there is too much action w'ith weakened powers; secondly, when there is a disposition to form but little blood ; thirdly, when the part affected is far from the source of the circulation. From the above three dispositions that require bleeding sparingly or with caution, I may observe, that it will most probably be proper in all such cases to bleed from, or as near, the part affected as possible, in order to have the greatest effect with the loss of the least quantity of blood, more so than when the constitution is strong, because the constitution in such cases should feel the loss of blood as little as possible. * * * But in many cases the blood cannot be taken away from the part itself, but only from some •, neighbouring part, so as to affect the part inflamed.” (pp. 339, 40.) “ Bleeding should in all cases be performed with great caution, more particularly at first; and no more taken than appears to be really necessary; it should only be done to ease the constitution, or the part, and rather lower it where the constitution can hear it; but, if the constitution is already below or brought below a certain point, or gives the signs of it from the situation of the disease, then an irritable habit takes place, which is an increased disposition to act without the power to act with. This of itself becomes a cause of the continuance of the original disposition, and therefore will admit 1 neither of resolution nor suppuration, but continue in a state of inflammation, which is a much worse disease than the former.” (p. 344.) 44. Different as is the General treatment of Inflammation, no less so is R the Local. The local means are, abstraction of blood, cold, moist, or dry *' warmth, salves and plasters, astringent, anodyne and derivative means. I [“ Wherever,” says John Hunter, “ there has been a violence committed, or some B violent action is going on, there is a greater influx of blood to that part. Lessening I therefore that influx becomes one mode of r<Jief; for, as the vessels dilate, they should ■ not be encouraged in that action. Although the increased influx is to be considered ■ mieflv as an effect, yet it is to be considered as a secondary cause; and, from our igno- $ ranee of the immediate cause, it is probably only through such secondary causes that G 2