TREATMENT WITH MERCURY. 655 chancre has been doing well, and probably nearly cured, that new ones have broken out upon the prepuce, near to the first, and have put on all the appearance of a chancre; but such I have always treated as not venereal. They may be similar to some conse- quences of chancre which will be taken notice of hereafter.” (p. 259.) “ Chancres,” Abernethy observes, “ do sometimes heal spontaneously, generally, however, though not constantly, leaving a thickening or induration of the part affected. They may also be induced to heal by topical means, without mercury, with similar events. Some enlargements of glands in the groin will also, in like manner, subside. It may be fairly supposed that if some chancres heal spontaneously, constitutional diseases, arising from the same cause, may, in like manner, sometimes get well without mercury. The question can only be solved by experience. Delay will, I am sure, frequently enable a Surgeon to decide that the disease is not syphilis; but there are cases in which no amendment takes place, and the Surgeon is, as it were, forced, from the progress of the disease, to employ mercury, though doubtful of its nature.” (pp. 48, 9.) “ It often happens,” says John Hunter, “ that after chancres are healed and all the virus is gone, the cicatrices ulcerate again and break out in the form of chancres. Although this is most common in the seat of the former chancres, yet it is not always confined to them, for sores often break out in other parts of the prepuce ; but still they appear to be a consequence of a venereal complaint having been there, as they seldom attack those who never had gonorrhoea or chancres. They often have so much the ap- pearance of chancres that I am persuaded many are treated as venereal that are really not such ; they differ from a chancre in general by not spreading so fast nor so far: they are not so painful nor so milch inflamed, and have not those hard bases that the ] venereal sores have nor do they produce buboes ; yet a malignant kind of them, when they attack a bad constitution, may be taken for a mild kind of chancre, or a chancre in a good constitution. I have seen several that have puzzled me extremely. Some ■ stress is to be laid upon the account that the patient gives of himself; but when there is any doubt, a little time will clear it up. I have seen the same appearances after a , gonorrhoea, but that more rarely happens. It would appear that the venereal poison could leave a disposition for ulceration of a different kind from what is peculiar to it- : self. I knew one case where they broke out regularly every two months, exactly to a day.” (p. 265.)] 828. The opinions as to the treatment of syphilis are very much divided and may be arranged in two classes :— 1. Tlte treatment with mercury. 2. The treatment ivithoict mercury. 1.—OF THE TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS WITH MERCURY. 829. In the cure of the primary syphilitic ulcer the most especial in- dication is to prevent the general venereal disease; it is therefore advisable to connect a general treatment to that effect with a suitable local treatment. 830. The local treatment has for its object the destruction of the syphi- litic poison in the ulcer, the cleansing of its surface, and by a continued use ; of proper remedies to effect a cure. This is aimed at by touching the ulcers with nitrate of silver or caustic potash, most effectually with a saturated solution of mercury in nitric acid, or with a strong solution of sublimate. The ulcer should be frequently washed during the day with a weak solution of sublimate, or with phagedenic water and charpie moistened in either of these fluids applied over the ulcer ; or it should be bound up with red or white precipitate, with citron ointment, and so on, and carefully kept clean. This treatment must always be guided by the degree of inflammation; in severe inflammation and great pain soothing remedies must be applied. The destruction of the ulcer with nitrate of silver which has of late found in Ri- cord a zealous advocate, is only of use when the disease is still merely local, a period of time which is extremely short and difficult to determine. 831. At the same time should be given internally the milder prepara- tions of mercury, the mercurius soluhilis of Hahnemann, or calomel, at a quarter or half a grain, and in increasing doses according to circum-