MORTIFICATION. 59 persons living anxiously and in want of food ; more frequently in men than in women ; in persons who have prematurely exhausted themselves by excessive debauchery ; in those subject to the gout, in whom, perhaps, the ossification of the arteries, so often observed in this kind of mortifica- tion, seems to be connected : this disease, however, may occur in every ao-e if the above conditions are present. This kind of mortification may arise suddenly, and without any previous inflammatory symptoms, by metastasis during the course of malignant fever (1). In children born with bine, cold atrophied extremities, in whom the circulation does not proceed properly it is often noticed. The closing up of the blood vessels is, according to Balling (a), constantly observed (2). Organic changes in the heart and aorta are also invariably present (3). (1) I have seen one case in a man thirty-five years old. in -whom during the progress of abdominal typhus, the right foot up to the middle of the leg, became suddenly pale, icy cold, senseless and motionless, shrivelled, subsequently quite black, and the dry gan- ■ grene reached to the upper third of the leg, where it stopped. (2) The closing up of the arteries is always present in dry gangrene, as was observed in j former times ; it may be also in certain cases the special cause of the mortification, and -j consequence of the inflammation of the arteries, (arteritis,) or of the capillary vessels, first described by Dupuytren (b). It cannot, however, be considered as the general and i constant cause; for, in many cases, there is not a single previous appearance indicating ! inflammation of the arteries, and their closure is caused by the mortification, and con- sequent to it. Compare also IIecker (c). (3) I have observed a case of dry gangrene in a man about forty years old, which ex- i tended up to the middle of the leg, where it stopped, and the part separated. There had existed for a long time undoubted symptoms of organic disease of the heart. [Brodie (d) mentions a case of mortification of the leg up to the middle of the thigh, which commenced with a sense of pricking numbness and weight, and on the following day the limb had mortified; “ no vesications formed on the foot; it was not swollen, and no part became putrid except just a little in the middle of the thigh, where was' a great mass of soft parts. The limb dried, the skin assuming a brownish colour, . being at the same time hard and semi-transparent, so that the white tendons could be ’ seen shining through it. It was in fact what has been called a case of dry gangrene.” The patient’s powers failed, and he died at the end of six weeks. Upon examination, Brodie “found marks of inflammation everywhere around the principal artery and vein of the limb. From the bifurcation of the large trunk down to the middle of the thigh, the artery was obliterated, being completely filled with coagulated lymph, evidently i effused from inflammation ; closely adhering to the inner surface, but with some admixture of red coagulum. The vein was filled with lymph and obliterated in the n same manner as the artery. There had been inflammation of the sheath of the vessels, in consequence of which the artery and the vein adhered closely to each other and to the surrounding parts. I suppose that the nature of the case is plain enough : there had been inflammation of the artery and the vein, and the obliteration of the artery was to ; so great an extent as to cut off the supply of blood, not only through the trunk, but through the anastomosing branches.” (p. 635.) Brodie also points out the cause of the distinction between dry and moist gangrene:—“ If mortification be the result of inflammation or of venous obstruction, there is always an effusion of serum before the parts completely dry, in the form of vesication of the skin and oedema of the cellular membrane ; and then, when the parts die, being infiltrated with serum, they readily be- come putrid. But here (in inflammation of the arteries) the blood is prevented from entering the limb, so that there can be neither vesication nor effusion of serum into the [• ^flnlar membrane, and the dead parts dry readily from the absence of moisture.” * * * Gangrene from arterial inflammation is comparatively a rare disease, and may occur at any period of life ; whereas the gangrene of old age arises, as repeated dissections have enabled me to determine, entirely from other causes.” (p. 636.) From this latter obser- vation it will be perceived that Brodie does not agree either with Cruvelhier (e), who 00 Ueber die CifMnY/Jvnn. tpnilis in Trmrnnl von 1*1 Bor flio hrornl iim 7orctAmnrr flureli llohinflprillKT