PROGNOSIS AND 294 Bennett thus describes the process of granulation and cicatrization :— “ When, however, the lips of the wound remain apart, or there has been loss of sub- stance, the exudation is more copious externally than internally. The portion which is infiltrated into the tissue surrounding the sore, constituting the inflamed, red, and indu- rated margin, is transformed into exudation cells, which, on breaking up, are absorbed. Some of these occasionally find their way to the surface, and become mixed with pus- corpuscles, a circumstance which probably, with some, has supported the supposition that these structures are different stages of one growth. On the other hand, the exuda- tion which is poured out externally on the surface of the sore is very abundant, and is transformed partly into the pus-cells, and partly into primary cells, which are, by the process of development, converted into fibres, and ultimately constitute the cicatrix. The portions of exudation which are undergoing this process are called granulations. As these become more numerous, the amount of pus diminishes, and a greater tendency is manifested in the exudation to pass into permanent tissue. At length pus ceases to be produced; the whole exudation passes into fibres; a new surface is formed, the which contracting, after a time constitutes a cicatrix. In this case a greater amount of fluid exudation is poured out on the surface of the sore than into the neighbouring tissues, because externally the capillaries are more attenuated, and nothing obstructs the exuda- tion. As new tissue is formed, new vessels are also produced, which, in their turn, assist in pouring out blood plasma on the surface. Internally the vessels are more uniformly supported by dense tissue, and the amount exuded in that direction is not so great. A section of a granulating sore at this time presents the following appearances :—Among the tissues constituting the edge of the ulcer there is considerable granular exudation, with exudation cells and masses. The base is entirely made up uniformly of filamentous tissue; above, of cells varying in shape and passing into fibres, and most superficially of purulent matter.” (pp. 61, 2.) Of “ Healing by the second intention or granulation,” Wharton Jones observes:—• “ This is a slower process than adhesion. The inflammatory congestion persisting, matter continues to be exuded. One part of it is converted into cellular tissue and capillaries— granulations are composed of these new tissues in process of development; another part is converted into pus, which, as above said, serves as a sort of epithelium to the granula- tions. As the healing approaches completion, the quantity of exuded matter converted into pus becomes less and less, in comparison with that expended in the formation of tissues.' At last, no more pus being formed, the exuded matter is developed into epithe- lium or epidermis, and cicatrization is in this case also completed. As this takes place, the granulations contract and become less vascular, by the shrinking and disappearance of many of the vessels which existed in them, as is so distinctly observable in the case of the cornea, in regard to all the vessels.” (p. 280.)] 273. The following points are to be noticed in the prognosis of wounds:— 1. The condition of the wound. The cleaner the division of the part, the more easily and quickly does it heal; the more the parts are bruised, the more severe is the injury, and the more tedious the cure. Thrust wounds are generally not more dangerous than cut wounds; they are, however, more frequently connected with bruising and partial division of the separate structures ; the bleeding is more difficult to stanch, and, if quick union do not take place, the fistulous form of the wound easily pro- duces burrowing and stagnation of pus. If foreign bodies be in the wound, the prognosis depends on the possibility of their removal, or, if there be deleterious substances in it, upon preventing their operation upon the whole organism. 2. The age and constitution of the wounded person. In young healthy subjects, wounds heal better than in old cachetic persons affected with syphilis, scrofula, scurvy, and the like, in whom wounds rarely heal by quick union, but, on the contrary, are converted into sores, which assume the character of the general disease. 3. The importance of the injured parts. A wound is more dangerous, as the parts affected by it are more important, and the more severe the in- jury is in itself. In this respect, wounds are divided into absolutely mortal