OF THE COLLAU-BONE. 779 upon it. But I doubt the correctness of this, as the skin wound was not more than two inches long and beneath it my little finger would just enter, and no room to spare. He complains of a little pain opposite the middle of the second piece of the breast-bone; but he has not any other pain in his chest, and no fracture can be discovered. He seems to breathe easily, although he complains of difficulty of breathing, accompanied with great desire to cough, and a sensation of pressure on the windpipe, which is much increased on raising the skin of the neck when he throws his head back. The shoulder having been brought back with straps attached to a back-board, the bone readily resumed its place. The elbow was brought forward and bound to the side. The wound was dressed with sticking plaster, and he was put to bed with the shoulders much raised. He went on without the least unfavourable symptom ; in three weeks left his bed, and three weeks after went out of the house. The sternal end of the collar-bone still fell a little backwards, and ■was a little more movable than natural. He was warned not to use his arm violently. In September, 1839, Velpeau (a) had under his care a case of simple dislocation of the sternal end of the collar-bone inwards and backwards. The man had been violently squeezed between the wall and a cart, “ in such a manner as to thrust the left shoulder forcibly inwards, and break up the ligaments which connected the clavicle of the same side to the first bone of the sternum; in this way the sternal end of the left clavicle lay upon the superior edge of the sternum, behind the sternal attachment of the sterno- mastoid muscle. The articulating surface of the bone lay close to the junction of the sternum with the clavicle of the opposite side. Velpeau considered that in the first instance the force producing the dislocation had operated, so as to displace the sternal extremity of the clavicle upwards and backwards, inasmuch as the bone lay behind the sternal portion of the steruo-mastoid muscle, and that it was after this had been effected, that the displacement inwards and across the upper part of the sternum occurred. He considered this was the first instance of this kind of displacement of the sternal extremity of the clavicle which had been observed ; in 'which opinion, however, he was wrong, as the case just mentioned proves.—J. F. S.] 1024. The reduction of the dislocated sternal end of the collar-bone is easy ; with one hand the elbow is fixed, and with the other placed on the upper part of the humerus, the shoulder is drawn outwards and backwards, as in treating fracture of the collar-bone (par. 639.) In dislocation forwards, the shoulder should be pressed forwards, in that backwards, backwards, and in the upward dislocation upwards, so as to prevent the slipping out again of the end of the bone; and the arm is to be kept in proper position with the apparatus already mentioned for fractured collar- bone. According as this apparatus is more or less relaxed, there com- monly remains greater or less deformity at the sternal end of the bone, which, however, has no effect upon the motions of the arm. Melter’s apparatus, in dislocation of the collar-bone forwards, in which a compress similar to a truss, and pressing on the projecting end of the bone, is connected with Desault’s apparatus (b). [It will not be out of place to mention here, the operation performed by Davie, of Bungay, on the case of backwardly dislocated sternal end of the collar-bone referred to by Astley Cooper, in which the bone pressed so upon the (esophagus as to occasion extreme difficulty in swallowing. “ An incision was made of from two to three inches in extent on the sternal extremity of the clavicle, in a line with the axis of that bone; and its surrounding ligamentous connexions, as far as he could reach them, were divided with the saw of Scultetus (often called Hey’s) ; he then sawed through the end of the bone, one inch from its articular surface from the sternum, and fearful of doing unne- cessary injury with the saw, he introduced a piece of well-beaten sole-leather under the bone whilst he divided it. When the sawing was completed he tried to detach the bone, but it still remained connected by its interclavicular ligament, and he was obliged to tear through that ligament by using the handle of the knife as an elevator, and af ter some time succeeded in removing the portion of bone which he had separated.” 1 he case did well (c).] («) Lancet, 1839-40. vol. i. p. 422. p. 53.—Froriep's cliirurgische Kupertafeln, pi. (6) Archives generates <le Mcdecine, Jan. 1829, ccxxvii. (c) A. Cooper, above cited, p. 402.