41 PUS-GLOBULES. numerous as the serum is more rich in salts. They are frequently found among fat- globules of different diameters. 6 [Gueterbock appears to be the first who discovered the different size of the globules in pus; he says:—“ All writers who have hitherto examined pus, Kaltenbrunner (b) alone excepted, (who mentions that he has seen corpuscles and granules swimming in the pus of frogs, although in pure human pus, carefully preserved from the air, he states that he has sometimes seen granules of equal size, (p. 1G,)) speak of the globules swim- ming in pus as of only one kind. I have, however, always seen globules of vastly different size in pus, of which only the largest have been noticed by writers, even by Gruithuisen and E. H. Weber. Although these exist in the greatest number in pus, yet it is not to be doubted that smaller ones swim among them. The proportions of the globules and liquor vary in every kind of pus, so that the greater be the number of globules the thicker and better is the pus, and vice versa.” (p. 8.) The size and form of the globules and granules given by Chei.ius are those stated by Gueterbock, w ho, subsequently comparing the globules in pus with the corpuscles of other animal liquors, says:—“ They are most like the globules I have found in mucus, but more irregular, unequal, and of much less number, most of which are of the same size, and some even larger than the pus-globules, as I have frequently by repeated observations ascertained, notwithstanding E. H. Weber contends they are only half as large. Like the pus- i globule, they also contain a nucleus, consisting of granules. I have sometimes seen j globules of the same form and nature swimming in the saliva; but at other times I have * measured them twice and thrice as large. Mixed with water, they quickly swell and f are decomposed. Finally, the pus-globules differ from the blood-corpuscles, not only in .size, but also in chemical properties, since the envelope of the former is dissolved by both water and acetic acid, whilst that of the latter is dissolved only by the acetic acid.” ;i(p. n.) The following is the account which Gueterbock gives of the chemical nature of the \ pus-globules, which he obtained from a wound in a horse:—“ The globules having been most carefully washed, and had concentrated acetic acid poured over them, were ^strained. In straining the envelopes of the globules were dissolved. On adding a i solution of the ferro-hydro-cyanite of potash, a sediment was produced : the one part of n it neutralized by the carbonate of potash was first rendered turbid and then precipitated, i, whence I conclude that the envelope is to be included among the number of those sub- stances which, named by Berzelius albuminous, are precipitated by the ferro-hydro- u cyanite of potash. But the granules forming the nuclei of the globules are not dissolved b oy acids. I cannot yet certainly state whether, like the corpuscles of the blood, they are 1 dissolved by the liquor of caustic potash, though it seems to me very probable that they t are; for the liquor of caustic potash (or even the concentrated carbonate of potash) * being added, the pus-globules become more transparent, and are less perspicuous, some !■ after a certain time vanish, rudiments of the envelopes and granules being here and there ■left.” (p. 10.) The pus-globules described by Mayo (a) as “ occasionally seen in the blood of 4 i healthy persons,” the only person in whose blood he had not found them being an ir lged woman of seventy-seven years, though he admits that “ nevertheless they differ to W"3 certain extent from the globules which are seen in pus from an ulcerated sore,” pGulliver (b) denies being pus-globules at all, and says they are probably the large white globules of the blood spoken of by Magendie and Dr. Davy. The following is Gerber’s account of the formation of pus, and of the reproductive in organization in suppurating wounds:—“A continual oozing of liquor sanguinis takes place on the surface of the wound; the coagulating fibrin forms exudation-corpuscles, which i are partially disposed in layers on the wounded surface to form the exudation-membrane, ' and the layers nearest the living surface are converted into cells, which become further i and differently organized according to the nature of the tissues to be reproduced. The il cytoblasts or exudation-corpuscles most distant from the wounded surface become pus- * corpuscles, which, with serum, form true pus, which on the one side covers the seat of :i organization, separates the so-called granulating surface from external influence, and on cl the other forms that soft, mild, peculiar medium in which reproduction proceeds from it the wounded surfaces towards the middle of the wound, and by which foreign substances i ire washed out of the wound. ■ “Pus. The exudation-corpuscles lying beyond the living influence of the wounded sur- [< ace, but exposed to external agency, cannot retain their life for any length of time, and, 4 r,i* Observationesqutedam microscopies; in partibus animaliura pellucidis instituta;de inllammatione. ' Assert, inaug. Berol., 1835. (6) Medical Gazette, 1839,40, p. 128. (c) lb. p 201.