536 DISLOCATIONS AND column an unusual projection was observed, but the anterior longitudinal ligamentous expansion was entire. The body of the fourth was completely detached from that of the fifth vertebra, the connecting fibro-cartilage being torn through, and the body of the former projecting by its whole depth in front of the latter.” (p. 394-97.) I have taken the opportunity of examining this preparation, and as it at present appears in its dry state, the right articular process of the fourth vertebra rests in the concavity between the transverse process and the body of the fifth; but the left process, although displaced, is not thrown completely off the corresponding articular process of the fifth vertebra. Of the partial dislocation, in which only one articular process is thrown before the corresponding one of the vertebra below, and the body of its own vertebra on that side projected forward, is the instance in St. Thomas’s Museum already alluded to of the right lower articular process of the axis, but of which unfortunately there is not any history. Schuh’s case (a) appears to me one of this kind, and the following is his account of thus very interesting Case.—F. H., twenty-four years of age, whilst engaged in his occupation of needle- making, being suddenly called by a fellow-workman for the purpose of frightening him, turned sharply round, and at the very moment felt a crack in his neck and could no longer move his head. On the following day he came to the hospital, with his countenance turgid, his head twisted to the right side and brought nearer to the shoulder; upon the left side the neck was a little arched, and on the right rather hollowed. He had pain, increased by pressure, on the left side, from the third to the fifth vertebra; and every attempt to give the head and neck another direction was vain and painful. The direction of the upper spinous processes could not be closely followed with the fingers, but the neck muscles were not by any means morbidly stretched. The patient complained of weakness in the right upper extremity; could only lift it with exer- tion, and had much less power of closing these fingers than those of the left hand. At- tempts were immediately made at replacement by lifting the head directly upwards by the chin and hind-head, the shoulders being fixed whilst the patient sat on the ground, but in vain. This was repeated in the evening without result, and both times without pain. Leeches and cold applications were used. Two days after the patient complained of the addition of weakness in the right arm, with the sensation of its being asleep. To gain more power, the mode of reduction was varied. The patient was laid on his back in bed. with the shoulders fixed by two folded cloths, and extension made by a towel which I carried under the jaw, whilst the pulling was kept up by an assistant who held the back of the head with both hands. After gradual strong pulling the patient felt, and afterwards the assistant also, a crack or snap, and after the extension had been continued the head and neck were restored to their proper position, and could be moved in every direction, although with pain on the left side of the neck. * * * In a few days after the patient was quite well. (p. 547-49.) It is of course impossible to say that in this case there was no fracture of any part of the transverse or articular pro- cesses of the vertebra, as sometimes happens. These are all the simple dislocations I know of, and I fully agree with the reason assigned by Lawrence for their occurrence specially in the neck. “ The greater mobi- lity of the individual bones,” says he, “ the comparative smallness of their bodies, and the obliquity of their articular processes, point out the cervical vertebra as most likely to be luxated; at the same time the form of the neck, and its connexion with the head, are favourable to the application of such violence as may induce luxation.” (pp. 389-90.) I have introduced the consideration of dislocated vertebra here, because it is so com- monly accompanied with fracture, and because the effects upon the spinal marrow are so similar in both cases, that the two subjects cannot be conveniently treated of apart. But it would have been much better had Chelxus placed the whole subject immediately after Injuries of the Head, with which it is closely connected. The time which persons live after fracture and displacement of the vertebra varies considerably according to the situation of the injury, but even when nearly the same part is injured, one patient will live much longer than another, doubtless on account of the less or greater injury of the spinal cord. In general the higher be the injury, the more quickly is the patient cut off. Astley Cooper says, that “ in fracture with dis- placement above the fourth cervical vertebra the person generally dies on the instant, because the diaphragm is paralysed.” This, however, is not correct, for the spinal cord is not always sufficiently compressed to cut off the nervous influence from that muscle. I have seen several cases live two or three days, or more; and Phillips’s case lived above forty-seven weeks. So far as I have had opportunity, I should say, that in fracture of the cervical vertebra, the patient dies earlier or later within a week; in that of the («) Slightly mentioned in the preceding page.