730 RECTAL FISTULA. and gorget being felt to touch distinctly, are to be held with either hand, and both moved together. The probe is given to an assistant, who at the same time separates the buttocks, and the gorget being pressed against it, a straight bistoury is to be introduced along its groove, till it reaches the gorget, and in drawing out the bistoury all the parts between the probe and the gorget are divided, which is shown by the probe and gorget being drawn out through the wound without disturbing their contact after the incision is completed. If the canal extend higher than the internal fistu- lous opening, a pair of blunt scissors should, according to the advice of some, be introduced into the wound, upon the forefinger, and the remaining partition divided. This, however, is according to foreign and home ex- perience not indispensable {par. 928.) If the internarfistulous opening be very deep, a fine flexible, silver, hollow sound may be introduced by the fistula into the rectum, its end brought down out of the gut with the forefinger, and the parts lying upon it divided with a bistoury pushed along the groove. Further observations on the seat of the internal opening in rectal fistula must decide, whether this be not always connected as above said, {par. 928,) and whether the division of the wall of the fistula from the inner opening be sufficient for the cure although the fistulous canal extend higher. [My common practice in operating on rectal fistula, has been for years, to use a soft silver director which will bend. Having introduced the forefinger of one hand into the rectum, I pass the director through the fistulous passage, and if, as is generally the case, there be a hole in the gut, into the rectum ; but if there be not an opening, or if it cannot be readily found, I bore the end of the director against the wall of the gut, upon the finger introduced, and thus speedily penetrate into the cavity of the rectum. Having thrust the end of the director well through, I bend it round with the top of my finger, till I have brought it through the anus externally, and then thrust it a little further, till its point rests upon the opposite buttock. Having both ends of the director, and both apertures of the fistula well in sight, I divide the sphincter and its tegument, by running a pointed curved bistoury along the groove of the director. I think this mode of pro- ceeding is best, because it shows to what extent the parts are divided; and also that thereby the upper part of the wall of the fistula tears, and is therefore less likely to unite by adhesion, then when clean cut, as quick union is not desirable. Brodie also recommends the practice of bringing the end of the director through the anus, and dividing upon it. If I do not bring the probe out, I prefer the cld practice of cutting on the finger, which must be first introduced into the gut, then the fistula should be examined with a probe, and its direction and extent being ascertained, the probe is withdrawn, and a button-ended curved bistoury passed in its room, through the opening in the gut, if there be one, but if not, the bowel is to be rubbed between it and the finger till it make one; the end of the finger is then carried over the end of the knife, which being thus defended, the hand that holds the handle of the knife grasps the other, and the finger and knife are together drawn down, cutting through the sphincter as they are brought out. There are, however, two inconveniences as regards this operation, the Surgeon may cut his finger severely, or break the knife in the fistula, which I have seen when the patient has been unsteady.—J. F. S.] 932. In an internal blind fistula, the director should be carried to its bottom, pressed against the gorget, introduced into the rectum, and the partition divided with the straight bistoury, as in the former case. 933. After the completion of the operation and after the wound has been properly cleaned, the forefinger of the left hand should be introduced into the rectum, to the upper end of the wound, and then by means of a probe or pair of forceps well oiled, a tent of lint should be passed up and put lengthways between the edges of the wound, so as to prevent them touching; a wad of charpie is then to be put on, to be fixed with sticking plaster, then a compress, and the whole held together with a T