548 FRACTURES OF bone, the inner portion sticks out and crosses the outer part. The con- trary happens if the fracture be far from the breast-bone, which depends on the finger-like attachment of the m. triangularis sterni. The diagnosis is easy, on account of the separation of the ends of the fracture. The setting is not difficult, and succeeds best if at the moment of inspiration an attempt be made to press the ends of the fracture into their place. A broad breast-band (according to Malgaigne, an English truss) should be put on sufficiently tight, which cannot, however, always completely prevent the displacement of the ends of the fracture, though it fixes them in place; in consequence the pain, which depends on the movements of the fractured ends, is diminished ; and in this way the union is favoured, which is always perfected by a bony ring more or less surrounding the ends of the fracture. X—OF FRACTURES OF THE SHOULDER-BLADE. (Fractura Scapulce, Lat.; Bruch des Schulterblattes, Germ.; Fracture de V Omoplatc, Fr.) 630. The Fractures of the Shoulder-blade are those of the acromion, of the neck, of the coracoid process, of the body, and of the lower angle. These are always consequent on very severe violence to which the bone is subjected ; the accompanying accidental bruising therewith connected is generally more dangerous than the fracture itself. [Chelius overrates the violence necessary for the production of these fractures, which, excepting that of the lower angle, is rarely produced by a direct blow, and usually by a fall on the elbow, which drives the head of the arm-bone upwards. Nor have 1 ever seen any very serious bruising of the soft parts attending these accidents.—J. F. S.] 631. The acromion is most frequently broken, and generally at its base and horizontally. The outer portion is dragged down by the weight of the arm,and the shoulder inclined downwards and somewhat inwards: a depression is felt at the seat of fracture, which subsides if the arm be somewhat separated from the trunk, and raised parallel to its long axis; and when in this position the arm is moved, there is distinct crepitation (1). At the moment of the accident the patient feels a dropping down of the arm, and has but little power to raise it. For the purpose of bringing the broken ends into proper place, and there retaining them, a conical pad should be placed between the arm and the trunk, with its thick base below the elbow, the arm pressed upwards and confined in that position with a bandage, which should be carried in shape of a figure of QG around both shoulders and the elbow of the injured side. The fore-arm is to be supported in a sling. Should this apparatus not serve the purpose, as for example, in women with large bosoms, the arm must be supported on a pillow with a strap, or the patient should be kept in bed, and the arm put at a right angle with the trunk. [(1) To these signs of a broken acromion may be added the jutting of the fractured end of the spine of the bone, and the flattened form which the shoulder assumes instead of its natural rounded shape, by which the appearance of dislocation into the arm-pit is produced, and with which it is often confounded, but is easily distinguished from, by raising the elbow, when the roundness of the shoulder is restored and the appearance of dislocation ceases.—J. F. S.] 632. Fracture of the neck of the Shoulder-blade is rare, and only con- sequent on very great violence; it is therefore always accompanied with considerable bruising. The lower end of the fracture is so much drawn down that the shoulder has an appearance similar to that of dislocation,