FRACTURES OF THE SKULL. 389 1 L •I IJ n I Upon this subject Thomson observes:—“ In some of the wounds in which the head had been struck obliquely by the sabre, portions of the cranium had been removed without the brain appearing to have sustained much injury. In one case of this kind, where a considerable portion of the upper part of the occipital bone along with the dura mater had been removed, a tendency to protrusion of the brain took place during an attack of inflammation ; a slight degree of stupor, with loss of memory occurred : but on the inflammatory state having been subdued, the brain sunk to its former level, the stupor went off, and the memory returned. It seems probable that when the brain pro- trudes in cases of this kind, a disposition to the formation of fungus may be given ; but in the instances which I have seen this protrusion occur, it has appeared to me to pro- ceed from causes very different from those by which fungus is usually produced. We had frequent opportunities of seeing the upper and the lateral parts of the cerebrum exposed by sabre wounds; but in no case, except that which I have mentioned, did any tendency to protrusion of the brain present itself to our notice. In a remarkable sabre cut in the nape of the neck of a Frenchman in the Corderie, more than an inch in breadth of the inferior part of the left lobe of the cerebellum had been exposed, and was seen pulsating for a period of eight weeks, without any tendency to protrusion having taken place. This exposure was unaccompanied by any particular constitutional affection; but, like several others who had received deep cuts on the back part of the neck, this man complained of great feebleness in the lower extremities.” (pp. 50, 1.)] I r ■ v ->j 3*5 390. Fractures of the Skull (Fractures Cranii) vary, according' as the separation of the bones is slight or the edges are wider apart; in the former case they are called Clefts or Fissures (Fissures.) These may pene- trate either only through the external table, or also through the inner; or the inner table alone may have sprung off. Their direction is various ; straight, jagged, or sometimes both at once, and so on. They occur either at the place where the external violence has acted, or far from it, and are then called Counter-Clefts (Contra-Fissures) and Counter-Fractures ( Contra-Fractures.) The more brittle and fragile are the bones of the skull, the more readily do fractures occur, and because the thickness of the bones is unequal at different parts, counter-fractures are produced. Fracture of the inner table happens only at those parts where the two tables are sepa- rated by diploe, and where the external is thicker than the internal. Fractures of the skull occur the more easily as the bones are thinner and more compact, and have less diploe ; they are, therefore, most common in old, and less frequent in young persons. [It may be observed, that no symptoms are here mentioned as indicating the existence of fissure or fracture of the skull, nor indeed are any produced from such injuries. Upon this point Pott well observes:—“ The symptoms just mentioned (vomiting, giddiness, loss of sense, speech, and voluntary motion, bleeding at the ears, nose, mouth, &c.) do very frequently accompany a broken skull; but they are not produced by the breach made in the bone, nor do they indicate such breach to have been made. They proceed from an affection of the brain, or from injury done to some of the parts within the cranium, independent of any ill which the bones composing it may have sustained. They are occasioned by violence offered to the contents of the head in general; are quite inde- pendent of the mere breach made in the bone ; and either do or do not accompany frac- ture, as such fracture may happen to he or not to be complicated with such other ills. They are frequently produced by extravasations of blood or serum, upon or between the membranes of the brain, or by shocks or concussions of its substance, in cases where the skull is perfectly intire and unhurt. On the other hand, the bones of the skull are i sometimes cracked, broken, nay, even depressed, and the patient suffers none of these symptoms. In short, as the breach made in the bone is not, nor can be, the cause of such complaints, they ought not to be attributed to it, and that for reasons which are by no means merely speculative.” (pp. 132, 33.)] 391. If in fracture of the skull, its coverings be not injured, and the edges of the fracture be not separated, the fracture cannot be discovered by the touch; it frequently can only, with more or less probability, be presumed, according to the violence with which the force has operated.