TRANSLATOR’S PREFACE. X Several years since, when I was preparing to deliver Lectures on Surgery at St. Thomas’s Hospital, (soon after commencing which, severe illness forced me to resign my appointment,) I was thankful for the great assistance I derived from becoming acquainted with Chelius’s excellent Handbuch der Chirurgie ; and as I grew more familiar with the work, it appeared to me that a translation of it would present to my countrymen a fair and satisfactory view of the important services which our German brethren have rendered to Surgery. Still, however, I felt it would he necessary to add notes of my own, for the purpose of explaining and discussing occasional, and sometimes important, differences in the practice of the German and English Schools. In doing this I trust I have fairly stated the arguments on both sides, and shown on what grounds I have decided between them. I shall be charged, I fear, with having buried my Author beneath a mass of notes and comments. They are indeed numerous, and they might occasionally have been made shorter, had I condensed, in my own w^ords, the opinions of the authors I have cited. To this practice, however, though not uncommon, I am utterly opposed. The meaning of a writer ought to be best set forth in his own words, and if others attempt to convey his meaning briefly, they not unfre- quently fail to declare his opinions, or they altogether misrepresent them. I have, therefore, with hut few and unimportant exceptions, quoted the statements of authors in their original words. I have also, as far as possible, endeavoured to award to the originators of new modes of practice, their just meed of credit; and if, as may occa- sionally have happened, I have passed by unnoticed any of the leading Surgical writers of the British Schools, I hope on a future opportunity to repair my seeming inattention. To Professor Ciielius, with whom I communicated previously to the commencement of my publication, my best thanks are due, for his kindness in furnishing me with the several parts of his new edition, at the earliest opportunity. I trust he will he gratified with the pains I have taken to place him in a condition to be estimated as he truly deserves to he by British Surgeons, and to make his work a stock book in English Surgical Literature.