MORTIFICATION. oo cuticle does not separate, the fetid exhalation is less, the pain is some- times very severe (Dry Gangrene; Trockner Brand, Germ.; Gangrene s'eche, Fr.;) 2nd, the mortified part increases in bulk, the cuticle rises in blisters, which burst and discharge a quantity of stinking ichorous fluid (Moist Gangrene; Feuchter Brand, Germ.; Gangrene hnmide, Fr. ;) 3rd, all the organic structures without distinction are changed into a glutinous grayish white or ulcerous mass (Hospital Gangrene; Hospital- brand, Germ.; Pourriture elhopital, Fr.) [In severe bruises, and occasionally when, after the swelling of a limb consequent on a fracture, the bandages confining splints have become tight and caused much pressure, vesications filled with bluish or bluish-black fluid occur. This often excites alarm, and is mistaken for mortification; but it is of little consequence. It is only requisite to puncture the blisters with a needle, evacuate the fluid, and apply lead wash for a few days, when all soon becomes sound. If the vesications are left unemptied, they often produce inconvenient superficial sores, which heal with the use of zinc ointment.— J. F. S.] 25. Mortification may be produced by all hurts which cause a too high degree of inflammation, obstruction of the circulation, weakness, oppression of the nervous activity, and thereby loss of life of a part; for instance, too irritating treatment of inflammation, checking of the circulation by ligature, too tight bandaging, pressure kept up by unyielding aponeuroses ; violent operation of heat and cold, malignant character of the inflamma- tion ■where in seeming mildness of the symptoms mortification often occurs, of which the cause is generally unknown, but sometimes depends on hurtful matter in the bowels; further, from a great degree of weakness, degeneration of the juices, scurvy, and so on, malignant, putrid fevers, great age, severe bruises and concussions, by which the part is filled with . stagnant juices ; ligature and ossification of the vessels, (which may with- out inflammation give rise to mortification,) certain fluids extravasated from their cavities, as urine, bile, feculent matter; bad foul air and con- i tagious influences. [Brodie (a) enumerates sudden loss of blood as sometimes causing mortification, and in proof mentions the case of a man who, whilst very tipsy, one evening, was bled to i the extent of three pints, when he became very ill, and the next morning his toes and feet up to the insteps were mortified. They sloughed off, however, and he did well, (p. 635.) Travers mentions among the causes of mortification “ such deep and extensive ■ effusions as compress and annihilate the internal circulation of the part. Thus, I have seen,” says he, “ a subfascial effusion, following a severe strain of the fore arm, pro- ducing a spreading gangrenous inflammation of the extremity to within a hand’s breadth of the axilla; and similar cases, of suppuration, between the deep-seated muscles of the thigh, 1 have known terminate suddenly in gangrenous inflammation of ■' the entire limb to the groin. Injuries of nerves, particularly, are liable to be followed by gangrenous inflammation : of this I have also seen some marked examples. Baron Farrey found reason to attribute the gangrene of the foot following the operation for popliteal aneurism to the nerve having been injured or included in the ligature.” I recollect many years ago seeing a case of mortification of the whole lower extremity, consequent on a bayonet wound of the femoral artery, in which the death of the limb seemed to result from the slow effusion of blood and gradual distension first of the fasciae, and subsequently of the skin, which occupied many months. The man was a sailor, and during a homeward voyage from the East Indies dropped a bayonet point 1 i The ship being without any surgeon, the captain bandaged the thigh tightly up, and effectually prevented external haemorrhage for five or six weeks. When e reached home, he was brought to St. Thomas’s Hospital, and, on removing the ; andage, the wound was found united. The limb was much swollen up to the pelvis; (<0 Lectures on Mortification; in London Medical Gazette, 1840-41, vol. i.