INCISED WOUNDS. 329 ration and granulation. Such wound, after being cleaned from blood, should be covered with a quantity of fine charpie, spread with mild salve, and confined with sticking plaster or a bandage. On the third or fourth day the bandage should be removed, having been first loosened with warm water, and replaced by dry charpie if suppuration have commenced. The charpie often becomes firmly connected with the bottom of the wound, and so remains, even when suppuration is going on. This is especially the case in those wounds which are of some depth; for instance, after the extirpa- tion of swellings, and so on. The bottom of the wound is, in these cases, to be overspread with a light linen compress, or German tinder, and char- pie over it (1). When granulations rise up in the wound, its healing is pro- moted by moderate compression of its edges with sticking plaster. If the suppuration be moderate, the wound may be dressed once in every twenty- four hours, but, if copious, twice in the same time. A moderate degree of inflammation must always accompany the secretion of good pus; if this be insufficient, if the wound be pale, the edges flabby and bleeding on the slightest touch, stimulants, as ung. digest, basilic., a decoction of bark or willow bark, and the like, must be applied to excite the proper degree of inflammation. The treatment proper for abscesses, warm applications, is, however, generally preferable. In too active inflammation, when the bottom of the wound is dry, and its circumference swollen, all stimulants must be removed, and the wound covered with mild salves and softening poultices. If the granulations be luxuriant, they must be touched with caustic, and a slightly compressing bandage applied, which very much fur- thers the healing. Should the secretion and absorption of the pus produce symptoms of hectic fever, the powers of the patient must be supported with strengthening remedies; bark, calamus, wine, good food, and pure air are best. [(1) This method of stuffing a wound which must heal by suppuration is quite inad- missible, for it only adds fuel to fire by the adherence of the charpie or lint, even though spread with mild salve, acting as an extraneous body. So soon as bleeding has ceased, or has been stopped, a poultice should be applied, and nothing else, as it regulates the temperature, encourages suppuration, and renders the parts soft and easy, instead of unyielding and painful.—J. F. S.] I.—OF INCISED WOUNDS. ( Vulnera scissa, Lat.; Schnitt und Hiebwv.nden, Germ.; Plates par instrumcns tranchans, Fr.) 320. Both soft and hard parts may be divided by cutting anti chopping. These wounds are most disposed to quick union, and what has been already mentioned upon the union of wounds in general applies also to them The following circumstances, however, require particular notice. 321. Longitudinal wounds of tendons are not, generally, attended with peculiar symptoms, unless the synovial membrane, which ensheaths many of them, be inflamed. Transverse wounds of tendons may be either partial or complete. In complete division, both ends retract, one by the action of the muscle; the other by the motions of the limb, produced by the superior power of the antagonist muscles. If the ends of the tendon can be brought into close contact, they unite ; but, if not, they are joined by some cellular intersubstance which gradually becomes firm ; or they unite with the neighbouring parts, in consequence of which motion is pre- vented. The mutual contact of the ends of a tendon is effected chiefly