27 SIGNS—MICROSCOPIC OBSERVATIONS. [ (5) John Hunter observes on this point:—“ From all the observations and experi- i ments I have made, I do not find that a local inflammation can increase the local heat above the natural heat of the animal.” The experiments he made were, 1. in the inflamed cavities of hydroceles, in which the thermometer stood at 98|° F., an in- crease ended of 6f° on the natural heat ascertained prior to the inflammation; but, as Hunter states, “ not equal to that of the blood probably at the source of circulation in the same man2. in a wound of a dog’s chest, in which before and after inflam- , niation the heat was 101°: 3. in a wound in the gluteal muscles of an ass 100° be- fore, and varying from 99° to 101^°after inflammation: 4. in the vagina of an ass from 99^°, as before the inflammation to 100^°. In other experiments on mucous sur- faces the heat was sometimes the same as before the inflammation, and sometimes in- . creased 1° or 2°.” (p. 293 to 300.) “ But,” as says Travers, “ the nerves measure the sen- sation rather than the degree of heat, and this is a widely different scale from those of Fahrenheit or Re'aumur, * * * this determination of blood to the capillaries in blush- ing is accompanied with a distinct though transient sensation of burning heat to the individual, yet not such as could be ascertained by the most delicate thermometer. It i is most probably to be referred to the extraordinary inlet of arterial blood into the capillaries : its longer detention by the congestion proper to inflammation, and the con- i| sequent increase and vigour of the neighbouring circulation would give permanency to the sensation, and render the actual increase of temperature appreciable.” (pp. 48, 9.) (6) In reference to the enlargement of the vessels of an inflamed part, and its visibly- increased vascularity, Hunter observes, that, “ instead of an increased attraction, there was rather what would appear an increased relaxation, of their muscular powers, being, as we might suppose, left to the elasticity entirely. This would be reducing them to a state of paralysis simply: but the power of muscular contraction would seem to give i way to inflammation; for they certainly dilate more in inflammation than the elastic > power would allow : and it must also be supposed that the elastic power of the artery must be dilated in the same proportion.” And he comes to the conclusion, “ When we '! consider the whole of this as a necessary operation of nature, we must suppose it some- ! thing more than, simply, a common relaxation : we must suppose it an action in the parts to produce increase of size, to answer particular purposes; and this I should call the action of dilatation.” (p. 282.) (7) This is pretty nearly the opinion of Dr. Cullen, who taught that spasm of the B extreme arteries supporting an increased action in the course of them, may be considered as the proximate cause of inflammation, at least in all cases not arising from direct i stimuli applied; and, even in this case, the stimuli may be supposed to produce a spasm i of the extreme vessels. The following is a brief account of Dr. John Thomson’s (a) observations on the •i variation of the current of the blood through the capillaries, resulting from the appli- cation of different substances:—“ Weak and strong spirits of wine were applied to the smallest arteries of the web in eight or nine different frogs, but without being able to > perceive any sensible change in the diameters of the arteries to which the spirits were ’ immediately applied, though the general circulation through the web seemed to be : increased by each application of the spirits. The results were the same when the tincture of opium was employed.” Weak volatile alkali, or ammonia, produced “ a complete contraction in the arteries to which it was more immediately applied. In upwards of one hundred experiments the contraction produced took place in less than two minutes after the application of the ammonia. In thirteen experiments con- traction did not take place till after a period of three minutes. In three or four instances only, in which the ammonia was applied, were the contractions not induced.” (p. 83.) “ In some instances I thought I could perceive an increase of the velocity of the general circulation immediately after the application of the ammonia; in others, this increase, if it took place, was so small as to he imperceptible: but the first and most remarkable visible effect of the contraction of the artery from the application of am- monia was a diminution of the velocity of the circulation in the capillary vessels with which the contracting artery communicates. When the contraction is complete, a temporary stagnation in the capillaries with which the contracted artery immediately communicates is often produced. * * * In all these experiments, in which am- monia alone was applied, a paleness rather than redness of the web in the foot of the trog was produced; but this paleness was only of short duration.” (p. 84.) “ In applying a saturated solution of common salt to the arteries in the web of the frog’s foot, I was not a little surprised to observe that these arteries, instead of being contracted as they md uniformly been by the application of the ammonia, were actually and sensibly (a) Lectures on Inflammation.