226 STRUCTURE OF straight, which terminates in a dilatation, or in convoluted branches, from which the vein arises. From the fact of the presence of these vessels, which converge towards, and form convolutions internal to the articular cartilage, it may be inferred that they supply the cells of the latter with a nutrient fluid. As the articular cartilage increases in thickness, and the ossific nucleus which is developed in the epiphysal cartilage be- comes larger, these vessels gradually recede from between them, and leave a consider- able mass of non-vascular cartilage between the osseous nucleus and the synovial membrane; all of this appears to be articular cartilage, which is now nourished by the vessels in the interior of the nucleus. The supply of blood-vessels in the cancelli of the osseous nucleus is remarkably abundant; they are large, and are separated from the surrounding cartilage by an extremely delicate lamina of bone, which is principally made up of osseous cells. I am induced to believe that at this stage of development, as in adult age, the fluid passes from the bone into the cartilage and nourishes it. * * * The articular cartilage, at this early period of life, is thicker than in the adult state. Al- though devoid of canals for the reception of blood-vessels, it presents numerous minute canals, which pervade that portion of it contiguous to the osseous nucleus, and they course from the latter towards the synovial membrane, which, however, they do not reach. * * * They are minute, and extremely numerous; they divide, sub-divide, and communicate with each other, and form dilatations. The parietes of these canals pre- sent distinct rounded cells, which in some places are arranged in rows and groups. The substance between these tubes is transparent, and contains no corpuscles. The articular cartilage above described is gradually being converted into bone during the whole of life.” (p. 165-7.) The nutrient vessels of articular cartilage during its development, which are situated betwixt it and its synovial membrane, “are contained and ramify in a considerable layer of cellular tissue,” by which that membrane is attached to the articular cartilage, and from which Toynbee detached nearly the whole. His statement, however, that “ these vessels have been alluded to by Dr. William Hunter under the name of * circulus articuli vasculosus,’ ” is quite incorrect, as reference to the passage already quoted will prove; in which Hunter says, they “ plunge in by a great number of small holes, and disperse themselves into branches between the cartilage aud the boneand not “ on the entire surface of the articular cartilage,” as described by Toynbee. “ It is difficult” says this latter writer, “ to state generally at what period of foetal existence these vessels, which have been spoken of in the first stage as forming convolutions around the joints, are prolonged upon its (the articular cartilage’s) surface.” But, after having studied with care these stages, he states, that “ at between the third and fourth month of fatal life these vessels are simply a mass of delicate convolutions, situated between the syno- vial membrane ; at the fifth month, these convolutions are somewhat unravelled, so as to extend over the surface of the cartilage to the distance of about half a line; and at between the seventh aud eighth months, they are drawn out and prolonged to the distance of a line and a half. At this stage, these vessels consist of arteries of considerable size, which radiate in a straight course from the attachment of the ligamentum teres. They give off but few branches, and, previous to terminating, divide and sub-divide, but do not much diminish in size. They terminate by turning and forming loops with the small veins. Subsequent to the eighth month these vessels begin to recede in their course; and at birth, and the periods subsequent to it, they are again found to be gathered im- mediately around the point of attachment of the ligamentum teres. After these vessels have receded, the position they occupied at the more early periods may be for some time detected by the white aspect of the cellular tissue between the cartilage and the synovial membrane.” In the knee-joint there is a little difference : “ The arteries which have run straight towards the centre of circulation, give off small branches, forming a delicate net-work communicating with the small veins, and terminate either by turning in their course, and forming broad loops with the venous radicles, or empty themselves into a single vessel from which the veins arise.” (p. 168.) The canals in adult cartilage, already mentioned, Toynbee describes as “irregular in their distribution; some are merely dilated cavities; frequently several of these • cavities are elongated and arranged serially, running from the attached towards the free surfaces of the cartilage. At the free or synovial surface these canals do not exist, the cells of the texture at this part being elongated and flattened, and having their long diameters parallel to the free surface. These canals contain a transparent fluid, which is seen to ooze from them after a section. It is most probable that the uninjecteu vessels mentioned by Meckel, Bichat, and others, were these canals and sinuses, (pp. 169-70.) The observations just alluded to are the following:—Meckel (a) sajs> (a) Ilandbuch der Menschlichen Anatomic, vol.i. Nairn et Derol., 1815-20.