MALIGNANT PUSTULE, AND HOSPITAL GANGRENE. 97 advisable to leave the separation of the parts to nature and saw off the bone. Full reports of observations on this subject are to be found in Thomson (a) and in Samuel Cooper (6). 78. The treatment of malignant pustule varies according to the ac- companying symptoms. The local treatment consists in cutting out the pustule by a circular incision, and afterwards cauterizing the edges of the wound with nitrate of silver or sulphuric acid, (also with the actual cautery,) and placing upon it charpie moistened with oxymuriatic acid. The slough is to be covered with a softening bran poultice, and, after it is thrown off, the treatment of the wound is to be simple. If the pustule be not deep, but the slough much outspread, it is proper to make deep scarifications and employ the remedies just mentioned. If general symptoms are not present, it is only necessary to use sulphuric acid or Haller’s acid mixed as a drink. If there be indications of gastric impurities, emetics must be employed in divided but sufficiently effectual doses, and, if they do not operate, purging, or vinegar clysters must be used. If the powers sink and nervous symptoms appear, strengthening and stimulating medicines are required; bark, serpentaria, arnica, valerian with elixir of vitriol, hydro- i chloric acid, and so on. But bleeding is rarely required, unless in decided plethora and great determination of blood to the head and chest. On malignant pustule see Larrey, as above, vol. i. p. 52. Hufeland’s Journal, vol. li. part v.; vol. liv. part iii.; vol. Ivi. part iv. ! Rust’s Magazine, vol. xv. part i.; vol. xvi. part iii.; vol. xvii. J. N. Hoffmann, der Milzbrand, oder contagibse Carbunkel der Menschen, mit Beruchsichtigung einiger damit zu verweckselnder Krankheitsformen uud einer frag- (mentarischen Uebersicht des bei den Thieren herrschenden Milzbrandes. Stuttgardt, 1827. 8vo. IRasedow, die schwarze Pocke; in Journal von von Graefe, u. von Walthf.r, vol. vii. p. 185; vol. xii. p. 549. Schroeder, liber die schwarze Blatter; in Rust’s Magazin, vol. xxix. part ii. Wendroth, iiber die Ursachen, Erkentniss und Behandlung des contagiosen Car- i bunkels. Sangershausen, 1838. 79. It is apparent, from the nature of the causes of hospital gangrene, *1 already mentioned in what way this dangerous complication of wounds and ulcers can be guarded against. Care must be taken as much as possible for purity of air and proper diet with a moderate use of wine; the 1 greatest cleanliness of the bandages must be observed, the wound must be i washed with a light aromatic infusion or with diluted alkaline solutions, and symptoms of gastric impurity must be removed by vomiting and purging. Emetics are especially advised by Pouteau, Dussausoy, and others, as the most important remedies at the beginning of the ( disease. They recommend them as being of themselves capable of stop- ping the advance of the disease. If the peculiar changes occur in the wound or in the sore, (par. 35,) washing the whole surface with good vinegar, after thoroughly cleansing with charpie, and frequently moistening the bandage with vinegar, is often sufficient at the onset to restore the wounds in a few days to their former condition. For the same purpose also is the solution of arsenic recom- (fl) As above, p. 538. (6) Dictionary of Surgery, article Mortification. VOL. I. ' H