109 BURNS. ■with the nitrate of silver some inches above. I have sometimes seen the erysipelas extend up to the belt and there stop ; at other times 1 have observed it move on without having met with any check. I am therefore doubtful of the efficiency of the nitrate of silver; but, if used, it should be carefully applied, even to blistering the skin, otherwise it is certainly useless—J. F. S.] 92. As various also are the opinions as to erysipelas consequent on i wounds, (Erysipelas traumaticum,) in which the most opposite fomenta- i tions, blisters, incisions and scarifications, cauterization with the red-hot i iron, (Larkey,) antiphlogistic treatment, emetics, and so on, have been recommended. If the above-described different kinds of erysipelas and i pseudo-erysipelas be borne in mind, and, if it be remembered that the traumatic erysipelas, which in four or five days accompanies wounds, is produced by different causes, as too great irritation of the wound by im- proper bandaging, foreign bodies, the application of greasy, too stimu- lating or too hot softening remedies, cold moist air, a bruised and torn condition of the wounded part, wounds of fibrous structures, gastro-biliary affections, mental excitement, improper food, and the like, it maybe easily perceived, how a proper observation of the various causes can alone prevent a merely routine treatment of so important a disease (a). II.—OF BURNS. Clowes, William, Aprooved Practise for all Young Chirurgians concerning Burn- ings with Gunpowder and Wounds made with Gunshot, &c. London, 1588. 4to. Ibid., A Profitable and Necessarie Booke of Observations for all that are burned with the flame of Gunpowder, &c., London, 1596. 4to. Kirkland, T., Abhandlung von Brandschaden. Nurnb., 1769. 8vo. Kentish, Edward, M.D., An Essay on Burns, principally upon those which happen 0 to Workmen in Mines from the Explosions of Inflammable Air (or Hydrogen Gas), &c. London, 1797. Svo. Ibid., A Second Essay on Burns. Newcastle-upon-Tyne. Svo. 1800. Earle. James, Essay on the Means of lessening the Effects of Fire ont he Human Body. London, 1799. Marjolin et Ollivier, Article Brulure, in Dictionnaire des Sciences Me'dicales. SMoulinie', Dissert, sur la Brulure. Paris, 1812. Dickenson, Nodes, Remarks on Burns and Scalds, &c. London, 1818. 8vo. Dzondi, K. H., iiber Verbrennungen und das einzig sichere Mittel, sie in jedem Grade schnell und schmerzlos zu heilen. 2nd Edit. Halle, 1825. Bodin, Essai sur la Bridure. Paris, 1830. Dugueron, Dissert, sur les Brulures. Paris, 1830. Dupu ytren, Legons Orales de Clinique Chirurgicale, Paris, 1832, vol. i. p. 413, vol. ii. p. 1. 93. Burns ( Combustioncs, Ambustiones, Lat.; Verbrennungen, Germ.; ' Brulures, Fr.) are produced by fire or heated substances touching our bodies. The action of caustic substances, especially of the concentrated mineral acids, corresponds precisely with that of fire. According to the degree of heat, in fluids therefore according to their consistence and ca- pacity for heat, according to the duration of the contact and the delicacy of the part touched, different degrees of burns are produced, which may be thus distinguished : 1. as superficial inflammation (Erythema;) 2. as more (n) Compare Larkey. Clinique Chirurgicale, vol. i. p. 21; Ballino as above.