554 FRACTURES OF THE arm, the projection is removed, but it immediately reappears upon giving up the ex- tension, and the natural contour is lost.” (pp. 277, 78.) I am quite sure that I have twice seen this accident in boys of about twelve years old, which, on the whole, corresponded with the appearance of fig. 1, pi. iii., in Cooper’s Paper. In neither of my cases was there the projection at the coracoid process which he mentions, and which I imagine was caused only subsequently by the ossific matter thrown out during the cure, as seen in the figure. In both my cases, the fracture seem to be very oblique from without and above downwards and inwards ; the head of the bone remained in the socket; but the great tubercle formed a blunt elevation nearly as high as the top of the acromion, and in one of the cases could not be brought down to its proper place, but united, forming a projection through the outer and upper part of the deltoid muscle. I have already mentioned, that the accident commonly heretofore spoken of as frac- ture of the neck of the scapula, and to which the characters described have been assigned, has been ascertained not to be a fracture of that bone, but of the upper-arm- bone. It was first determined by Astley Cooper, who calls it a fracture “ in the surgical neck, (of the upper-arm-bone,) viz., between the tubercles and the insertion of the pectoralis major, coraco-brachialis, latissimus dorsi, teres major, and the deltoides muscles.” (p. 281.) He has not, however, given any description of it, but, as would appear from the engravings, (pi. vi.) the broken inner part had slipped down and be- come attached to the inside of the shaft of the bone, so that the head facing directly inwards instead of upwards, has its upper part rather below the top of the great tubercle. The patient was a man of seventy-one years of age, and having lived two years after the accident, the union was complete. I have also a case of this kind, in which the patient, about sixty years of age at the time of the accident, died twenty years after. His symptoms were precisely those de- scribed as fractured neck of the blade-bone. The fracture has extended obliquely downwards and backwards between the front of the great tubercle and the outer edge of the bicipital groove for about three inches downwards and inwards, taking off the head and greater tubercle, which have together slipped down, back, and a little out- wards, so that the broken front edge of the neck seems thrust into the shaft on the inside of the little tubercle, although really only lying tilted a little into it. The head of the bone, in consequence, faces directly inwards, instead of as naturally, inwards and upwards, and its top is about the eighth of an inch below the top of the tubercle. The oblique or broken piece of the shaft is seen resting upon the back of the shaft itself, the wall of which is thinned. It seems to me that there is not much difference between Cooper’s case, just mentioned, and this, and that which he describes as very frequent in children.—J. F. S.] 646. The setting of this fracture is effected by an assistant, with both his hands fixing the patient’s shoulder, whilst another holds the fore-arm, with one hand above the wrist-joint, and presses with the other on the fore-arm. The arm is now to be swathed in a moist roller, a few turns made round the sound shoulder, and the bandage given to an assistant to hold. A narrow splint is then to be applied, from the bend of the elbow to the acromion ; a second from the outer condyle to the same height; a third from the olecliranon to the edge of the arm-pit; and a fourth from the inner condyle to the arm-pit, and these are to be fastened with some descending turns of the bandage. A pad is to be placed between the arm and the chest, as in fractured collar-bone, with the thick end upwards, upon which the arm is to be fixed with the spiral bandage, which should be carried round the chest; some turns of the bandage are to be taken beneath the elbow over the sound shoulder, for the purpose of supporting the arm, and the fore-arm must be put in a sling. This apparatus must be often renewed, because it very easily becomes displaced ; it presses much on the chest, and in women with full bosom cannot be employed. For these reasons, and because we can scarcely act upon the upper end of the fracture, Richerand (a) thinks it best to place the injured arm against the body, and so to bend the fore-arm that the hand may lie upon (a) Above cited, p. 143.