DISEASES DISTINGUISHABLE FROM HIP-DISEASE. 259 this kind, Brodie another, and Coulson another in a hoy nine years old, in which “ the limb was much elongated, the knee and foot turned outwards, and the head of the femur near or in the foramen ovale,” (p. 19) ; Ducros the younger (a) speaks of a dis- location forwards on the horizontal branch of the share-bone (os pubis) in a female twenty-seven years old, who had inflammation of the hip-joint. When dislocation has taken place the new socket is formed on that part of the pelvis on which the head of the thigh-bone rests, and according as the head is nearer or farther from the hip-socket, does the latter participate in the formation of the new joint, the un- occupied part of the socket being filled up with a structure which in one case Samuel Cooper (b) describes as consisting “ partly of a fungoid (granulating, I presume, j. f. s.) mass, and partly of firm coagulating lymph. The brim of the acetabulum was rough and gritty, and the os ilium above the acetabulum destitute of periosteum.” (p. 255.) The same writer also mentions a most remarkable instance which is in University College (London) museum, in which “ the articular cavity is formed in the upper portion of the femur and a new ball on the ilium. The old acetabulum is nearly obliterated, and near it within the pelvis the remains of the cyst of an abscess.” (p. 868.) At other times, however, no dislocation takes place, but the hip-socket expands, perhaps in part from the pressure of the pus contained in the capsular ligament or within the walls of the abscess which form about it, and in part from the continual pressure of the head of the thigh-bone against the edge of the socket, softened by its spougy tissue, which has lost its cartilaginous and bony articular covering, soaking con- stantly in pus, in consequence of which the socket loses its deep cuplike shape, and often resembles a shallow saucer with a much-everted lip. Upon this the wasted head of the bone moves, and were it not for the adhesive deposit which has taken place in the sur- rounding soft parts and rendered them unyielding, so that they really act as a mould to keep the parts of the joint together, the thigh would dangle, and never permit the weight of the body to be borne on it, which is contrary to what frequently happens.— J.F.S.] 236. Characteristic, however, as are the phenomena of coxalgy, yet may they be confounded with other diseases; for instance, with the congenital luxation of the thigh, with a shortening of the extremity from a recession and twisting of the hip-bone, nervous sciatica, and malum coxce senile. In Congenital Lameness, the cause of which lies in dislocation of the , hip-joint, the thigh is shortened from the very beginning : if, whilst the child lies in the horizontal position, the pelvis be fixed with the hand by slight drawing down, the thigh can be, without pain, somewhat length- 1 ened, but again shortens when the extension is withheld. The buttock i is either natural or Hatter, the motion of the thigh is free, and the sole of I the foot can be placed completely on the ground. If the congenital dislo- ation exist, as it usually does, on both sides at once, the diagnosis is thereby -issisted; but, if it exist only on one side, a mistake in the diagnosis can 3nly arise from superficial examination. I have, however, seen two cases >f congenital dislocation of the thigh on one side, which were really treated is coxalgy. In Twisting of the Hip-bone, which depends on weakness and looseness >f the ligaments, the patient suffers least pain in the morning but most in he evening, the one hip is higher than the other, the extremity is from he first shortened, and can be lengthened by a slight pull. In Sciatica the pain follows the course of the ischiatic or crural nerves; i here is a sense of lameness in the whole thigh ; no change is observed in ■•he position of the great trochanters or in the length of the two ex- tremities (1). In the malum coxce senile, which depends on interstitial absorption 'i ind wasting of the head and neck of the thigh-bone, pain and stiffness B u'st appear in the hip-joint; the former does not continue with equal a severity, and the latter is diminished or lost in walking, but generally (a) Gazette des Ilopitaux, June 30,1835. (6) Surgical Dictionary,—article, Diseases of Joints. S 2