NECROSIS. 687 If extensive and deep-seated, it is best removed by taking away the whole of the arti- culating extremities. When the situation of the caries prevents it from being cut out, amputation ought, if possible, to be performed; if this be impracticable, the disease will, sooner or later, prove inevitably fatal.” (p. 172.)] 867. If from examination with the probe it appear, that the diseased bone is partially or completely loose, it must be seized with the forceps, and drawn out, for which purpose the ulcer in the soft parts oftentimes must be enlarged. Commonly after the removal of the bone, the part upon which it was situated is covered with granulations, which must be very carefully destroyed with stimulating remedies. In cases where a large piece of bone has been completely destroyed, but will not separate, its removal must be effected by taking hold with the forceps, and moving it backwards and forwards ; or if this be insufficient, it must be assisted even with the trepan, or with the scraper, if the position of the diseased part permit. B.—OF NECROSIS. 868. Its low degree of vitality, is the cause of bone easily dying, and necrosis, which is analogous to the gangrene of soft parts, occurs as a con- sequence of inflammation, suppuration, or of a considerable tearing of the periosteum. According as the necrosis occurs from inflammation and suppuration, or from destruction of the connexion of the nourishing ves- sels of the bone, it may be distinguished into consecutive and primary. 869. Necrosis takes place at every age, in every condition of life and in both sexes, although usually in childhood and at the period of manhood ; j it is most frequent in the compact part of tubular bones, in the shin-bone, thigh, lower jaw, collar-bone, upper-arm-bone, splint-bone, spoke-bone, i and cubit; rarely in their spongy extremities. It also frequently attacks | the flat bones. Necrosis is situated sometimes in the external, sometimes in the internal layer of the bone, or attacks it throughout its whole bulk. All ailments which destroy the nourishment of the bone by the perios- i teum, or by the medullary membrane are to be considered as causes of 8 necrosis. They may be either external, as mechanical violence, tearing of • i the periosteum, exposure of the bone, particularly if it be long subjected i to the influence of the air, or be treated with acrid irritating remedies, 1 contusions, and so on ; or internal, in which may be included all the dys- n crasic diseases already mentioned (par. 863) from whence inflammation m and death of bone arise. The external causes rather produce necrosis of i the external layers of the bone, as the internal causes do internal necrosis. Oftentimes both causes operate together. [“ If the periosteum, which, by its own vessels is in most intimate connexion with the vessels of the bone, be destroyed to any considerable extent, the external layer of the bone (not its whole thickness) dies,” says Muller (a), “ because the vessels of the outer ( layer are rendered useless by the destruction of the periosteum. If the medullary tissue alone be destroyed by inflammation, or artificially in an animal’s bone which has been sawn through, the inner layer (not the whole thickness) of the bone dies, because the - vessels of the inner layer of the bone are in the closest connexion with the medullary vessels. Now the process which ensues, in internal necrosis, in the still living external part of the bone, and in external necrosis in the still living internal part of the bone, is i remarkable: it becomes inflamed to the extent of exudative effusion, as in an inflamed ' fractured bone, and subsequently the effused matter, as in that case, becomes organized ' and ossified. If the bone be injured externally and there be an outer necrosis, the b exudation takes place within the cavity of a tubular bone, and the medullary cavity is i thereby diminished. This callus on the interior of the cavity of a tubular bone (n) Physiologic lies Mensclien, vol. i.