DISLOCATION 788 dislocation, in the absence of previous injury, in the joint not being- the seat of pain, swelling, and the like, but especially in the unhurt condition of the capsule and of the tendon of the m. biceps, as well as in the simul- taneous existence of a pcs equinus in the same patient; in the form of the head of the upper-ann-bone being’ peculiar, and quite different from any change which he has noticed as consequent on disease or in old dislocation of the usual kind. Smith is not disinclined to find a resemblance between this congenital dislocation and that described by many writers, as partial dislocation of the upper-arm-bone, as well as that arising sometimes from rheumatic affection of the shoulder-joint, (A. Cooper,) or as an unusual atrophy of the upper-arm (Curling.) lie also supposes that in sub- acromial dislocation, the absence of the natural joint-surface, the complete resemblance of both unnatural articular cavities, the uninjured state of the tendons and ligaments, as well as the peculiar form of the head of the upper-arm-bone, speaks in favour of the congenital existence of this dis- location. With the few examinations which have been as yet made of this subject, it is not, however, possible to determine with certainty whether the cause of the dislocation should always be sought for in an original deficient formation of the joint surfaces, or whether such disloca- tions be not produced by the peculiar position of the child, and during birth, and the particular changes subsequently found, on examination, do not depend on the long continuance of the dislocation, and the previously incomplete development of the bones, and so on. In support of this opinion at least speaks an observation of Guillard (a), who reduced a congenital dislocation of the upper-arm-bone by horizontal extension after sixteen years. The reduction was effected after several futile attempts, and when effected it relapsed twice, and was again reduced. After the last reduction, however, the upper-arm for twro years and a-half was not displaced, and the movements of the limb were almost entirely natural. VII.—OF DISLOCATIONS OF THE FORE-ARM. 1044. These dislocations are distinguished into dislocations of the fore- arm from the upper-arm, and the separate dislocations of the spoke-bone and cubit. A.—OF THE DISLOCATION OF THE FORE-ARM AT THE ELBOW-JOINT. (Luratio Antibrachii, Lat.; Verrenkung des Vorderarmes, Germ.; Luxation de VAvant-bras, Fr.) 1045. Complete dislocations of the elbow occur but rarely, on account of the great strength of the joint, and are always accompanied with con- siderable tearing of the soft parts. The dislocation may be either back- xvrads or lateral, but dislocation forivards is impossible without simulta- neous fracture of the olechranon. 1046. The dislocation backwards is the most common, and always the most complete. The coronoid process of the cubit gets behind the pulley- like joint-surface of the upper-arm-bone, and rests in the pit formed for receiving the olechranon. The joint-surfaces of the upper-arm-bone are thrown upon the front of the spoke-bone and cubit, between the coronoid process and the insertion of the m. biceps. If the lateral ligaments are torn, the muscles surrrounding the joint, the skin, and even the brachial («) Revue Medicale, Aug., 1840.