QUESTION OF IMMEDIATE AMPUTATION 522 tion is set up the febrile excitement diminishes, and hence it may be fairly inferred that it plays an important part in setting up that process; and simultaneously with the latter, generally, commences granulation, by which the reparation of the injury, as well of the bone as of the soft parts, is effected. And thus, under the most favourable circumstances, are most compound fractures cured. But oftentimes these injuries do not thus terminate; there is no subsidence of the sympathetic fever, no appearance of suppux-ation, the constitutional excitement increases, and the “ secondary constitutional, or nervous symptoms,” as John Hunter calls them, come on, oftentimes under peculiarly irritable states of constitution, within a very few hours after the accident, and “ concur, or occur at the same time,” as he justly observes, almost with the onset of the sympathetic fever, so as it would seem really to be one of its conditions. And of these nervous symptoms the delirium is one of the most striking, and “ appears to arise from nervous affection of the brain or sensorium producing a sympathy of the action of the brain with the materia vita° of the parts; not sensation, as a head-ache, hut action, producing ideas without the exciting impression, and therefore delusive.” (p. 410.) Under these circumstances there is for a time also great vascular excitement, which may endure for four, five, or a few days longer, and is then followed by a change, frequently very rapid, to symptoms of a typhoid character, the powers of the constitution having been exhausted by the previous excitement, and the patient more or less quickly sinks and dies. Sometimes the nervous symptoms assume the tetanic form, which more especially happens when there has been much laceration ; and I think I have not less frequently noticed that the tetanus makes its appearance without any very violent sympathetic fever, and occasionally when the case has appeared to be promising favourably. When sympathetic fever have once set in, either without or with these nervous affec- tions, there is no choice left but to wait till its subsidence; no amputation can then be performed without every probability of hastening the patient’s dissolution. The irri- tating cause must, therefore, still remain, and the contest between it and the constitu- tion is kept up till one or other be vanquished. Too often, however, in these cases is it seen that though the constitution have power to struggle through the sympathetic fever, yet has it only sufficient strength to carry on to the remote or hectic period, when with much diminished powers the same course is again to run, with the additional drain of profuse suppuration, Hectic fever, “ when a consequence of a local disease, has commonly been preceded,” says John Hunter, “ by the first process of the former, viz., by inflammation and sup- puration, but has not been able to accomplish granulation and cicatrization, so as to complete the cure. It may be said to be a constitution now become affected with a local disease or irritation, which the constitution is conscious of, and of which it cannot relieve itself, and cannot cure; for while the inflammation lasts, which is only preparatory, and an immediate effect of most injuries, and in parts which can only affect the consti- tution, so as to call up its powers, there can be no hectic, (p. 496.) Hectic may be said to be a slow mode of dissolution; the general symptoms are those of a low or slow fever, attended with weakness, but more with the action of weakness than real weakness; for, upon the removal of the hectic cause, the action of strength is immediately produced, as well as every natural function, however much it was decreased before. The particular symptoms are debility; a small, quick and sharp pulse ; the blood forsaking the skin; loss of appetite; often rejection of all aliment by the stomach ; wasting; a great readiness to be thrown into sweats; sweating spontaneously when in bed; frequently a consti- tutional purging; the water clear.” (p. 499.) Such is the condition into which the patient with compound fracture frequently falls, sometimes sooner, sometimes later after the establishment of suppuration, and of which it may be mostly truly said with Hunter :—“ We have as yet, I am afraid, no cure for any of the consequences above related ; I believe that depends on the cure of the cause, viz., the local complaint, or in its removal; the effects I fear are not to be cured.” (p. 503.) But even under these discouraging circumstances, hope is not to be lost; and whoever has had much experience will agree with this great Surgeon in the course to be pursued, and the results which often follow. “ When the hectic,” says he, “ arises from local diseases, in such parts as the constitution can bear a removal of, then the diseased part should be removed, viz., when it arises from some incurable disease in an extremity, and although all the symptoms above described should have already taken place we shall find, that upon a removal of the limb the symptoms will abate almost immediately. I have known a hectic pulse at 120 sink to 90 in a few hours upon the removal of the hectic cause. I have known persons sleep sound the first night without an opiate who have not slept tolerably for weeks before. I have known cold sweats