406 PRESSURE OF THE BRAIN The patient is often attacked with giddiness at that part of the head where extravasation has taken place. That it is met with on the opposite side to that on which palsy occurs, or that the palsy of a particular part points out the seat of extravasation is an opinion not generally confirmed by ex- perience. If the extravasation be not found on one application of the trepan, another part may be trepanned where external violence has equally ope- rated. If the extravasation be beneath ^the skull, it flows out after tre- panning (1); bleeding from the diploe must, however, be distinguished from it. If the dura mater be stretched, violet-coloured, fluctuating, it may be divided by a suitable cross cut. If the extravasation be beneath the pia mater, it also must be cut into (2). Pressure of the brain from pus and lymph have been already treated of in considering inflammation of that organ and its membranes, {par. 400 and 411.) [(1) This is a very incorrect statement. The blood rarely, if ever, flows out after the trepan has been applied. It is almost invariably found coagulated; and, therefore, though a little bloody serum may escape, the bulk of the blood still remains upon the dura mater, and always requires removal by careful scraping with an eyed probe, or with the edge of a spatula where it can be easily reached. But the clot generally sticks so fast, that the dura mater cannot be entirely freed from it; and, even in the most favourable cases, suppuration of the surface of that membrane is the usual consequence. —j. f. s. (2) There has been great difference of opinion amongst the Surgeons of this country in regard to the propriety of puncturing the membranes of the brain, when extravasated blood is presumed to be between -the dura mater and the brain ; and I must confess I am rather disposed to agree, for the reasons presently given, with those who think little advantage likely to result from cutting through the dura mater. The subject, however, is so important, that it is right to state the opinions which have been held by the sup- porters of the different practices. Pott is in favour of puncturing the dura mater. He says:—“ If the disease lies between the dura and pia mater, mere perforation of the skull can do nothing; and therefore, if the symptoms are pressing, there is no remedy but the division of the outer of these membranes. The division of the dura mater is an operation ■which I have several times seen done by others, and have often done myself; 1 have seen it and have found it now and then successful; and from those instances of success, am satisfied of the propriety and necessity of its being sometimes done.” He does not, how- ever, withhold the fact, that “ wounds of the membranes of the brain, by whatever body inflicted or in whatever manner made, have always been deemed and (which is more to the purpose) have always been found to have been hazardous.” (p. 260.) He also observes, that “ when the extravasation is situated between the meninges, or on the surface of the brain, the appearance is not the same” (as when between the dura mater and skull.) “ In this case there is no discharge upon removing the bone ; and the dura mater, instead of being flaccid and readily obeying the motion of the blood, appears full and turgid, has little or no motion, and pressing hard against the edges of the per- foration rises into a kind of spheroidal form in the hole of the perforated bone. If the extravasation be of the limpid kind, the membrane retains its natural colour ; but if it be either purely fluid blood, or blood coagulated, and the subject young, the colour of the membrane is so altered by what lies under it, that the nature of the case is always determinable from this circumstance.” (pp. 264, 65.) Brodie holds that there are cases in which puncturing the dura mater is warrantable. He says (a):—“ We may regard it as a general rule, that an operation is not applicable to cases of compression of the brain from internal extravasation. But there are few general rules in Surgery to which some exceptions may not be made. Let us suppose a case in which a considerable portion of bone has been already removed, in which the dura mater is seen exposed, of a blue colour, lifted up by a collection of blood beneath it, and bulging as it were into the aperture which has been made in the cranium. Are we justified m puncturing the dura mater for the purpose of allowing the extravasation to escape!* Every thing that we see of wounds of the dura mater tends to prove the very great danger of this kind of injury. The dura mater should never be wantonly punctured; but we cannot doubt that, in what may be regarded as desperate cases, it must be right (n) Cited at head of Article.