339 VARIETIES OF GUN-SHOT INJURIES. balls can travel not merely round the convex surface of the walls of the different cavities of our body, but even completely around their concave surface. 337. The following general kinds of injury from shot wounds may be distinguished:— 1. The ball may not penetrate, but injure deep-lying parts in various ways, so that muscles and other soft parts may be bruised, and bones even crushed, without the skin being injured. ( Wounds by wind of the ball, or by rebound of shot.) This occurs, either because the ball has not sufficient power to penetrate, or because it strikes the body very obliquely (1). 2. The ball penetrates, but remains lodged, and the shot passage has but one opening (2). 3. The ball passes through : the shot passage has two apertures, the one by which the ball has entered, pressed in, as large or even smaller than the ball, and the circumference of the other larger, outspreading, irre- gularly torn, and little bruised (3). 4. The ball has taken off the greater part or the whole of the limb. Shot-wounds are also further distinguished into simple and complicated, according as merely soft parts of minor importance, or vessels, nerves, and bone are injured. (1) The opinion that the so-called wounds from the ivind of balls is produced by the j compression of the air, by the electric condition of the ball during its passage through ! the cannon or through the air has been long known as incorrect. Recently Rost (a) 1 and Busch (6) have again taken up wounds by the wind of balls, but have not ascribed j their operation to the pressure of the air, but to the vacuum momentarily produced by the j passage of a ball of large calibre, by which a turgescence in the part takes place exter- I nally towards the vacuum. This opinion, however, does not seem to me agreeable to ! the laws of physics. [“ It very often happens,” says Hennen, “ that while all is smooth and sound to the < eye, or there is perhaps only a slight erosion of the skin, a very serious injury has been j done to the subjacent soft parts.” If the vitality of the part be entirely destroyed, “ a ! circumscribed tumour, soft and pulpy to the feel, forms on the spot; the skin, at first of i a natural colour, gradually assumes a dusky shining hue, and either sloughs off, leaving i beneath a dark glossy, flabby, muscular mass, discharging tenacious bloody sanies, or ! else a chain of ill-conditioned abscesses forms, which soon run into one another, and burrow deep beneath the disorganized mass of skin and muscle, if not prevented by ■ timely evacuation.” (pp. 91,2.) (2) “ These appearances,” according to Guthrie, “ are by no means constant, or so strongly marked. If the ball impinge with violence against a surface capable of offering considerable resistance, the entrance will be well-marked. If the resistance offered be nearly equal to the momentum, the ball will lodge or pass through with a well-marked exit; but if the velocity and impulse be greatly superior to the resistance, the exit, although not a depression, will often partake in the appearances of the entrance, the velocity with which the ball passes through the part overcoming so instantaneously the resistance, that the laceration, which would otherwise take place in the passage of the ball from the dense medium of the body to the rarer one of the air, does not occur.” (P- 18.) Dr. Thomson says :—“ It is no uncommon thing for a ball in striking against the sharp edge of a bone to be split into two pieces, each of which takes a different direction. Sometimes it happens that one of the pieces remains in the place which it struck, while the other continues its course through the body. Of a ball split by the edge of the patella, I have known one half pass through at the moment of the injury, and the other remain in the joint for months without its presence there being suspected. In the same manner I have known a ball divided by striking against the spine of the scapula, and one portion of it pass directly through the chest, from the point of impulse, whilst the other moved along the integuments, till it reached the elbow.” (p. 37.) Similar to this is the case, mentioned by Dupuytrf.n, of “a man who received a shot, and the ball entering the lower part of the right leg was split into two upon the sharp edge of the (<i) Rust’s Magazin, vol. vii. part iii. p. 344. (ft) Ibid, vol. x. part iii. p. 372.