TREATMENT BY STITCHING. 741 zation of the whole fistulous canal, by means of a pencil, three times within six or eight hours, a wax bougie being in the urethra, after which an elastic catheter is to be introduced and fastened ; next morning the slough is to be removed by introducing a fine piece of sponge into the fistula, and the cauterization repeated after suppuration has been set up, till good gra- nulations are developed. The catheter should always be changed twice a day. In two or three months the cure of a tolerably large fistula may be effected, rarely howrever is the healing thus produced, and although the external opening be closed, it may be again burst open by a large stream of urine or during connexion (Dieffenbach.) If the cauterization of such fistulas do well, it may not merely be confined to the cal- lous edges, but may be extended to the immediate neighbourhood, as Koseu especially has done, and my own practice has assured me. 956. For closing these urethral fistulas, the suture of various kind, has been used, the interrupted stitch, (A. Coopek, Dieffenbach and others,) the glover’s stitch, (Zang,) the twisted stitch with five insect-pins, (Dieffenbach and others,) the quill stitch, (Friemann,) and the splint stitch, (Dieffenbach,) which resembles it. The result has been, how- ever, rarely satisfactory, because the thin edges of the skin afford in- sufficient points of union, and are little disposed to adhesion, which is also easily destroyed by the trickling urine, in spite of the catheter which has been introduced. The patient should be placed, as in the operation of cutting for the stone, and after a catheter has been introduced, the edges of the wound should be made raw, in small fistulas with caustic, or by shaving off the skin with a thin knife, and in larger openings a thin slice must be removed. According to the different size of the fistulas are a sufficient number of threads to be introduced with a fine needle, or suffi- cient insect-pins to be passed into the bottom of the fistula, and the union effected by tying together the threads, or twisting the silk around the pins. If much tension of the skin arise in consequence, a longitudinal cut must be made into the skin, half an inch from the w ound and stretch- ing beyond it, in order to relieve the tension, and to prevent the pins tearing out. 957. In fistulas not of large size, if surrounded with healthy skin and not immediately behind the glans, Dieffenbach has proposed and proved the running stitch as the most efficient. A catheter is to be introduced and the fistula frequently pencilled with tinct. cantliar. On alternate days the blisters which have been produced are to be removed, and a short tolerably thick elastic bougie introduced into the urethra. A thick, double-w'axed silken thread is now to be passed, with a curved needle, a quarter of an inch from the edge of the fistula, so that the threads may lie deep, without injuring the urethra. As the needle cannot be at once thrust through the whole extent, it must be thrice passed through, and introduced again through the same punctures, till in the end it comes out through the first puncture and the threads are drawn after it. Both ends of the thread are now to be tied with the double knot, so that the threads lie deep in the cellular tissue. The bougie is then removed, and no catheter introduced. A slight swelling of the penis occurs ; towards the seventh day, the threads become loose and can be somewhat drawn out; they may then be cut through and the part covered with sticking plaster. If a slight fistulous orifice remain, it may be touched with tinct. hjttce, or the operation repeated.