629 ULCERS. Herpes mentagra. The division of herpetic eruptions according to their external form is of little consequence, as they are remarkably changeable. 789. It is uncertain whether the proximate cause of herpetic eruptions consists in a specific dyscrasy, whether it be the same in all herpetic diseases, or whether upon its difference depends the peculiar form of the herpes. Some kinds, especially the eating kind, cannot in its advanced degree be denied to be contagious. The disposition to herpes which may also be hereditary, depends com- monly on a peculiar delicacy and sensibility of the skin, in which usually Herpes furfuraceus consists; the herpes mostly shows itself in those parts which are very sensible and are much exposed to the air, therefore especially on the face and hands. The remote causes are frequently stop- pages in the intestines of the belly, especially faulty action of the liver, sup- pression of the natural or long-continued discharges, haemorrhoids, sweat- ing of the feet, the monthly purification and the like, diminished secretion of the skin and kidneys especially in elderly persons, previous acute eruptions of the skin or acute diseases especially. Further, uncleanliness, neglected cleansing of the skin, irritation of the skin from rough, espe- cially from woollen clothing, or from working among wool; the nse of very acrid food and drink. This herpes is often complicated with scro- fulous, syphilitic, or gouty affections, and these seem to be its especial causes; although they can be less distinguished by the peculiar form of the eruption and ulcer, than by the general symptoms belonging to them. In hot climates herpes is more frequent than in cold; in our region it is more especially developed in summer ; in the winter it often subsides entirely or remains stationary. From what has been said, it is clear why the repulsion, or imperfect development of herpes, may bring about dangerous symptoms, inflammation and pain in the internal parts, spasms, convulsions, apoplexy, palsy, sudden death, stoppage in the bowels, dropsy, consumption, and so on. Veiel (a) has proposed a division of herpes, which is extremely important, both as regards the generic development and the treatment. According to his views, herpetic eruptions are either direct effluvia from the blood or diseased changes of the several organs of the skin. They are in part hereditary, derived from ancestors, and deeply rooted in the organism; in part acquired—that is, are the spontaneous crises of various diseases, as gout, rheumatism, and so on, or diseases consequent on acute and contagious exanthemata, as scarlet fever, itch, and so on. The blood-herpetic eruptions are primarily produced by an apparently fluid deposit beneath or on the skin, as the reflection of disturbance in the mixing of the blood, as the immediate effluvia from the extremities of the blood-vessels. The herpetic eruptions of the skin are secondary changes of the structure of the layers of the skin, produced first of all, by a disease of the actual organ of the skin, in which either the blood selects this organ as a depot, or in which it is spontaneously diseased. The blood-herpes is usually hereditary, shows itself in the development of the teeth as Strophulus and obstinate Porritjo; before puberty commonly as scrofula, especially as scrofulous ophthalmia; after it, as herpes, and finally as gout. The skin-herpes mostly acquired, occur as con- sequent of other eruptions, porrigo, itch, nettle rash; the blood-herpes, especially Eczema chronicum and Porrigo, from checking of the perspiration, from the mode of living, and so on. Blood-herpes is variable; it subsides and appears without discernible cause, and spreads suddenly; it prefers the vascular and richly glandular parts of the body, and selects bladders or pustules as its special form. The skin-herpes spreads constantly and obstinately, prefers the extending sides of the joint, and presents itself in scales and imperfect. The blood-herpes, as a semicritical result of deficient mixing of the blood, repelled by external remedies, may produce dangerous consequences from metastasis, whilst skiu- («) Ansichten iiber Flechten in Allgemeinen ; in Casper'b Wochenschrift fur die ges. Ileilkunde,