DIAGNOSIS OF GONORRIICEA. 167 r-r than a silver penny, and are commonly accompanied with fulness of both tonsils and uvula. I feel also pretty well assured that some eruptive affections of the skin are consequent on gonorrhoea, which are distinguished by their pinky stain from the copper stain of syphilis. But I am doubtful whether I have seen more than acne, lichen, and lepra.—J. F. S.] 160. The diagnosis of these several kinds of gonorrhoea is in many cases obscure and not to be determined with certainty by characteristic symptoms ; but its mild course, the short continuance of the discharge, the condition of the patient previous to the disease, the perhaps ascer- tained state of health of the person from whom the contagion has been received, in most cases furnish the guide. All gonorrhoea which has a malignant course, in which swelling of the testicles, inflammation of the inguinal and of the prostate glands occur, may be considered as syphilitic. In syphilitic gonorrhoea of women the danger of general syphilis is always greater than in men, on account of the copious secretion of mucus, and the excoriations thereby produced. [Almost all that can be said on the diagnosis of vaginal discharges has been already mentioned, in speaking of gonorrhoea in women, and leucorrhoea at par. 158. The con- tagious gonorrhoea, or true gonorrhoea of both women and men, has also been shown to be a disease distinct from syphilis, and, therefore, the swelling of the testicles, the inflamma- tion of the inguinal and prostate glands are not to be considered, as Chelius holds them to be, syphilitic, but merely sympathetic, and not requiring the treatment necessary for the cure of syphilitic affections. Hunter observes, in reference to this circumstance :— “It sometimes happens, although but seldom, that the glands of the groin are affected in a common gonorrhoea with the appearance of beginning buboes, but which I suspect to be similar to the swelling of the testicle, that is merely sympathetic. The pain they give is very trifling, when compared with that of true venereal swellings, arising from the absorp- tion of matter: and they seldom suppurate.” (p. 61.) Cooper agrees with Hunter that “ buboes of this kind rarely suppurate, but only in very irritable constitutions. He dis- tinguishes sympathetic from syphilitic bubo by “ one gland only, in general, being enlarged in syphilis, but in a sympathetic bubo most frequently a chain of glands is affected. Of the two sets of glands in the groin, one just above Poupart’s ligament, and the other about two inches, or two and a half inches, below it; the lower tier is seldom enlarged from sympathy, the upper frequently.” (p. 269.) That discharges from both the male and female genitals have produced, in some in- stances, gonorrhoea, and in other chancres, every one who has had the slightest oppor- tunity must have observed; and hence has arisen the opinion, long held by many surgeons, that the diseases were one and the same. But the examination of the vagina with the speculum, so largely practised, and on such good grounds strongly advocated by Ricord, explains the cause of these two sets of symptoms, by showing that in the vagina, and often even on the cervix uteri, chancres may exist, whence may be produced a discharge, which, without such examination, carelessly pronounced to be gonorrhoea, will cause chancre, or, if accompanied with gonorrhoea, may produce in one person chancre, in another gonorrhoea, and in a third both diseases at the same time, whilst the infecting party is presumed merely to have gonorrhoea. The use of the speculum, therefore, if only as a mean diagnosis, cannot be too strongly advised. In males it cannot be em- ployed to examine the urethra; in such cases, therefore, it is well if the practitioner have any cause for suspicion, to inoculate the matter from the urethra into the patient himself. If the discharge be simply gonorrhoeal, no inconvenience will ensue; but, if a chancrous sore should follow the inoculation, it is a proof that the disease is syphilitic, and that it must be treated accordingly. For the examination of the public prostitutes Ricoun lays down some rules which, under any circumstances where suspicious discharges from the female genitals exist, should always be followed. “ The examination ought here,” says he, “ to be neither slight nor illusive; not only should the external part of the organs be examined, but also the internal and more concealed, for the source of the poison which it is wished to avoid, often lies in the depth of the vagina, on the cervix uteri, or even in its cavity; and in these cases neither an external examination, nor the toucher would suffice, and the specu- lum alone can warn them of their danger.” (p. 255 ; Fr. edit., p. 540.) This able surgeon has also shown the importance of inoculating discharges from the sexual organs, in regard to medico-legal questions as to venereal diseases. “In questions