267 GENERAL TREATMENT. baths may be advantageously used, and issues inserted in the arm to keep up continual derivation. In this stage, also, I do not consider the use of warm bathing proper, (Rust, Brodie, and others,) on account of the motion therewith connected. The use of mercurial oint- ment has been prescribed in various ways: Fritz (a) employs Louvrier’s treatment, but not so as to produce salivation; Rust rubs in daily one or two drachms ; Jaeger justly considers this as too strong a dose, inasmuch as it frequently produces too speedy sali- vation, which, in scrofulous subjects especially, is always to be avoided; he therefore rubs in mercurial ointment, in increasing doses from ten to sixty grains, to which he adds about five grains every three or four days, so that altogether from one to three ounces are used; and, when salivation has commenced, he changes it for iodine or white precipitate ointment. [Brodie very justly lays great stress not only on rest but also on the patient’s position. He says (b) :—“ When the cartilages of the hip are ulcerated ,the patient should be con- fined to his bed or couch, being never allowed to move from it on any occasion. If left to himself, he is generally inclined to lie on the side opposite that of the disease. There are, however, good reasons why this position should be avoided, if possible. It neces- sarily distorts the pelvis and increases the disposition to a lateral curvature of the spine. It also, in those cases in which the round ligament of the joint is destroyed, facilitates the escape of the head of the femur from the acetabulum and the production of dislocation. Something may be done towards preventing this last by interposing a pillow or thick cushion between the knees; and it is difficult to do more than this, after the patient has already been lying on his side for a considerable time: otherwise he should be placed on one of the bedsteads invented by Mr. Earle, lying on his back, with the shoulders and thighs somewhat elevated and the latter as nearly as possible parallel to each other. On some occasions, however, it is convenient to fix the pelvis by a strap or bandage, passing over it, from one side of the bedstead to the other; and even the thigh may be fixed in the same manner. At a later period when, in consequence of the extensive de- struction of the articulation, the muscles begin to cause a shortening or retraction of the limb, I have found great advantage to arise from the constant application of a moderate extending force, operating in such a manner as to counteract the action of the muscles. For this purpose an upright piece of wood may be fixed to the foot of the bedstead, op- posite the diseased limb, having a pulley at the upper part. A bandage may be placed i round the thigh above the condyle, with a cord attached to it passing over the pulley and supporting a small weight at its other extremity. I will not say that the effect of such a continuance is to prevent the shortening of the limb altogether; but I am satis- fied that it will, in a number of instances, render it less than it would have been other- wise, at the same time preventing, or very much diminishing, that excessive aggravation of the patient’s sufferings with which the shortening of the limb is usual 1}' accompanied.” (pp. 145, 6.)] 245. The general treatment in the first two stages of coxalgy is directed by the degree of the inflammation, and the nature of its cause, hi severe acute inflammation, whether the origin be traumatic or otherwise, more than proper antiphlogistic treatment and attention to diet is superfluous. If the inflammation be chronic, the choice of internal remedies is to be directed according to the cause. In rheumatic and scrofulous patients, I have always found cod-liver oil in increasing doses, and, in torpid scrofulous subjects, the internal use of iodine, (after Lugol’s plan,) the most efficient. We may consider that both these causes are combated by the various remedies I * which have been recommended in coxalgy. | J-iEGER recommends tartar emetic in large or small doses, Zittmann’s decoction in divided doses; Rust, Dieffenbach, and others, use cod-liver oil; also the dccoct. i oallota lanatcr, the extract, pampinorum vitis vinifera? 3j. to 3ij. daily, or a saturated 1 decotion, or the recently expressed juice, (Frank, Rust, and others,) calomel, kermes mineral, sulphur, aurat., turpentine, and so on. rj Fuicke recommends, in coxalgy, (in the above given sense,) rest and fixing of the limb by an apparatus. If the thigh remain longer, this passive treatment is not sufficient, and a two-fold condition must be distinguished; 1st, an irritable state of the nervous system, in which the patient complains of this and that, has disturbed digestion, chyli- 00 Salzb. Med.-Chir. Zeitung, 1828, No.3/. (6) Third Edition.