IN-GROWING 198 ceding treatment of soothing poultices and bathing with chamomile, the most severe cases of this kind are often cured. [For the cure of Epinychia Abernethy recommends the use of “a combination of arsenic and sulphur, which, together with some herbs, formed the principal part of a quack medicine called Plunket’s Epithema; that composition, however, was horribly painful, and produced the most horrible sloughs, not by decomposing the parts, but by exciting vehement action ; I have, therefore, followed it so as to render it only a corri- gent, and, in many cases, it will relieve without producing pain.” For the same purpose he used also successfully the Aqua Arsenicalis of St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, consisting of arseniate of potash, spirit, and mint water, which he considered to have an excellent corrigent effect on local diseased action. It is also well to use it mixed with basilicon; but care must be taken in its employment, for if the constitution become affected, as sometimes happens, it will make the patient very ill, and even cause temporary blindness.] 191. It is here proper to mention two diseased conditions which depend on changed form and direction or unnatural structure of the nail, or are therewith connected ; growing of the nail into the flesh, and inflammation and suppuration of the surface producing the nail. 192. The Ingrowing of the Nail into the flesh depends less on an increase of the breadth of the nail, than on the pressing upwards of the soft parts. It is ordinarily consequent on squeezing together of the toes by tight shoes, especially if the nails be cut too short, and is almost confined to the great loe, specially to that side of it next the second toe. The irritation of the edge of the nail causes inflammation ; at first, the secretion of a serous fluid which dries to a callous mass ; subsequently suppuration and fungous excrescences spring up, which spread over the nail; the disease may even assume a carcinomatous character, or the inflammation may extend to the bone. The nail itself grows thicker, and is frequently softened at the ulcerated part. The pain in the severe form of this disease is always very great, and walking often becomes quite impossible. [ The commencement of this disease has been well-described by Wardrop, who says:— “ This affection is chiefly confined to the great toe. It frequently happens, when the foot is kept in a tight shoe, that the soft parts situated on the edge of the nail thicken, are pressed over it, and become more or less inflamed and painful. If the inflammation and thickening of the soft parts increase, the edge of the nail becomes at last completely imbedded in them, and its sharp edge, from the pressure of the body when resting on the foot, increases the inflammation, and produces suppuration of the contiguous soft parts. Thus the hard and sharp nail, by pressing on the surface which has become ulcerated, causes great pain and lameness, and in many cases, prevents the person from walking. The ulceration generally extends round a considerable part of the nail, and a fungus arises from this surface, accompanied by excessive irritability.” (p. 130.) This, “ the first variety,” says Dupuytren, “ consists of the ulceration sometimes of one, sometimes of both the lateral edges of the nail at once. It almost always happens on the outer edge. If the conformation of the nail be remembered, if the flatness of its body, the direction of its corners, its situation in the thickness of the skin which sur- rounds and covers it, we may easily conceive how a tight or ill made shoe, producing a constant pressure on the nail, will forcibly thrust its corners upon those parts of the skin where it rests. By degrees these corners, always more or less sharp and cutting, bury themselves into the skin, with the greater facility as the skin itself pushes upwards and outwards, and endeavours to cover them; finally, the irritation increases by walk- ing, and produces a very painful inflammation. Such is really the most common cause of the incarnation of the outer edge of the great toe. The affection almost always com- mences at the point of union of the front with the side edge of the nail, and appears to be occasioned by the fold that forms in the flesh ; as this interrupts the action of the scissors while cutting the nail, they are almost invariably checked before they can cut away the whole of its front edge, especially at that point where an angle is formed by union of the nail with its corresponding lateral edge. This allows the remaining nail to grow, which soon forms a sharp point, punctures, and cuts into the flesh, and gives a sort of signal of ulceration which soon spreads along the corresponding edge of the nail. So sure is it that this point is constantly found on the nails which have been