254 DISTINCTION BETWEEN THE paralysis of that organ. (I presume he means retention of urine.—j. f. s.) On exam- ination after death, I discovered,” says he, “ that the matter had escaped through the acetabulum to the posterior part of the bladder, and had made a lodgment close to its neck.” (p. 23.) Samuel Cooper quotes a case under Dr. Mackenzie, of Glasgow, of a lad of sixteen, who died of enormously enlarged liver; but, on dissection, a communi- cation was found through the bottom of the acetabulum, between the cavity of the hip- joint and the colon, smooth, as if of long standing, (p. 8G9) Scott also mentions a case of this disease affecting both hips, and the abscesses communicated with the cavity of the pelvis on each side, through the acetabulum, (p. 106.) So great is the importance of Diseases of the Hip-Joint, that I think it advantageous to give at length Brodie’s account Of the difference between the Hip-disease arising from Ulceration of the Cartilage, and that from Scrofulous deposit in the cancellous structures of the Bones. As already stated, Brodie considers that ulceration of the cartilages is the primary affection in the disease to which the term Diseased Hip is usually applied, and that the scrofulous affection of the cancellous structure is less common in the hip and shoulder than in many other joints, and that these two diseases have many circumstances in common, but have certain points of difference which, in their early stages, admit of their being distinguished from each other by careful and minute observation, it will be ad- visable to give his account of the symptoms presented by each. The occurrence of ulceration of the cartilages at any period of life, though most fre- quently between the age of puberty and thirty-five years, has been already noticed, (p. 236,) as has that of scrofulous affection occurring frequently in children, though rarely after thirty years of age. (p. 238.) “ When the cartilages of the hip are ulcerated, the only symptoms met with for some time are pain, and a slight degree of lameness in the lower limb. The pain at first is trifling and only occasional; afterwards becoming severe and constant. It resembles a good deal the pain of rheumatism, since it often has no certain seat, but is referred to different parts of the limb in different individuals, and even in the same individual, at different periods. As the disease advances the pain becomes exceedingly severe, parti- cularly at night, when the patient is continually roused from his sleep by painful startings of the limb. Sometimes he experiences some degree of relief from pain in a particular position of the joint, and in no other. A patient in St. George’s Hospital never obtained any rest except when he had placed himself on the edge of the bedstead, with his feet on the ground and resting on a pillow. As the pain increases in intensity, it is more con- fined in its situation. In the greater number of instances it is referred to the hip and knee also, and the pain in the knee is generally the most severe of the two. At other times there is pain in the knee and none in the hip. Sometimes there is pain referred to the inside of the thigh, sometimes even to the foot. Wherever the pain is situated it is aggravated by the motion of the joint; but it is aggravated in a still greater degree by whatever occasions pressure of the ulcerated cartilaginous surfaces against each other. Hence the patient is unable to support the weight of the body on the affected limb; and if he be placed on an even surface, in a horizontal position, and the hand of the surgeon applied to the heel, so as as to press the head of the femur against the concavity of the acetabulum, violent pain is the consequence, although this be done in so careful a manner that not the smallest degree of motion is given to the hip-joint. This circumstance is well deserving of attention; and no one should attempt to give an opinion as to the nature of a disease connected with the hip, without having made an examination in the manner which has been just described. Soon after the commencement of the complaint the hip- joint is found to be tender, whenever pressure is made on it either before or behind. The absorbent glands in the groin become enlarged, and sometimes suppurate. Occasionally there is a slight degree of general tumefaction in the groin. In this there is nothing re- markable, since we must suppose that a disease going on within the articulation must ultimately occasion inflammation in the neighbouring parts. But it is a curious circum- stance, that in some cases there is tenderness of those parts, to which, though not dis- eased themselves, the pain is referred from sympathy with the disease in the hip. I have observed this in the knee several times, and I have also seen a slight degree of puffy swelling of this joint, where pain was referred to it in consequence of disease in the hip. * * * When the disease has existed for some time the nates undergo a remark- able alteration in their form. They become wasted and less prominent, so that, instead of their usual convexity, they present the appearance of a flattened surface: they are flaccid to the touch, and hang more loosely towards the lower edge, and they have the appearance of being wider than those of the other side. In a very few cases, in the