FRACTURE OF THE 532 always connected with injury of the spinal marrow or its nerves, either by concussion, by inpressing of the pieces of bone, or by extravasation; or inflammation may ensue. Palsy of all the parts below the injury may occur either immediately, or some time after the accident; palsy of the lower limbs, of the bladder, (with alkaline state of the urine,) and of the rectum, if the fracture take place at the lower part of the spinal column ; simultaneous tension of the belly and difficult breathing, if the fracture be higher. In consequence of lying continually on the back, which the patient is compelled to persist in, on account of the palsy of his lower limbs, inflammation and mortification occur upon the rump-bone ; the palsy spreads generally further, and the patient dies of exhaustion in a shorter or longer time, four or five weeks after the accident: often, however, if he live longer, the palsy diminishes, the effects of lying heal, but at last, even years after, the patient yields to spinal consumption. If the fracture occur with dislocation above the third vertebra, death speedily ensues. Fractures beneath the origin of the phrenic nerves, cause palsy of the arms and of the deeper parts ; it is, however,; rarely complete, one arm is frequently affected more than the other if the fracture be oblique ; the breathing is very difficult: death usually occurs in from three to seven days (a). When inflammation sets in delirium, restlessness, and priapism come on ; the patient raises himself up, and tries to stand upright, and death usually happens about the fifth day (b). If the inflammation be lingering, its subsequent transition into exudation and suppuration of the spinal marrow, is fatal. Phillips (c) witnessed a remarkable case of fracture of the first vertebra and of the pivot process of the second, in which the transverse ligament remained whole, and im- mediate death did not take place, and the patient only died forty-seven weeks after the accident, of water in the chest. Jaeger (d) rightly supposes that the preparations of fracture of the spine healed by callus, of which I myself possess two examples, prove no more than that these fractures may unite in from eight to twelve weeks by callus or tough ligamentous bands, but not that the patient will be cured of his palsy. I also agree with him that many cases of pretended union of fractured vertebra are very suspicious, and may have been only mere bruising, stretching of the ligaments, con- cussion of the spinal marrow. I have, however, notes of one case in which union of a vertebral fracture, accompanied with perfect palsy of the lower limbs and bladder, ensued, and the patient continued improving for ten years. [(1) If by this expression Chelius mean strictly, fracture of the body of a vertebra without that of any other part of it, he is quite correct; but if he mean that fracture of the body with that of some other part of the vertebra, he is wrong; for I have notes of five cases which were admitted, in one year, into St. Thomas’s Hospital. Fracture of the body does not always require very great violence for its production, unless the blow be received on the fractured part. The following are two very re- markable instances in which the fracture was caused merely by jumping head foremost into the water. Case 1. A sailor about forty years of age, in good health, jumped headlong from a ship into the sea to bathe, a sail being spread a few feet below the surface to receive the bathers, and protect them from the sharks. It is supposed, that his head was violently thrown back on coming in contact with the water or sail, as he immediately became motionless. When got on deck, all the muscles of the limbs and trunk below the shoulders were observed to be paralysed, and respiration was performed by the diaphragm alone. The circulation and temperature were natural, and the senses per- fect. In a few hours after the occurrence of the accident, vomiting commenced and became more frequent till he died at the expiration of forty-eight hours. Upon examination, the fourth cervical vertebra was found completely7 severed through its body, which was widely separated from that of the third. The left side of the (а) Cooper, A., On Dislocations. (c) Medico-Chirurgical Transactions; and in the (б) Belt., Chari.es, above cited. London Medical Gazette, March, 1830. (d) Above cited, vol iii. p. 229.