SPINE-DISEASE— 278 move much, or at all briskly; in no great length of time after this he may be observed frequently to trip and stumble, although there be no impediment in his way ; and when- ever he attempts to move briskly, lie finds that his legs involuntarily cross each other, by which he is frequently thrown down, and that without stumbling; upon endeavour- ing to stand still and erect without support, even for a few minutes, his knees give way and bend forward. When the distemper is a little further advanced, it will be found that he cannot, without much difficulty and deliberation, direct either of his feet pre- cisely to any exact point; and very soon after this both thighs and legs lose a good deal of their natural sensibility, and become perfectly useless for all the purposes of loco- motion. When an adult is the patient, the progress of the distemper is much the same, but rather quicker, (p. 397-99.) * * * Without this erosive destruction of the bodies of the vertebra; there can be no curvature of the kind I am speaking of (curve forward); or, in other words, that erosion is the sine qua non of this disease; and although there can be no true curve without caries, yet there is, and that not unfre- quently, caries without curve. Also that the caries with curvature and useless limbs is most frequently of the cervical and dorsal vertebra; the caries without curve, of the lumbal, though this is by no means constant or necessary. And that in the case of carious spine without curvature, it most frequently happens that internal abscess and collections of matter are formed, which matter makes its way outward, and appears in the hip, groin, or thigh ; or being detained within the body, destroys the patient: the real and immediate cause of whose death is seldom known or even rightly guessed at, unless the dead body be examined. Further, that what are commonly called lumbal and psoas abscess, are not unfrequently produced in this manner, and therefore, when we use these terms, we should be understood to mean only a description of the course which such matter has pursued in its way outward, or the place where it makes its ap- pearance externally. * * * And contrary to the general opinion, a caries of the spine is more frequently a cause than an effect of these abscesses.” (pp. 472-74). “ After ulceration has gone to a certain extent,” says Lawrence, “ the spine bends forwards and becomes crooked; but the curvature which is thus produced essentially differs in its nature and direction from that of rickety affection of the spine ; the curva- ture, in the present case, is always in the anterior direction, while in rachitis it is to one side.” (p. 561.) Brodie, however, observes, “this rule must not be admitted without some exceptions. A slight degree of lateral curvature is, in some instances, the conse- quence of caries, * * * by the bodies of the vertebra having been destroyed on one side to a greater extent than on the other.” (p. 311.) With regard to the so-called palsy of the limbs in this disorder, Pott remarks:— “ I have, in compliance with custom, called the disease a palsy; but it should be ob- served that, notwithstanding the lower limbs be rendered almost or totally useless, yet there are some essential circumstances in which this affection differs from a common nervous palsy ; the legs and thighs are rendered unfit for all purposes of locomotion, and do also lose much of their natural sensibility: but, notwithstanding this, they have neither the flabby feel, nor have they that seeming looseness at the joints, nor that total incapacity of resistance, which allows the latter to be twisted in almost all direc- tions ; on the contrary, the joints have frequently a considerable degree of stiffness, particularly the ankles, by which stiffness the feet of children are generally pointed downwards, and they are prevented from setting them fiat upon the ground.” (p. 400.) (2) Brodif. says:—“ There is reason to believe that suppuration takes place at an earlier period in those cases in which the disease has its origin in the cancellous structure of the bones, than where it begins in the intervertebral cartilages. It is remarkable in some cases of this last description, to how great an extent ulceration will sometimes spread without the formation of abscess. I have known as many as three bodies of vertebra completely destroyed, and the disease to have lasted many years, without matter having been formed. * * * We must not however conclude because no abscess has shown itself, that therefore no abscess exists. Frequently, in examinations after death, we find an abscess in connexion w ith carious vertebra, which had never presented itself externally, but which evidently had existed fora considerable length of time. It is not uncommon to find caries of the vertebra going on for two or three years before there are any certain indications of the existence of abscess. In one case in which the disease was in the vertebra; of the loins, an abscess presented itself in the groin at the end of eight years ; and in another case, in which the disease was situated in the dorsal vertebra, the interval was still longer, not less than sixteen years.” (pp. 253-54). Brodie makes the following interesting observation on the disappearance and re- appearance elsewhere of abscess, connected with carious spine: “ I have known an ab- scess to have descended from the loins, and presented itself as a tumour in the groin.