DIVISION. 613 ■Rust, J. N., Ilelkologie, oder iiber die Natur, Erkenntniss und Heilung der Geschwiire. Wien, 1811. 2 vol. Second Edit.; 'with copper plates, fol. Berlin, 1838. Rust, J. N., Einige Bemerknngen iiber das Wesen der Geschwiire. Ein Beitrag zur Bearbeitung der Helkologie; in his Magazin fur die gesammte Heilkuude, vol. xii. pt. iii. p. 512. Rust, C., De Ulcerum diagnosi et mtiologia nonnulla; cum tab. vii. col. Berol., 1831. 4 to. Bluff, M. J., Ilelkologie. Lehre von Erkenntniss und Behandlung der Geschwiire. Berlin, 1832. 8vo. Hunter, John, Lectures on Surgery. Palmer’s Edition. Vol. i, 746. An Ulcer ( Ulcus, Helcoma, Lat.; Geschwiir, Germ.; Ulcere. Fr.) is a long existing division of organic parts depending on irregu- larity of the vegetative processes, and accompanied with the secretion of an ichorous and sanious fluid, and a continuing destruction of the parts in which it is situated. Ulcers are therefore distinguished from abscesses and suppurating wounds, but may originate from them, if by a change of vitality in the suppurating surfaces the process of regeneration be converted into -ulceration or ulcerative absorption. 747. The causes of ulcers are either internal or external. The former < consists in a peculiar deviation of the whole organism, or of single organs, ■ from the natural type, with a great degree of weakness and flabbiness, or i with those diseases, of which the ground depends on some change in the i assimilation, for instance, acute and chronic eruptions of the skin, scro- fula, syphilis, gout, scurvy, dropsy, suppression of the usual discharges, and the like. These diseases, either of themselves, or after the operation of i an occasional cause, produce an ulcer. The external causes are all in- juries which, producing inflammation and suppuration, break up the con- ■ nexion of parts ; wounds, abscesses, the healing of which is prevented by i an existing disease, or by improper treatment; specific diseased matter operating locally, and the like. 748. Ulcers are divided into simple and complicated. Simple ulcers are those which are connected neither with peculiar local nor general disease, but depending only on the decided destruction of connexion which accompanies them, according to the condition already stated (par. 746.) Complicated ulcers are, on the contrary, those connected with pecu- liar local or general disease. In regard to local complication, there may be distinguished fistulous, callous, (edematous, varicose, fungous, sloughy, and carious ulcers; further, ulcers, with a secretion of thin, lardy, acrid, stinking, saline, and variously coloured matter. General complications consist in the presence of the diseases and dyscrasies above mentioned (par. 747) ; hence are distinguished atonic, scorbutic, scrofulous, arthritic, syphilitic, carcinomatous, and impetiginous ulcers. From what has been said it results that ulcers may be local and general ailments. It is, however, to be herewith remarked, that ulcers which at first depend on a decided internal cause, often previous to healing, become merely local; and so, on the contrary, those which at first were actually local, in their course draw the whole body into participation, and may become complicated ulcers. 749. The reaction of ulcers upon the whole organism varies according to their nature. In specific ulcers the general indisposition is increased by the absorption of the pus secreted in the ulcers, and tainted with the spe- cific poison. In ulcers in which the secretion of pus especially is very great, and of a bad kind, there arises a general weakness, partly from the