MODE OF UNION OF 516 this effused blood has no share in producing union of the ends of the bone, as it becomes after a few days entirely absorbed. Next there is a fluid poured out between the periosteum and the bone which separates the periosteum from the surface of the bone, for about an inch or an inch and a half beyond the place where the bone is frac- tured. This fluid does not cause a laceration of the vessels of the periosteum, but rather an elongation of them. Now here is the difference between the simple and the com- pound fracture ; for, in the former, the fluid, after accumulating for a day or two, becomes in a great measure taken up by the absorbents, and adhesive matter is poured out in its stead, but in the latter a suppurative process is established, and granulations arise from the broken surfaces. In these granulations cartilage becomes deposited, and continues to be formed for some time ; the discharge of pus gradually diminishes, and in compound fracture cartilage continues to be formed until about the twentieth day. It is deposited between the internal surface of the periosteum and the external surface of the bone. At the place where the fractured ends are brought into contact, the periosteum becomes absorbed and cartilage is deposited between them, in which patches of bony matter are formed, and these, when completed, are covered by an extension of the original periosteum. * * * * Under the granulations arising from the cancellated structure cartilage is also found, and from the seventeenth to the twentieth day there are bony patches deposited in the cartilage. It is by the accumulation of these patches that ossific union gradually takes place. A compound fracture is necessarily slower in its progress towards recovery, from the causes just explained, than a simple fracture, and the union is frequently retarded by exfoliations of bone, which will often take up a tedious time to separate, and keep up considerable irritation. Three months may be considered a short time for the union of a compound fracture to take place; sometimes the accident is not recovered from in nine months, and occasionally not even in twelve.” (p. 644-46.) The following is the summary which Miescher gives of his experiments on rabbits to ascertain the processes under which suppurating fractures are united:— “ If the circumstances which occur in the progress of suppurating fractures be com- pared with those noticed in simple fractures, it will be seen that the mode and way of cure is precisely the same in both. The soft parts swell, coalesce, and together form a capsule around the fracture, from the internal surface of which, and from the medulla, although from the latter, according to circumstances, not always, a new substance pro- ceeds, and when sprung from both, at length envelopes the several fragments untied together; whence it is self-evident that this is the same substance as that which I have called intermediate. At a subsequent period, as seen in the fourth experiment, this substance produces a sort of fibro-cellulous membrane, easily separable from the other soft parts, and comparable with the periosteum, which, in simple fractures, is presented as the recent investing callus; this, therefore, is the only difference, that in the fractures of which we are now speaking pus is formed, and the new substance at its commence- ment presents the appearance of granulations. The substance of the callus which fills up the medullary cavity is produced by simple exudation, as in simple fractures, and no less are the first fruits of the external callus, by which the periosteum still adheres to the bone, produced by simple exudation; but so soon as the callus has stretched beyond that part, the rest is formed by the granulations growing with a secretion of pus. Why all these formations should proceed more slowly is easily understood, from the circumstances generically connected with suppurative inflammation. “ However, there is this very great difference between the cure of simple and suppu- rating fractures, that in the latter the ends of the fragments are bared, and that the evolution of the later callus takes place on them ; but in the third and fourth experi- ments there could be no doubt that the bared parts of the bone were dead, because very decided marks of incipient exfoliation existed; and in the other experiments, the white colour of the bone showed the presence of necrosis. On the one side only would there be necrosis, if the other, as it seemed, had not been at first deprived of periosteum; but the entire extremity of the fracture would be involved if the periosteum had been torn from its whole circumference. If the medulla remained healthy to the edges of the fracture, the necrosis would attack only the surface of the bone, but if the medulla, killed as it seemed by the violence of the inflammation, were destroyed throughout the whole bone, so far as the medulla was dead the necrosis would be seen. The splinters had arranged themselves ; those which were entirely separated, were, as might be expected, not contained in the callus, but, on the contrary, still adhered by one part to the periosteum, new bony substance proceeded from them, and that surface of them towards the cavity filled with pus, was alone dead, just as the bared ends of the fragments. “ How the cure proceeded after the separation of the necrosis I am sorry I cannot from