346 PROPER TIME FOR although not curable, we should certainly allow of it, for we may be assured that the patient will be better able to bear the second. If the chances are so even, where com- mon circumstances in life favour the amputation, how must it be where they do not ? how must it be with a man whose mind is in the height of agitation, arising from fatigue, fear, distress, &c. ? These circumstances must add greatly to the consequent mischief, and cast the balance much in favour of forbearance. If it should be said that, agreeable to my argument, the same circumstances of agitation will render the accident itself more dangerous ; I answer that the amputation is a violence superadded to injury; therefore heightens the danger, and when the injury alone proves fatal, it is by slower means. In the first case it is only inflammation ; in the second, it is inflammation, loss of substance, and most probably loss of more blood, as it is to be supposed that a good deal has been lost from the accident, not to mention the awkward manner in which it must be done. The only thing that can be said in favour of amputation on the field of battle is, that the patient may be moved with more ease without a limb than with a shattered one.” Hunter, however, doubts any advantage being obtained even on that point. He admits, “ it is of less consequence whichsoever way it is treated if the part to be amputated is an upper extremity.” And he even goes on to say, “ If the parts are very much torn, so that the limb only hangs by a small connexion, then the circumstance of the loss of so much substance to the constitution cannot be an objection, as it takes place from the accident, and indeed every thing that can possibly attend an amputation; therefore, in many cases, it may be more convenient to remove the whole. In many cases it may be necessary to perform the operation to get at blood vessels, which may be bleeding too freely; for the searching after them may do more mischief than the operation.” (pp. 561, 63.) Hunter’s objections to primary amputation do not, however, appear to have had much weight, at least with the army surgeons of his own or the immediately subsequent period, for Hennen states, on the authority of Dr. Pitcairn, who served in the expe- dition to Egypt, “ that whenever the surgeons could operate ou the field in that country they did so; and for himself, he only lamented that he could not remove more limbs in that situation, having never had a doubt upon the point, and being still more confirmed in the justice of his opinion by the results of the deferred operations.” To this Hennen adds:—“ On the first landing of our troops in Portugal, the propriety of the practice was impressed upon the surgeons, as I have been informed, by Mr. Gunning, then senior Surgeon upon the staff, and subsequently Surgeon-in-chief of the Peninsular army; the practice was constantly followed, and the precept orally delivered from surgeon to sur- geon, during the whole period that I served in that country.” (p. 43.) Guthrie has ably advocated the practice of early amputation after gun-shot injuries, and makes the following judicious observations, which equally apply to this operation when required by any other accident, and which should never be lost sight of. “ The anxiety (shown by the soldiers) to have these operations executed with as little delay ! as possible, has sometimes been prejudicial; for as much attention must be paid, in my opinion, to avoid operating too soon as too late, and perhaps for a reason quite contrary to that usually received as legitimate for not operating, viz., that the sufferer may have time to recover from the shock of the injury, and approach as near as possible to a state of health; and the farther he is from this state, the greater the chance of a fatal termi- nation. If a soldier at the end of two, four, or six hours after the injury, has recovered from the general constitutional alarm occasioned by the blow, his pulse becomes regular and good, his stomach easy, he is less agitated, his countenance revives, and he begins to feel pain, stiffness, and uneasiness in the part; he will now undergo the operation with the greatest advantage; and if he bears it well, of which there will be but little doubt, he will recover in the proportion of nine cases out of ten in any operation on the upper i extremity, or below the middle of the thigh, without any of the bad consequences usually mentioned by authors as following such amputation. If, on the contrary, the operation n be performed before the constitution has recovered itself, to a certain degree, from the j alarm it has sustained, the additional injury will most probably be more than he can . bear, and he will gradually sink under it and die.” (p. 216.) Upon the same point Hennen also observes:—“ The propriety of amputation on the 1 field being admitted, the question naturally suggests itself, what is the proper period J instantly on the receipt of the wound, or consecutively ? The practical reply is. with I as little delay as possible.” But when “ an army surgeon finds a patient with a feeble- I ness and concentration of the pulse, fainting, mortal agony, loss of reason, convulsions, 4 hiccup, vomiting, irregular chills, stiffening of the whole body, universal feeling of cold t and numbness, sense of weight, change of colour, and other symptoms of collapse, so i well described by Le Conte, he waits patiently for a return towards life : he administers I