441 PENETRATING WOUNDS OF TIIE CIIEST. become more difficult, and nineteen ounces of blood were withdrawn. Some threads of flannel were observed deep in the wound under the right arm, but were not disturbed. On the 22nd he had less pain and difficulty in breathing than since the accident, but complained of distressing sensations about the chest, which he could not describe. To- day his body linen was for the first time changed, and careful examination being made, not the smallest trace of injury could be found on the back. This done, it was thought advisable to take away fourteen ounces of blood, which relieved him more than before, not feeling any pain, only a smarting sensation, similar to that he had experienced in the wounds under the arms, on each side of the breast-bone internally, in the direction in which he was convinced that the shaft had passed. A blister was then re-applied, and kept open for some days.' From this time he slowly recovered, and at the end of nine weeks the wounds were nearly closed. He lived for five years without inconve- nience, except being put out of breath, on making any exertion, sooner than usual, and having the motions of his arms backwards, or raising them upwards, restricted by a feeling of tightness across the chest. After this time he occasionally suffered from considerable difficulty of breathing, irregular pulse, and struggling rather than pul- sating action of the heart. He did not take much care of himself, and, after a time, became more seriously ill, and died March 2, 1823, nearly ten years subsequent to the accident. ■ Examination.—The thorax was somewhat distorted, from an angular projection at the union of the upper and middle portions of the sternum, on each side of which was an irregular depression ; on the left, and four inches and a half from the middle of the bone, the depression extended forwards three inches, along the intercostal space between the second and third ribs; on the right, at three inches distance, the depression ex- tended backwards two inches between the same ribs. The upper cicatrix, on the left I side, was behind the margin of the great pectoral muscle, and the under one an inch ■ below it. The right cicatrix was opposite the intercostal space of the third and fourth ribs. The m. pectoralis minor adhered to a membranous substance occupying the place • of the destroyed intercostal muscles, thin, smooth, strong, and transparent, through which the lung could be seen on the left side, but not on the right. The cartilage of the left second rib had been broken, and was only united by ligamentous substance, and the rib . itself also fractured, two inches behind, had united with its inner edge turned a little into the chest; the third and fourth cartilages had been fractured, but united by bone. The right third rib had been broken. On opening the chest, the lungs were found ■ strongly adherent, at their back part, to the pleurcc. In front, on the left side, the lung I adhered to the displaced second rib, and to the membrane between the second and third ribs, the adhesions extending to the mediastinum as low as the fifth rib. Another portion of lung also adhered between the third and fourth ribs, where probably the tug- iron had entered. On the right side, the lung adhered to the membrane between the ribs, to the extent of an inch and a half around its margin. The pericardium was almost entirely adherent to the heart, but not very firmly. The heart itself was larger than usual, and the cavity and fibres on the right side proportionally greater than on the left. Maiden observes, in regard to this case, and which the examination seems to bear out fully:—“ I have no hesitation in declaring my firm belief that the shaft, being small 1 at the top and of a wedge-like form, was forced between the ribs, on the left side, into and through the cavity of the thorax, under (behind) the sternum, and out between the ribs on the right side; not suddenly, but by several distinct movements, whence the lungs, large blood-vessels, &c., escaped injury.” (p. 32.) For the following case I am indebted to my friend Andrews, of the London Hospital, >• under whose care the man was. In this there can be no doubt that the left lung was i ' penetrated. Case 2.—J. T., aged nineteen years, a Prussian sailor, whilst engaged in lowering, the trysail-mast {a), the rope supporting it gave way, and he was transfixed by its bolt, 1 to the deck. At the time of the accident the mast had been lowered to within about six feet of the deck; the man raised his arms to lay hold of and guide the bolt into its proper place, when at the moment the suspending rope slipped or broke, and the mast dropping : perpendicularly, fell on his chest, knocked him down on his back, and the bolt passing through his chest, pinned him to the deck, which it penetrated to the depth of an inch, J so that his chest must have been compressed, from before backwards, to a space not ex- 1 ceeding four inches. Some time elapsed before the bolt could be drawn out, and he was f then carried to the hospital,— I Tbe trysail-mast, about thirty-five feet long, and two feet in circumference at the bottom, has at s tins part an iron bolt five and a half inches long, and two and a-half wide, by which it tits into the worn, with a collar above to prevent it entering further.