22 INFLAMMATION, 1. Inflammation (Infiammatio, Phlogosis, Lat.; Entziindung,Germ.; Inflammation, Fr.) is that condition of an organized part in which the vital process and plasticity of the blood are unnaturally raised, and which is manifested by pain, redness, increased temperature, and swelling. The elevation of the vital process must be of a certain duration and intensity, that is it must be actually diseased, when we apply to it the name Inflammation. Thereby, alone is inflammation distinguished from [the temporary condition of active congestion and increased turgor vitalis. The proximate cause of these phenomena is indeed the same as in inflammation, and may run into it. The same applies to the so-called inflammatory irritation. [The term “ inflammation ” has been objected to by Andral (a), one of the most able French writers on pathology. He says:—“ Created in the infancy of science, this ex- pression, (inflammation,) completely metaphorical, was destined to represent a morbid condition, in which parts seemed to burn, to inflame, as if they had been subjected to the action of fire. Received into the language, without any precise idea having ever been attached to it, under the triple relation of symptoms which announce it, of lesions which characterize it, and of its actual nature, the expression “ inflammation ” has become so vague, and its interpretation so arbitrary, that it has really lost all value: | it is like a piece of old money without the impress, which must be put out of circu- i lation, as it causes only error and confusion. Inflammation can only be considered i as the expression of a complex phenomenon, comprehending many other phenomena, \ the dependence of which is neither necessary nor constant.” (vol. i. p. 9.) He has, i therefore, chosen to set aside the term “ inflammation ” as generally characterizing the it phenomena we are about to consider, and has employed that of “ hypersemy,” re- stricting it, however, only to that condition of the vessels in which they are loaded or congested with blood, from whatever cause, healthy or unhealthy, such condition may ] arise. John Hunter(b) seems to have anticipated these objections; for, he observes:— “ The term or idea of inflammation may be too general, yet it is probable that it may l form a genus, in which there is a number of species, or it may be more confined in its i classification, and be reckoned a species containing several varieties. These are, how- .. ever, so connected among themselves, that we cannot justly understand any one of the 1 species or varieties without forming some idea of the whole, by which means, when treating of any one, we can better contrast it with the others, which gives us a clearer idea, both of the one we are treating of, and of the whole.” (p. 265.) The difficulty, | however, is to distinguish the onset of the diseased action, inflammation, from the natu- , ral one, congestion or turgescence. Their close resemblance was first pointed out by t Hunter, who observes :—“ The very first act of the vessels when the stimulus which ex- i cites inflammation is applied, is, I believe, exactly similar to a blush. It is, I believe, | simply an increase or distension beyond their natural (ordinary ?) size. This effect we it see takes place on many occasions: gentle friction on the skin produces it; gently stimu- it lating medicines have the same effect; a warm glow is the consequence similar to that i i of the cheek in a blush: and, if either of these be increased or continued, real inflamma- n tion will be the consequence.” (p. 279.) So Andral :—“ Will anatomy establish any line 4 of demarcation between physiological (healthy) and pathological congestion ? No more m than the latter can always be strictly separated from the complex phenomenon called i “ inflammation.” Thus, under the influence of violent emotion, vessels appear on the con- i junctive coat of the eye, and the lids become red. The same effect follows a grain of sand falling on the front of the eye; insensibly does the congestion increase from that almost | normal condition in which vessels appear on the conjunctive coat to that when the mu- i cous membrane of the eye, becoming uniformly red and considerably swelled, presents j| that variety of opthalmy known as chemosis.” (vol. i. p. 13.) The same language is held B by Muller (c) :—“ Inflammation begins, indeed, with phenomena which are similar tc 1 turgescence. The organs attract more blood than usual, in consequence of the altered 1 affinity between the blood and the tissue, and obstructs its efflux ; but we must be very fl cautious in calling increased vital action that important change caused by inflamma- ■ tory irritation which produces functional disturbance, and has consequent to it an eflorl $ of nature to compensate an injury which has interfered with the action of the organ, n Had the vital action been increased, so would not the morbid processes of inflammatior a have occurred.” (vol. i. p. 218.) Hunter also observes :—“ Though pure inflammation is dpi rather an effort of nature than a disease, yet it always implies disease or disturbance, inas- , (a) Precis d’Anatomie Pathologique. (b) On the Blood, Inflammation, &c. _(c) Ilandbuch der Physiologie des Menschen.