533 VERTEBRAE. arch of the fourth was broken in three places, and forced forwards on the spinal mar- row, which was crushed and lacerated. The left side of the arch of the fifth was likewise broken, and the spinous process of the third pressed down upon the fourth vertebra. This preparation is in St. Thomas’s Museum. Case 2. A man threw himself into a river to bathe, from a height of seven or eight feet, the water being only three feet deep. He came up to the surface and immediately fell back to the bottom. The bystanders observing he made no attempt to swim, drew him out and lifted him insensible upon the bank. Upon the arrival of the medical man he was found pulseless, but with priapism. By the use of ammonia he was revived, but his limbs were paralysed, and when admitted into the hospital an hour after, his body was cold, pulse scarcely perceptible, and the skin quite insensible, but he was perfectly sensible, complained of pain at the back of his neck, and could not move his head, which swayed about with its own weight, and was free from ache. He had great disposition to make water, but could not, and the introduction of the catheter was use- less, as the bladder contained none. He said, in reference to the accident, that at the moment when he struck the water he felt his hands touch the bottom of the river, and to save his head, drew it violently back, upon which he lost all consciousness. By rubbing and putting him in a warm bed, he raised himself and was a little able to move his limbs. But about three hours and a-half after his admission, fever with pro- fuse sweating came on and his pulse was stronger and quicker. He soon became de- lirious, uttered loud screams, and in ten hours and a-half from the accident died. On examination, the back of the neck was largely ecchymosed, the interspaces of the muscles were gorged with blood, and the vertebral canal filled with it. The body of the fifth neck vertebra was broken across above the middle of its depth, and the two pieces were completely separated from the lateral parts. Reveielon (a), who relates the case, thinks that as no contusion was apparent on the head, and that, as it was not even smeared with dirt, it could not have touched the bottom of the river, and therefore that the fracture must have been caused by muscular action. The fracture is, however, more commonly caused either by falling down head foremost, or by a heavy weight dropping from a height upon the top of the head. In either case, the muscles being unprepared for receiving the violence, the necessary bracing up of the spine is therefore deficient, and consequently the spinal column is either bent suddenly, violently, and excessively forward, and the force being transferred to one vertebra, the hinder edge of the bone is more or less.torn from the intervertebral substance, or the latter is at this part partially torn through, whilst the remainder still continues connecting the body of the vertebra with that of the vertebra immediately below, of which the fore and upper part is broken off obliquely downwards and forwards, and in this way the vertebra above the fracture, and with it the fractured upper part of the vertebra below, glide forward till the arch of the upper rests against the back of the body of the lower vertebra, and thus compresses the spinal cord. This compression is more complete if the capsules of the articular processes have been torn through, the processes themselves broken off, or the arch fractured, under which circumstances that part of the spine above the fracture slips further forward, and the spinal arch is more tightly pressed upon the spinal cord. The injury which the spinal cord suffers may be either—1, simple concussion; 2, simple compression by bone ; 3, extravasation of blood either without or within the sheath, or in both situations, and producing symptoms of compression ; 4, extravasation of blood on the exterior of the cord itself; 5, tearing of the cord to a greater or less extent, sometimes completely through; and either of these may or may not be accompanied with corresponding tearing of the sheath. There are not any peculiar symptoms which point out the extent of the mischief so as to assist in forming a diagnosis. The subsidence of the symptoms in a few days after the accident, in cases usually considered as concussion of the cord, is therefore no proof of such being really the case, as it may be possible that in slight extravasation of blood, which at first would produce symptoms, the spinal cord would probably accommodate itself to the pressure, and the symptoms subside under proper treatment, as is well known they do, and the patient completely recover, after apoplectic effusions in the brain. The dangerous circumstances connected with fracture of the spine do not depend on the fracture itself, but upon the injury which the cord sustains, and which is greater or less, according to the greater or less displacement forwards of the upper part of the spine beyond the lower. This displacement almost invariably accompanies the fracture, and varies according to the violent bending or blow which the spinal column suffers. I have known the upper vertebra, with the broken upper edge of that beneath it, projected scarcely a quarter of an inch; and I have known it thrown forward more (.«) Journal General de Medecine, See., xcviii. or xcvii of the Second Series. March, 1827.