ANALYTICAL INDEX. XC1X tion, ii. 45 ; South on the consequences of the constriction, and on violence in the application of the taxis, ii. 45; Key and South on the signs indicative of gangrene : of the intestine, ii. 45; Key and South’s l cases of gangrenous intestine, in which a i fetid smell was perceptible before the sac was opened, ii. 46 ; absence of the fetid smell not a certain sign of healthy intes- tine, ii. 46; Lawrence recommends open- : ing the sac, and dividing the stricture 1 from within, ii. 46; South on the division I of the stricture external to the sac, ii. 47 ; South on the treatment after the opera- tion, ii. 47 ; Luke's description of the operation for dividing the stricture ex- ternal to the sac, ii. 47 ; Luke on the diagnosis of the seat of stricture, ii. 47 ; Luke on the incision of the sac, or on j partial division of its neck in several places, when the stricture is caused by it, ii. 48; treatment after the operation, ii. 48; treatment when the symptoms of i strangulation persist after the operation, ii. 49 ; Key and South on suppuration of the sac, ii. 49 ; South’s case of extensive sloughing of the abdominal and lumbar I cellular tissue after the operation, ii. 49 ; treatment of sloughy intestine, ii. 49; formation of an artificial anus, ii. 49 ; ad- hesion of the gut to the mouth of the sac when sloughing takes place, ii. 49 ; Astley Cooper and Key’s cases of slough- ing of the intestine, after it had been re- turned into the abdomen, ii. 49 ; Rams- den’s case of fatal contraction and ulcera- tion of the intestine after strangulation, ii. 49; Key and South on the occurrence of gangrene in the intestine some days after the operation in persons of enfeebled con- stitution, ii. 50; Key on the fatal termi- nation of cases after the operation, when preceded by great depression of powers, i. 51 ; Astley Cooper’s case of tetanus after the operation, i. 51 ; tabular view of operations for strangulated rupture, ii. 50; inguinal rupture, ii. 54; situation and varieties, ii. 54; anatomy of the parts concerned, ii. 54; South’s descrip- tion of the fascia transversalis, ii. 55; external or oblique inguinal rupture, ii. 56 ; situation and direction, ii. 56; in- I ternal or direct inguinal rupture, ii. 57 ; situation and direction, ii. 57 ; diagnosis between these only possible when small and recent, ii. 57 ; coverings of the ex- ternal or oblique inguinal rupture, ii. 57 ; imperfect inguinal rupture, or rupture in the inguinal canal, ii. 57; situation and coverings, ii. 57 ; South on the coverings of this variety of rupture, ii. 57 ; cover- ings of the internal or direct inguinal rupture, ii. 57 ; comparative frequency of protrusion of the respective viscera, ii. 58 ; congenital inguinal rupture, ii. 58 ; causes, ii. 58 ; distinguished from external inguinal rupture, ii. 58; coverings of congenital inguinal rupture, ii. 59; nar- rowing of the hernial sac, ii. 59 ; con- genital inguinal hernia called by Astley Cooper encysted hernia of the tunica vaginalis, ii. 59; diagnosis of rupture from hydrocele, ii. 59 ; South on the dif- ficulty of diagnosis between rupture and hydrocele of the cord, ii. 60; South’s cases of hydrocele of the cord mistaken for rupture, ii. 60 ; complication of rup- ture with hydrocele, i. 61 ; Mr. T. Blizard and Cline’s jun. cases of hydro- cele in front of an inguinal rupture, ii. 61 ; diagnosis between rupture and vari- cocele, ii. 61 ; and inflammatory swelling of the spermatic cord, ii. 61; and the arrest and inflammation of the testicle in the inguinal canal, ii. 62 ; Key’s case of strangulated inguinal rupture, the tes- ticle being at the external ring, ii. 62 ; diagnosis between inguinal ruptures and fat-ruptures, ii. 62 ; collections of fat on the surface of the peritoneum, ii. 62 ; Pelletan on the mechanism of the fat- rupture, when it descends through the inguinal canal, ii. 62 ; diagnosis between inguinal rupture, and collections of pus passing through the inguinal canal out at the abdominal ring, ii. 63 ; return of the inguinal rupture, ii. 63 ; application of the truss, ii. 63 ; seat of strangulation, ii. 63 ; the operation for strangulated in- guinal rupture, ii. 63 ; important in old scrotal rupture on the right side, to ascer- tain whether the ccecurn or commence- ment of the colon be the protruded viscus, ii. 64; direction of the cut in dividing the stricture, ii. 64 ; South on the direc- tion of the cut in dividing the stricture, ii. 64 ; congenital inguinal rupture, ii. 64 ; process of the radical cure, ii 65 ; opera- tion for strangulated congenital inguinal rupture, ii. 65 ; the operation for inguinal rupture, without opening the sac, ii. 65 ; external inguinal rupture in women, ii. 65; Nuckand Cloquet on the diverticulum of the peritoneum, ii. 65 ; Allan Burns on the frequency of congenital rupture in the female, ii. 65; femoral rupture, ii. 66 ; situation and sub-divisions, ii. 66 ; Logier on oblique femoral rupture, ii. 66 ; ana- tomy of femoral rupture, ii. 66 ; South on the anatomy of femoral rupture, ii. 67 ; femoral rupture occurs more rarely than inguinal, and more frequently in women than in men, ii. 69 ; symptoms of femoral rupture, ii. 69 ; Astley Cooper and Cal- laway on the seat of femoral rupture, ii. 70 ; South on the diagnosis of femoral from inguinal rupture iu women, ii. 70; Astley Cooper and South on the presence