OBSERVATIONS ON SYPHILITIC SORES. 653 (p. G8.) These observations, on his own showing, seem to prove the needlessness of having recourse to the eruption as a nomenclator for his “ division of venereal com- plaints into four distinct diseasesbut, as if to put the question beyond dispute, he immediately proceeds to give the following brief description of the several ulcers and their consequent eruptions:—First, the ulcer without callosity, raised edges, or phage- dena, in fact without any very peculiar characters, and which may therefore be termed the simple venereal primary ulcer, produces the papular eruption, which ends in desquama- tion ; and the same effect is produced by a patchy excoriation of the plans and prepuce in men and of the labia and vagina in women, and also by a gonorrhoea virulenta. Second, the ulcer with raised edges produces the pustules which terminate in small ulcers covered with thin crusts, and which heal from their margins. Third, the phage- denic and sloughing ulcers produce the spots and tubercles which terminate in ulcers covered with thick crusts, which are accompanied with phagedena, and heal in general from their centre. Fourth and lastly, the primary callous ulcer or chancre is attended with the well known seal// eruption—lepra or psoriasis.” (pp. 68, 9.) Carmichael thus shows the grounds on which he had founded his opinion, that “ the difference which was found to exist in the appearance and progress of certain groups of symptoms which usually went together, compelled him to presume the existence of a plurality of venereal poisons.” (p. 48.) But subsequently he observes:—“ If any individual object to the division of venereal complaints into four distinct diseases, the difference between us is easily reconciled. Instead of four distinct diseases, let any one that pleases consider them as so many forms or modifications of the one disease, each requiring a peculiar mode of management, and under this view every practical object will be equally well obtained.” (p. 69.) The following excellent observations of Ricord, whilst explaining the causes on which the varied appearances of chancre or primary syphilitic sore depend, at the same time negatives the much-disputed question of the plurality of venereal poisons, of which Carmichael is the great supporter. “ Chancre,” says Ricord, “ the strict and inevitable consequence of the application of the syphilitic poison, either upon the skin or mucous membranes, in the condition requisite for inoculation, often presents such varieties, in its material aspect, that it then seems to constitute different diseases. These differences of chancre, badly understood or ill-appreciated, have afforded to some an argument against the identity of the venereal poison and its unity of action, and to others, the proof of the existence of a plurality of poison; but, if well studied in its cause, which always remains the same in its mode of development, and its consequences, in the ordinary and not complicated cases, the seem- ing differences are explained with ease, and all contradictions disappear; for whatever be the actual form of the chancre from whence the pus has been taken, provided it have reached that period which I have pointed out, a regular and characteristic pustule is, as I have said and proved, obtained, when the virulent pus is put beneath the epidermis or epithelium, a direct ulcer (ulcere d’emblee), when it is applied on naked tissues, or an abscess, when it is introduced into the cellular tissue, into a lymphatic or into a ganglion, always bearing in mind the difference arising from the seat and particular tissues affected, there is found in the ulcer, at its commencement, a regular and peculiar physiognomy, and that also whether it be consequence of the rupture of a pustule, of the opening of a virulent abscess of the cellular tissue or lymphatic passages, or whe- ther it have been produced direct. The deviations or special forms neither occur nor are developed, but after and under the influence of condition foreign to the specific cause, such as the peculiar constitution of the patient, his previous or concomitant ailments, his health, the general or local treatment to which he has been subjected. Thus is it that persons are affected with phagedenic chancres, who have contracted their malady from persons who, seemingly, had only benignant ulcers, and that this vulgar notion, participated in by some physicians, who conceive that a severe disease had been contracted from a very foul person, is found absolutely false.” (pp. 60, 61; Fr. Edit, p. 134-36.)] , Ingenious as are these distinctions, yet are they by no means confirmed by expe- rience; besides the circumstances already mentioned, on which the modifications of syphilis depend, there is still especially the proved fact against the admission of various syphilitic contagions, that frequently many persons are infected in different ways by one and the same person. But the principal ground of this (Abernethy’s division) that the syphilitic affection is cured only with mercury, but the pseudo-syphilitic without it, has, on the contrary, lost all weight, inasmuch as it is perfectly well known that all syphi- litic ulcers may be healed without mercury. If it may also to this be added, that as the result of congress of the sexes, affections