212 STRUCTURE OF SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE. membrane over the cartilage of joints, has been confirmed by Henle (a), who says:— “ The epithelial layer on the inner surface of the synovial membrane attains a thick- ness of 0,00(3'"—0,008"'. Many layers of cells are here observed piled on each other, and the outermost, viz. those next the free surface, are like those in the epidermis of the cutis and mucosa, broad, Hat, and of irregular form ; their nucleus is not always distinct. The round cells of the synovial membrane have, in the mean, a diameter of 0,004'"— 0,005'", and the oblong cells measure as much in their smallest diameter. The li- gaments and cartilages which pass through’the cavity of a joint, have a cover- ing of epithelium which is continued in a thin layer upon the joint surfaces of the cartilages, but separated from the cartilage corpuscles by a thin layer of cellular tis- sue.” (p. 11(3.) Toynbee (6) also states that, “ in a foetal calf, towards the latter part of uterine ex- istence, he had removed the synovial membrane from nearly the entire surface of the articular cartilage of the condyle of the femur, to which it was attached by a consider- able layer of cellular tissue in which the blood-vessels are seen to ramify.” (p. 1G7.) These are not, however, as he supposes, the branches of William Hunter’s circulus articuli vasculosus, which, as we shall hereafter see, are described by him “ as creeping around the cartilaginous brim, or under the cartilage,” for especial reasons ; but Toyn- bee himself properly describes them as “ the vessels of the synovial membrane which cover the articular cartilage,” and says that “ during foetal and infantile life, previous to the period when the articular cartilages are subject to pressure, the synovial vessels extend over certain portions of them, from which, in childhood and during adult age, owing to the functions of the joints, they are necessarily absent. At the period when the child begins to use the various joints, and subjects them to pressure, these vessels recede, and in adult life they are only found on that margin of articular cartilage which is exempt from the influence of external forces. The arteries which pass between the articular cartilage and the synovial membrane, like those of the foetus, may be consi- dered as the termination of the articular arteries. At the point where the reflexed be- come continuous with the articular synovial membrane, it contains large vessels subja- cent to it which are numerous and plexiform. Immediately, however, that they enter the cellular web, between the articular cartilage and synovial membrane, they become enlarged and straight, and pass to a greater or less distance over the border of the arti- cular cartilage, forming loops, frequently with considerable dilatations, and becoming finally continuous with the veins. The free surface of adult cartilage appears to be nourished by the liquor sanguinis which exudes from these looped and dilated vessels.” (pp. 172, 3.) I doubt the correctness of Toynbee’s statement of the recession of the vessels when the child begins to use his joints, and consider that the analogy with the conjunctive coat of the eyeball here also holds good, and, as there, under ordinary cir- cumstances, its vessels are not seen, as they then carry only colourless blood, yet under inflammation they appear numerous and loaded with red blood ; so also the same condition is that of the vessels of synovial membrane. Before concluding this short notice regard- ing the synovial membrane, I would mention Clopton Havers’ (c) opinion, that the “ soft parts, found in the sinuses of the bones within the joint, which to the touch seemed vesicular and spongious, and the membrane not only lax, but also unequal, with protuberances of a different figure and magnitude,” were, the latter, “ truly glandulous, and those soft bodies, glands.” He applied to them the name of “ gl an duke mucilaginosae, or the mucilaginous glands.” (pp. 188, 89.) After giving an account of their structure and vascularity, he speaks of their form as “ various, and accommodated to the sinus or cavity in which they are seated. Some are not only long but broad at their top, and grow narrow towards the top, so as to terminate in an edge; some have a broad basis, and rise into a sort of cone; some are like little ridges, some like a fimbria, some are broad and pretty flatand then observes on their situation, that “ in general they are so seated that they cannot be injured by a compression from the bones.” (pp. 193,4.) Goodsir(J), in referring to them, says:—“ I have been in the habit of considering the highly vascular fringes and processes of the synovial membranes as more active in the formation of epithelium, and therefore more closely allied to the secreting organs than other portions of these mem- branes. If this be the case, Clopton Havers was not mistaken in his ideas regarding the functions of these vascular fringes. They are situated where they cannot interfere (а) Ueber die Ausbreitung des Epithelium im Mensehlichen Korper; in Mu/.ler’s Archiv. 1838. (б) Researches tending to prove the non-vascu- larity and the peculiar uniform mode of organiza- tion and nutrition of certain animal tissues, viz. Articular Cartilage and the Cartilage of the dif- ferent classes of Fibro-Cartilage, &c., &c.; in Phil. Trans., 1841. (c) Osteologia Nova; or some New Observations of the Bones, &c. London, 1691. 8vo. (d) On the Structure of the Serous Membranes; in his Anatomical and Pathological Observations. Edinburgh, 1845. Svo.