PARALLEL EFFECTS OF HEAT AND COLD. 126 rare cases where the part is actually incinerated, is most commonly, and at once, superficial, even in burns which are always more severe than scalds. But mortification from severe cold is almost invariably of the whole mass affected, rarely seems to be produced imme- diately, at least not in this country, but requires the lapse of several hours for even its appearance, and many more before the whole extent of the injured part declares itself dead, the mortification, if of the extremity, commencing with the tips of the fingers and toes, and gradually creeping up so far as the vital powers have been either totally ex- tinguished, or have been so disturbed as to be unable to resolve the inflammation, depending on either the congestion of the vessels, or their acquired imperviousness, into the natural condition of the part.—J. F. S. Muller (a), in drawing a comparison of the effects of heat and cold on the body, ob- serves :—“ Both can produce as well a disturbance of the excitability as irritation, inflam- mation, and mortification. A sudden violent operation of cold upon warm animal parts acts destructively. An extremely cold state is painful, and then numb. In still greater degrees, mortification, local death ensues. In less degree cold, destroying by abstracting heat, produces symptoms of inflammation and irritation in the efforts made by the parts for restoration of their equilibrium. In a moderate degree cold operates momentarily as an excitant; thus, cold water at once reddens the skin, as I have myself experienced in bathing in the river in October; but this was only momentarily, and slight signs of internal disturbance from the abstraction of heat ensued. Cold water, also, in fevers, with a very hot, dry skin, acts often mediately as an enlivening stimulant, and produces that turgor on the skin which warmth excites in cold parks. The secondary effect of continued cold is always a disturbance of the nervous system. The gradual operation of cold up to a high degree throws man into a condition of seeming death, and hybernating animals into their winter sleep by withdrawing their irritability; whilst a great degree of warmth gradually, also, disturbs the functions of the nervous system, but probably by a change; and in sandy deserts, where there is at the same time want of water, produces asphyxia, and causes the summer sleep of amphibians, and of the tenrec in hot climates.” (vol. i. p. 86.) The length of time, during which a part remains cooled, has material influence in regard to its immediate mortification, its deferred mortification resulting from the degree of in- flammation excited by the cold, or simply to its inflammation which resolves without mortification. This is proved by Hunter’s experiments in freezing rabbits’ ears (6). In one case “ the ear remained in the mixture (of salt and ice) nearly an hour, in which time the part projecting into the vessel became stiff; when taken out, and cut into, it did not bleed; and a part being cut off by a pair of scissors, flew from between the blades like a hard chip. It soon after thawed, and began to bleed, and became very flaccid, so as to double up on itself, having lost its natural elasticity. When it had been out of the mixture nearly an hour it became warm, and this warmth increased to a considerable de- gree ; it also began to thicken in consequence of inflammation, whilst the other ear con- tinued of its usual temperature. On the day following, the frozen ear was still warm, and it retained its heat and thickness for many days after.” (p. 123.) 1 have already mentioned the case of sloughing of the scrotum following the continued use, for a few hours, of ice to further the reduction of a rupture. We have in St. Thomas’s Museum, also, the cast of a soldier whose scrotum having been frost-bitten in Flanders, during the campaign in 1793, under the Duke of York, both testicles, and a portion of the spermatic cord, were exposed, and long remained without skin, though completely covered with granulations. Actual frost is not absolutely necessary to produce mortification ; cold wet is quite suf- ficient if continued sufficiently long to reduce the natural heat of the part below a certain standard, and there retain it, as will be presently seen in a case of mortification of the hand from laying out hides, and this more especially when evaporation is going on quickly.—J. F. S. (2) The interesting account given by Sir Joseph Banks (c), of the sufferings of him- self, of Dr. Solander especially, and other of their companions, from exposure to cold is well known, and is quoted by Thompson, (p. 619,) who also mentions (p. 620) another remarkable case of Dr. Kellie’s, which had been previously reported (j).] 104. When a limb or active body becomes frozen, the living activity is depressed by the torpidity of the juices, a state of asphyxia is present, (a) Handbucll der Physiologic. (c) Captain Cook’s Voyages, vol. ii. Hawkes- (b) Observations on certain parts of the Animal worth’s Edition. (Economy. London, 1792. 4to. 2nd Edition. (d) Duncan’s Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal,vol. i. Edinburgh, 1803.