PROPER TIME FOR. 345 is in a quiet condition at the period of suppuration, at which time amputa- > tion should be immediately performed. | [Immediate amputation after severe gun-shot injuries has long been the practice of . English army and navy Surgeons, for it would seem in the way it is spoken of by Wise- man that even in his time it was a settled proceeding. He says:—“ Experience judgeth : it commendable, if it be necessary; and in such shattered limbs where there is no hope of preserving the patient’s life otherwise. And then it must be done in its proper time, that is to say, suddenly upon the receipt of the wound, before the patient’s spirits be l overheated, either with pain, fever, &c. * * * But amongst us aboard, in that (the naval) i service, it was counted a great shame to the chirurgeon if that operation was left to be i done the next day, when symptoms were upon the patient and he spent with watchings, &c. Therefore you are to consider well the members, and if you have no probable hope j of sanation, cut it off quickly, while the soldier is heated and in mettle. But if there be hopes of cure, proceed rationally to a right and methodical healing of such wound ; it being more for your credit to save one member than to cut off1 many.” (p. 396.) The celebrated French surgeon, Le Dran, who published on gun-shot wrounds a few years after Wiseman, also advocated the early amputation, and lays it down as a rule, “ that when the amputation of a limb is indispensably necessary, in the case of a gun-shot wound, it ought to be done without delay.” (p. 163.) Ranby, (a) who was serjeant-surgeon to George the Second, and whom he accompanied in the wars in Flanders, adhered to Wiseman’s practice, and says :—“ If a wound be of such a desperate nature as to require amputation, (which is always the case when it happens in any principal joint,) it would certainly be of consequence could the operation be performed on the spot, even in the field of battle ; lest, by deferring it, an inflam- mation may come on, which one may very reasonably expect should obstruct a work that ought rarely to be entered upon during the continuance of so calamitous a circum- stance. The neglecting this critical juncture of taking off a limb, frequently reduces the patient to so low a state, and subjects the blood and juices to such an alteration, as J. must unavoidably render the subsequent operation, if not entirely unsuccessful, at least - exceedingly dubious.” (p. 29.) It is probable that about this time some dispute had occurred as to the propriety of this practice; for, in 1756, the French Academy of Surgery proposed it as the subject for the prize essay in that year, and in consequence of the paper of Faure, an army Surgeon, to which they assigned the reward, they decided in favour of delaying the operation wherever practicable, although from the first it were absolutely necessary. Soon after, ' this, Bilguer, Surgeon-general to the Prussian army, wrote against amputation in gene- ral, and permitted no amputation in that service. But although his statements were “ much applauded, and in some countries held up as doctrines to be followed,” yet, from carefully sifting them, and from his own practical experience, Guthrie says, that t “ Bilguer on this subject ought never to be quoted as an authority for modern times.” ! p. 205.) But neither the recommendation of the French Academy nor Bilguer’s anathema I -eem to have had much influence on the medical officers of the British service, for Hunter says:—“ In general, surgeons have not endeavoured to delay it (amputation) till the patient has been housed and put in the way of cure; and therefore it has been a : common practice to amputate on the field of battle.” But to primary amputation Hunter was decidedly averse, for he proceeds :— “ Nothing can be more improper than this practice, for the following reasons. In such a situation it is almost impossible for a surgeon, in many instances to make himself sufficiently master of the case, so as to perform so capital an operation with propriety; and it admits of dispute, whether at any time and in any place amputation should be performed before the first inflammation is over. When a case is so violent as not to ad- mit of a cure in any situation, it is a chance if the patient will be able to bear the con- sequent inflammation, therefore, in such a case it might appear, at first sight, that the best practice would be to amputate at the very first; but if the patient is not able to ‘ suPP°rt the inflammation arising from the accident, it is more than probable that he | would not be able to support the amputation and its consequences; on the other hand, if the case is such as will admit of its being brought through the first inflammation, s ■ 0 The ^e*-hod of treating Gunshot Wounds. „v°. London, I774. To Ranby the profession of i urgery in this country is much indebted, ns it is i t)C ' l'lat ma*nlv by his interest and exertions 1 me burgeons were in 1745 (18 Geo. II.) separated from their connexion with the barbers, and esta- blished as a distinct corporation, of which he was the first master, although not a member of the old court, and probably not even a member of the Company of Barbers and Surgeons.