297 WOUNDED ARTERIES. ii the middle, and especially towards its end, and also in some larger or smaller roundish and irregular spots, of a lighter colour on the surface. Vessels shoot into it, which are distinguishable with a lens, and can be injected (Stilling, Blandin.) Hence the clot assumes the appearance of granulations, and has a fleshy colour. The union of the clot with the inner wall of the vessel proceeds correspondingly. The extremity of the vessel at last loses its texture, shrivels up in the clot, the plastic lymph, which had been poured out between the coats of the vessel, is absorbed, and the end of the vessel, with the contracted clot, forms a fibro-ligamentous mass which change takes place, in small vessels, in from twenty to twenty-two, and in large vessels in from forty to fifty days. Gradually, however, the extremity of the vessel, as well as the clot, become ab- sorbed up to the next collateral branch, and new tortuous vessels sprout from the vas- cular stump, as Jones, Ebel, and others, have observed. Compare Stilling (a). Such is the true description, obtained from careful observation, of the processes by which the stanching of blood is effected by nature. All the earlier writers on this sub- ject have directed their attention only to one or other of these processes. Thus, Petit (6) thought that a plug of coagulated blood was formed partly within and partly without the walls of the artery, which united with the inner surface of the artery, with its wounded edge, and with the surrounding parts. Morand (c) allowed, indeed, the blood- clot had some participation in stanching the blood; but he thought that the circular con- traction of the artery, by which its area is diminished, its retraction, and the consequent thickening, of its longitudinal fibres, were the most important means. Of the same opinion, also, were Sharp, Gooch, Kirkland, and others. Route a u (d) denied the im- portance of the blood-clot and the retraction of the artery; and asserted that the swelling of the cellular tissue, and the parts surrounding the wounded artery, opposed the greatest resistance to the out-pouring blood. John Bell (e) expresses the same opinion. See also Textor (/). ' Hummel (g) supposes that, besides the processes mentioned, (which he himself does not admit,) other circumstances participate in stanching the blood, which are founded in the autocrasy of nature, and, in this instance, on the laws of derivation. He points out three periods : 1. The coats of the vessels separate from each other, and, therefore, proportionally, the blood flows more quickly; 2. The flow of blood is diminished, deri- vation begins, the blood-corpuscles cease to flow where they are not wanted, and where they only become annihilated; 3. The blood coagulates, the derivation is perfected, the bleeding ceases. The shriveling up of the vessels he holds to be fictitious ! If such teleo- logical views have any real meaning, we must seek the causes of the turning back of the stream of blood, if the bleeding be of some duration, in the increased vicarious activity of the uninjured branches; and when the entire part is removed, we must seek the cause in the want of power to draw blood into the distant limb, and in the consequent dimi- nished flow of blood. . ' 278. Bleeding, in partial division of arteries, especially in transverse i wounds, is rarely stanched by nature. Their complete rupture is rarely fk accompanied with great loss of blood; their inner surface is torn, drawn together at several points, and they contain coagulated blood. In punc- tured wounds of arteries the blood rarely flows freely through tire external i opening of the wound, but pours out between the artery and its sheath, where it coagulates and blocks up the opening of the artery. This ■ closure continues for a shorter or a longer time, but, if the arterial wound be not closed by the process of adhesive inflammation, or, if the canal of the artery be not obliterated, yields to the pressure of the blood which pours from the wounded artery into its sheath, and dilates the latter into a circumscribed swelling, which gradually increases and pulsates, but the pulsation of which ceases, if the artery be compressed between it and the heart; and, if the pressure be continued sufficiently long, the swelling is immediately diminished, or it entirely disappears (Aneurysma spurium, 00 Die Bihlung und Metamorphose des Blut- propfes odor Thrombus in verletzen BlutgefiLssen. Eisenach, 1834. (fc) Memoires de l’Academie Rovale des Sciences, a.d. 1731-1733. (c) lb., a.d. 1736, p. 58. (d) Melanges de Chirurgie, Lyon, 1710, p. 299. (e) Principles of Surgery, vol. i. p. 179. (/) Grundziige 7,ur Lehre der chirurg. Opera- tionen. Wiirzb., 1835, p. 37. (</) Inaug. Abb. uber traumatische Gefassblu- tugen. Wurzburg, 1838.