NOMA. 62 generally in unhealthy subjects, yet the disease also occurred in robust well-fed children. In its idiopathic form it has been well described, by Drs. Evanson and Maunsell (a), as follows :—“A particular form of gangrene of the mouth, without any preceding inflammation, occasionally attacks infants, especially such as are feeble at birth or broken down by disease. An (edematous circumscribed swelling appears on the cheek, with a central point, more or less hard, over which occurs a dark-red spot. This spot may appear on the inside or outside of the cheek ; and the skin over the oedematous part is characterized by an oily appearance. An eschar forms from within outwards on the central point, and the soft parts mortify, often extensively, down to the bone, so that the parietes of the cheeks and gums are destroyed, falling off' in shreds, mixed with a dark sanguineous fluid, and accompanied by a very fetid odour.” (p. 214.) In neither of my cases, excepting the adult, did I witness the beginning of the disease; but gangrene to a greater or less extent of one cheek, involv- ing generally the corresponding half of the upper lip, existed when the children were brought to me ; the surrounding parts were tumid, hard, and of dull yellow-white hue, very similar to the characteristic colour of the countenance of patients under malignant disease. I have little doubt that the mortification of the mouth and fauces after measles, mentioned by Huxham (b), as well as those referred to by Maiishall Hall (c), and by him stated to have happened after previous disorder of the diges- tive organs, typhus fever, or some inflammatory disease, are of precisely the same character as those resulting from mercurial influence. The little patient, if not already in a typhoid state, soon falls into it, rapidly sinks as the gangrene spreads, and quickly dies; often, indeed, before the least' attempt at separation of the slough has been made. Usually three or four days are sufficient to destroy life ; but, in one instance, I recollect a child of two years old having lived for a fortnight, and the greater part of the gangrenous cheek had separated, leaving one side of the cavity of the mouth completely exposed. I fully agree with Evanson and Maunsell, that “ no disease can be more frightful or formidable than sloughing of the mouth in children. Recovery seems impossible, when once the disease*, has set severely in, the child sinking beneath the constitutional disturbance, i independent of the local ravages of the disorder, which, however, are often such as to render recovery not to be desired, so frightful is the deformity necessarily entailed.” (p. 215.) The term Cancrum oris has been loosely applied both to the diseas( < just mentioned, and also to another form of mortification commencing wit! ' ulceration, generally first in the gums, and thence spreading to the lips anc cheeks. This second form alone is considered by Dr. Cumming (d) to b< cancrum. He describes it as being either acute or chronic, and, if tin former, more liable to be accompanied with sloughing, but the ulcerativ< process predominates, and by it, principally, the destruction is effected. I < does not, according to this writer, attack children at the breast, nor unde I eighteen months, but occurs between twenty months and seven years. The following is a short account of the case of noma in the adult alluded t above:— R. I., a gunmaker by trade, was admitted under my care— (а) A Practical Treatise on the Management and (c) On a peculiar species of Gangrenous Ul« Diseases of Children. 2nd Edit. Dublin, 1838. which affects the Face in Children ; in Edinburg gv0 Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. xv. p. 547. (б) Reports, July, 1745. (<0 Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. iv. p. 18.