CONSEQUENCES. 179 expanded, reddened, and very painful, not unfrequently accompanied with fever, pain in the belly, disposition to vomit, with great weariness (1). The usual termination of this inflammation is resolution (2). Dropsy of the vaginal tunic often remains if the inflammation be improperly treated, or if it continue in a less degree for a long time (3). Suppuration is to be feared if in active inflammation the pain be throb- bing. The skin then rises and thins at different parts; it bursts, the pus is discharged, and oftentimes the convoluted vessels of the testicle project from the opening of the abscess, like grayish-white flocculent bodies, which draw out when pulled, so that in the end the albugineous tunic remains empty (4). Hardening is, on account of the peculiar condition of the testicle, no uncommon termination, specially if the treatment have not been exactly suitable, and scrofulous or gouty disposition be superadded. The bulk of the testicle is often distinctly increased by the hardening. Sometimes it confines itself merely to the epididymis, sometimes the whole testicle, and even a large or small part of the spermatic cord, is hardened (5). Gangrene is a very rare termination, and only from improper treat- ment. [(1) Astley Cooper observes:—“The first symptom of this disease, when it arises from sympathy with the urethra, is an irritation of the membranous or prostatic por- tion of their canal, as if some drops of urine still remained in the beginning of the ure- thra, and this is succeeded by a tenderness in the spermatic cord at the abdominal ring, and by swelling and pain in the epididymis. The testicle next swells. * * * The pain is obtuse, and more difficult to bear than that which is more acute, and it n resembles the suffering which is produced by squeezing the testicle; and, indeed arises from the same cause, for the glandular structure of the testis swells, whilst the [tunica albuginea, being tendinous and consequently inelastic, does not yield to - the swelling from within, but resists its increase and presses upon the sensitive in- ternal structure of the testicle, producing the dull, heavy, and aching pain of which j the patient complains. The pain and swelling extend along the spermatic cord into ; the inguinal canal, producing great uneasiness in the groin and in the spinous process of the ilium, the hip, and the inner part of the thigh on the affected side, and at length fixes itself more particularly in the loin; and this arises from the renal and lumbar i spermatic nerves having their principal origin from the renal and lumbar nerves. * * * The epididymis swells more in proportion than the testis, owing to its covering being less compact, and it remains longer swollen. Its two extremities, i. e. the globus major and minor are more affected than its body, and the swelling of the former is geue- ■ rally very perceptible before the spermatic cord.” (pp. 8-10.) Sometimes, though not very frequently, (for I have never observed it,) inflammation of the testicle, consequent on gonorrhoea, is immediately preceded by great irritation of the brain, which subsides on, or soon after, the appearance of the swelling. I am indebted to my intelligent friend Sams, of Lee, for the following Case.—A. B., aged 19 years, of strumous constitution, had gonorrhoea for six weeks, and, after the usual treatment with purgatives, nitrous aether, and copaiba, the discharge had nearly ceased for two or three days, when he was attacked with violent febrile ex- v citement, very quick pulse, and delirium, which continued forty-eight hours, towards P the latter part of which the testicle began to swell, and, as the size increased, the head f symptoms diminished and subsided. Leeches and other suitable treatment having been / employed, the swelling of the testicle declined, and the gonorrhoea returned, but gradually diminished, till there was not more than six or eight drops of discharge a day. He l then left the house, and took a walk, but soon had a recurrence of the febrile attack and head symptoms, which, however, went off again as the testicle again swelled, and that also subsided on the reappearance of the discharge from the urethra.—J. f. s. (2) In general, as the inflammation of the testicle subsides, if tbe gonorrhoea had stopped, it reappears. Hence some surgeons have proposed its restoration, to cure I (3) Adhesion and thickening of the tunica vaginalis is also a consequence of inflam- mation, and Astley Cooper observes that, “on examining the testicles which have felt N 2