TORSION 308 by pressure and cold lotions. Had the ligature been pulled about in the first instance, fatal bleeding would most probably have occurred, as it would have been impossible to have done other than tie the arteria innominata, a favourable result from which could scarcely be expected under the circumstances. What the actual condition of the artery was throughout the course, of the case was not ascertained, as the patient still lives, but it seems likely that it had assumed such a state as that which will be presently (p. 315) adverted to in some cases under the younger Cline. I believe the safest and best plan is, generally speaking, to leave the ligature to be ejected from the wound by the suppurating process. It should never be pulled vio- lently till some weeks after it has been applied; nor should it ever be jerked under the notion of favouring its abstraction. The degree of its fixity should be daily ascertained by steady and gentle pulling; if it yield, it may be presumed to have separated from the vessel, though such is not always the case, as a coil of the thread may have remained accidentally in the wound, and unwinds by the pull; but if the ligature continue to follow the draught upon it, usually it can be withdrawn. If it will not come out forthwith it must be left, and the same practice repeated daily till it does come out. Sometimes the thread has not ulcerated through the vessel, of which the obliteration is not completed in the usual time, and then, if the ligature be violently dragged, secondary bleeding will en- sue ; or the ligature may have separated, and its knot be entangled by the granulations around it. This obstacle is commonly soon overcome by absorption of the granulations between the knot and the skin, and may be usually waited for without inconvenience to the patient. It must not therefore be supposed that if the ligature do not come away, it is necessarily still around the artery, which is generally not the case. Some surgeons, when a ligature has been long retained, pass a probe by its side, as low as it will descend, and then twist thread and probe round till both come away to- gether. But I prefer the younger Cline’s practice of putting a thin whalebone spring upon the thread, the constant pull of which upon the knot makes it press against the obstacle which prevents its coming away, and produces ulceration, which sets it free often in the course of the day ; but if not, the thread must be daily twisted on the spring, so as to keep it tight till it comes away. Another method is to roll the thread close up to the wound, on a bit of bougie or wood, and prevent its uncoiling by fixing it with ad- hesive plaster, but the former plan is preferable.—J. F. S.] 294. Torsion, or the twisting of arteries, ( Torsio Arteriarum,) dis- tinctly mentioned of old by Galen («), has, in modern times, been pro- posed, and proved by experiments on animals, by Amussat (b) and Thierry (e), as a safe mode of stanching the bleeding from arteries. Liber (d) has repeated the same experiments in Germany. Velpeau first used torsion on the human subject. Amussat, Fiucke, Dieffen- bach, and others, have made numerous experiments of the kind (e). 295. The changes produced by the torsion of arteries are, 1st, the inner and middle coats of the arteries are circularly divided or torn for some lines above the opening of the vessel, they approximate and shrink away from the cellular coat, and, by retracting into the canal, form a blind sac or valve, which may be called the inner valve ; 2nd, an external valve (like a monk’s hood) is formed out of the above-named cellular coat, which completely closes the mouth of the artery ; 3rd, a blood-clot is invariably formed, which fills up the cavity of the artery ; 4th, inflammation and plastic exudation taking place in the torn inner and middle arterial coats, closing the mouth of the artery, and its walls which touch eacli other be- come united ; 5th, suppuration and ulceration may, indeed, occur in the arteries in question, but hitherto they have not been noticed, neither are they, in any case, necessarily connected therewith; 6th, the canal of the (a) Gai.en (Meth. Medic, lib. v. cap. iii. p.318. Edit. Kuhn) says, on this point: xai tronga % a.ornpt'a. U‘ /u.lra, rcct/rtu 'bia.vrxipu; ayxUpop <Lvtt.runrttJ n xai mpsTtetpiru fttrtfwf. (b) Archives Generates de Medecine, vol. xx. Aug. 1829, p- 606. (c) De la Torsion des Arteres. Paris, 1829. (d) Hecker’s Annalen, vol. xv. p. 185-196. Feb. 18 ,0. (e) Schrader, Dissert, de Torsione Arteriarum. Berol., 1830. 8vo.—Velpeau, Memoire sur la Ces- sation spontanee des Hemorrhagiestraumatiques et les moyens, qui dansquelques cas pourraient servir des succedanes a la ligature des arteres ; in the Ga- zette Medicate, vol. i. No. 48. Nov. 1830.