229 CARTILAGE. Bkodie, however, holds there is “sufficient to prove that the articular cartilages may be absorbed or ulcerated from the action of their own vessels, and that the ulceration may be<dn, and frequently does begin, on that surface which is towards the articular cavity. At°the same time it is to be observed that in many instances the ulceration begins in another situation, and I have frequently seen the cartilage abraded where it had been in contact with the bone, while on the surface, towards the cavity of the joint, it re- mained smooth and perfect. Under these circumstances the space formed by the ab- sorption of the cartilage becomes filled up by a vascular substance resembling granula- tions, and uniting the bone and cartilage to each other. In whatever way the ulcera- tion of the articular cartilages is produced there is this remarkable difference between it and the ulceration of soft parts : suppuration seldom hikes place while the ulcer of the cartilage is small, and often the disease proceeds so far as to cause caries of the bones to a great extent without matter being formed in the joint. This circumstance is deserving of notice. It has long been established, that suppuration may take place without ulceration, and it appears that, in this instance, ulceration occurs without the formation of pus.” (pp. 110, 17.) Lawrence (a) also says, that “ ulceration of cartilage” not only takes place from other causes, but “ as an original affection of the joints. Without any disease of the synovial membrane, without the occurrence of any accident or injury, it may commence as a primary or original affection of the joint itself. The ulceration is attended with two circumstances which are very different from those we observe in ulceration of other structures. There is no formation of pus, nor do we ever find granulations produced from diseased cartilages—no attempt at reproduction of the cartilaginous structure. Although ulceration of the cartilages may be in the first instance limited to the cartila- ginous structure itself, yet it soon involves other parts of the joint. It extends in the first place to the bony articular extremities, which become ulcerated, and are, in common language, rendered carious: the synovial membrane and external soft parts about the joint become inflamed: small abscesses form and break externally; a succession of these takes place in various parts of the joint, and a number of fistulous openings are established about the joint, giving place to matter, and, in many cases, to carious portions of bone. The ulcerative process often extends to the ligaments that connect the articulations; the consequence of which is, that the bones are no longer retained in their relative positions, but are thrown into certain unnatural directions by the action of the strong muscles of the limb.” (p. 483.) According to Key’s views, the ulceration of cartilages, commonly so called, depends on four conditions, in three of which “ the cartilage,” he says (b), “ is not absorbed per se, but through the agency of a structure, probably evolved for the special purpose of completing that process,” and the fourth is “ the result of disorganization of texture.” The first two forms, viz., “ the loss of articular cartilage that attends upon the chronic inflammation of the synovial membrane, and the more active destruction of the articular cartilage that attends acute inflammation of the joint,” appear to me simply modifica- tions of the same process by the degree of the inflammatory action, and, therefore, to be considered as one form, either in its chronic or acute stage, as may be, the result of which is the production of a vascular and absorbing membrane from the synovial membrane. The next is “ the absorption of cartilage that accompanies strumous disease of the cancellated structure of bone,” or that condition mentioned by Brodie, in which “ the cancellous structure of the bones is the part primarily affected; in consequence of which ulceration takes place in the cartilages covering their articulating surfaces.” (p. 226.) The consideration of this form must be deferred to Inflammation of the Joint- ends of Bones, (par. 221-24.) The last condition, much less frequent, is that in which Key says, “ that structure (cartilage) appears to undergo a change in its organization, independent of foreign agency. * * * An action altogether different from absorption, and analagous to the softening of the intervertebral substance.” To which he applies the term “ disintegration, in contradistinction to absorption, the one being a loss of sub- stance from an absorbing action, the other being the result of a disorganization of tex- ture. It is the primary ulceration of cartilage described by authors.” (pp. 134, 35.) yf ^ie absorption of cartilaue by a new membrane produced by inflammation of the sjnovial membrane, (c) thus speaks:—“ In a manner analogous, in many respects, to the process Ki ey ' ' . i c 1 J —~ ~ —-7 — I ot removing dead bone, does nature achieve the task of absorbing the cartilaginous structure covering the articular extremities of bones. These structures possess but _ (a) Lectures in Lancet, i vi , , lcr Remarks on the Ulcerative Process ; (c) On the Ulcerative Process in Joints; in Med.- Meu.-Unir. Trans., vol. xix. Cliir. Trans., vol. xviii.