COLD ABSCESS. 46 privation for some little time before his admission, I kept him in the house for charity’s sake, though I suspected he was feigning illness. He, however, grew worse, had a hot skin, with much perspiration, loss of appetite, pains in his joints ; and, again complain- ing of difficulty in passing his water, which was not, however, caused by any stricture 1 considered therefore his case to be medical, and, on September 3rd. He was transferred to Dr. Burton’s care, who treated him with sul- phate of quinine and citrate of iron, with a colocynth and calomel pill occasionally. He continued growing worse, and, on September 10th. I was requested to see him again, when he still complained of diffi- culty in voiding his urine, and had a largely diffused swelling extending over the whole right inguinal region, without redness, with little pain, but with distinct fluctuation, and extending down behind the right spermatic cord into the scrotum, which was so little protruded that the swelling there was only accidentally discovered. The swelling in the groin, which was only noticed yesterday or the day before, is quite subcutaneous. I made a puncture a little above the middle of Poupart’s ligament, and drew off a pint of healthy, sweet-smelling pus, and the swelling in the purse subsided as it flowed. Haifa grain of acetate of morphia nightly was ordered, to give him rest, which he much needed. On the following day he was better, and a mutton chop with porter daily was ordered. September 13th. There is little discharge from the puncture; but he now points to another subcutaneous abscess without redness and with little pain, beneath the spongy body of the penis, which was opened, and a table spoonful of good pus voided. He complains of much tenderness in the left knee, to which bran poultice was ordered. September 14th. But little discharge from either opening. Since yesterday a large diffused swelling has presented on the left side of the chest, below the arm-pit, without redness, but tender and with indistinct fluctuation. September 16th. The abscess just mentioned was opened, and four ounces of good pus discharged. He now points to another diffused swelling, without redness, on the front of the right shoulder, which fluctuates indistinctly. There is but little discharge from the groin. For the last two days he has been taking ammoniated citrate of iron, five grains, with a drachm of compound spirit of ammonia in infusion of quassia thrice a day. I ordered him, in addition, half a pint of port wine, as he sweats very profusely, has a quick, feeble pulse, and is very weak and thirsty". September 17th. The abscess on the shoulder was punctured, and about an ounce of pus discharged. The sweating still continuing, he was ordered to take of dilute nitric acid ten drops in infusion of roses, thrice a day". On the following day. being nauseated and a little sick, a draught of peppermint water with a drachm of sulphuric aether was ordered, but it did not do him much good, and, on September 19th. He was ordered, instead, five minims of dilute hydrocyanic acid in water, a mustard poultice to the region of the stomach, and four ounces of brandy daily, instead of the wine. The abscesses on the shoulder and chest discharge freely; but those below are healed. September 27th. On the whole, somewhat better; but the discharge is still very profuse. There is now much fluid in the mucous bag behind the insertion of the m. rectus femoris, and the knee is very tender: the bran poultice was discontinued, and a blister ordered, with a poultice afterwards. October 8th. Has not materially improved, and is now attacked with diarrhoea. Or- dered fifteen minims of nitro-muriatic acid three times a day. October 9th. The diarrhoea continues, and is now accompanied with sickness. The acid to be left off, and in its stead fifteen grains of carbonate of potass, with compound tragacanth and acacian gum powder in clove water, with compound spirits of ammonia and tincture of cardamoms, every four hours. October 21st. On the whole, better; but little discharge from the abscesses; the knee unimproved. October 28th. Another blister applied to the knee. November 2nd. The knee considerably swollen and painful; an issue to be put in above and below the joint. Having got into a very awkward and uneasy posture, his left leg being laid completely on the outside, and not moveable without great pain, I thought it advisable to get the limb on an amesburg, and gradually from day to day to raise it up till on the heel. This was effected in the course of a few days, and rendered him much more comfortable, and the knee diminished in size, as the issues began to discharge. He never, however, rallied, but gradually continued drooping, became very excitable and so weak that hf 1 continually passed his motions beneath him. A patient’s death near him had very niuct