805 OF TIIE KNEE-JOINT. dislocation outwards the prominence of the inner condyle is felt through the skin, and upon the outer condyle, and if the dislocation be complete on its outside, a considerable swelling is produced by the knee-cap. In dis- location inwards, the outer condy leis felt and the prominence of the knee- cap on the inner condyle. This dislocation is nearly always incomplete. Coze’s observation of a dislocation of the knee-cap, in which it was half twisted round itself, has been denied (a). Wolf (b) has noticed a complete twisting round of the knee-cap. 10S4. The causes of dislocation of the knee-cap are mostly, external violence acting on the bone in moderate bending, or complete straightening of the leg, and after driving it to one or other side. Also any circumstance by which the foot is turned outwards whilst the knee turns in, may produce this dislocation. If the ligaments of the knee-cap be very relaxed, or the condyles of the thigh little prominent, this dislocation may be pro- duced by slight causes. In general, dislocations of the knee are not dangerous; but when the violence producing them acts very severely upon the knee-joint serious symptoms may be caused by the contusion. 1085. In reducing this dislocation, which cannot always be effected at the first attempt, the patient should be laid upon his back, the leg straight- ened as much as possible, and the thigh bent at the hip-joint, the knee-cap is then to be pressed directly forwards, and when its great ridge is lifted over the edge of the condyle, it is drawn into place by the action of the muscles. The knee should be enveloped in cloths dipped in a dispersing wash ; and the patient kept quiet in bed till the pain and swelling have ceased. Should the knee-cap be disposed again to be dislocated, the knee must be supported by means of an elastic knee-bandage. I have seen a congenital dislocation of the knee-cap on both sides, in an aged man. The knee-cap rested entirely on the outer side, so that the middle of the knee-joint was completely void. The knee-cap was so movable, that in the straight position of the leg it could easily be brought to its proper situation, but on the slightest movement was again displaced. Both knees were very much twisted inwards, the legs and feet very much outwards. The man’s gait was very difficult and unsteady. Palletta (c) has examined a case of congenital dislocation of the knee-cap. XII.—OF DISLOCATION OF THE KNEE-JOINT. (Luxatio Genu, Lat,; Verrenkung des Kniees, Germ.; Luxation de Genou, Fr.) VON Siebold’s Chiron., vol. i. p. 33. Boyer, above cited, vol. iv. p. 365. Cooper, A., above cited, p. 184. 1086. Dislocations of the knee are rare, on account of the great strength of the joint. The shin-bone may, however, be displaced forwards, back- wards, and to one side or other from the joint-surfaces of the thigh-bone. These displacements are mostly incomplete. The ligaments and tendons which strengthen the knee are always in these dislocations, either much torn or much stretched ; even the vessels and nerves may be torn, or the joint-ends of the bones thrust out through the skin. These dislocations cannot be mistaken, on account of the projections which the shin-bone and condyles of the thigh form in opposite directions. (a) Mem. de la Societe d’Emulation. Paris, (b) Rust’s Magazin, vol. xxvii. p. 4/6 182G, vol. xviii. (c) Exercitationes Pathological, p. 91.