AND BREAST-BONES. 545 (2) A very remarkable case of fracture of the hauuch-bone, which was followed by abscess in the perineum and extensive urinary fistulae, but which recovered after eighteen months, is related by Houston (a). 622. If fracture of the pelvic bones be accompanied with displacement, nothing can be done except putting the patient in such position that the muscles inserted into the pelvis should be at rest; a broad band must be applied around the pelvis, and the patient recommended to keep quiet. The accompanying symptoms of inflammation or injury of the spinal marrow require the same treatment as in fracture of the vertebra. If the broken pelvic bones be displaced, it must be attempted to return them to their proper place, as in fracture of the share and haunch-bone, by the introduction of the finger into the vagina or into the rectum. If by splintering of the bones the bladder be injured, and the urine extravas- ated, its further extension must be prevented by incision and by the intro- duction of the catheter. [As I have already mentioned, displacement in fracture of either of the pelvic bones rarely occurs, and, therefore, introducing the finger into the rectum or vagina is not generally requisite.—J. F. S.j VIII.-OF FRACTURE OF THE BREAST-BONE. (Fractura Sterni, Lat.; Bruch des Brustbeines, Germ.; Fracture du Sternum, Fr.) 623. Fracture of the Breast-bone is rare, on account of its elastic con- nexion with the ribs, and on account of its sponginess. It is either consequent to severe violence which immediately strikes the breast-bone, or on violent bending backwards of the body (b). Its direction is generally transverse, more or less oblique, or the bone is broken into different pieces. The broken ends may be driven inwards by the violence which has caused the fracture, or the lower end, which is more raised in the motions of the chest than the upper, lies over it. From this displacement, as well as from the effect of the violence, the organs of the cavity of the chest may be variously wounded, inflammation of the lungs and of the pleura, spitting of blood, collections of blood in the mediastina, and subsequently suppuration in the breast-bone itself, or beneath it, may be produced. 624. The diagnosis is never difficult, on account of the superficial position of the breast-bone. If accompanied with displacement of the fractured pieces, it is easily discovered by examination; in fractures without displacement an unusual movement of the breast-bone is always observed in breathing, and crepitation, which the patient himself also perceives. A fixed pain is at the same time felt in the breast-bone, which increases on breathing ; and there is much accompanying oppression, cough, spitting of blood, palpitation, and so on. 625. If the fractured ends be not displaced, a compress dipped in a dispersing lotion is to be applied on the seat of the fracture, and the motions of the chest prevented by a tightly applied breast-bandage. The patient must be kept quiet, with his chest a little raised and his head bent forwards. If the ends of the fracture be separated, they must be put right (a) Case of Fracture of the Pelvis attended with Medical and Chemical Science, vol. viii. p. 11. sloughing of the urethra and singularly extensive 183d. urinary fistulae, cured by operation after the lapse (6) Chaussier; in Revue Mcdicale,Nov. 1827. of one year and a half; in Dublin Journal of VOL. I. 2 N