TREPHINING. 421 » ■ beyond the plane of the trephine, and its point being placed on the skull is made to descend into its substance by alternate contrary turns of the handle of the instrument, till the toothed edge of the crown, which moves round it, begins to bite and cuts a track for itself sufficiently deep to prevent its slipping out, when the pivot is retracted into the stem of the instrument, which is necessary, as it being longer than the crown of the trephine, it would penetrate the skull before the crown of the trephine, and make a wound in the dura mater and brain, an accident which, from gross carelessness on the part of the operator, I have once witnessed. As soon as the trephine has worked a track sufficient to retain it in place, an examin- ation of the track should be made with a thin-eyed probe to ascertain whether the skull be penetrated, and at what points. This is a most important step in the operation, for as in adults the thickness of the skull varies considerably in different individuals, and even in different parts of the skull in the same individual, and as in elderly persons it is often thin, and in children always thin, and still thinner the younger the child is, so unless the depth of the trephine-cut through the skull be ascertained, the bone may be cut through at one or other part of the trephine-track, and the membranes below seriously torn, or even cut through, and the brain itself injured. In proportion as the trephine-crown descends into the bone, the pressure made on its handle in working it, is to be diminished, or otherwise the Surgeon will, to his dismay, and the great danger of his patient, find the crown suddenly descend, all resistance cease, and that the dura mater and brain are torn. This too I have seen happen. It must, therefore, be remem- bered that in both young and old persons, and in the former especially, the trephine is to be handled with only sufficient pressure to make its crown cut. When the crown is found to have descended so low that there is reasonable expecta- tion that the internal table of the skull is on the point of being cut through, or when, by examination with the probe, it is found to have been cut through at one or more points, the edge of the elevator is to be carefully introduced into the trephine track, and the piece of bone included within the latter gently prised up, which is easily done if the remainder of the unsawn inner table be very thin, and it then yields with a crack and is lifted out. If, however, the remaining unsawn part will not yield, the trephine must be again applied with a light hand, and the examination with the probe repeated. If the bone be sawn through at one part of the track, but the other part will not break with such justifiable force as can be applied with the elevator, the sawing must be re- sumed, but with the trephine tilted, so that it shall act only on the part not cut through; and this is to be repeated again and again, with intermediate examination with the probe and repeated attempts with the elevator, till the trephined piece of bone can be separated. In adults the detached bone is generally lifted off the dura mater without difficulty, and always easily if blood or pus be poured out between that membrane and the skull. But in young persons, and children especially, this is not the case, for the numerous vessels at that age passing through the skull bones, from the dura mater to the per icranium, and in the contrary direction, hold it, like hooks, very tightly, and offer so great a re- sistance to its removal as often to lead to the supposition that the separation from the adjoining bone is not complete. This is a very important point, and cannot be too care- fully remembered. It must also not be forgotten that, in operating for depressed fractures of the'skull, the trephine is applied not on the depressed portion of bone, but on the neighbouring part, which retains its natural place, to form an opening through which an elevator may be introduced beneath the depressed portion, for the purpose either of raising it to its pro- per level, and relieving the brain from pressure, or for taking it entirely away, if it be detached as well as driven in. Therefore the operation is not concluded by removing the trephined piece, but only the preliminary step taken to the actual object of the opera- tion, to wit, the raising of the depressed bone, which is to be done by carefully passing the elevator through the trepan hole, and insinuating it between the dura mater and the depressed piece ; which done, either the finger of the left hand or the edge of the trepan hole is to be made the fulcrum on which the elevator rests, whilst its handle beimr de- pressed, the point rises and lifts up with it the depressed bone to its proper level. If> after thus doing, the fractured bone be only loosely connected or entirely detached, or if several pieces be broken and thrust in the dura mater and brain, it is best to re- move them either with the elevator alone, or with a pair of forceps, as may be most convenient.—J. F. S.] 442. In cases in which the pyramid cannot be at first used to direct the crown, as when balls are driven in, or pieces of bone entirely broken off,