508 TREATMENT OF lotion is commonly laid over the limb, and may, perhaps, tend to diminish the effusion and check the action of the vessels of the part; but if there he not much disposition to swelling or pain, it is of little consequence, except to satisfy the patient’s mind that something is being done for his relief. Generally, bleeding in town practice is totally inadmissible, and I much doubt its needfulness under any circumstances. Local bleeding with leeches is now and then required, but in general rarely called for, and I think best left alone; for after the lapse of a few days all the powers of the constitution, and of the part itself especially, are required for the reparation of the injury, and therefore should not be uselessly diminished. In cases of fractured collar-bone, or of oblique fractures, something must be done at once, to counteract the muscular contraction, which tends to thrust the bone among the muscles or against the skin, and even to pierce it. But even under these circumstances, the object is not to set the fracture, but simply to quiet the muscles, and to arrest the irritation they excite by their continual forcing the ends of the fracture into themselves, and thereby increasing the disposition to that unsatisfactory proceeding, and worrying the patient’s feelings. In these cases, therefore, extension should be employed, as Ciikuius advises; but nothing in the way of setting the fracture should be attempted till the swelling have subsided. Sometimes in oblique fracture position will be sufficient to allay these inconveniences without extension, but not always the same position. Two persons may seem to have a precisely similar oblique fracture, but in one the spasm will only be checked by the straight posture of the limb, whilst in the other this can only be effected if the limb be bent. The decision of these points must depend on the circum- stances of each case, and upon the judgment of the Surgeon, but they are of the greatest importance to the patient, and must not on any account be overlooked. In the employment of extension, any special apparatus is rarely required. A bandage fastened around the joint below the fracture, with a weight attached to its end and slung over the side or foot of the bed, is usually sufficient. Nor is a very heavy weight requisite ; three or four pounds, or a brick, is amply sufficient for the purpose, as after a few hours the muscles soon tire of dragging at even so slight a weight, and, ceasing to act, no longer force the fractured ends of the bone into themselves, and the fracture drops into place. Should the bowels be loaded, it is advisable that they should be cleared by a gentle dose of castor oil before the fracture is set. But when the setting has been perfected, it is best that they should be unmoved for several days, so that the fracture may not be disturbed by the patient’s movements. If, however, he should become uneasy and feverish, they must be looked to, and relieved with as little disturbance of the limb as possible.—J. F. S.] 588. Little important as are the symptoms which generally occur in Simple Fractures, yet may they be very serious in Compound Fractures (1). If considerable bruising or division of the soft parts be connected with fracture, the inflammation is always very great, and requires strict anti- phlogistic treatment, blood-letting, leeches (2), cold applications, and so on, together with the simultaneous use of opium, if very severe pain and other nervous symptoms be present (3). In very great swelling and ten- sion soothing applications should be employed (4). The wounds accompanying fractures are either consequent on the ex- ternal violence, or on the bony pieces being driven through the soft parts. In the former case the setting is usually not connected with any particular difficulty, and the wound may be brought together with sticking plaster, even although its state be such as to give little expectation of its being followed by quick union. In the latter case the difficulty of setting de- pends on the size of the wound, and on the projection of the pieces of bones, as well as on their direction. The wound is to be enlarged, if the piece of bone be firmly girt by it (5) ; the extension is always to be made in the direction of the protruded bone, till the broken ends no longer overlap, and then the limb is to be put in its straight position. If the fracture cannot be set in this way, it is necessary to saw off the protruding pieces of bone (6). Splinters, if quite loose, must be removed ; those