URINARY FISTULA. 737 dividing the sphincter,’’ he elsewhere observes (a), “is not very painful, except in those cases where the disease is complicated with ulcer at the back of the rectum ; neither is there ever any haemorrhage of consequence, as the pressure of the finger or a plug of lint will command it. The relief is immediate, and the very next time that the patient has an evacuation, there is an end of all the pain and difficulty which she suffered before. It is better, however, that she should not have an evacuation immediately after the operation, and, therefore, I generally give her an active purgative on the preceding day, and some opium afterwards, to keep the bowels constipated. After two or three days, castor oil may be exhibited and the bowels opened. The wound requires very simple treatment; a little dressing of lint may be applied to it till it is cicatrized, and cicatrization is generally completed in about three weeks. No inconvenience whatever follows the division of the sphincter muscle, except it be made, as I have mentioned, in the female, in the direction forwards. The patient retains \iev faces as well as ever, and yet the difficulty of voiding them is relieved.” (p. 27.)] E.—OF URINARY FISTULA. (Fistula Urinaria, Lat.; Urinfistel, Germ.; Fistule Urinaire, Fr.) Desault, Giuvres Chirurgicales, vol. iii. p. 287. Howship, A Practical Treatise on the symptoms, causes, &c. of the most important Complaints that affect the secretion and excretion of the Urine. London, 1823. 8vo. Chopart, Traite des Maladies des Voies Urinaires. Nouv. Edit, par Felix Pascal, Paris, 1824, vol. ii. p. 269. Bell, Charles, above cited. Brodie, Sir Benjamin, Clinical Lecture on Perinaeal Fistula; in Medical Gazette, vol. xvii. 1836. 943. Under the term Urinary Fistulas, strictly, are understood, long and narrow idcers opening in any part of the urinary passages; fistulous sores, however, in their neighbourhood are included under the same head. Urinary, like rectal, fistulas are therefore distinguished into complete and incomplete, according as they have an internal aperture communicating with the urinary passage, and an external opening, or the latter only. The incomplete urinary fistulas are either incomplete internal, or incom- plete external. 944. The external opening of urinary fistula may be situated either in the perinceum, scrotum,penis, buttocks, thighs, loins, belly, in the vagina or in the rectum ; as the internal opening may be connected with the kidney, ureter, bladder, or urethra. The direction of fistulous passage is mostly curved, several passages often run into one and the same opening ; but rarely do several external apertures lead to as many internal. Usually the walls of the fistulous passages are very hard and the callosities wide-spread. 945. The incomplete external or false urinary fistula (Fistula uri- naria incompleta externa, seu spuria) occurs mostly in the neighbourhood of the urethra, after abscess or ulcer, in which pus has collected and bur- rowing in different directions, has destroyed the cellular tissue surround- ing the urethra or bladder, and produced a sinuous ulcer which resists the healing powers of nature. They may be connected with hardening, with caries of the pelvic bones, and the like. Besides the preceding ap- pearances, they are characterized by no urine escaping from them nor any pus from the urethra, and by the probe used in examining them pene- trating neither into the urethra nor bladder, nor touching a catheter intro- duced into the latter. 946. The incomplete internal urinary fistula (Fistula urinaria incom- (a) Med. Gazette, vol. xvi. 3 B VOL. I.