201 INFLAMMATION, &c., OF NAIL MATRIX. nail on that side where the disease exists, and then with a pair of forceps turning back and completely removing the divided portion. This is a very painful operation certainly ; but I have known persons get well by this treatment in ten days, where the complaint had for months resisted every other. The applications to be used after the operation are of little importance; poultices are the best, and these will be required but for a very limited period, for the irritating cause having been removed, the fungus will soon dis- appear.” (pp. 192, 3.) Nearly the same plan was follow ed by Dupuytken, as above described. I entirely concur, however, with the observations made by Coi.les on this point. He gayS •—“ This operation inflicts a great degree of suffering, because in this disease the nail is not, as in onychia, separated from the vascular and highly sensitive matrix, except only through a small extent of space, not more than a quarter of an inch at its external angle, and, therefore, the scissors pushed upwards between the nail and the adherent matrix, and the forcible evulsion of the former by the forceps, must cause exquisite pain, which, though of short duration, can be regarded as nothing short of actual torture. * * * I am by no means an advocate for this peculiarly painful and distressing operation, but, on the contrary, I believe we may be relieved from the necessity of performing it, and that we can, in all instances, effect a permanent cure by a very simple operation, and one comparatively free from suffering; namely, by confining the excision of the nail to so much only as is already detached from the matrix ; all of this portion, as well as that imbedded in the fungus, must be removed.” His operation consists in having the fungus pressed down wfith a spatula, and the edge of the portion of nail to be removed seized with strong flat-blade forceps ; the flat end of a probe is then thrust beneath the nail as far as it will go. directing it towards the outer edge, and upon the pointed edge of a pair of stout crooked scissors is to be carried, with one stroke of which the detached portion of nail is cut off, and then drawn away by the forceps writh moderate force. But, if this be insufficient, the probe is to be passed still higher, the scissors introduced again, and a second cut frees the nail: sometimes a sharp momentary pain occurs from the point of the scissors penetrating the sensitive matrix. The only dressing required is “ a small bit of dry lint, to be pressed firmly between the fungus and the edge of the nail.” In a few hours the toe is free from pain, and the patient can walk without any lame- ness or uneasiness in three or four days after the operation. The dressing continues per- fectly dry, and need not be changed till the fourth day. At this time the fungus will be found much reduced in size, perfectly dry, and of a firmer consistence. * * * In the course of ten or fifteen days the fungus will have entirely disappeared, and the parts be restored to a healthy state. * * * T'he result of the operation is not in all cases so successful, for, in some instances, four or five days after the operation, the patient w ill complain of some uneasiness in the toe, when we shall find on examination that the dressing 4s moistened with a little discharge, and that a small portion of a whitish sub- stance, like soft and swollen leather, is rising up through the fungus. This substance, may be, regarded as a sort of accessory ungual filament, arising close to the original nail, from the anterior and outer border of its matrix, and which is now altered in texture and direction ; this filament is so soft that it breaks and tears, if caught by the common dissecting forceps.” (pp. 243, 4.)] 195. The Inflammation and Suppuration of the Surface which produces the nail, (Dupuytren’s matrix of the nail,) which Wardrop has pointed out as a pecnliar kind of whitlow, ( Onychia maligna,') begins with dusky redness and swelling of the soft parts in the neighbourhood of the nail ; an ichorous fluid oozes between the nail and soft parts; ulceration takes place at the root of the nail; the neighbouring parts become swollen, dusky red, and the pus which the sore secretes is ill-conditioned and stinking. The nail loses its colour, becomes gray or black, and does not grow, so that it shortens and loses half its width ; sometimes it entirely disappears, and only a few streaks of horn are seen here and there ; sometimes part is con- cealed under the fungating flesh ; in many cases it is completely separated. This state may continue for many years, and the toe or finger become converted into a shapeless mass. This disease is frequently very painful, especially when touched ; the fungations (which do not, as in simple in- growing of the nail, arise on the side, but are seated at the root of the nail) bleed, on walking and standing.