384 BRUISES OF THE bandaging. The bone but rarely exfoliates, and this mostly depends on improper treatment. If the Haps will not hold together because the deeper-lying parts are injured, and if the bone be discoloured, and other indications for trepanning be present, then we must endeavour to preserve the flaps till this take place. [(1) Sutures in wounds of the scalp should never be used. They are never needed, for nineteen times out of twenty the flap will continue quietly in place after having been arranged; and, if not, a single strap or two of adhesive plaster will be amply sufficient. Sutures more frequently cause erysipelas than otherwise, and that they do so is proved by the erysipelas subsiding on their removal.—J. F. S.] 384. Bruises of the Coverings of the Skull produce swellings, the so- called humps (1), (Beule, Germ.; Bosses, Fr.), which are sometimes more, sometimes less tense, often very painful, often distinctly fluctuating, even pulsating, often surrounded with a hard edge, according as the scalp, the aponeurosis, or the pericranium have suffered from the bruise, and blood has been poured out beneath them. Slight bumps usually disappear with cold applications, moderate pressure, and suitable antiphlogistic treatment. But if the bump be of large extent, distinctly fluctuating, or very painful, and much stretched, if there be effused blood beneath the aponeurosis, or the pericranium itself, it must be sufficiently opened with a cut, and the blood let out. After bruising of the coverings of the skull, there often arise, after a considerable time, fluctuating swellings from which, when opened, fluid blood escapes, and in spite of a proper bandage again fill with blood. I know a case in which such a swelling of large size was punctured twelve and another three times before it completely subsided. [(1) The word “bump” I must admit sounds oddly in surgery, but it fully implies what the author means; and it has been so rendered in the French translation by Pigne'. The word “ boils ” is the usual meaning of “ beule,” but does not point out what is here intended, neither would the more euphonous word, “swellings.”—J. F. S.] 385. In Injuries of the Bones of the Skull are distinguished, contusions, cuts, clefts, and fractures without depression. The coverings of the skull < may be therewith in various ways injured, or they may be unhurt. 386. Bruises of the Skull, which may be caused by any blunt instru- I ment, or by a cut, or shot-wound, affect either only the outer plate of the I bone, or the diploe and internal plate. In severe contusions of the skull, those vessels which connect the dura mater with the skull may be torn, i and an extravasation of blood take place between the skull and the dura • mater ; or the connecting vessels of the pericranium and dura mater may be so hurt, that these may inflame and suppurate. If beside the bruising r of the skull, no neighbouring mischief be present, the patient often, at first, feels but slight pain at the bruised part. After several days, the pain spreads over the head, the patient becomes excited, but is bodily depressed, 4 there is nausea, disposition to vomit, loss of sleep ; the pulse becomes quick and hard. Some days after the appearance of these symptoms, if the inflammation be not removed, a swelling not very painful usually occurs on the bruised part, on cutting into which, the pericranium- is found t separated and blackish, ichorous fluid is collected beneath it, and the bone < is discoloured. In the aftercourse of the disease the fever becomes greater, \ the patient is more restless, the pulse quicker; shiverings, cold sweats, a convulsions, delirium, coma, and death ensue. If there be an external 1 wound, the condition of the pus changes under these circumstances; it | becomes sanious, the wound is pale and flabby, and the pericranium separates ,-1 from the bone. On examination after death, the dura mater is found h