408 CONCUSSION OF THE BRAIN, dura mater, we shall do no good by opening the dura mater in expectation of letting out the blood that may be supposed to be under it.” (p. 525.; The advantage gained by trepanning, in cases where extravasation of blood is pre- sumed to have occurred, is, as far as I have had the opportunity of observing, very slight, as it is utterly impossible to determine whether the blood be poured out between the skull and dura mater, between the membranes themselves, between the pia mater and the brain, or in the substance of the brain itself or in its cavities. Only when the outpouring is between the skull and dura mater is there the least probability of material benefit; and even here it mainly depends on the blood being shed at one particular spot, so as to form a lump, for if it spread thinly to a large extent, as commonly happens, it cannot be got at. Hence is it, that when the blow has been received upon the temple, upon or near the track of the middle artery of the dura mater, there is greater hope of a successful result than at any other part; though even there doubtful. The trephine, however, ought always to be applied when there is reasonable presumption of that vessel having been burst or torn by the violence of the shock; and it is an interesting fact, that when the bone has been, under such circumstances, removed, and the artery, as usually happens, is found bleeding fiercely, as in one of Abernethy’s cases, it ceases to do so immediately the clot has been cleared away. Perhaps also it may be advisable, when the blow has been received on the track of a sinus, to trepan on either side of it, aDd ascertain the existence of any out-poured blood. Another occurrence, by no means unfrequent, and which cannot be ascertained before operation, renders trepanning of still more doubtful success, to wit, the tearing of a vessel by the counter-shock, at some part far distant from that where the blow has been received; thus the right side, or the crown, or the front of the head may have been struck, and the blood may be poured out on the left side, at the base, or on the back of the head; circumstances which must not be forgotten. When the blood has been cleared away, if it have been poured out in one particular spot, there is always a corresponding hollow by the thrusting down of the dura mater into the substance of the brain; in one of Abernethy’s cases it was an inch and a-half deep. I have never seen any depression so great as that; but I have seen a very distinct hollow, porportionate to the circumscrip- tion of the clot. After the removal of the clot, the dura mater which has been thrust in, seems to hang loosely in the hollow of the brain; sometimes at first motionless, the brain apparently being incapable of rising and effacing the hollow, so that hours may pass by before the brain and its membranes recover their natural place and form; at other times a little pulsating movement in the depressed dura mater is observed, which becomes more and more distinct, and simultaneously both it and the brain rise up, the hollow disappears, and at every pulsation the dura mater is driven upwards and protrudes slightly within the aperture formed by the trepan.—J. F. S.] C.—OF CONCUSSION OF THE BRAIN. 420. Concussion of the Brain (Commotio Cerebri, Lat ; Erschiit- terung des Gehimes, Germ. ; Commotion du Cerveau, Fr.) produces, im- mediately after the operation of external violence, fainting, stupor, insensi- bility, or sudden death. There are various degrees of concussion of the brain characterized by the following symptoms:—- The person who is struck by external violence, tumbles together, is un- conscious, but soon recovers himself and complains of confusion of his d ideas, faintness, disposition to sleep, singing and rushing in the ears. In a i more severe degree of concussion the patient does not so soon recover from his insensibility, he lies motionless in a deep sleep, his countenance is pale, 0 limbs cold, breathing easy, the pulse small, regular (1); the eyes are insen- i sible to light; the breathing often scarcely perceptible; and only a more or less warm perspiration tells of feeble vitality. When the patient comes to himself there often continues some disturbance of the senses; he stutters, s cannot utter single words or letters (2); one or other limb of the body does not move freely; and he has generally not the least knowledge of what has happened to him. In concussion there is always more or less severe vomiting (3). In the most severe degree of concussion the person drops at the very moment when struck, and dies on the spot.