APPEARANCES ON DISSECTION. 261 [(3) Coulson says:—“ The disease of the hip in this (third) stage may be mistaken for psoas abscess; attention, however, to the following points will materially assist us in our diagnosis. First, in psoas abscess, the patient complains of violent or dull paiu in the region of the loins, which is very much increased in the upright posture of the body, and by every motion of the limb, particularly on extending it; in the diseased hip there is no fixed pain in the loins; it is felt more in the neighbourhood of the hip, and especially in the knee. Secondly, in psoas abscess, during the whole course of the complaint, there is no deviation to be perceived in the natural situation of the trochanter, and no differ- ence in the length of both limbs; in diseased hip, on the contrary, this is always the case. Thirdly, in affection of the psoas muscle, the patient cannot turn the foot of the affected side outwards, without increasing the pain; in diseased hip, on the contrary, the foot is generally turned outwards. Fourthly, on taking a deep inspiration, on coughing or crying, and in the erect posture of the body, the fluctuating swelling, either on the nates, or in front of the thigh, increases, and the exit of matter, if the abscess burst or be opened, will be facilitated; in abscess of the hip-joint from disease, neither is the case. In this stage, also, the disease of the hip may be confounded with deep-seated formation of matter in the region of the groin, either connected or unconnected with a carious state of the bones of the pelvis. In these cases there is very acute pain in the anterior region of the hip, with shiverings, and inability to rest the limb on the ground, hut the great diagnostic mark is the absence of pain on rotating the head of the femur. There is no pain over the posterior part of the joint, or at the knee.” (pp. 34, 5.)] 237. Examination of“ the joint after death presents different results, ac- cording' to the degree of the disease and its original seat. In the earlier stage, the cartilaginous covering of the head of the thigh-bone is mostly inflamed, ulcerated, often the spongy substance itself is inflamed and more rarely the synovial membrane, the capsular ligament is swollen, the round liga- ment still maintaining the connexion between the bone and its socket; at a later period of the disease the cartilaginous covering of both the head and socket is destroyed ; the former is carious, often entirely separated from its neck; the carious destruction penetrates even into the cavity of the pelvis; the synovial membrane and capsular ligament are entirely changed, swelled up, and destroyed ; pus is collected in the joint and between the muscles. If the head of the bone be displaced, the socket also is entirely filled with a steatomatous mass, or with brown pus. [It has been already stated, that Brodie holds ulceration of the cartilages to be a i primary form of disease of joints; his reasons for which opinion are quoted previously ; (p. 229); and his statement of the symptoms which peculiarly characterize it in the hip- joint are also subsequently mentioned, (p. 254.) Key, however, does not entirely, at , least, agree with Brodie on this point, and the following are his views:—“ The oppor- I [unities,” says he, “ which present themselves to any individual of observing this disease in its early stage by dissection, must necessarily be few. The cases which it has fallen y to my lot to examine, have induce^ me to believe that the ulceration of the cartilage is H preceded by inflammation of the ligamentum teres.” He found in “ a young female I who, for six months prior to her death, had laboured under the usual symptoms of i. dironic inflammation of the hip-joint,” and in whom “the symptoms had partially f yielded to the treatment employed, when she was attacked by another disease, of which she died, the ligamentum teres much thicker and more pulpy than usual, from intersti- h ial effusion, the vessels upon its investing synovial membrane distinct and large, with- ;•? Jut being filled with injection. At the root of the ligament, where it is attached to the 0 lead of the femur, a spot of ulceration in the cartilage was seen commencing, as in other . oints, by an extension of the vessels, in form of a membrane, from the root of the vas- 1 •ular ligament. The same process was also taking place on the acetabulum, where the fygamentum teres is attached. I cannot undertake to say, that the hip-disease shall, in Iryery instance, present these morbid appearances, or that cases do not occur in which ■ilceration exists as a primary disease, without any affection of the ligament or synovial i nembrane. Mr. Brodie’s assertion, that it does exist as a primary disease, coming ' rom so excellent a pathologist, is sufficient to substantiate the fact. But observation of ti his disease in its different stages, and of the mode in which the disease is brought into ■fiction, together with the post-mortem appearances, afford strong proof that, at least in i juany instances, the action is propagated from the ligament to the cartilage, and that u ueeration of the latter is consequent upon inflammation of the former.” (pp. 230, 31.)