INTRODUCTION. 3 sion, and to distinguish those diseases to which we would assign the name of surgical. As the phenomena of life present to us by the relative predominance of powers and organs, a dynamic, potential, and organic material phase, on tiie intimate harmony of which health depends, so do we observe also in the diseased states of the organism, that sometimes the power, some- times the organ, varies more from the natural type, whence arises the dif- ference between dynamic and organic diseases. This distinction can, however, only indicate a relatively predominant suffering of one or other phase of life, since the organic body presents in itself an entire whole, of i which the several parts and phenomena are in the closest mutual con- ■ nexion with each other. The organic diseases are especially those which originate in a destruc- , tion of the natural condition, form, and structure of organized tissues, and therefore may generally depend, 1. on the disturbance of organic con- \\ nexion; 2. on the unnatural union of parts; 3. on the presence of ,, foreign bodies; 4. on the degeneration of organic parts, or on the production l\; of new structures; 5. on the entire loss; and, 6., on the superfluity of ©i organic parts. Organic diseases must be distinguished into such as have their seat in imparts inaccessible to mechanical contrivances, and to our organs of touch, ' and whose cure therefore can only be attempted by dietetic and pharma- Biceutic remedies, or whose seat permits the employment of external means t land regulated contrivances, and which in most cases can be brought to Ijheal only by these contrivances, with the assistance of dietetic and phar- jomaceutical aids. We may therefore distinguish as belonging to the pro- mvince of Surgery all those organic diseases which have their scat in parts I accessible to our organs of touch, or which allow of the employmetit of 4 ‘Mechanical means for their cure. Although inflammation is excluded from this general definition, we .5-must, however, still enumerate it generally, and particularly among the Ki manifold origins of surgical diseases, when it attacks external parts. In- i' flammation in its course and results produces for the most part organic changes, and requires, when attacking external parts, almost always the 4 employment of the so-called surgical means: further, among the surgical it diseases soon to be more particularly described, there is not one of which I -he cause is not inflammation, which in its course does not produce inflam - 0 nation, or the cure of which is not to a certain extent singly and alone 1 oossible by inflammation. M After these observations, we therefore prefer the following division for he setting forth of surgical diseases, which, if it be open to many objec- tions, is, however, an arrangement of diseases according to their internal * ll(l actual agreement:— I. Division.— Of inflammation. M • Of inflammation in general. rr Of some peculiar kinds of inflammation. a. Of erysipelas ; b. Of burns ; c. Of frost-bite ; d. Of boils ; e. Of carbuncle. • Of inflammation in some special organs. a• Of inflammation of the tonsils; b. Of the parotid gland ; c. Of