170 TREATMENT OF CHORDEE. Carmichael recommends injections into the male urethra twice a-day of a solution of nitrate of silver, ten grains to an ounce of water, for the purpose of cutting short the de- velopment of a gonorrhoea. I should be very sorry to follow such practice, as I should fear the almost certain production of stricture. But, if I used the nitrate of silver for this purpose, I should certainly, with Ricord, prefer the following method which he has em- ployed, but does not speak of either in praise or dispraise. “ I introduce into the urethra,” says he, “ Lallemand’s caustic holder, and then, exposing the caustic, I withdraw it, at the same time giving it a rotatory motion, so as superficially to cauterize the whole of the mucous membrane of the urethra. If, after this first cauterization, too much inflam- mation supervene, recourse must be had to antiphlogistics, otherwise a similar cauteriza- tion should be made three or four days after the first.” (p. 335; Fr. edit., 710 .) The following was the plan adopted for many years by Astley Cooper :—In the first week, during which there is much inflammation, a draught of magn. sulph. 3ij., inf. senn. 5jss., thrice a day, to produce active purging: diluting drinks of capillaire or tea, of which too much cannot be taken, and in which is to be taken daily potass, carb. vel sod. subcarb. 3ij. He found lime water a very excellent diluent, but did not care about mu- cilage, and considered the use of soda water very doubtful. If there were much scald- ing in passing the urine, or the pain from chordee were severe, he gave with advantage of liq. potass, upxx., ext. conii. gr.v., ex mist, cariiph. thrice a-day. The penis was kept for a long time in warm water, as a bath, to relieve the inflammation, and after a week overlaid with lint dipped in Goulard’s wash. Three or four days after which, when the inflammation had greatly subsided, he gave a mixture of bals. copaib. jj., mucil. acac. 3j., mist, camph. jiv., of which half an ounce was given night and morning. After per- sisting for two days longer in the use of this mixture, and the discharge being consider- ably lessened, he employed injections, three or four times a-day, of liq. plumb, subacet. dilut. jiv., c. zinci sulph. gr.vi. By this plan a gonorrhoea is safely and expeditiously cured. If the clap be a second or third, the balsam of copaiba may be given at once, and speedily stops the discharge. The strength of injections should be gradually increased, so as to produce slight irritation; but it is better to vary the kind of injection, cupr. sulph. gr. ss., aq. distill, jj., or hydrargyr. oxymur. gr.j., aq. distill. Jxij. The use of bougies, though at first increasing the discharge, is often successful if accompanied with injections, (p. 193.) In reference to the cure of gonorrhoea, Astley Cooper observes:—“ It is difficult in proportion as the constitution of the patient is disposed to strumous affections. If a pa- tient have pimples in his face, enlargement of the glands of the neck, a thin, delicate skin, and irritable fibre, you may expect to have great difficulty in curing him of go- norrhoea.” (p. 191.)] 162. In very painful chordee (1) bleeding, leeches and soothing poultices must be employed. If the pain be not thereby diminished, if the patient be not plethoric, and the pain rather spasmodic, opium, hyoscyamus, camphor, poultices of narcotic vegetables and soothing clysters may be used with due carefulness. If, during the chordee, bleeding occur (2), the symptoms are usually much diminished; but, if it continue and become exhausting, attempts to allay it must be made by compression of the penis, by injection of a solution of gum arabic, and in very extreme cases by astringent injections. [(1) Painful erections are generally controllable by the administration of a full dose of opium before retiring to rest, and by light bed-elothing. The same is also very useful in chordee, and a bottle of cold water placed between the legs, against the perinaeum is a very efficient local application. Smearing the chordeed part with extract of bella- donna is often useful, and, in obstinate chordee, I have used mercurial friction with ad- vantage, even before it has become chronic. Astley Cooper recommends enveloping the penis at night in lint dipped in Goulard water, or the use of evaporating lotions. Ricord thinks camphor with opium either as a pill or an enema the most powerful internal remedy, and my own observation confirms his opinion. Hunter says, that “ in relieving chordee, or the remains of it, which appear to arise from spasm, he has known the bark of great service.” (p. 96.) (2) When bleeding from the urethra occurs, it is generally rather beneficial than other- wise, and only requires control when severe. This may be effected by leading up the finger from the perinaeum against the under surface of the urethra, till the point whence the blood escapes is found. The penis is then to be grasped between the thumb and