64 MALIGNANT PUSTULE. gious carbuncle (Milzbrand;) it may be communicated whilst the animal is alive, or it may take place during the preparation of wool, hides, and so on. The malignant pustule is therefore most commonly observed in butchers, tanners, woolbeaters, shepherds, and especially on those parts of the body usually uncovered. In wet districts, in moist autumns, the disease is most common. The contagion preserves its power for a long period. Actual contact is not always necessary to produce infection. The use of the flesh of such beasts sometimes does not produce any, but at other times very dangerous, symptoms. This disease seems not to be communicable from one man to another, at least the facts relating thereto are not perfectly indisputable; it is also doubtful whether the general symptoms can be produced by the assumption of this contagion into the body, without the malignant pustule on the skin. Precisely similar phenomena have been observed in reference to the transference of the poison of glanders from horses; upon which see the article entitled Ansteckung, Uebertragung des Ansteckungstoffes von Thieren auf Menschen, in Hufeland’s Journal, vol. iv. part iii. p. 57, which contains the following three notices:— Remer, W., Ein Beitrag zu den bisherigen Beobaetungen von Krankheiten der Thiere, welche sich dem Menschen mitgetheilt haben. Schilling, Merkwlirdige Krankheits-und sections-Geschichte einer wahrscheinlich durch Uebertragung eines thierischen Giftes erzeugten schwarzen Blatter. (This notice is also in Rust’s Magazin, vol. ii. p. 480.) Meier, Todtliche Uebertragung des Milzbrandes auf Menschen. See also, Tarozzi, Tommaso, Casi di Malattia Pestiforme nata in diverse persone che conveni- vano in una stalla in cui era un cavallo moccioso; in Omodei’s Annali Universali di Medicina, 1822, vol. xxiii. p. 220. Seidler, Geschichte einer muthmasslieh durch Uebertragung eines thierischen Kranhheitsstoffes erzeugten merkwiirdigen, in todtlichen Brand ubergegangeuen Gesi- chtrose, in Rust’s Magazin, vol. xvii. p. 161. Eck, Beitrag zu den Erfahrungen iiber die sch'adlichen Einwirkungen des Rotzgiftes desPferde; in Medinischer Vereinszeitung fur Preussen. 1837. 3rd May. Elliotson, John, M.D., On the Glanders in the Human Subject, in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xvi. p. 171. Additional Facts respecting Glanders in the Human Subject, ib., vol. xviii. p. 201. [Elliotson has given a very excellent account of “ The Glanders in the Human Sub- ject,” in which the communication of the disease from the horse to the patient is distinctly made out. He mentions six cases; the first three he considers acute, two of which occurred in St. Thomas’s Hospital, and both died very speedily after having been attacked; the third occurred in a dragoon regiment in Ireland: the fourth was a vete- rinary surgeon at Clapham; both died. Two cases, which he calls chronic, extracted from Travers’s book “ On Constitutional Irritation,” one of which died, and the other long suffered from a broken-up constitution. He also refers to the cases mentioned in Rust and Omodei’s journals. In a subsequent paper he gives “ Additional Facts respecting Glanders in the Human Subject,” in which he mentions another case that occurred in St. Thomas’s Hospital, which also died. I have to thank my friend Lawrence for the following observations of the cases of malignant pustule which have come under his care, and which, on accouut of their rarity I gladly avail myself of the opportunity to introduce on the present occasions. He says:— “ I have had under my care, in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, three cases of malignant pustule, in neither of which, however, did I see either pustule or vesicle ; of the first and most remarkable, the following is the report from the Lancet of 1825-6, p. 127, in