CAUTERIZATION. 313 of the vessel, the bleeding from which has been thus stanched, presented its mouth completely closed by a clot, which extended up to a considerable distance. The chemical examination of this water has hitherto discovered, besides a slight empyreuma, no very active substance, viz., neither alkalis, acids, salts nor metals; and there is no doubt that the active principle is kreosote, and that kreosote water acts in the same manner. Unfortunately, neither the experiments of other persons nor my own with Binelli’s or with kreosote water, have had any satisfactory results. 301. Cauterization, that is, the application of a hot iron upon the mouth of a wounded vessel, produces a slough, which closes the opening in the vessel; a clot forms in its cavity, and plastic exudation is the result of the inHammatory process by which the coats of the artery are united. As the slough may separate too quickly, and the bleeding recur, (for, after the application of the heated iron, profuse suppuration always occurs,) its use must be restricted to those cases in which the blood flows from many small vessels which cannot be tied, or where styptic remedies and compression are insufficient; for instance, in severe bleedings, after operations in the mouth. The other remedies formerly employed for stanching bleeding are to be entirely rejected. 302. When the bleeding is stanched, the surgeon must be particularly careful to prevent its recurrence (after-bleeding.) The patient must be kept very quiet; he must, in important cases, be watched by intelligent assistants, especially if the sympathetic fever should be very severe. If after-bleeding take place, it must come either from vessels which had not been tied, or on which the ligatures have become loose, or from the whole surface of the wound where no vessel ean be perceived. It depends upon the extent of the after-bleeding whether the stanching is to be attempted by the application of the tourniquet, the compression of the wound, the use of cold water, or by loosening the dressings and tying the vessels. In severe inflammatory fever, the bleeding often ceases after a large blood- letting, and the use of cold applications to the wound. Bleeding in the sub- sequent course of the wound occurs either from the too early loosening of the ligatures, from ulceration of the arteries, or from a debilitated condi- tion of the vessels, and a disposition to fluidity in the blood. In the former case, it depends on the more or less advanced state of healing of the wound, and the size and situation of the vessels, whether they are to be tied in the wound, whether pressure and styptic remedies are to be applied, or whether the principal trunk of the artery is to be secured above the wound. In the latter case, local styptic remedies, pressure, even the use of the actual cautery (1), or tying the trunk of the vessel above the wound, are proper ; and a strengthening treatment, combined with acids, suitable to the general state of the constitution (a). After-bleeding readily occurs, if the ligature be placed close beneath a large collateral branch, as also in morbidly changed arterial coats, in which ulceration readily takes place. If the arteries have become bony, the safest way to guard against bleeding is to insert a linen cylinder into the mouth of the artery, and to apply (not too tightly) a broad ligature around it (2), as mentioned below, (p. 318,) or to use torsion ( par. 298.) [(1) The subject of after or secondary bleeding is of so great interest to surgeons, and of so serious consequence to patients,—not whose limbs only, but even whose life1 depends upon its proper and prompt treatment,—that I feel no need of apologizing for the in- troduction of the following clinical observations made many years since, by the younger Cline, on two cases which were under his care. These have never been published, and as I have the good fortune to possess notes, I avail myself of the opportunity to (a) lloidelberger klinischcn Annalen, vol. iii. p. 337.