591 BY CAUSTIC, SAWING OFF. Cases of happy cure of ununited fractures of White, Cline, Lehmann, and Barton, are collected by Oppenheim and others in Rust’s Magazin. [(1) Chelius has quoted Hewson as having first proposed the use of caustic potash in ununited fractures. The fact is, however, that it was practised by the younger Cline more than twenty years before in St. Thomas’s Hospital, in proof of which, I copy from my notes the following Case.—P. M., a sailor aged thirty years was admitted into St. Thomas’s Hospital, April 13th, 1815 ; having on the 7th of September, of the preceding year, fallen down a ship’s hold, by which compound fractures of both legs were produced. For these accidents he was received into Chatham Hospital, and there continued till the 1st of March last. During this time the wounds of both legs healed, and the left shin-bone united properly by bone, but the right only by fibro-cartilage. Strengthening plasters and blistering were employed to promote bony union, but without effect. When first admitted into St. Thomas’s, he was directed to walk about for the purpose of exciting the ossific inflammation, but although this was attended with much pain, there was no improvement. Towards the latter end of May, the part was blistered, but without advantage. It was therefore determined to have recourse to an operation, which was performed. June 12th. The skin was cut through on the inner and fore part of the shin-bone, and the connecting substance, which was solid, being completely laid bare, portions of it were cut away with a small crowned trephine, till the ends of the bone were reached. Into the hole thus formed, caustic potash was introduced, and allowed to remain for a few minutes, after which a poultice was applied. The patient suffered great pain when the intermediate substance was cut into, and indeed was much excited during the whole operation. He had no pain till the evening of the 14th, when the leg became very painful, continued so for ten hours, and then became easy. On the 16f/t the pain re- curred, and continued for the same length of time, after which it ceased. In a day or two after a free discharge was established, and there was not any return of the pain. On the 21st the poultice was left off, adhesive plaster applied, and an outside splint put on to support the leg. On 9th of July he got up and walked about on crutches. On the 20th he felt that his leg was stronger. On the 27th he left the house with the con- nexion of the broken ends decidedly firmer; but the wound was not healed, and he returned again, Aug. 17, with the sore still opened. He continued in the house till Oct. 10, and then left, at which time the union was complete.—j. f. s. Hewson’s case was successful, and union was complete in twelve weeks after the operation.] 718. To saiv off the cartilage-covered ends of the fracture, they must be laid bare by a longitudinal cut on that side of the limb where the bone is most superficial, and the large nerves and vessels can be avoided ; they are then to be separated from the surrounding and con- necting parts, thrust up through the wound, the soft parts protected by a spatula introduced beneath, and first the lower, then the upper portion of the fracture cut off with a suitable saw. The bleeding vessels are to be tied during the operation ; the broken ends are to be brought into contact, and the case is to be treated as a compound fracture. In the after treatment, subsequent to the removal of the ends of the bone, it must be f/ especially remembered not to expect too early the consolidation of the ends of the bone, because, from my experience, this occurs only after a very considerable time. I am convinced that, in many cases, amputation of the ends of a fracture have had an unsatisfactory result from want of attention to this circumstance (1). If the ends of the bone lie very deep and cannot be easily protruded through the soft parts, it is best to use Heine’s osteotome. It is frequently very difficult and even im- possible to reach that end of the bone which is overlapped by the other end, and sur- rounded with much soft parts. Iu such cases it is advantageous according to Dupuy- tren’s experience to saw off that end which can be reached, and bring it in contact with the other which has not been cut off (Pigne). Brodie (a), in a case of false joint of (a) London Medical Gazette, July, 1834.