BY EXTRAVASATED BLOOD, TREATMENT. 407 to give the patient the chance, small as it may be, which the division of the dura mater affords him. The combination of circumstances which would lead to such an operation must be very rare, but it may occur nevertheless, and the surgeon should be prepared to meet it.” In support of this opinion he mentions two cases :—A child of eighteen months old, under the care of Chevalier, had a blow on the head, lay insensible, and was con- i vulsed. No wound existed, but the fontanel appearing somewhat elevated, Chevalier ;. raised the skin above the membrane forming it. and exposed the dura mater, beneath >. which the purple colour of the blood was plainly seen. He therefore made a careful <j puncture, and “the blood issued at first with considerable force, spouting to the distance i of a foot. Three or four ounces of blood escaped; the symptoms were immediately •• relieved, and the child recovered.” A woman who had fallen down the stairs of a cellar, i was under Ogle’s care, who found her without wound, and lying as if in a fit of apoplexy, but “ she flinched very much when pressure was made on one spot near the anterior and i- superior angle of one of the parietal bones.” He divided the scalp, applied the trephine, and “ the dura mater of a dark colour rose into the opening nearly as high as the external surface of the cranium'’ He made a puncture in it, which “ was instantly followed by i a stream or jet of blood which spirted out to the height of some feet. Immediately on I the blood being discharged, the woman, who till that moment had continued totally insen- sible, opened her eyes. After looking about her apparently amazed, she exclaimed, si ‘What’s the matter? what are you doing with me?’ and was able to give a clear ■ account of the manner in which the accident occurred. From this time she recovered without any untoward symptom. It was impossible to ascertain the precise quantity of bd blood which escaped through the opening of the dura mater, but Ogle supposes it to have tif been about three quarters of an ounce.” (p. 388-91.) John Hunter properly observes (a):—“ The dura mater must not be perforated without good grounds ; we should be as certain that there is fluid contained under the ii dura mater, as we were certain of the necessity of applying the trepan in the first in- stance. In all cases where I have seen the dura mater wounded, it was by a crucial pi incision, and the patients have all died. When it is necessary to open the dura mater, I would recommend making a simple incision, for this would be more likely to heal by it the first intention, and we could then move the edges to one side, and see if there were i any injury below. Whenever I have seen the dura mater opened, the brain has worked through the opening, and the patients have died.” (pp. 494, 95.) “ If blood be not found between the dura mater and skull,” says Astley Cooper, “ do q not puncture the dura mater to seek for it; it is of no use, as the blood is coagulated ■ and will not escape, and it is seated under the pia mater, or in the brain itself.” (p. 2S9.) Abernethy was used to make the following observations (b) in reference to punctur- II ing the membranes for presumed extravasation :—“ Are you warranted to trephine to let lfi out the blood from between the meninges ? This is a very difficult question, and I would ( not undertake to reply to it. I think we are not warranted; there may be symptoms, ! but the bone not injured, and the vessels may be burst in the brain. Are we then to il trephine at a hazard ? If we do, we shall find the brain thrust up as if there were blood ; we must then puncture, but if it is any time from the accident we shall not be able to let all the blood out, it is grumous, not coagulated, but as if it were mixed ; I have, how- , ever, seen it coagulated. Here we shall have inflammation, and we have taken away I both the support of the bone and dura mater. I will tell you a “ Case.—A woman had a thump of the head ; she was in a state of apoplexy, but the r none was not broken. This occurred in a country town, and the older surgeons said they would not trephine; but a young man who was also called in, said that the symptoms were so indisputable, that he would see what was the matter. He trepanned her, and 1 Sound the dura mater thrust up through the opening; he put in a lancet, and eight or 0 aine ounces of blood gushed out. Immediately the woman, who had been cold and like ; i corpse, sat up and hallooed out, * What are you doing?’ ” ' Lawrence observes :—“ When blood is effused between the dura mater and the sur- Sace of the brain, it is not collected into one spot, but is diffused over the surface of the irain generally, and then we cannot get at it. When the blood is effused on the external <o surface of the dura mater, it is collected in one spot, because it is confined by the adlie- 1 >ions between the dura mater and the skull; but when effused within the cavity on the u nterual side of the dura mater, there is nothing to limit its extension, so that it diffuses 1 tself generally over the brain. I believe we may say, therefore, as a general rule, that 1 we make a perforation through the skull in expectation of letting out blood that may o ie effused under it, and find none, but that the skull adheres in the natural way to the (o) Lectures,Palmer’s Edition, vol. i. (6) MS. Lectures.