366 HYDROPHOBIA, so inoculated by it. Therefore it is that the surgeon so anxiously inquires of the person that has been bitten, and of all those to whom the dog has had access, ‘ Has he been accustomed to lick you ? have you any sore places about you that can by possi- bility have been licked by him ?’ If there are, the person is in fully as much danger as if he had been bitten, and it is quite as necessary to destroy the part with which the virus may have come in contact.” (p. 134.) “ The Hon. Mrs. Doff,” says Lawrence, “ had a French poodle, of which she was very fond, and which she was in the habit of allowing to lick her face. She had a small pimple on her chin, of which she had rubbed off the top, and, allowing the dog to indulge in his usual caresses, it licked this pimple, of which the surface was exposed, and thus she acquired hydrophobia, of which disease she died.” (p. 619.) With regard to the communication of hydrophobia from one human being to another, or from man to beasts, Lawrence observes. “ numerous experiments of this kind have been made on animals, that is, the saliva of a human being, labouring under hydro- phobia, has been inserted into the recent wounds of various animals; but these experi- ments have all failed, except in one instance, and that is mentioned by Magendie and Breschet. They took the saliva of a patient, labouring under hydrophobia in the Hotel Dieu, and applied it to the recent wounds of two dogs, on the 27th of June. On the 26th of July one of the two dogs thus inoculated went mad, and that dog bit two others, one of which died rabid on the 26th of August; so that if this experiment be correct, and the high reputation of those who are said to have made it, leads us to place credit on the statement, we must, I suppose, admit that the saliva of the human sub- ject has the power of communicating the disease This, however, is the only instance or fact that I know of, which at all tends to establish the point,” (p. 618.)] 360. The time of the outbreak of madness after the bite is very various, according to the constitution of the person bitten, the place of the wound, the time of the year, and the various corporal and mental influences. Often from seven to fourteen, usually from twenty to forty days elapse, some- times several months, or even still longer, before the madness breaks out. Frequently the wound is still open, but in most cases it has scarred, as it generally heals quickly, without any particular symptom. [Very incredible statements have been made as to the interval between the reception of the bite and the appearance of the disease. These appear to have principally ori- ginated from hearsay evidence, and been brought forward by the writers of the middle ages. Galen says that he “ knew one case, in which after the lapse of a year the person was attacked with the disease called hydrophobia (a).” Meade says he “ remem- bered one after eleven months.” (p. 131.) And he was informed on undoubted autho- rity of “a gentlewoman in Yorkshire, of the age of thirty-five years, who was bit by a mad dog in the forefinger; about a month after she had a pain in that part, which shot up to the shoulder, and was thought to be rheumatic. This pain re- turned every month, just a day before the new moon, lasting generally three days. After fifteen months she fell into the hydrophobia, and died the third day. Iler friends then recollected the bite to have happened so long before.” (p. 152.) The me- lancholy death of the Duke of Richmond, in Canada in 1819, was attributed by his Grace to having had a cut on his chin, made in shaving, licked by a dog five years pre- vious to the appearance of the disease. But it is much more probable that he was in- fected by a tame fox, which bit him through the thumb six or seven weeks prior to his death. Hale Thomson (b) mentions the case of a boy, aged seventeen years, who died of hydrophobia seven years after having been bitten. “ He had been in prison twenty- five months, and had never been exposed during that period to the bite of any animal; but he stated that he had been severely bitten by a dog seven years ago, and a scar re- mained on the right hip from that cause. During the twenty-five months of his con- finement he had always appeared sullen, gloomy, and reserved, and was never known to look the person in the face to whom he spoke. He had not complained of illness until three days previous to his death, when he became debilitated, and was removed into the infirmary of the prison. At first the case appeared to be that of a common cold, but symptoms were rapidly developed of the most alarming character, not unlike those of spasmodic cholera. The right hip, on which the bite had been inflicted, became excessively painful, and shooting spasmodic twitches pervaded the whole leg, the boy constantly imploring that the most violent frictions should be applied. Sixteen hours («) E/j ro \rwoxpa,rov; Tpopptirixuv a.. Tvou-vkum (■>. (6) Lancet, vol.i. 1837-38.