114 TREATMENT OF BURNS, face, which when done two or three times over, apply plasters to the whole, formed in the following manner:—Take of the common yellow basilicon, ung. resinoz Jlavaz, accord- ing to the occasion; let it be mixed up with as much spirit of turpentine as it will take to make it of the consistence of a liniment, which, when spread upon thin oiled cloth, is to be applied to the part: the wax and oil of the basilicon will fill up the pores of the cloth so as to prevent evaporation, by which means the strong stimulant powers of the turpentine, or alcohol, or camphor, or all together, are so confined upon the surface as to excite the absorbents to the very increased action we wish ; and, when this has taken place, the small quantity of oil is sufficient to preserve the cuticle in a pleasant state.” (p. 132.) Kentish disapproves of frequent dressings; “ for the very quick evaporation that takes place on exposing or uncovering the surface any time during the first four-and-twenty hours is pernicious; I therefore only dress the patient once a day even at first, unless in some instances. * * * But it will be better to allow him to remain for the first twenty-four hours without being disturbed ; if the plasters are spread tolerably thick with the ointment, there will be no need of using any further means till the next dressing.” The parts are to be exposed to the air as little as possible, and therefore the plasters are to be prepared before the dressing is commenced. The heated pure spirit is generally not again required; therefore, at the second dressing, the redness or seeming inflammation appearing less vivid, “ proof spirit or laudanum with the coldness taken off, will be sufficient for this dressing, and the plasters immediately applied.” Within the next twenty-four hours, “ generally the appearance of inflammation has disappeared, and where there had been any small vesication in the first instance, there will be seen such a secretion of pus as may be noticed the second day after the application of a blister; the stimulants will now have performed their office, and, if continued on, they will pro- duce unpleasant effects themselves, somewhat resembling the complaint they were meant to cure. * * * For which reason, as the equilibrium of action will appear nearly to be restored, it will now be necessary to apply less irritating substances; therefore, in- stead of basilicon made into a liniment with spirit of turpentine, it may be rendered into a proper consistence with camphorated oil; should even this be too strong and any ap- pearance of irritation take place, the cerate with lapis calaminaris or Goulard’s cerate, will answer every purpose, and abate any irritation that may have arisen from the for- mer applications. What I have found very effectual in such cases, is an ointment made with the addition of a scruple of flowers (oxyd) of zinc to an ounce of the white oint- ment, ung. cerce; this, continued until the part heals, is in general sufficient; but, if the skin should, after healing, remain very tender and likely to crack, a liniment formed of lime water and linseed oil would be useful. I have frequently found much advantage ■ from camphorated oil in this stage. These means properly attended to, and keeping the tender skin covered from the too great action of the external air, I have found effectual in curing, and quickly restoring the cuticle to a healthy state, after most severe cases.” (pp. 133-36.) Raw cotton has of late years been used in America. Gibson (a) says:—“ The .’best ; application I have ever tried is raw cotton, thinly spread out or carded, and laid directly over the burn. The value of this remedy was ascertained accidentally, a few years ago, (previous to 1824,) by a lady living in Hartford County, Maryland, whose child was scalded by boiling water, nearly oyer its whole body. The mother was carding cotton, in an adjoining room, at the time of the accident, and, having no medical assistance within reach, undressed the child as quickly as possible, and covered the whole burned surface with masses of the cotton. The effect was wonderful; for the child soon became perfectly quiet, fell asleep, and, upon removing the cotton, a few hours afterwards, no inflammation whatever could be perceived. Dr. Dallam (&), to whom we are indebted for an account of this case, has furnished others of a similar character, in which the cotton proved equally efficacious, and my own experience enables me to confirm his statement of its usefulness. It is only, however, in the superficial burn that this remedy can be relied on. (p. 51.) Dr. Anderson (c) is a strong supporter of the use of cotton in burns; he says:—“ The utility of cotton is most conspicuous in simply vesicated burns, where one or at most two renewals of it are sufficient; and it is to these cases that I believe its application has generally been restricted. But I have used it in a great variety of cases, recent and old, vesicated and sphacelated. From the state of the parts after a deep burn, the < (a) The Institutes and Practice of Surgery, being (b) On the Use of Cotton in Burns; in Potters an Outline of a Course of Lectures. Philadelphia, Medical Lyceum, p. 22. 1838. 5th Edition. (c) On the Treatment of Burns; in Glasgow Medical Journal, vol. i. 1828. 8vo.