390 FRACTURES OF THE SKULL If there be a wound and the bone be bared, the cleft is distinguishable, as most commonly blood oozes out of it, when it has been sponged, which distinguishes it from the natural grooves in the bones of the skull; also [ if the pericranium over the cleft and fracture be separated, the irregula- rities may be perceived with the finger and with the probe, and with a i very thin probe the depth of the fracture may be measured. Bleeding from the nose, mouth, and ears, are not always decided signs of frac- i ture of the skull (1). A knowledge of counter-fractures is quite un- i certain; only when extensive can they, perhaps, be traced through the external coverings, or if these be changed in appearance, they may be | suspected (2). [(1) Bleeding from the ears, in injury of the head, is of not unfrequent occurrence, and although generally accompanying fracture through the base of the skull, is not always present; and when it occurs, it is not to be considered as a decided mark of that fracture; at least a patient may recover, with few or without any symptoms of injury to the head, when it takes place even to the extent of a pint of blood; an instance of which I have had under my care within the last three or four years. It is, however, a symptom not to be thought little of, as it so frequently accompanies serious mischief. Bleeding . from the mouth, in fractured base of the skull, is rare ; I have not seen it above two or three times. (2)1 am not aware of a single instance in which it could be certainly determined prior to death that a fissure at the base existed; but I have known frequent examples of its presumed existence being disproved on examination of the head after death, as well as many in which it was found when not anticipated.—J. F. S.] 392. Every fracture of the skull proves that it has suffered severe violence. The external appearance of injury to the bone is not always i proportionate to its danger; as, from the condition of the external wound of the bone, the internal state of the parts cannot be decided on. The peculiar brittleness and glass-like state of the internal table of the skull, is the cause of its not breaking in the direction and to the extent of the external fracture, but that the fracture always radiates, that it most com- monly splits, and that the dura mater is thereby more or less separated and injured. The violence most commonly causes bruising of the diploe, and other changes in the interior of the skull. On these grounds, it is held that in most cases, clefts and fractures of the skull may produce, either at once or at a shorter or longer period after the injury, irritation of the membranes of the brain, and of the brain itself, extravasation of blood or pus, and de- struction of the bone ; and that, therefore, fractures of the skull and penetrat- ing clefts require trepanning, although no symptoms of pressure or of irrita- tion of the brain be present. If clefts and fractures of the skull be considered as conditions free from danger, and if trepanning be restricted merely to those cases in which, with other accompanying injuries, symptoms of irri- tation and pressure of the brain occur at once, or come on later, so, in most cases, the result will be unsatisfactory if the trepanning be delayed till the consecutive symptoms have occurred, as the diseased changes within the skull will have already advanced to a considerable extent. [Guthrie makes some very good remarks on fracture of the internal table of the skull, resulting from the blow of a sword, hatchet, or other clean-cutting instrument. “ When the sword or axe” says he, “ has penetrated as far as, or through the internal table, the case is of a much more serious nature, for this part will be broken almost always to a greater extent than the outer table, and will be separated from it and driven into the membranes, if not into the substance of the brain itself; the surface of the bone show- ing merely a separation of the edges of the cut made into it. These cases should be all carefully examined. The length of the wound on the top or side, or any part or the head which is curved and not flat, will readily show to what depth the sword or axe