96 TREATMENT OF GANGRENE, for, if it be, the same action will be set up in the stump, and the patient’s condition ren- dered worse by the shock of the operation. Only when the gangrene is proved to have stopped, by the line of separation having descended to some depth in the soft parts, is amputation to be entertained.—J. F. S.] 75. The treatment of senile gangrene must depend on the different modes in which it has arisen { par. 26.) When livid redness and swelling set in as a consequence of injury, or any other locally operating mischief, softening, soothing, or dry aromatic compositions must be applied, accord- ing to the circumstances ; in more active inflammation, and in robust per- sons, leeches should be used. It is proper to allude to these cases, and especially when occurring in plethoric subjects, as Dupuytren (a), by the employment of the antiphlogistic method, by bleeding and leeching, pro- fesses to have met with successful results. The general treatment must cor- respond with the local; in very severe pain opium in considerable doses - should be given (6), and, according to circumstances, with tonic medicines. In the other kind of senile gangrene, which comes on with blackening and shrivelling of the part, tonic means in combination with volatile applications with the addition of opium if there be pain, and the local employment of soothing poultices, can alone produce the limiting and throwing off the slough, and respite life for some time. I have communicated (c) an interesting example of senile gangrene of the hand and fore arm, in a woman of eighty-two years of age, in which by proper support of the powers separation of the slough and healing ensued. Compare also IIeim (d). 76. Gangrene from pressure by lying is to be guarded against by ! suitable preparation of the bed, by lying on a mattress instead of a feather-bed, by proper cleanliness, frequent change of the body-linen ; and sheets, repeated alteration of position, by putting doe-skin beneath I the patient, by frequent washing the compressed parts with cold water, j lead wash and camphorated spirit. If the part have become red, it must be ! laid on a hollow formed by introduction of ring-shaped pads, little bolsters of horsehair, cleft mattresses, and afterwards compresses moistened with lead wash, vinegar, or Tiieden’s arquebusade water must be applied, or the part must frequently be smeared with an ointment of white of egg and camphor beaten to a cream. When ulcerative absorption has occurred, softening poultices, ointment of oxide of zinc, or of lead, with opium or camphor, should be applied, and, if the ulceration be spreading and deep, aromatic poultices. If actual gangrene be present, then the ordinary treatment for gangrene must be employed. Of course the treatment of the patient’s health should be guided by the state of the disease. In many cases where it is difficult to move the patient, the application of local means may be assisted by the use of Lecat’s suspending mat (e), or Levdig’s (f) apparatus for raising invalids. 77. In gangrene after the use of cockspurred rye, vomiting and i purging must be had recourse to, and subsequently both internal and j external stimulating remedies. In many cases amputation has been per- 3 formed, which, however, has not always been of service, because, espe- t cially in patients who had been much weakened, the same changes took * place in the stump. If the gangrene has become defined, it is most \ (a) In Balling, as above. (d) Schweiz. Zeitschr. fur Naturw. u. Heilk, 1 \b) Pott, Observations on Frostbite on the vol. ii. part. i. p. 73. Toes and Feet; in his Surgical Works, vol. iii. p. (e) Philosoph. Trans. 1742, p. 346. 189 et seq. Ed. 1808. (/) Der Krankenheber, &c., mit 2 Kupf. (c) Ileidelberger klin. Annalen, vol. vi, part i. Mainz, 1812.