371 APPEARANCES AFTER DEATH. cicatrix, at times attended with itching, but in general resembling the aching of rheu- matism, which, in some cases, shoots to some distance along the limb affected, and in others degenerates into a species of torpor in the part itself. * * * The scar becomes red, swollen, sometimes livid, and in one case (a) was surrounded by papulary eruption, and in the course of a short time it opens and discharges a peculiar ichor. Meanwhile flying convulsive pains are felt in various parts of the body. As the disease proceeds, the patient, according to Dr. Marcf.t, complaius of pains shooting from the wound to the heart, and in general both he and Babington, with Professor Callisen, have observed in different cases that these recrudescent pains seem always to follow the course of the , nerves, and do certainly never inflame or irritate the lymphatic vessels and glands in the vicinity, though passing in a parallel course towards the trunk. * * * It is seldom that they occur longer than six days before the disease becomes marked, and the more i general term of their appearance seems to be two or three days before hydrophobia su- r pervenes.” The spasmodic stage presents the hydrophobic phenomena. “ The whole of the symptoms above expressed may establish themselves in a few hours K after their commencement, though in general they can scarcely be said to become so vl fully developed before the second day, and death most usually happens in this and the i third according to Hamn.ton’s table, although in a considerable number it has taken e-j place after twenty, twenty-five, or thirty-six hours, and in others it does not happen before . the fifth day, and in some few instances not before the eighth or ninth day.” (p. 491-95.)] 363. On examination of the corpse, the nerves and their sheaths, in the j. neighbourhood of the wound, have been found inflamed, and their medullary substance discoloured (Z>), inflammation of the neck, of the epiglottis, of ■ the ganglions of the nerves of the neck, redness of the nervus vagus, sym- M pathicus, and phrenicus; further, inflammation of the membranes of the brain, and watery extravasation between them ; the mass of the brain drier Ij than usual, and its vessels loaded with black blood; frequently, inflamma- ntion of the heart, adhesion of it to the pericardium; the heart empty or loaded with coagulated blood ; the lungs inflamed, adherent to the pleura, often dry ; gangrenous inflammation in the stomach and other intestines. The salivary glands are not diseased. The corpse speedily becomes putrid ; 11 the muscles are dusky red, even when much blood has been withdrawn, and I the blood has a peculiar fluidity, by means of which it passes into the most u minute vessels. In many cases, however, nothing unnatural is observed (c). > The scar of the bite often appears swelling with coagulated blood, especi- ally when during life it has been much inflamed. Locheu (d) has found in all mad dogs, upon the spleen, vesicles of different size and . i form, containing a pale yellowish lymphatic fluid, and covering the entire surface, to- st gether with traces of inflammation in the spleen. [In the examination of Elliotson’s patient it appeared that “ the medulla oblongata was rather softer than usual, and so were the corpora striata and the thalami nervorum - opticorum, but the middle lobes were likewise softened. The phrenic nerve and the par vagum appeared perfectly healthy, as did the -whole of the spinal marrow. The ! I cardiac half of the stomach was redder than usual, but not redder than we continually : see it after affections of the respiratory organs. The oesophagus was quite healthy. The M larynx and adjoining parts, and the whole of the lungs, were in a state of congestion, and the corpse was that of one who died after struggling. The hands were clenched, ] and the lips turgid and blue. The heart was strongly contracted. The spasmodic . attacks which took place were quite sufficient to cause the congestion observed in these ! parts, though, were they not so, the congestion would not explain the peculiar symptoms.” 1 i(p. 292.)] 364. As to the proximate cause of hydrophobia, it is probable that it consists in an active, quick-running inflammation of the nerves, specially of the ganglionic system, and thereby the diseased disturbance of the animal (n) Edinburgh Medical Journal. 1307. I . W Cherardini ; in Abhandlungen fiir prak- f tisehe Aerate, vol. xv. p. 57. Mktzoer (Auten- , sieth), De hactenus pr.etervisa nervorum lustra- 1 10ne’nsectione hvdrophoborum. Tubing®, 1802. (c) Horn; in Archiv. fiir Medic. Erfalirung, 1821, Jan. Feb., p. i. (d) Dissertatio exhibens magnum Lienis in hydrophobia momentum. Goettingse. 2n2