76 ARTERITIS. August 15. He came under my care at St. Thomas’s, and, in addition to what has been already mentioned, he says, that he has long had a sense of weakness as if overworked and that during the first day of the attack, the dullness and coldness continued extend- ing down to the wrist, but unaccompanied with pain; that for the last two nights his arm has been affected with dull aching pain which lias prevented his getting rest, but has subsided during the day. At present he is free from pain, except when the arm is bent or hanging down, under either of which conditions he has pain at the original spot in the middle of the arm. He has much tenderness on slight pressure from the middle of the arm upwards, and the arm-pit in the course of the artery, but none below. The pulsation in the brachial artery below the specially indicated part, is scarcely, if at all perceptible, and above it is slight; at the wrist, in the ulnary artery, there is not any pulsation, but the radial artery pulsates slightly. The pulse of the right wrist is dis- tinct, full and quick. I ordered bleeding from the right arm to twelve ounces, milk diet, and liq. ant. potass, tart. tt| x. ex mist, potass, citr. 4tis August 10. He has been relieved by the bleeding; has less pain and more feeling in the arm. August 17. A careful examination by the stethoscope indicates regurgitation through the aortic valves. August 22. Complains of having had occasional shooting pain in the fore and middle fingers of the left hand, as if being cut off. No increase of pulsation at the wrist; the upper arm is less tender. He complains of having had pain in the sole of the left foot two days since, which yesterday extended into the great and second toe, so that he could not bend them without much pain; in course of the day the pain subsided at this part and attacked the dorsum pedis, where it yet remains, though less severe than yesterday. September 5. Pulsation in the left radial artery is now very distinct though small. September 26. On examination with the stethoscope, distinct bellows murmur with the second sound most decidedly over the aortic valves, and the first loud, short and clear: pulse jerking, regurgitation through the aortic valves, and dilatation of the heart. October 4. The pulsation at the wrist still continues steady. He complains of having cough with expectoration and want of rest at night; is languid and thin, and his health not improving. R pil. opii.gr. 1 o. n., which was, on October 24. Replaced with tinct. camph. comp. 5j ex mist, amygd. ter in die, and, on October 27. The opium was resumed. He has been gradually becoming more languid without any very distinct cause. November 3. He spat a little blood, which continued increasing by degrees till November 5. When he spat a large quantity, and died in the evening. During the last three days he has been so much exhausted, that it was absolutely necessary to keep him up with arrow-root and port wine four ounces daily. Examination.—Chest. Some old pleuritic bands on the left side, but none on the right; the left pleural cavity containing a considerable quantity of serum. Pericardium universally adherent; its free portion separated from the visceral with great difficulty. Heart enlarged; its apex wide and rounded : both ventricles enlarged; the walls of the left thickened, and those of the right somewhat thinned. Valves on the right side perfectly healthy. On the left the sigmoid valve of the aorta thickly beset or fringed with vegetations. The curtains of the mitral valve thickened and containing points of cartilage and bone. Both aortic and mitral orifices contracted, mainly dependent on the thickening of their individual valves. Belly. Liver rather enlarged, dark-coloured, and in a state of hepatic venous con- gestion. Left Arm. Brachial artery high upon the arm over a space of from half-an-inch to an inch, of a red colour, and its coats thickened, containing at this point a plug of coagu- lable lymph adherent on one side to the lining of the vessel. Below this part the vessel was much contracted to the extent of three or four inches, beyond which it again resumed its original calibre, and there the orifices of three or four minute vessels were perceived. Adhesive matter may be deposited between the internal and middle coats of an artery, and even pus, of which an instance is mentioned by Andral. The internal coat of the aorta “ was elevated by half-a-dozen little abscesses, each about the size of a hazel nut and situated between it and the middle coat; the pus contained in these abscesses resem- bled the usual pus of phlegmon.” (p. 379.) (2) The deposit of earthy matter in arteries generally involves only their coats, especially the inner coat; upon the exterior of which the earth is held to be deposited, in consequence of the thin internal coat being usually traceable and separable from it, so