SHORTENING AND LENGTHENING 256 sometimes drawn up more, and sometimes put out further than the other. Mr. Cline says the limb is actually longer and shorter in different stages of the disease, and ac- counts for it thus :—In the first instance, inflammation takes place in the ligaments of the joints, occasioning the parts to swell, and a larger quantity of synovia to be accu- mulated in the joint, which displaces and pushes out the head of the femur, thus occa- sioning a lengthening of the limb ; but as the disease advances absorption takes place, not only of the accumulated synovia, but also of the bone itself, with the surrounding ligaments ; and the head of the bone being drawn into the new-enlarged cavity by the action of the gluteal and other muscles, occasions a shortening of the limb; and this lengthening and shortening of the limb is peculiarly evident on laying the patient on the belly.” (p. 595.) “ In order to form a correct judgment” upon the actual state of the limb, Law- rence (a) says, “ you must strip the patient, and make the examination on a straight horizontal surface. You will then immediately observe the position of the pelvis and discover the cause of the apparent elongation or shortening of the affected limb. At all events, you may remove every doubt as to the apparent or manifest shortening or elon- gation, by measuring on each side from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the patella; this will enable you to ascertain whether there is a real, or only a seeming alteration in the length. The change, however, in the subsequent period of the affec- tion is quite a different matter. The disease, as it proceeds, is attended with destruction of the ligamentum teres, with ulcerative destruction of the orbicular ligament of the hip-joint, with destruction and ulceration of the head of the thigh-bone, and of parts of the acetabulum. Thus all the causes which would prevent the muscles from retracting the limb are removed; the muscles, therefore, draw the extremity upwards and out- wards, and a real shortening to the extent of some inches, is the consequence.” (p. 485.)] 233. The shortening of the extremity which, commonly, occurs in the first period of acute inflammation of the hip-joint, is always a seeming shortening dependent on a shifting upwards of the pelvis on the diseased side. All other explanations given of this shortening are incorrect, and incompatible with the true situation of the hip-joint; such as Rust’s, and specially Fricke’s, explanation, that, by violent muscular contraction, which occurs in this acute inflammation of the joint, the head is pressed deeper into the socket, and thereby the shortening of the limb is produced. Fricke (b) seeks to ground his opinion on the circumstance, that the leg in its healthy condition may be shortened by voluntary effort of the muscles of the thigh, —as every one may prove on himself. But this assumption is quite incorrect, and whoever makes the experiment on himself or on some other person, will, if, at the same moment when the thigh is retracted, the hands are placed on both hip-bones, easily and decidedly be convinced that the retraction of the extremity depends only on the eleva- tion of the hip-bone. It is perfectly inadmissible to explain the shortening by the com- pressibility of the cartilaginous overspreading of the head of the thigh-bone and its socket. In the severe painfulness of the acute inflammation of the hip-joint, the thig l is always more or less bent and drawn up towards the belly ; the muscles are no doubt contracted, but at the same time the patient draws up the pelvis, especially if, as. usual, he lies bent towards the sound side, and the extent of this drawing up of the pelvis is in close dependence upon the degree of painfulness and upon the position which the patient constantly assumes. We therefore observe the same in bruises of the parts about the hip-joint, and in every painful affection of the thigh and hip. An unprejudiced obser- vation and attentive measuring, will convince every one of the truth of the statement here advanced. I have observed two cases of traumatic inflammation of the hip-joint, in which this seeming shortening of the extremity had led the medical attendants into the belief of a luxation, and to the employment of very improper means for its reduction. 234. The lengthening of the extremity which occurs in chronic, and in the latter course of the acute coxalgia, when morbid changes have been set up in the joint, may be either seeming or real. The seeming lengthen- ing is here again dependent on the shifting of the pelvis, because the patient in the tedious course of this disease still limps about, and in doing so throws the weight of the whole body upon the sound extremity, and, by this means (n) Lectures in Lancet. (6) Above cited.