COLD ABSCESS. 45 exist in so slight a degree as to be scarcely, or even not at all, observable, and, on account of the too slight vital activity of the organ, the low state of the nervous power, and of the plasticity of the blood and the i diseased diathesis, a serous thin pus is produced without the appearances of inflammation being manifest. The circumscription also of the pus in a j definite cavity proves that inflammation must have been present. Ab- ] scesses thus originating are called Cold Abscesses, Lymph Abscesses (kalte Abscesse, Lymph Abscesse, Lymphgeschwulste, Germ.; Abc'es/void, Fr.) i They are always the consequence of a general cacochemic or dyscracic affection, and arise either spontaneously and commonly in many places at once, or are produced by an external injury. We may very properly apply with Walther the name Diathesis pundenta to that general condition of the body which is the ground of these abscesses; but it is | improbable that pus can be formed in the blood itself by decomposition within the i vessels, and that the blood can be immediately converted into pus. The circumstance i of pus having been found in the blood, cannot form a ground for this opinion, as this, j if the walls of the veins are not inflamed, intimates merely the absorption of the pus which has been found as well in the lymphatic vessels as in the veins (a). The so-called abscess of congestion, in which the source of the pus, mostly the carious destruction of , i bone, is more or less distant from the collection of pus upon the surface of the body, | must be distinguished from cold abscess: this, however, will be considered in several places. 16. The commencement of cold abscess usually sets in, without any i sensibly perceptible local appearance, with diminution of appetite, general i uneasiness, slight fatigue, disturbed sleep, and so on. Next there appears j on some part of the surface of the body, (where many patients fancy they 9■ have had a sort of prickly sensation,) most commonly between the shoulder- i blades, on the chest, on the loins, on the upper part of the thighs, a little, not discoloured, elastic, scarcely fluctuating swelling, which is not ' painful, and at the utmost gives the patient an obscure sensation of l- tension and weight. Gradually the swelling enlarges, often to a con- 1 siderable size, the fluctuation is distinct, and the symptoms of a disturbed assimilation become more marked. After a shorter or longer time, the I swelling begins to be painful, the skin covering it reddens, becomes tense, l the general appearances mentioned are more decided, febrile action sets i in, and the whole countenance of the patient is cachectic. The skin, con- tinuing to thin, at last breaks, and a quantity of thin, pus-like, often completely putrid and stinking, fluid is evacuated, followed by a clear ;i discharge, which, if the neighbouring bone be destroyed, is of an ichorous f icharacter. By this great loss of the juices, and by the colliquative sweats and purging, which soon set in, the powers of the patient are speedily broken up. if [The cold abscess here described must be confounded neither with Hunter’s “ col- * lections of matter without inflammation,” (p. 390,) which are, as he says, of a scrofulous •• nature, and very different from that under consideration, nor with “ the cold abscess of i' the surgeons of the Saracen school, the chronic abscess of modern surgeons,” mentioned ■' by Boyer and Craigie (b) (pp. 43—163), and caused by chronic inflammation. ^ The true cold abscess, which Chelius has here well described, is, I believe, very rare. 1 have recently had a case of which the following is a brief account:— Philip Coyne, aged 26, admitted under my care, August 2~th, 1844. He was very irritable, complained of much lassitude and debility, Hi and that he had some difficulty in passing his water, for which about a fortnight ago be 1 had a catheter passed, but had not been since inconvenienced. He did not, upon exami- . nation, appear to have any surgical complaint; but, as he had been ill-fed, and suffering («) See Crttvelhier, Anatomie Pathologique, (6) Elements of General and Pathological Ana- ■ rat. i. p. 200. Gendrin, as above, p 22. tomy. Edinburgh, 1828. 8vo.