380 TETANUS—DIAGNOSIS, PROGNOSIS, [376* The diagnosis of tetanus from hydrophobia especially has been well given by J. L. Bardsley. In tetanus the stiffness and immobility of the lower jaw is present, and scarcely to be overcome by any effort during almost the entire course of the disease; in hydrophobia the spasms are always clonic, i.e., always of brief duration, and succeeded by a period of complete relaxation, generally of many hours’ duration, in the beginning of the disease, unless provoked by attempts to swallow. In very rare forms of tetanus, however, guttural spasms on attempting to drink, dread of fluids and their rejection when introduced, do occur. In tetanus there is rarely a discharge of saliva, which is a very marked symptom of hydro- phobia, and thirst is as rare in the former as it is common in the latter. In tetanus the mind is almost always clear to the last; in hydrophobia, almost from the beginning, numberless deviations from the usual habits of thought and action indicate an incipient stage of mental aberration, which often passes on to delirium or raging madness. The countenance in tetanus differs from that in hydrophobia by the natural character of the eye and the general appearance of suffering ; whilst in the latter the eye is pre- ternaturally bright and glistening, and the face often exhibits frightful con- vulsions. Tetanus scarcely ever presents the laborious panting respira- tion, the tremor of all the muscles, the intolerant sensibility of the sur- face and organs of sense, which occur in hydrophobia. Tetanus seems to occur almost any time after the injury, but hydrophobia chiefly from the thirtieth to the sixtieth day. 376** The prognosis is always extremely unfavourable in traumatic tetanus, and Dr. 0. Beirne (a) states, that of two hundred cases which he saw not a single one recovered. Hennen says :—“ I have never been j fortunate enough to cure a case of acute symptomatic tetanus: in some instances of the chronic species I have effected or witnessed a cure.”(p. 245.) It may be taken as a rule that the danger of the patient is in proportion to the acuteness of the symptoms ; whilst the more chronic they become, the greater hope may be entertained. As far as my own opportunities of observation permit me to form an opinion, I should say, that cases which pass over the seventh day, in general terminate favourably. Two cases, . under such circumstances, we have had in St. Thomas's Hospital during the last twelve or fourteen months. When the disease also is simple trismus the prognosis is more encouraging than when tetanus sets in.—j. f. s.] 377. In the treatment of tetanus, the remote causes must be specially attended to, and, if they be in the wound, as foreign bodies, torn or tied nerves, and so on, they must be removed by enlarging the wound, or by some other way according to the rules of art. With this object is also the cauterization of the wound, and even the amputation of the limb itself, to be proposed (Larrey) (b). Dupuytren (c) considers amputation in confirmed, tetanus as useless. 378. For the further treatment a vast number of remedies have been proposed, more especially besides the antispasmodic means, opium in large J doses, (when it cannot be introduced by the mouth, it may be by clysters, i or even by injection of small doses of the watery extract of opium into the J crural or median vein, musk, camphor, tincture of cantharides, laurel water, prussic acid (1), tobacco, oil of turpentine, arsenic, colchicum (d), and the like. Stutz recommends the alternate internal and external use i (а) Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. iii. (c) LeeonsOrales de Clinique Chirurgirale, vol. (б) Above cited, vol. i. p. 271. ii. p. 611. (d) Percy and Laurent; in Dictionnaire des Sciences Medicales, vol. xxv. p. 31.