OF THE WRIST AND HAND. 793 bone, whilst in dislocation the styloid processes retain their reciprocal position; the position of the hand, usually though not always, is bent backwards, in dislocation com- monly bent. Compare par. G53, where is given the literature of fracture of the lower end of the spoke-bone ; Voillemier, in Archives Generates de Medeciue, 1842, March ; Prinz, G., Ueber den Bruch am unteren Elide des Radius. Erlangen, 1842. 1059. The cause of this dislocation is always, a very violent bending1 of the hand in this or that direction; hence the ligaments are always much torn, and the tendons on the side of the dislocation very severely torn and stretched. Barely are other of the soft parts besides the ligaments rup- tured. 1060. The redaction of dislocation of the hand is not difficult. Exten- sion of the hand and pressure upon the carpal bones in the contrary direc- tion to which they are dislocated, is sufficient. After reduction, the wrist is to be wrapped up in moistened linen, and fastened with a circular roller. If there be a disposition to re-dislocation, which in the dislocation forwards and backwards is generally the case, a splint must be placed on the palmar and dorsal surfaces of the hand, and confined with a circular bandage. Severe inflammatory symptoms always arise, which require suitable treat- ment and cold applications. Subsequently, aromatic applications, spirit- uous rubbings, and so on must be used to disperse the often long-continued swelling of the wrist-joint. 1061. In dislocation of the spoke-bone cdone, which is rare, it is displaced on the front of the carpus, resting upon the navicular and great mult- angular bones. The outside of the hand is twisted backwards, and the inside, forwards ; the end of the spoke-bone forms a projection on the front of the carpus, and its styloid process is no longer opposite the great mult- angular bone. The cause of this dislocation is a fall on the hand whilst turned backwards. The treatment is the same as that for both bones. 1062. In dislocation of the cubit, which is more rare, and in which the sacciform membrane is torn, the bone usually projects backwards, forming a protuberance on the back of the wrist, and although it can be easily pressed into its natural place, the deformity recurs when the pressure is withdrawn. The diagnostic sign is the projection of the cubit over the cuneiform bone and the dislocation of the styloid process from the line of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. Pressure restores the bones to their place, in which they are to be retained by splints on both surfaces of the arm and compress on the end of the cubit. IX.—OF DISLOCATION OF SINGLE BONES OF THE HAND. 1063. The ejreat bone (1) alone, can be displaced from its connexion with the scaphoid and semilunar bones, backwards, in consequence of vio- lent bending of the hand ; by which a circumscribed swelling is produced on the situation of the great bone, in the direction of the middle finger, which disappears on pressure, but recurs when the pressure is withdrawn. The reduction is easily effected by pressure upon the projecting head of the bone, or if this be insufficient, by simultaneous pulling at the fore and middle finger. The hand is to be kept extended, until it be laid upon a flat board, pressure made upon the projection with a compress, a splint applied, and the whole fixed with a roller. If it remain, in a slight degree, it is not accompanied with any inconvenience.