150 INFLAMMATION OF THE BREAST. state of the body, a corresponding- general treatment must be had recourse to ; according to the variety of the symptoms, leeches, mercurial friction, dispersing plasters, herb bags, and derivative remedies are to be used locally. If the inflammation be critical, every tiling must be withheld which may produce its revulsion. If the swelling be accompanied with a proper degree of inflammation, it must be simply covered with a mild poultice; if.the living activity in it be too low, stimulating poultices and plasters must be applied. 142. When suppuration has taken place the abscess either breaks of itself under the use of the remedies mentioned in the treatment of ab- scesses, in which case the cure commonly soon follows ; or the formation of abscesses is accompanied with severe symptoms, delirium, lock-jaw, and so on, under which circumstances the swelling is to be soon and sufficiently opened, so that the tension of the aponeurotic sheath of the gland may be relieved. According to its condition, the abscess must be treated with soothing or stimulating remedies. The treatment is always tedious; knotty scars and detached hardnesses readily form. If a fistulous aperture remain, through which the spittle flows, it must be treated by touching with lunar caustic, which, aided by proper compression, will close it (a). If the gland become hard, it must be treated after the ordinary rules. III.—OF INFLAMMATION OF THE BREAST. ' Schlegel, F. A., De Statu sano et morboso Mammarum in Gravidis et Puerperis. Jense, 1792. Muller, fragmentarische Bemerkungen iiber die Entstehung und Heilung der Entziindung und Vereiterung der Brliste bei saiigenden Weibern; in von Siebold’s Chiron., vol. ii. p. 2, par. 344. Boer’s natiirliche Geburtsliiilfe und Beliandlung der Schwangern, Wbchnerinnen und neugebornen Kinder, Wien, 1817, vol. iii. p. 23. Benedict, T. W., Bemerkungen iiber die Krankheiten der Brust und Achsel- driisen. Breslau, 1825. 4to. I. IV. Cooper, A. P., Illustrations of Diseases of the Breast. London, 1829. 4to. Jeanselme, G., Memoire sur les Inflammations et les Abces duSein chezla Femme; i in Gazette Medicate. January, 1839. 143. Inflammation of the Breast (Inflammatio Mammarum) occurs in women either nursing or after that period ; and is situated either in the ; skin and cellular tissue alone, or in the parenchyma of the gland itself 144. If the inflammation occur during suckling, the breast on a sudden I becomes tense, red, and swollen. If the inflammation be superficial, a ! regular smooth and shining swelling may be felt, but the secretion of milk does not always cease. In inflammation of the parenchyma of the gland I the swelling is harder, different knobby swellings are felt, and the secre- tion of milk is completely stopped. It is not unfrequently accompanied with febrile symptoms. I 145. The superficial inflammation of the breast generally subsides of itself; but, if the parenchyma be attacked, the inflammation at a certain . stage proceeds to suppuration, and not unfrequently hardening remains. 146. The usual causes of this inflammation are cold, mental excitement, (a) For the further consideration of the treatment of fistulous opening in the parotid duct, see Salivary Fistula, par. 902.