WOUNDED INTESTINES. 469 conducted with the nicest caution ; and when completed, the wound of the teguments should be treated with a stitch, a plaster, or a poultice, as circumstances dictate.” (p. 188.)] 528. In deciding on the several kinds of stitches, the most objections have been made to that recommended by Ramdohr, in which, if the intestine be completely divided, it is extremely difficult or impossible to distinguish the upper from the lower end of the intestine, and to introduce it properly, as it is much retracted within itself, and the ends of the intestine raised into eacli other are not in that relation which favours their union. Thus the ex- ternal coat is in contact with the internal, consequently a serous is applied to a mucous membrane, which, under inflammation, always pours forth a large quantity of mucus, thereby preventing the union. Denans and Jo- bert have indeed by their practice set aside this circumstance ; but similar difficulties remain with both of them as well as with Ramdohr’s plan ; the mesentery must be separated and thereby the vessels going to the intestine are injured; there remains the difficulty of distinguishing the upper from the lower end of the intestine, and its insertion is still more difficult because the arc of the lower end is diminished by its own thrusting in. Lembert’s practice is entirely free from these objections ; it may be employed equally in longitudinal wounds, and in complete division of the intestine; and is distinguished from Reybard’s mode of proceeding by its simplicity. 529. In all cases in which the wound of the gut is not so small that it is closed by its protruding internal membrane, the wound may have a longi- tudinal, oblique, or transverse direction, stitching, after Lembert’s plan, may be then considered as the most suitable practice. In small wounds, Astley Cooper, having lifted up the wounded part with a pair of forceps, applied around it a fine silk thread, and cut off its ends close to the knot. The ligature was discharged by stool. Dupuytren (a) has simplified Lembert’s mode of stitching. The edges of the wound are to he thrust inwards, and the peritoneal surfaces brought into contact; a threaded needle is then to be passed through the back of each fold from the one to the other, so that each time the thread is brought back again over the lips of the wound, as in the glover’s stitch, but is always introduced from the same side. The first edge is therefore always pierced from without inwards, the second from within outwards; and so it is recommenced with the former. By this stitching, the edges of the wound are brought | together not merely by the stitches, but also by the pressure of the thread repeatedly drawn back obliquely or spirally. The united gut is then returned into the cavity of the belly; the ends of the thread fixed externally are to be cut off at the time of the ’ actual union of the wound, and the threads withdrawn. In complete division of the intestine, the same treatment, that is, the turning in the i edges of the wound and the use of the glover’s stitch, is more simple and efficient. The i fore-finger of the left hand is to be introduced into one piece of the intestine, held be- tween it and the thumb, and the wall of the gut penetrated as near as possible to the mesentery, at a line and a-half from the edge; a piece of thread, four or five inches long, is to be held hy an assistant; herewith the opposite portion of the intestine is held, and perforated in the same way, and again brought back to the former piece, till the mesentery is again reached, when the stitching is perfected; the threads are then to be somewhat drawn, the edges of the wound laid straight with the forceps, the intestine returned into the belly, both ends of the threads to be fastened externally, left for five or six days on the surface, and then cut off to be removed. If it be thought dangerous to draw out the encircling threads, a thread may be introduced among them, at the free edge of the intestine, into one of the spiral loops, and with this, after cutting through both ends of the suture thread, it may be drawn out. Both ends may also be cut off, and the spiral thread left, which then falls into the intestine and is discharged by stool. This stitch is easily taken out, requires no special operation, and is so firm that the air cannot escape through the wound. (a) Above cited.