HARDENING. 52 as sloughing, exfoliation, &c., it is seldom attended with pain: perhaps it may not be easy to assign a cause for this.” (p. 459.) The following are some of Travers’s observations on this important subject: “ Ulceration, when it occurs, is consecutive to adhesion and suppuration, in almost all cases; and, although suppuration may now and then pass without ulcerations, in the same manner as adhesion prevents suppuration, yet the frequent case of ulcerative inflammation succeeding to abscess, and the very rare existence of ulceration without pus, constitute the ulcerative, third in order, of the processes of inflammation.” (p. 187.) “ Ulcerative absorption never occurs but as an inflammatory process, and the action of the absorbents in this process is therefore exclusively a morbid one, and generally partakes of an increase proportionate and corresponding to the opposed action of morbid secretion.” (p. 188.) “ The ulcerative, being a purely vital action of the absorbents proper to the part affected, goes on progressively, either by perforation of the substance, or by an en- croachment on the surface, or by undermining and separating parts prepared by dis- organization or actual death for being cast off. The texture of the part determines which of these modes of action is employed. The cornea, the cartilage, and bone present the penetrating and circumscribed, foveolous or fossulated ulcer, a pit or chink; the cellular membrane presents the hollowing and undermining process, as in the sinuses and pouches of abscess in cellulous parts and on the margin of indolent ulcers, . also between the articular extremities of bones and their cartilages; the spreading or superficial ulceration is best exemplified in the skin. But it is always by the ab- sorbents proper to the inflamed surface that this action is carried on.” (p. 190.) “ The ulcerative process stands between the life and death of parts subjected to its action, and administers to either, according to the circumstances of the case ; being the instrument of reparation in the suppurative and adhesive inflammation, and of sepa- ration and removal of the waste and decayed, in the suppurative and gangrenous. It is the agent of granulation in the former, of sloughing in the latter, case, suppuration being the common link by which these extreme processes are connected. Without granulation ulceration is a wasting process; with it, a repairing one. In like manner, ulceration without suppuration is a devastation without means of control or repair.” (pp. 191, 2.) _ “ An ulcer is a patent and familiar illustration of the pathology, not only of the ulcer- ative, but of all the processes of inflammation; and, as it is that vital action by which not only the dead are separated from the living, but the living are removed, which have undergone such organic changes, or lost so much of their vital power as to be incapable of resisting absorption, it may be regarded, as before observed, as an agent for life and death, and, if in one case the ‘ natural surgeon,’ (Hunter,) in another the natural destroyer.” (p. 196.)] 19. Hardening {Induratio, Lat.; Verhdrtung, Germ.; Induration, Fr.) occurs when during inflammation the fluids effused into the cellular tissue {par. 4) collect, thicken, and connect the walls of the cells together. Vessels pass into the connecting mass, which becomes organized, and the nutrition of the swelling depends on these vessels. If they are numerous or much expanded, the volume of the part is correspondingly increased, and permanent coagulable lymph is deposited, fatty or even bony masses are produced. If the walls of the cells become firmly united together with- out further deposit in the swelling, the hardened part sometimes becomes smaller than in the healthy state. The hardness of the indurated part varies according to the quantity of lymph effused in the cellular tissue, according to the structure of the part, according to the course of the pre- < vious inflammation, and the duration of the hardening. The skin upon the swelling is commonly not changed : the vessels, however, may be vari- cose, or the skin itself may be intimately united with the swelling. In tins » manner are formed, consequent on inflammation, various degenerations. > enlargement of parts by hypertrophy, sarcomatous, steatomatous degenera- tions, and so on. 20. In the hardened parts, if no peculiar irritation exist, the sensibility is t