627 IMPETIGINOUS ULCERS. inflammation, it must be got rid of by mild treatment. If they be observed beneath the skin, the swelling must be opened; we do not then endeavour to press out the earthy masses; they gradually discharge themselves with the pus, by the continued use of softening poultices. If the inflammation be abated, the removal of the earthy mass may be often facilitated by taking away part of the overlying skin. If a large ulcer be formed with a deposit of this kind at its bottom, it is best removed by the application of caustic remedies, by which the cells containing the earthy matter are destroyed (a). OF IMPETIGINOUS ULCERS. 783. Among Impetiginous Ulcers (Ulcera impetiginosa, Lat.; im- petiginosen Geschwiire, Germ.: Ulc'eres impetigineux, Fr.) are to be considered those which form, in their course, chronic eruptions of the skin. Hereto belong the herpetic ulcer, the scalled head, milk-crust, and itch. These ulcers are to be considered throughout as symptoms of chronic eruption of the skin, and are determined by the great degree and long continuation of the eruption, by its easy recession from one part, and . fixing upon another, or by mechanical influences, itch, and the like. 784. The actual causes of chronic eruptions are, principally, a bad con- dition of the digestive organs, stagnation in the portal system and liver, dis- turbance of the secretions, dyscrasy, the use of bad, putrid and acrid victuals and drink, residence in foul air, want of cleanliness, dirty employ- ments, working among wool, acrid remedies and contagion operating on the skin. Hence impetiginous ulcers may be divided into, 1, the simply I local; 2, into those which are connected with general causes ; and, 3, those originating from contagion. 785. The treatment of impetiginous ulcers must vary according to the condition of the ulcer, and the causes upon which the eruption depends. If the ulcers be inflamed and painful, the general treatment must be to diminish irritation and to soothe. A more strict antiphlogistic plan of treatment is indeed rarely necessary"; a suitable dietetic regimen, and the use of cooling purgatives, are ordinarily proper. According to the variety of the cause, the remedies to be employed must be sometimes solvent, sometimes for the improvement of the digestion and assimilation, sometimes for the restoration of the suppressed secretions. As in the constitutional, though not contagious eruptions, a morbid matter is produced and in a manner thrown off', we must assist its separation by the natural drains, the skin, the urinary organs, and the alimentary canal. The remedies which effect this object are especially sulphur, and its various preparations, anli- monials, decoctions of woods, dulcamara, sassafras, juniper, sarsaparilla, carex arenaria, mezereon, pansy, and the like. In very old eruptions, and in considerable degeneration of the skin, mercurials, sublimate, and arsenic are especially useful; and the cure may often be effected merely by remedies entering into and altering the whole constitution, as the friction-cure, the hunger-cure, Zittmann’s decoction, and the like, hereafter to be mentioned. 786. The local treatment must have special reference to the state of tlie inflammation, and so long as that continues, mild applications and salves, luke-warm baths and the like can alone be used. If the irritation have subsided, so long as the internal cause is unremoved, the local remedies must be used with caution, because relapse and destruction are easily pro- fa) Moore, ,T., On Gouty Concretions or Chalk- Ure, A., lb., vol. xxiv. p.30, recommends espe- stones ; jn Medico-Chirurg. Transactions, vol. i. daily the benzoic acid, up to a scruple,after meal- P- H2. time. 2 s 2