DISLOCATION OF TIIE RIBS, 776 examination, the position of the two hip-bones is not found alike, the one being more or less high than the other. A similar swelling, loosening and laxity of the joint ligaments of the pelvic bones often arises from an internal diseased condition, in which slight violence is sufficient to produce a separation of the pelvic bones. 1016. The principal indication in these cases is, to fix the pelvis as steadily as possible and prevent every movement; for which purpose, a belly bandage, or a leathern girdle, is to be applied sufficiently tight around the hips; by this the pain is often instantaneously got rid of, and the patient’s movements much improved. How far the laxity of the ligaments, depending on general causes, may be relieved by friction, purging, and the like, must depend on the circumstances of the individual case. 1017. The coccyx may by violence be driven inwards, or by difficult labour be thrust outwards, giving rise to fixed pain, increased by motion of the lower limbs, but especially in going to stool; frequently it becomes severe and pulsating, when suppuration takes place. The ligaments are not torn in this so-called dislocation of the coccyx, it therefore recovers its natural position; the employment of the hand for its replacement, by the introduction of the finger into the rectum, or by its application ex- ternally is therefore superfluous. The treatment consists merely in rest, antiphlogistic treatment, and the local application of remedies to effect dis- persion and get rid of the inflammatory symptoms. If suppuration take place, a speedy outlet must be afforded to the pus, or otherwise consider- able destruction of the loose cellular tissue is produced. IV.—OF DISLOCATION OF THE RIBS AND THEIR CARTILAGES. (Luxatio Costarum, earumque Cartilaginum, Lat.; Verrenkung der liippen und Hirer Knorpel, Germ.; Luxation des Cotes et de leurs cartilages, Fr.) 1018. Dislocations of the hinder end of the ribs have been totally denied by mqny writers, but admitted by others, who have mentioned a threefold kind of separation, inwards, upwards, and downwards, and complete and incomplete dislocation. So long as the examination of corpses had not shown the existence of these dislocations, it was doubtful whether the common dislocation were not fracture of the hinder end of the ribs ; exami- nation, however, has proved the possibility of the dislocation of the ribs. B. Cooper (a) mentions a case of Webster’s, in which a man who had died of fever, was, on dissection, found to have the head of the seventh rib drawn upon the front of the corresponding dorsal vertebra and anchylosed to it. Some years previously he had had a sudden and violent fall from his horse, for which the ordinary treatment of frac- tured ribs had been had recourse to. Donne (b) showed from the examination of the body of a child of eleven years old, a complete dislocation of the tenth, and a par- tial one of the eleventh rib; Fimicane one of the eleventh and twelfth rib; Han- kel (c) a dislocation of the eleventh rib. 1019. Dislocation of the ribs is only produced by the direct opera- tion of external violence. It occurs most frequently at the eleventh and twelfth ribs, because their front end has no point of support, the trans- verse process is less projecting, and the costo-transverse joint, together with the interosseous costo-transverse ligament are deficient. Dislocation of the rib may be distinguished by its greater mobility, when the finger is run along it, and which is still more perceptible the nearer it approaches (a) His Edition of A. Coopeh’s Dislocations, (b) Gazette Medicale de Paris, 1841, No. 26. p. 520. (c) lb., 1834, p. 187.