401 ABSCESS OF THE BRAIN. then Birch of St. Thomas’s, whose patient she was, cut through the scalp, but did not observe any disease in the pericranium or bone. The discharge from the wound at first afforded some relief; but it became fetid, the pericranium separated, the bone was carious, and an aperture in it allowed the passage of pus at every pulsation of the brain. A trephine was therefore applied to render its escape more ready ; and, on the removal of the bone, the dura mater was found inflamed and gangrenous. She died next day, about nineteen months after the accident, (p. 32G—28.) I have seen several cases of this chronic inflammation, which is always a very serious disease, and very difficult of control; often indeed entirely unmanageable. The patient goes on slowly from bad to worse, sometimes with intervals of improvement, sometimes without, and will frequently live in a state of constant suffering for many months.—J. F. S.] 405. Acute Inflammation of the Brain (Encephalitis acuta traumatica) i; begins immediately after the injury, with severe, constant, increasing pain i in the head, uneasiness, sleeplessness; the eyes are red, intolerant of light, the pupils contracted, countenance red, the carotids beat actively, the head jt is hot, the pulse full, hard, and vibrating. Contractions of the muscles of the face, and of the whole body, and severe violent delirium ensue. If the c inflammation do not subside, it maybe fatal by its severity, by the gorging It of the brain with blood, and paralysing of the brain thereby ; or it goes on ■ to suppuration ; symptoms of pressure on the brain, constant sleepiness, but I ' often broken by delirium, and all the above-described symptoms (par. 403) if come on, and death ensues. On dissection, the brain is found full of blood, it its medullary part reddened, and, when cut through, a quantity of bloody ii points, and even extravasated blood ; collections of pus may also be noticed | at various parts on the surface of the brain, or in its substance. 406. Chronic Inflammation of the Brain (Encephalitis chronica trau- iv matica) frequently comes on very late ; its symptoms are commonly de- ;!iceptive, and, at the first, easily overlooked ; often showing intermission or i i remission. Bodily and mental depression, continued headache, febrile >J shiverings, and the like occur for a shorter or longer time; and with the hi passing of the inflammation into suppuration, the disturbance of the brain to1 becomes greater, or symptoms of compression come on. Examination after l\ death shows either a defined or diffused collection of pus in the substance, 1 or on the surface, of the brain (1). [(1) It is quite impossible to determine the length of time which abscess in the brain has ■j existed before it produces symptoms, as its only indications are the symptoms of com- - pression, which come on two or three, or three or four days previous to death. The <• size of the abscess often leads to the belief that it cannot have been formed in the few 1 days during which symptoms have existed; and its situation seems to have material influence on the appearance of the symptoms, proportionate to the importance of the < part of the brain immediately compressed. Thus a large abscess may exist in the upper parts of the brain, which probably has occupied some time in its formation, yet symp- toms of pressure appear only two or three days before death. Whilst, on the contrary, a smaller, or even a small abscess at the base of the brain, or near the origin of the v nerves will produce symptoms, probably at any earlier period, which are more decided and severe. Hence though it is customary to speak of death from abscess in the brain, t at various periods after the reception of an injury, it must not be supposed that the » abscess has existed during any very considerable portion of that time, though it has probably commenced its formation much before its existence was suspected. Sometimes the abscess in the brain appears to be sympathetic, with irritation and i suppuration of the dura mater ; a good example of which is presented by the following Case under the care of my friend Green (a):—A boy, aged twelve years, was admitted into St. Thomas’s Hospital, Oct. 26, 1827, having ten weeks previously received a blow on the forehead, followed by abscess, from which several ounces of pus were discharged by puncture; and he recovered. Three weeks before his admission he had an epileptic (a) Lancet, 1827-28. vol. i. p. 687, 88.