355 VIPER-BITES. this is [risum teneatis ?] owing to the shake, which the action of vomiting gives to the nerves, whereby the irregular spasms, into which their whole system might be drawn, is prevented.” (pp. 42, 43.) I suspect that the sucker in the case mentioned by the Doctor not only neglected this precaution, but probably had some abrasion of the lining membrane of his mouth, or he would have escaped the swelling of his underlip and ■ tongue. As a modification of the sucking practice, Sir David Barry (a) proposed the use of ) the cupping-glass over the snake-bite, and made numerous experiments on brutes, from whence he inferred first, that neither sound nor wounded parts of the surface of a i living animal can absorb when placed under a vacuum; secondly, that the application | of the vacuum, by means of a piston cupping-glass placed over the points of contact I, of the absorbing surface and the poison which is in the act of being absorbed, arrests , or mitigates the symptoms caused by the poison ; thirdly, that the application of a cup- ping-glass for half-an-hour deprives the vessels of the part, over which it is applied, of i their absorbent faculty, for an hour or two, after the removal of the glass; fourthly, l that the pressure of the air forces into the vacuum, even through the skin, a portion of a: matter introduced into the cellular tissue by injection, that is, if the skin of the animal )c be not too dense, as in the dog. He objects to scarifications, because if beyond the cup- ping-glass, the contents of the divided vessels will cease to be influenced by it. But he idoes not object to excision, if the cupping-glass be applied previously for an hour, by : which he supposes the contents of all the vessels will have acquired a retrograde direc- i tion, and, after excision, the cupping is to be again resorted to. Meade took some pains to ascertain the nature of viper-poison. Having obtained some by irritating the animal, till it bit upon something solid, so as to void its poison, a he put it under a microscope, and at first “ could discover nothing but a parcel of small I -salts nimbly floating in the liquor; but, in a very short time, the appearance changed, and these saline particles were now shot out as it were into crystals of an incredible tenacity e and sharpness, with something like knots here and there, from which they seemed to m proceed, so that the whole texture did in a manner represent a spider’s web, though in- finitely finer and more minute.” (p. 15.) On the application of chemical tests the Wpoison did not exhibit either acid or alkaline properties. After sundry other experi- ttiments, “ we resolved,” says the doctor, “ to end our poison enquiries by tasting the pc venomous liquor. Accordingly, having diluted a quantity of it with a very little warm ji water, several of us ventured to put some of it upon the tip of our tongues. We all pp agreed that it tasted very sharp and fiery, as if the tongue had been struck through with ■something scalding or burning. This sensation went not oft' in two or three hours; in md one gentleman, who would not be satisfied without trying a large drop undiluted, 1 found his tongue swelled with a little inflammation, and the soreness lasted two days. Hi But neither his nor our boldness was attended with any ill consequence.” (p. 22.)] 355. The bite of snakes in hot countries produces the same symptoms as t-those from the viper, but so quickly and so violent that death soon follows, o-especially if any considerable blood-vessel be injured. The remedies re- commended in these wounds, besides the cutting out or destruction of 1 he bitten part with the simultaneous application of the cupping-glass and ugature, are, senega root, fluid alkalies, and especially arsenic in large loses (b). The poison of the more venomous snakes does not always act alike, as will be pre- sently seen by comparing the symptoms enumerated by Dr. B. S. Barton as produced T the rattlesnake, with those resulting from the cobra de capello mentioned by Dr. Patrick Russell. But, though rarely, they are sometimes fatal either immediately, within a few hours, or by the more remotely consequent sloughing of the cellular tissue >1 the limb which the constitution cannot overcome. Barton (c) observes, that “ in those ’< :ases where the poison is applied near to the orifice of an absorbing vessel, we have reason o suppose that it will be conveyed into the mass of blood with great celerity.” (p. 106.) ( Rat, unfortunately, cases sometimes occur in which this active matter is thrown imme- uately into a vein or artery. When this happens, the effects of the poison will be more 13 (n) Researches on the In lluonee of Atmospheric l Qo?urn uPon the Blood in the Veins. London, y 3-t). 8vo. (&) Ireland, Some Account of the F.fTects of rsemc in counteracting the Poison of Serpents; 1 « Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. ii. p. :}98. (c) An Account of the most Effectual Means of Preventing the Deleterious Consequences of the Bite of the Crotnlvs horridus; in Trans, of the American Philosophical Society, vol. iii. Phila- delphia, 1793. 2 a 2