729 OPERATION. “ In speaking of large abscesses which sometimes form high up by the side of the rectum and above the sphincter muscle, Brodie makes the following excellent observa- tions :—“ When the existence of such an abscess is ascertained, you ought without delay ( to puncture it; otherwise not only will the patient havt to undergo a great deal of unnecessary pain, but the abscess will extend itself in the pelvis until it attains an enormous size. You must ascertain the situation of the abscess, by observing to what part the pain is referred, and by examining the rectum with the finger. Then introduce a lancet through the external skin by the side of the anus, in the direction of the abscess, until the matter flows. Frequently the abscess is at such a depth that the lancet does not reach it until nearly the whole of the blade has penetrated the soft parts; and some- times an ordinary lancet is scarcely of sufficient length to accomplish what is wanted. You are then to introduce a probe-pointed bistoury through the opening thus made, aud divide the rectum at the lower part of the abscess, carrying the incision downwards, so as to include the sphincter ani muscle, as you would in au ordinary case of fistula. These incisions make a free opening into the abscess, which is immediately emptied of its contents. The wound is then to be dressed in the ordinary way, and nothing more is wanted. It is quite unnecessary, in these cases, to lay the whole abscess open into the rectum; the free division of it at the lower part is sufficient; aud if the incision were to extend further, it might give rise to a dangerous haemorrhage from large blood-vessels beyond the reach of the finger. I have met with abscesses, such as I have now described, containing from half a pint to a pint of matter. I have had no opportunities of dissec- tion so as to ascertain their exact locality; but from examinations made with the finger, after they have been opened, I am led to suspect that their usual situation is between the levator ani muscle and the pelvis, and that the division of the lower part of this muscle, as well as that of the whole of the sphincter ani, is necessary to the cure. “ These large pelvic abscesses occur in some instances as the original and only malady. In other cases, as I explained in my last lecture, they are the result of an abscess lower down, or a common fistula. I have met with several cases such as I am about to describe. I have been consulted concerning a fistula near the lower part of the rectum, which I have layed open in the usual manner. But, after some time, I have found that the parts showed no disposition to heal, or that they healed imperfectly, and that there was a discharge of pus much greater than could be accounted for from the apparent extent of the sore surface. I have thus been led to make a further examination; and at the upper part of the sinus which had been previously laid open, I have discovered a small orifice, through which a long probe might be passed to a great depth. I have laid open the lower part of this upper abscess into the rectum, and could then introduce my finger so as to feel the broad inner surface of the pelvis on one side, and what seemed to be the levator ani, on the other. After this second operation, the purulent I discharge has immediately become much reduced in quantity, and in the course of a short time the patient’s cure has been completed.” (p. 186.)] 930. The usual modes of operating- on rectal fistulas are incision and ligature, as the early mode of treatment with the hot iron or caustic is now put aside, and cutting out the fistula must be confined to those cases in which it is connected with scirrhous or carcinomatous degeneration. 931. For the operation on the rectal fistula by cutting a quantity of instruments have been invented, as the syringotome, the curved bistoury, the special apparatus of Drummond, Rettler and Brambilla, the fistula-knife of Pott, Savigni, Remm, Dzondi, and others. But the most simple and certain proceeding is, when, for cutting the wall of the fistula only a common straight bistoury, a grooved yrobe without a blind point, and a wooden gorget are used. After having emptied the rectum with a clyster and removed the hair in the neighbourhood of the fistula, the patient is to be laid in his bed, or on a couch upon the side of the fistula, with the thigh of the affected side stretched out straight, and the other bent towards the pelvis. The grooved probe is to be introduced through the canal of the fistula and its internal opening into the rectum, where it is found by the finger which has been therein introduced. 1 he oiled gorget is then to be passed into the rectum, its hollow directed to- wards the side of the fistula, and the probe pressed against it. T he probe