TOOTH-ACHE. 704 (a) Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. xii. 1816. charcoal and bark, with a not too stiff tooth-brush is best; the mouth should also be frequently rinsed with sage water, and some tincture of myrrh or catechu, partly to improve the smell and partly to harden the gums. 889. If the tooth be painful, the treatment must be, in reference to the causes which produce the pain. The toothache is often of the rheumatic kind, in which it is not merely confined to the affected tooth, but the pain extends, more or less, over all the teeth of the same row, and over half the face. Warmth is here serviceable, covering the affected side of the face with flannel, a blister behind the ear, and if inflammatory irritation be also present, leeches applied to the affected side. The toothache often arises from bits of food remaining in the hollow of the tooth, which must therefore always be examined and freed from such impurities. If, however, the pain continue, its diminution must be attempted by remedies, which either subdue the excited irritability, as rinsing the mouth with warm water with the addition of tincture of opium, the application of cot- ton soaked in the same tincture, an opium pill in the hollow tooth, and the like ; or, to destroy the sensibility, acrid remedies, the setherial oils, kreosote on wool in the tooth, have been used, to which also belong most of the empyreumatic remedies recommended against the toothache. [Tooth-ache commonly so called is much more frequently arising from inflammation of the lining of the socket than from affection of the tooth itself. It is therefore highly necessary to discriminate between the two, as otherwise a good and useful tooth may be drawn which might be saved, simply by repeatedly leeching the gum ; and even when the gum is affected secondarily after caries, the tooth may even then be often preserved by this practice, and the exposed nerve becoming gradually destroyed, the tooth-ache after a time subsides, and the pain of drawing the tooth is spared.—J. F. S. 1 Among the various remedies proposed, Bedingfield (a) advises, as an improvement on smoking tobacco, often used for the tooth-ache, the application of the fumes of hen- bane seed, in the following way :—“ Put from one to two drachms of the seed upon a red-hot iron, or some lighted cinders, and immediately cover them over with a basin. As soon as you suppose the seed to be consumed, and the vessel impregnated with the fumes, place it upon its bottom and fill it with boiling water. The person affected with the tooth-ache is then to inhale the vapour for twenty minutes or half an hour, a blanket or some other covering being previously thrown over the head and shoulders, to prevent its escape.” (p. 492.)] 890. If the pain cannot be in any way removed, or if the diseased tooth produce any ailment of the jaws, lips, or maxillary cavities, and so on, it must be drawn. This is also necessary if a tooth of the first set prevent, the development of the second. If with carious crown the root be sound, the crown may be removed with a pair of sharp nippers or with a fine saw, and the exposed medullary cavity cauterized, which however, is usually only employed in the introduction of a tooth. 891. The proceeding in drawing a tooth varies according as the forceps, the key, the pelican, the punch, or the pyramidal lever be employed. The preference of one or other depends on the condition of the tooth to be drawn, and the individual dexterity of the operator with one or other in- strument. In general, the drawing of a tooth with forceps, is the least painful; it is, however, only applicable to the front, or to loose back teeth. The key is best, for drawing the hind teeth, as it permits the use of greater force, without injury to the other teeth, and has not any rest upon the neighbouring teeth ; the gums are, however, thereby frequently crushed, and the tooth not rarely broken. The pelican acts more safely; it is