FiECULAll FISTULA. 717 913. The cure of biliary fistula requires first, the removal of its usual causes, viz., gall-stones (the existence of which is shown by the careful introduction of a probe.) After which the fistula soon closes of itself. For the removal of the gall-stones, the enlargement of the fistulous orifice is necessary, which is best done with catgut, or with a tent, so as not to destroy the adhesion of the gall-bladder to the peritoneum, under which circumstances effusion of bile into the cavity of the belly would occur. The fistula must be so much enlarged, that a pair of forceps may be in- troduced with the left forefinger, the stone grasped therewith and with- drawn ; in doing this, care must be taken, in moving the forceps about, that no part of the gall-bladder itself be caught hold of. The opening of the fistula should not be closed, so long as gall-stones are believed to be still there ; otherwise the fistula will break out afresh. When all the stones are removed, the fistula usually soon closes with a simple covering band- age; and the scarring may be promoted by careful touching with lunar caustic, and suitable pressure. At the same time such remedies must be employed as will diminish the disposition of the bile to concrete, and will assist nutrition. C.—OF F/ECULAR FISTULA. (Fistula Stercorea, Lat.; Kothjistel, Germ.; Fistulc Stercoraire, Amis contre nature, Fr.) Sabatier, Me'moires sur les Anus contre nature; in Memoires de l’Acade'mie de Chirurg., vol. v. p. 592. Desault, (Euvres Chirurgicales, vol. iii. p. 352. Schmalkalden, Pitds. Kkeysig. Dissert. Nova Methodus intestina uniendi. Vieb., 1798. Travers, Benjamin, An Inquiry into the process of Nature in repairing Injuries of the Intestines, &c. London, 1812. 8vo. Scarpa, Su!1’ Ernie, Memorie Anatomico chirurgiche. Milan, 1809. fol. Translated by Wishart as A Treatise on Hernia, with Notes. Edinburgh, 1814. 8vo. Reisinger, F., Anzeige einer vom Prof. Dupuytren zu Paris erfandenen und mit gluchlichsten Erfolge ausgefiihrten Operationsweise zur Heilung des Anus artificialis, nebst Bemerkungen. Augsburg, 1817. 8vo. With a copper-plate. Nachtrag in Salzb. medic, chirurg. Zeitung, 1818, No. 18, p. 280. Brosse, Beobachtung eines mit der Darmscheere von Hrn. Prof. Ddpuytren in Hotel-Dieu zu Paris augestellten Heilungs versuches eines kiinstlichen Afters ; in Rust’s Magazin, vol. vi. p. 239. Breschet, Anatomisch-chirurgische Betractungen und Beobachtungen iiber die Entstehung, Beschaffenheit und Behandlung des widernaturlichen Afters; in von Graefe und von Walther’s Journal, vol. ii. pt. ii. p. 271, and pt iii. p. 479. Liordat, Dissert, sur le Traitement de l’Anus contre nature. Paris, 1819. Dupuytren, Memoire sur une Me'thode Nouvelle pour traiter les Anus accidentales, lu a l’Academie Royale des Sciences, en Janvier, 1824; in Mem. de EAcad. Roy. de Med., vol. i. Paris. 4to. Also, De l’Anus contre nature, des dispositions anatomiques des effets, du siege du prognostic, du diagnostic et du traitement; in Leqons Orales de Clinique Chirurgicale, vol. ii. p. 193. Reybard, J. F., Memoires sur le Traitement des Plaies des Intestins et des Plaies penc'trantes de Poitrine. Paris, 1827. Hennen, John, Principles of Military Surgery. Third Edition. London, 1830. Svo. Lawrence, William, A Treatise on Ruptures. Fifth Edition. London, 1S38. Teale, T. P., Article Intestinal Fistula ; in Cyclopaedia of Practical Surgery, vol. ii. p. 191. London, 1841. 914. Fcecular Fistula is an old opening' communicating with the cavity of the intestine, which, according to its size, discharges either only