531 OF THE LARYNX-OF THE VERTEBRAS. time dividing the larynx throughout its whole length, and the cartilages are then to be brought into their proper place. The difficulty of breathing being thereby diminished, the edges of the wound are to be brought to- gether with sticking plaster, but if it continue the wound should be left open. In either case inflammation must be prevented or diminished by the strictest antiphlogistic treatment. VI.—OF FRACTURE OF THE VERTEBRA:. (Fractura Vertebrarum, Lat.; Bruch iler Wirbelbeine, Germ.; Fracture de la Co- lonne Vertebrate, Fr.) Cuenotte, F. A. E., Diss. Med.-Chir. sistens casum Subluxationis Vertebrae Dorsi I cum fractura complicatae, post factam repositionem et varia dira symptomata duodecima demum septimana funestae. Argent., 1761- Scemmering, S. T„ Bemerkungen iiber Verrenkung und Bruch des Riickgraths. Berlin, 1793. 8vo. Cooper, Sir Astlet P., Treatise on Dislocations and on Fractures of the Joints, 1822. Also his Lectures on Surgery by Tyrrell. Bell, Sir Charles, On Injuries of the Spine and Thigh-bone. London, 1824. 4to. Wenzel, C., Von den Krankheiten am Riickgrathe. Bamberg, 1824. fol., with eight copper-plates, p. 335. Lisfranc, Histoire generale des Fractures de la Colonne Vertebrate; in his Clinique Chirurgicale, in Re'vue Me'dicale, vol. iv. p. 238. 1825. Lawrence, Will., On Dislocations of the Vertebrae; in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xiii. 1825. Brodie, Sir Benj. C., Pathological and Surgical Observations relating to Injuries of the Spinal Cord; in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xx. 1837. Phillips, Benj., Account of a Case of Fracture and Displacement of the Atlas; in Med.-Chir. Trans , vol. xx. 1837. Lauth, in Me'moires de l’Acade'mie de Medecine, vol. iv. 612. The fracture may occur in the spinous, transverse, or oblique pro- cesses^ or in the vertebra itself. The spinous processes are most subject to fracture, and this may happen without any accompanying injury of the spinal marrow. It is distinguished by the altered direction of the spinous process, by its mobility, and crepi- tation ; it, cannot, however, be decided whether the fracture do not also extend into the body of the bone. [Fracture of the processes alone, so far as I have had opportunity of observing, are certainly of much less frequency than fracture of the body of the vertebra, which may sometimes, though not always, accompany. I do not think I have seen fracture of the spinous processes alone more than twice. The mobility of the spinous process, but not alteration of its direction, which may be or not when it is broken oft the arch, is its principal indication, and distinguishes it from fracture through the body, in which the spinous process always sinks and is immovable. It may be accompanied with con- cussion, or compression of the spinal cord by blood within the vertebral canal, and thereby simulating, the usual symptoms resulting from bony compression of the cord in fracture through the body, with its displacement, is very liable to be mistaken for it; but the regularity of the ridge of the spinous processes, generally existing, points out the difference.—J F. S.] 613. Fracture of the body of a vertebra is rare (1), on account of its deep seat, its shortness and thickness, and the mobility of the whole spinal column. It can only be produced by very great violence, and is then 2 m 2