TREATMENT BY LIGATURE. 733 into its eye. In the same way, in complete fistula, silkworm gut may be introduced into the rectum, and by it the thread carried in. 937. For tying' complete or inwardly blind fistulas which extend very high up, Desault, Reisinger, as well as Weidmann, Schkeger, and I Demme have proposed particular apparatus, of which that of Reisinger is preferable. It consists of a blunt silver tube and a probe, providedwith a i trocar point, which fits the tube, of a watch-spring, which in front has a button and behind an eye, and of a pair of forceps with a movable gorget. 938. In a complete rectal fistula, Reisinger’s apparatus is to be used in the following manner : — The patient being put in the same position as for i cutting, the silver tube with its ensheatlied probe is to be passed through the fistula into the rectum for about three lines’ length, which is ascer- tained by the finger already there. The forceps having been oiled are then introduced into the rectum without the gorget, opened, and passed > somewhat deeper in, that the tube may project between the arms of the forceps and be held fast by them. An assistant then removes the probe from the tube and passes in the watch-spring, which is provided with the liga- ture, through the tube into the rectum. As the watch-spring projects from the tube, it must be seized with the forceps, which, being closed, are J drawn back, so that the watch-spring is drawn out of the anus, after it the ligature, and then the tube is to be removed. In a fistula of the rectal sheath the tube must he brought through the sheath and the . fistulous opening into the rectum, and then treated in exactly the same way. Accord - i ing to Mott (a) a seton should be first introduced into this kind of fistula, and left J there for some days; a thread is then to be drawn through the fistulous opening, and by means of an eyed needle the ends found in the sheath are to be drawn through the * perinccum and the two ends tied together, as in rectal fistula. 939. In an inwardly blind fistula, the tube with its probe is to be : carried by the fistulous canal to its very bottom, the blunt probe re- moved, and the trocar-pointed one introduced, without projecting it from the tube. The forceps, opened, are then passed with the gorget into the rectum about an inch above the tube, and both instruments inclined towards ! each other so that the tube becomes situated between the arms of the forceps. The assistant now thrusts the trocar-point out of the tube, by which the rectum is perforated and the trocar-point between the forceps’ I arms pressed against the gorget, so that the latter may recede from the forceps. The tube being then kept pressed against the gorget, an assistant draws out the trocar, and by means of the forefinger of the hand holding the forceps, the gorget is withdrawn, and removed from the forceps, which are then closed and the tube held by them. The watch-spring is then introduced through the tube, and proceeded with as already described. 940. The two ends of the thread introduced, are passed into the two openings of a small silver tube, and tied with a simple knot and loop, so tight that the patient may feel a degree of pressure but no pain. For the first day he must keep quiet, but afterwards may go about his usual business. Every three or four days the knot should be tightened as already directed ; and care must be taken for the daily passage of soft motions. If much pain arise, the ligature must be tied more loosely, but in other respects the treatment is to be, as after the operation of cutting. 1 he same mode of treatment is to be continued till the partition of the fistula is divided. In order to prevent the destruction of the ligature, at the (a) Gazette Medicate de Paris, 1841. No. 18.