534 VERTEBRAE, FRACTURES than half an inch; and in these cases the spinous process of the projecting vertebra presses less or more the spinal marrow between itself and the back of the body of the lower vertebra. The least displacement of the vertebral body occurs in the neck • and indeed in the upper part of the neck scarcely happens. Fracture of the spine may, however, exist without displacement, and without symp- toms, even if the atlas be the fractured bone, as in the elder Cline’s Case.—“ A girl received a severe blow upon her neck ; after which it was observed, that whenever she wanted to look at any object, either above or below her, she always supported her head with her hands, and then gradually and carefully elevated or depressed it, according as she wished, towards the object. After any sudden shock, she used to run to a table and placing her hands under her chin, rested them against the table until the agitation occasioned by the concussion had subsided. Twelve months after the accident the child died, and on examination a transverse fracture of the atlas was found, but no displace- ment. When the head was depressed or elevated, the dentiform process of the second vertebra became displaced, carrying with it a portion of the atlas, occasioning pressure on the spinal marrow, which was also produced by any violent agitation” (a). Phiilips’s case of fracture of the atlas, and of the pivot of the axis, has been already mentioned by Chelius ; but he has omitted to state the very remarkable posi- tion and condition of the parts as found on examination. “ The condyles of the occiput still rested upon the articulating surfaces of the atlas, but the atlas was found to be, not a separate and independent vertebra, but an appendix to the axis. So much of its ante- rior portion as includes the surfaces by which it is articulated with the occiput and with the axis, had been violently separated from the posterior portion of its ring, and had been carried in an oblique direction downwards and forwards until it arrived upon the same plane, but anterior to the axis, to the body and transverse processes of which it became attached by the perfect bony union, whilst the posterior fragment had suffered no displacement.” (p. 82.) The following instance of fracture, without displacement of the atlas and axis, occurred in St. Thomas’s Hospital, and the preparation is in the museum there:— Case.—W. T., aged sixty-eight years, was admitted into George’s Ward. Nov. 10, 1838. Having fallen down stairs a few hours before his admission and been stunned. Has pain at the back of his neck, which is increased by pressure. All his limbs, except the left lower extremity, which still retains slight motion, are palsied. The sensibility of the whole right side of the body is morbidly acute; that of the left totally destroyed, excepting on the belly, where he feels slightly, and to which he refers a sensation of numbness when the left thigh is pinched. Next day he complained of pain in the right arm ; the skin on the left side of the belly is less sensible. On the third day the morbid sensibility of the right side had diminished, and sensation had slightly returned on the left. Complains of pain in the right hypochondrion, and fan- cies his arms lie across his chest. On the following day the belly became tympanitic. On the fifth day there was slight motion of the left arm, and the capability of moving the right leg had increased ; but he was rapidly sinking, although in good heart, and died, late at night. On examination it was found that the atlas was broken in two places, the line of fracture being diagonal, and traversing the left vertebral hole. The pivot of the axis was broken oft' at its root, and a small piece of the body also. The fifth vertebra was fractured through the body. With neither fracture was there suffi- cient displacement to produce pressure. On cutting through the spinal cord, a central cell was found containing a small quantity of blood, and the substance of the cord broken down and disorganized, opposite the fifth vertebra. On the other hand, dislocation of one vertebra from another, either partial or com- plete, may occur without fracture, but is so extremely rare, that, as regards dislocation of the body, Delpech (b) entirely denies it; Abernethy (c) declares :—“ There can be no dislocation (of the vertebra•) surgically speaking—we do not take the word in its etymological sense; in surgical language, a dislocation is a displacement of bone, with a laceration of ligament unaccompanied -with fracture, for if there be a fracture it is not a dislocation; but from their position, if one vertebra be knocked in, its articular surfaces must be broken.” Astley Cooper (d) says:—“ If luxation of the spine ever does happen, it is an injury which is extremely rare, as in the numerous instances which I have seen of violence done to the spine, I have never witnessed a separation of one vertebra from another, through the intervertebral substance, without fracture of the articular processes ; or if those processes remain unbroken, without a fracture through (а) Astlky Cooper's Lectures, vol. ii. p. 8. (c) MS. Lectures. (б) Precis Elcmentaire des Maladies reputces (d) Above quoted. Chirurgicales, vol. iii. p. 42.