MODE OF UNION—CALLUS. 499 sequence in children than in adults, partly on account of predominating reproduction, and partly on account of the less contractile power of the muscles. In more advanced age reproduction already has declined, and phosphate of lime is very largely deposited in the bony tissue; hence the fracture heals with more difficulty. All diseases which alter the nutrition of bone, {par. 575,) as well also as a great degree of weakness, more or less prevent the cure of the fracture. Although pregnancy, in so far as the living activity is then concentrated at another point, may retard or hinder the firm union of the ends of the bone, yet numerous observations show that in general this is not the case. 578. When the ends of the fracture are early brought into a corre- sponding position, and there retained, they unite in the same way as divided soft parts, {par. 272,) that is, the ends of the bone inflame, are glued i < together by a gelatinous substance, and the vessels shoot into this connecting vi mass; the connexion is at first yielding, till by deposition of phosphate of lime it becomes hard. For the first ten or twelve days there is swelling of the soft parts, which gradually subsides, and then a circumscribed swelling ■ remains around the ends of the bone. Hitherto the patient feels crepita- tion at every motion. Between the twelfth and twentieth day, it may be t ascertained that the ends of the bone are actually connected, although only 1 slightly and flexibly. Gradually the union becomes firmer, and between i the thirtieth and sixtieth day motion ceases. The earlier opinions which have been advanced regarding the structure of the mass ill (callus) that connects the ends of the fracture, are more or less one-sided and partially i false, as sometimes they have derived it from a secreted glutinous and gradually hardened matter, sometimes from organization and ossification of the blood; sometimes from i ; scarring and ossifying of the periosteum or of the medullary membrane, sometimes from ! the production of granulations. The union of the ends of the fracture must be accom- i panied with those of the divided soft parts, only that in the former the connecting inter- i < substance undergoes the same changes as the formation of bone in its natural develop- ment. The processes which take place on the ends of the fracture are (as experiments i on animals prove) the following: effusion of blood occurs in the cellular tissue, to a 4 greater or less extent, covers the muscles and the fracture, is firmly attached to the ends t of the fracture and seems to proceed especially from the medullary canal and periosteum. ! The blood gradually becomes paler and tougher, the periosteum swells and reddens, and |r> beneath, as well as subsequently out of tbe medullary canal, a jelly-like mass capable of | being drawn into threads is deposited. The swollen soft parts are daily connected more ( firmly by the intersubstance, which presents a soft reddish and externally fibro-carti- laginous tissue through which the aponeuroses and muscles pass, and in which the peri- n osteum attaches itself, or is formed by the surrounding muscles and cellular tissue. In n this mass bony points are first produced, at the greatest distance from the fracture, and ( the middle of the callus is at last ossified. The new bony mass is more firm than the rest, I though this does not depend on its own greater firmness, but on the mechanical relations of the shell of the bone becoming thicker and thicker by the deposition of bone ; the 1 medullary cavity is also usually filled -with it, although subsequently the bony canal is partially reproduced. As, however, broken bones are united by actual bony tissue, so, after the perfect ossification, there can be no question of peculiar callus and of dif- ferent structure and substance from the original bone. The structure of new bone varies in part according to the period of its growth, partly according to the perfection or im- perfection of its condition, as observed in preparations. T. Dcpuytren distinguished, according to the above-described symptoms, two periods m the formation of bone. In the earlij period, the ends of the fracture are retained as m a brace, by the softened periosteum and swollen soft parts, and by the new bone de- I posited from the periosteum and medullary membrane, whilst the intermediate substance attains the condition of fibro-cartilage. This state, continuing to the thirtieth or fortieth # day, he calls provisional callus. In the subsequent period, the ossification of the carti- u' aginous intersubstance takes place, not before the fourth or sixth mouth ; absorption i 5rst removes the swelling of the soft parts, and then, after from six to twelve months, 2 k 2