TREATMENT. 7 23 3 a 2 bottom of the artificial anus, the more favourable is the prognosis. If thick probes (female catheters) be used for examination, they must be connected externally together after their introduction into the upper and lower end of the intestine, and turned upon their axes, which movement is opposed by the partition. When the ends of the intestine are disco- vered, the arms of the intestinal scissors should be so introduced into both ends of the gut upon the finger, or on the hollow sound, that when closed at least two and a half inches of the partition shall be taken hold of. The same turn is to be made with the introduced arms of the scissors as with the sounds, to ascertain that they have entered completely. By the screw on the handle of the scissors, they are to be closed only sufficiently to produce a little pain; the handle of the forceps is to be wrapped in linen and fastened to a T bandage. Every day, or every two days, the forceps are to be screwed a little tighter. If little pain follow it is well, but if severe the forceps must be loosened. The patient must take light nourishment, and soothing clysters may be given. Against pain in the belly, oily mixtures, soothing clysters, and applications are to be used, and in inflammatory symptoms, the proper antiphlogistic remedies. According to Dupuytren’s observations, however, these symptoms rarely occur. Dupuytren’s first intestinal scissors crossed each other with a disjoinable lock ; but Seiler has modified them by making the arms parallel (a). Liordat’s emporte-piece, for the purpose of removing a larger piece of the par- tition (6). Reybard (c) seizes the partition between the upper and lower end of the intestine with forceps, and divides it by pushing forward his enterotome. The forceps are left attached to produce the union of the corresponding wounds of the intestine. Delpech’s enterotome (d) differs from that of Dufuytren in each of its branches, being a little curved, and ending in an oval plate an inch in length. When introduced and brought together by the screw, in consequence of the curved form of the branches, such portion only of the intestinal partition is compressed as is enclosed between the two plates. The object is to destroy a smaller portion of the partition at one time, and to repeat the process until a sufficient opening shall be made in it. The form of the opening, Delpech also holds to be preferable to the lengthened slit made by Dcpuy- tren’s instrument. Desault was aware of the partition between the two ends of the intestine preventing the passage of the excrement, and endeavoured to retract and diminish the protrusion, partly by closing the external opening with a plug, partly by the introduction of long rolls of eharpie into the two ends of the gut, which he gradually brought straight, pressed back, and diminished. With the same object Senwalkaluen (e) made an opening into the projecting partition, which he endeavoured to preserve by introducing tents, and by careful notching, to increase and establish the natural passage for the excrement. [Our American brethren seem disconcerted at the invention of this mode of treat- ment being generally assigned to Dupuytren. After referring to Desault’s prac- tice just mentioned, Dr. Gibson (f) observes :—“ A more expeditious and less trouble- some operation was proposed and successfully executed by Dr. Physick between the years 1808 and 1809. * * * An operation similar to that of Dr. Piiysick was after- wards performed by Dupuytren in Paris, and to him the merit of the proposal is awarded by European writers without the slightest foundation.” (p. 316.) Now cer- tainly, though our French neighbours are occasionally not particular in claiming that to which they are not strictly entitled, yet in the present instance, whatever may have been awarded to Dupuytren, he himself mentions in a note to his Memoir, Scbmalkalden’s dissertation, though without giving particulars, and also specially quotes Dr. Piiysick's plan of treatment from Dorsey’s Elements of Surgery, vol. ii. p. 67. He is therefore, so far at least as Dr. Physick is concerned, entirely free from misappropriation. It cannot, however, be denied that Piiysick’s account is merely the recital of a case and of a novel operation for its relief, without entering into the consideration of the nature and (n) Seiler, above cited, pi. vi. f. 14. (e) Above cited. (6) Above cited. (r) Above cited. (/) Institutes and Practice of Surgery, vol. ii. (d) Froriep’s Notizen, No. 583. p. 109.—Chi- Philadelphia, 1S27. rurgische Kupfertafeln, pi. cclxviii.