373 COMPLETE EXCISION OF WOUND. dog, and will come into contact with the virus, and will probably be contaminated, and will then overflow the original wound, and will be received into the new incision, and will carry with it the seeds of disease and death; therefore it is, that scarcely a year passes without some lamentable instances of the failure of incisions. It has occurred in the practice of the most eminent surgeons, and seems scarcely or not all to impeach the skill of the operator. Aware of this, there are very few human practitioners who do not use the caustic after the knife. Every portion of the new wound is submitted to its influence. They do not consider the patient to be safe without this second opera- tion. But has the question never occurred to them, that if the caustic is necessary to give security to the operation by incision, the knife might have been spared, and the caustic alone used?”(pp. 146-7.) I do not, however, think his objections to the removal of the parts by the knife are sufficient, neither do I believe there is so much to be feared as he suspects of the contamination of the blood by the virus. I have no doubt that when the disease appears after excision has been performed, that it is because all the infected part has not been removed, the surgeon having cut neither sufficiently widely above nor below the wound. If the operation be not performed immediately, or within a very few hours, it is absolutely necessary that all the skin which has an inflamed appearance should be removed ; and, as the operation even in the best hands is frequently a niggling and tedious business, and the blood smeared over the skin tinges it so that the precise extent of the inflammatory blush is rendered indistinct, a part of the irritated or inflamed skin is easily left behind, and with it perhaps the seeds of the disease. To prevent this serious difficulty my esteemed master, Henry Cline, was accustomed to give directions for the performance of this operation which seemed trivial and useless, but were far otherwise; for in the treatment of the bite no attention, however minute, can be too great. He directed that to prevent the possibility of any reddened and inflamed skin u being left behind, it should be encircled with a ring made with lunar caustic, the speedy blackening of which marked the whole part to be removed, and the incision to li be made around and clear of such ring. To remove the very bottom of the wound a probe or a skewer was to be thrust down as far as possible, and then all the soft parts l*i carefully cut round it, so that they might be brought out like a glove-finger upon the probe or skewer, without cutting into the wound. This plan is that which I have ' adopted in the opportunities which I have had in operating early on these cases, and I ■ believe it to be the only safe proceeding, and the only way by which the whole of the infected part can be surely determined to have been removed. The subsequent free application of caustic potash is also advisable, as being the most sure means of de- stroying any small quantity of the poison which may have been smeared over the fresh wound during the operation, or which may have escaped the knife. I do not believe that there is any danger of “ the virus being suspended, or lying in the caustic, potash, or nitric acid, (if that be used,) or of it being precipitated upon the living fibre beneath,” (p. 147,) as Youatt fears. The caustic of either kind must destroy the virus with which i i it comes in contact, as completely if not more so than the lunar caustic, the use of which Youatt advocates. And it fails, when it does fail, because it does not find its way • ' into every crack and cranny into which the poison has found its way. The knife is always to be used, where there is plenty to cut away, as in fleshy parts, but in wounds, or rather superficial scratches with the teeth upon the face, some Bur- s' i geons prefer using caustic potash. I would not even on the face, however, make an ex- ception to the use of the knife, for to do any real good, a scar, often a large one, must i be made, and as it is of no consequence by what means this is produced, the knife is pre- ferable. If the lip were bitten, I should consider it right to remove its entire thickness by the same operation as for hare-lip; and if the cheek I should not hesitate as the safest and surest proceeding to cut the whole part through into the mouth, and then there would be neither difficulty nor danger in bringing the edges of the wound together with pins, and confining them with the twisted suture. If the finger, hand, or foot, were bitten i through, I myself would readily submit to amputation of the injured part. No opera- tion can be considered unadvisable, or too severe, which will give a patient the slightest chance of security from this most dreadful disorder. Half measures on the part of the medical attendant are here actually criminal, and no surgeon who has once witnessed • awfully horrible and hopeless condition of a hydrophobic patient, will, I am sure, |if he do his duty, neglect this the most sure remedy he can employ to ward off the possibility of the poison being retained in the system. My friend Sams tells me, that he knew a young lady in India twenty years ago, who 1 when a child, three years of age, was bitten in the neck, just above the insertion of the ”i. trapezius, by a mad pariah dog. The station where she lived was fort}' miles distant K ifrom a medical man; but before his arrival, her father, a civilian, with much presence