TREATMENT 88 the formation of an ugly scar. Neither should abscesses in glands be left to burst, which is often a very tedious process, as the capsule of the gland does not readily ulcer- ate, and will not till the whole, or nearly the whole, gland is destroyed ; a large cavity is thus formed, which is generally very difficult to heal, as it assumes oftentimes a fistulous character. It is therefore always best to puncture a glandular abscess as soon as the capsule and the skin have become adherent, and the angry appearance of the latter indicates its disposition to ulcerate. But it is not unfrequently advisable to open such abscesses before the skin reddens, or even before it is adherent; for, in scrofulous and chronic abscesses, there is often little and sometimes no redness of the skin, and yet, the collection of pus increasing, the skin becomes stretched beyond endurance, and sloughing ensues.—J. F. S.] ° 54. The opening of abscesses (Oncotomia) is effected either by a cutting instrument, by escharotics, or by seton. That point is preferred for opening where the fluctuation is most distinct and the skin thinnest; but, if the skin is everywhere equally thin, then the lowest part is pre- ferred. The size of the opening depends on the extent of the abscess, and should always be such that the pus will flow without hinderance. An aperture of five to eight lines long is generally sufficient; an opening of an inch and a half must be the extreme for an abscess of large size. It must be recollected, however, that the skin, distended by the pus, will contract after its evacuation, and thereby the aperture will be rendered smaller than was intended. 55. The cutting instrument is used in the following manner : the blade of the lancet being held with the finger and thumb of the right hand, sufficiently far from the point to permit of its entrance into the cavity of the abscess, and the skin covering the abscess being stretched by the fingers of the left hand, the lancet is to be thrust perpendicularly or obliquely in till the pus, oozing up by its sides, shows that the cavity of the abscess has been opened; and the aperture is to be increased to a proper size by raising the point of the lancet as it is withdrawn. If the abscess be deep and the coverings thick, it should be opened with a bistoury, which, being held like a pen, is to be thrust into the abscess in the direction of the riiuscular fibres, and the opening is to be enlarged on bringing it out. If the abscess be very deep, and in the neighbourhood of important parts, it is most advisable to divide the parts covering it by re- peated cuts, and with the fore finger of the left hand to feel in the wound at which point the fluctuation is most perceptible. This precaution is specially to be recommended in deep abscesses of the coverings of the belly and chest. After opening an abscess the pus must be allowed to flow out gradually of itself, or it may be assisted by gentle pressure ; everything which can interfere with its escape must be avoided, the aperture of the abscesses should not by any means be stopped up, but only covered lightly with charpie and a warm moist poultice, or merely with the latter. [Pressing and squeezing abscesses, for the purpose of emptying after they have been punctured cannot be too much deprecated. Unnecessary pain is inflicted on the patient by the rough handling, which bruises the distended and still inflamed walls of the abscess. One object in making the puncture is to relieve the tension of the adjacent parts, and the escape of a very small quantity of pus immediately effects this. But the abscess empties itself sufficiently quickly by the simple contractibility of the skin, which gently presses out the fluid contents with little or no pain to the patient. It not unfrequently happens that if the walls of the abscess be thick, the clean cut edo-es of the puncture are found adherent, and the aperture closed within twenty-four hours. The adhesions, however, are easily broken through, and the opening re-esta- blished by a little gentle pressure on the abscess. But I think it preferable, after making