193 WHITLOW. l1'1 u ' i t Hunter gives the following reasons (the correctness of which must be readily ad- mitted) why the abscesses “ about the nails, commonly called whitlows, more especially in working people, give so much pain in the time of inflammation, and are so long in breaking, even after the matter has got through the cutis to the cuticle ; the thickness of the cuticle, as also the rigidity of the nail, acting in those cases like a tight bandage, which does not allow them to swell or give way to the extravasation; for in the cuticle there is not the relaxing power, which adds considerably to the pain arising from the inflammation; but when the abscess has reached to this thick cuticle it has not the power of irritation, and therefore acts only by distension ; and this is, in most cases, so consi- derable as to produce a separation of the cuticle from the cutis for a considerable way round the abscess.” (p. 469.) * * * “ All of which circumstances taken together, make these complaints much more painful than a similar-sized abscess in any of the soft parts.” (p. 469.)] Second. When the inflammation is situated in the cellular tissue beneath the skin, and commonly at the bulbous end of the finger, the pain is very severe on account of the tension of the thickened skin. If the inflammation pass into suppuration, fluctuation cannot readily be perceived, and the pus makes itself an outlet with difficulty. [This form might not inaptly be called Paronychia cellulosa, as, in the inflamed cellular tissue of other parts, the inflammation is disposed to spread; the whole finger often becomes affected, and the disease occasionally extends into the hand itself. The severity of the pain is great, because, as Le Dran observes, “ the skin of the finger is of very close texture, and therefore cannot yield to the increased size of the inflamed parts which it encloses, consequently the tension, pain, and fever are more violent.” (p. 414; Fr. edit, p. 542.)] Third. If the inflammation be situated in the sheaths of the tendons, the pain, which is specially situated on the front of the finger, is very severe, and strikes up through the whole arm to the shoulder ; upon the finger only a slight swelling is to be observed, but it spreads so much the more over the greater part of the hand to the wrist, and even to the fore arm. Severe fever usually accompanies it. If the thumb, fore, or middle finger be attacked, the pain ascends outwards upon the front of the hand; but, if the ring or little finger be attacked, then the pain is continued along the ulnar surface to the elbow-joint and up to the arm-pit. When suppuration occurs, fluctuation is not distinguishable on account of the deep situation of the pus. The inflammation readily spreads to the periosteum, and destruction of the phalanges often ensues. [This form is Abernethy’s Paronychia tendinosa. Travers (a) observes that “ this, the case of acute paronychia,” as he calls it, “ is frequently accompanied with absorbent inflammation, but not invariably; nor is it on this account more serious. Matter is secreted by the inflamed synovial surface of the tendinous sheath, or the particular fascia investing the tendinous extremity of a muscle of the arm or leg; or beueath a ligamentous expansion, as the palmar or plantar aponeu- rosis.” Sometimes the symptoms supervene in a few hours after the injury, sometimes not for days, so that the patient scarcely recognises the injury, usually a small penetrat- ing wound. If the wounded thumb or finger is disfigured by excessive oedema, the symptoms of disturbance are less severe than when, with great tension, the swelling is inconsiderable and void of fluctuation, so as to make the existence of matter doubtful. The quantity of pus is so small, and the relief of discharging it so great, as to demonstrate that its situation alone had given rise to the intense pain. Is it owing to the partial escape of matter into the cellular substance, or to the inflammation having originally attacked this texture, exterior to the theca or fascia, and affected the interior only by sympathetic connexion, that the symptoms are less urgent when the oedema is present ?” (PP- 216, 17.) Le Dran considers this form of whitlow to differ from the preceding in not being consequent on phlegmonous but erysipelatous inflammation : and he does “not think that an erysipelas affecting these parts, and forming a whitlow can proceed from an in- (a) On Constitutional Irritation, parti. VOL. I. O