TREATMENT OF PENETRATING 446 sound on percussion of the chest, increasing- with the increase of extravasa- tion ; the respiratory murmur accompanied with a gurgling murmur, and in a severe case of extravasation subsiding entirely, or perceptible only at the upper part of the chest; a tolerable condition when lying on the back with the chest much raised ; irregular action of the heart and pulse ; loss of sleep ; pale, sparing, and even suppressed urine. The less certain and constant symptoms are, increased expansion of the wounded side of the chest, by which the ribs are separated from each other, and their mobility interfered with ; oedematous swelling of the chest (in some parts at least the muscles appear more full) ; in the greater extent over which the pulsation of the heart can be felt, and its displace- ment to the opposite side by the pressure of the fluid ; a sensation of weight on the chest, or an audible squash on the patient’s motions; a swelling beneath the short ribs and in the region of the belly, from de- pression of the diaphragm ; ecchymosis on the short ribs of the injured side, first occurring some days after the accident; oedema of the hand and foot, and redness of the cheek upon the injured side. 488. The existence of extravasation may be distinguished with certainty when the symptoms described, {par. 487,) or if not all, yet the most part of them appear together, continue, and increase; if they be unaccompanied with any other organic affection, and do not yield to general treatment in the first twenty-four hours. 489. The blood extravasated into the cavity of the chest operates not only as a mechanical hindrance to respiration by compression of the lungs, so that they gradually lose their cellular character, and unite with the pleura; whence it happens that, after long continued extravasation, its discharge is of no use, the lung being no more capable of expanding itself; inflammation of the surface, with which it is in contact, also soon takes place, as the blood operates fatally by its decomposition, though it often continues long in its naturally fluid state. The bleeding must therefore be.stanched, the further extravasation be prevented, and the effusion into the chest removed. [“ In incised or punctured wounds, haemorrhage takes place,” observes Hennen, “ instantaneously, and profusely ; in gun-shot wounds, if the intercostal artery or lungs are only brushed, or some of the more minute vessels opened, it is not so violent; and we have rather to prepare for what may occur on the separation of the eschars, than to combat any existing symptoms, the general tendency to pneumonic inflammation ex- cepted. In the event of secondary bleeding from the lungs themselves, we are in pos- session of no external means for remedying it; but M-henever the tenaculum can be used to an injured intercostal artery, it should at once be applied, and the vessel secured by ligature. Unfortunately, however, we but too often are disappointed in finding the source of the haemorrhage ; and here judicious pressure is our only resource. In some slight injuries I have used the graduated compress with success ; but if the sloughing is extensive, nothing but the finger of an assistant, relieved as often as occassion may re- quire, and pressing direct upon a compress placed along the course of the vessel, or so disposed as to operate upon its bleeding orifice, will be of any avail.” (p. 375.)] 490. It is very difficult in most cases, in many quite impossible, to de- termine the origin of the bleeding in penetrating wounds of the chest. 491. Injury of (he Intercostal Artery may be presumed when the wounded person does not spit blood, and when the symptoms of extravasa- tion are urgent. If the wound be large, bright-red but not frothy blood spirts from the wound in an unbroken stream ; if the finger be put on the point where the artery is wounded, its spirting may be felt. The wound is directed towards the lower edge of the rib.