TREATMENT. 617 caustic, caustic potash, hutyr of antimony, sulphuric acid, sulphate of zinc, burnt alum, and the like These should be especially employed if the fungous growths be equally spread over the whole surface of the ulcer. The dry escharotics may be strewed upon the sore, or applied in form of ointment; the fluid painted on with a pencil after the ulcer has been properly cleared of the effused ichor. The former are more suitable rather in a flabby state of the fungous excrescences, and great secretion of ichor ; the latter in greater firmness of the growth, and less effusion. If the fungus grow only partially from the ulcer, it may be most easily removed with the knife, by cutting it off at the base; by tying, when the fungus ; has a neck, and the patient dreads the knife, and much bleeding is feared from the excision. In those cases in which the remedies prescribed do not effect the destruction of the excrescence, or may produce awkward - symptoms by their fluidity and spreading, if the use of the knife or ligature > be not possible, then the destruction of the fungus is only to be effected by the use of the actual cautery. The bleeding which often arises sponta- neously, or in either of the preceding modes of treatment, from the fungous surface, must be stanched by styptics, compression, actual cautery, or by the entire removal of the fungus. 758. Varicose Ulcers ( Ulcer a varicosa, Lat. ; varicosen Geschumre, I Germ ; Ulceres variqueux, Fr.) occur most commonly in the lower ex- tremities; are for the most part oval and superficial ; their base bluish, their secretion serous and bloody ; the edge in old ulcers mostly callous, and the surrounding skin brown ; accompanied with varicose veins of the leg, especially around the ulcer, and ocdematous swelling. Not unfre- quently do they bleed periodically ; ordinarily they are not painful, but frequently very painful, even without any trace of inflammation. These ulcers are in direct relation to the varicose affection, and all those evils which produce hindrance to the return of the blood, as pressure, con- tinued standing, remaining in warm or cold moisture, must be considered as their cause ; hence certain trades, pressure of the pregnant womb and the like. Predisposition to varicose affections is grounded especially on ple- thora, full juicy lax habit, venous stagnation, and loaded state of the intes- tines ; hEemorrhoidal disposition ; suppressed haemorrhoid and menstruation. Hence it happens that, in many instances, these swellings of the veins are only symptoms of a deeper affection, and may even belong to the relative well-being of the patient. They arise either from accidental injury in existing varicosity, or from the blood-knots running into suppuration ; or other ulcers of a specific character are converted into them. In the treatment of these idcers, their causes must be first attended to; venous stagnation and loaded bowels must be relieved by purging, regu- lation of the mode of life, diminished standing, relief of pressure, and the like. The whole ulcer is to be simply covered with dry charpie ; but the varicose and ocdematous swellings are to be especially counter- acted by swathing with bandages, and by the circular application of sticking plaster. If the cure be effected, its recurrence must be prevented by careful diminution of the occasional causes, with continued swathing by means of laced stockings of dog’s skin (a). The rules already laid down in abscesses (par. G5) apply to the treatment of fistulous ulcers. 759. If the ulcers have existed a long while, and have attained the (fl) Ivothe, Varicose Venen und varicoseGeschwiir an den Unterschenkeln ; in Rust's Mag.,rol.xxx. p.82.