680 TREATMENT OF MERCURIAL DISEASE. For the local treatment, penciling the ulcers with muriatic acid, and gargles of hemlock and honey ; in the eruptions on the skin, sometimes anti- monial, sometimes guiaicum preparations, liq. sapo?t. stibiati, tinct. guiaic. ammon.; in pains of the bones, bark, opium, and aromatic baths. Struve’s hunger-cure has been recommended as a most important remedy, as also the use of sulphur and ferruginous baths. If after the removal of this cachexy syphilis still exist, the red precipitate of mercury, with wood-drinks, is very efficient. Although it is characteristic of the mercurial disease, that it becomes worse under the use of mercury, and although this disease arises by the immoderate use of mercury, without syphilis being present, for instance, from the operation of mercurial vapour, and so on ; yet, how- ever, on the other hand, it is certain, that it frequently is only the con- sequence of immoderate and improper mercurial treatment, of a repeated suppression of the syphilitic disease, which however continues only under an altered form ; a methodical suitable mercurial treatment is therefore capable of curing both the mercurial disease and the syphilis. From my own experience, I must give the preference to Zittmann’s decoction be- fore all other treatment (a). Schmalz has, in electrifying patients, in whom it could not be made out, which was to be considered the consequence of syphilis, or which of the immoderate and improper use of mercury, observed salivation occur without further employment of mercury, and to such an extent, that severe mercurial fever and profuse sweating came on at the fifteenth day. He administered the electric aura to the patient either by a dome placed on his head, or put the chain into his hand, and continued the electric stream at first only for a quarter of an hour. Therewith also he gave water-gruel, with medicine twice a day; took care to keep the bowels open, and to preserve the warm temperature of the chamber, which the patient was not allowed to leave (b). [(1) “ To prevent the dangerous consequences of this diseased state (Erethismus tner- curialis) the patient ought to discontinue the use of the mercury,” says John Pearson; “ nor is this rule to be deviated from, whatever may be the stage, or extent, or violence of the venereal symptoms ; the impending destruction of the patient forms an argument paramount to all others. * * * The patient must be expressly directed to expose himself freely to a dry and cool air, in such a manner as shall be attended with the least fatigue. It will not be sufficient to sit in a room with the windows open ; he must be taken into a garden or a field, and live as much as possible in the open air until the beforementioned symptoms be considerably abated. The good effect of this mode of treatment, conjoined with a generous course of diet, will be soon manifested; and I have frequently seen patients so far recovered in the space of from ten to fourteen days, that they could safely resume the use of mercury, and, what may appear remarkable, they can very often employ that specific efficiently afterwards without suffering any in- convenience. * * * In the early stage the farther progress of mercurial erethismus may be frequently prevented by giving the camphor mixture, with large doses of volatile alkali, at the same time suspending the use of mercury.” (p. 157-159.) “ As a general rule,” in Eczema mercuriale, says Pearson, “ I would premise that the administration of mercury must be discontinued on the first appearance of the erup- tion. The Eczema mercuriale certainly admits of a natural cure, not only when it affects the body partially, but when it is universal; yet, although the troublesome symptoms which arise may be relieved by their proper remedies, I am doubtful whether any plan of treatment has the power of interrupting its regular course, or abridging its duration. I have been confirmed in this opinion of the inefficiency of any medical aid in curing the disease, in the proper sense of the term, by observing that under all the various modes of treatment which I employed, this disease, like some of the exanthemata, pur- sued its usual mode of progress, without undergoing any apparent change, either in the number of its essential symptoms, or in the comparative mildness and continuance of them.” (pp. 176, 177.) Pearson, however, thinks the patient may derive advantage from medical treatment, so that his general health should not suffer material or per- manent injury; and recommends antimonial powder and saline draughts, or liquor of («) Wedemeier, above cited. (6) Froriep’s Notizen, 1826, Oct., p. 207.—Hecken’s lit. Annalen, Mai, 1827, p. 107.