174 TREATMENT OF GONOKRHCEA; bichlond. gr.f, aq. 3iij., and gradually increased up to half a grain to an ounce, (p. 272.) A generous diet is necessary in cases where the gleet continues, and not unfrequently it is found advantageous for the patient to take wine. Balsam of copaiva, either in mixture or in capsules, is often very serviceable in addition to injections, of which I prefer that of nitrate of silver. When the gleet continues very obstinate, there is reason to suppose, as stated by Hunter, that stricture exists, and it is then necessary to use the bougie. Ricord mentions that “ inoculation of a new gonorrhoea has been advised, and is still perpetrated by many practitioners, either to cure a chronic discharge, or to combat, by revulsion, symptoms which gonorrhoea may produce, such as epididymitis, ophthalmia, &c. Some, in this case are content with advising a new infecting coition ; others make a kind of inoculation with the muco-pus of gonorrhoea, carried on a probe into the urethra, or applied to the mucous membrane it is wished to infect, by means of a bit of lint which is impregnated with it. * * * However, were I not convinced that the cases in which it is useful to recall an old discharge, or develop a new one, are as rare as some persons think them frequent, and that they have either aggravated the disease they wish to com- bat, or given it a new complication, I would not apply the muco-pus of a gonorrhoea of one individual to another before having ascertained, upon the one from whom it is taken, that it produces nothing when inoculated with the lancet; otherwise, without this pre- caution, a patient with gonorrhoeal symptoms might be affected with masked chancres, (ichancres larvds,) and communicate to an individual, who till then had only a simple catarrhal affection, without further consequences, all the formidable chances of syphilis.” (p. 89 ; Fr. edit., pp. 188, 9.) I have noticed these proposals for the cure of obstinate gleet, or other consequence of gonorrhoea, merely to point out their absurdity; as I presume no one, excepting those whose treatment of disease is founded on the similia similibus, eadem iisdern principle, could seriously think of adopting them. The moral conduct involved in the attempt to acquire a new gonorrhoea to put an end to an old one, is about on a par with that of commerce with an uninfected person for the same purpose, (a vulgar notion which was formerly held,) and the benefit from either alike.—J. F. S.j 167. The mode of treating gonorrhoea already mentioned is founded upon the various degrees and nature of this complaint. Of late cubebs have been recommended by many practitioners as the most effectual remedy against it, and, according to my own experience, I must accede to the good report of it given by others, and especially by Delpech. This remedy ope- rates upon the gonorrhoea not merely, as many suppose, when the inflamma- tory period has passed over, but it performs its good offices in every stage of the disease. The principal point in the use of cubebs is, that they should be genuine, and given in sufficiently strong doses. With small doses of cubebs the gonorrhoea is commonly increased. At the onset, at least half an ounce a day should be given, which should be much increased if no special symptoms ensue. In many cases Delpech gave four doses daily of two or three drachms each without producing any peculiar symp- toms ; it is, however, better to divide the doses and give them more fre- quently. If required to act briskly and for some time, it is most advisable to give a dose every three or four hours, and meal times should be regu- lated accordingly, or a dose taken even during the night. The usual con- sequence of this remedy is a gentle warmth in the belly, not always ac- companied by an increase of thirst, which generally ceases in a few days, even when the dose of cubebs is increased. If therefore this symptom pass by, it is not necessary to discontinue the remedy ; but, if it continue, and pain in the belly be produced, the doses must be diminished to two or three ; it may then do good, but its operation on the disease is more tedious. In many cases the remedy produces frequent, thin stools with or without pain in the belly, very rarely accompanied with tenesmus, but never with discharge of bloody mucus. In such cases the remedy must be withheld,