WOUNDS OF THE REGION OF THE 428 ration, their dressing consists only in covering them simply with masses of charpie, fastened with sticking plaster. Wounds in the region of the eyebrows often cause blindness or weakness of sight: 1. From concussion of the nervous coat (retina) of the eye. Amaurosis appears in this case directly after the injury, and the iris is completely motionless. This amaurosis frequently subsides of itself, or by the use of purgatives. If the concussion produce tearing of the retina, extravasation takes place in the chamber of the eye, deep-seated pain, extraordinary sensibility of the eye on the slightest touch, complete blindness, in this case incurable, and especially indicating a strict antiphlogistic treatment for the prevention of inflammation. 2. From bruising and imperfect tearing of the great branches of the frontal nerve. Hence, also, follows diminution of the powers of sight, sometimes at once, sometimes later. The place and condition of the wound must lead the surgeon in his diagnosis. The frontal nerve must then be cut through on the upper eyelid, and the wound treated according to the general rules. 3. From dragging of the frontal nerve, as consequent on the formation of a scar. The diagnosis is clear, on account of the subsequent occurrence of weakness of sight. Cutting through the nerve is the only remedy. 4. From complication of the above-mentioned causes. The treatment of the wound here requires the first attention; subsequently the commotion of the retina is to be looked to. The same states of the eye may also be produced by wounds of the infraorbital region. I have seen a case of complete amaurosis occur suddenly eight days after a blow on the region of the eyebrow, though there was not any trace of it on the skin, in which the pupil was natural and movable, and there was not the slightest pain. By repeated bleedings, rubbings-in of mercurial ointment, and several blisters along the course of the frontal nerve, a perfect cure was effected. [John Thomson mentions “a frequent and most distresing species of injury, which occasioned blindness by the passage of balls through or near to the eyes. In the cases where balls had passed near to the eyes, the vision was destroyed; in some without any apparent injury of the eyeball itself; and in others, with the occurrence of every degree of inflammation in that organ. In one case, where the ball had passed through behind the eyes, from temple to temple, one eye was destroyed by inflammation and the other affected by amaurosis. In another case where the ball had taken precisely the same direction, both eyes were affected with amaurosis, but without inflammation being produced. In another case where the bullet had entered the face on the upper and left side of the nose, and passed out anterior to the right ear, the patient was affected with amaurosis of the right eye. The left eye was similarly affected in a case where the ball had entered the right side of the nose, and had come out before the left ear. We had occasion to see from eight to ten patients, in whom musket-balls had passed through behind the eyes, from temple to temple; and in all of these there was great swelling, pain and tension of the head and face. A careless examination would have led one to suppose that in these cases the ball had entered the cranium. Cases of this kind are re- corded in which the blindness is supposed to have been produced by the balls passing through the inferior part of the anterior lobes of the brain; but the results of my own observation would lead me to doubt whether, in those cases, the substance of the brain itself had been actually injured. In some of the patients in whom amaurosis had been produced, there was reason to believe, from the course which the balls had taken, that the optic nerves were divided. In a considerable proportion, however, of those affected with amaurosis, it was obvious that the balls had not come into contact with these nerves.” (pp. 65, 6.) Farde.uj (a) relates the case of a soldier wounded at the battle of Pultuska, in 1806, by a dismounted bayonet impelled by a ball, which struck him “on the right temple two finger’s breadth beyond the angle of the orbit, and a little above it, passed up to the hilt, from before backwards, and from above downwards, so as to traverse the maxillary sinus on the opposite side, and projected five inches. The man was knocked down, but did not lose his senses. He made several ineffectual efforts to pull the bayonet out, and two comrades, one holding the head, whilst the other dragged at the weapon, also failed. The poor wounded man came to me leaning on the arms of two fellow- soldiers. I endeavoured with the assistance of a soldier to pull out the bayonet, but it seemed to me as if fixed in a wall. The soldier who helped me desired the patient to lie down on his side, and, putting his foot on the man’s head, with both hands he dragged out the bayonet, which was immediately followed by considerable haemorrhage, the blood pouring forth violently and abundantly. The patient then first felt ill, and, as I (a) Observation sur une Plaie de tete par une de Med. de Chirurgie et de Pharm., vol. xxiv. bayonette lancee par une boulet; in Journal Gen. p. 287. An 1809.