641 VENEREAL ULCERS. Delpech, Consid6rations sur les Maladies Veneriennes; in Chirurgie Clinique de Montpellier, Paris et Montpellier, 1823, 4to., p. 2G3. Devergie, N., Clinique de la Maladie Syphilitique, avec un Atlas colorie, etc. Paris, 1826. 4to. Bacot, John, A Treatise on Syphilis, in which the history, symptoms, and method of treating every form of that disease are fully considered. Loudon, 1829. 8vo. Lawrence, William, Lectures on Surgery, in Lancet, 1829—30, vol. i. Travers, Benjamin, Observations on the Pathology of Venereal Affections. Lon- don, 1830. 8vo. Hacker, H. A., Literatur der syphilitischen Krankheiten vorn Jahr 1794 vis 1829. Leipzig, 1830. Wallace, William, A Treatise on the Venereal Disease and its varieties. London, 1833. 8vo. Bonorden, H. F., Die Syphilis, pathologisch, diagnostisch und therapeutisch darge- stellt. Berlin, 1834. Colles, Abraham, Practical Observations on the Venereal Disease, and on the use of Mercury. London, 1837. 8vo. Desruelles, Traite pratique des Maladies Ve'neriennes. Paris, 1836. Bottex, De la Nature et du Traitement de la Syphilis. Paris, 1836. Boyer, Traite pratique de la Syphilis. Paris, 1836. Championnilre, L., Recherches pratiques sur la The'rapeutique de la Syphilis, ou- vrage fonde sur les observations recueillees dans le service et sur les yeux de M. Cuil- LERIER. Paris, 1836. Giraudeau de Saint-Gervais, Traitd des Maladies Syphilitiques. Paris, 1838. Ricord, Traite pratique des Maladies Vdneriennes, &c. Paris, 1838. 8vo., and translated into English by H. P. Drummond, M.D. London, 1842. 8vo. 814. Venereal Ulcers, Chancres, (Ulcera Venerea, Syphilitica, Lat.; Schanker, Germ. ; Chancres, Fr.,) are distinguished as primary and se- condary (1); the former are consequent on the inoculation of venereal poison and occur at the place of infection; the latter are symptoms of general infection of the body (2). [(1) The terms venereal ulcers, chancres, here used indiscriminately by Chelius in reference to both primary and secondary sores, are incorrect. All the sores which re- sult from impure connexion are venereal, in the common acceptation, but all venereal sores are not chancres; therefore to name them chancres produces an erroneous im- pression of their nature, and should be avoided. The employment of the title, chancre, to sores whether primary or secondary is also improper, for although the primary sore, to which alone English Surgeons, following the authority of John Hunter restrict the name, chancre, may infect the constitution and cause secondary sores and other symp- toms, which, together, are by him designated lues venerea, yet the matter from a secondary sore will not produce chancre, as proved by Hunter’s experiment of in- oculating a man who had venereal blotches with matter from his own sores, and also with chancrous matter, in which case the former wounds healed up, but the latter be- came chancres. It is therefore preferable to give the name syphilis to the whole series of symptoms resulting from the communication of the poison of the Hunterian chancre, which is the primary manifestation of the disease, as the ulcers in the throat, the eruptions and sores on the skin, and affections of the bones are the secondary or constitutional results. (2) John Hunter says:—“ The venereal poison is capable of affec ting the human body in two different ways; locally, that is in those parts only to which it is first applied and constitutionally, that is in consequence of the absorption of the venereal pus which affects parts while diffused in the circulation. * * * The local or first kind is what 1 have called immediate, arising immediately upon the application of venereal pus. Of this kind there are two sorts seemingly different from one another. In the first there is a formation of matter without a breach in the solids, called a gonorrhcra. In the second there is a breach in the solids called a chancre. Neither of these two ways in VOL. I. 2 T