ABSCESS OF THE BRAIN. 402 fit, which was followed by incomplete paralysis of the left side. His limbs were shrunk • his face pale, his eye peculiarly wild, his countenance peevish and anxious. He was restless and irritable, and when spoken to he would only scream out, “ my head aches,” putting his hand at the same time to his forehead. The scalp was hot, but the surface generally cool; the pupils especially the right, much dilated ; pulse small and 120. He could not move either of the left limbs; the motions were very fetid, and passed in- voluntarily, as did also the urine. He pointed to what he wanted, rather than asked for it. His head was ordered to be shaved; leeches and cold lotion to be applied. Chalk mixture to check the action of his bowels, and a drachm of mercurial ointment to be rubbed in nightly. The leeches were repeated on the next day. Nov. 2.—The pain in the head still severe ; but he moves his left side more freely. On the 5th his gums were affected by the mercury; the headache only at intervals, and the heat of the scalp diminished ; a blister was put on the occiput. A week after he was capable of retaining both stools and urine, and the powers of motion were improved ; but the headache was very severe; the pupils dilated and insensible to light; pulse still quick and small, and the surface quickly cooling when exposed. The mercurial friction was now left off. Another blister was applied in the course of the week, and on the \9th he was ordered dec. cinch, jjss. acid. mur. ipjviij. t. d. A puffiness soon after began to appear above the cicatrix, and extended to the left eyelid ; and on the 26tli distinct fluctuation being felt, a lancet was passed into it, and blood flowed freely, as from opening a vein, without any pus, but after a minute ceased spontaneously. A deeper wound was then made, and about half-an-ounce of cheesy matter escaped. A poultice was applied, and a dose of calomel given. A slight discharge of pus followed, but in three or four days the w ound healed. He continued still very irritable ; but the headache varied, and when most violent the pupils were dilated. On the i 8th Dec. pus was again discharged from the forehead, and also at the left angle of the jaw; the bowels were much relaxed; he gradually sunk and died on the 31st. Examination.—The scalp was found to form the front boundary of the frontal sinuses, their external table being entirely absorbed; but there was little pus. The inner table was almost perforated in many places, and completely in one, but there was not any pus between it and the dura mater, which was vascular, especially over the sinuses. The longitudinal sinus was full of pus, and lined with or- ganised lymph; both the lateral, the inferior longitudinal, and inferior petrosal sinuses | were also distended with pus ; in the right lateral was a hard plug of lymph at the part where it turned to the temporal bone, and the left was filled with lymph to the lacerated hole; the orifices of many of the veins into the longitudinal sinus, and to some distance from it, were filled with pus: the pia mater was loaded with blood. A small abscess was on the surface of the right hemisphere, near to the longitudinal sinus, but not com- municating with it. In the left lobe of the cerebellum was a large abscess. There were also abscesses in the lungs, one in the left kidney, and a few small ulcers on the mucous membrane of the ileum and colon. Prochaska (a) has also mentioned a similar case of a boy struck on the head by the handle of a winch, whilst drawing water from a well. He received a slight wound, which soon healed; but he suffered much headache, became dull and heavy, and after I some weeks was attacked occasionally with convulsions of the whole body, which i ceased spontaneously. Rather more than four months after he fell suddenly into the same state, and was brought to the hospital in that condition a week after. Under treat- ■ ment he began to recover the use of the paralytic hand and foot, and both to see and ! talk better. After some days, a soft, fluctuating swelling, without pain or redness, ap- peared on the forehead, where the blow had been received, and, when cut into, a large i quantity of black half-coagulated blood was discharged, and the frontal bone felt rough to the finger. At every daily dressing there was a free discharge of similar blood. Soon f after he had very severe bleeding from the nose, which relieved the headache ; it re- curred every day till the fourth, on the morning of which he sunk into a deep sleep, I broken only by convulsions, and in the evening he died. The examination showed the frontal bone rough and porous opposite the swelling; the vessels of the dura mater were loaded with blood, and pressure upon the longitudinal sinus caused the blood to flow through the porous frontal bone, the sinus itself having several openings into the diploe, behind the injured part of the bone through which the blood passed. On the upper part of the left hemisphere the dura mater adhered so firmly j to the brain, that they could not be separated without tearing. The cortical part of the brain was here very thin ; the convolutions had nearly disappeared ; and beneath it was a large oval swelling, hard but fluctuating, over the left ventricle, extending throughout \ the whole hemisphere, and occupying two-thirds of the transverse extent of the skull, (a) Observationes Tathologicw, sect. iv. Cas. tert.; in Opera Minora. Vienna:, 1800.