221 AND SUPPURATION. . 215. If there be already thickened synovial membrane, and, if the acute have passed into the chronic condition, leeches must be repeatedly applied, but in small numbers, waiting-, however, each time till the erysipelas thereby excited has subsided. If the swelling be soft, light compression may be employed, mercurial or iodine ointment used ; continued derivation by blisters and issues, and moxas or the actual cautery applied (1). When suppuration occurs in the joint, with destruction of the cartilages and bones, care must be taken for the proper discharge of the pus (2); the limb must be kept in the most perfect rest; the powers supported by the use of tonic remedies, and a proper attention to diet; and poulticing must be continued. If exhaustion be feared, the removal of the limb is indicated. [(1) When the inflammation has become actually chronic, especially if there be think- ing, then irritating applications are especially beneficial. In the milder form soap liniment, either alone, or rendered more stimulating by the addition of liquor ammonia-, or tinctura lyttce, in proportion of a drachm to the ounce, the liniment of ammonia, with oil of turpentine, as recommended by Brodie, or mustard liniment, made by macerating an ounce of mustard Hour in a pint of spirit of turpentine, are often sufficient. When more active excitement is necessary, friction with croton oil, about a dozen or twenty drops every evening till it brings out little blisters, which soon run into suppuration, is very serviceable, and a very cleanly application. Brodie recommends a liniment con- sisting of ol. oliva 3jss., ad. acid, sulph. jss.; but, if the patient’s skin be delicate, or very tender, less acid must be used; it excites some degree of inflammation of the skin, and the cuticle browns, and is thrown off in thick broad scales. Some persons paint the whole joint over with tincture of iodine, which often acts like a blister. Mercurial ointment, with or without camphor, is frequently used, or ointment of iodide of lead ; these are best applied upon lint without rubbing, as the former, if rubbed, often causes ptyalism in deli- cate persons especially, and the latter soon irritates the skin so much, that its discontinu- ance is compelled. The use of pressure, with straps of soap plaster, is often very com- fortable and beneficial, and may be combined with stimulation of the skin, by using emp. thur. comp., emp. ammon. c. hydr., or emp. picis Bury. Tartarized antimonial liniment was a favourite remedy of Astley Cooper’s ; but it requires to be used with great caution, as, in persons with delicate skin, it often very speedly excites violent inflammation, with a very large crop of pustules, which become extremely painful, and often degenerate into deep and tiresome sores. (2) The puncture of a joint when fluctuation is accompanied with other symptoms which lead to the presumption of pus being confined in its cavity is, though highly necessary if there be much constitutional excitement, and specially if the abscess point, not always unattended with inconvenience or even danger, and not certainly beneficial to the patient, of which the following is an instance : Case.—J. P., aged twenty-five years, a baker, came under my care in the year 1843. Three months after having had typhus fever four years and a half since, his right knee be- came weak, and he began to limp; at this time there was not any swelling of the joint, but during the following six months the knee swelled, and he was under medical treatment: an abscess formed below the knee-cap, and burst subsequently by two wounds below and on the inside of the tubercle of the shin-bone. A discharge continued for four or five months, during which he followed his business, and walked about a good deal. The wounds at last healed, but soon after swelling occurred below and around the knee-cap, and thirteen months since it suppurated, and continued discharging on the apex of the knee-cap till the beginning of April in this year. During nearly the whole ot this time he has walked, though not without pain, but has been unable to follow his business. The discharge having ceased, general swelling of the whole knee commenced, and he began to feel weakness on the sides of the joint. Being thus again crippled he came into the hospital May 2, and I presume (for I did not make any note of his case at the time) I then considered his case as chronic inflammation of the synovial membrane, as he was treated by repeatedly blistering the joint, but the disease has not been at all checked. It is only however, within a fortnight from the present time (Aug. 19) that I have begun to think very seriously of his condition. During this time his sleep has been disturbed by shooting pain on the outside of the knee, the pain extending down the leg, always coming on as he tails asleep, and rousing him completely. Latterly he has lost flesh; his pulse is small and quick; but he does not sweat much, and his appetite is good.