593 BY SETON. very similar in appearance to the intervertebral substance when divided transversely, but especially that part of it which is found half-way between the centre and circum- ference.” (p. 826.) It appears to me, in regard to this case, that if White’s treatment had been followed out and the ligamentous covering of the lower end of the bone had been destroyed with caustic the result might probably have been more favourable. As it was, the object of the operation, to wit, that of getting rid of the ligamentous or car- i tilaginous coverings of the fractured ends was only partially effected.—J. F. S.] 719. The introduction of a seton is to be effected in the following manner: —It should be attempted by extension and counter-extension to bring the broken ends into proper position, and even to separate them somewhat from each other. With due caution the place is to be chosen, where the seton- needle armed with silk can be so thrust into and through the whole limb, that no large vessel nor nerves should be wounded, and so that the seton- thread be placed between the two ends of the fracture. It might be better, perhaps, in most cases, to cut down on both sides to the bone, for the pur- pose of more certainly and accurately carrying the seton through between the fractured ends. The limb should then be duly extended, and kept in proper position by a suitable apparatus. The seton-threads are to be drawn daily backwards and forwards between the fractured ends, and to be entirely removed as soon as the ends are found to be knit together. If, after three or four months, no firm union have ensued, all hope of cure must be given up ; there remains then, if the patient will be relieved of the inconvenience of the unnatural joint, no other remedy than amputation. Weinhold (a) himself employed with advantage his needle-trephine with which he introduced a wedge-shaped seton smeared with some irritating matter. Oppenheim (b) recommends, in order to make the operation of the seton more pow- I erful, enduring and effectual, where the circumstances previous to the introduction of a i seton had not promised, a priori, any result, the introduction of two setons, not indeed as already proposed, through the newly-formed cartilaginous intermediate mass, hut in such way that each seton should be in contact with one of the fractured ends: the setons not to be left too long, but only till such time as suppuration was properly established, and then at once withdrawn, instead of by repeated and gradual thinning the size of the seton. In two cases Oppenheiji pursued this practice with success under the most unfavourable circumstances. According to Jobert’s opinion (c), the seton should be left in only eight days. 720. The use of the seton may be accompanied with difficulty and danger, when in an oblique fracture the surfaces of the fracture correspond, i so that in passing the needle through, important vessels and nerves may be injured. If the fractured ends be so close together that their surfaces touch only at one little point, the proper position of the bone must be first attained by permanent extension, after which by the introduction of the suture some advantage may be gained. 721. The introduction of the seton is more simple and less dangerous than sawing off' the ends of the fracture ; healing also takes place without shortening of the limb; but in many cases, on account of its less activity, it is not beneficial, as when the ends of the bone are united by a wide mass of cartilage, or by an actual false joint. The seton should be left for a long time, for four or five months, even to the consolidation of the bone (Phy- sick.) Smearing the seton-thread with irritating ointment, for the purpose of strengthening its operation, may easily excite erysipelatous inflammation, abscesses, and constitutional irritation. The symptoms after sawing oft' (а) Von der Ileilung des falschen Gelenkes, (c) Archives Generales de Medecine, 1810, Octo- u. s. w.; in Hufeland’s Journal, May, 1826. bre, p. 224. (б) Hamburg Zeitzschrift. VOL. I. 2 Q