SYMPTOMS OF. 157 (a) MS. Lectures on Surgery. the lacunae is more than accidental, or that it has anything to do with the gonorrhoea.— J. F. S.] From the opportunity which Cooper had of examining a person who had been executed whilst affected with gonorrhoea, he states, that “ the inflammation had extended down to the bulb of the urethra; for an inch or an inch and a-half down, the urethra was exceedingly red, and there was some effusion of matter on the internal sur- face ; the urethra was red at the bulb, but not of so deep a colour. The inflammation, therefore, is not confined to an inch or an inch and a half down the urethra, but often extends over the bulb, and in this way produces strictures.” (p. 190.) (5) Not unfrequently small swellings are noticed externally in the neighbourhood of the urethra, which, Hunter thinks, are enlargement of its glands; they sometimes sup- purate and burst externally, but at other times internally. Hunter has well described them:—“ At times swelling very considerably, even to the size of a small flattened nut, inflaming, and then a gush of matter flowing from the urethra, they almost immediately subside. The discharge has continued for some time gradually diminishing, till it has entirely gone off, and the tumour been almost wholly reduced ; yet, some months after, it has swelled in the same manner again, and terminated in the same way.” There can be no doubt of the correctness of his suspicions, that “ these tumours are the ducts or lacuna; of the glands of the urethra, distended with their mucus, from the mouth of the duct being closed, in a manner similar to what happens to the duct leading from the lachrymal sac to the nose; and, in consequence of the distension of the ducts or lacuna;, inflammation and suppuration come on, and ulceration takes place, which opens a way into the urethra ; but this opening soon closes up, and this occasions a return.” (p. 48.) (6) “The fear the patient is in,” says Hunter, “ when he is making water, assists in ( diminishing the stream of urine. The stream, as it flows from the urethra, is generally much scattered and broken the moment it leaves the passage, which is owing to the in- ternal canal having become irregular, and is not peculiar to a venereal gonorrhoea, but common to every disease of the urethra that alters the exact and natural figure of the canal, even although the irregularity is very far back, as we find in many diseased and prostate glands.” (p. 47.) (7) “ The bleeding,” Cooper (a) observes, is “ generally from that part of the urethra opposite to the symphysis pubis.” They are generally serviceable ; “ but, when they pro- i duce fainting, and, as soon as the person recovers from that state the haemorrhage recurs, and that for two or three times, it must be checked.” •• When the inflammation is violent,” Hunter observes, “ it often happens that some I vessels of the urethra burst, and a discharge of blood ensues, which is in greater quantity at the close of making water; this, however, takes place at other times, and generally gives temporary ease : sometimes this blood is in small quantity, and only gives the matter a tinge, as I observed when treating of the colour of the discharge. The erec- 1 tions of the penis often stretch the part so much, as to become a cause of extravasation of blood; this extravasation generally increases the soreness at the time of making water, and in such a state of parts, the urethra is usually sore when pressed; yet the bleeding diminishes the inflammation, and often gives ease.” (p. 52.) In rare cases, the corpus spongiosum bursts, and a little swelling, caused by the extra- : vasated blood, is observed externally, which, however, is not of material consequence, and is gradually absorbed. But I may here mention, that I once saw a case, under my colleague Mackmurdo’s care, in which there was enormous extravasation of blood, from bursting of some vessel in the penis, during the act of coition ; and the result of which was, the penis especially and the perinseum were greatly distended, and he was unable to pass his urine without extreme pain, in consequence of which a catheter was introduced. In the course of two or three days, extravasation of urine ensued, and the bladder was ( punctured through the rectum. Considerable sloughing, not only in the perinmum, but also up into the groins, took place, into which incisions Avere made, as needed, and he ultimately, though slowly, recovered.—J. F. S. (8) Hunter divides chordee into inflammatory and spasmodic:—“ When the inflam- mation is not confined merely to the surface of the urethra and its glands, but goes deeper, and affects the reticular membrane, it produces in it an extravasation of coagul- ate lymph, as in the adhesive inflammation, which, uniting the cells together, destroys the power of distension of the corpus spongiosum urethra, and makes it unequal in this yespect to the corpora cavernosa penis, and therefore a curvature on that side takes place m time of erection, which is called a chordee. * * * As it arises from a greater de- gree of inflammation than common, it is an effect which may, and often does, remain after all infection is gone, being merely a consequence of the adhesive inflammation. The spasmodic chordee arises from spasm, at least, it cannot proceed from the same cause