125 PARALLEL EFFECTS OF HEAT AND COLD. dressings were removed, “ the wound found united, with the exception of here and there a point and a small pouch of pus at the most depending part of the flap,” which was punctured and the pus evacuated. Some of the pins were removed, and fresh straps applied. This the first case succeeded admirably, and the history of the other two which he has published, were nearly counterparts of it. After the incision had healed, the head was supported by “ a stiff'stock on which her chin rested, and this instrument also served to press the integument back, by which the natural excavation or depth of the neck, in front was readily effected.” With the view of determining the propriety of the operations, such as those reported by him, Mutter makes some very interesting and valuable observations on, “ 1st, the nature of the tissue to be divided or removed; 2ndly, the thickness or profundity of the cicatrix; 3rdly, its location; 4thly, its extent; 5thly, its age; and, 6thly, its peculiar deformity.”] When large burns scar, there not unfrequently arises abdominal disorder, and frequent watery evacuations, which must not be suppressed. III.—OF FROSTBITE. Anweisung, alle erfrornen Glieder aus dem Grande zu heilen, auch dann noch, wenu sie seit mehreren Jahren erfroren sind. 2nd Edit. Pirna, 1804. 8vo. Ottensee, J. C., fiber die grfindliche Heilung der Frostbeuten, in von Siebold’s Chiron., vol. ii. p. 129. Thomson, John, M.D., Article—Frostbite; in his Lectures on Inflammation, p. G13. Desmoulins, Dela Gangrene par Congelation. Paris, 1815. Morn ay, Sur la Gangrene des Extrc'mite's par Congelation. Strasbourg, 1816. Larrey, Me'moire sur la Gangrene seche cause'e par le Froid, ou Gangrene de Congela- tion, in Mem. de Chirurgie Milit., vol. iii. p. 60. 103. In Frost-bite, (Congelatio, Lat.; Erfrierungen, Germ.; Congela- tion, Fr.,) the severe and continued cold produces numbness of organic parts, so that sensation and motion are diminished, and, if its influence be continued, all sensation and motion are lost, the pulsation of the arteries ceases, and death ensues, in consequence of which the part is shrivelled and dried (1). If the whole body be subjected to such influence, the skin be- comes gradually pallid and insensible ; from the collection of blood in the internal parts especially in the brain and lungs, arise anxiety, weakness, disposition to sleep, and, if these symptoms occur and the cold continue, death is the result (2). This particularly happens after the use of spiri- tuous drinks without sufficiently active exercise. [(1) The parallelism of the effects of great degrees of heat and cold upon the animal body is very remarkable; for, though the causes are so opposite and unlike, yet are their results precisely similar, in almost whatever degree they are applied. Thus heat and cold produce only agreeable sensations when not advanced beyond a certain degree; but, if exceeding that, then both become painful without, however, exciting inflammation. A further degree of heat causes vesication, without death of the part, by merely’ exciting at first sufficient inflammation, or at least sufficiently increased action, to produce immediately the effusion of serum necessary to the formation of a blister. An increased degree of cold acts dif- ferently, inasmuch as its primary effect is to suspend the passage of the blood through the vessels, whence arise the blueness and puffiness of the cooled part, which is still pain- ful, and has its motions restricted. But, if the cold be continued, the part becomes pallid, or yellowish-white, as if the blood were squeezed out of it, and its vessels emptied; the pain now ceases, the part becomes numb and motionless, but it docs not vesicate. When the coldness subsides, the heat not only returns, but exceeds the natural standard; the pain also recurs and becomes more severe; inflammation being thus set up, its termination depends on the mode of treatment followed out. A still greater degree of heat or cold produces mortification, which, when depending on heat, except in the very