FRACTURES OF THE COLLAR-BONE. 551 J whilst with the other hand the elbow is brought inwards and somewhat for- wards ; or the knee should be placed between the shoulder-blades, and the shoulders drawn back with both hands. The apparatus for retaining the broken ends in their proper position, are (with the exception of the inappropriate bandages) the spica Glaucii, (Galen,) the metraclavi- cularis, the figure-of-eight bandage, (Pare, Petit,) the spina humeri descendens, (Kluge, L. Richter,) the cross of IIeister, the bandages of Brasdor, Evers, the straps of Brunninghausen, Wilhelm, and Eberl (a), the apparatus of Desault and of Boyer, that of Brefeld (/>), of Eichheimer (c), Koptenst/Edter (d), and Keckely (e). Rest upon the sound side in bed is to be recommended, in which the injured side is to be supported with a pillow and the elbow, as far as possible, laid backwards on the body (f), or the fore-arm and elbow put in the horizontal position, supported by means of a sling, and the arm fastened by a bandage to the body (<?), as well also by connecting the elbows together behind the back. Cruvelhier’s apparatus (A) is only a modification of Desault’s ; the same also is that of Laserre (i); of Flajimant (A); and Delpech (l). Earle, H. (to), proposes for fracture of the collar-bone au arm-sling, for the'purpose of more perfectly fixing the upper end, which is also applicable in fractures of the acromion and neck of the blade-bone. Amesbcry («) gives a modification of Earle’s apparatus. Richerand (o) puts the arm in a simple sling, so that the elbow is supported, and the arm kept against the trunk ; a simple compress is put in the arm-pit to absorb the perspiration and prevent excoriation. Wattmann (p) puts the hand upon the un- injured shoulder, fastens it with cloths, and puts a ring beneath the point of the elbow. Mayor (q) puts a triangular cloth beneath the under third of the upper-arm around the chest; he then carries the depending triangular corner between the fore-arm and breast, upwards, and the one end over the injured, and the other over the sound shoulder, and fastens them behind on the breast part of the cloth. Huberthal’s (r) apparatus may also be used. Renaud’s (s) apparatus for simultaneous fracture of both collar-bones. 640. The apparatus which draw back the shoulders (those of IIeister, Brasdor, Evers, Brunninghausen, Wilhelm, and others) have this objection : that they do not preserve the setting, easily produce excoriations of the arm-pit, swelling of the arm, and often unendurable pain, especially if the straps be broad and not roundly padded. Keeping in bed is very annoying to many patients. The apparatus of Desault and Boyer is therefore usually considered most preferable in this fracture. In the former a pillow, three and a half inches thick at the base, gradually thinning, and from five to six inches long, is applied with its base upwards, between the arm and the breast, and confined with a bandage. The elbow 00 Kritische Bemerkungen fiber die gegen- wiirtig noch iiblichen Methoden der Scliliisselbein- brucli zu heilen, nebst Angabe eines verbesserten Verbandes; in Rust’s Magazin, vol. xxvi. p 462. (A) Neue und sichere Methode, den Bruch der Sehbisselbeines zu heilen; in Rust’s Magazin, vol. xxvii. p. 555. (c) In Graefe und von Waltiiek’s Journal, vol. xiv. p. 533. (d) Ibid. (e) American Journal, 1836. No. 24. (/) Flajani, Collezione d’Osservazione e Rif- flessioni di Chirurgia. 4 vols. 8vo. Roma, 1803. (<?) Larrey ; in Dictionnaire abrege des Sciences Medicales, vol. iv. p. 365. 1821. (A) Medecine pratique eclairee par l’Anatomie et la Physiologie pathologiques,cab. i. Paris, 1821. (j) Bulletin des Scien (i) Dissert, sur la Lithotomie, etc. Paris, 1814. —Froriep’s Chirurg. Kupfert., pi. ccxxvii. (A) Journal Compl. du Dictionn. des Sciences Medicales, vol. xxxvi. (0 Gerdy, Traite des Bandages et Appareils de Pansement. 8vo. et Atlas, 4to. Paris, 1826. (in) Practical Observations on Surgery. Svo. London, 1823. (n) Syllabus of Surgical lectures on the nature and treatment of Fractures, &c. London, 1827. p. 66. (o) Histoire des Progres recens de la Chirnrgie. Paris, 1825. p. 132. Med. Jahrbiiclier des k. k. oststaates, vol. vi. (q) Gazette Medicale, 1835, No. 15. (r) Rust’s Magazin, vol.xlix. part 1. Medicales, 1811, Nov.