TREATMENT. 745 with them, and that in all cases, in the course of two or three days after the abscess has burst, urine begins to flow through it; 1 think you will be inclined to believe with me, that an aperture must have formed by ulceration in the mucous membrane of the urethra in the first instance. Such ulceratiou would allow a little urine to dribble in to the cellular membrane, and the formation of an abscess would be the necessary consequence. This is the simplest way of explaining the formation of these fistula, and it explains everything about them. The escape of even a single drop of urine into the cellular membrane would be sufficient to do all this mischief.” (p. 487.)] 964. As these urethral fistulas are for the most part connected with narrowing of the urethra, the first indication consists in the proper widen- ing of this canal, with wax or elastic bougies, to its proper size. For the due carrying off the urine from the fistula, the introduction of the elastic catheter occasionally, through which the urine may pass, is necessary. If in this treatment, any disease having causal relations to the fistula be attended to, if care be taken for cleanliness and the diminution of the irritation of the parts surrounding the fistula, by poultices, warm hip- baths, leeches, and the like, the patient’s condition is improved ; if any foreign body in the fistula be removed, it generally heals without further assistance. Opinions vary as regards the introduction of a catheter, in the cure of urethral fis- tulas. The objections made by Hunter, B. Bell («), Richter (b), and others (c), to the introduction of the catheter in the cure of urethral fistulas are, that the catheter, if suitable for its purpose, must completely fill the urethra, by which the edges of the fistula are separated, and the cure prevented; if the catheter be too small, the urine escapes by its side and comes in contact with the fistula. The continuance of the catheter in the urethra is extremely painful to many patients, and does harm by keeping up the irritation ; experience also shows that fistula of the urethra, when the latter has attained its natural size, heals without the in-lying of the catheter. As, however, ex- perience declares as well for the contrary, so if the internal fistulous opening be a small one, the introduction of the catheter be very painful for the patient, and therefore it is impossible that the whole canal of the urethra can be filled by it and the urine com- pletely withdrawn from the fistula, the introduction of the catheter must be given up. On the other hand, under opposite circumstances, and if it be observed that the cure of the internal fistulous orifice give rise to a narrowing of the urethra, the introduction of an elastic catheter may and should be attempted. Only in fistula arising from ulcera- tion of the urethra without stricture, {par. 94G,) is the use of the bougie and catheter doubtful, as they only increase the disposition to ulceration, and the local as well as the general irritation. Corresponding remedies must be employed internally to the con- stitutional powers. [As the cause of the continuance of perinccal fistula is the dribbling of the urine through it in consequence of the contraction of the urethra, in front of the aperture by which it escapes by that canal, “ to cure the fistula, you must,” as Brodie observes, “ remove the contraction, restoring the urethra to its natural diameter. In a case of fistula after gonorrhoea, this is easily accomplished. A few introductions of a bougie will probably be sufficient to dilate the urethra, and make the fistula heal. In cases of fistula in perinao, connected with chronic stricture of the urethra, the treatment is just the same. All you have to do, is to cure the stricture, and in nineteen cases out of twenty, by the time that is fully dilated, the fistula is healed. It is more easy for the urine to pass along the natural passage, if it be of its proper diameter, than it is for it to pass through the oblique passage of the fistula. The fistula has generally a kind of valvular opening in the urethra, into which the urine does not easily flow; and when you have dilated the stricture in front of the fistula, the urine having a free passage in that direction, ceases to flow in the other.” (p. 487.)] 965. When, although the urethra has acquired its usual size, the heal- ing of the fistula does not take place, and this depends on the callous or other condition of the fistula, together with the pus and urine escaping by- fa) Hell, Benjamin, System of Surgery, vol.ii. p. 2‘i0. (I>) Richter, Anfangsgriinde, vol. vi. p. 339. —Zano, Darstellung blutiger, heilkunstlerischer Operationen, vol. iii. pt. ii. p. 327.—Cooper, A., above cited. (c) Desault, CEuvres Cliirurgicales, vol. iii. p. 291.