411 TREATMENT. * to wit, by a fall upon the feet; or violence which strikes the skull itself and j acts upon it to a certain extent. Most commonly in concussion the skull t remains entire; it may, however, be injured in various ways. [(1) Astley Cooper says:—“ I have known concussion arise from the general shake I of the whole body, unaccompanied by any blow upon the cranium, pain in the head succeed, with the usual symptoms of concussion, and the patient’s life be greatly en- p dangered.” (p. 262.) “ A very curious example of pure concussion,” quoted by IIennen, “ is given us by Schmucker (a), in which a cannon-ball took away the queue from the nape of a soldier’s neck, without injuring the integuments in any sensible degree. He continued in a com- plete state of stupor for many days, during which he was bled at least twenty times. Twenty-four grains of tartar emetic, given at short intervals, produced some stools, but no apparent inclination to vomit, after having suffered a relapse from having been moved prematurely on a march with the army.” (pp. 318, 19.)] 425. The prognosis is guided by the degree and complication of the I concussion. In its most severe form convalescence is always tedious, and there frequently remains disturbance of some of the mental faculties, loss of memory, weakness of sight, amaurosis, loss of smell and taste, great irri- tability of the stomach, and so forth. Complication of concussion with i extravasation and inflammation always renders it extremely dangerous. 426. As to the treatment of concussion ; this must be various, according i to the different conditions of the patient {par. 426) ; as in concussion there is ; always gorging of the brain with blood, and subsequently attacks of in- i flammation to be dreaded, general and local blood-letting, cold fomenta- i tions, purging and irritating clysters are especially indicated. Large blood- lettings are in most cases fatal; small bleedings are to be made as often as the pulse again becomes hard ; if, however, it becomes weak and inter- mitting, no blood must be taken away; nor at the onset, when the pulse is scarcely to be felt, the countenance is pale, and soon, is blood-letting to be used, but only when the pulse rises (1). Too frequent bleeding often brings on convulsions. If the patient be found in a weak state, if the pulse after bleeding become smaller and weaker, spirituous frictions, a blister over the whole head, stimulating clysters, vomiting with tartar emetic, should be employed, the latter, however, with the greatest caution, because if blood be extravasated, or there be disposition to apoplexy, the patient’s condition is thereby considerably damaged (2). Stimulating remedies, as arnica,, musk, fluid alkalies, even wine as recommended by many, are, on account of the danger of subsequent inflammatory irritation, rather disadvantageous, and to be used only with especial caution. [(1) I presume there is now scarcely a Surgeon who would take blood from a patient who was stunned, immediately after a blow on the head ; a practice formerly advised, though in reality rarely carried into effect, as almost invariably some time elapses between the receipt of the injury and the arrival of the Surgeon. No bleeding must be resorted to till the constitution have recovered the shock; till the coldness has subsided, and the heart has recovered its power : to encourage which the patient should be quickly put to bed, bottles of hot water or heated bricks applied to his feet; and, if he be very cold, and his pulse weak and low, a little brandy with hot water should be at once given, and repeated if necessary. When the patient has been brought round, when the warmth is returned and the pulse is improved, the Surgeon must act according to circumstances. Bleeding is not always necessarily though it is generally required. But I do not think it advisable to bleed largely, although only at the first bleeding, as recommended by Astley Cooper ; for, with the disturbed circulation in a brain labouring under con- cussion, a large bleeding may and in some instances will produce fatal fainting. The quantity of blood to be taken at the first bleeding, so soon as the quickness of the pulse requires it, which is generally in six or eight hours, but sometimes later, must therefore (a) Chirurgische Wahrnelimungen. Berlin, 1759. p. 393.