CLEFT SOFT PALATE. 605 needle curve, being caught with a hook or forceps, is drawn forwards and completely through; the needle itself still unthreaded, is then drawn back, its point carried behind the other edge, and having been thrust through, the thread on the outside of the needle curve is drawn forwards out of the needle-eye, which being thus set at liberty the needle is withdrawn entirely, the threads passed through each other and tied, by thrusting down between them a little plate six lines long, with a notch at each end for the threads to run in, two lines broad, and fixed on a stem four inches long, with a handle. Warren (a) proceeded in a similar manner, not only in the case he describes, but also in another on which he operated some years previously. “ The principal difficulty he met with in this operation was in disentangling the ligature from the hook after it had perforated the palate, and he therefore proposed a curved needle with a movable point, which after having been passed through the soft palate, can be separated from the stem, unthreaded, and having been refixed and rethreaded with the hinder end of the thread, is passed through the other edge of the palate, and separated from the stem as before. As to the objections to this treatment, see Schsiidt (6). Wernecke used a needle with an eye in front, and a whalebone handle. [Lesenberg’s (c) needle is similar to that of Donices, but its point' can be covered with a guard. Krimer (d) also uses a similar needle, which can be closed. The instruments for drawing the knot have also been varied by the above-mentioned practitioners. Wernecke carried the knot up to the palate with two small grooved probes, and cuts off the ends of the thread. Ebel used small tubes, and Doniges the special knot-tier, already mentioned. Dieffenbach by means of a nearly straight needle, into the hinder hollow part'of which a leaden thread has been introduced, unites the cleft by drawing the wire together; cuts it off a few lines distant from the soft palate, and turns the twisted ends upwards, so as not to irritate the root of the tongue. The lead wire allows loosening and much tightening. Dieffenbach also proposes to effect the union with a pair of peculiar forceps. Hruby’s palate-holder, is similar to Beinl’s lip-holder (e). Schwerdt’s cleft needle for the introduction of the thread (f). Berard (A) thrusts in the needle from before backwards.—Smith’s needle (g) is long lance-shaped, and furnished with a notch for the reception of the ligature. [But Mutter objects to it, “ first, as being mounted on a straight handle, which renders it more difficult to introduce its point at the proper places; and secondly, the difficulty of disengaging the thread, which may be drawn back along with the needle in the attempts of the Surgeon to disengage the latter from the margin of the palate.” (p. 9.)] Alcock (i) operated at intervals, so that he made raw, and united only one part of the cleft; in one case he only effected perfect union after five operations: in the first four he used the interrupted, and in the last the twisted suture. Hartig (A) effects the union by means of a palate-cramp (fibula sen retinaculum palati.) (Liston (l) introduces a double ligature on a curved needle fixed in a handle, through the front of the palate curtain, “ the noose of which is caught by a blunt hook and pulled out into the mouth whilst the instrument is withdrawn. A second and smaller ligature is carried through opposite to this, and by means of this second thread the first and double one is brought through” (p. 503) Mutter uses a much curved “ needle half an inch in length and mounted on a cylindrical neck, a portion of which is held in the grasp of the porte, (Schwerdt’s,) and the other part, made rough, is intended to be grasped by the forceps of an assistant. The cutting edge of the needle being wider than the diameter of its neck, will make an opening large enough for the easy trans- mission of the ligature. The forceps too may be improved, by causing them to close with a spring instead of a catch.” (^p. 9.)] Fergusson, of King’s College Hospital, has proposed a new mode of staphyloraphy, and has successfully treated two cases by it. “ The principle of this new proposal is to divide those muscles of the palate which have the effect of drawing the flaps from each other, and widening the gap between them when they contract; so that the stretched («) American Jour, of Med. Sciences, 1828. Nov. (b) vonGraefe and von VValther’s Journal, vol. v. pt. ii. p. 338. (c) Dissert, de Stapliylorapliia qusedam. Itos- tochii, 1827. (d) vonGraefe and von Wai.ther’s Journal, vol x.p. 622. (e) In von Grae fe and von Wauther's Journal, vol. ix. p. 323, pi. iii.f. 2. (/) Above cited, pi. iv. f 7 (g) Above cited. (/i) North American Archives of Medical and Chirurgical Science, October, 1834. (i) Above cited. (A) Beschreibung eincs nenen Apparates zur. Vereinizung desgespaltenen Gaumens ohne Naht. Braunschweig, 1841. (1) l’ractical Surgery, London. 1837. 8vo.