751 VESICO-VAGINAL FISTULA. bladder by the vagina, from vdceration of the bladder by the continual pressure of a catheter, or of a rough angular stone, from ulceration of a mucous bag, (Dieffenbacii,) and the like. The fistulous opening there- fore mostly depends on loss of substance. The inconveniences are very great; the vagina, nymphce, labia, and the inside of the thighs, are con- siderably inflamed, excoriated, studded with pustular eruption, burn and smart from the urine escaping by the fistula and the vagina. Often a stony mass collects between the labia and nymphce, and excites much pain ; on i account of the patient’s continual wetting and the soaking of her clothes, her position and so on, a very offensive smell spreads about, which cannot i be avoided by any precaution, or by the most exceeding cleanliness, renders her neighbourhood, in the highest degree troublesome and unbearable, and banishes her to the most painful isolation. The bladder gradually loses i its capacity, and the urethra becomes narrow. 969. The diagnosis of the fistula is always easy, on account of the mode of its origin and the symptoms mentioned, and is most distinctly determined by examination. If the forefinger be introduced into the i vagina, a very large opening is most commonly found in the middle of its front wall, from the size of a bean to two inches and more, the direction of which is mostly transverse, rarely vertical; but of the latter at least I have never seen an instance. According to the different size of this open- ing it may be felt merely with the finger, or seen on examination with the j speculum vagince, or it may be penetrated by the forefinger, or by several fingers into the bladder. With so large an opening it is usual for the fore part of the bladder to protrude as a reddish bladder-like swelling into the vagina or between the labia. The aperture is situated for the most part an inch above the orifice of the urethra, but it may be higher or lower; it may correspond to the urethra, in which case the urine will be | passed voluntarily, and escape only in part by the fistula. Stones may escape by the fistula, and incrustations form upon the internal surface of the bladder, (Jaeger,) as well also as in the vagina. The canal of the vagina above the fistula may be natural, or, as I have often found it, nar- rowed by adhesions in various ways, and even entirely closed ; the neck of the womb is often drawn awry, nearly destroyed, and the mouth of the ’ womb itself grown together. 970. The prognosis in vagino-vesical fistula is always very unfavour- able, inasmuch as the continual wetting of the fistulous edges with urine prevent it closing; this, however, must always be attempted, especially when the opening depends on considerable loss of substance. Although of late the numerous attempts to cure these fistulas have presented only some successful cases, yet in the very sad condition in which the patient is placed by this fistula, and in the inadequacy of palliative remedies by means of receptacles for the urine, and so on, the further perfection of this treat- ment is to be considered as most highly important and to be desired. The various urinary receptacles which have been proposed by Dzondi, as well as the obturators of Barnes, Schmitt, Burchard, Earle, and Ducks, by means of sponge and elastic flasks, by cylindrical or other shaped pessaries, or by means of a piece of gut filled with air, are either of no effect or improve the condition of the patient very little. I have only once succeeded by the aid of an elastic bottle, upon which a sponge was fastened to retain the urine, so that in standing or walking it did not escape, and could be voluntarily discharged. 971. The cure of vagino-vesical fistulas has been attempted in various ways:—1st, By drawing off the urine, and compression of the fistula;