766 DISLOCATION IN GENERAL. Voelcker (a) elFects the same by pressure of the air according to Weber’s experi- ments. (Compare par. 234.) 990. Extension and counter-extension are performed either merely with the hands, or by assistants with twisted cloths, properly applied upon the limb, above and below the dislocation, or with proper machines, among which the pulleys and Schneider’s extending apparatus are the best. If the head of the bone become more movable by gradual extension, and approach the socket, it often slips in of its own accord, and with a distinct noise; or it must be drawn towards the socket with the hands, or with cloths, in doing which the limb is brought into a position contrary to that of the dislocation. It must, however, be here remembered, that the parts of the joint be not injured by too violent motion, when the extension is not sufficiently made. The perfect reduction is indicated by the natural form and direction of the limb, the cessation of pain, and the freedom of motion. [Dislocations which have existed for some time, although they may not be reduced by ordinary extension for an hour or two, may sometimes be reduced simply by tiring the opposing muscles, by attaching a trifling weight for some hours. The younger Ceine in this w'ay succeeded in reducing a dislocation of the shoulder which had been out for several weeks and could not be replaced by the common method, by fixing the shoulder and suspending a brick, attached to the hand, over the end of the bed. On visiting the patient next day, the bone had returned to the socket. In making extension, caution must be employed, and no more violence used than absolutely necessary, nor ought the Surgeon to handle the displaced bone too roughly, as unfortunately is much more frequently done than should be. I have known a dislo- cated bone broken by coarse and unjustifiable attempts at its reduction, and cases are mentioned in which an artery has been torn through, all the soft parts lacerated, and palsy of the limb produced. And even when the extension has been very long conti- nued, without great violence, but in a broken constitution, I have seen abscess in the joint and hectic fever destroy the patient. Caution, therefore, in making and conti- nuing the extension is most important.—J. F. S.j 991. The obstacles which render the reduction of the dislocation diffi- cult or impossible are, great inflammation and swelling, too small opening in the capsule, the peculiar foj'm of the joint, and the long existence of the dislocation. In the former case suitable extension cannot be employed without occasioning dangerous symptoms; the inflammation, as in fractured bones, (par. 587,) must be first got rid of by general and local antiphlogistic treatment before proceeding to reduction. A too small opening in the capsular ligament, is mentioned by many as hindering the reduction, and it is advised that by moving the limb in different directions, the cleft in the ligament should be increased (b). A. Cooper, however, entirely opposes this proposition, and believes only that some of the untorn ligaments prevent the reduction. The form of the joint may render the reduction difficult when the edge of the head of the bone is pushed behind the edge of the socket, as, for instance, at the hip- and shoulder-joint. Old dislocations always require previous blood-letting, baths, movement of the limb in various direction, a considerable and continued extension. Dislocations of ball- and socket-joints often after a month are unreducible ; reduction lias, however, been effected by great force after four and even six months. In hinge joints, after twenty or thirty days, the reduction is often no longer possible. It is, however, to be remarked on this point, that in old dislocations, if a very violent extension be employed, except in very (ra) Worin liegt dor Grund der geringen Bewe- (6) Cai.lisen, SystemaChirurg. hodiern. vol. ii. glichkeit und der schweren Einrichtung der lux- p. irten (Jlieder; in Ilamb. Zeits., vol. vi. pt. ii.