FRICKE’S TREATMENT WITH COMPRESSION. 182 with red precipitate ointment, (not with gonorrhoeal mucus,) to excite fresh inflammation of the urethra. 175. Inflammation of the testicle following mechanical violence or catching cold, is to be treated as above prescribed, (par. 172,) without re- ference to the inflammation of the urethra. 176. As in diffuse inflammation of the cellular tissue, its resolution has been attempted by continued pressure, (par. 91,) so Fricke (a) has recom- mended compression as the most effectual remedy in all cases of inflam- matory swelling of the testicle, from whatever cause. The degree and duration of the inflammation are here of no consequence ; but, if general illness, (for instance, actual gastric disease, be connected with it,) this treatment must be given up. Vascular reaction does not contraindicate compression, nor yet buboes nor sores. After compression the pain is at first frequently increased, and, if the pressure be too great, it is very severe ; it does not, however, continue long, and, speedily, often within a quarter of an hour, the patient is free from pain. Frequently after com- pression gastric symptoms, as disposition to vomit, bitter taste and so on, occur, the compression must then be removed and a vomit given. If the pain continue after the compression, there must be some general disease causing this want of success. In severe traumatic orchitis, leeches first, and poultices for two or three days, must be used. [I have, for some time past, adopted Fricke’s practice of compression, with the greatest success, and rarely now use any other. I have occasionally heard it objected, that it produces so much pain, the patient cannot bear it, and that its removal is absolutely re- quired. My experience is directly contrary to this assertion. I have had but two cases in which the compression was unbearable; whilst, on the other hand, all pain generally subsides in a quarter or half an hour. I feel, therefore, pretty certain, that the fault must rest with the mode in which the compression is applied, and not on the remedy itself. I think it far preferable to the old method of purging, or of making the mouth sore, which I, in common with many others, heretofore generally adopted, and therefore strongly recommend its employment, as an easy and speedy cure. Very often under this treatment, as under the antiphlogistic, when the inflammation subsides, the discharge from the urethra returns. Sometimes, but not always, hardness of the epididymis remains for a long while; but I do not think it of material conse- quence.—J. F. S.] 177. For compressing the testicle, strips of new linen or sheeting, cut in the direction of the threads, should be used, a full thumb broad and an ell long, and spread by a machine with good sticking but not too irritating adhesive plaster. The patient, in slight cases, may place himself before his medical attendant, leaning against the wall, in other cases he must lie on the edge of the bed or sofa that the purse may freely hang down. It the hair on the pubes be too long, it must be shaved. The practitioner takes & the testicle in one hand, separating it from the sound one, while with the other he somewhat stretches the skin of the scrotum. The spermatic cord 3 is also in like manner to be separated. If the testicle be very much I swollen an assistant must hold it, otherwise it is sufficient for the patient himself to separate the healthy from the diseased testicle. The first strip a of sticking plaster is to be applied upon the isolated spermatic cord 1 an inch above the testicle, the end of the strip is to be held with the | thumb whilst a circular band is applied round the cord. In the same manner a second strip is to be put on, which should partially cover the first. This act of compression must be carefully made, the sticking a (a) Ueber die Behandlung der Ilodenentziindung durch compression ; in Hamburger Zejtschrift P\t die gesammte Medicin, vol. i. part i.