TREATMENT BY STITCHING. 755 should be as advantageous as possible. In transverse fistula it is best to pierce the hinder (upper) lip of the wound first, but in longitudinal fistula that next the left side of the pelvis. The left forefinger then presses the corresponding lip of the wound against the point of the needle, till it pretty well holds it. The other needles are to be introduced in a similar way, and the distance between the several needles should be no more than two and at farthest three lines asunder. The tying of the threads is to be effected with the two forefingers, but if they cannot reach, with the forceps. In the application of the interrupted suture, the curved needle, properly fastened in the needle-holder, and supported by the left fore- finger is to be thrust through both lips of the wound at proper points ; for which purpose, frequently the edges of the wound must be fixed with a sharp hook, as otherwise they easily give way. As soon as the needle is introduced through both lips up to its eye, an assistant frees it by turning back the screw of the needle-holder ; the eye and the thread are then to be oiled, the holder withdrawn, and the point of the needle seized with the forceps, and about eight inches length of thread introduced. Both ends of the thread may be advantageously used for arranging the edges of the wound whilst applying the other stitches. If several threads have to be intro- Iduced, it is convenient that they should be of different colour, so that they may be more easily arranged. The needle threads must be first tied and I drawn together with the fingers, or if deep, with the forceps. If the first tie loosen before the second is drawn together, it must be kept tight with forceps by an assistant. The threads must be cut off" an inch from the knot. In introducing the needle it should be remembered, that the edges of the wound are to be taken hold of so far from the needle, that they may I be penetrated without ever piercing the mucous membrane of the bladder. By this treatment the two wounded surfaces are applied to the height of three or four lines, and their free edges at the same time turned inwards towards the bladder, permit the urine to come in contact with the seam only in the most untoward cases. In this way, according to Wutzer, the very difficult separation of the bladder from the wall of the vagina, which ! here and there, from the great thinness of the tissue, must be quite imprac- ticable, is superfluous. Dieffenbach draws with curved needles seven threads from the hinder to the front end of the fistula when drawn down, of which only one holds the edges of the vagina and the other, those of the bladder. The threads which have been passed are to be properly tied with the fingers, their ends brought out and fastened in the mons Veneris with sticking-plaster. The twisted suture is proposed by Naegele to be made with curved needles ; Roux employs the common hare-lip needles; Scheeger uses the glover’s needles and suture. Ehrmann (a) first introduces on the inner side of the fistula some cross threads, then scarifies, and brings it together by tying the threads. Kilian so introduces the needle i near the front angle, three lines from the edge, that its convex surface is directed j towards the operator, pushes it backwards in the direction of the length of the fistula, and again passes it out at the same place, draws it out with the forceps, and brings back the threads to this side. In this way the threads are introduced on the other side, by which the first thread may be employed for drawing down the fistula. The several | opposite corresponding threads may then be tied. The conveyance of the needle with the fingers, or, where necessary, with a needle- holder, is preferable to the long stemmed trocar-like needle, from the eye of which the ligature is drawn out with a pair of forceps. (Naegele, Lallemand, Deuber, and (d) Repertoire Generate d’Anatomie et (le Physiologic I’athologiques, vol. v. pt. ii. p chinin'. Kupfertaf. ccxxxv. 3 c 2 172. Froriep’s