436 WOUNDS OF THE GULLET, TREATMENT. different cartilages, &c. of the windpipe, and which are inserted in the os hyoides, were cut through. * * * I endeavoured to attach the fore part of the oesophagus to the pharynx with needles and waxed thread; but it was found very difficult to accomplish, as tlie wound was very jagged, the patient averse to have any thing done for him, and the pricking of the needles brought on violent retching to vomit, so that the contents of the stomach were evacuated by the wound. 1 next endeavoured to attach the trachea to the larynx, which was likewise difficult, on account of the constant convulsive cough- ing ; however, it was at last done, and the patient in this situation could swallow a little water, though the greatest part still ran out by the wound.” Some adhesive straps were afterwards applied. His bowels were kept open with clysters. No nourishment given by the mouth, but nutritive clysters thrown up every two hours. He went on very well till the sixth day, when he became very feverish; the discharge ichorous and offen- sive ; the breathing quick and difficult, with a loud rattling noise. Hot dressings were applied to the wound. On the ninth day the fever had subsided, and the discharge from the wound thick and hardly in any degree offensive. On the following day, when the dressings were removed, “all the stitches had given way, and the windpipe and gullet had retracted as before. * * * Between the os hyoides and the clavicles there was only one continued gash, which looked as if the windpipe and the gullet had been cut out entirely.” As he was now very much reduced, and both very thirsty and hungry, attempts were made “ to introduce nourishment by the external wound, by means of a bent catheter that had a bladder tied to it; but the catheter had no sooner touched the top of the gullet than it produced violent efforts to vomit, and convulsive coughing, which tore the wound quite open. Finding this method would not succeed, I laid it aside, and trusted to strong nutritive injections only. I again put in a stitch or two into the fore part of the windpipe, but soon found they could be of no service, for they not only prevented a reunion, but kept up a constant irritation on these sensible parts. I therefore next day removed them, and only continued the stitches in the external wound, for the mucus and matter now prevented adhesive plaster from sticking; and in order that there might be very little stress on the external stitches, I kept his chin confined close to his breast by means of pillows under his head, and a night-cap with straps that tied under the arm pits. About this period small granulations of flesh made their appearance on the wound.” On the twenty-fourth day he was “ sitting up in bed with a plate before him containing boiled rice. I asked if lie had swallowed any, to which he made signs that he had, by patting his belly, and expressing great joy of countenance. I desired he would make another attempt, and found, to my great astonishment, that he could swallow some, though by much the greatest part came out by the wound.” He continued to mend, and “ about the end of six weeks from the accident, the external wound healed up entirely, except over the pomum Adami, which, by being a little hurt, gradually sepa- rated; and as the separation was very slow, a small part of the external wound turned fistulous, and so left a passage into the windpipe, through which he could breathe at pleasure, though he generally breathed by the mouth as before, and could swallow either liquids or solids without any part coming by the wound.” A fortnight after, he went out, got drunk, and vomiting the following morning, *• some of the remains of the liquor probably got into his windpipe, for he fell back on his bed and expired in an instant” On examination, there was found “ a perfect reunion of all the injured parts; the os hyoides was rejoined to the windpipe in the fore part by means of a soft but tough sub- stance, which occupied the place of the scutiform and thyroid cartilage. The rima glottidis was attached to the sides of the os hyoides by a tough membranous cicatrix, which marked the extent of the wound in its first state. All the muscles inserted into the os hyoides and originating from the cartilages, &c., had, after being cut through in the accident, retracted, and on one side formed a large and hard substance, about twice the size of the pomum Adami.” (p 434-443.) Dr. Ryan also relates (a) another, and very similar, case, in which, as in the former nature seems to have had most to do with the cure. Cask.—A negro received several wounds in the neck, which, when seen some time after the accident, appeared to be “ thrusts or incisions with a knife between the upper edge of the right side of the thyroid cartilage and the os hyoides; one incision was made transversely, it began below and opposite the middle of the base of the os hyoides, and extended almost as far as the right carotid ; it seems to have totally divided the sterno- hyoid and hyo-thyroid muscles. This incision was crossed by another, which was made in a longitudinal direction.” When first found, “they gave him some drink, but it all came out through the wound; and they, as well as he himself, declared, that till the thirteenth day after the attack he swallowed nothing whatsoever. Hence he was almost (a) Duncan's Medical Commentaries, vol. viii. London, 1183.