IN THE NECK. 283 re-collection of the pus should make it necessary, is to be repeated in the same way (3). Compare B. St. Hilaire (a) upon the symptomatic abscesses which accompany caries of the vertebra, and upon the possibility of being able to determine anatomically, from the external seat of these depositions of pus, the diseased vertebra. [(1) In regard to the fact “some cases occur in which the caustic issues seem to be productive of little or no benefit,” Brodie observes, “ probably it is with diseases of the vertebral as it is with those of the other joints, and issues may be of little or no effi- cacy where the ulceration of the cartilages is preceded by a scrofulous disease of the cancellous structure of the bones ; and they may be productive of real benefit where it takes place under other circumstances. Nor, if my observations on the subject be well foimded, is this to be regarded as a merely theoretical opinion. I have repeatedly known the greatest relief to follow the establishment of issues where the patient has suffered severe pain in the situation of the carious vertebra, presenting, at the same time, no dis- tinct indications of a scrofulous diathesis ; while in young persons, with fair complexion and dilated pupils, in whom the disease has proceeded with little or no pain, they have appeared to be either inefficacious or actually injurious. It appears to me, also, that, in caries of the spine, as well as in that of other joints, issues are to be employed only in the early stages of the disease with a view to prevent suppuration, and that they are of no service after abscess has actually formed.” (p. 268.) With great deference to so high authority as Brodie, I cannot agree to the opinion last mentioned, as 1 am quite sure that I have several times seen issues extremely useful after suppuration has taken place, so that, under their employment, the irritation which has given rise to the abscess has subsided, and the disease cured. (2) “ The mode in which the disease becomes cured is,” says Astley Cooper, “ by the upper portions of the vertebra falling on the lower, and, in this way, anchylosing. This must be your object in the treatment of this disease. You should keep the spine of the child as much as possible at rest; with this view he should be constantly in the recum- bent posture, so that the vertebra may be suffered to fall into contact, and, by coalescing, effect anchylosis. If you attempt to keep the spine straight, you will defeat the object of nature ; do not keep the patient in a direct straight line, but rather assist nature in producing the union of the vertebra. * * * If the child cannot be kept at rest, if the parents are unable or refuse to observe these instructions, the next best treatment will be to apply one of Callow’s backs, which is worn upon the spine, and fixed round the pelvis and shoulders. As to avoiding deformity, that is out of the question; in all these cases deformity is inevitable: whatever you do, this cannot be prevented.” (p. 459.) “The incurvation forwards,” says Lawrence, “is necessary to fill up the deficiency produced by the ulcerative absorption. The bodies of those vertebra which have been partially destroyed cannot be restored, for, as the spine bends forwards, the upper part comes in contact with the inferior, and an imperfect kind of anchylosis ensues ; some additional bony matter is thrown out, which attaches the two ends of the chasm, conso- lidates them together, as we might say, gives a sufficient degree of solidity to the parts, and enables them to sustain the weight of the body above, and to admit of the ordinary motions of the spine. The curvature, therefore, here, is really only a necessary part of the curative process. The disease cannot be brought to an end with preservation of the straight figure of the spine where it has gone to a certain extent; nor when the curva- ture has once taken place, will any attempt to restore it succeed.” (p. 562.) “ From the first moment,” says Brodie, “ in which the nature of the case is clearly indicated, the patient should abandon his usual habits and be confined altogether to his bed or couch. In some instances in which severe pain in the vertebra is among the early symptoms of the disease, the patient will submit to the privations which are thus imposed upon him with sufficient willingness, while in others nothing but a candid ex- position of the ill consequences which may otherwise arise will overcome his reluctance to do so. The invalid bedstead, contrived by Mr. Earle, will, in ordinary cases, afford the most convenient means of conducting this part of the treatment. The use of it is attended with this great advantage, that the patient may be laid on his back, and the trunk and thighs may be, from time to time, and within moderate limits, elevated or depressed, so that their relative position may be varied without the smallest movement being communicated to the carious vertebra. Where, however, the disease has been going on for a long time, and there exists already a considerable angular curvature of the spine, it is desirable that the patient should recline on his side rather than on his back ; or if he finds this in any way inconvenient or disagreeable, he should lie, not ou (a) Journal Helxlomadaire, 183-!, Decembre.