448 TREATMENT OF PENETRATING part, after the manner of Reybard and Nevekmann («); its immediate ligature proposed by Ben. Bell (b); the compression of Lottery (c), Quesnay (c1), Belloq (e), and Harder (/); the compressors of De- sault and Sabatier (<?), by means of a square piece of linen, of which the middle is so deeply thrust into the wound and fitted with charpie, that if the ends be pulled the middle is pressed as a plug against the artery ; or by a proper, thick plug, furnished with a strong thread, passed through the wound, and, by means of the thread brought to the rib. Ac- cording to Medin the wounded vessel should be completely cut through with a myrtle leaf, pushed back, and a tent pressed upon it. Assalini proposes cutting the artery through, and allowing it to retract ; to close the wound carefully, and subsequently to discharge the existing extra- vasation. Grossheim (A) recommends von Arendt’s aneurismal needle. My observations to the contrary are in the Heulelberger klinischen Annalen (i). Nevermann (A), after enlarging the wound to the intercostal muscles, divides the latter together with the pleura, a little from the lower edge of the upper rib for some lines, and introduces a staphylorapbic needle armed with a thread Hat into the chest upwards, so that the point of the needle is some lines above the rib; the needle is then drawn round, so that the point readily turns forwards to the incision, and passed with it close to the bone, and specially on its under edge; he then pulls the thread out of the needle’s eye, withdraws the needle, and ties together the intercostal artery, vein, and nerve. 493. To employ the greater number of the plans of treatment recom- mended and above described, for stanching bleeding of the intercostal artery, a large wound is always needed, and if the wound be not large, it must be increased. They are generally to be considered as exceedingly dangerous proceedings, the result of which is always uncertain. If the uncertainty be remembered, in which the Surgeon generally finds himself as to the source of the bleeding, and that in simultaneous injury of the lungs, the bleeding from those organs is increased by the employment of most of these remedies, the application of immediate ligature or of com- pression must not be unconditionally recommended. Injury of the in- tercostal artery, near the breast-bone or in the middle of the ribs, where most wounds of the chest occur, does not always produce severe bleeding, as foreign and home practice proves (/). The injury of the intercostal artery, near its origin, always indeed causes very dangerous bleeding; but in this case also on account of the depth of the artery, and also the know- ledge of the source of the bleeding, is the application of the preceding means difficult and indeed impossible (m). It is most suitable therefore, in bleeding from the intercostal artery, to employ only such treatment as is pursued when the bleeding is from a vessel of the lungs, and to hope that by closing of the wound, by strict antiphlo- gistic treatment, by cold applications to the chest, by the pressure of the blood retained in the cavity of the chest, the wounded artery will become («) Above cited, p. 141, plate iii. fig. 2. (b) System of Surgery, 3rd Edit. Edinburgh, 1787. (c) Memoires de l'Academie do Chirurgie, vol. ii. (d) Dissertatio de Haemorrhagia Arteria: inter- costalis sistenda. Berol., 1823. (e) Medecine Operatoire, vol. i. p. 179. (/) Neue Beinerkungen und Erfahrungen. Ber- lin, 1781, vol. i, p. 59. (f/1 Manuale de Chirurgia. Milano, 1812. (A) In von GraEfe and Wai.ther's Journal. (t) Vol. iii. part ii. (I<) Ueberdasbeste Verfahren, eine Ilaimorrhagie der Art. intercostalis nachVerwundungen zu stillen in Berliner Med. Centralzeitung, 6 Aug. 1836. (l) Ravaton, Pratique Moderne de la Chirur- gie. Paris, 1785, vol. ii. p. 130. Spiess, above ited. (m) Chelius, Ueber die Verletzung der Art. in- tercostalis in gerichtlich medicinisclier Ilinsicht; in Ileidelberger klinisch Annalen, vol. i. part iv. also vol. iii. part ii., and in Spies, above cited, See also Von Graefe, Bericht fiber das klinische chirurgisch-augenarztliche Institut der Universitat zu Berlin fiir das Jahr 1826. Berlin, 1827. And in Journal fiir Chirurgie und Augenheilkunde, vol. x. p. 369.