INFLAMMATION OF THE LUMBAR MUSCLES. 185 VI.—OF INFLAMMATION OF THE LUMBAR MUSCLES. Ludwig, Diss. de Abscessu Latente. Lipsisc, 1758. Pott, Percivall, On the Palsy of the Lower Limbs; in his Chirurgical Works, vol iii. London, 1783. 8vo. Pearson, John, Principle of Surgery, &c. London, 1788. 8vo. Meckel, Diss. de Psoitide. Halim, 1796 Kirkland, Thomas, M.D., An Enquiry into the present state of Medical Surgery, vol. ii. London, 1783. 2 vols. 8vo. And Appendix to the same. London, 1813. 8vo. Abernethy, J., Surgical Observations on Chronic and Lumbar Abscesses; in his Surgical Works, 2nd Edit., London, 1815, vol. ii. p. 137. Cooper, Astley, On Psoas and Lumbar Abscess Surgical Lectures; in Lancet, 1824, vol. ii. Lawrence, William, On Chronic Abscess; in Surgical Lectures in Lancet, 1830, vol. i. Dupuytren, Article De la Carle de la Colonne Vertebrale; in his Le<;ons Orales, vol. i. 180. Inflammation of the Lumbar Muscles (Lumbago, Psoitis, Lat.; Entziindung der Lendenmuskeln, Germ.; Inflammation des Muscles Lom- baires, Fr.) is situated in the musculus psoas and m. quadratus lumborum, and in the surrounding cellular tissue (1). It sometimes occurs suddenly ; the patient feels pain in the loins ; walk ing becomes troublesome ; the thighs can be neither raised nor completely extended without pain. Sometimes it commences gradually, with pricking pain, which, becoming more severe, spreads into the hip and thigh to the knee-joint. Not unfrequently the course of the inflammation is so insidious that it is scarcely noticed, and the disease is first shown by the collection of pus. According to the degree of the inflammation does suppuration occur early or late. The pus collects in the cellular tissue surrounding the psoas muscle,descends in its course, and a swelling is produced beneathFoupAKT’s ligament, in the neighbourhood of the rectum, upon the spine, and so on. During these collections of matter, the patient suffers pain in the loins ; walking is troublesome, a movement of the pus contained in the swelling is !felt on coughing ; the swelling is smaller when in the recumbent posture ; at first the skin is unchanged. The general symptoms of suppuration, as emaciation, night sweats, hectic fever, and so on, rarely occur when the 1 extent of the abscess is not large. But if, during its increase, the skin cover- ing it inflame and break, pus is discharged at first without smell, but sub- sequently stinking, and the powers of the patient are quickly exhausted, or the aperture draws together and remains fistulous for a long time. [(1) It must be distinctly understood that the disease now under consideration, is not that we usually call “ Lumbago,” which consists of a rheumatic inflammation of the ' Dmbar fascia, but the complaint which we know as “ Psoas or Lumbar Abscessand. as will be presently seen, it is almost always a secondary disease, a disease in the part, and not of the part, as Hunter calls such, resulting from affection of the vertebrae, and would be more in place if considered with diseases of joints, under the head “ Inflamma- tion of the Vertebral Joints.” (par. 257 and following.)—J. F. s. Astley Cooper says of this disease:—“ You may know this abscess by the following marks:—in the first place, when you ask the patient whether he has for a long time had continued pains in the loins; if he has psoas abscess, he will reply ‘ yes ; four, five, or six monthsyou will find that he has a difficulty in extending the thigh if he puts his legs together, he feels pain and tightness in the groin, and has increased pain in attempt- ing to exert the limb, in consequence of the psoas muscle being then on the stretch.”