526 FRACTURES OF THE NOSE-AND apparatus, by scraping and rasping thinner, by aseton drawn through the callus (a), by division with the saw, chissel, and hammer (6). By the internal use of the Cai’lsbad waters, Briesche (c) has observed, in a few days, such a dissolution of a recent but pro- perly formed callus that motion was again noticed at the fracture. [594.* Before closing the subject of fractures in general it will be well to notice the bending of bones produced by falls or other violence, when, from a deficiency of earthy matter in their walls, they will not break. I have seen it several times in weakly children, more commonly in the upper than in the lower extremity. The bone or bones are usually more or less bent in the middle, just as a softened stick of sealing wax might be bent. Of course no crepitation is to be expected, nor is the injury accompanied with much pain even on handling. No forcible attempt should be made to restore the natural position of the bone, for if such be made the pro- bability is that it will break in two. Gentle bending back will sometimes diminish the deformity ; but it is best to apply a well-padded splint length- ways on the concavity, and gradually, by repeated rolling from day to day, to bring down the bend ; and when this is affected, the limb may be enclosed in a pair of splints, and so kept for three or four weeks, during which time the constitution should be strengthened by tonic remedies.—J. F. S.] Second Chapter.—OF FRACTURES OF BONES IN PARTICULAR. I.—OF FRACTURE OF THE NOSE-BONES. (Fr actum Ossis Nasi, Lat.; Bruche der Nasenknochen, Germ.; Fracture de l’Os du Nez, Fr.) 595. Fractures of the Nose-bones are, on account of the projection of the nose and the few soft parts which cover it very frequent, always con- sequent on immediate violence, and therefore always accompanied with bruising or wound. The fracture may be simple, vertical, or transverse, in which cases the separation of the broken ends is slight, and the diagnosis difficult or impossible, if there be much swelling; or the nose-bones may be broken into many pieces which are pressed in, so that the diagnosis is easy from the great deformity. Fractures of these bones may be accom- panied with severe bleeding, and with symptoms of pressure or concussion of the brain, which latter symptoms depend on the propagation of the vio- lence to the brain, and not on the pressing in of the walls of the nose, or of the cribriform plate. If the displaced bones cannot be returned to their proper place, great deformity always remains. In compound fractures of the nose-bones suppuration and exfoliation of bone easily follows. Such injuries may be fatal from accidental affections of the brain. 596. In simple fracture of the nose-bones without displacment the treatment consists simply in the general and local use of antiphlogistic remedies, in order to prevent or disperse the inflammation and swelling of the parts. If the edges of the fracture be pressed in, they must be raised by the introduction of a female catheter, or the handle of a scalpel covered with linen, into the nostril, the forefinger of the left hand being placed on the outer surface of the depressed pieces of bone, to prevent them being (а) Reinhoi.d in Hufeeand’s Journal, 1826, s. 5. Zeitschrift flir die gesammte Medecin, vol. iii. p- (б) Riecke in Oesterlen, p. 138 —Clemot in 118. (c) Hufeland’s Journal, October, 1816.