431 TONGUE, NECK. i I I I? lii must neither speak nor chew ; he must be fed with strong broth, which is to be conveyed into the stomach by an elastic pipe passed through the nose, or by nutritious clysters. [Lawrence observes (a), when the tongue is severely bitten during fits, “ that bleed- ing takes place which is very difficult to stop. I remember,” says he, “ having had a child under my care who had bitten very deeply into the substance of the tongue, just at the broadest portion of its loose under part; he had divided it horizontally, nearly in the middle line, and bleeding took place, which I found it impossible to restrain by any styptic application. I employed in vain the oil of turpentine, and a saturated solution of alum freely, and the child had lost so much blood, that I deemed it in danger, if haemorrhage continued or recurred. But at last I stopped the bleeding by the following measure, which, however, seems rather a rough one: I introduced at the basis of the loose part of the tongue, bringing it downwards, a strong needle armed with a ligature, and cutting the ligature off after I had brought the needle through, made two ligatures; I tied them tightly one on each side, so as to embrace between the two the whole surface of the wound, including nearly half of the loose under part of the tongue. This stopped the ha’inorrhage. I was rather apprehensive that, by causing the loss of so much of the substance of the tongue, some bad effect might have been afterwards produced, but it was not, and the subsequent articulation of the child was perfect.” (p. 763.)] OF WOUNDS OF THE NECK. 464. Wounds of the Neck either injure merely the coverings, the super- ficial muscles, or the deeper-lying vessels and nerves, the wind-pipe and gullet, or even the spinal marrow. Cuts are the most frequent and have either a vertical or transverse direction. If they penetrate merely through the skin and superficial muscles, they may be united with sticking plaster, and the union of transverse wounds on the front of the neck may be assisted by binding the neck forwards, but in longitudinal wounds it must be stretched backwards. Bleeding from the external jugular vein may be stanched, either of itself or by slight pressure. In wounds with loss of substance, or such as suppurate largely, the head, towards the end of the cure, must always be kept straight, and the sinking of the pus behind the breast-bone prevented. [Astley Cooper says that the wound above the larynx, which passes through the muscles of the jaw and tongue, into the pharynx, being generally indicted between the chin and os hyoid.es, is the most frequent injury, (p. 242.) The wound may be either above or below the tongue-bone, and in the latter case the epiglottis is commonly more or less completely sliced off, which renders the case more dangerous on account of the irritation to which the larynx is subjected. In one such case Astley Cooper stitched the epiglottis to the thyroid cartilage, and the patient recovered, hut he was uncertain whether the recovery was attributable to that proceeding.] 465. Deeper penetrating wounds, in which the large vessels are wounded, are usually soon mortal from the sudden bleeding. In injury of the carotid artery assistance is still possible if it be at once compressed by an assistant at the wounded part, the wounded end laid bare and tied (b). In slight injury of the internal jugular vein, the bleeding should be stanched by com- pression, or, if it be completely cut through, it must be compressed above the injury, and the upper end tied after proper enlargement of the wound. In making these ligatures sufficient care should be taken that the nerves lying ,n) Lectures in Lancet, 1829-30. vol. ii. b) IIebenstreit; in his additions to Benjamin Bell’s Surgery. Abernethy’s Surgical Works, vol. ii. p. 115. Larrey, Memoires de Chirurgie Militaire, vol. i. p. 115. Hennen, John, Observations, See., p. 356. Collier; in the Medico-Chirurgical Trans actions, vol. vii. p. 107. Cole ; in London Med.Repository, May, 1820 Thomson, John, M.D., Heport'of Observa- tions made in the British Military Hospitals in Belgium, See., 1816. London. 8vo. Breschet; in French edition of Hodgson's Treatise on the Diseases of Arteries and Veins, &c., 1815. London, vol. ii. sect. v. p. 37, note. Textor ; in Ncuen Chiron., vol. ii. p. 2.