579 FRACTURES OF THE KNEE-CAP. a patient cannot bear them. To these belong the bandages and apparatus of Bucking (a), Evers (b), Mohrenheim (c), B. Bell (d), Boyer (e), A. Cooper (f), Baillif (y), Fest (h), and many others. 697. If, as is generally the case, inflammation and swelling immediately set in together, they must be first got rid of by proper treatment, the joint being kept in the position already described, (par. 694,) before proceeding to set the fracture, and to the application of bandages. As often as the apparatus becomes loose, it must be reapplied ; in seven or eight weeks’ time it may be removed, but the patient must still be very careful in moving about. The longer the patient remains quiet, the sooner bony union takes place. A stiffness of the joint frequently continues, which only gradually subsides; often incurable anchylosis ensues (1). The latter seems to arise from the application of the bandages, before the in- flammation of the joint is got rid of. If the intersubstance be very wide, the knee must be supported with an elastic bandage. The motions of the limb in these cases may be also often improved, if gradual and more violent motions of the leg be performed, by which the contracted m. rectus again lengthens itself to a certain degree (2). f(l) I have never seen anchylosis of the knee-joint from fracture of the knee-cap, and can only imagine its occurrence under very peculiar circumstances.—j. f. s. (2) John Hunter observes:—“ Other things are to be done after the union has taken place. First, the accommodation of the muscles to their new situation, where less length is necessary, from the patella having become longer; secondly, the new con- traction in this new situation; thirdly, acquiring sufficient strength in it. We have reason to believe that the greatest contraction in a muscle is somewhat greater than the joint will allow of; for we find them firm when the limb is stretched, as if the power • was greater; and when the part is deprived of this firm band, we find the muscles draw the bone up higher than they should. Thus the upper part of the patella is always drawn up when the bone is broken. While the union is taking place, the muscles are accommodating themselves to the great length of the bones. After this it will be ne- cessary to bend the limb and keep it so, in order that the muscles may be thus enabled to admit of an elongation equal to the flexure of the limb, by which means the patient will be enabled easily to bend the limb. Extension will not be so easy; still, by per- severance, it may be acquired.” (p. 512.) He then mentions a case in which the broken pieces of bone having been left far apart, the patient had lost the use of her limb, although it could be swung backwards and forwards as she sat upon a high table ; and he considered that he cured her simply by inducing her to direct her Mill to the excite- ment of the action of the rectus muscle. And he explained how this was effected, first, by reference to the condition of the muscle, “ that the space between the two attach- ments of the rectus being much shortened, while the muscle continued of the same length, the utmost degree of its contraction would scarcely be able to straighten itself, much less move the patella and leg also.” And then, that “ if the influence of the mind was frequently exerted on the muscle, it would gain this power of contraction, in which it would probably be aided by the interstitial absorption taking place, and actually shortening the muscle, and suiting its length to the office it was to perform.” (p. 513.) In other words, and more briefly, the object is to produce in the rectus muscle a re- covery of its tonicity, by educating it to contract and permanently shorten itself, so that it may re-acquire the power of acting on the knee-cap, and extending the leg which it previously had, but of which it is deprived by the ascent of the broken part of the knee- cap rendering it lax instead of tort when the leg is straight. I believe the best mode of recalling the m. rectus to its proper function is, after having kept the patient in bed five or six weeks, by which time it may be presumed whatever union will, has taken place, to get him up, place him on a table, w ith his ham on its edge, and direct him to swing the leg backwards and forwards, frequently during the (6) Richter'schirurg. Biblioth., vol.x. p. 153 (c) Beobactungen verschiedener chirurgischen Vorlalle, vol i. Wien, 1780. (d) Lehrbegriff der Wundarzneikunst, vol. iv. P-430, pi. iv.f. 1,2,3. (a) Above cited. (e) Above cited, pi. iii. (/) Above cited, pi. ix. f. 9, 10,11. [ij) Ortali.i, De fractura Patellae. Berol., 1827, i. 52. (Jx) Dissert, de fractura Patellae. 1827. 4to. 2 p 2