387 CONSEQUENCES AND TREATMENT. results of these bruises (1). But if it be impossible to arrest the symptoms of inflammation, and proper antiphlogistic treatment do not prevent the passage of the inflammation into exudation and suppuration within the skull, a circumscribed swelling is formed, the pericranium separates, the exposed bone has a grayish colour, and its texture is changed, symptoms of pressure on the brain ensue, and trepanning is indicated (2). If the suppuration and exudation be confined to one particular part between the skull and the dura mater, the operation may be serviceable (3). But most commonly, in simultaneous diffusion of the exudation over the whole surface of the brain, nothing can prevent the fatal termination. [(1) I prefer poultices in bruises of the scalp, as well as in other parts, to cold applica- tions; but in military surgery the use of cold lotions is especially recommended by Guthrie and Hennen. Directly there is any appearance of a disposition to inflammation of the dura mater, and if there be tenderness and pufliness of the scalp, free cuts down to the bone should be immediately made in the latter, and calomel administered internally till the gums are tender. Under this treatment the symptoms subside. The determination to trepan the skull, as proposed by Chelius, is not a matter of so slight import as he seems to think; for it is very difficult, indeed impossible, to decide on the special point of the effusion; and as frequently as not, the effusion is beneath the dura mater, instead of above it. I recollect having once witnessed an improvement upon trepanning in a case of this sort, in which the surgeon bored half a score gimblet-lioles through the skull; the pus happened to be between the bone and the dura mater, and readily escaped, but the patient died.—j. f. s. (2) The following are the rules and reasons laid down by Dease for applying the d' trephine in these cases:—“After making use of such evacuations, &c., on the first appearance of the symptoms, as the surgeon shall think proper, if he finds they are not [ii mitigated, or although they should for two or three, or even more days, if they return, and the patient grows every hour visibly worse, I think the trepan should not be deferred. I 1st. Because we cannot tell but the disease is confined to the detachment of the dura r i mater and its suppuration, and the brain may not be injured ; so that, in this case, the , patient will be relieved by the operation. 2d, As there are no visible means left but the operation to relieve the patient, to give him ever so small a chance will be better than leaving him to certain death.” (p. 96). (3) In reference to the existence of pus beneath the dura mater, Guthrie makes the i following very important observations. “ I have seen,” says he, “ on the removal of a >i portion of bone by the trephine, the dura mater rapidly rise up into the opening, so as 1 to attain nearly the level of the surface of the skull, totally devoid, however, of that ’i pulsatory motion which usually marks its healthy state; and an opening into it, under these circumstances, has allowed a quantity of purulent matter to escape, proving that -I the unnatural elevation of the dura mater was caused by the resiliency of the brain, i when the opposing pressure of the cranium was removed. I consider this tense s elevation and the absence of pulsation to be positive signs of there being a fluid beneath, requiring an incision into the dura mater for its evacuation. It is a point • scarcely at all noticed in English surgery, although much insisted upon in France.” i (p. 125). In regard to puncturing the dura mater, when no pus is found between it and the . skull, Dease observes :—“ As the injury is seldom confined to the dura mater, the pia i mater being too often the seat of suppuration, it may be thought an advisable means to open the first the membrane, if by the trepan no relief has been procured the patient. »i! Although in such a desperate case, any attempt that even bore the possibility of succeed- ing should be embraced; yet this will prove in general, from all I have ever seen, ineffectual; and for this reason,—the matter is seldom or ever collected in one place, but generally diffused over one or both hemispheres of the brain, or part of them; and ■ although it should be immediately under the perforation, we cannot consider the fine i Pla mater by any means equal to form such a cyst as might limit or circumscribe it, as we see the cellular membrane does in external inflammations that suppurate. However, as opening this membrane, in those desperate circumstances, cannot add to the danger, a small one may be made writh a lancet, which afterwards, if it be thought necessary, or °j any advantage to the patient, may be enlarged. I have recommended a small inci- > sion on this account, that the crucial one as is ordered in most of our treatises on