609 TREATMENT. graduated compresses on both sides, and fixing them with bandages, (Jorg.) Moulin’s perineal forceps (a), or the introduction of different bodies into the vagina for the pur- < pose of removing and absorbing all fluids, are extremely uncertain. | [(I) Duparcque does not agree with drawing up the thighs. He says:—“ I think it better to leave the thighs completely extended, a position, in which the buttocks being more close together, at the same me diminishes the perineal space.” (p. 422.) He also thinks other means more effective in producing compression may be had recourse to, and mentions a case in which he “ introduced into the vagina a large flattened gum elastic pessary, having a large central aperture, into which he fixed the funnel-shaped extremity of a large elastic tube. The pessary pretty exactly fitting the vagina pre- vented the lochial discharge filtering between it and the sides of the canal, and con- sequently from getting between the lips of the tear. As the instrument reached above the top of the wound, it could not prevent the meeting of its edges; besides, the com- i pression which it exercised on the rectum contributed to keep up the constipation he desired.” In addition to this he placed a long cotton cylinder along each side of the torn vulva and perineum, confined them by a double-tailed f bandage, the tails of which, continued between the trochanters, and ischial tuberosities, had their inner edges brought together by sewing. The case did well.] 742. Small tears of the perineum, cured as already mentioned, are ac- I companied with no further inconvenience than with the disagreeableness of a great width of the vagina. Larger tears cause besides the usual relaxation of the vagina, protrusion of its front or hind wall, also dropping and prolapse of the womb; the ability of retaining the stools is not prejudiced, but wind frequently escapes, and in diarrhoea the needs are : very pressing. As the woman is generally alarmed at her condition, such • ; cases rarely become the object of definite treatment. The changes of the external generative organs thereby produced, are, however, of such kind, that all simple tears of the perineum should be treated with the greatest care. In the old tears which have extended into the vent, the impossibility of retaining the stools continues; at least, in that case the flatus and soft motions pass away unexpectedly on the slightest excitement. [“ Slight cases (of torn perineum) will often,” says Dr. Churchill (£>), “heal without ■ assistance. Even when the rent is more extensive, a cure may be effected without further interference than great cleanliness, keeping the patient in one position, so as to preserve the edges of the wound in contact, and constipating the bowels after free purgation.” (p. 409.) My friend Dr. Waller informs me that most of the cases of torn perineum which have come within his knowledge, have done well without any operation: and that even after the most severe tears, as when the m. sphincter ani is torn through and both rectum and vagina are laid into one, he has known instances of re- covery with capability of retaining the motions, and with the simple inconvenience o- the patient being compelled to hasten quickly to the water-closet, immediately on feel ing the slightest disposition to go to stool, as when the motions approached the vent they l could not be restrained from voidance. How under such circumstances the stools are retained may perhaps be explained by Dr. Burns’s observation (c), that “ it sometimes happens that the torn extremity of the rectum or the anterior parts containing a frag- ment of the sphincter or a portion of the internal sphincter, as it has been called, forms a kind of flat valve, which rests on the posterior surface at the coccyx, so that the orifice now resembles a slit, and the faeces, unless very liquid, remain in the hollow of the sacrum and do not pass through the valvular orifice till an effort be made to expel.” (p. f>8.) The scarring of the lips of the torn perineum Duparcque describes as taking place “ m two directions; at first in its thickness, so that the skin of the perineum and the mucous membrane of the vagina approach and run into each other, except where the perineal partition is very thick and there an intermediate scar is produced, having the characters of mucous membrane. The scarring occurs also at the same time in the longitudinal direction of the lips of the wound; this shortening is only effected at the expense of the tissues corresponding to the angles. In the case of tearings of the furcula and perineum, the labia which alone can readily stretch, are then drawn back by this mode of scarring; thus we may be assured that in women who have had the (a) v. Froriep’s Notizen, vol.xxiii. p. 26. I (") Observations on the Diseases incident to (c) Principles of Midwifery, &c. 6th Edit. Lon- 1 regnanev and Childbed. Dublin, 1840. 8vo. don, 1824. 8vo.