J7JS £lrK3fTHE WORKS JOHN HUNTER, F.R.S. VOL. III.THE ‘WORKS OF JOHN HUNTER, F.R.S. t. WITH ,. - - / r f"* ■—* 'r*v w- ' W • 'i • NOTES A ^ Q & I*** > EDITED BY JAMES F. PALMER, SENIOR SURGEON TO THE ST. GEORGE’S AND ST. JAMES’S DISPENSARY J FELLOW OF THE ROYAL MEDICAL AND CHIRURGICAL SOCIETY OF LONDON, ETC. IN FOUR VOLUMES. ILLUSTRATED BY A VOLUME OF PLATES, IN QUARTO. VOL. III. LONDON : PUBLISHED BY LONGMAN, REES, ORME, BROWN, GREEN, and LONGMAN, PATERNOSTER-ROW. 1837PRINTED BY RICHARD AND JOHN E. TAYLOR, RED LION COURT, FLEET STREET.CONTENTS OF VOL. III. 1. Treatise on the Blood, Inflammation, and Gun-shot Wounds. 2. Observations on the Inflammation of the Internal Coats of Veins. 3. On Introsusception. 4. An Account of Mr. Hunter’s Method of performing the Operation for the Cure of Popliteal Aneurism, by Sir Everard Home, Bart., from Materials furnished by Mr. Hunter. 5. Additional Cases to illustrate Mr. Hunter’s Method of performing the Operation for the Cure of Popliteal Aneurism, by Sir Everard Home, Bart. 6. A Case of Paralysis of the Muscles of Deglutition cured by an Artifi- cial Mode of conveying Food and Medicines into the Stomach. 7. Some Observations on the Loose Cartilages found in Joints, and most commonly met with in that of the Knee, by Sir Everard Home, Bart., from Materials furnished by Mr. Hunter. 8. Observations on certain Horny Excrescences of the Human Body, by Sir Everard Home, Bart., from Materials furnished by Mr. Hunter.A TREATISE ON THE BLOOD, INFLAMMATION, AND GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. BY JOHN HUNTER, F.R.S. WITH NOTES BY JAMES F. PALMER, SENIOR SURGEON TO THE ST. GEORGE’S AND ST. JAMES’S DISPENSARY; FELLOW OF THE ROYAL MEDICAL AND CHIRURGICAL SOCIETY OF LONDON, ETC.« 'TO THE KING. May it please Your Majesty, In the year 1761 / had the honour of being appointed by Your Majesty a Surgeon on the Staff in the expedition against Belleisle. In the year 1790 Your Majesty honoured me with one of the most important appointments in the medical depart- ment of the army, in fulfilling the duties of which every exertion shall be called forth to render me deserving of the trust reposed in me, and not unworthy of Your Majesty’s patronage. The first of these appointments gave me extensive op- portunities of attending to gun-shot wounds, of seeing the errors and defects in that branch of military surgery, and of studying to remove them. It drew my attention to in- flammation in general, and enabled me to make observations which have formed the basis of the present Treatise. That office which I now hold has afforded me the means of ex- tending my pursuits, and of laying this work before the public. As the object of this book is the improvement of sur- gery in general, and particularly of that branch of it whichDEDICATION. X is peculiarly directed to the service of the army, I am led by my situation, my duty, and my feelinys, to address it, with all humility, to Your Majesty. That Your Majesty may long live to enjoy the love and esteem of a happy people, is the fervent wish of Your Majesty's Most faithful subject, And most dutiful Servant, JOHN HUNTER. Leicester Square, May 20, 1793.CONTENTS. Introduction. 1. Of Diseased Actions, as being incompatible with each other.—2. Of Parts susceptible of particular Diseases.—3. Of Sympathy.—4. Of Mortification page 1 PART I. Chap. I. General Principles of the Blood. 1. Of the Mass of Blood, as composed of different Parts.—2. Of Co- agulation and its Effects.— 3. Of the Serum.—4. Of the red Glo- bules.—5. Of the Quantity of Blood, and Course of its Circulation. 6. Of the Living Principle of the Blood.—7. Some unconnected Ex- periments respecting the Blood page 10 Chap. II. Of the Vascular System. 1. General Observations on Muscular Contraction and Elasticity.—2. General Observations on the Elongation of Relaxed Muscles.—3. Of the Structure of Arteries.—4. Of the Vasa Arteriarum.—5. Of the Heart.—6. General Observations on Blood-Vessels.—7. Valves of Arteries.—8. Of the Division or Branching of Arteries.—9. Of the Action of the Arteries, and the Velocity of the Blood’s Motion.—10. Of Veins page 145 PART II. Chap. I. Union by the First Intention. 1. Of Injuries in which there is no external Communication.—2. Of Injuries where the Wound communicates externally.—3. PracticalCONTENTS. Xll Observations respecting Union by the First Intention.—4. Of Scab- bing.—5. Accidents attended with Death in a superficial Part. page238 Chap. II. Fundamental Principles op Inflammation. 1. Of the different Causes which increase and diminish the Suscepti- bility for Inflammation, either in the whole Body or in Parts.—2. Effects of Strength or Weakness of Constitution and of Parts while under Inflammation.—3. Of Parts of the Body most susceptible of the three different Inflammations to be treated of.—4. Of the two Parts that have the Orders of Inflammation respecting Priority in- verted.—5. The Natural Cause of the Adhesive Inflammation being limited.—6. Of Inflammation—its stages.—7. Of the different De- grees and different Kinds of Inflammation page 261 Chap. III. The Adhesive Inflammation. 1. Action of the Vessels in Inflammation.—2. Of the Colour, Swelling, and Pain of Inflamed Parts.—3. The Heat of Parts in Inflammation. —4. Of the Production of Cold in Inflammation.—5. Of the Time the Adhesive Inflammation commences after its Cause, and in what Cases and Parts it is imperfect in its Consequences.—6. Of the Uni- ting Medium in Inflammation.—7. The State of the Blood and of the Puise in Inflammation.—8. The Effects of Inflammation on the Con- stitution according to the Structure of the Parts, Situation of similar Structures, and whether Vital or not Vital.—9. General Reflections on the Resolution of Inflammation.—10. Of the Methods of Resolu- tion by constitutional means.—11. The Use of Medicines internally and of local Applications in Inflammation.—12. General Observa- tions on Repulsion, Sympathy, Derivation, Revulsion, and Transla- tion.—13. Of the different Forms in which Medicines are applied, and the Subsiding of Inflammation.—14. Of the Use of the Adhe- sive Inflammation page 320 Chap. IV. Of the Suppurative Inflammation. 1. The Symptoms of the Suppurative Inflammation.—2. Of the Treat- ment necessary in Inflammation when Suppuration must take place.X CONTENTS. 3. The Treatment of the Inflammation when Suppuration has taken place. 4. Collections of Matter without Inflammation.—5. Of the Effects such Formations of Matter have on the Constitution.—6. The Effects of the Suppurative Inflammation on the Constitution, page 403 Chap. V. Or Pus. 1. Of the General Opinion of the Formation of Pus.—2. Of the Pro- perties of Pus.—3. Of the Use of Pus page 439 Chap. VI. The Ulcerative Inflammation. 1. Of the remote Cause of the Absorption of the Animal itself.—2. Of the Disposition of living Parts to absorb and be absorbed.—3. Of Interstitial Absorption.—4. Of the Progressive Absorption.—5. Of Absorption attended with Suppuration, which I have called Ulcera- tion.—6. Of the Relaxing Process.—7. Of the Intention of Absorp- tion of the Body in Disease.—8. The Modes of Promoting Absorp- tion.—9. Illustrations of Ulceration page 459 Chap. VII. Granulations. 1. Of Granulations independent of Suppuration.—2. The Nature and Properties of Granulations.—3. Longevity of Granulations.—4. Of the Contraction of Granulations page 488 Chap. VIII. Of Skinning. 1. The Nature of the new Cutis.—2. Of the new Cuticle.—3. Of the Rete Mucosum page 500 Chap. IX. Effects of Inflammation, and its Consequences on thf. Constitution. 1. Of the Hectic.—2. Treatment of the Hectic.—3. Of Dissolution. page 506XIV CONTENTS. PART III. The Treatment of Abscesses. 1. The Progress of Abscesses to the Skin.—2. Of the Time when Ab- scesses should be opened.—3. Of the Methods of opening Abscesses, and treating them afterwards page 518 PART IV. Chap. I. Of Gun-shot Wounds. 1. The Difference between Gun-shot Wounds and common Wounds.— 2. Of the different Effects arising from the Difference in the Velo- city of the Ball.—3. Of the different Kinds of Gun-shot Wounds. page 541 Chap. II. Of the Treatment of Gun-shot Wounds. 1. Of the Propriety of dilating Gun-shot Wounds.—2. Of the strange Course of some Balls.—3. Penetrating Wounds of the Abdomen.— 4. Of penetrating Wounds in the Chest.—5. Of Concussions and Fractures of the Skull.—6. Of Wounds compounded with Fractured Bones, or containing extraneous Bodies.—7. Of the Time proper for removing Incurable Parts.—8. Of the Treatment of the Constitution. page 548PREFACE. THE philosophic spirit which pervades every part of the ensuing Treatise, and the profound insight which it discovers of the operations of the animal ceconomy, both in health and disease, have universally procured for it a high rank among medical writings. We should not perhaps greatly err in stating that its distinctive merit consists in the bold enunciation of the governing laws of life, with reference more especially to the healt hy organization, and in the application of those laws to the elucidation of disease. In this respect the Author may justly claim the merit of having originated a new method of investigation, and of having prosecuted this method in a manner and to an extent which was never contemplated by any previous physiologist, either as regards the comprehensive system of illustration which is adopted, or the masterly exposition of the recipro- cative influences of the different organic systems on one another. In the introductory discourse to his Lectures on the Principles of Surgery, the Author distinctly de- clares this to have been his object; for “ By an acquaint- ance with principles,” he observes, “ we learn the causes of disease, and without this knowledge a man cannot be a surgeon.” Those, therefore, who apply the ordi-XVI PREFACE. nary rules of a petty criticism to the present work will form a very incorrect judgment of its merits, while those who come to its perusal with the expectation of finding a simple exposition of disease, will probably be much disappointed. The reader who would form a just and accurate appreciation of a work of this character, should bring to the task considerable liberality of mind, and at the same time an independency of judgment, wdiich can admit the general propriety of an observation, and yet know how to make those due and necessary abatements which all general propositions require. The Treatise on the Blood and Inflammation has popularly been considered as Mr. Hunter’s chief Work, and that on which his fame as a Physiologist has prin- cipally reposed. This opinion in some respects is cor- rect, but in others it does great injustice to the Au- thor ; for though undoubtedly the Work in question contains many profound views of the animal oeconomy, of unrivalled excellence and value, it never can be regarded as the type and consummation of all his previous researches. In order to evince the absurdity of such an opinion, it is only necessary to glance at the extensive series of preparations contained in his museum, and to reflect on the impossibility of em- bodying the physiological inferences deducible from such a mass of materials in the limited compass of a volume. From the Author's own allusion to the sub- ject, in his paper on Digestion, as well as from the ge- neral nature of the preparations which were made, especially the prolegomena attached to the physiologicalPREFACE. xvn series of preparations, and the numerous highly finished drawings by which these were illustrated, there can be no question that a general treatise on physiology was designed, which, had the Author been spared to com- plete his plan, would have exhibited in a more just light the originality and comprehensiveness of his mind. To what purpose would he otherwise have bestowed such extraordinary assiduity in compiling ten folio volumes of notes, but that he might, in the decline of his life, complete from that source the great undertaking to which his whole life was devoted ? In treating of the subject of Inflammation, the Author has commenced the inquiry by an investigation into the general properties of the blood, which he proves, by a new train of argument, to be possessed of life, like the solid parts, so as to constitute the chief bond of union by which recently divided parts are united : he next takes a comprehensive survey of the vascular system, and of its functions in health and in disease ; and having discussed the subject of union by the first intention, which he considers to be an act essentially different from inflammation, he at length enters on the main subject of his discourse. This he treats in the order of its terminations, and in reference to the various circum- stances which have a tendency more or less to modify the local and constitutional phenomena which it pre- sents; and finally he illustrates the whole subject by a series of cases selected from the different organs and structures of the body, and especially by the subject of gunshot wounds. In the course of these inquiries the VOL. III. bPREFACE. XV111 author is not unfrequently observed to diverge into collateral disquisitions, especially on physiological to- pics, which bear only in a remote manner on the main subject of his treatise, but which, from the importance of the principles which they involve, or else perhaps from the habit to which his mind had been accustomed of considering the body as a whole, it fell within his original purpose to consider. I shall not here stay to discuss the propriety of such a course on ordinary oc- casions, or whether such an example is to be held out to imitation to inferior minds ; but such a course I am convinced was admirably calculated to call forth the immense treasures of Mr. Hunter’s experience, and to cement more firmly that alliance between Pathology and Physiology which forms the characteristic feature of his doctrines. In one respect such a desultory mode of composition must undoubtedly be considered as a defect, from its tendency no less to embarrass the reader than to divert his attention from the main scope of the discourse. It is, however, a defect which the author would probably have himself corrected, had he lived to superintend his work through the press, and more par- ticularly if his life had been spared to have given to the world a second edition of this great master-piece of his genius. When I first undertook the office of revising and com- menting upon Hunter I was less fully impressed than I now am with the difficulty of the undertaking, and I should probably have entirely abandoned the task but for the reflection that no weight would be attached toXIX PREFACE. the opinions of his commentator beyond what was fairly warranted by the force and justness of his argu- ments. The rule which I have chiefly observed in the inser- tion of notes has been to correct any impressions, ari- sing from the Author’s statements, which the progress of science has rendered doubtful. On such occasions, however, I have invariably given my authorities, or as- signed the reasons of my dissent, so that, after all, the reader will be left very much to his own judgment. Sometimes I have been able to confirm Mr. Hunter’s conjectures by more satisfactory proof, and occasion- ally I have thought it expedient to collect into one point his scattered statements respecting particular points of doctrine, so that the reader might, in one view, be able to see all that has been said on the subject. I cannot, however, flatter myself that I have attained either of these objects, and still less that I shall escape altogether the imputation of presumption. Much of the obscurity, so often complained of in the present treatise, is to be ascribed to the peculiar circum- stances under which it was given to the world. It was published under circumstances of haste, and at a period of the Author’s life when he regarded his state of health as very precarious, and when his faculties, oppressed by repeated illnesses, cannot be considered to have been in their full vigour; in addition to which only a small part of the work was through the press at the time of the Author’s death, and therefore it could not receive the full benefit of his corrections, or even of those of his b 2XX PREFACE. executors, who, in consequence of the numerous profes- sional calls upon their time, were compelled to relin- quish the task. Many errors consequently have been allowed to pass unobserved both in the text and punc- tuation, which often vitiate the sense, and still more frequently render the meaning of the Author extremely difficult of extrication. These have been carefully cor- rected, and occasionally the correction has been ex- tended still further; but, for the satisfaction of the reader in such cases, the original text has been sub- joined at the foot of the page, or the interpolated pas- sages inclosed within brackets. JAMES F. PALMER. 38, Golden Square, June 1, 1837. N.B. The Editor’s Notes are distinguished from the Author s by being placed below the line, within brackets. They are also further distin- guished by initial letters instead of the usual marks of reference.A TREATISE ON THE BLOOD, INFLAMMATION, AND GUNSHOT WOUNDS. INTRODUCTION. THE following pages, treating of inflammation, were first arranged in the year 1762, at Belleisle, after the complete reduction of that place. They were compiled from notes and memorandums of observations made in the course of twelve years’ residence in London. During this space, my time was occupied in my education under the late Dr. Hunter, and partly in assisting him. In the winter season I was principally em- ployed in the dissecting-room, where I taught the practical part of ana- tomy ; in the summer I attended the hospitals. The truth of these ob- servations was during the siege of Belleisle in some degree put to the test, by comparing them with many cases of -wounds which were attended with inflammation. From the frequency of gun-shot wounds at that place, I was naturally led to arrange my thoughts upon the subject, and was induced to select them more particularly for the illustration of my opinions on inflammation. About the year 1770, when I began my lec- tures on the principles of disease, inflammation was the subject of a considerable part of them; and from that time till this, though I have been extending and correcting the materials, my principles remain the same. To distinguish the different species of inflammation*, and to * In the course of this work I very often make use of the word species or specific, by which I only mean peculiarities or distinctions, and probably the term is much too loose in its application; for, as we are not entirely acquainted with the specific dif- ferences in disease, we may call that a species which more properly ranks as a genus, class, &c. Of morbid poisons we can make a correct arrangement j but with regard to disease arising from peculiarities in the constitution, we have no such absolute guides. VOL. m. u2 INTRODUCTION. express my own ideas the better, I was naturally led to substitute such terms as appeared to me more expressive of what was meant than those usually employed. The best test of the propriety of these terms is, that they have been adopted by many medical writers since that period; and indeed my principles have undergone the same kind of test. In this some medical writers have been very liberal; for, not contented with taking hints, they have even laid hold of large portions of my lectures, screen- ing themselves under the very honourable protection of their not being in print; and, at the same time, quoting authors to show their reading and their candour. It would appear that they consider the discoveries and opinions of a lecturer, found probably in a manuscript, as fair game; though their delicate attention to the rights of another would, no doubt, have prevented them from adopting the same doctrines had they been actually in print. Such freedoms have made me anxious to publish; not only because the public interests itself in the origin of every disco- very or opinion, but because I wish to preserve my right, and also to give in a more perfect form what was thought worthy of the public even in a mutilated state. My respect for that public, however, has with- held me hitherto from publishing, that I might first be able to complete my subject, as far as time and other circumstances would allow me. I hope this publication will, at least, have equally good effects with those I have before produced, not only enabling persons to write on the same subject who could not otherwise have done it, but even to become critics in matters of which till then they were entirely ignorant. I have endeavoured, as far as my other pursuits would permit, to form this work into a regular system, one part exactly depending on another. How far I have succeeded, the world must judge. But at the same time it ought to be considered as a new figure composed from rough ma- terials, in which process little or no assistance could be had from any quarter; wherein the author is conscious of many imperfections, more of which he is persuaded he shall himself observe at every successive review. There are many opinions respecting the animal ccconomy peculiar to myself which are introduced, or frequently referred to, in the course of this work. It is therefore necessary to premise a short explanation of some of them, that the ideas and terms which are employed may be better understood. To others of them, however, this method cannot be applied, as they belong essentially to the body of the work, or are so immediately connected with it as to be best understood when treated in connexion with that part. I shall carry my ideas of life further than has commonly been done. Life I believe to exist in every part of an animal body, and to render it3 INTRODUCTION. susceptible of impressions which excite action; there is no part which has not more or less of this principle, and consequently no part which does not act according to the nature of the principle itself, and the im- pressions thence arising, producing thereby infinite variety, both in all natural and diseased acts. How far every part has an equal quantity of life, or of the powers of life, is not easily ascertained; but if wre were to estimate them by the powers of action, we should judge tolerably well. Disease would seem to give some intelligence with regard to this mat- ter ; but how far resistance to disease, and powers of restoration, depend on the powers of life, or simply on the powers of action8, I cannot say; but I believe it may be set down as a rule that those parts that are en- dowed with most action resist disease most strongly, and in disease restore themselves most readily to a healthy state. §. 1. Of diseased Actions, as being incompatible tenth each other. As I reckon every operation in the body an action, whether universal or partial, it appears to me beyond a doubt that no two actions can take place in the same constitution, nor in the same part, at one and the same time; the operations of the body are similar in this respect to actions or motions in common matter. It naturally results from this principle that no two different fevers can exist in the same constitution, nor two local * [I believe a distinction should be made between resistance to disease and the powers of restoration. The former would seem to be in proportion to the vital energy residing in a part independently of action, as in a fresh-laid egg subjected to cold, whereas the latter would appear to be in proportion to the vital energy conjointly with the powers of action. Action, in the physiological sense of the word, can neither be supposed to exist in an unorganised body nor in an organised body stiffened by cold, although it is well known that living bodies are capable of resisting the effects of a low temperature under both these conditions; that is, the vital principle resists by a species of simple antagonism, just as gravity resists force, or chemical attraction electricity, although the former powers may be overcome by the latter when the latter are in greater intensity. In disease also, and especially in epidemical and infectious diseases, the weak and de- bilitated are most liable to catch the iufection, and generally fall the first victims; so also in poisons, those parts which are least endowed with life are those which perish most readily. On these occasions, action, it is true, is produced; but then it is a subse- quent, or at the most only a concomitant, efTect, intended for the reparation of the injury and absolutely necessary for this purpose. However, it is highly probable that the powers of a part or of the system may be temporarily increased by certain species of fevers and inflammations, which may thus indirectly tend to increase the power of re- sistance. On the same principle, infection is most effectually resisted by those who are actively engaged in the pursuits of life.] B 2INTRODUCTION. 4 diseases in the same part, at the same time. There are many local dis- eases which have dispositions totally different, but, having very similar appearances, have been supposed by some to be one sort of disease, by others to be a different kind, and by others again a compound of two diseases. Thus, the venereal disease, when it attacks the skin, is very similar to those diseases which are vulgarly called scorbutic, and vice versd. These, therefore, are often supposed to be mixed, and to exist in the same part. Thus we hear of a pocky-scurvy, a pocky-itch, rheu- matic-gout, &c. &c., which names, according to my principle, imply a union that cannot possibly exist. It has been considered as contradictory to this opinion that a patient might have the scrofula, scurvy, venereal disease, smallpox, &c. at the same time. All of this is indeed possible ; but then no two of them can exist in the same part of the body at the same time : but before one of them can occupy the place of another, that other must be first destroyed, or it may be superseded for a time, and may afterwards return. When a constitution is susceptible of any one disease, this does not hinder it from being also susceptible of others. I can conceive it pos- sible that a man may be very susceptible of every disease incident to the human body, although it is not probable; for I should believe that one susceptibility is in some degree incompatible with another, in a man- ner similar to the incompatibility between different actions, though not of so strict a kind. A man may have the lues and the smallpox at the same time; that is, parts of his body may be contaminated by the venereal poison, the smallpox may at the same time take place, and both diseases may appear together, but still not in the same part. In two eruptive diseases, where both are necessarily the consequence of fever, and where both naturally appear after the fever nearly at the same distance of time, it would be impossible for the two to have their respective eruptions, even in different parts, because it is impossible that the two preceding fevers should be co-existent. From this principle I think I may fairly put the following queries: Do not the failure of inoculation, and the power of resisting many in- fections, arise from the existence of some other disease at that time in the body, which is therefore incapable of another action ? Does not the great difference in the time, from the application of the cause to the appearance of the disease, in many cases, depend upon the same principle ? For instance, a person is inoculated, and the puncture does not inflame for fourteen days, cases of which I have seen. Is not this deviation from the natural progress of the disease to be attributed to another disease in the constitution at the time of inoculation ?INTRODUCTION. 5 Does not the cure of some diseases depend upon the same principle ? —as, e.g., the suspension or cure of a gonorrhoea by a fever. Let me illustrate this principle still further by one of many cases which have come under my own observation. On Thursday, the lGth May, 1775, I inoculated a gentleman’s child, and it was observed that I made pretty large punctures. On the Sunday following, viz. the 19th, he appeared to have received the infection, a small inflammation or redness appearing round each puncture, and a small tumour. On the 20th and 21st, the child was feverish ; but I declared that it was not the variolous fever, as the inflammation had not at all advanced since the 19th. On the 22nd, a considerable eruption appeared, which was evidently the measles, and the sores on the arms appeared to go back, becoming less inflamed. On the 23rd he was very full of the measles; but the punctures on the arms were in the same state as on the preceding day. On the 25th the measles began to disappear. On the 26th and 27th the punctures began again to look a little red. On the 29th the inflammation in- creased, and there w'as a little matter formed. On the 30th he was seized with fever. The smallpox appeared at the regular time, w'ent through its usual course, and terminated favourably1 * 3. 1 [In our ignorance of the essential nature of diseases, the principle which is here laid down may be considered perhaps as too absolutely expressed. The disposition and appearances of specific diseases are unquestionably greatly modified by the existence of peculiar states of the constitution at the time, as of scrofula, gout, rheumatism, &c., and this in so striking a manner as to render the distinction between a modified and a con- joint disease almost invisible. Thus the affections which result from the abuse of mer- cury on a constitution affected with syphilis are suigeneris, and cannot be produced by either of these poisons acting separately. Thus also the phenomena of smallpox and cowpox present many peculiarities which are scarcely reconcileable upon the doctrines laid down by our author. Dr. Willan, for example, found “ that when a person was inoculated with vaccine and variolous matter about the same time, (that is, not exceed- ing a week,) both inoculations proved effective, for the vaccine vesicle proceeded to its acme in its usual number of days, and the maturation of the variolous pustule was at- tended by a variolous eruption on the skin.” (On Vaccine Inoculation, p. 1.) Dr. Wood- ville also has said, “ that if the cowpox matter and the smallpox matter be both inserted in the arm of a patient, even within an inch of each other, so that on the ninth day the same efflorescence becomes common to both the local affections, nevertheless inocu- lating from the cowpox tumour the genuine vaccine disease will be produced,” (Observa- tions on the Cowpox, p. 12.); but if the inoculation be performed with a mixture of the two matters, then the chance is equal that smallpox or cowpox will be the result, or the vari- oloid disease, either one of which is capable of conferring an immunity on the patient so affected. Here, therefore, are two diseases acknowledged to be distinct and consti- tutional, not only coexistent in the system at the same time, but (from the blending of the areolar inflammations) apparently in the same part. These phenomena are pro- bably as uncommon in disease as the hybridous productions of the animal and vege- table world in reference to the usual course of generation. Of the latter there is no question, and I do not perceive any antecedent presumption against the occurrence of the former.]6 INTRODUCTION. §.2. Of Parts susceptible of particular Diseases. .There are some parts much more susceptible of specific diseases than others. Poisons take their different seats in the body as if they were allotted to them. Thus, the skin is attacked by what are vulgarly called scorbutic eruptions, as well as many other diseases ; it is also the seat of the smallpox and the measles : the throat is the seat of action in the hydrophobia and the hooping-cough. The absorbent system, especially the glands, are more susceptible of scrofula than most other parts of the body. The breasts, testicles, and the conglomerate glands are most commonly the seat of cancer. The skin, throat, and nose are more readily affected by the lues venerea than the bones and periosteum, which however suffer sooner than many other parts, particularly the vital parts, which perhaps are not at all susceptible of this disease. These differences may arise from the nature of the parts themselves, or from some regular circumstances, which must act as a pre-existing cause. §.3. Of Sympathy. It is unnecessary to give a definition of sympathy, for it is generally very well understood when applied to the mind, and also by medical men when applied to the body. In the mind its reference is external; it depends upon the state of others, and one of its chief uses is to excite an active interest in favour of the distressed, the mind of the spectators taking on nearly the same action with that of the sufferers, and dis- posing them to give relief or consolation: it is therefore one of the first of the social feelings, and by many useful operations inclines mankind to union. In the body, sympathy has only a reference internally to the body itself, and is not so evident as the sympathy of the mind, although in some cases we see its effects. It is either natural or diseased; but it is the diseased only that I propose at present to consider. I shall divide the sympathy of the body into two kinds, universal and partial. By the universal sympathy is meant where the whole constitution sympathises with some sensation or action of a part. By partial sym- pathy is meant where one or more distinct parts sympathise with some local sensation or action. The universal sympathies are various in dif- ferent diseases ; but those which arise in consequence of local violence are principally three, viz. the symptomatic, the nervous, and the hectic fever. The symptomatic fever is an immediate effect of some local in- jury, and therefore is a universal sympathy arising from a local cause; the nervous has no determined form nor stages of the disease from the7 INTRODUCTION. first cause, as delirium, spasm, almost of all kinds and in all parts, locked- jaw, &c. The hectic fever is also a universal sympathy, attended with a local disease which the constitution is not able to overcome. Most of these will be more fully treated of when I have occasion to describe their causes. I divide partial sympathy into three kinds: the remote, the contigu- ous, and the continuous. Tire remote sympathy is where there appears no visible connexion of parts that can account for such effects. In these cases there is com- monly a sensation in the sympathiser which appears to be delusive, and produces a wrong reference of the mind to the seat of the disease, such as the pain of the shoulder in an inflammation of the liver. The contiguous sympathy is that which appears to have no other con- nexion than arises from the contact of separate parts. An instance of which we have in contained parts sympathising with the containing; such as the stomach and intestines sympathising with the integuments of the abdomen, the lungs with the chest, the brain with the scalp, and the testicles with the scrotum. The continuous sympathy is where there is no interruption of parts, and the sympathy runs or is continued along from the irritating point as from a centre, so as to be gradually lost in the surrounding parts in proportion to the distance ; and this is the most common of all the sym- pathies. An example of it we have in the spreading of inflammation, which will be often mentioned in this treatise®. §.4. Of Mortification. Mortification is of two kinds, the one without inflammation, and the other preceded by it. But as the cases of mortification which will be mentioned in this work are all of the second kind, I shall confine my observations to that species. I consider inflammation as an increased action of that power which a part naturally possesses; and in healthy inflammations, at least, it is probably attended with an increase of power; but in inflammations 8 [See the chapter on Sympathy, Vol. I. p. 317, for a more complete exposition of Mr. Hunter’s views on this subject. It is doubtless in many cases possible to trace the sympathy to a particular distribu- tion of the nerves, as when, for example, the nerves of the affected and sympathising parts derive their origin from the same parts of the nervous centre. Thus, pain in the back is occasioned by irritation of the pelvic viscera, and hemicrania from caries of the teeth. A perfect knowledge of the minute anatomy of the brain, and of the functions °f its different parts, would probably unfold the whole mystery of this subject.]8 INTRODUCTION. which terminate in mortification there is no increase of power*, but on the contrary a diminution of it. This, when joined to an increased action, becomes a cause of mortification, by destroying the balance which ought to subsist between the power and action of every part. There are, besides, cases of mortification preceded by inflammation, which do not arise wholly from that as a cause, but rather seem to have some- thing in their nature; of this kind is the carbuncle, and the slough formed in the smallpox pustule. If this account of mortifications arising from no specific nature be just, we shall find it no difficult matter to establish a rational mode of cure; but before we attempt this, let us take a view of the treatment which has been hitherto recommended, and see how far it agrees with our theory. It is plain, from the common practice, that the weakness has been attended to; but it is plain that the increased action has been overlooked : and therefore the whole aim has been to increase the action in order to remove the weakness. The Peruvian bark, confectio cardi- aca, serpentaria, &c. have been given in large quantities, as the case appeared to require, or the constitution could bear, by which means an artificial or temporary appearance of strength has been produced, while it was only an increased action. Cordials and wine, upon the principle on which they have been given, are rationally administered; but there are strong reasons for not recommending them, arising from the general effect which they possess of increasing the action without giving real strength. The powers of the body are by this treatment sunk afterwards in the same proportion as they had been raised, by which nothing can be gained, but a great deal may be lost; for, in all cases, if the powers are allowed to sink below a certain point, they are irre- coverable. The local treatment has been as absurd as the constitutional. Sca- rifications have been made down to the living parts, that stimulating and antiseptic medicines might be applied to them, as turpentines, the warmer balsams, and sometimes the essential oils. Warm fomentations have been also applied, as being congenial to life; but warmth always increases action, and therefore should be well adjusted to the case : on the other hand, cold debilitates or lessens powers when carried too far, but at first lessens action. Stimulants likewise are improper where the actions are already too violent. “ [By “power” I apprehend, is here signified the resistance which is offered by a living part to disorganization and death. By the expression, “ the powers of a part, is generally meant the sum of the vital actions going on in that part, as circulation, growth, secretion, &c. Mr. Hunter employs the expression in a less complex sense, so as simply to express by it the degree and prevalence of the vital principle.]9 INTRODUCTION. Upon the principles here laid down, the bark is the principal medi- cine as yet known that we depend upon, as it increases the powers and lessens the degree of action. Upon many occasions opium will be of singular service by lessening the action, although it does not give real strength. I have seen good effects from it, both when given internally in large doses, and when applied to the part. It is proper also to keep the parts cool, and all the applications should be colda. a [Notwithstanding the condemnation which is here pronounced on scarifications and warm dressings, yet experience and theory both tend to confirm the utility of this mode of treatment. The former, or scarifications, afford an exit to putrid matters, while the latter by their antiseptic qualities diminish the quantity which is produced, and at the same time modify its virulence. But it is not merely the constitutional effects which are lessened by these means. There cannot be the slightest question that the local effects are equally mitigated, and the pernicious consequences of sloughs and ill-con- ditioned pus in contact with the living textures materially lessened, by providing a free escape for these matters. This subject will be adverted to more fully when speaking of “ diffuse cellular inflammation,” in which the bad effects of putrid secretions in con- tact with the living solids are most conspicuously shown. In regard to the advantages of bark, I need not here observe that its pretensions in the present day as a medicine in cases of mortification are rated much more moderately than they were formerly. Practitioners no longer think that strength is imparted to the system in proportion to the quantity of bark which the patient is made to swallow.]PART I. CHAPTER I. GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. As the blood is allowed by all to have a considerable share in inflam- mation, or at least to be particularly affected by it, becoming, by its ap- pearances, one of the signs or symptoms of its existence, and as the blood is a material object with me in the theory of inflammation, I shall begin mjr treatise with its natural history, a previous knowledge of which is the more requisite, because the accounts of this fluid hitherto given will hardly explain any of its uses in the machine in health, or of its changes in disease. The heart and vessels are very active in inflammations ; and as their structures and actions have not hitherto been understood, I have sub- joined to the natural history of the blood an account of the structure of the heart and vessels, together with their actions in the machine; to which I have added one use of the absorbents not hitherto known. As every natural action of the body depends, for its perfection, on a number of circumstances, we are led to conclude, that all the various combining actions are established while the body is in health, and well- disposed ; but this does not take place in diseased actions, for disease, on the contrary, consists in the want of this very combination; and dis- eased actions, therefore, vary according to many natural circumstances, of which I propose to point out a few of the most striking instances. Inflammation must have some exciting cause, and the same cause will produce an effect under one circumstance which it will not under another. I have therefore begun with the supposition of an injury, attended with such circumstances as do not excite inflammation, which will form a strong contrast to those which do, the opposite effects mu- tually illustrating each other ; but as inflammation is a very general ac- tion of the vessels in disease, and is of various kinds, I have previously given a short account of several of the most common sorts of inflamma- tion, which will explain the rest.11 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. The whole material world has been very properly divided into solids and fluids, these being the only essentially different states of matter we are able to observe. From one of these states to the other matter ap- pears to be continually passing, but with these restrictions, that no species of matter can assume a solid form without having first been in a fluid state, nor can any change take place in a solid till it be first formed into or suspended in a fluid11. The living animal body is obe- dient to these general laws, for all solid and animal matter has first been fluid, and having passed into this solid form, becomes a recipient for other fluids, out of which the solids may themselves be renovated and increased. The solids of an animal, although composed of one species of matter, yet admit of great variety in their appearance; and this variety takes place in some animals more than in others. But the fluid part of an animal body, in its natural state, has but one appearance, which is that of blood. There are certain parts of animals which, though hardly solid in their own nature, are yet to be considered as solids, from their being fixed in their situation, and appropriated to local actions ; some of them acting on the fluids (which are, to a certain degree, passive in all ani- mals), and disposing of them for particular purposes in the animal ceconomy, in the same manner as is done by those which are usually called the solids in animals; of this sort are the gelatinous parts in many of the inferior orders of sea-animals, as the medusa, the vitreous hu- mour of the eye, &c. There appears to be a sympathetic intercourse between the solid and fluid parts of an animal, designed by nature for their mutual support. In disease, when the machine cannot be fur- nished in the common way, the solids of the body supply the defects, and the person becomes leanb; and the fluids would appear from this to be more an object of attention in the machine than even the solids. This fluid part of an animal is called the blood, and in the animals with which we are most acquainted it is of a red colour. The nature “ [See Vol. I. p. 211. Chemistry affords a few exceptions to the universality of this law. Thus chlorate of potash combines with sulphur or charcoal by mere attrition j and the greater number of fulminating powders are examples of the same kind. Crystals of Glauber’s salt and nitrate of bismuth are converted into a fluid by being rubbed to- gether in a mortar, and so are the solid amalgams of bismuth and lead. The former part of this sentence is manifestly a pleonasm.] b [Without wishing to question the soundness of this opinion, I would yet venture to suggest that it is contrary to analogy to suppose that the body can subsist on its own materials, unless these have undergone a previous digestion. The fattest people, on this principle, would be the fittest subjects for fevers j repeated losses of blood would produce the greatest degrees of emaciation, and those who have most fat would be the best able to endure privations of food; all which is contradicted by observation. I apprehend12 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOO". and appearances of the blood have been more attended to in diseases, especially of the inflammatory kind, than in full health, as it is more expressive of disease when removed from the body than any of the so- lids, and undergoes changes which the solids do not. Some of these changes are produced by the separation of parts from one another; but as the body is seldom in perfect health, we can hardly procure the blood in the same state twice from one person, although it may not be sensi- bly diseased. In a history of the blood these varieties must be men- tioned, although they are often slighter appearances of what we find in disease; for disease certainly throws great light on the natural history of the blood, and the apparent changes which it undergoes must have unavoidably called medical men to consider it with attention. The only knowledge, however, we have of any difference in the blood, arises from these varieties in its spontaneous changes when extrava- sateda; nor do these differences appear always to affect the real nature of the blood, as the animals often continue in health while they are going on. that fatness and leanness depend on a want of balance between the waste and supply, the waste being principally occasioned by an acceleration of the vascular actions, and the more rapid interchange which thence ensues in the molecular particles of the body. This is seen in caterpillars, in young and growing animals, and in birds, as contrasted with amphibia, adults, and animals of the tardigrade species. The former require a continual supply of food to replace the effete matter, while the latter are enabled to sustain hunger for a long time without injury. Thus hybernating animals retain their fatness during the whole period of their torpidity. Dr. Stevens mentions having seen a rattlesnake as fat after nine months’ complete abstinence from food as at the first; and Professor Blumenbach has mentioned similar examples, of a still more remarkable kind. Fevers, on the other hand, rapidly emaciate the body, because in them the sup- ply is cut off at the same time that the waste from excessive action is increased. Thus, also, persons of active minds and bodies are seldom observed to grow fat. Women grow thin during the period of utero-gestation, and animals during the period of the rut. The uses of fat probably are to preserve symmetry and warmth, consequently in man and the cetaceous tribes it serves as a substitute for external clothing.] a [The progress of modern chemistry has not only enabled the pathologist to detect many diseased states of the blood which were perfectly unknown in the time of Hunter (see note, Vol. I. p. 352), but has enabled the physiologist also to pursue his investigations on entirely a new tack, from which the greatest acquisitions to science may be expected to accrue. In order, however, that the alliance of chemistry with physiology may be really rendered useful, it is important to bear in mind that the object of the chemico- physiologist should be not so much to discover the modes in which the vital principle operates, as the results which those operations give rise to, so as to be able to trace their dependence on one another, or the relation in which they stand, as cause and effect. This can only be done by the most scrupulous and exact analyses of the animal fluids, and particularly of the blood, as the point lie depart from whence all the others proceed. Hunter did not altogether reject these aids, although, from the state of organic chemis- try at the time that this treatise was written, he was little disposed to place reliance on the results which it afforded.]GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 13 Blood is most probably as much alike in all animals as the muscle of one animal is like that of another, only with this difference, that some animals have not that part which gives it the red colour; but the other parts, as the lymph and serum, are, as far as I yet know, the same in all8. Transfusion of the blood of one animal into the vessels of another proves, to a certain degree, the uniform nature of the blood, for, as far as these experiments have been urged, no alteration has been observed11. » [Berzelius has verified this observation, as far as regards the serum and fibrin in the higher orders of animals, but the globules are found to vary very considerably in size, shape, number, and composition in the different species. The same authority has also stated that there are two thirds less of the muriates in ox-blood than in that from the human subject, but a larger proportion of nitrogen. (Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. iii.) This latter fact would, indeed, be very remarkable if true, considering that man lives for the most part on a highly azotised food, whereas the ox lives on food which con- tains no nitrogen at all. The recent researches, however, of Macairc and Marcet (Mem. de la Soc. de Phy. et d'Hist. Nat. de Gen&ve, v. 389.) have not only shown the error of this particular fact, but, as far as concerns the ultimate analysis of the blood, have established the almost entire identity between that of herbivorous and that of carnivorous animals. Certain minor differences in colour, in the relative proportions of crassamentum and serum, in the halitus which exhales from fresh drawn blood, and in the period of coagu- lation, have been pointed out by Thackrah; but these are not greater than what may occur in the blood of the same individual taken from two different vessels, or at two different periods of life. (Enquiry into the Nature and Properties of the Blood, by C. T. Thackrah, 2nd Edit. p. 149.)] b [The honour of this discovery has been sharply contested between the French and English. From certain passages in the classics it seems highly probable that the practice was not unknown to the ancients; at any rate the operation was described by Libavius at least fifty years before the English and French controversy commenced. (In Def. Synt. Arc. Chy. contra II. Schneumannam, Act. 2. p. 8. Edit. Francof. a. 1615.) The operation of transfusion was first performed on the human subject in France, by MM. Denis and Emmerets, on the 15th of June, 1667, and repeated in England by Drs. Lower and King on the 23rd of November of the same year. It speedily grew into great favour; but in consequence of the fatal and dangerous effects which ensued in several cases, it was interdicted by a sentence of the Chastelet, and soon afterwards fell into desuetude. The blood of calves and sheep was generally employed in these operations, and, so far as appears, the blood of the human subject was never thought of. In 1785 Dr. Harwood revived the inquiry, by making it the subject of his inaugural thesis, which he supported by many interesting experiments on dogs, which he per- formed in public. (Phil. Trans. Abr., vol. i. p. 185, note.) MM. Prevost and Dumas, Dr. Leacock, and finally Dr. Blundell followed in the same track. It was ascertained by Dr. Harwood, that when an animal was bled to complete syn- cope, it was capable of being resuscitated, by the transfusion of fresh drawn-blood from another animal of the same or a different species ; although when the latter was em- ployed, the animal generally perished before the sixth day. MM. Prevost and Dumas ascertained, that although the respiration remained calm, the pulse became remarkably accelerated, the heat of the body was rapidly dissipated, and the dejections and urine became mucous and bloody, and continued so in many instances until death. They found also, that when blood containing spherical globules was injected into a bird, it died, as if poisoned, with violent symptoms of distress of the nervous system, which ef- fects uniformly occurred, whether the precaution of bleeding the animal beforehandGENERAL PRINCIPLES OF T1IE BLOOD. 14 Concerning natural objects, we usually acquire a gross knowledge, from the frequency with which they are observed, and it often requires little more than common attention to have a tolerable conception of their general principles. This is the case with the blood. Blood is known to be of a red colour in a great number of animals, and to be altogether a fluid while circulating in the living body. It is known to separate into parts when out of the body, and a portion of it to become solid; it is likewise known, that when deprived of a certain proportion of it, an animal dies ; it has, therefore, been held in particu- lar veneration, as constituting the life of the animal. Like other things which are discovered to be of great use, the blood has frequently at- tracted the attention of mankind as an object of curiosity only, from which some have proceeded to a more critical inquiry' into its nature and properties, and to a more extensive elucidation of the subject at large. To this practitioners in physic have a great deal contributed, from a conviction that this knowledge would be of much use to them in their profession ; and the teachers of the art have been still more industrious had been previously resorted to or not. Sheep’s blood restored cats and rabbits for a few days from the exhaustion consequent on excessive hemorrhage ; but it excited rapid and violent convulsions, followed by speedy death, when it was injected into ducks. These experiments, therefore, sufficiently demonstrated the danger attending the trans- fusion of large quantities of blood from an animal of one species into another animal of a different species. Smaller quantities, indeed, were proved not to be dangerous to life, although unpleasant effects generally followed. Thus Mr. Goodridge, of Barbadoes, has lately injected human blood into the veins of a dog, and the animal afterwards survived. Dr. Blundell, to whom the profession is indebted for every practical advantage at- tending this operation, carefully repeated the experiments above mentioned previously to his performing the operation on the human subject. With human blood he nourished a full-grown dog for three weeks by this means alone, and succeeded in reviving another by similar means after it had ceased to respire for full five minutes. In order to prove that the contact of the blood with foreign substances does not deprive it of vitality, or materially deteriorate its qualities, he connected, by means of a syringe, the carotid ar- tery and jugular vein of the same animal, and continued to impel the blood from the artery into the vein for twenty or thirty minutes, until the whole blood of the animal must have passed through the apparatus. (Med.-Chir. Trans., ix. 56. and x. 296.) In order that the operation may be successfully performed, it is necessary to be ex- ceedingly careful to exclude the ingress of air or clots of blood, and to proceed in so gradual a manner as not to endanger a sudden plethora. With these cautions, trans- fusion may be regarded as a valuable auxiliary means in the hands of the surgeon, particularly in the treatment of flooding or alarming haemorrhages from other causes. I may mention that it has succeeded in several cases of this kind where little or no hope could have been entertaiued from any other resources. It is unnecessary to add, that the blood should always be taken from a healthy hu- man subject, and be allowed to stagnate in the apparatus as little as possible. (See VoL I. p. 551, where Hunter appears to have appreciated the value of this means of recovery in the only cases in which it is applicable. The idea of transfusing of human blood does not seem to have occurred to him.)]GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 15 in their investigations; but the frequent recourse which is had to the lancet in diseases has afforded the most ample opportunities of obser- vation, almost sufficient to explain every principle in the blood, without the aid of further experiment. In animals possessed of red blood, two modes of investigation may be adopted. One of these respects the blood while it is circulating, when the colour makes its motion visible, and gives an idea of the cir- culation in the smaller vessels. Accidents, operations, and anatomical knowledge of the vessels in which the blood is contained, have at the same time assisted us to form more perfect ideas of its motion in the larger vessels. The other mode, which is that of examining the blood when out of the body, enables us to observe whatever relates to its spon- taneous changes and separation, together with the apparent properties of each component part. Its chemical properties become known like- wise by this second mode, though without throwing much light on the nature of the fluid itself. The blood is called a fluid because it is always found in a fluid state in the vessels of a living animal while under the influence of the circu- lation ; yet it is not, under all circumstances, naturally so, for of one part of it, when not circulating, solidity is a necessary and essential property, fluidity being only necessary at the time of circulation for its motion, distribution, and the easy separation of its parts. Without being fluid, it could not be propelled through flexible tubes, and distributed to all parts of the body. It could not be divided into portions, as the vessels branch off; it could not pass through the smaller vessels, nor admit of the various separations of its parts, which are to produce the increase and repairs of the whole body; neither could it be adapted for furnishing the various secretions; nor could it be brought back to the heart*. The red colour of the blood is produced merely by some red matter diffused through it, but not common to all animals. The blood exhibits a greater variety of changes, and admits of more experiments to deter- mine its nature and properties, than the solids. This, in some degree, arises from its fluidity, in which form it has not yet attained its ultimate state, and is only the substance that furnishes materials out of which the solids are produced or augmented. • The distribution of water from the sea is similar to the arterial system, and the rivers returning to it have an analogy to the veins j but their effects are different, be- cause the globe works entirely upon its own materials. The waters are continually carrying away the land from one situation, and depositing it in another, taking down continents, and leaving the ocean in their place; whilst at the same time they are rais- ing continents out of the sea. But animals work upon foreign matter, introduced from time to time into the system.16 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF T1IE BLOOD. The heat in the animal body, principally in those which are called warm animals, has been commonly considered as depending principally on the blood, or at least as being connected with it as much as with any other portion of the body*. As I shall have occasion to take notice of the increased heat of inflamed parts, it might be expected that I should endeavour to explain this principle in the history of the blood. I profess, however, not thoroughly to understand it, and the theories hitherto brought forward do not in the least satisfy me, as I think that none of them accord perfectly with every circumstance observable in these cases. §. 1. Of the Mass of Blood, as composed of different Parts. The blood, while circulating in the vessels, appears to the eye to be a homogeneous mass ; but when it is passing in vessels so small as almost to separate its visible parts, and is viewed in a microscope, there is no appearance but that of globules moving in the vessels. In such a situation the other parts, called the coagulable lymph and the serum, are not distinguishable, on account of their being transpa- rent, and the globules do not, strictly speaking, constitute a part of the fluid, but are only diffused through it. These globules being red, give this colour to the blood, and are called the red part, but are not always of the same redness when collected in a mass; this is probably owing to each globule being changed in its tint of colouring. The blood of some animals has no such globules, but is perfectly transparent, indeed more so than the most transparent parts of the red blood, to which it is analogous. A red colour is therefore not essential to constitute true blood; and I believe the slight tinge of colour there is in the blood, in- dependent of the globules, arises from the solution of various substances in the serum. The blood has a peculiar taste, being saltish, but of a peculiar flavour*: we can always distinguish by the taste when there is blood in the mouth. These arc the principal observations we can make on the blood when circulating, or in its fluid state ; but as one part of it under certain cir- cumstances changes into a solid, or as it is commonly termed, coagu- * From whence the expression, warm-blooded or cold-blooded animals j but the ex- pression should rather be, the animals of a permanent heat in all atmospheres, and animals of a heat variable with every atmosphere. a [It is also slightly nauseous and alkaline. Turmeric paper is rendered brown, and syrup of violets green, by the very first drops of serum which exude from the clot.]17 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF TIIE BLOOD. latea, more of its parts are thus exposed; in this process the blood se- parates into two distinct substances, a coagulating part, and another which separates from it and remains fluid; but the coagulum entangles the red part, and this alone shows the blood to be formed of these com- ponent parts. The parts of the blood so separated have been named according to their apparent properties; the one, the coagulable lymph; the other, the serum ; and the red part has been called the red globules ; but upon a more intimate knowledge of the different parts of this fluid, we shall find that those terms are not expressive of all their properties. The term coagulable lymph0 is not expressive of this property, as one which is inherent in the lymph itself, for many substances are capable of being coagulated, though not spontaneously, yet by chemical means. For instance, heat coagulates the farinaceous part of vegetables, and thus forms paste, and also mucus. Spirits of wine coagulates many animal substances; acid coagulates milk, &c.; the term, therefore, to be used respecting this property of the blood should be such as expresses its inherent power of self-coagulation : perhaps coagulating might be better applied to what is called coagulable lymph, and the epithet coagu- lable might be reserved for those fluids which require a chemical process to produce that effect. Of this kind is the serum, for I have discovered this fluid to be composed of two parts, which is ascertained by means of the different causes of coagulation. To discover all the various pro- perties and uses of the component parts of the blood in the machine may be impossible; and to determine whether they will act, or are em- ployed conjunctively to produce the effect, is not easy; but there are some properties discoverable which would incline us to believe that particular parts of the blood are employed to'compose particular solid parts, which are found to possess properties similar to different parts of the blood b. §.2. Of Coagulation, and its Effects. As coagulation is the first change which the blood undergoes when out of the vessels, and as it even coagulates while in them, under cer- * [Gluten, fibre of the blood, and fibrin are terms which have also been applied to this principle of the blood. The latter term is now most frequently adopted, from its being in some degree expressive of the fibrous or half-organized texture which this sub- stance exhibits when the serum is expressed from it. The whole coagulum, consisting of the above-named substance, interposed serum, and red globules, has been variously designated by different writers as cruor, hepar sanguineum, placenta, insula, gluten, clot, and crassamentum.'] [ The probability of the opinion expressed in the text will be adverted to in a fu- ture part of the work. In the present note I propose briefly to point out the principal vol. nr, rGENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 18 tain circumstances, we shall consider this process first. Though fluid- ity is necessary to enable the blood to circulate, yet coagulation is no results which have been obtained by modern chemistry, as regards the composition of the blood. Analysis of healthy serum by M. I.e Canu. Water 1st Analysis. 906-00 78-00 1- 69 2- 10 1-00 1-20 600 2-10 0- 91 1- 00 2nd Analysis. 901-00 81-20 2 05 2-55 1- 30 2- 10 5-32 200 0- 87 1- 61 Organic matters soluble in water and alcohol Albumen combined with soda eagtnous m.i ers CryStallizable fatty matter Hydrochlorate of soda and potash Subcarbonate and phosphate of soda, and sulphate ol'potash Phosphate of lime, magnesia and iron, with subcarbonate 1 of lime and magnesia J Loss — 1000-00 1000 00 Analysis of serum by Berzelius and Marcet. I Water Albumen Hydrochlorate of soda and potash Lactate of soda and extractive matters soluble in alcohol... Muco-extractive matter Subcarbonate of soda and phosphate of soda, and animal 1 matter soluble in alcohol j Subcarbonate of soda Sulphate of potash Phosphate of lime, iron, and magnesia Berzelius. Marcet. 905-01 900 00 80-00 86-80 600 6-60 400 400 4 10 1-65 0-35 0-60 999 10 1000-00 Canu. 2nd Analysis. Average, 119-626 126-313 3-565 2-833 785-590 782-868 69-415 67-252 2-270 1-790 4-300 3-365 1-920 1-855 2010 1-637 7-304 7-837 1-414 1-757 2-586 2-493 1000 000 1000 000 Analysis of healthy venous blood by M. Le Canu Crassamentum depri- \ Colouring-matter ved of water and salts J Fibrin Water Albumen Oleaginous/ Oily matter matters \ Crystallizable fatty matter.. Extractive matters soluble in alcohol 1 and water J Albumen combined with soda Chloruret of sodium and potassium, sub- ") carbonate and phosphate of soda, and > sulphate of potash J Phosphate of lime, magnesia and iron, | peroxide of iron, and suhearbouate of V lime and magnesia J Loss 133-000 2-100 780-145 65-090 1- 310 2- 430 1-790 1-265 8-370 2-100 2-400 1000 000 (Joum. dr Phnrmaeie for Sept, and Or/. 1831. Med.-Chir. Trans., iii. 230.) The greatGENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 19 less necessary when it is to be disposed of out of the circulation, even within the body, and therefore deserves to be considered with no less correspondence of the preceding analyses in all main particulars is a great voucher for their accuracy. I shall only therefore further remark that the muco-extractive matter of Marcet is probably the impure “ lactate of soda and extractive matters soluble in alcohol” of Berzelius, the osmazome of Tlienard and Denis, and the oleaginous and extractive matters of Le Canu. Likewise also the oleaginous matters of Le Canu, which were first fully investigated by Traill, Christison, and Babington, answer to the “ graisse phosphuree rouge et blanche” of Vauquelin and Denis and the “ matibre cere- brate rouge et blanche” of Chevreul. Berzelius is of opinion that the earthy phosphates, the sulphate of potash, and several other substances, are formed during combustion, or by the process of analysis, and do not exist originally in the blood. (Op. cit., pp. 227,233.) We may therefore regard the blood in three lights: 1st, as flowing in the vessels, when we should say that it consists of two substances, the liquor sanguinis and red globules; 2nd, as extravasated from the body, when we should say that it is composed of crassamentum and serum; and 3rd, in its chemical relations, when we should say that it is made up of three parts, essentially differing from each other, viz. water, saline or adventitious substances, and nutritive matters; the latter, in consequence of their close chemical correspondence, being now generally regarded as modifications of albumen. According to some chemists, the blood also contains carbon (Clanny); car- bonic acid (Vogel, Brande, &c.); acetic acid (Hermann); cruorine, cholesterine, and osmazome (Denis) ; seroline (Boudet) ; a yellow colouring-matter (Lassaigne, Chevreul); a peculiar aromatic principle (Barrueil) ; globuline, one of the constituents of the glo- bules, consisting of a modification of albumen and a peculiar colouring-matter (Le Canu); a substance analogous to urea (Raspail, Segalas); copper (Meisner, Sarzeau); soda, either free or in the state of carbonate (nearly all chemists); sulphur (Vogel); and mi- nute traces of silica, alumina, and manganese (Turner and O’Shaughnessy). As the presence, however, of these substances in healthy blood has either been disputed or de- nied by the generality of chemists, it would be improper to include them among the regular constituents of this fluid. The process employed by Le Canu for obtaining the quantitative results contained in the preceding analyses, I shall transcribe in his own words: “ I evaporated," he says, “ a determinate quantity of healthy serum at a gentle heat, and the loss which it sustained gave me the weight of water. Then heating the residue, first with boiling water and afterwards with boiling alcohol, the former dissolved out the soluble salts and extractive matters, and the latter the fatty matters. The aqueous solution being now filtered and evaporated in a sand-bath, and the residue treated with alcohol at 40°, until it ceased to be further coloured, I by this means separated the ex- tractive matters soluble in alcohol. The residue, consisting of salts mixed with ex- tractive matters, insoluble in this menstruum, was calcined, to know the proportion of organic matters, and the new residue treated with boiling alcohol, to separate the hydrochlorates. “ The fatty matters which were taken up by the boiling alcohol were further sepa- rated by means of alcohol at 33°, which when cold does not dissolve the crystallizabte matter; finally, the albumen, thus deprived of all its soluble contents, was dried, weighed, and afterwards calcined. A very small portion of soluble salts, contained in the residue after incineration, was separated by means of water slightly acidulated, which gave rise to a colourless solution, in which the prussiate of potash clearly indicated traces of iron, undoubtedly in the state of phosphate. Ammonia gave rise to a white precipitate, evidently consisting of phosphate of lime and magnesia; for, upon redissolving it in muriatic acid and precipitating the lime by oxalate of ammonia, the filtered liquor was clouded by solution of potash ; and if into the ammoniacal solution thus separated from ' C 220 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. attention. There is, I think, more to be learned of the use of blood in the animal oeconomy from its coagulation than from its fluidity. The coagulation of the blood, when out of the circulation, would seem to be unconnected with life, yet life could not go on without it; for as all the solid parts of the body are formed from the blood, this could not take place if there did not exist in it the power of coagulating. Many dis- eases exhibit the blood coagulated in the living body, even in the ves- sels themselves, but more frequently when extravasated. Coagulation does not belong to the whole mass of circulating blood, but only to the part I have called coagulating lymph, which during this action com- monly detaches itself from the other part, called the serum®. the phosphates, and supposed to contain the muriates of lime and magnesia, I poured oxalate of ammonia, a white granular precipitate was thrown down, consisting of oxalaet of lime, and magnesia remained in the liquor. Thus the ash resulting from the inci- neration of the albumen yielded carbonate of lime and magnesia, phosphate of lime and magnesia, and traces of iron.” Having established the nature of the immediate principles of the blood, and that they all exist in the serum, with the exception of the fibrin and hsematosine, M. Le Oanu next proceeded to make the complete analysis of this fluid. The process for this purpose, as improved by Dr. O’Shaughnessy, is as follows: “ Divide 1000 parts of the clot into two parts; dry one, and estimate the loss; wash the other, to ascertain the quantity of fibrin. As the water given off from the first exists therein in the state of serum, by subtracting the one proportion of solid matter (which the previous analysis of the serum has shown to be contained in 1000 parts thereof) in the interposed serum, from the weight of the dried clot, the difference affords exactly the weight of the fibrin and colouring-matter together. Subtracting again from this the weight of the fibrin, determined by another experiment, the weight of the colouring-matter is accurately obtained. Incineration, finally, of a given weight of the crassamentum gives the quantity of saline matter."—Journ. de Pharmacie, Sept. 1881. O' Shaughnessy on Cholera, Appendix, No. IV., p. 67. The ultimate constitution of the blood, as compared with gelatine, albumen, and fibrin, is exhibited in the following table : Carbon. l Hydrogen. Oxygen. Nitrogen. Blood.. J Arterial 1 l v enous Macaire and r| 50-2 6*6 26-3 16-3 Marcet. L 55-7 6-4 21-7 16-2 Gelatine 1 Gay Lussac ’ and Thenard. f 47-88 7-92 27-20 16-99 ; Albumen Fibrin.. _ 52-88 1 53-36 7-54 1 702 23-87 19-68 15-70 19-93 | The hsematosine, or colouring-matter, according to Berzelius, has nearly the same composition. Gelatine is not found in the blood, nor in any glandular secretion. It con- tains from three to four per cent. less carbon than albumen, and is regarded by Dr. Prout as less advanced in the scale of animalization. Besides these elementary bodies may also be mentioned sulphur, phosphorus, calcium, sodium, potassium, chlorine, iron, and perhaps magnesium. Traces also of aluminium, copper, and manganese have been said to have been detected.] * [This has been doubted by some physiologists, who imagine that the clot essen- tially consists of the central nuclei of the red globules, deprived of their external invest- ment of colouring-matter. (Prevost and Dumas, Ann. de Chim. el de Phy».,xx iii. 51. Young,GENERAL PRINCIPLES OP THE BLOOD. 21 Whether the whole mass of the serum be a distinct part of the blood when circulating is not easily determined, as we have no mode of sepa- rating it from the coagulating lymph, while both are fluid. The serum making a part of the whole mass in the fluid state, the first stage in the coagulation is a species of decomposition, forming a separation of the serum. But, on the other hand, there are reasons for considering the coagulating lymph as distinct from the serum, even when both are fluid; since the serum can be separated from the lymph without coagulating, by many actions of the vessels, both natural, preternatural, or diseased. Thus the liquor of the amnios and that of dropsies are formed; and therefore we may conclude that the separation of the serum, when the lymph is coagulated, is not an act necessary to the coagulation, but an effect of ita. The circumstances attending the coagulation of the lymph are sub- Med. Liter.) I do not agree, however, in this opinion : first, because there is often a real separation of the coagulable lymph from the red globules previous to these losing their form, and before coagulation; and, secondly, because Professor Blumenbach was able, by the aid of a common microscope, to discover the red globules entangled in the translucent lymph, and retaining their perfect shape after coagulation. If any sepa- ration, such as has been supposed, took place of the colouring-matter from the central nuclei, the globules would not be apparent; but the whole would be obscured by a uniform solution of red colouring-matter. That the coagulation of the blood arises from the concretion or gelatinization of the fibrin alone is rendered evident by the fact that if fresh-drawn blood be briskly stirred by a wisp, so as to remove this principle from it, the residuary liquor will not coagu- 28 late. It may perhaps seem surprising that so small a proportion of fibrin as should be capable of giving so great a degree of solidity to the whole mass ; but in this rospect it is nearly equalled by the substance called gelatine, one part of which, dissolved in 100 parts of boiling water, concretes into a solid jelly on cooling.] * [Dr. B. G. Babington, in an admirable paper in the Medico-Chirurgical Trans- actions, vol. xvi. p. 301, has given unanswerable reasons for believing that the serum and coagulable lymph exist in the circulating blood as a homogeneous compound, and not merely in the form of mixture, as has generally been supposed. “ There is no better reason,” he says, “ for affirming that fibrin exists in a fluid state in liquor san- guinis [the term applied by him to this compound] than for affirming that muriatic acid exists in a solid state in muriate of ammonia. The salt indeed is solid of which the muriatic acid forms one ingredient, but the ammonia is essential to the solidity of the compound. In like manner, the compound is fluid of which fibrin forms one ingre- dient, but the serum is essential to its fluidity.” The compound nature of the liquor sanguinis is, I think, further shown from the fact that spirits of wine or turpentine does not immediately affect fresh-drawn blood, although they instantly coagulate the albumen of serum which has once separated from the clot. In answer to the particular objection urged by our author to this view of the subject, it may be replied: 1st, that there is as much reason for believing that the fluids of dropsy, &c. are secreted as there is that they arc simply exuded; for, 2nd, these fluids differ in composition from the ordinary serum of the blood; and 3rd, effusions of serum never take place without corresponding effusions of lymph, and vice versti. This latter point has been particularly discussed by Dr. Babington in the paper before cited.]GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 22 ject to great varieties. These depend upon or correspond with the state of the body at the time, of which we can best judge by the readiness or difficulty with which the blood coagulates, and by the firmness or loose- ness of the coagulum. The whole mass of the blood being a compound, of which the parts are in some degree separated, the appearances upon coagulation are attended with still more variety than the lymph alone could exhibit, or than could occur in those animals which are not pos- sessed of red blood, as the red part brings to view many of the changes in the lymph, by the difference of its colour, as well as of its specific gravity. The three substances, which become visibly distinct when the lymph coagulates, differ as to gravity : the serum is the lightest, and, remaining fluid, swims upon the top ; the red globules, which undergo no change, are the heaviest, and sink more or less in the lymph ; but being entangled in it, add to its weight, so as to make it sink deeper in the serum". Blood when extravasated coagulates sooner or later, according to the quickness or slowness of its extravasation, and the quantity ex- travasated : it coagulates late when drawn into a basin rapidly, and in considerable quantity ; soon, when allowed to flow slowly, and in small quantities. This will be better understood when I treat of the prin- ciples of coagulation. a [The specific gravity of the blood has been variously stated by different experi- mentalists. According to Davy and Scudamore, it is from 1019 to 1051 ; lire makes it 1053; Prout, 1030 to 1055; Blumenbach, 1050; Haller, 1053; Fourcroy, 1056; Jurin, 1054 ; Henry, 1053 to 1126; Whiting, 1055 ; Denis, 1059 ; Thackrah, 1041. These differences have no doubt partly arisen from variations in the state of the system at the time the blood was taken. Braude found that the specific gravity of healthy blood occasionally rose to 1071. Blood, whether buffed or not, has generally a greater spe- cific gravity in acute diseases than under ordinary circumstances; but the reverse ob- tains in diseases of debility. 1050 is the standard which will be assumed in the fol- lowing notes. The specific gravity of serum is subject to scarcely less variation than that of the blood; but I shall content myself on the present occasion with merely stating that the medium 1029'5,as mentioned by Dr. Marcet, is now generally admitted. Dr. Davy re- presents the specific gravity of the red globules as 1087, of the colouring-matter as 1126 to 1130, of the coagulable lymph as 1046 to 1060, and of the whole clot as 1077 to 1084. I conceive, however, in regard to this latter point, that some error must have existed in the experiments; for, as the clot floats in the serum, there cannot, it should seem, be much real difference between them: not to insist on the fact, which will afterwards be adverted to, and which Dr. Babington was the first to point out, viz. that the coagulum which results from the buffy fluid which is skimmed off from inflamma- tory blood is uniform in density throughout, which could not possibly happen if the fibrin were lighter or heavier than the serum. (See Babington, Med.-Ch. Traus., xvi. 298, et seq.) This indeed is one of the arguments which the gentleman above men- tioned has ingeniously employed to prove the homogeneity of the liquor sanguinis, as stated in the preceding note, and it must be admitted to have considerable force.]GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 23 When blood is received into a cup, and is thereby exposed, it cer- tainly coagulates more readily than when extravasated in the cellular membrane or in the vessels; and on the exposed surface it coagulates more readily than anywhere else, except round the edges of the dish in which it is contained. It has been observed that the upper surface ol the blood coagulates first, forming a thin pellicle, as milk does when near boiling, while underneath it still remains fluid ; but the whole gradually becoming thicker, and losing its transparency, coagulates in about fifteen or twenty minutes into a substance of pretty thick consistence. I he time required will vary according to the quantity of blood in one mass and the disposition of the blood at the time11. We may observe the following appearances when the blood is co- agulated. The coagulum is generally, but not always, swimming in a fluid; for it sometimes happens that the lymph does not squeeze out the serum in the act of coagulation, in which there is an act of contrac- tion. The top of the coagulum is toughest or firmest: and it becomes less and less so towards the bottom, because there is less of the coagu- lating lymph at the bottom, in proportion as the red globules subside in the lymph before it coagulates. The coagulating lymph has a de- gree of toughness in proportion as it is free from serum; for while the serum is mixed within it, though there may be no red globules, it is not very tough ; but when pressed between the finger and thumb, so as to squeeze out the serum, it becomes nearly as tough and elastic as the “ [Coagulation commences in about three or four minutes on an average, and is com- pleted in about ten. In about fifteen or twenty minutes the coagulum assumes a “ pretty thick consistence;” but it continues still further to contract and to express the serum for at least three or four hours, and sometimes much longer. The commencement of this process and the degree in which the clot afterwards contracts are subject to be in- fluenced by a great number of disturbing causes : as, for instance, the shape and mate- rial of the vessel, the state of the system at the time the blood is drawn, the quantity of blood collected together in one mass, the rapidity with which the effusion has taken place, the temperature of the air, the partial or complete exclusion of the atmosphere, rest, agitation, foreign substances, &c. These will be considered in the subsequent notes. The period required for the blood of different animals to coagulate has been esti- mated by Thackrah to be, in general terms, inversely as the size of the animal. Thus, in the horse, coagulation commenced in from 5 to 13 minutes; in the ox, from 2 to 10 ; in the sheep, hog, and rabbit, from % to 2; in the dog, from \ to 3; in the duck, from 1 to 2; in fowls, from \ to 1$; in the mouse, in a moment. (Op. cit., p. 151.) There is also a difference in the time required for blood to coagulate from different vessels of the same animal. Arterial blood has generally been conceived to coagulate more ra- pidly than venous, blood from the vena cava than blood from the jugular vein, and portal blood more readily than either. Thus, while blood from the jugular vein of a dog began to concrete in from 1 f to 3 minutes, blood from the portal vein concreted immediately on effusion.]GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 21 coats of au artery, to appearance becoming fibrous, and even forming laminae, and indeed appears to be very much the same kind of substance with an artery, which gives us a clear idea how a membrane may be formed, and probably can be varied, according to the impression made on it by the surrounding parts. This is one reason why the lymph, which has the strongest disposition for coagulation, is the toughest, as it parts with more of its serum. The lymph is transparent, but whether tinged as the serum is found to be we can hardly say, as it is seldom possible to catch it in a fluid state free from red globules, and never from serum, which has itself a tinge. When out of the body in a dish, where it is long in coagulating and the red globules sink fast, we find it trans- parent ; but during coagulation it becomes more muddy, till at last it is opake, but with a tinge of colour. On being steeped in water it is often rendered very white, which would not probably be the case if it had a tinge-of its own, independent of the serum. Blood usually requires a considerable time for its complete coagula- tion, or rather contraction ; for if allowed to stand some days, the co- agulated part becomes less and less, as more and more of the serum is squeezed out, which cannot arise from the serum being lighter and is- suing out spontaneously, for without some expelling force it would be retained mechanically by the capillary attraction, as hi a sponge. The blood which is longest in coagulating coagulates most strongly, and pro- duces the most complete separation of its parts. In such instances, as the coagulating lymph continues longer fluid, it allows the red globules more time to subside, and the serum to be more squeezed out from the crassamentum. When the coagulation is slow, and of that kind which will be firm when completed, we may skim off the fluid coagulating lymph, free from the red globules ; and the part so taken will coagulate immediately, while that in the cup remains fluid some time longer®. Many causes have been assigned for the coagulation of the lymph, which appear to me to be ill founded. It frequently happens that when a [This is not merely the coagulating lymph or fibrin, but the fibrin united to the serum, constituting the liquor sanguinis of Dr. Babington (See note, p. 21.) In itself, and in its mode of coagulation, it does not seem to differ from ordinary blood, except in containing no red globules. When transferred to a globular vessel, it separates into two parts, viz. serum and crassamentum, the coagulation taking place uniformly throughout the mass; that is, every part of the coagulum exhibits the same density, and consequently every part contains the same quantity of fibrin. Hence fibrin cannot exist in a fluid state and be lighter or heuvier than the serum; for if lighter, the upper surface of the clot would be more dense than the lower, and vice versli (see note, p. 22). Hence also the high probability that the liquor sanguinis constitutes a real homogeneous compound, and not a mere mixture of elements. According to Thackrah, more fibrin was found at the lower third of the crassamentum than at the upper,25 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. changes take place in matter of which the immediate causes are un- known, the mind refers them to some circumstances which accompany these changes, although, perhaps, they may have had no concern what- ever in producing them, and may be only attendants, i his will always be the case where those changes arise out of the nature of the part it- self. A seed put into moist ground grows; but the moist ground is only a necessary attendant, and not the immediate cause. The life of the seed, stimulated to action by the moisture, is the immediate cause of its growth, and it continues to grow because its action is always ex- ami least of all in the middle (op. cit., p. 55). I apprehend, however, that the latter part of this statement tends very much to weaken our confidence in these ex- periments. In regard to the duration of the contractility of the clot, Mr. Thackrah observes, that « the quantity of serum decidedly increased for three days, was nearly stationary on the fourth day, and on the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth progressively diminished.” Hence it seems that the contractility of the clot continues for three days, during which time serum is expelled; but after that period relaxation occurs, and a part of the ex- pressed serum is reabsorbed. As the degree in which the clot contracts is inversely as the rapidity of the coagula- tion, whatever influences the coagulation of the blood so as to accelerate or retard this process will have a corresponding influence on the contraction of the clot and the relative quantity of serum which is afterwards expressed. About 10 parts serum to 13—14 crassamentum may be assumed as the standard of health; but, like the contraction of muscles after death, it varies infinitely in different cases. Dr. Babington found the proportion of serum and crassamentum to vary materially in the same blood drawn into differently-shaped vessels. Thus, blood drawn into a pear-shaped vessel and a common basin exhibited the following differences: 1 Tempe of blood. raturc of scrum Specific of blood. gravity of scrum Crass, in pear-shaped bottle. Crass, in basin. To scrum. 1 Case of Purpura 87° 65° 1050 1027 1495 2230 1000 Vertigo during pregnancy 60 60 1049 1028 945 1716 1000 1 Phthisis 87 60 1044 1028 960 1090 1000 | Diabetes melitus.. 90 60 1048 1024-6 1292 1717 1000 The nearer the form of the vessel approaches that of a cube or sphere, the greater will be the proportion of serum. “ This difference is owing to the greater or less di- stance of the coagulating particles of fibrin from a common centre, which causes a more or less powerful adhesion or contraction of these particles. Perhaps few facts relating to the phenomena of venesection are of more practical importance than this, since blood is said to be thick or thin, rich or poor, in reference to the quantity of crassamentum it contains, and views of a disease are founded upon these supposed conditions, which, after all, depend not on the blood itself, but on the vessel into which it is received” (op. cit., p. 297). Thackrah found a similar diversity to arise from the composition of the recipient vessel, a circumstance wltich he attributed to the electric states of the different metals composing it. Thus, while one quantity of the same blood coagulated in a copper vessel in two minutes,and afforded 345-7 serum to 654-3 crass., another equal quantity coagulated in a pewter vessel in 1 miu. and 10 see., and afforded only 54" 1 serum to 945-9 crass, (op. cit., p. 66).]26 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. cited. All the water in the world would not make a dead seed grow. The same mode of distinction is applicable to the coagulation of the lymph. The first observations on the blood were most probably made on that of the more perfect animals, whose heat is commonly greater than the heat of the atmosphere. Such blood when extravasated was found to coagulate on cooling; it was therefore natural to suppose that the co- agulation of the lymph arose from its becoming colder, as happens in jelly*; but cold, simply, has certainly no effect upon the coagulating lymph. If we take a fish out of the sea, the heat of its body perhaps about 60°, and bring it into an atmosphere of 70°, the blood, on being let out of the vessels, will immediately coagulate. This was ascertained on board of a ship lying off Belleisle, in the summer 1761 ; for immedi- ately upon a fish being caught, I ascertained its heat, and letting out part of its blood, it immediately coagulated, although the blood dis- charged was become warmer than that remaining in the vessels of the fish; which, however, still continued fluid. Indeed, common exjjerience and observation show us that cold alone has no power to coagulate the blood. It often happens that particular parts of an animal, such as the fingers, face, nose, ears &c., are cooled nearly to the freezing-point, and frequently are in that state for a con- siderable time, yet the blood retains its fluidity in those parts, as I have experienced in my own fingers; and indeed in those parts of an animal where the blood has been frozen, and again thawed, the blood appears as fluid as before, and circulates as usual. Heat has the power of ex- citing action in an animal, and we find that heat even increases the action of coagulation ; for if blood be heated to about 120°, it will co- agulate five minutes sooner than when kept at its natural heat, and even sooner than the blood of the same animal taken at the same time and cooled to 50of. Mr. Hewson has laboured this point, endeavouring to show it is not cold that makes the blood coagulate, and he has laboured no less to show the real cause of such a change. He took fresh blood and froze it quickly; on being thawed, it was again fluid, but soon afterwards coagulated ; this he conceived to be a * This term has been applied to the coagulation of the blood, but I think improperly ; for I should only call that jelly which became solid by cold, and fluid again by heat: coagulation is totally different, for it is a new species of combination. The freezing of blood may be called congelation. + These experiments were made on the jugular veins of dogs, by taking a section of the veins on each side filled with blood, and immersing them in water, either warmer, or colder, or of the natural heat, and observing the comparative difference.GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 27 sufficient proof that it was not cold which made the blood coagu- late*. From the above observations and experiments, it must appear that cold, simply, has no influence whatever upon the coagulation of the blood®. And in most of the cases in which the blood is observed to coagulate, the air is commonly in contact with it: this was next presumed to be the cause of its coagulation f. But the air has really no more effect than any other extraneous body, in contact with the blood, that is capable of making an impression upon it; for the blood coagulates more readily in a vacuum than in the open air : nor will either of these supposed causes assist in explaining why it is not found coagulated after many kinds of death, nor in the menstrual discharge. Neither will they account for the very speedy coagulation of the blood which usually takes place in all the vessels after death, or when it has been extravasated into cavities, or cellular membranes, where no air has ever been admittedb. * Hewson on the Blood, p. 21. f Ibid., p. 23. a [Sir C. Scudamore found that cold retarded coagulation nearly in the same pro- portion as heat accelerated it. Blood which began to concrete in 4£ minutes in an atmosphere of 53°, underwent a similar change in 2£ minutes at 98°; and blood which coagulated in minutes at 98°, became solid in 1 minute at 120°: but blood which co- agulated firmly in 5 minutes at 60°, preserved its fluidity for 20 minutes at 40°, and required upwards of a full hour for complete coagulation. Hewson had observed that if blood was kept at a temperature of 38° for 24 hours it became thick and viscid, but did not coagulate upon the return of warmth; which fact is capable of generalization, for whatever keeps the blood fluid for a considerable length of time has a tendency to deprive it of the full power of coagulation afterwards. Thackrah asserts, that blood which has once become frozen does not coagulate in any case, but only forms a grumous mass in which there is no separation of parts. (Op. cit., p. 07.) A very high tempe- rature, as 140°—150°, according to Prater, has the same effect, that is, it renders the blood incoagulable; and, what is very remarkable, dilution with water does not restore this property in one case more than in the other (on the Blood, p. 13.). It is sufficient at present to notice these facts, which have been considered by some to bear importantly on the question of the vitality of the blood. 1 may add, however, what is worthy of remark, as bearing on the same question, viz. that low temperatures, (insufficient to prevent coagulation altogether), equally diminish the contractility of the clot and of muscular fibre, while the effect of high temperatures is the very reverse. Thus animals of the order Batrachia immediately perish and become rigid by being immersed in water at a temperature of 108° to 120°. The muscular structures of warm-blooded animals likewise become more or less contracted by all temperatures above blood-heat.] k [Hewson merely contended that air promoted coagulation, not that air was essen- tial to the process. It must be confessed, however, that his expressions are sometimes equivocal, as at p. 123, Vol. I., and in some other parts of his Inquiry. Scudamore took two portions of blood from a man slightly indisposed, and placed one of them under the receiver of an air-pump and allowed the other to be exposed in the open apartment. The former cooled in five minutes from 84° to 75°; the latter fromGENERAL PRINCIPLES OK THE BLOOD. 28 Rest is another cause upon which the coagulation of the blood has been said to depend ; and although this opinion be not true in the full 84° to 82'5°. The former, however, was much the most coagulated of the two at the end of this period; although, as we have before shown, cold retards the coagulatory process. But if blood be received into a close vessel, so as completely to fill it, and care at the same time be taken to exclude it from the contact of the atmosphere, the process will be considerably retarded. To account for this apparent anomaly, Scudamore not only attempted to prove that carbonic acid is extricated from the blood during coagulation, and that the time required for the concretory process in great measure depends on the quick or slow extrication of this gas, but that its evolution is “ an essential circumstance” in this process. {Op.cit., p. 103.) With respect to the fact on which this explanation turns, viz. the extrication of car- bonic acid gas, nothing can be more discordant than the results of experimentalists. One party, as Vogel, Scudamore, Brande, &c. {Ann. de Chimie, tom. xciii. Essay on the Blood, p. 28. Phil. Trans. 1818, p. 181.), affirming its existence in arterial and venous blood alike in considerable quantities. Another, as Clanny, Prout, and Stevens, (EUin. Med. and Surg. Journ., xxxii. 40. Bridgewater Treatise, p. 524. Observations on the Blood, p. 21.) that it exists in venous blood only ; and a third, as Davy, Thack- rah, and a number of others, (Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ., xxix. 254. Enquiry into the Blood, p. 63.) that it has no existence in either. But this question has lately been investigated and set at rest by Mr. Squire of Oxford-street; who, by a series of accurate and ingenious experiments, has succeeded in obtaining notable quantities of carbonic acid from venous blood, when, from the nature of the apparatus which was employed, it was impossible that any portion of the gas so obtained could have been derived from the atmosphere. It has been urged, indeed, that the alkalinity of the blood is incon- sistent with the admission of this fact; but Dr. Davy has shown that the admixture of a fourth part of an inch of carbonic acid to an ounce of fresh blood did not destroy its alkaline properties. {Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ., xxix. 254.) Admitting, therefore, the fact of the presence of carbonic acid in the blood, the ques- tion arises how far the escape of this gas affords a reasonable explanation of the cause of coagulation. Now it must be apparent that the coagulation and non-coagulation of the blood under circumstances not at all connected with the escape of carbonic acid is a sufficient answer to this question; for if coagulation can take place in the interior of the body, where no gas can escape, or be prevented from taking place when effhsed from the body by the mere circumstance of cold, it is evident that the extrication of carbonic acid is not necessary for this process. Still the experiments which have been referred to render it extremely probable that coagulation in vacuo is accelerated by the free escape of carbonic acid, and that atmospheric air, in addition to its action as a foreign body, promotes coagulation by promoting the escape of carbonic acid. Majendie has observed (Phys., 46me edit, Brux., p. 306.) that enormous quantities of atmospheric air may slowly be injected into the veins of an animal without producing any inconvenience, or without imparting to the blood any tendency to coagulation; but Hewson found that blood confined within a living vessel by two ligatures remained two thirds fluid for 3j hours, although it coagulated in fifteen minutes when air was blown into the vessel. Hence there would appear to be a difference in regard to the effects of atmospheric air, according as the blood happens to be at rest or in motion in the vessels. As to the effect of gases generally on coagulation, Sir H. Davy has informed us that he could discover no difference in the time required for coagulation when blood was exposed to nitrogen, oxygen, nitrous oxide, carhonic acid, hvdro-carbon, or atmospheric air. {Besearchcs on Nitrous Oxide, p. 380.) Nitrous oxide injected into the veins con-29 general principles of the blood. extent in which it has been taken, I think that rest has greater influ- ence in the change than any other circumstance whatever. But though rest seems greatly to dispose the blood to coagulation, it is the opera- tion of rest alone, without exposure, which we are to consider; as otherwise we shall be apt to confound it with the two foregoing causes, viz. cold, and the contact of aira. verts the blood to a chocolate brown colour, and destroys its coagulating power. Sul- phuretted hydrogen has the same effect, and renders it viscid and greenish. Carbonic oxide gives it a brownish tint. (Christison on Poisons, p. 691 el seg.) When the expe- riment of breathing pure oxygen is kept up for some time, or until the animal dies, the blood in the veins is found to present the same florid hue as that in the arteries, and to coagulate with remarkable rapidity. (Broughton in Land. Quart. Journ. of Sc. 1830.) For the effect of other gases on the blood the reader is referred to the able work of Dr. Christison above cited, to the Recherches Chim.-Phys. of Nysten, and to Thenard’s Sys. de Chim., iii. 513.] * [The question which will here be considered is rest or stagnation of the blood within the vessels or living textures of the body. In the preceding note I have adverted to the experiments of Hewson as to the effect of rest combined with the insufflation of air into the living vessels. Mr. Thaekrali (op. cit., p. 76.) repeated and varied these experiments in the following manner. By means of double ligatures he secured the jugular veins of two rabbits and two dogs, and examined the state of the blood at different intervals. In the veins of the two rabbits the blood was perfectly fluid after 45 minutes ; and in the veins of the two dogs it was perfectly fluid after 60 minutes in one case and 20 minutes in the other. Sir Astley Cooper performed similar experiments on dogs, and found the blood perfectly fluid after three hours; although by varying the form of the experiment and allowing the blood to flow into a portion of vessel unequivocally dead, the blood was found to be perfectly coagulated in 15 minutes. The blood in the heart and vessels of struck cattle is commonly fluid for half an hour or upwards after the apparent death of the animal; although if it be effused from the vessels during any part of this interval, it speedily coagulates. In the same manner extensive extravasations of blood into the cellular mem- brane or into the tunica vaginalis testis remain fluid for weeks or even months, notwith- standing that the same blood when let out readily coagulates. Thus also Mr. Hunter found the blood in the stomach and intestines of a leech still fluid ten weeks after it had been sucked. It must be evident, therefore, that some other principle is concerned in keeping the blood fluid in these cases besides motion, which principle must previously be ascertained before we can determine anything concerning the effects which are due to mere rest. This principle I believe to be the vitality of the vessels, which maintains the blood in a fluid state, and counteracts its coagulating tendency in exact proportion to the energy of the system at the time, or the tonic powers of the vessels. In proof of this I shall offer the following arguments in corroboration of those which have preceded. 1st, It is well known that struck cattle retain a residual vitality in their muscles for some hours after apparent death ; consequently it is not surprising, upon the hypothesis, that the blood should preserve a fluid state in virtue of a like residual vitality in the vessels. 2nd, If a leech die soon after it has fallen off, the blood in its body will be found coa- gulated. 3rd, In asphyxia, syncope, and other cases in which the system is depressed, the blood coagulates rapidly as contrasted with those cases in which the energies of the system are in full vigour, as in inflammatory fever. 5th, Upon the same principle, theGENERAL PRINCIPLES OF TIIR BLOOD. 30 Since, therefore, the blood may coagulate in the vessels either of a living or a dead body, and since it coagulates when extravasated into different parts of a living body, rest, like cold or air, might be supposed to be the sole cause of the coagulation of the blood: yet it is not rest considered simply, but rest under certain circumstances, which appears to possess such a power; for motion given to the blood, out of the ves- sels, will not of itself prevent its coagulation ; nor will it even in the vessels themselves, if all the purposes of motion are not answered by it. Motion seems to retard coagulation*a; yet we know for certain that • This is motion given to it in a vessel, without any empty space, and having beads put into it, which are shaken. second and third cups of blood in a common venesection coagulate more rapidly than the first; but if the blood be taken in the commencement of an inflammatory attack, while the system still labours under oppression, the first cup will coagulate more rapidly than the second. In the same manner, blood from the extreme parts of the body coagulates more rapidly than that which is near the source of circulation. Cth, Fontana found that although the poison of a viper had no effect on extravasated blood, it immediately promoted coagulation when it was injected into the veins. 7th, The blood coagulates in mortified limbs, and in the capillaries of inflamed parts. The following, however, are supposed to be proofs that rest, even in the living vessels, promotes the coagulation of the blood. Kellie remarked that blood which had been me- chanically impeded by the tourniquet speedily coagulated. The formation of coagula in the cavities of the heart and great veins during life is by no means of unfrequent occur- rence, and is generally found to be preceded by some obstruction in the circulation, accompanied with a depressed state of the vital powers. (Bright’s Medical Reports, ii. 63. Andral’s Precis de Pathologic, ii. 340.) Fibrinous vegetations about the valves of the heart in diseases of that organ, the formation of coagula in aneurismal sacs, the concretion of fibrinous clots in vessels which have been secured by ligature, and the coagulation of blood which has been effused into the interstices of the cellular membrane, are all evidences of the same nature. It must not be forgotten, however, that in all these cases the blood is placed under very different conditions to those which exist in a normal state, in as much as either the system or the parts which contain the blood are dis- eased, and consequently not possessed of a full power of life. Hence the great difficulty of assigning the real share which rest has in producing coagulation in these cases; for the effects which seem to arise from mere rest may in fact arise from the diminished vitality of the vessels. “ It is not rest considered simply, but rest under certain circumstances, which appears to possess such a power;” but when we reflect further that rest out of body has a contrary effect (see next note) we may, I think, “ conclude,” with Hunter, “ that rest does not of itself in the least assist the coagulation of the blood.” It is difficult to conceive that rest can have opposite effects on the blood in and out of the vessels.] a [When blood Is briskly stirred or shaken immediately on its effusion, it retains a homogeneous character, and apparently loses its coagulating properties: but this appear • ance is fallacious; for if blood thus treated be placed on a filter, the fibrin will become apparent. It has, in fuct, assumed the solid form; but being in a state of minute division, it is diffused through the turbid liquor, and thus escapes observation. (Davy in Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ., xxix. 244.) Indeed it is very probable that coagulation is really accelerated in such cases, just as it is by a more moderate agitation. To prove the latter point, thiec portions of blood being taken; the first and third were moderately31 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD.' blood will in time coagulate even in the vessels themselves, and under certain circumstances sooner, perhaps, than anywhere else : as, for in- stance, when there is a disposition to mortification. In this case we find the blood coagulated even in the larger vessels. I have seen a mor- tification come on the foot and leg, and when it had advanced only to a certain degree, the patient died. On examining the parts above the mortified part, I found the crural and iliac arteries filled completely with strong coagulated blood : we may thence infer that the tendency to mortification in the vessels produced this disposition in the blood. If the coagulation should be supposed to have arisen from the blood being stopped in the large vessels at the mortified part, let us reflect that this cannot account for it: the same thing ought then to happen in an amputation, or in any case where the larger vessels are tied up. In a priapism the blood does not coagulate, except it threatens mor- tification. The separation of the blood, either from itself, that is when divided into small portions, or separated from the living body, becomes one of the immediate causes of the coagulation of the lymph ; therefore the contact of blood with blood, or with living vessels, in some degree re- tards coagulation : this is the reason why blood which comes from the vessels slowly, or falls from some height, or runs some way on the sur- face of a dish, coagulates sooner than when the contrary circumstances happen; and upon this principle it is, that blood when shaken in a phial will coagulate the sooner, even if shaken in a vacuum. A deep mass of blood is also, from the same cause, longer in coagulating than a shal- low one. From the above observations it must appear evident that neither cold, nor air, nor rest, alone, has any influence on the coagulating power of the blood ; there must, therefore, be some other principle on which this process depends; and, as it retains its fluid state while circulating, and even for a long time when at rest in the living vessels, and coagulates when the vessels or the body dies, it might naturally be supposed that stirred with a stick for two minutes, while the second was allowed to rest. The two former concreted in 3§ to 4 minutes, the latter or second portion did not concrete till C minutes, and at the end of eight minutes the coagulum was much less firm than that of the other two. (Thackrah, p. 68.) Scudamore observed a difference of one minute. (Op. cit., p. 40.) Prater observed a difference, but it was not so considerable. (Op. cit., p. 18.) It should be noticed, however, that these experiments were made in open vessels, while those which were made in close vessels were much less decisive. Agita- tion promotes coagulation by bringing the interior particles of the mass into contact with the sides of the inert vessel, which will necessarily have the effect of rapidly dissipating its residual vitality. It is on the same principle, that a small portion of crassamentum dropped into fresh-drawn blood accelerates coagulation.]GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 32 it was the life of the body or vessels which kept it fluid; we know, how- ever, that life in the body or vessels does not hinder the blood from co- agulating under certain circumstances, but often rather excites coagu- lation. Nor does death, in the body or vessels, in all cases become a cause of coagulation; for we find that in many ■who die suddenly from a strong impression of the mind, the blood does not coagulate; there is, therefore, something more than the mere situation of the blood, sur- rounded ■with dead parts, that allows of coagulation ; and that must be a something in the blood itself. From these observations it must be evident that the fluid state of the blood is connected with the living vessels, which is its natural situation, and with motion; and that where there is a full power of life, the ves- sels are capable of keeping the blood in a fluid state. I believe, how- ever, very little motion is required to keep up this fluidity when the other is present. A total stagnation of the blood while the body is alive, as in a trance, or where the circulation has been stopped for se- veral hours, as in the case of persons apparently drowned®, does not make it coagulate; yet where there are no actions going on in a part, if the blood stagnates for a much shorter time than in a trance, it will be found coagulated, as in mortifications; but then this coagulation is to answer a good purpose, and arises from necessity*, which appears to act as a stimulus in disposing the blood to coagulate. As a proof that blood will not coagulate in living vessels, in a perfect and natural state, and ready to act when powers were restored to it, I found that the blood of a fish, which had the actions of life stopped for three days, and was supposed to be dead, did not coagulate in the ves- sels ; but, upon being exposed or extravasated, soon coagulated. The blood of a lamprey-eel, which had been dead to appearance some days, was found fluid in the vessels, because the animal was not really dead; there had, however, been no motion in the blood, as the heart * By action taking place from necessity, effects are meant which arise in consequence of some unusual or unnatural change going on in the parts, which becomes a stimulus to action. The stimuli, from this cause, may vary exceedingly among themselves; but as we are unable to investigate them, I have included them under this general term, stimulus of necessity. (See note, Vol. I. p. 236, and Index, art. Stimulus.) a [It is difficult to reconcile the results of physiological experiment with the accounts which have been given of recoveries from protracted asphyxia. It is extremely doubt- ful, under the most favourable circumstances, whether in drowning the heart ever con- tinues to pulsate for so long a period as five minutes after the cessation of respiration, or whether, having stopped its actions, it can ever be renewed. In trances also and the ordinary forms of syncope it is questionable whether the functions of respiration and circulation are ever wholly arrested. The statements which have been made on these subjects are certainly without foundation, and no better than extravagant fables.]33 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. had ceased acting; but upon its being exposed, and extravasatcd into water, it soon coagulated*: yet, under certain circumstances in life, it has been observed that the blood will in a small degree coagulate: this is in the state of torpor. It is asserted by some author, whom I now do not recollect, that the blood of a bat coagulates when in that state ; and Mr. Cornish, (surgeon, at Totnes, in Devonshire,) to whom I ap- plied for some bats in the torpid state, sent me them, but in the car- : riage they always died : however, he took opportunities of examining them, and he found that the blood was in a certain degree coagulated; but it soon recovered its fluidity on motion and heat8. From these remarks, I should conclude that rest does not of itself in i the least assist the coagulation of the blood, but that this effect arises 1 from the blood being separated from the living vessels, and being de- ; prived of motion ; and that it happens sooner or later, according to other ; circumstances. It might be supposed that these are rather negativo causes of coagulation than positive ones; but it is to be considered, that : in a living body the cessation of a natural action, the absence of an usual impression becomes a cause of action, of which innumerable in- i stances may be given. I have now considered the circumstances under which the blood co- agulates, and shown that none of them alone, nor all them combined, i induce the blood to coagulate. My opinion is, that it coagulates from an impression; that is, its fluidity under such circumstances being im- proper, or no longer necessary, it coagulates to answer now the neces- sary purpose of solidity. This power seems to be influenced in a way in some degree similar to muscular action, though probably not entirely • There are some circumstances which hinder the coagulation of blood in living bodies, although extravasated. Two leeches had been applied, and had sucked till full. These were preserved for ten weeks, and then contained considerable quantity of blood, which appeared like that recently drawn from a vein, and coagulated when ex- posed. I have known, in tapping a hydrocele, that a small vessel has been wounded, and the blood, as it extravasated, got into the sac, and when tapped sixty-five days after, the blood has come out tliickish; but when extracted it coagulated, and separated into different parts *. * [I am informed by Dr. Marshall Hall, that in his experiments on hybernatlng animals, he found the blood quite as fluid as under ordinary circumstances. This is not different from what might have been expected; for notwithstanding that the respiration is almost wholly, if not entirely, suspended during the state of hybernation, the heart still continues to beat, and to circulate black blood, at the rate of twenty-eight strokes | in a minute. (Hall in Phil. Trans. 1834.)] k [A sanguineous tumour of the leg, which had existed upwards of eight months, and was supposed to be a chronic abscess, was punctured by Mr. Caesar Hawkins, at St George’s Hospital, in the course of the last year (1834), and about five ounces of fluid ! blood discharged, which immediately coagulated.] VO’ T,r. „34 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. of that kind; for I have reason to believe that blood has the power of action within itself, according to the stimulus of necessity, which ne- cessity arises out of its situation. I shall now consider the simple act of coagulation, abstracted from causes. Coagulation I conceive to be an operation of life; and I imagine it to proceed exactly upon the same principle as the union by the first inten- tion ; it is particle uniting with particle, by the attraction of cohesion, which, in the blood, forms a solid; and it is this coagulum, uniting with the surrounding parts, which forms the union by the first intention; for union by the first intention is no more than the living parts when separated, whether naturally or by art, forming a reciprocal attraction of cohesion with the intermediate coagulum, which immediately admits of mutual intercourse, and, as it were, one interest. To produce coagulation of the blood, however, something more is re- quired than merely the reverse of the causes above mentioned, as having the power to keep it fluid; for the blood becomes in many cases in- stantaneously incapable of coagulation, either in or out of the vessels, even when nothing has been added or taken away, and must be there- fore under the influence of some other cause. This, I believe, must be sought in some property inherent in the blood itself: besides, some na- tural operations destroy this principle in the blood when extravasated. In many modes of destroying life the blood is deprived of its power of coagulation, as happens in sudden death produced by many kinds of fits, by anger, electricity, or lightning®; or by a blow on the stomach, &c. In these cases we find the blood, after death, not only in as fluid a state as in the living vessels, but it does not even coagulate when taken out of them. As in the bodies of such persons no action of life takes place, the muscles do not contract. There are partial influences likewise which destroy the power of coagulation, as a blow on a part producing a considerable extravasation. This forms an ecchymosis, in which we shall often find the blood not in the least coagulated. In healthy menstruation the blood which is discharged does not coagulate ; n [Although this statement has been impugned by Sir C. Scudamore (op. tit., p. 54.), yet general testimony has evinced the accuracy of Mr. Hunter's observation. Scudamore found that the blood coagulated as usual in animals which had been killed by the dis- charge of an electric battery. It is worthy of remark, that electricity and galvanism rather accelerate coagulation out of the body, and also occasion a sensible elevation of temperature. Mayo has observed, that when any accidental extravasation happens in a person that has been hanged, the blood speedily coagulates (Physiology, 3rd edit p. 26); but Thackrah has carried the observation still further, and affirmed that such is generally the case in all instances of violent death. (Op. cii., p. 168.)]35 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. in the irregular or unhealthy it does. The healthy menses, therefore, show a peculiar action of the constitution; and it is most probably in this action that their salubrious purposes consist; for if twice the usual quantity is evacuated, with the power of coagulation, even from the same vessels, the same benefit is not produced, much less when taken away from another part by art®. Many substances, when mixed with the blood, prevent coagulation; bile has this effect out of the body; but we cannot suppose that in a living body it can be taken into the blood in such quantity as to produce this effect; for we find in a very severe jaundice that the blood is still capable of coagulating strongly. That probably every' inanimate fluid in nature, which is capable of being rendered solid, produces heat during that change, and in the con- trary change cold, is commonly known. It is on this principle that Dr. Black has established his very ingenious theory of latent heat. Thus, in the freezing of water heat is produced. To see how far the coagulation of the blood was similar in this re- spect to the same change in other substances, I first coagulated the white of an egg, by applying to it rectified spirits of wine : the heat of both was the same before their union ; but I found, upon uniting them, that the white of the egg was immediately coagulated, and that the heat of the mixture was increased four, sometimes five degrees, according as it coagulated slow'ly or quicklyb. As the blood in the animals upon which we most commonly make our experiments is warm, it becomes a difficult matter to ascertain whether it produces heat upon coagulation. In holding the ball of the thermometer in the stream of blood coming from the arm, I found the heat raised to 92° : I then took a cup of human blood, allowed it to co- agulate, and put it up to the brim in water warmed to 92°, till the whole mass was heated to this point. I bled afterwards another person to the same quantity, in a similar cup, which was put into the same water. Having two well-regulated thermometers, one in each cup of blood, I observed which cooled first, for I did not expect so much heat to be produced in the second as to make it warmer, but conceived, if any heat * [The healthy menstrual discharge, which is probably a true secretion, does not co- agulate, because it contains no globules or fibrin. Brande found that “it had the pro- perties of a very concentrated solution of the colouring matter of the blood in a diluted serum.” {Phil. Trans. 1812, p. 113.) Unhealthy menstruation is attended with actual hemorrhage.] b [The disengagement of caloric in this case is to be ascribed to the union of the water contained in the albumen with the spirits of wine, and the consequent conden- sation which takes place. Albumen coagulated by dilute nitric acid does not evolve any heat.]GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 3G was formed, it would retard the cooling of the fresh blood; but it rather cooled faster, which I imputed to the coagulated blood parting with its heat slower than the fluid blood. ITtese experiments I have repeated several times, with nearly the same effect. I then conceived the expe- riment would be more conclusive if I could get blood in a fluid state which was naturally of the heat of the atmosphere, for which purpose I took the blood of turtles. A healthy turtle was kept in a room all night, the floor of which was about 64° and the atmosphere 65°. In the morning the heat was nearly the same. The thermometer was introduced into the anus, and the heat of that part was 64°. The animal being suspended by the hind legs, the head was cut off at once, and the blood caught in a bason ; the blood while flowing was 65°, and when collected was G6°, but fell to 65° while coagulating, which it did very slowly : it remained at 65°, and when coagulated was still 65°. These experiments had been made several times, but not with that nice accuracy which was obtained by causing all the heats to correspond exactly; yet, as they were all known and marked down, if any heat had been produced upon coagulation its exact quantity would have been ascertained in each; and, indeed, in some it seemed to cool, but in none it became warmer. From these experiments, I should say that in the coagulation of the blood no heat is formed8. Coagulated blood is an inorganized animal substance. When the blood is thinly spread before coagulation, or oozes out on surfaces, (in which act it immediately coagulates,) and coagulates in that form, it may then be said to form an inorganized membrane, of which there are many; and organization is seemingly so simple in many (which we * [The change in the capacity of bodies for heat depends on the change of their densities; but no change takes place in the sum of the densities of the constituents of the blood during, or as the effect of, coagulation, for what the fibrin gains in specific weight is exactly balanced by what is lost by the serum; and were this otherwise, we should still not expect any appreciable degree of heat to be evolved, when we reflect on the ex- tremely small proportion which the fibrin bears to the whole mass of the blood, and that it is this principle alone which undergoes coagulation. The opinion in the text has, nevertheless, been controverted by several experimentalists. Fourcroy, in one instance, observed the heat to rise during coagulation from 20° to 25° Cent, or nearly 11° Fahr. (Ann. de Chimie, vii. 147.) Dr. Gordon also, in some experiments, estimated the rise to be as much as from 6° to 12°. (Ann. of Phil., iv. 139.) And Dr. Scudamore was led to a similar conclusion, viz. “ that a slight evolution of heat takes place during the coagu- lation of the blood." (Op. cit., p. 75.) I am of opinion, however, that the experiments of Davy on the blood of sharks and turtles, and those of Thackrah on warm-blooded animals, are more to be depended on, and these fully confirm the accuracy of Mr. Hun- ter’s observations. (Thackrah, p. 60.) Raspail has even gone into the opposite opinion, and imagined that the temperature of the blood is actually reduced by the act of coagula- tion. (Syst. Chim. Org., p. 361.)]37 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. know to be constituent parts of the body), that these coagula, more especially the thin ones, cannot easily by their appearances be distin- guished from them. The coagulating lymph of the blood being common probably to till animals, while the red particles are not, we must suppose it from this alone to be the most essential part; and as we find it capable of under- going, in certain circumstances, spontaneous changes, which are neces- sary to the growth, continuance, and preservation of the animal, while to the other parts we cannot assign any such uses, we have still more rea- son to suppose it the most essential part of the blood in every animal®. * [There seems good reason for this opinion, and yet Fourcroy was unable to detect any fibrin in the blood of the foetus; an observation which has since been repeated by different experimentalists, and confirmed by the statement of Bichat, that foetal blood does not coagulate. Dr. Grant has stated that the proportion of fibrin in the blood of the less perfect animals is considerably smaller than that which exists in the higher classes. Davy, Thackrah, and Scudamore found that the proportion of fibrin was relatively increased during inflammation. Scudamore even found that it varied during the same venesection. “ In one instance,” he says, “ I found the proportion in the first cup for 1000 grains of clot twelve grains, and in the last cup not quite six grains: the highest proportion that I have found in healthy blood has been, for 1000 grains of clot, 4'43 of fibrin. It is in the inflammation of the fibrous textures of the body that the greatest quantity of fibrin is found in the blood j for example, in inflammation of the heart, when the blood is drawn we meet with the strongest example of the buffy coat; and next, probably, in pleurisy and acute rheumatism.” (Op. cit., p. 119.) Mr. Thackrah found that this variation in the relative proportions of the constituents of the blood during the same venesection was not confined to the fibrin, but was equally applicable to the se- rum and haematosine. (Op. cit., pp. 146, 209.) It is remarkable, however, that the in- crease of fibrin, which is observable both in inflammation and in breeding animals, is uniformly found to take place at the expense of the albumen of the serum, from which it may be inferred that the former is formed out of the latter, or is in fact in a higher and more perfect state of animalization, a view of the case which is still further corrobo- rated from the fact of its containing more nitrogen. Ihe generality of modern chemists have been disposed to regard the fibrin, albumen, and haunatosine of the blood as modifications of the same animal principle. In its co- agulated state, the chemical relations of albumen are undoubtedly closely allied to those of fibrin, so as with difficulty to be distinguished from them: still there are certain well-marked differences which distinguish these substances; as, for instance, albumen contains less nitrogen than fibrin; it is soluble in water at common tempera- tures; it undergoes coagulation at a temperature of 160°, and it is also coagulated by all the mineral acids. Whether these points of dissimilarity arc sufficient to characterize it as a distinct and separate organic principle, I shall not pretend to decide. I w ill only observe, that in deciding this question it would be right to reflect that the doctrine of definite proportionals does not obtain, in regard to organic principles, in the same manner or to the same extent as it does with respect to inorganic compounds, so that the lormer class of bodies are far less distinctly characterized in general than the latter, and pass, by a series of easy transitions, from one into the other, so as often to be con- vertible. It signifies, however, very little in fact whether we regard the fibrin, albumen,GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 38 Besides a disposition for coagulation under certain circumstances, as before described, the blood has also a disposition for the separation of the red globules, and probably of all its parts ; for I think I have reason to believe that a disposition for coagulation, and a disposition for a separation of the red part, are not the same thing, but arise from two different principles. Indeed, a disposition to coagulation would coun- teract the effect, and hinder the separation of the red particles from taking place. Thus we see that rest, or slow motion of the blood in the vessels, gives a disposition towards the separation of the red part, as well as when it is extravasated; since the blood in the Veins of an animal acquires a disposition to separate its red parts more than in the arteries, especially if it be retarded in the veins ; the nearer, therefore, to the heart in the veins the greater will the disposition for separation be ; though it does not seem to retard coagulation. This is always ob- servable in bleeding; for if we tie up an arm, and do not bleed imme- diately, the first blood that flows from the orifice, or that which has stagnated for some time in the veins, will soonest separate into its three constituent parts : this circumstance exposes more of the coagulating lymph at the top, wrhich is supposed by the ignorant to indicate more inflammation, while the next quantity taken suspends its red parts in the lymph, and gives the idea that the first small quantity had been of such sendee at the time of its flowing as to have altered for the better the whole mass of blood. Rest, therefore, may be regarded as one of the immediate causes of the separation11. and heeraatosine as distinct and separate principles or merely as modifications of the same principle. There can be little doubt that the offices which they fulfil in the ceconomy are perfectly distinct, and therefore it is probable that the substances themselves are so. In order to explain the variations above mentioned in the constitution of the blood during one and the same venesection, we have only to remember the extraordinary rapidity of the circulatory, secretory and absorbent functions. A solution of prussiate ot potash introduced into the jugular vein of a horse was detected by the appropriate test in the opposite jugular vein in from twenty to thirty seconds, and in the serous cavities of the pericardium and pleura in from two to six minutes; and if we may be allowed to judge from the effects of poisons, or from the rapid manner in which enormous ascitic collections are sometimes suddenly dispersed, the rapidity of the action of the absorb- ents would appear to exceed even that of the secretories. (Hering in Med. Gazette, xiv. 745.) From these sources it is not difficult to account for the change in quality which the blood undergoes during venesection, which ordinarily occupies from two to five minutes. The first portions of blood which pass are abstracted under natural cir- cumstances ; but the new impression which is thus produced on the constitution by the first loss of blood, may easily affect the residual mass; 1st, through the medium of the absorbents; 2nd, through the secretory vessels, which rapidly take up the fluid parts of the body, and convey them into the circulation.] a [Buffi/ Blood.—The reason why more huff appears in the first than in the second quantity of blood (a fact which is by no means universal,) will be intelligible from whatGENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 39 §.3. Of the Serum. The serum is the second part of which the whole mass of blood ap- pears to be composed, or is one of those substances into which the has been said in the preceding note respecting the superabundance of fibrin in in- flammatory blood, as well as from the circumstance that the first portions of blood are generally slowest in coagulating, by which a greater time is allowed for the red globules to subside. It is not difficult, however, to prove that an increased dispo- sition to separate must also exist in the red globules, and aid in producing the buffy orust. Take, for example, blood from a patient labouring under acute rheumatism, and set it aside; in less than thirty seconds the surface will be covered with a bluish trans- parent lymph, although no traces of coagulation will be apparent for several minutes afterwards. Thus Hewson found that of two portions of the same blood, one afforded a buffy crust, and the other none, although the latter remained fluid full ten minutes after the buffy coat had begun to be formed on the former (Exp. Enq., p. 90). I think, therefore, it must be apparent that the buffy coat of blood undoubtedly depends on these three circumstances acting conjointly, viz. the increased quantity of fibrin, the slowness of the coagulation, and the increased tendency to separation. Dr. Davy (Edinb. Med. Surg. Journ., xxix.) and Dr. Stoker (Pathol. Observ., p. 37.) have irrefragably proved that mere slowness of coagulation is not alone a sufficient cause to account for this phenomenon. The latter has furnished twenty-seven experiments, in fifteen of which buff was formed, and in the other twelve it was not. In the former coagulation was never delayed beyond fourteen minutes, and in all but three it took place in less than five minutes. Out of the latter there were four instances in which coagulation was delayed eight, and three in which it did not take place in less than from twenty to forty minutes; the real cause, therefore, of the buffiness in the former in- stances was certainly not the slowness of coagulation: yet slowness of coagulation has a very marked effect in increasing the quantity of buff; for if blood be drawn from a small orifice into a shallow vessel, the quantity of buff will be infinitely less than if it is drawn from a large orifice into a deep vessel; the difference in these cases depending in great measure on the more rapid manner in which the blood coagulates in one case than it does in the other. For the same reason Dr. Babington (Med.-Chir. Tr., xvi. 298.) found that when blood was drawn into two vessels, one empty and the other half- filled with olive oil, the buffy crust which formed under the oil was twice or thrice as thick as that which formed in the empty jar. Nay, the same author has even gone so far as to affirm that healthy blood placed under these conditions will sometimes exhibit a buffy surface. I may also advert to one other circumstance, which is, that the quantity of buff will be greatly influenced by the shape of the vessel into which the blood is received, for it must be evident that the space left by the gravitation of the red particles will bear a proportion to the whole perpendicular depth of the blood, and consequently be much greater in one case than in another, although the same blood be employed. This cir- cumstance is frequently overlooked in judging of the degree of inflammation from the appearance of the blood previously abstracted. lo account for the buffy coat, it has been imagined that the fibrin of the blood be- comes specifically lighter, or the red globules specifically heavier than usual; but nothing has been offered in the shape of proof for either of these statements. Hey attributed the sizy crust to a more intimate admixture of the constituent parts of the blood; and40 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. blood spontaneously separates itself. So far it appears as a simple fluid, in which light I shall first consider it; though we shall find Hewson to the greater tenuity of this fluid j but both of these opinions are directly con- tradicted by experience, for nothing can be more clear than that there exists in the blood a greater disposition to separate into its component parts in inflammation than in a healthy state, while nothing has been more clearly proved than that the specific gra- vity of the whole blood is increased under the same circumstances, at the same time that the fibrin and albumen are separately and collectively in greater relative proportions than in a state of health. ( Thackrah, pp. 206-212.) Rapidity of circulation is another cause which has been adduced in explanation of this phenomenon ; but rapidity of cir- culation does not necessarily precede a sizy state of the blood, nor would it, if it did, throw any light on the proximate cause of this appearance. The question now naturally occurs, Does the buffy crust consist of the original fibrin of the blood, or of the fibrin of the blood modified by disease, or of altogether a new substance? I think there can be no doubt that it consists of the fibrin of the blood de- prived of the red globules, that is, of a net-work of fibrin containing a more or less con- siderable portion of serum. It is difficult to imagine that this substance has not under- gone some modification from disease; for although the fibrin thus obtained does not chemically differ from ordinary fibrin, yet it is firmer, denser, more contractile, and more like an ordinary membrane than the fibrin of healthy blood ; physiologically speaking, therefore, it has undergone some modification. It would also appear from the researches of Trail, Gendrin, and Dowler, that the serum which is interposed in its meshes is more charged with albumen than the rest of the serum, although this state- ment has been denied by Thackrah. The ratio of solid and liquid elements in the buffy crust varies considerably in different cases, but in general there is more fibrin and less serum than in the ordinary crassamentnm of healthy blood. The cases in which the huffy coat is most strikingly exhibited are those of rheumatic inflammation, and inflam- mation of serous and fibrous structures. The quantity of buff present may generally be considered as an index to the strength of the constitution and the acuteness of the disease conjointly ; but this is not universally the case, for the blood is very often found to be buffed in scurvy and diabetes as well as in the latter stages of phthisis and acute diseases, so that this circumstance taken singly is an extremely unsafe guide to act on. On the other hand, it is found deficient in children, and has rarely been observed to form in arterial blood, or blood abstracted by cupping. It is also very often found to be wanting in plethoric people ; in cases of smallpox previous to the appearance of the eruption; in violent and extensive inflammation, involving several textures of the body at the same time, and running into rapid suppuration; in diffuse inflammation of the cellular membrane ; in inflammation of mucous membranes ; in the first attack of the endemic and common remittent fevers of hot climates; “Imo in morbis maxime in- flammatoriis, in nullo sanguine, quotiescunque misso, aliquoties crusta ulla est.” (De Htten, Hat. Med., iii. c. 2.) Under these circumstances it must be apparent that the mere absence or presence of buff is no sure indication in practice, but must be judged of, like other symptoms, from concurrent circumstances. Mr. Vines (Lancet, xi. 294.) has stated a very extraordinary fact relating to this subject. Asses, he says, that feed on hay and live in the open air at a temperature of 45°-55° exhibit a buffy crust, which disappears as soon as the temperature is raised to 60° or depressed to 35°. Also that if an animal in health, his blood being buffy, be made to undergo moderate exercise, it will become wholly red, and will continue so for some hours afterwards. But when the circulation becomes tranquil, it will again put on the bulfy appearance. If the exertion, however, be continued to an immoderate degree, the blood becomes again lmtfy. The fatt of excessive exercise rendering the blood buffv,GENERAL PRINCIPLES QF THE BLOOD. 41 hereafter that it is composed of two substances, which in many of our experiments separate. Serum, I believe, is common to the although it has been disputed by some, is now generally admitted. Horses, after a full gallop, have often been observed to have huffy blood. Dr. Todd and Dr. Stoker of Dublin conceive that the colour and figure of the buff may point out the seat of the inflammation; but this is very questionable: others, again, have affirmed that they could distinguish buffy blood from the mere colour of the stream as it flowed from the vein. I intimated in the preceding note that the origin of the buffy crust is probably to be sought for in the conversion of the albumen into fibrin. The final intention of this provision obviously is, to answer the increased demand which is made for this sub- stance in inflammation, as without some additional supply it is probable that the work of reparation could not go on in cases of extensive injury, nor the adhesions consequent on inflammation be duly formed. Thus in diffuse cellular inflammation, no adhesions are formed, and no buff is observed on the blood, but the reverse of these circumstances is observable when the seat of the inflammation is in fibrous or serous structures. The Coagulation of the Blood hits generally been referred to a physiological or a chemical cause. The first of these opinions was maintained by Hunter, the latter is most prevalent in the present day. In reference to the author’s ideas on this subject, it will be necessary to premise a distinction between his statements as to the cause of fluidity and the cause of coagulation of the blood. The former I think are borne out by every fact (note, p. 29.), the latter are open to considerable differences of opinion. Having considered the effects of exterior causes on coagulation, viz. heat, cold, motion, and rest, and “shown that none of these alone, nor all of them combined, induce the blood to coagulate,” he comes to the conclusion “ that it coagulates from an impression; —that the blood has the power of action within itself;—that to produce coagulation something more is required than merely the reverse of the causes above mentioned to keep it fluid, for the blood becomes in many cases instantaneously incapable of coagu- lation, either in or out of the vessels, even when nothing has been added or taken away. —There is therefore something more than the mere situation of the blood surrounded with dead parts that allows of coagulation ; and that must be a something in the blood itself.—Coagulation I conceive to be an operation of life.” Now as these opinions are greatly dependent on another, namely, the vitality of the blood, which opinion has not yet been considered, it might seem expedient that I should in the first place examine the truth of this datum. I believe, however, that this will not be necessary, but that it will be extremely possible to assign a reasonable cause of coagulation without adverting to this subject. In regard to the cause of the blood’s fluidity, Mr. Hunter is perfectly clear. “ It must be evident,” he says, “ that the fluid state of the blood is connected with the living vessels, which is its natural situation, and with motion; and that where there is a full power of life, the vessels are capable of keeping the blood in a fluid state,” &c. &c. Now if the fluidity of the blood depends, under ordinary circumstances, on motion and contact with the living vessels, (which opinion can scarcely I think be doubted,) then the conditions under which this fluid is placed when removed from the living vessels and set at rest are essentially changed, and the difficulty of accounting for the act of coagulation on simply chemical principles is eutirely removed. For let it be assumed, in the first place, that the whole mass of blood consists of liquor sanguinis and red globules (notes, pp. 22, 24.) ; secondly, that the liquor sanguinis is42 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. blood of all animals; but there is more of it, I think, in those animals which have red blood : perhaps it may bear some proportion really and bond fide a compound body, and no mere mixture of elements (id.) ; thirdly, that the existence and integrity of this compound depends on, or is preserved by, the living vessels or other containing parts (note, p. 29.); and fourthly, that the natural or inherent condition of fibrin is that of a solid (and as yet it has never been known to exist as an uncombined fluid); admit, I say, these data and the difficulty of accounting for the coagulation of the blood at once disappears, for the cause being removed which kept the elements of the liquor sanguinis in a state of combination, the effect also ceases; in other words, the conditions ceasing under which this compound can alone exist, the principles of which it is constituted necessarily revert to those states which are most natural to them, which state, as regards the fibrin, is that of a solid. This opinion was first maintained by Schultz (Joum. des Prog, det Sc. Med., vi. 85.), and has since found an able supporter in Dr. Babington, who has given additional rea- sons for believing in its truth. It is not, as might at first appear, opposed to Mr. Hun- ter's peculiar doctrines concerning the vitality of the blood, but presupposes and con- firms them; for without admitting the vitality of the blood, it would be impossible to explain many circumstances connected with coagulation, and particularly why the blood does notimmediately solidify on extravasation whenever it is removed from the influence of those causes which kept it fluid. But this does not happen, and therefore it is plain that coagulation, instead of being an act of life (as Hunter supposed), is in fact an act which can only take place on the cessation of life, or, in the language of our author, an act of death. A residuum of vitality certainly adheres to the blood for some con- siderable time after it is extravasated from the body, and it is not until this is partially or wholly dissipated that coagulation takes place; hence, as I have observed before, the disposition to coagulation is always inversely as the powers of the animal, and is promoted by all those circumstances which are calculated to exhaust or carry off the living principle. But this explanation does not account for every circumstance, nor remove the specific objections which the author himself has urged against all such hypotheses. It does not, for example, account for the coagulation of the blood in the vessels of mortifying limbs, or for the incoagulability of this fluid in cases of sudden death. With regard to the first of these objections, I think we may be allowed to suppose that the effects of sympathy extend to a considerable distance beyond the mortified parts, so that these parts, and particularly the great vascular trunks, are weakened and deprived of those full powers of life which are necessary to preserve the blood in a fluid state. Many analogous cases might be adduced to show that any one part of a system of organs being injured, the effect is participated in by the whole; and I think we must refer to this principle, viz. to the sympathy which exists between the heart and its various prolongations, the great disposition which is manifested by the blood to coagulate during the existence of syncope. With respect to the second objection which has been mentioned, I confess my inability to propose any hypothesis capable of explaining the variety of circum- stances under which the blood remains fluid after death. That it depends, ns Hunter supposed, on the sudden and entire abstraction of life, or as Mayo has imagined, on a greater residual vitality in the solids of the body, are explanations diametrically opposed; and totally irreconcileable, as it appears tome, with the diversity of circumstances under which this phenomenon is exhibited. The blood has been found uncoagulated in every variety of common and epidemic fever, and in almost every variety of local phlegmasia,GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 43 to the quantity of red particles in the blood, and may be of use to dilute ita. The serum is lighter than the other parts of the blood, and therefore swims above them when separated. It is commonly separated from the coagulating lymph when that fluid coagulates, and is therefore almost in hanging, drowning, hydrophobia, coup-de-soleil, lightning, blows on the stomach, overwhelming affections of the mind, intoxication, apoplexy, severe and mortal injuries of vital parts, and in most cases of poisoning; and, as opposed to these, in almost every respect in overdriven animals, typhoid and low fevers, cholera, scurvy, death from putrid food or putrid inoculations, &c. The former for the most part are examples of the sudden extinction of life attended with all the signs of previous health, the latter of the gradual decay of life attended with all the evidences of previous debility. There requires, therefore, evidently some more general principle than has yet been discovered to explain these diversities. The chemical and physiological explanations are in this respect both on a par; they both equally fail, as theories, in explaining all the circum- stances of the case. Mr. Hunter compared the coagulation of blood to union by the first intention, and in a larger sense to the act of nutrition and organical formations; but this opinion, as I shall have occasion hereafter to show, does not seem to be supported by any sufficient data. At present I shall content myself with remarking one striking difference, which is, that organized structures when once formed continue to live and to manifest an in- terior activity, whereas the blood when once coagulated undergoes the common changes of dead matter. The act of coagulation has also been compared to muscular contractility; but it differs from this in two essential respects: first, in not being followed by any relaxation ; and secondly, in not being stimulated to action by any of those agents which are apt to excite muscular contraction. It is further remarkable that prussic acid and extract of bella- donna, one of which is so fatal to life, aud the other so destructive of muscular action, do not in the least prevent a strong contraction of the coagulum ; but according to my judgment, no other argument is required to subvert the physiological hypothesis, than the fact that blood which has been kept fluid for an indefinite period of time by common salt, may yet be made to coagulate by the addition of water. It is remarkable that blood may be kept fluid and of a bright arterial colour for many months, or even years, by this means, and yet retain its coagulating property.] a [I shall take the liberty of extending the inquiry which is suggested in the text, to the following points : First, As to the relative proportion of nutritive to non-nutritive matters in the blood under different circumstances of age, sex, constitution, &c.; Secondly, As to the relative proportion which the red globules bcaT to the scrum; Thirdly, As to the variations which may occur in the quantity of albumen in common serum; and Fourthly, As to the relative quantity of salts. The data on which my observations on these points will be founded may be seen at large in M. Le Canu’s second memoir on the blood, contained in the Journal dc Phar- macie for October 1831. I. As to the relative proportion of nutritive to non-nutritive matters in the blood under different circumstances of age, sex, constitution, §c. 1000 parts of healthy blood being taken, the proportion of water and salts to the nutritive matters (fibrin, globules, and albumen) varied—44 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF TIIE BLOOD. always found when the blood is taken out of the blood-vessels, and kept together in a considerable mass. When the lymph coagulates strongly. 1st, In individuals of dif- ferent ages and sexes. 2nd, In individuals of the same sex but of dif- ferent ages. Max Water. 853-135 778-625 796-846 Salts. 9-760 11-541 10-316 Nutr.matt 137-105 209-834 192-838 Min Average of twenty analyses. v r Max. JEt. 22 853-135 9-760 137-105 | J Min. JEt. 58 790-394 804-371 11-220 198-386 185-685 £ |_ Average of ten analyses 9-944 ^ f Max. ML 50 805-263 12-120 182-017 4 Min. Mi. 26 778-625 11-541 209-834 (_ Average of ten analyses 789-320 10-689 199-991 It appears, therefore, from the above table, that a variation of 72-729 in 1000, or nearly 7£ per cent, in the nutritive parts of the blood is consistent with a state of health, and that the blood of males is richerin this respect by 14-306 in 1000, or nearly 1J per cent, than females. Age (within the period of twenty to sixty years) does not seem to make much difference. The proportion of nutritive matters in the sanguine is about 1 per cent, more in the female, and 1§ per cent., more in the male, than in those who are lymphatic. Venesection and considerable haemorrhages have a marked effect in impoverishing the blood of its nutritive parts. Thus the blood of a patient who had been subject to copious uterine haemorrhages (pertes uterines) yielded only 137-120 parts, or nearly 5 per cent, less than the usual average, while the blood of another patient was impoverished as much as 4 per cent, after a single venesection. These facts accord with experience, and afford a rational account of the advantages of depletion in cases of over- excitement. The principal change in the blood in cholera consists in the great relative increase of the solid parts and deficiency in the carbonated alkalies, the fibrin, albu- men, and colouring matter not undergoing any changes which can be detected by chemical analysis. Thus the average of the following analyses shows an extraordinary increase of the solid contents in choleric blood: f 66-01 f 34 Water....■< 74-9 > solid contents < 25 L 481 J L 52 Average 63-0 -j- 37 = 100. Amounting to little less than double the ordinary quantity. From other observations it would appear that acute diseases generally tend to increase, and chronic ones to di- minish, the nutritive parts of the blood. Thackrah has related a case of pleurisy in which the proportion of serum to crassamentum was as 10- to 54'9 (op.cit., p. 197.); and according to Langrish the relative quantities of serum to crassamentum in acute fevers, tertians, and quartans, were respectively as 10 to 33, 10 to 25, and 10 to 16. Of sixteen cases of acute disease taken indiscriminately from ordinary practice, only one fell below the ordinary standard, while the average of solid contents for 12 out of the 16 was 207"9 in 1000, the healthy standard being estimated at 160. ( Thackrah, p. 208.) The blood is proportionally more rich in those who have long fasted than in those who have recently eaten; in wild and predatory animals, in persons who subsist on rich animal diet, and in females during the period of utcro-gcstation. Sickness, syncopc( salivation, insufficient nutriment, and, above all, hemorrhage, impoverish the blood. The blood of a calf which was killed 16 hours after a copious venesection and subsequent45 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. we commonly find more serum, because it is then squeezed out more forcibly than when the coagulation is formed loosely ; it is not, however, refusal of food, afforded only 3'4 crass, to 10 serum, instead of the usual proportion of 8 to 10. II. As to the relative proportion which the globules {inclusive of fibrin) bear to the serum. 1st, In individuals of dif-J j ferent ages and sexes, Average of twenty analyses 2nd, In individuals of the same sex but of dif- ferent ages. Female. Male. ("Max. JEt. 53 < Min. JEt. 22 |_ Average of ten analyses . C Max. JEt. 40 4 Min. JEt. 34 L Average of ten anlayses. Red globules Scrum. 148-450 851-550 68-349 931-651 124-227 875-773 129-999 870-010 68-349 931-651 115-963 884-037 148-458 851-550 115-850 884-150 132-491 867-509 It appears, therefore, that the superior richness of the blood of men depends prin- cipally upon the superabundance of the red globules, in the proportion 16'528, or upwards Of 1§ per cent. The proportions of this element of the blood are not influenced so much by age (within the limits of twenty to sixty years) as by the temperament of the indi- vidual. In the sanguine it exceeds by nearly 2 per cent in the male, and 1 per cent in the female, the proportion in the leucophlegmatic, a conclusion which strikingly cor- roborates the opinion of Hunter that the red globules are in some manner connected with the strength or vital energies of the individual, while it points out also the importance which this element probably has on the full development of animal heat. Dr. Christison found that the changes which were wrought on the air by respiration were always in proportion to the quantity of red globules present in the blood; while MM. Prevost and Dumas ascertained the fact that birds (which are the most active of all animals, and possess the highest range of animal temperature,) have the greatest num- ber of red globules, next to them carnivorous quadrupeds, and least of all cold-blooded animals. The constitution does not easily repair considerable losses of the red globules. A single venesection reduced their amount nearly one third, and a severe uterine haemorrhage upwards of 34 per cent. In a case of purpura haemorrhagica, Dr.Whiting found that the red particles did not exceed 40 in 1000 parts of blood, although the common proportion was estimated at not less than 100 to 130. {De Sang. /Egrorum.) Mr. Andrews found that the red globules were diminished upwards of 50 per cent, in calves after the fourth venesection to syncope. (Dubl. Journ., No. 19.) Their quantity is also much diminished by improper or insufficient nutriment, obesity, chronic diseases, and the absence of solar light. III. As to the variations which may occur in the quantity of albumen in common serum.—The serum essentially consists of water and albumen, the proportions of which preserve a remarkable uniformity both in health and disease. The difference in the quantity of albumen seldom exceeds 2 per cent even after considerable losses of blood. It is sometimes deficient in milky serum, and in the serum of patients suffering from dropsy, attended with albuminous urine. In the former cases the albumen is apparently converted into an oleaginous principle, and in the latter into fibrin. The specific gravity of the serum in such cases is generally exceedingly low. Dr. Babington found that milky serum varied from 1019 to 1024, aud that in a case of albuminous urine it did not ex-GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 46 necessary for the lymph to coagulate, in order to separate the serum, for we find that it separates in disease, as in the dropsy. It is separated ceed 1020 at 60°, nor the solid contents amount to more than 1 *01 per cent., the usual averages being 1029-5 spec. grav. and 10-00 per cent, solid contents. (Mcd.-Chir. Trans., xvi. 57,315.) M. Denis is of opinion that albumen predominates in the young and aged, and suggests that it may probably depend on a transference of this substance from the crassamentum to the serum, the former being most abundant in adult life. (Sur le Sang, pp. 288,290 ; see note, p. 37.) IV. As to the relative quantity of salts.—The uses of the salts of the blood can only be conjectured, for we have very little knowledge on the subject. Dr. Stevens indeed has spoken on this matter with much confidence, and assigned to the salts of the blood an importance inversely proportionate to their quantitative amount, appropriating to them the office of preserving the blood in a fluid state (On the Blood, p. 6.), of rendering it stimulating to the heart (pp. 14, 43.), of giving to it its scarlet colour (p. 8.), and of influ- encing in some unknown and indefinite manner the nutritive and respiratory functions (pp. 43, 51. et passim). The ground on which these statements rest is, that “in every part of the world where healthy blood has been analysed, it has invariably been found to contain a given proportion of certain salts.” Now there certainly appears to be some mistake here respecting the fact, for if by given proportion is meant a fixed proportion, this is contrary to experience. It is not indeed to be doubted that the salts of the blood are sometimes deficient in cholera and other malignant fevers, but in order to constitute this any argument to prove that fevers and cholera depend on this cause, it will be necessary in the first place to prove that the salts are never deficient in a healthy state, and secondly, that this variation in regard to the salts is greater than what occurs in regard to the other elements of the blood. With respect to the first of these points, I may observe that the extreme plus and minus quantities of salts present in healthy blood, according to Le Canu, were ll'll and 5-10 in 1000 parts,—allowing, therefore, of a difference of just one half. But, ac- cording to Dr. Thompson, the diminution of the quantity of salts in cholera blood was very inconsiderable (Phil. Mag., May 1832); while, even in the two cases which are reported by Dr. O'Shaughnessy, the proportions were 5‘60 and 2'92 in 1000 parts of serum (Report on Malignant Cholera), the average standard being, according to Le Canu, 9-01. The utmost diminution, therefore, of the salts in cholera did not amount to more than 2*18 below the minimum, or 6-09 below the average standard of health. Now,as a cause of disease, this is surely not to be compared with the extraordinary increase al- ready mentioned of solid contents, or the extraordinary disorganization of the blood in other respects. The truth is, that neither the increase of solid contents, nor the dimi- nution of the saline, are to be looked upon as causes, but rather as effects of the disease. The serous, and therefore the saline, parts of the blood pass off by the stools, but the cause of these stools must necessarily be antecedent. The second condition is equally incapable of proof, for beyond all question, every other element of the blood is subject to as great a variation as the salts, and much greater. Thackrah has referred to two cases of cholera in which there was an increase of solid contents to 400 and 500 in 1000 parts of blood, which is considerably more than double the common average, and exceeds the maximum quantity of healthy blood much more than the deficiency of salts in disease falls short of the minimum quantity of this element in a healthy state of the system. The fibrin, according to Le Canu, va- ries from 1-360 to 7 235 consistently with astate of health, and according to Dr. Whiting, it sometimes rises from 2-8 to 6- or even 9-7 in acute rheumatism and pleurisy. An equal variation is observable in regard to the hsematosine and red globules. Shall we,GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 47 also from the mass of blood in uterine-gestation, being the fluid in which the foetus is immersed or swims* *. I have seen it separate from the remaining mass before the coagula- tion of the lymph. I observed once in the blood of a lady, that a se- paration between the two fluids almost immediately took place, the serous part swimming on the top, while the lymph remained still fluid. From this appearance I had pronounced that there would be a great deal of buff, supposing that the transparent fluid at the top was coagu- lating lymph; but I was mistaken, for when the lymph was coagulated, there was no buff, and the transparent fluid remaining at top, proved to be the serum. In this there could be no deception, as there was no buff, or size; for if there had been size at the top of the coagulum, it might have been supposed that this fluid, which appeared so soon after bleeding, had then, make no account of these alterations in the primary constituents of the blood, be- cause the salts happen to be affected at the same time, especially when we reflect on the known and paramount importance of these substances ? With all respect for the abilities of Dr. Stevens, and for the contributions which he has undoubtedly made to our knowledge of the blood, I cannot but regard his reasoning on this subject as liable to the greatest objection. Dr. Prout has indeed brought forward some happy illustrations concerning the effect of inflnitessimal quantities of foreign matter in modifying the composition of organic bodies, from which it may fairly be inferred that the salts in the blood perform an im- portant, although to us as yet unknown, office in the animal oeconomy. This distin- guished chemist has even gone yet further, and endeavoured to assign a particular use of one of the individual salts; for having remarked that chlorine or muriatic acid is sometimes evolved during the process of digestion, he thinks it probable that the muriate of soda undergoes decomposition in the stomach ; the chlorine or muriatic acid being secreted into this organ to aid in the act of digestion, while the soda is retained in the blood to confer on this fluid its alkaline properties. (Bridgewater Treatise, p. 499.) * [The average specific gravity of serum being taken, at a temperature of 60°, as 1029-5, that of hydrocephalic fluid varies from 1000-5 to 1019, a middle term being most frequent. The fluid of hydatids is about 1004, sometimes not containing a trace of albumen. Effusions into the chest 1019 to 1024, and ascitic effhsions 1014 to 102C. The ratio of serum to crassamentum is extremely variable, depending on many cir- cumstances. Whatever accelerates the coagulation diminishes the contractility of the clot; to which head belongs the shape of the receiving vessel. “ If this be shallow, the crassamentum will be abundant; if approaching the form of the cube or sphere, it will be scanty. This difference is owing to the greater or less distance of the coagulating particles from a common centre, which causes a more or less powerful adhesion and contraction of these particles.” (Babington, loc. cit.) There is also another circumstance to be considered; for in proportion as the form of the vessel departs from that of a sphere, the blood is subjected to a more extensive contact with dead matter, which ac- celerates the coagulating process. Hence the quantity of clot is inversely as the mass of the blood; because when the mass is small, the surface of contact is usually great. The actual quantity of fibrin in these cases is the same; but the quantity of serum in- volved in the interstices of the clot is greater in one case than it is in the other.]48 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. been the coagulating lymph, and that the serum had been separated in the act of coagulation as usual. The serum is commonly of a yellowish colour, sometimes more so than at others; and this I should conceive arises from the substances dissolved in it*, by means of the water it contains ; for it probably suspends every salt soluble in water, many of which are dissolved in it. If serum be not coagulable in itself, though it contains a large quantity of coagulable matter, yet I conceive it to be in a more fluid state when circulating. As it is separated from a com- pound mass, it appears in this respect to be somewhat similar to the whey of milk, though not exactly. This fluid undergoes no spontaneous changes, but what may arise from its separation from the coagulating lymph, except putrefaction. Though not coagulable in itself, yet one of its properties out of the body is to coagulate upon the application of certain substances. This is the principal change it undergoes; and during this process, it more or less separates into two parts, one of which is not coagulable by such means. The coagulable part, which I now mean to describe, seems to be in some degree the same with that in the white of an egg, synovia, &c., and many other secretions, but not exactly; for those secretions con- tain, as I conceive, a quantity of the coagulating lymph united to them, which makes them in part coagulate after secretion; and the further coagulation of those secretions afterwards, by mixture with other sub- stances, is owing to this part of the serum. Though the serum is coagu- lable under certain circumstances, and with certain mixtures, yet this power or effect may be prevented by other mixtures. Heat, to a cer- tain degree, coagulates this part; and probably this is the only test necessary to know whether a fluid found anywhere in the body, not coagulable in itself, is this part of the serum; but as many substances do also coagulate it, I shall mention a few of them, although to me their effects do not seem to throw any light on the subject. Heat co- agulates the serum at 160° or 165°; it stood at 150° for some time perfectly fluid. There is a great deal of air contained in the serum, which is let loose by heat; but not when it is coagulated by other means. The serum which was a little whitish coagulated in that degree of heat necessary for separating its air, which was extricated in very large quan- tities. 'This coagulum becomes first like the synovia, and then thicker. Many substances which do not coagulate this part of the serum do not, however, hinder its coagulation by heat; such as vinegar, acid of lemon, salt of wormwood, nitre, sea-salt"1. * The red globules are suspended without being dissolved in the serum, in which they are commonly examined. [According to the best analyses, synovia and the white of egg do not contain any49 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. Serum coagulates with spirits of wine, in about equal quantities, into a sort of curd and whey, which upon heating becomes something like a jelly, but the spirit seems to evaporate. It coagulates with volatile spirits into a milky fluid, which becomes like a jelly upon heating; it requires a greater proportion of the spirit than the serum, and the spirit seems chiefly to evaporate. When mixed with salt of hartshorn it does not coagulate with heat, but makes a large effervescence till the whole is formed into froth. This again becomes a fluid by the froth subsiding, but at last it forms a sort of coagulum which is not tough. Being i mixed with water, and let to stand for twelve hours, it coagulates like pure serum upon heating. If this be mixed with sal. cornu cervi, as above, it rather becomes more fluid, and continues so for a long time, • fibrin, consequently these substances have no resemblance to the coagulable lymph of the blood. Undiluted albumen coagulates at a temperature of 160°, and is rendered opake at 212°, even when diluted with 1000 parts of water, unless excess of free or carbonated alkali be present, in which case it will not be coagulated by heat. (See Bur- rows in Med. Gazette, xiv. 555.) It is a singular fact that serum when diluted with 20 parts of water is not precipitable by a temperature of 165°. Galvanism and the mineral acids are very excellent tests of the presence of albumen, and so are the solutions of the ferrocyanate of potash and corrosive sublimate. Albumen diluted with 2000 parts of water may easily be detected by the two latter. The mode in which heat, galvanism, alcohol, acids, and a variety of other agents produce coagulation of the albumen has long been the subject of debate. The most general, and, as it appears to me, the most rational, explanation of the matter is as fol- lows, viz. that the albumen of serous fluids is held in solution by means of a free al- kali ; but by heat the free soda of the serum is transferred to the water or united to the carbonic acid of the atmosphere; by acids it is neutralised, and by galvanism it is attracted to the negative pole of the trough. However, this explanation is not quite satisfactory. Dr. Bostock has shown not only that excess of acetic acid does not co- agulate albumen, but that the quantity of free alkali present is too inconsiderable to produce the effect ascribed to it. Others have supposed that alcohol and acids coagulate albumen by abstracting the water; but it is possible to desiccate albumen by slow eva- poration without necessarily destroying its distinctive property, which is that of being again soluble upon the addition of water. The mineral salts do not merely precipitate albumen from its solution, but chemically combine with it, so as to produce specific compounds. Dr. Turner has suggested “ that albumen combines directly with water at the moment of being secreted, at a time that its particles are in a state of minute divi- sion ; but as its affinity for that liquid is very feeble, the compound is decomposed by slight causes, and the albumen thereby rendered quite insoluble. Silica affords an in- ■ stance of a similar phenomenon,” (Elem. of Cliem., 4th edit., p. 868.). But the cases J are not analogous. Albumen admits of being dried at a temperature below 150°, and j even of being heated to 212°, without losing its solubility ; whereas silica remains per-' fectly insoluble after it has once been precipitated. The truth seems to be that albumen is one of those compounds which allow of a new arrangement of their molecular particles with exceeding facility, similar to muscular ibre, which is rendered permanently rigid by a temperature at least 20° below that , which is required to coagulate albumen. It is scarcely therefore correct to say that albumen before and after coagulation are identical substances.] ' VOL. III. KGENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. so with a strong effervescence ; but it forms at length into a jelly or paste, although not a solid one. Here I suspect that the salt is evaporated, and likewise the water in the paste, so that it is not a true coagulation. . hen mixed with common water it is coagulated by heat; but the water separates Avith the other substance, and does not unite with the coagulum. Upon the coagulation of the serum by heat I have observed that it separates a fluid which is not coagulable by heat, and I have reason to believe by none of the other means, viz. spirits of wine, &c., though this is not so easily ascertained; for the other coagulating substances, as spirits of wine, &c., are applied in a fluid form, and therefore a fluid may remain after the coagulation of the serum, which might be supposed to be the fluid separated; but from other experiments it is proved that those substances coagulate the coagulating part and unite with the other. It is also observable in meat, either roasted or boiled, that when cut there flows from it a fluid more or less tinged with the red part, com- monly called gravy. I conceived that this must be different from the coagulating part of the serum, believing that the heat had been sufficient to coagulate it; but I chose to try it further, and therefore gave it such heat as would have produced the effect if it had been coagulable by heat; but I found it did not coagulate. The fluid separated from the coagu- lable part of the serum, I conceived to be the same with this. Thus then I saw there was in the serum a matter coagulable by heat, and a fluid which was not so. Pursuing the above observations on dressed meat, I observed that the older the animal had been, the more of this fluid was contained in the meat. In lamb we have hardly any of it, in young mutton of a year old but little; but in mutton of three, four, five, or six years old it is in large quantity : in veal also we have but little, while we have it in great quantity in beef. But perhaps we know less in general of the age of our beef than of our mutton*.B Poultry is commonly killed young in this country, therefore we have not the comparative trials; but in wild fowl, and what is commonly * It may be observed here that this is very different from the jelly formed in boiling or roasting meat; that which forms the jelly is part of the meat itself, dissolved down in this very fluid, and the water in which it is boiled ; and we find that this effect is just the reverse of the above, for in young meat there is most of this jelly. ■ [This fluid, which is termed the serosity, may be obtained from the coagulum by gentle expression. It contains a little muriate of soda, a little free alkali, and about i one fiftieth of its weight of animal matter, principally albumen, which is immediately j coagulated by galvanism or the mineral acids. Brande supposes that the albumen is | held in solution in this case, as in the serum, by virtue of the free alkali which is pre- sent ; but Dr. Bostock has objected to this view of the case, for reasons which haveGENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 51 called game, we find the above observations hold good. I likewise observe that animals which have not had exercise, such as house-lamb, veal, &c., have less of this fluid than those of the same class which have been allowed to go at large. Nothing can be drier than the English veal, though kept to a greater age than anywhere else ; while it is juicy in every other country, though killed much younger. In many of the trials respecting the coagulation of the serum, I ob- • served that it had in some cases much more coagulum than in others; and of course a less proportion of the fluid part that separated, and vice versd; from the above observations too I conceived that a defici- : ency of this fluid part bespoke a greater quantity of coagulating matter in the serum; and to ascertain this I took the serum of persons of dif- ferent ages. This fluid, like the serum itself when united with the co- agulating lymph, appears only to be mixed with the serum; for it is separated in the living body for many purposes of the oeconomy; it is not therefore serum in another form, but a distinct fluid, which before coagulation is mingled with the serum, and seems to make a part of it. The following experiments are, perhaps, not perfectly conclusive, for many were obliged to be made on blood taken from those who were not perfectly in health ; peculiar dispositions in the body may make a ma- terial difference in the serum. It is probable, however, that disease may not have any great effect upon the serum; for I found, from ex- periment, that the serum of blood taken from a person labouring under an inflammatory complaint, and the serum of blood in a case not at all inflammatory, were nearly the same respecting coagulation and the quan- tity of matter not coagulable by heat. The serum of a man fifty-six years of age, who had met with a slight accident, and was of a healthy constitution, coagulated by heat almost wholly into a pretty firm coagulum, separating only a small portion of that fluid which is not coagulable by such means. The serum of the blood of a man seventy-two years of age, of a healthy constitution, hardly coagulated by heat, became only a little thicker, and formed a small coagulum, adhering to the bottom of the vessel. With spirits it formed but a very small quantity of coagulable matter. On putting about three fourths of water to the blood of the person aged fifty-six, and heating it as above, it coagulated much in the same way with the been adverted to in a previous note. The serosity does not appear to merit any par- ticular attention. The basis of muscular fibre, or meat properly so called, is fibrin, which is insoluble, except in very minute quantities, by the continued action of boiling water. Jeily is a solution of gelatine, which is a distinct animal principle, with which young animals abound, but which, according to Front, is a less animalized product than either albu- men or fibrin.]52 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF T1IE BLOOD. serum of seventy-two. The serum of a boy fifteen years of age coagu- lated wholly; there was hardly any of the fluid part that could be squeezed out: at the same time I coagulated the serum of a man sixty- three years of age, in which there was but a small quantity of the fluid part. Conceiving that the whey of milk, made with rennet, was the serum of the blood, I made experiments on it analogous to the above. I heated some of the whey, and found it formed a coagulable matter, which ^floated in flakes in a fluid, which did not coagulate by this means. As this less coagulable fluid is a substance hitherto not taken notice of, and makes perhaps as interesting a part as any of the whole mass of blood, it will be necessary to be more descriptive in giving an account of it than of the other parts. Urine does not coagulate by heat; but as I found that it coagulated with the extract of Goulard*, and as I also knewr that this extract coagulated the whole mass of the serum, I con- ceived that the fluid in question might be similar to urine, and that the coagulation of the serum might be owing to the coagulation of this part: I therefore put the fluid to this test, and found that it was co- agulated by the extract, which led to a series of experiments. As several fluids, apparently different from each other, appear to be thrown out from the blood on many occasions, I wished to see how far they consisted of the common serum, viz. of a pretty equal quantity of matter coagulable by heat, or principally of that coagulable by Gou- lard’s extract; I therefore collected the several kinds ; not only those which may be called natural, but also those proceeding from disease, which appear more like serum than the others. Of the natural, I took the aqueous humour of the eye, and first heated it in a spoon, to see what quantity of coagulable matter by heat was in it, and I found it became gently wheyish : therefore it had a small portion of matter coag- ulable by heat; but upon adding the extract to it, it coagulated imme- diately. The same exactly happened with the w'ater in the ventricles of the brain ; and also with the tears. Water was taken from the leg of a dropsical boy, who was extremely reduced by a compound fracture of the opposite thigh-bone, which water was much clearer than any serum. Upon heating it in a spoon over a candle, it became a little wheyish, and had a few flakes of coagulum • What led me to the above knowledge was mixing this extract of Goulard with solutions of gum arabic in water for injections, when I found that the whole always became a solid mass; while injections with saccharum saturni had not that effect. I then tried it upon many other vegetable juices, and found it coagulated every one of them. In some of these experiments I put some of the compounds into a vessel where there was some urine, and I found that, when the extract had been in too large a quan- tity, the urine was also coagulated.GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 53 floating in it. The water from the abdomen of a lady, which was a little wheyish, coagulated before it gave out its air; but the coagulum was not one half of its quantity. In another case of ascites, the \\ ater coagulated wholly, although not to a firm coagulum. Water drawn from the abdomen of a gentleman, which was pretty clear, when held over a lamp to coagulate, became at first wheyish. The liquor amnii has but very little coagulable matter in it. In coagulating all the above hinds of serum by heat, and taking the incoagulable parts and putting extract of Goulard to them, they coagulated immediatelya. Whether this fluid is of the same specific gravity with the other I do not know; for though when part of it is coagulated by the extract of lead it is the heaviest, yet as it is united with the lead, it may acquire its additional weight from this union. The use of the serum is probably to keep suspended and undissolved the red globules; for we find it in largest quantity when these globules are most abundant. It is also intended to suspend and dissolve any foreign substances in the blood, whether they are of use to the body or otherwise, acting upon them as a common solvent. Thus we see in a jaundiced person the serum is yellower than common. When a person has taken rhubarb the same thing happens. It is probably the solvent of all our secretions. I conceive it to be unnecessary to say how much water enters into the composition of the blood. In order to constitute a perfect body or compound it is necessary that all its parts should be in due proportion. But as the blood in many animals is made up of four distinct parts, viz. the coagulating lymph, serum, which we find is composed of two parts, and the red globules, each must have its due quantity of water when in a perfect state; and 1 think it is probable that the lymph and red part cannot have more water than a certain quantity, but that the serum may be diluted with any proportion of it. Yet, as serum, it can have a cer- tain proportion only; and indeed this was in some degree proved by the experiment of mixing some water with serum, and then coagulating the whole with heat: the water separated and did not make a part of the coagulum. Some of the juices of a living animal, whether circulating or out of circulation, as those which lubricate surfaces, are in a volatile state while the animal is alive; for when the scarf-skin is taken off, the part soon dries; and if the skin is removed from a new-killed animal, it immediately dries; or if a cavity is opened, the surface of the cavity * [These are merely examples of the precipitation of albumen or mucus by means of Goulard's extract in variable proportions.]54 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. dries quickly; this shows that some part of the juices must have eva- porated from the surface: but let the animal cool before it is skinned or the cavity is opened, and then give it the same degree of heat that it had when alive, you will find, on taking off the skin, no immediate sen- sible evaporation, but the parts so exposed will remain moist. This volatility I conceive therefore to be connected with life, and not with the circulation ; for that is stopped in both cases before the experiment. Whether it is this volatile part that gives the smell that most recently- killed animals have upon being skinned or opened I do not know; but it may be observed that it follows the same rules, for if the animal is allowed to cool it loses this smell, although warmed to the same degree of heat as when alivea. The serum of the blood is sometimes wheyish, and then upon settling it often throws up a white scum like cream. This was most probably first observed in the human blood, but is not peculiar to it. Although these appearances pretty often happen, yet few instances fall under the observation of one man in the common course of bleeding. When they have occurred to myself 1 have made inquiry after the state of health of “ [The halitus, or vapour, which is emitted from fresh-drawn blood, is of this kind, and consists almost exclusively of water holding in solution minute quantities of animal matter and salts, together with a peculiar aromatic principle. It occasionally happens that this effluvium is exalted to a very intense degree, so as to occasion headache, sick- ness, fainting, dysentery, and even death. In suppression of urine it acquires a strong urinous character. Orfila and more recently Barrueil (Ann. d'Hygitne, i. 274, 550. Revue Med., Sept. 1829,) have attempted to establish the possibility of distinguishing the different tribes of animals by the peculiarity of smell disengaged from blood-spots or stains upon the addition of strong sulphuric acid. The odour which exhales is said to resemble strongly the perspiration or respiration of the animal from which the blood is derived, which in men having dark hair and complexions and in carnivorous animals is said to be peculiarly characteristic. M. Leuret, in order to test the accuracy of M. Barrueil’s assertions, sent four specimens in phials containing ox blood, horse blood, and blood from the human subject both male and female. M. Barrueil detected the two former, but in regard to the two latter he mistook the male’s for the female's; a mistake, however, which, under the circumstances, strongly confirmed his own views of the case, for it so happened that the man from whom the blood was taken was fair, whereas the woman had dark hair and was remarkably strong. These statements have been supported by Leuret and Chevallier, and as stoutly denied by Raspail, Villerme, and Soubeyan, so that considerable doubt at present hangs over the subject; and evi- dence founded on these data would not, I apprehend.be admissible in a court of justice on any medico-legal question. (Raspail, Chtm. Organ., p. 383. Ann. des Sc. d’Obser. 1829, il. 183. 465.) Blood-spots on linen clothes or steel instruments may be distinguished from any other marks: 1st, by the evolution of ammonia on dry distillation; 2nd, by the effects of acids and neutral salts on solutions of the colouring matters; 3rd, by the usual tests for albumen; and 4th, by blood scaling off from steel instruments On being heated, and leaving them tolerably clean and free from rust.]0 3 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OP THE BLOOD. the patient, as well as examined the nature of tliis change and whether there was any variety in it. So far as I have been able to observe, it can hardly be said to have any leading cause: having found it, how- ever, more frequently in the blood of breeding women, I conceived it might have some connexion with that state ; but I have seen it in others, and sometimes in men. Yet it is possible that the state of pregnancy may adapt the constitution for forming such appearances, as well as for producing other symptoms in the blood like those of inflammation; for we often find the same effect or disease arising from various causes which have no immediate connexion with each other. There have been many opinions formed about the nature and cause of this appearance of the serum. It has been supposed to be occasioned by chyle not yet assimilated ; but it does not occur frequently enough to be attributed to this fluid. Mr. Hewson supposed it to be absorbed fat or oil; which certainly is not the case, for it is not the same in all cases*. * [Opaline or milky serum would appear to depend on certain principles (stearine and oleine) naturally present in the blood (see Analysis, p. 18), but which under cer- tain circumstances superabound in the system. In a very well marked case of this kind, Dr. Babington estimated the proportion of oleaginous matters at three per cent, of the whole serum. (Med.-Chir. Trans., xvi. p. 46.) Dr. Traill, in two other cases, estimated it at 2-44 and 4’50 per cent. (Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ., xvii. 235. 637. April 1823.), and Dr. Christison at five per cent {lb., October 1829.) The proportion in healthy serum does not exceed ’257, or about one quarter per cent. Milky serum varies in specific gravity from 1019 to 1024, that of healthy serum being 1029-5. This loss of specific gravity in milky serum is apparently dependent on a cor- responding deficiency of albumen, and affords an example of the easy convertibility of one animal principle into another under peculiar conditions of the system, somewhat analogous to the conversion of dried fibrin, and perhaps also of albumen, into adipocere, by digestion with ether and alcohol (see note, p. 46.). Dr. Babington did not observe that the degree of milkiness bore any proportion to the quantity of oily matters present. By agitating serum and ether together, and decanting and evaporating the latter, the oily matter may easily be obtained. Collected on bibulous paper or amianthus, it may be burned like any other oil. When the quantity of oily matter is very considerable the blood is observed to have a chocolate or milky colour even while flowing from the vessel; which is a clear proof that the oil primarily exists in the blood, or in other words that it is an educt and not a product of the processes for obtaining it. (LeCanu in Journ.de Chim. Med., June 1835.) The circumstances under which milky serum has been observed to exist are so unlike as to render it impossible to assign any probable state of the constitution as leading to its production. (Journal de Pharmacie, No. X.) Marcet, Berzelius, and Thackrah havo partaken of the opinion that this appearance is derived from a mixture of unassimilated chyle with the blood ; a conjecture which derives some support from the fact that chyle taken from an animal which has recently fed on fat animal diet presents precisely simi lar appearances. Mr. Thackrah has affirmed “that when the lacteals are fully dis- tended (in dogs), this cream-like appearance is almost always presented in the blood Indeed, we may generally produce it at will by taking blood a certain time after a fullGENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 56 I he globules forming this wheyish appearance are not of the same specific gravity in every case ; for though they always, I believe, swim on the serum, and often on water, yet they sometimes sink in water. The white cream that swims on the top of the serum I believe to be formed after the serum is separated from the mass, for if it existed as such prior to this, it would be retained in the coagulum, as the red globules are, which is not the fact, and therefore it does not exist in the blood while circulating. I bled a little woman who seemed half an idiot, and was big with child : this happened in the afternoon, about three or four hours after she had eaten some veal cutlets. The day following I went to see the blood, and found the serum of a milky white, with a white pellicle swim- ming at the top like cream. I bled a lady in the arm, who was six months gone with child. It was about two o’clock in the forenoon: she had only eaten a dry toast and drank a cup of chocolate for break- fast, about ten o’clock, which was four hours before she was bled. On seeing the blood the next day, I found it inflamed rather more than is common in women who are pregnant, and I also found a thin white scum on the top of the serum : this scum I examined iu the microscope, and found it to be globular. I diluted it with water, and found the globules did not dissolve as the red globules do. I put some of them into water, and found that they rose to the top, but not so fast as ip the serum. About six days after I bled the same lady again, after she had eaten the same kiud of breakfast, and about the same interval of time from it. The blood was still sizy, but the serum had no white appear- ance at the top. I examined the wheyish serum taken from the blood of a man at St. George’s Hospital, who had received a severe blow on the head, which had stunned him, but had produced no bad symptoms. In this serum. meal.” (Op. cit., p. 120.) The same appearance had also frequently been observed in the serum of animals that arc very fat. Dr. l’rout regards the fatty matter of chyle as incipient albumen. From some cause therefore, such as the absorption of a peculiarly rich chyle after a full meal, or the sudden and temporary increase in the actiou of the absorbents, an undue proportion of fat is absorbed and carried into the blood, where, being suspended in the serum in the form of an emulsion, it becomes visible. M. Raspail endeavours to account for this appearance upon the supposition that an acid is generated in the blood which saturates the free alkali of the serum and precipitates the albumen. The irregularity of the action of the absorbents is well exemplified by several cases recorded in the 4 th volume of the Dublin Journal of Medical and Chemical Science, in which extraordinary quantities of fatty matters were discharged by the bowels. In the Annali Universali a case is related in which thirty pounds weight of fat were dis- charged from the bowels in twenty-four hours. “ The patient nearly sunk, and In rkin hung in folds as though all his fat had been absorbed."]57 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. when viewed in the microscope, I could not observe anything like glo- bules or flakes, although the magnifier was a deep o«ne. The red glo- bules when mixed with it were the same as in common serum. It dried uniformly like size. Blood was taken away from the arm, being of no particular quality, except in having a wheyish serum, and was allowed to stand quiet in order to see the spontaneous changes of this serum. The white part came to the top like cream, being therefore lighter than the serum, and was very white when collected. When viewed in a microscope it was plainly globular, but the globules were smaller than those of red blood. They did not seem to be dissolved when mixed with water, as red glo- bules are. Thomas Skelton, a publican, forty-seven years of age, being rather lusty, and subject to frequent colds, attended with coughs, hoarseness, and a discharge of matter from the lungs or throat, but otherwise en- joying a good state of health, was attacked with a violent cold, together with a- difficulty of breathing, for which he applied to Mr. Wilson, apo- thecary, who took twelve ounces of blood from his arm, which relieved him greatly. He had taken some bread and butter, with some tea without milk, about four hours before he was bled. The blood coagu- lated firmly, and the serum which separated was of a white colour with a yellowish tinge, appearing like the colour of cream ; upon the top of this floated a whiter scum, like another cream. On viewing this cream in a microscope it had a flaky appearance ; it did not coagulate sooner than common serum. In spirits of wine a white mixture was produced, which, on standing, fell to the bottom of the glass : this most probably arose from the serum, with which it was mixed, coagulating. The globules of white serum differ from the red globules in colour, specific gravity, size, and in not dissolving in water. To see how far this is chyle, it would be proper to try the chyle in the same way in serum, &c. After dipping a bit of blotting-paper into the cream, and absorbing all of it, and also dipping a piece of the same paper into the serum, and drying them, I burnt them both, to see if one burnt more briskly than the other; but there appeared to be no difference. The white part of the white serum sunk in water. §.4. Of the Red Globules. The red part of the blood I choose to consider last, although it has been more the object of attention than the other two, because I believe58 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. it to be the least important; for it is not a universal ingredient in the blood of animals, like the coagulating lymph and serum, neither is it to be found in every part of those animals which have it in the general mass of their blood*. The blood, as I have already observed, in those animals we are most acquainted with appears to the naked eye to be a red mass of fluid, having a part which coagulates upon being extravasated. The red part, however, may be washed out of this coagulum, so as to leave it white ; and this shows that the blood is not wholly red, but only has a red matter diffused through its other component parts*'. * The blood of the insect tribe of every kind is free from any red parts, as is pro- bably that of most animals below them ; yet it has been asserted and supposed that their blood contains globules, although not red. I have examined the blood of the silk- worm, lobster, &c., and with considerable magnifying powers, but never could discover anything but a uniform transparent mass*. * [See Professor Grant’s Lectures on Comparative Anatomy, as reported in the Lancet, 1833-4, vol.ii. p. SGSetseq., where the existence of globules in the blood of insects is assumed as an indisputable fact. See also Bowcrbank in Entom. Mag., i. 239, who not only admits their existence, but affirms that they lose their peculiar elliptical form, and acquire the form of those of Mammalia when they are deprived of their external envelopes.] b [The red colouring matter, or hatmatosine, of the blood in the higher animals is not diffused through the whole mass, as in the class Anne tides, but belongs exclusively to its globular particles, constituting the external or investing tunic of their fibrinous nuclei. This matter, when separated from the other parts of the blood and dried, is a tasteless inodorous substance, red by transmitted and dark garnet-coloured by reflected light, very soluble in water, and capable of being preserved a great length of time without undergoing any change from the putrefactive process. Dissolved in 50 parts of water it begins to coagulate at a temperature of 149", and is precipitated in the form of insoluble brown flocculi. Prevost and Dumas have attempted to show that the colouring matter is not really dissolved in the water, but exists in a state of extremely minute division; so that though the fragments are sufficiently small to pass through a filter, they are yet plainly discernible through the microscope. I have already observed that hannatosine is now generally regarded as a modification of the albuminous principle. According to Berzelius it contains about '625 per cent, of iron, in some peculiar state of combination, which may be rendered manifest by the appropriate reagents for this metal, after deco- lorating the mixture by chlorine gas. The same authority states that 400 grains of colouring matter yielded on incineration five grains of ashes, which on accurate analysis were found to contain Oxide of iron 50 0 Subphosphate of iron 7‘5 Phosphate of lime with a small quantity of magnesia 6 0 Pure lime 20-0 Carbonic arid and loss 16'5 1000 (Med.-Chir. Trans., iii. 216; Engelhart in Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ., Jan. 1827 ; and Rose in the Ann. de Chim. et de Pht/s., xxxiv. 268.) The exclusive presence of iron in this element of the blood, joined to the known ten- dency of the peroxide of this metal to form salts of a red colour, has generally induced59 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. Any further information we receive concerning the red part of the blood is by means of magnifying glasses, which appear to give a good deal of information. They show us that the red part is composed of bodies of a globular form, swimming in the lymph and serum of the blood. This circumstance of the red part having form probably led anatomists to pay more attention to it than it deserves ; as if they could thence explain any essential principle in the blood or animal ceconomy. This knowledge is of late date; for such examinations of minute bodies could only have taken place since the invention and application of magnifying-glasses. Malpighi was probably the first who employed the microscope for this purpose; and he, in 1668, wrote a description of the appearance of the globules in the blood-vessels of the omentum, which he mistook, however, for globules of fat. Microscopical obser- vations were pursued with great ardour by Antonius Van Leewenhoeck, who saw the red globules, August the 15th, 1673. These early ob- servers probably imagined more than they saw. When an old opinion is partly exploded and a new one brought for- ward, it becomes only necessary to see how far the new one is just; because if it be not proved, we must revert to the old opinion again, or to some other. Mr. Hewson has been at great pains to examine the blood in the microscope, and has given us figures of the different shapes of those chemists to suppose that the colour of the blood is due to this cause. Those who wish to consider the arguments on this subject are referred to Berzelius (ubi ut supra) and Dr. Bostock (Physiology, i. 460.). I shall here only observe, 1st, that the tints pro- duced by reagents on the blood and on the compounds of iron are wholly dissimilar; and 2ndly, that the intensity of colour is too great to allow us to refer it to the minute quantity of iron present in the blood. Dr. Ure has ingeniously suggested that the colour of the blood may possibly depend on the sulphocyanate of potash, this sub- stance having been discovered in the saliva, at the same time that it strikes with the peroxide of iron a very deep and abundant tint much resembling that of the blood. Dr. Williams, on the authority of Dr. Maton, mentions “ the case of a lady whose per- spiration, when profuse, dyed the clothes on some parts of her person, particularly the wrists and neck, of a bright crimson colour, which was supposed by Dr. Proilt to be caused by the sulpho-cyanate of iron.” (Med. Gazette, xvi. 724.) But the explanation of this subject by Mr. Brande is by far the most plausible. lie supposes that the tint ot haematosine is owing to a peculiar colouring principle, capable, like cochineal or mad- der, of acting as a dye and of combining with metallic oxides. Pieces of calico impreg- nated with solutions of corrosive sublimate or nitrate of mercury, and afterwards im- mersed in an aqueous solution of haematosine, acquired a permanent dye of a fine lake red, unchangeable by washing; and solutions of oak bark gave a colour very nearly equal to that of madder and tolerably permanent. The Armenian dyers have for a long while been in the habit of employing it in combination with madder, in order to insure the permanency of that colour. (Phil. Trans. 1812.) JGENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 60 globules [Phil. Trans. 1773, p. 303.] ; but there is reason to think he may have been deceived in the manner I have just mentioned. The red globules are always nearly of the same size in the same ani- mal, and when in the serum do not run into one another as the oil does when divided into small globules in water. This form, therefore, does not arise simply from their not uniting with the serum, but they have really a determined shape and size. This is similar to what is observed of the globules in milk; for milk being oily, its globules are not soluble in water; neither do they consist of such pure oil as to run into each other; nor will they dissolve in oil. I suspect, therefore, that they are regular bodies, so that two of them could not unite and form one. What this property in the red part is I do not know, for it has some- thing like the nature of a solid body ; yet the particles seem not to have the properties of a solid, for to the touch they yield no feeling of soli- dity. When circulating in the vessels they may be seen to assume elliptical forms, adapting themselves to the size of the vessels; they must therefore be a fluid, with an attraction to themselves while in the serum which forms them into round globules, yet without the power of uniting with one another, which may arise from their central attraction extending no further than their own circumference. If they are found, however, of an oval figure in some animals, as authors have described, that circumstance would rather oppose the idea of their being a fluid having a central attraction ; but this is probably an optical deception. Whatever their shape is, I should suppose it to be always the same in the same animals, and indeed in all animals, as it must depend upon a fixed principle in the globule itself. Hence the less credit is to be given to those who have described the globules as being of an oval figure in some animals ; for they have also described them as being of different and strange shapes even in the same animal*. * I am led to believe that we may be deceived by the appearances viewed through a magnifying glass ; for although objects large enough to be seen by the naked eye are the same when viewed through a magnifying glass which can only magnify in a small degree, yet as the naked eye, when viewing an object rather too small for it, is not to be trusted, it is much less to be depended upon when viewing an object Infinitely smaller brought to the same magnitude by a glass. In such a situation, respecting our eye, all the relative objects by which the eye, from habit, judges with more nicety of the object itself, are cut off. The eye has likewise a power of varying its forms, adapt- ing it to the different distances of the parts of an object within its compass, making die object always a whole; but a magnifying glass has no such power. For instance, in viewing a spherical body, a magnifying glass must be made to vary its position, and bring in succession the different parts of the hemisphere into so many focal points, every part separate not having the same relative effect on our organ of vision as when they are all seen at the same time; and the eye, under such circumstances, being unable to vary itself sufficiently to alter the focal distance of the glass, is the reason w hy roundedGENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 61 The globules of the blood are endowed with a number of properties. They are the only part of.the blood which has form or colour; two bodies appear of different shapes, giving the shape only of the part that is within the focus of the glass, placed upon an undefined plane; and if it should have more focal points than one then there is an increase of parts; and this will vary according to the opacity or transparency of the body. It may also be remarked that from habit our minds are informed by the necessary actions of our body; therefore the eye, taking on the necessary actions (as it were instinctively), adapting itself at once to the circum- stances of the object, gives an intelligence to the mind, independent of the real impres- sion of the object; so that both the impression and the consequent action give informa- • tion. But this cannot be effected by glasses; for the different focal distances of the hemisphere do not accord with those to which we vary our eyes in adapting them to the distances of the different parts of a rounded body. We are, therefore, left to the impression alone, which is new and consequently imperfect, the centre being too near for the circumference to be seen at one distance, and the circumference, when seen, ' bringing the centre within the focus, so as to obscure it: for an eye with a given focus which can vary it in a certain degree when viewing objects alone, yet when looking through a magnifying glass of any power must now vary the distance of the object according to the magnifying power in the glass, the eye not being able to vary the focal distance of both ; and this, probably, in an inverse degree to the magnifying power of the glass. This may be observed to take place in very short-sighted people, for in them the eye has the least variation respecting distance. A rounded body may be just of such a size as shall have either of its parts out of the focal distance of the eye, and must be moved to and fro alternately before the centre and circumference can be seen; and indeed it is only having a spherical body, of a size proportional to the length of focus, to produce the same effect in every eye. The appearances in a transparent body when viewed through a magnifying glass are still more fallacious than of an opake one : for an opake body gives only the reflected light, which however will vary according as the rays come on the object. The moon, an opake body, gives us various shapes, and therefore shows only the light and shade arising from the irregularity of the surface; but a semitransparent body, like a red globule, gives both the reflection of the light from the surface and also the refraction of other rays of lights, which vary according to the direction of the light thrown upon the object respecting our eye. In some transparent bodies we have still a greater variety, for we have both the re- flex and refracted light, and these vary according to the distance of the object from the eye or the distance of the light. If the transparent body is not perfectly round, or is by any circumstance broken in the uniformity of structure on which transparency depends, which I conceive happens to the red globules when diluted in the serum, then the different reflections and refrac- tions will give to the eye the impression of so many shapes*. * [The improvements which have been effected in the construction of microscopes by the adoption of achromatic object glasses has only partially removed the scepticism which still justly attaches to observations made with this instrument. There still exists the greatest imaginable disagreement between the statements of different microscopical observers. “ An historical detail,” Dr. Bostock observes, “ of the errors into which this instrument has led even those who have been the most skilful in its application, would have the effect of inducing us to place little confidence in hypotheses and spe- culations which are derived from objects which can only be detected by the use of high62 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. properties which are ready to catch the eye and render the mass more visible. In the living body, by making it an object of sight, they give magnifiers.” No one I imagine that has examined the conflicting accounts which have been given respecting the globules of the blood will be disposed to doubt the justness of this observation. Hewson, Home, Meckel, Bauer, Prevost, and the greater number of authorities de- scribe the globules of the blood as consisting of a central nucleus surrounded by a trans- parent vesicle; Hodgkin affirms that they are flattened cakes, and rejects the notion of a vesicle; others that they are elliptical, spherical, or ovoid; and others again that they are mere rings with central depressions, or mere discs with central elevations. The same discrepancy is observable in the accounts which have been given of the size of these bodies. Twine estimated their diameter at 8 j 4 to T!,t.ru of an inch, Bauer Hodgkin -jVw. Cavallo Rudolplii Tn‘0T to Wollaston Prevost and Dumas -TTfrT, Raspail to Haller, Home and Kater and Young ynfw Amidst these discordant statements it would be absurd in any one to pretend to accuracy. The following account, therefore, of these bodies by Professor Mayo can only be regarded as an approximation to the truth; and I take the liberty of inserting it in this place, first, because it accords most accurately with my own observations, and, secondly, because it approaches as nearly as possible to the mean of all the preceding ob- servations. “ The form of the globules (in man) may be compared to a silk-worm’s egg. They are circular and extremely thin, with rounded edges and a central depression on either flat surface. Their diameter is very exactly „ part of an inch. They are flexible, and, when, rolling upon their edges, are often bent in such a manner that they appear to consist of a central nucleus projecting from a thin disc. Plate XX. fig. 5—10 [which see] represents six squares of a glass micrometer, each side of a square being T J,W part of an inch. In the squares 5. 6. 7. different appearances of the particles of the human blood are delineated, their central depression, and various positions in which they may be seen when rolling down an inclined surface—fig. 8. 9. 10 represent the particles of the blood of a skate: they appear to differ from the particles of human blood principally in being of a much larger size, in their oval outline, and in the oval figute of their central depression.” (Outlines of Human Physiology, 3rd edit., p. 23.) The size and shape of the globules differ very remarkably in different animals. In the skate, for example, they are elliptical and about twice as large as in human blood. In fishes they are about a7,'iro to tjVit' and in the frog, about -mVe of an inch in dia- meter ; in the water-sow they are about ten times as large, and in the land salamander, nearly thirteen times as large as those of the human blood. These last are the largest which have yet been discovered. It may be observed that the globules are larger in all cold-blooded animals, and represent the oval or ellipse more decidedly than those of mammalia. Sir Everard Home has stated that the blood-globules, when they have discharged their external envelope of colouring matter, are disposed to coalesce like beads in a row, so as to form fibrils; from which he was led to believe that the ultimate muscular fibre was composed of these corpuscles lineally arranged, an opinion which has been parti- cipated in by MM. Prevost and Dumas, Dutrocbet, and many other eminent physiolo- gists. Dr. Hodgkin agrees as to the fact of the disposition of the globules to form piles or rouleaux, but affirms that this disposition only exists when they are in their entire state. ,Nir Everard Home has also stated, upon the authority of Bauer, that a different and63 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. some idea of the motion of the blood in the smaller vessels, where it is i much divided : being there viewed with microscopes, the red globules smaller series of globules (lymph-globules) are generated during coagulation, being in diameter about -y-gVo- an incb< Tbese are saitl t0 be generated in greatest abundance immediately after coagulation; but Professor Faraday has observed them to form so late as the eighth or tenth day ; and Dr. Stevens, who examined them by the solar micro- scope, found that they were equally numerous at all periods, and as abundant as the i red globules. He says they varied in size amongst themselves, the largest being at least six times larger than the smallest; but then the latter resembled the globules in rain- water, which are generally believed to consist of air in a state of very minute division. The prevalence of globules in several of the animal secretions, and in chyle, has led some physiologists to suspect that these particles are identical with the blood globules; those which are found in the secretions, as the milk, the semen, &c., being deprived of • their external tunics of colouring matter, while those which are found in the chyle are destined to receive these tunics during the blood’s passage through the lungs; nay, the . globular structure of the ultimate textures of the body has even induced some to suppose that these particles of the blood form the pabulum of nutrition, not merely of the mus- cular fibre, but of every other part: but these are mere conjectures, too vague and in- definite to support any physiological argument, which not only do not advance science, but tend rather to retard it, by seducing the mind from the substantial evidence of facts into the ideal regions of imagination. The diversified magnitudes of the globules, according to micrometrical measurement, not only in the blood of different species, but in the textures of the same animal, are circumstances clearly against the notion that these constitute the ultimate molecules of organic structures; not to add that the struc- ture of many parts is such as not easily to admit the red globules at any period of their growth. In reference to the objection urged by our author to the solidity of the globules, viz., that they show no disposition to coalesce, I may observe, first, that when the capillary circulation is viewed under a good microscope, the globules are often observed to meet and repel one another, from which it has been supposed that the principle of life may confer (like electricity) a new power of repulsion on these bodies, or at least control the aggregative tendency ; and secondly, that the nature of the circulation must be ad- mirably adapted to diffuse the globules through the whole mass of the blood, as well as to prevent tbeir coalescence in any particular part. It is not, however, necessary to answer specifically this or any other objection in order to prove the solidity of the glo- bules, for if they were not solid, it must be evident they would always assume the form of spherules, and those spherules would always be of the same size; whereas the fact is, the shape and size of the globules are different in almost every different species of animal, but uniformly the same in the same species; not to mention that the colouring matter of the globules forms a leading constituent of the blood, and may be collected and examined like any other solid body. The spontaneous volvular and rotary movements which have been observed in the globules of the blood and semen by G. L. Treviranus, Schultz, Dutrochet, Tiedemann, and other microscopical observers, must (if true) materially tend, with the circumstances before mentioned, to promote their diffusion through the whole mass of blood. (Revue Med. i. 136—8.) These movements are conceived by the German physiologists to be as much spontaneous and a property of life as the movements of the infusorial animalcule. But Brongniart has shown that the granules which issue from the pollen of plants, when it explodes in water, are equally endowed with an automatic motion ; and Brown, that all impalpable molecules, whether organic or inorganic, are endowed with the same kindGENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. G4 are seen moving with different velocities in different parts, and taking retrograde or lateral motions, according as mechanical obstructions or those arising from contractions in the vessels may happen to retard or change their motion. They are heavier than the coagulating lymph, and of course heavier than the serum; which is known by their falling to the bottom of the cup when blood is taken out of a blood-vessel. This allows the coagu- lating lymph to be seen more or less at the top, and produces on the surface various hues, according as the red globules subside. When they subside much, the buff is then of a yellowish colour ; when the buff is thin at the top, then we have the red globules shining through it, of various colours, such as blue, purple *,&c., according to the reflection or refraction, which is according to the depths. * The blood in the veins, when near the skin, gives the same hues. of inherent or self motion, by virtue of which they exhibit a variety of gyratory evolu- tions when placed on the surface of liquids. If, therefore, these observations of Brown are correct, the idea of an intestine vital motion in the globules of the blood must be abandoned; but as the Germans have attributed a variety of effects to this cause, it will be necessary to revert to this subject when speaking of the circulation of the blood. Majendie says that a uumber of globules are developed in the serum of the blood by the action of galvanism very similar to those of the blood (Phys., p. 234.) ; and a simi- lar result was experienced by Prevost and Dumas on applying galvanism to the white of an egg. (Ann. de Chim., xxiii. 53, and Bib. Univ., Juillet 1821.) Raspail regards the globules not as organized particles, but as particles of albumen undissolved in, or precipitated from, the serum, and has attempted to show that albumen, dissolved in an excess of hydrochloric acid, forms minute spherical and equal globules, scarcely distin- guishable from the globules of the blood. “ If a portion of the albumen of a pullet’s egg,” he says, “be placed in an excess of hydrochloric acid, it will at first form a while coagulant, but presently it will be dissolved by the acid acquiring at the same time a violet colour, which passes into blue. If the hydrochloric acid be then poured off, and left to evaporate spontaneously, it will deposit a white powder, which, when ob- served by the microscope, will be seen to consist of spherical globules, of uniform size, and which the most practised eye might well mistake for the globules of the blood.” The same phenomenon is also noticed when lactic acid is saturated by barytes; “the precipitation in this case is composed of beautiful globules, some of which even show a nucleus in their centre.” (Org. Chem., transl. by Dr. Townsend, p. 406.) Dr. Elliotson observes, that “ one takes breath while reading M. Raspa'l, after the strange and vary- ing statements of so many experimenters, especially of those who use microscopes" (Physiology, p. 148.); but the justness of this eulogium may I think be questioned. M. Raspail has entirely failed to account, 1st, for the colouring matter of the red glo- bules ; 2nd, for their precipitation; 3rd, for the difficulty with which they are regene- rated, although the regeneration of the albumen is easily effected; 4th, for their im- portance in relation to the function of respiration, and the production of animal heat; 5th for their various forms and sizes in different animals, and their uniformity in these respects in the same animal; and 6th, for the presence of iron in one and not in the other.]65 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. In healthy blood, however, the eoagulum is commonly formed before the red part has time to subside; but we may always observe that the lower part of the mass contains more red globules than the top, and will sink more quickly in water. The red globules do not retain their glo- bular form in every fluid, but are dissolved and diffused through the whole; and this probably happens sooner in water than in any other fluid. The red globules are not soluble in the serum of the blood, yet it is not the only fluid in which they are insoluble; the urine does not dissolve them ; but urine might be supposed to be principally serum. Water itself, however, ceases to dissolve them when saturated with vmany of the neutral salts, or with some of the acids. The red globules are not soluble in water mixed with common sea-salt, sal ammoniac, Epsom-salt, nitre (potassse nitras), Glauber’s-salt (soda; sulphas), soluble tartar (potassa tartras), Lymington-tartar; nor in the fixed vegetable alkalies when saturated with fixed air. As they do not dissolve in the ■ serum or urine, it might be imagined to arise from the neutral salts > which they contain; but I should believe that neither of these fluids has a quantity sufficient for that purpose. The vitriolic acid does not dissolve the red globules when diluted so ‘low as to have less pungency of taste than common vinegar. The red globules are soluble in common vinegar, but take a longer :ime to dissolve than in water; and they also dissolve much sooner when ■the vinegar is diluted with water. In muriatic acid, diluted so as to be more pungent to the tongue, and three times stronger than the vinegar, the red globules are not dissolved, but lose their red colour : by adding more water to the red globules, they dissolve; lemon juice dissolves the red globules: all this, however, throws but little light on this part of the blood. When the globules are put into water they dissolve, which destroys their globular form; it is therefore the serum, and probably the coagu- lating lymph also, when circulating, which confines them to this form; but when the serum is diluted with water they dissolve in it; and this appears to take place at once, as quick as water unites with water". I could not observe that it was like the solution of a solid body, as a salt, :or instance: a drop of blood requires about two drops of water added to it to dissolve its globules: if urine also be diluted with water, the * [According to Dr. Young, the outer coat only, or colouring matter, is dissolved by water, in consequence of which the central (fibrinous) nucleus becomes spherical, and specifically lighter than water. Sir Everard Home states that the globule loses §rd in diameter, and frds in substance, whenever it is deprived of its colouring matter by so- lution.]66 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. globules dissolve in it. However, after standing some days the globules dissolve both in serum and urine; but I think later in the last. When the globules are not dissolved in any fluid the whole looks muddy, not transparent; but when dissolved in wTater the whole is a fine clear red. What are the properties of the serum, and those other substances that preserve the red part of the blood in a regular form, I do not know®. The red globules, when dried in the serum, and moistened in the same, do not again resume their regular form; nor do they dissolve in it, as they do in water, but form rather a sort of flakes. As the serum and solutions of many kind of salts do not dissolve the red globules, 1 conceived that it might be possible for them to resume their globular figure (after having been dissolved in water,) by adding such a quantity of serum as to make the proportion of water very little; but I could not produce this effect, although the menstruum was such as not to dissolve fresh globules. The red globules not dissolving in the serum, nor in the coagulating lymph, become separable from those parts when circulating, and there- fore may be prevented from going where the coagulating lymph passes in a natural state, which they certainly do not*, and which also is the reason why they are so perfectly retained in the coagulum when extra- vasated. The globules, besides being heavier than the serum, and the coagulating lymph, appear to have more substance; for they do not lose so much upon drying, and when dried with serum they give a kind of roughness to the surface, w'hich serum has not by itself. They appear not to be a natural part of the blood, but, as it were, composed out of it, or composed in it, and not with it; for they seem to be formed later in life than either of the other two; thus we see, while the chick is in the egg, and the heart beating, it then contains a transparent fluid be- fore any red globules are formed, which we may suppose to be the se- rum, and the lymph. The globules do not appear to be formed in those parts of the blood already produced, but rather to rise up in the sur- * This will be more fully explained when on the colour of parts from the blood. * [Many circumstances induce the belief, that the cohesion of the colouring matter of the globules to their central fibrinous nuclei is a manifestation of vitality. In ady- namic fevers, in cases of death from poisoning, and under many other circumstances, this cohesion is destroyed, in consequence of which the colouring matter of the blood transudes through the coats of the veins, or else exudes into the serous cavities. Under such circumstances also, the blood, when abstracted from the body, instead of coagu- lating, is apt to let fall a pulverulent deposit, and to pass rapidly into a state of putre- faction. I have already observed that the catamenial fluid is devoid of red globules, and consists merely of a solution oi colouring matter.)67 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. rounding parts*. It would also seem to be formed with more difficulty chan either of the other two parts. When an animal has lost a consi- • Thus, on some of the first appearances of the chick we find a zone surrounding it, romposed of dots, which contain red globules, but not in vessels, and which zone be- comes vascular afterwards *. Vide Plate XVI. * [This account has been amply confirmed by Dcellinger and Wolff, who noticed the ormation of blood-globules in the chick previously to the existence of either heart or vessels. Similar phenomena have also been related by Gruithuisen and Kaltenbrun- aer, who observed sanguineous puncta to arise in inflamed and regenerating parts, which at first were placed in regular order, but afterwards united, so as to represent, nnd actually to constitute, new vessels, which in the further process of development ormed interconnexions with each other, and with those which previously existed. (Tiedemann’s Phys., trans. by Lane and Gully, p. 150.) Having already adverted to M. Raspail’s account of the origin of the red globules, 1 would here further observe that these bodies’are probably formed much earlier in the process of sanguification (note, p. 64). MM. Prevost and Dumas detected globules in the chyle of rabbits, hedgehogs, and dogs, which they conceived might form the rudi- ments of the future blood globules; for although the chyliferous globules have not all the same diameter, yet the largest among them are smaller than those of the blood, md consequently may admit of a further enlargement by the addition of their coloured envelopes. (Journ. des Prog, des Sci. Med.) Leuretand Lassaigne affirm that they have discovered fibrinous globule seven in the chyme, in the stomach, and still more numer- ously in the duodenum, which globules they say exactly resembled those of the chyle, and ran together so as to form fibrils, precisely in the same manner as the globules of the blood. (Op. ut supra.) The striking analogy which exists between the chyle and the blood unquestionably must be allowed to be in favour of this opinion. If an animal be killed three or four hours after a full meal, and the chyle be collected, it will be found to exhibit an opakc milk-white colour if the food has consisted of fat animal food, opaline if the diet has consisted of animal food without fat, and transparent if it has merely consisted of vege- tables ; after it has coagulated, the serum exhibits the same general properties as the serum of the blood, and the coagulum consists of pure fibrin, of a slightly roseate hue. Still the composition of chyle and blood is not exactly the same; for, like the globules, the albumen and fibrin of chyle differ in some unimportant respects from those of blood, and appear, in short, to be in an incipient state, requiring some further elaboration {which is probably effected in the lungs,) to render their conversion into blood com- plete. (Prout, Bridgewater Treatise, p. 520, and Ann. of Phil., xiii. 12.) The coagulum which forms from lymph collected from the thoracic duct of an animal which has fasted for several days, exhibits so deep a roseate hue as nearly to approach that of the blood; and, like it, it is converted to scarlet by oxygen, and to purple by carbonic acid gas. (Majendie, Physiologic, 4erne edit.: Brux., p. 220.) I am not aware, however, that this fact has ever been observed of chyle collected in a pure state from the lacteals. Tiedcmann and Gmelin have asserted" that pure chyle has very little disposition to coagulate, and that it contains no globular or reddish particles previously to its having passed the mesenteric glands : but as these particles instantly appear after the chyle has passed this point, and particularly after it has become mixed with the lymphatic fluid proceeding from the spleen, they conceive it not improbable that the globules are formed in one or other of these organs. (Rccherches sur la Digestion.) The opinion that the red globules are elaborated in the spleen is of very old date. It does not, however, appear to be well founded, for after the most accurate microsco- K 2GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. G8 derable quantity of its blood, the other parts seem to be sooner made up than the red globules ; the animal looks long pale ; but this is only con- jecture, for we have no method of knowing the quantity of the other parts. From the above account it appears that whatever may be their utility in the machine, the red globules certainly are not of such universal use as the coagulating lymph, since they are not to be found in all animals, nor so early in those that have them ; nor are they pushed into the ex- treme arteries, where we must suppose the coagulating lymph reaches; neither do they appear to be so readily formed. I'll is being the case, we must conclude them not to be the important part of the blood in contributing to growth, repair, etc. Their use would seem to be con- nected with strength, for the stronger the animal the more it has of the red globules ; and the strength acquired by exercise increases their pro- portion, not only in the whole body, but, as we shall find, occasions them to be carried into parts where, in either a quiet or debilitated state of the animal, they were not allowed to go; the use, therefore, of a part, and the quantity of red globules passing through it, are probably pretty well proportioned to each other. This effect is so well known to feeders of young animals for the table of the epicure, that bleeding, to lessen the quantity, is immediately practised; as also debarring the creature from exercise, in order to prevent their increasing, and being carried so far from the heart as they otherwise would be. These three substances are of different specific gravities : the serum, or fluid part, is the lightest; the solid part, or lymph, is the next in order ; and the red globules are the heaviest. This is seen in such blood pical observations of the blood of a dog whose spleen had been removed several months previously, Dr. Babington was unable to discover any deficiency of red particles, as compared with the blood of another dog in perfect health whose blood was examined at the same time. (Med.-Chir. Trans., xvi. 318.) The idea that they are formed in the mesenteric glands is rebutted, first, by tbe testimony of Leuret and Lassaigne, before mentioned ; and, secondly, by the fact that many of the lacteals enter the thoracic duct without passing through the glands, and yet contain as many globular particles as those that do. Upon the whole, therefore, I am induced to believe that rudimentary globules are formed during the earlier periods of digestion, and that these are afterwards per- fected in the system by means with which at present we are wholly unacquainted. This appears to me to accord better with the general law* of progressive development which characterizes the whole organic world, than to suppose that they are perfectly formed at once by any individual organ. We see a gradually ascending scale of animated beings, a progressive formation of the different parts of each individual organism during the different periods of its growth, and a successive elaboration of its various proximate principles before they are applied to their final purposes in the ceconomy. It seems, therefore, reasonable to suppose that the formation of the globules is governed by the same law.]69 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. is separates readily into its constituent parts. The serum swims upon :he top, and the red globules fall to the bottom, while the lymph would oe suspended between the two if the red part were not retained in the .vmph, from its coagulation: but this constant effect is no absolute proof of the difference in the specific gravities of the serum and coagu- lating lymph; for we still do not know but that the red globules, which are evidently the heaviest, make the coagulating lymph to sink in the serum. To ascertain this circumstance I made the following experiment: i t took some blood, which separated easily into its constituent parts; I ::hen suspended in a portion of serum a piece of coagulating lymph, • which was free from red globules, and it sunk to the bottom, but not very quickly : this proves that the lymph, when coagulated, is somewhat heavier than the serum. I then took as much of the bottom of the coagulum containing the red globules, and put it into the serum along with the lymph, to see which of them sunk the fastest, and found that the piece with the red globules sunk much more quickly than the other; I should think three times as fast. The serum itself is much heavier than common water, for when the parts before mentioned were put into common water, in the same manner as into the serum, they both sunk much faster, and there was not that disproportion between the times of their falling as in the serum. But if the blood has a strong disposition to coagulate, and is not in large quantity, it will coagulate soon, and involve the red globules; yet there will then be fewest at top, and they will be more and more crowded towards the bottom; though there would appear in such blood to be no coagulating lymph at top free from the red globules, yet in most of it a thin pellicle may be found, which can be pulled off. I have already observed that the whole mass of blood, taken together, in a great variety of classes of animals, appears of a red colour ; and I shall now further remark, that it is of a much deeper colour in some classes of animals than in others, which I believe arises from a greatef number of red globules being contained in a given quantity of lymph and serum. This, I think, evidently appears to be the case when we examine a portion of the blood itself belonging to different classes of animals. In the class called quadruped I believe it has the deepest body of colour ; I am not, however, certain that it is not nearly as deep in some birds; and even in the same class of animals it appears to have a much greater body of colour in some species than in others. Thus, it appears to be deeper in the hare than in the rabbit. It is the red part itself which makes the difference in depth of colour in different parts of the animal; and the common mode of judging is by the colour ol the parts in different classes of animals that have red blood ;70 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF TIIE BLOOD. on these we generally form our opinion ; for though in some animals which have white muscles the liver, kidney, and heart may be nearly as red as in others whose muscles are universally as red, yet, as the ( muscles are white, there must be a deficiency in the red globules on the whole; for if these parts which are red in animals having white ‘ muscles, as the heart, liver, etc., have no more than their due proportion with other animals that are universally red, there must be in such ani- ’ mals a deficiency of red globules on the whole. This idea may be gra- dually carried on, from the animal which has fewest red muscles, to those whose muscles are universally red and of a high colour; even in the same species the colour of all the muscles is not equally high. ;■ What are called different temperaments have their muscles redder or i paler; the darker the colour of the skin, hair, etc. of any one species, i I believe the blood is in proportion redder. When a part, of whatever ; kind, is red, it takes place in consequence of its vessels being large enough to carry red blood; and therefore, when we find a muscle red we know it arises from the same cause. When a part, on the contrary, is white, as a tendon, it is because its vessels are small, and have little or none of the red blood passing along them, although it may probably be as vascular as the muscle to which it belongs *; and those animals that have no red blood have white flesh universallyf, and this, probably, no less vascular than the flesh which receives red blood. The blood in the same animals is not equally deep-coloured in every part; that is, every part of the body has not its blood equally loaded with red globules, or, at least, it is not equally red, even in parts of the same construction and use, such as muscles; this arises from the red globules not being carried into those parts in equal proportion: these are the white parts of animals ; such muscles, in animals used for food, are called white meat. In animals which have these muscles there is commonly not so much red blood as in others where these parts are more universally red; and perhaps the red part of the blood is not pushed so far in them as in those which have it in a larger proportion. There are some animals, however, which have a larger quantity of red globules in the blood, yet have some of their muscles of a lighter colour than others: ’ * Conceiving that the amnion of a calf might have but few vessels, I injected a piece of it with quicksilver, first drying its edges all round on the edge of a dish, while the middle of it lay in the dish, in water; but the whole became one mass of vessels. The intention of this experiment was to see, if possible, the communication between the ar- teries and the veins j but the mass of vessels prevented every view of this kind. f The redness of the blood is of great use towards the knowledge of diseases; many inflammations are known by it when on the skin, and oven the kind of inflammation is distinguished by the kind of redness: also putrid diseases are distinguished when the blood is extravasated. The quantity in the face is a sign of health or disease.GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 71 even in the human subject all the muscles are not equally red ; the mus- cular part of the intestines, for instance, is not equal in redness to the heart, and many other muscles. To what is this owing ? Does it arise from mechanic^ causes ? Do the vessels become suddenly so small be- yond a certain limit as not to allow the red blood to pass ? or are the other parts of the blood less tenacious ? Is the red part in such not allowed to go so far ? or is it a separating principle in the vessels them- selves ? Many circumstances in life either increase the quantity of the red globules, or make them more universal in the muscles of the same •animal; thus, exercise increases the quantity of the red globules and • the red colour of muscles, while there is the same quantity on the whole; or perhaps we should rather say that indolence decreases the quantity: : this is particularly remarkable in woman; and probably the whiteness of the muscles of young animals may arise from the same cause; I sus- pect, however, something more ; I conceive it arises from the principle of life, influenced by accidental or mechanical causes, for the muscles of young animals are increasing in colour till they arrive at the age of ma- turity, and not afterwards, although they continue to use exercise. Diseases lessen the quantity of the red globules, and often render their i distribution unequal. From the above account we may reason, upon the whole, that the animals which arc reddest, or have the greatest number of red parts, have their blood furnished -with the greatest proportion of red globules0. One would naturally suppose that the red globules were of the same colour everywhere in the same animal; this last is perhaps the case; but now we find that these globules are of different hues in the different systems of vessels in the same animal. In the more perfect animals, where there are two systems of vessels carrying the blood, viz. arteries and veins, the blood is not of the same species of red in both of them in the same animal; one red is the scarlet, which takes place in the ar- teries of the body, the other is the modena, which takes place in the veins; and as every part of the body possesses such systems of vessels, |- 4 [This mode of reasoning is extremely questionable. It may be doubted, for ex- ample, whether any degree of exercise svould ever occasion the wing muscles of certain birds to assume the dark tint which characterizes the muscles of the legs, and e converso. According to Prevost and Dumas, birds are more vascular than mammiferous quadru- peds, and possess a greater number of red globules; and yet there can be no doubt that the colour of their flesh is generally paler. The same observation is equally applicable to the young of all animals. Bichat has endeavoured to show that the colour of muscles ! depends on some foreign substance combined with their fibres; but this colour is cer- tainly not essential to their perfect structure, for the lightest-coloured muscles are often | those which are most contractile. (Bichat, Anal. Gen., ii. 327.)]GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 72 the parts which are visited by red blood must have a mixture of both. As there are two circulations in every animal above the insect, one in the lungs in those that breathe air, or in the gills, as in fish, in those that breathe water, and the other the general circulation to the body in both, we find the two colours of the globules not corresponding to the same system of vessels in each. The scarlet is the venal blood in the lungs, which afterwards becomes the arterial in the body, where it is commonly seen, and hence it is called the arterial blood: the modena is the venal blood of the body, and is the blood also of the pulmonary artery; but as it is commonly seen in the veins only of the body, it is called the venal blood; the scarlet colour, therefore, is acquired in the lungs, and the modena in the body. There are so many proofs of this that it hardly requires any illustration; yet many circumstances and experiments may be brought in direct proof of it. I bled a man in the temporal artery and in the vein of the arm at the same time, each into a phial. The blood of the artery was of a florid red, and the venal was dark. The arterial kept its colour, and did not separate its serum ; but this was singular, for in others it does separate its serum and coagu- lum : the venal separated into its constituent parts as usual. Although this, however, is a general rule, yet there are many excep- tions ; for we find in many cases the scarlet colour of the blood in the arteries not changed in the veins, and under some circumstances the modena taking place in the arteries, as well as where blood is extrava- sated in the body*. • [In ordinary bleeding it is not uncommon to find the blood which issues from the vein of a bright arterial tint; or sometimes the stream appears to be composed of dark- and light-coloured blood in nearly equal proportions, as if the artery and vein had both been punctured. This is particularly observable in excited states of the circulation, when at the same time the function of respiration is carried on without impediment. Baglivi noticed this appearance of the blood in bleeding patients who were labouring under hectic fever; but it is certainly much more frequent in rheumatic attacks and after brisk exercise. Sometimes this appearance is produced by the warm bath (Tltack- rah, p. 181), and in a less degree by warm climates; sometimes by fits, paroxysms of palpitation and syncope, and not unfrequently by common inflammation and fever. Broughton found the blood in the veins of animals which had been made to respire oxygen gas as florid as in the arteries. Thackrah remarked that a similar effect was generally produced by a full dose of prussic acid. It would seem, therefore, either that the blood is unduly oxygenized in the lungs, or else that it is hurried through the circulation with too great rapidity to allow it to undergo the usual changes in the periphery of the body. The peripheral and pulmonary circulations being antagonized to each other, either of these causes may produce the effect by destroying the balance which neces- sarily subsists between them in a normal state: besides which, it is extremely probable that this balance may sometimes be disturbed through the mere influence of the nervous system, independently of any alteration in the physical conditions under which the vital functions arc performed. Thus, Dupuytren found that the blood was only imper-GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 73 It becomes a question how the change is produced in each. More attention has been paid to the mode in which it gets the scarlet colour than the modena (though both probably are of equal importance), because it was believed that life in some degree depended on this colour. fectly arterialized in the lungs when the eighth pair of nerves was divided; and, as the counterpart of this fact, it is notorious that the blood is not venalised in inflamed parts. There is no improbability, therefore, in supposing that the whole function of nutrition may be more or less partially suspended for a time, in consequence of which the blood may pass through the capillaries of the body without undergoing any change, or at least any change commensurate with the effect produced in the lungs. It more frequently happens, however, that the blood is black in the arteries than red ; in the veins; this appearance depending on the reverse of those causes which have been i above mentioned. Thus, during the congestive stage of fevers the blood exhibits a black appearance arising from the remora of the circulation. The same thing also happens in cholera, apoplexy, epilepsy, asphyxia, poisoning from opium, and under a variety of other circumstances where the respiration is impeded or the circulation ma- terially retarded. The principal points of difference which distinguish arterial front venous blood are comprehended in the following table; Arterial. Venous. Specific gravity. ..{Davy, Phil. Trans. 1814.) 1051 1049 Capacity for heat. (76.) 913 903 Temperature.... •(/&•) 1° more. 1° less. Carbon r 50-2 55-7 Oxygen Nitrogen ■ {Macaire and Marcet, op.cil., p.400.) J 26-3 16-3 21-7 16-2 Hydrogen l 6-6 64 Electricity .{Bellingeri, Exper. in Elect. Sang.)...... less. more. Colour / bright J brownish or 1 scarlet. | modena red. Odour (Magendie, Physiologie.) strong. faint. Coagulation.... ..( Thackrah.) quicker. slower. Clot to serum... ••(»■) more. less. Fibrin ..{Alison, Physiology.) more. less. Carbonic acid... ..{Stevens, op. cit.) none. appreciable quantities. f great sup f weak sup- Functions .(Kay on the Physiology of Asphyxia,)... 4 porter of 4 porter of life. ( life. Besides these differences, there are probably some others, arising from the different degrees of vitality possessed by the two bloods; but these can only be investigated in their effects upon the solids. In connexion with this subject it may not be improper to advert to the diversities of the blood in different vessels of the same body. Thackrah found that the portal blood of dogs differed from blood from the jugular veins in containing much less albumen and haunatosine, in coagulating more rapidly, in having a muddy brownish colour, as if it had been defectively elaborated, and in some other minor particulars. {Op. cit., p. 70.) Stoker made similar observations. {Op. cit., part ii. p. 31.) Now it must be manifest that these remarks are only applicable to blood from different parts of the venous system. In the arteries it must be the same everywhere ; but in the veins it must be continually liable to variation, in consequence of the abstractions which arc74 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. Many substances change the colour of the blood from the modena to the scarlet: respirable air has this effect, and many of the neutral salts, more especially nitre, which occasions the florid colour in meat that ha* been salted also with sea-salt. But as the air produces this effect in the living body, and as we find that without air the animal dies, great stress has been laid on this change of colour, whereas it should only be considered as a sign that the blood has been in contact with the air, but not that it must be fit for the purpose of circulation. This effect takes place readily under many circumstances : it takes place out of the circulation as readily as when in it; as readily when blood is coagu- lated as before; it takes place in blood whose coagulating principle has been destroyed, as by lightning, sudden death, &c.: it does not, there- fore, depend upon life. It is the cause only of this change in the colour by respirable air which becomes an object of consideration; for if we suppose the change of colour in the red globules to be all that respira- tion is to perform, we shall make the red globules the most essential part of the blood, whereas they are the least so. Most probably the effect of air upon the blood is greatest on the coagulating lymph; and made by the different secretory organs. (See M. Le Gallois’ Essay, entitled “ Le Sang cst-il identique dans tons les vaisseaux quit parcourt ?" Par. An. xi.) Allied also to this subject is the alteration which the blood undergoes in regard to its che- mical constitution during one and the same venesection. This point has been already ad- verted to in reference to the diminution of fibrin (see note, p. 37) ; but it remains to be noticed that the quantity of serum is proportionally increased under the same circum- stances, probably because the absorbent system is roused to increased action by what- ever depresses the vital powers (Pharmacologia, by J. A. Paris, M.D., 5th edit. p. 174.), or else because the first evacuation of blood causes the return into the larger vessels of much of the thinner parts of this fluid previously divergent in the invisible capillaries. Such at least are the opinions of Davy (De Sang., 1814) and Schroeder Van der Kolk (Com. de Sang. Coag., 1820, 1. c.), and the same views have more recently been adopted by Dr. Alison (Physiology, p. 58.). The attenuation of the blood in these cases has been assigned as the cause why it coagulates more rapidly the nearer an animal ap- proaches to the state of syncope. Prater found that blood which was diluted with equal parts of water coagulated only one minute sooner than a similar quantity not diluted, but that dilution with one half, one third, one sixth, or even one tenth of serum accele- rated concretion at least six minutes; from which facts he argued “ that dilution takes place by a provision of nature, and that such dilution is the principal if not the sole cause why the blood flowing from a dying animal coagulates so quickly.” (Op. cit. pp. 109, 111, 114.) Now it is not to be disputed that repeated venesections, at consider- able intervals of time, will have the effect of increasing the tenuity of the blood (see note, p. 44.); hut it is extremely doubtful whether this effect is uniformly or even ge- nerally produced during a single venesection, however copious. Thackrah did not find this to be the case, but, on the contrary, that the fluid parts of the blood were often di- minished in the last cup. The same thing also occurred to Prater, whose experiments, however, are open to many sources of fallacy ; and, even though we should admit the fact, yet it would not explain all the circumstances of the case, for timidity and alarm not uu» frequently occasion the first portions of blood to coagulate more rapidly than the last.i o GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. rr this conjecture is rendered more likely when we consider that in animals - which have no red globules of any kind respiration is as essential to their existence as in any other, and -we find that the blood may lose this effect and yet retain its salutary effects in the constitution. Thus, when any large artery is tied, the parts beyond must be supplied with blood that shall have lost its florid colour; and in the chick in the egg the blood in the arterial system is dark, while in the veins of the tem- porary lungs it is florid. We are led by daily experience to observe : that the dark blood taken from a vein becomes red on that surface - which is exposed to the common atmosphere, and that if it be shaken in a phial with air the whole becomes red*. If blood also be allowed to s stand exposed to the air and to coagulate, its upper surface will become . of the scarlet red, while the bottom remains dark, or even of a darker colour than common venal blood, because it contains a greater quantity of red globules. If the coagulated blood be inverted, and the bottom * This does not arise from motion, for fill the phial with blood without air, and put into it glass-beads, and shake them, so as to give it motion, the colour will not be i altered. while of three portions of blood taken from a slaughtered animal, the third is often ob- served to be slower in coagulating than the second: besides, “ Pithing, poisoning by prussic acid, and the injection of air into the veins, show as strongly as death from haemorrhage the last-drawn blood to concrete with greatest rapidity.” (Thackrah, p. 139.) I conceive, therefore, that these differences in the coagulating power of the blood may best be referred to the varying conditions of the vital powers. The following Table exhibits the differences of time in regard to the blood’s con- cretion : 1st Cup. 2nd Cup. Srd Cup. / // 1 10 1 30 1 10 2 10 / n 0 40 1 00 0 50 1 45 / // From a slaughtered sheep Ditto 0 30 Ditto 0 55 From a slaughtered ox 3 40 6 45 0 55 Ditto 2 29 8 30 0 30 Ditto 2 50 1 10 2 15 Ditto 2 30 1 35 1 10 Ditto 1 30 0 50 0 20 From a stuck horse 11 10 9 55 3 20 Accordingly, Thackrah found that in venesection syncope reduced the time required for concretion from a' to 2', or from 90" to 40". (Op. cit., p. 132.) Blood taken during the actual state of syncope rarely separates its serum, and in proportion as an animal approaches to this state, the separative change is less and less; thus, from a stuck calf the first portion of blood (which was taken on the infliction of the wound,) yielded 412-3 serum to 587*7 crassamentum, while in the second portion (which was taken when the haemorrhage had naarly ceased,) the proportions were a* 361*7 to 630-3.]GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 76 exposed to the air, this part will also assume the scarlet red, and be- come even redder than that exposed before, because it contains a greater number of red globules, which undergo this change. The red colour will even penetrate to some depth, which shows that the effect can be produced through a thick substance. We often find the vessels of the lungs full of blood, and the whole substance of the lungs of a dark colour; but if we inflate the lungs the cells will become of a florid red, the small vessels on those cells, both arteries and veins, having the colour of their blood changed by the air in the cells affecting it through their coats. We find the same thing on the surface of flesh or muscles, liver, &c. We may observe in the gills of fish that they retain their florid colour as long as the fish is fresh, from being exposed to the air, for they naturally have the air applied externally in the act of breath- ing. It is from these facts we reason respecting the scarlet colour which the blood acquires in the lungs but loses in the body, and why therefore it is found of the modena colour in the veins, and of course in the right side of the heart and larger trunks of the pulmonary artery. As the blood is florid in the pulmonary veins as far as we can trace them, we reasonably suppose that it acquires this appearance in the small vessels of the lungs, and as the lungs constantly take in fresh air, we conceive that by exposure to the air (perhaps both in arteries and veins) it acquired the scarlet colour; for we shall see that the air, or the influence of the air, is capable of passing through animal substance. In the living body, when the breathing is imperfect, we can plainly see the change taking place in the colour of the blood in proportion as the breathing becomes more perfect, of which the following experi- ments are proofs. They were made with a view to observe the motion of the heart, by producing an artificial breathing, and exhibited a vast variety of satisfactory phenomena, of which the change in the colour of the blood in the lungs was one. I invented a pair of double bellows, each of which had two openings, but their actions were reversed: two of the openings were inclosed in one pipe or nozzle, and the other two wrere on the sides. The lower chamber had its valve placed exactly similar to that of the common bellows ; but it had also a valve at the nozzle, which did not allow any air to enter there. The upper half had a valve placed at the nozzle, which allowed the air to enter but not to escape, and the opening on the upper side allowed the air to escape but not to enter; so that, on dilating the bellows, the upper side or chamber drew in the air by the nozzle only, and at the same time the under chamber drew in its air by the side only. On closing the bellows, or expelling this air, the air drawn in by the nozzle passed out at the opening on the upper side,GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 77 and the air that was drawn in by the under side passed out by the nozzle. ! By this means I could, by fixing the nozzle into the trachea, draw the air out of the lungs into the upper chamber of the bellows, and at the same time draw fresh air into the lower chamber: on emptying these cavities of their air, the pure air in the lower chamber passed into the lungs, and that which had been just taken from the lungs into the upper i chamber passed into the open air alternately. The action of these bel- 1 lows, though double, is exactly as simple as breathing itself; and they (appear to me to be superior to any invention made since for the same purpose3. I fixed the nozzle of these bellows into the trachea of a dog, and immediately began the artificial breathing. I then removed r the sternum and cartilages, and opened the pericardium. While I con- t tinued the artificial breathing, I observed that the blood in the pulmo- nary veins, coming from the lungs, the left auricle, the aorta, &c., was florid or dark just as I threw air or not into the lungs. I cut off a piece of the lungs, and found that the colour of the blood which came from the wound corresponded with the above effects. When I threw air into the lungs, so as to render the blood florid in the pul- monary veins, two kinds of blood issued from the wound; and when I left off blowing, the whole blood which passed out by the wound was of the dark colour. If the air is confined in the lungs of a quadruped, it s soon loses its power over the blood, which remains dark, or has the appearance of becoming dark, because dark-coloured blood is thrown in and it undergoes no change ; but if the same experiment is made on an amphibious animal it is a considerable time before the whole blood be- comes dark, because in such animals the lungs are a reservoir of air, which of course continues its influence over the blood for a longer time. * [The principal inconvenience of this bellows consists in the extreme difficulty of re- gulating the artificial respiration. The researches of Magendie and Leroy have fully established the fact of the great liability of the air-cells to become ruptured when the quantity of air impelled is either too great or too rapidly effected, in consequence of which the pulmonary tissue is rendered emphysematous, and the chances of recovery much diminished; and to so great a degree are the lungs exposed to this danger, that it has even been doubted whether the proportion of recoveries from asphyxia has not been considerably reduced since the introduction of this means of resuscitation. To obviate this inconvenience, M. Leroy has recommended the adaptation of an arc of degrees to the handles of Hunter’s bellows, graduated in such a manner as at once to show the proportions requisite for the different ages of life, to which are added move- able pipes to correspond, so as only to allow of the escape of the air in such quantities and in such periods of time as shall closely represent natural respiration. There can be no doubt that this is a very great improvement upon the old bellows, and ought uni- versally to be adopted in all institutions for the recovery of drowned persons. (Mugendie's Journ. dt Phijs., vii. viii. xi.)]78 OENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. This experiment I have repeated upon several animals, and commonly for half an hour at a time, which was sufficient to allow me to make my observations with coolness and accuracy. In this part of the experi- ment it was curious to see the coronary arteries turn darker and darker, becoming like the veins which run on each side of them, and on blow- ing again resume gradually a brighter colour, till they became of a flo- rid red. As respiration was generally prevented in the first part of the experiment, the blood was found at first wholly of a dark colour, and the heart large and hardly acting; but on throwing into the lungs fresh air, the heart began to act, upon which both auricles and ventricles be- came gradually smaller; then by stopping the respiration they again became larger and larger! The diminution of the heart’s motion upon stopping respiration does not depend upon the immediate impression of improper blood on the left auricle and ventricle as a sedative, but upon the sympathetic con- nexion which exists between the heart and lungs (one action ceasing the other also ceases) ; which sympathy is established, because if the heart were to continue acting it would send improper blood into the body, by which it can be supported only a little while. The right au- ricle and ventricle also cease acting, although not so early, and for the same reason; because on the cessation of the function of the lungs the blood cannot receive any benefit in passing through them. These actions and cessations are all dependent on life and the con- nexion of one action with another. It is upon the same principle that the first effect of recovery is the act of breathing11. * [The cessation of the heart’s action, in cases of asphyxia, would appear to depend, 1st, On the circulation of black blood through its substance, by which its irritability is more or less impaired; 2nd, On the effect of black blood on the brain producing universal depression,—lower- ing still further the tone of the heart, and paralysing the muscles of respiration, as well as the pulmonary capillaries; 3rd, On the insufficient supply of blood which is sent to the left side of the heart in consequence of the paralysis of the pulmonary capillaries. We may therefore trace a sort of reaction in a circle among the vital organs, each con- curring towards the same effect. What is the exact order of their cessation, or the pre- cise share which each of them has in producing the ultimate effect, is not easily assigned. In syncope the series of phenomena would appear to commence with an impression on the brain, which is thence propagated to the heart, and thence to the lungs ■, but in asphyxia the first effect is probably felt by the heart, the second by the brain, and the third by the lungs. Goodwyn conceived that the heart ceased to act because the left side, being only arterio-contractile, was incapable of being stimulated by venous blood ; but this idea was fully disproved by the experiments of Bichat, which render it certain that the blood sti- mulates the ventricles not by its quality, but by its bulk. (Goodwyn on the Counex. of Life with Kesp. pp. 82, 83; and Bichat, Sur la Vic ct la Mart.) On the other hand, Bichat's79 GliNERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. The following eases illustrate this still further. I bled a gentleman in the temporal artery, while in a fit of apoplexy ; he breathed seemingly with great difficulty; the blood flowed very freely, and he continued to bleed longer than we commonly find from the same wound, which made me suspect that the artery had lost some of its contracting power. The blood was as dark as venal blood ; he became somewhat relieved, and his breathing more free. About two hours afterwards we opened the same orifice, which still bled freely, but now the blood was become florid as usual. Mrs. , in Norris-street, Haymarket, fell into an apoplectic fit, in which she was insensible respecting ideas : her breathing was very imperfect, attended with a rattling in her throat, and a snort; the pulse was very steady, but rather slow. I opened the temporal artery, which bled very freely. But I observed that when she breathed freely the blood from the artery became red; and when her breathing was diffi- ; cult, or when she hardly breathed at all, the blood became dark, and this alternated several times in the course of bleeding; yet all this made but little alteration in the pulse. In many diseases of the heart, as well as of the lungs, we may often observe the same appearance. In many diseases of the heart, producing what is called angina pectoris, (the symptoms of which arise from a vast variety of causes, palpitations being commonly one,) we shall see ; that upon any exertion the heart acts with great violence, and the breathing is very laborious, or rather imperfect, not corresponding with the violence of the motion of the blood ; the face will become of a dark theory that the heart is poisoned by its ovt n blood, is disproved, first, by the experiments of Kay and Edwards, which tend to prove that venous blood contributes, although feebly, to support muscular irritability; secondly, by the post mortem appearances, which ex- hibit the right side of the heart and the whole venous system gorged with blood, while the left side is almost wholly empty, contrary to what might be expected, considering that the left ventricle ceases to act first in ordinary death; and thirdly, by the difficulty of accounting for the renewal of the contractions of the heart on the reestablishment of respiration. Resuscitation from asphyxia would, if Bichat’s doctrine were true, bo im- possible, because the very power by which it must owe the restoration of its irritability would be destroyed; whereas by admitting that the heart retains a certain portion of irritability, it is not difficult to account for the renewal of its contraction as soon as the stagnation in the pulmonary capillaries is removed. It would obviously be inconsistent with the object of these notes to enter on this subject more fully ; at the same time it appeared necessary to guard the reader against the notion, that “ these actions, or ces- sations of actions, are all dependent on life” abstractedly considered. The fact is, all the phenomena ol asphyxia primarily arise out of the interruptions to those chemical changes which atmospheric air produces on the blood, in consequence of which venous blood is circulated through the system, and produces a series of effects which are plainly capable of being analytically examined. (See Cyclop, of Pract. Med., art. Asphyxia, by Dr. Roget.)]GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF TIIE BLOOD. 80 purple colour, the patients will be nearly expiring, and nothing but rest relieves them. Of this the following case is a strong instance. A. B. when a boy could never use the same exercise that other boys did ; he could not run up stairs nor ascend a hill without being out of breath, and had almost through his whole life an irregular pulse, more especially when he used more exercise than he could well bear. Upon the least increase of motion he had a palpitation at the heart, which was often so strong as to be heard by those that were near to him ; and his becoming soon fatigued was by his acquaintance supposed to be owing to a want of spirit or courage. With all this he grew to be a well-formed and common-sized man ; but still he retained those defects, which indeed rather increased as he extended his views, and with them extended his actions. About the age of thirty he took to violent exer- cise, such as hunting, and often in the chase would be seized so ill with palpitations and almost a total suffocation that he was obliged to stop his horse and be held upon the saddle. At such times he became black in the face, and continued so as long as the fit lasted. It was often several days before he perfectly recovered his usual health, and fre- quently he could not lie down in his bed, but was obliged to sit up for breath. All these symptoms gradually increased upon him, and at times, without any violence of exercise or action, he would feel as if dying, and used so to express himself; but as the cause of these feelings did not appear to his friends, they rather treated them slightly. At last mere anxiety of mind would bring on these feelings, palpitations, and suffocations in some degree. In the winter 1780 and 1781 he hunted very violently and also caught cold, which together brought on the above-mentioned complaints with greater violence than ever. He consulted two gentlemen of the pro- fession : the palpitation, the difficulty of breathing, the great oppres- sion, with the blackness in the face (I suppose) they thought either arose from spasms, or was nervous, for they ordered cordials, such as spirit of lavender, wine, &c. I was sent for, to give a name to the disease. Upon inquiring into all the symptoms, my opinion was that there was something very wrong about the construction of the heart, viz. about the source of the circu- lation ; that the blood did not flow at any time freely through the lungs, so as to have the proper influence of the air, but much less so when he was hurried; that a stagnation of the blood in any one part about the heart would produce in some degree suffocation, and want of due in- fluence of the air upon the blood (being the same thing), which was the cause of the darkness of the face at those times; that the means to be practised were in some degree contrary to what had been advised, viz.GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 81 est, gentle bleeding, care to eat moderately, to keep the body open and ■ ae mind easy: and as he had got the better of former attacks (although lose were not so violent), I saw no absolute reason why he should not et the better of the present. Eight ounces of blood were taken from im that day, which relieved him. The symptoms still continuing, lough not so violently, I saw him once more; he lost about four or ve ounces more blood, which also relieved him, but still he did not get materially better. At last, as an addition to the above symptoms, he ecame yellow, his legs began to swell with water, and all his other omplaints gradually increased, which made me suspect that a deposit f water was begun in the chest. He was now attended by a physician ; vas blistered on his legs, which threatened a mortification, and a caustic vas applied to the pit of his stomach (I suppose for a pain there) : na- ure was at last worn out, and he died. I solicited to open him, and vas allowed. On opening the belly there was found in the abdomen a very small uantity of bloody yellowish serum. Every viscus appeared to be sound ; he gall-bladder was pretty full of bile, which was thick, but not ropy, • s if the thinner parts had been strained off; the ducts were clear, both o and from the gall-bladder. Upon opening the chest the lungs did ,ot collapse, being a good deal oedematous, but otherwise appearing ound ; there was also a little bloody serum in both sides of the chest: hese I conceive were the consequences of the last attack. The heart vas very large, and very full of blood. Upon opening the right side of he heart, I found nothing uncommon either in the heart or the pulmo- nary artery. Upon opening the left side, I found the valves of the .orta thicker and harder than usual, having at the same time the appear- ,nce of being very much shrivelled. This diseased structure of the alves accounts for every one of what may be called his original sym- itoms, and was such as to render them of very little use; the blood, herefore, must have fallen back into the cavity of the ventricle again ,t every systole of the artery. Whether this shrivelled state of the valves of the aorta was a natural ormation, or a disease, is not easily ascertained ; but if it was a disease, t must have begun much earlier in life than such diseases commonly to, as the symptoms appeared when he was young*. From this con- traction of valve we must see that it required the greatest quiet to -How the motions of the blood from the left side of the heart to go on ufficiently, and that whatever interrupted this produced a stagnation, >r an accumulation of the blood almost in every part of the body; first, n the left ventricle, then the left auricle; pulmonary veins, pulmonary * 1 have seen it at a very early period. VOL. Ill, GS‘2 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. arteries; right ventricle, right auricle, and all the veins in the body : however, a smaller quantity than usual could get to the veins of the body through the arteries, so that a kind of circulation went on. If we consider the effect arising from this construction of valves simply on mechanical principles, we cannot account for the darkness of the arterial blood, which must have passed through the lungs when there was no mechanical obstruction to respiration ; but since it happens ; that when the heart either ceases to act, or cannot get rid of its blood (which must have been the case in the present instance), respiration ceases, or is performed so imperfectly as to have nearly the same effect*, the person is in reality in a state of suffocation. Suffocation is no more than imperfect respiration, which is the cause of imperfect blood passing to and from the left side of the heart; and it is therefore immaterial, as to consequences, whether a stoppage to respiration is the first cause, or is an effect, for in either way it is the cause of imperfect blood being introduced into the arterial system. It may be difficult to account for the increased size of the heart; whether it was a mechanical effect, as the blood would be thrown back into it at every systole of the aorta and diastole of the heart, or w’hether it arose from a particular affection of that viscus. The first idea is the more natural; but it is not necessary that the cause should be of this kind, for we see every day enlarged hearts, where the symptoms have j been somew'hat similar, and yet no visible mecliauical cause existed ; 1 and indeed it is a common effect where there is an impeded circulation. J It is easy to be conceived, first, that the circulation could not, in the 1 case of this patient, be carried on regularly and perfectly ; secondly, that | a stoppage to the blood’s motion in either arteries or veins, but much more a retrograde motion of the blood in any part, must produce a stag- ' nation, which will be more or less extensive, according to the quantity j of blood passing that way ; thirdly, that if it was only in a branch of an ' artery', or vein, the stagnation would probably be only partial; but j when in an artery', or the veins of the whole body, as the aorta or vena ] cava, it must then be pretty universal; and as the retrograde motion in j the blood began in the aorta, w'e can easily trace its effects. We also I find, in imperfect constructions of the heart, etc., where there is a com- 1 munication between the right and left side, kept up after birth, that the 1 same circumstances and appearances take place; cases of this kind fre quently occur, of which the following is a strong instance. I was several times consulted about the state of a young gentleman's ? health, and though it could not be said anatomically, with precision, * * In such inspirations I conceive that so little air is taken in as hardly to reach the 9 cells of the lungs, so as to be able to influence the blood circulating on those cells.83 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. ■what the real conformation of the heart was, yet it was imagined that the symptoms arose from some imperfection in that organ. From his infancy, every considerable exertion produced a seeming tendency to suffocation; and as suffocation always arises from a want of the due effect of air on the blood, while the circulation is going on, the whole body must change from the scarlet tinge to the modena or purple; and in those parts where the blood gives its colour most, there will this effect be greatest, which is commonly in the face, and particular parts of the face, at the finger-ends, etc. While very young nothing but crying brought on those fits, but when he was grown so as to take bodily ex- ercise, as running, etc., then they became more frequent and more vio- lent ; and it is to be observed, that the older he grew the worse he was likely to be; for, with years approaching to maturity, his actions were likely to increase : great care, however, was taken to suppress such ac- tions as were found from experience to bring on the fits. No medical advice could be of the least service, further than to inform him what ■experience had already taught, unless to recommend occasionally, when his friends found that the fits of suffocation were more easily excited than usual, that he should lose a little blood, so as to lessen the neces- sary action of breathing; putting, in this way, the quantity and motion of the blood more upon a par, and at the same time not to indulge too much his appetite; but all these precautions hardly kept him tolerably well. The heart, in proportion to the difficulty, acted with more vio- lence ; and one could rather have wished the contrary to have taken place. As he could hardly use any exercise of his own, motion was ! given him, such as riding slowly on horseback, in carriages, etc. He lived to the age of between thirteen and fourteen; and though the dis- order did not destroy him, yet it is most probable that he could not have lived long, as he was every day arriving more and more at an age of action, but not in the same proportion acquiring prudence. When he died he was opened by Dr. Poultney, who transmitted an account of the appearance of the parts to the College of Physicians of London, which is published in the third volume of their Medical Transactions : such parts as are immediately connected with my subject I shall transcribe. “ Both lobes of the lungs were remarkably small, and some parts of them flaccid to such a degree as to suggest an idea of their having been incapable of performing their functions*. The liquor pericardii was in due quantity, and the heart was firm in texture, and of the naturai sizef. On examining the ventricles and the beginning of the aorta, a canal, or * Although I have transcribed this, yet I do not lay much stress noon it. t This shows there was no disease.84 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. passage, was found communicating with both ventricles, situated in an oblique direction near the basis of the heart, so large as to admit the end of the finger from the aorta with equal facility into either ventricle, the septum of the ventricle appearing to terminate with this canal. On examining the entrance of the pulmonary artery within the ventricle, it was judged that this entrance was much smaller, and more firm than common.” It is difficult here to say what would be the exact effect of this communication on the motion of the two bloods; that is, whether the blood of the right side was received into the left, or vice versd; if the oblique direction of this passage had been further described, it might have explained this doubt; for if the passage was direct, the blood would most probably pass from the left to the right, as the left ventricle acquires the greatest strength: the word oblique, however, and the expression, that the finger, from the aorta, passed with equal facility into either ventricle, would make us suppose that the obliquity led out of the right ventricle into the aorta; but, even with this obliquity, I should not think it probable that the blood would pass from the right to the left, because the left acts with so much more force : the description leaves us to account for the defect in respiration another way. If the blood passed from the right to the left, then it would have had the same effect as the canalis arteriosus, and probably was the only one in the foetus. In this case too little blood would pass through the lungs; but I do not conceive that this circumstance would affect respiration, because no stagnation would take place in the lungs; but if the blood got from the left to the right, then too much blood would be sent to the lungs, as it would be found to take its course twice. On the other hand, if the lungs be not capable of allowing a full distension equal to the actions of the heart, though naturally framed, the same thing takes place. In na- t ural deaths the pulsation of the heart commonly stops before breathing ceases ; but in deaths arising from a stoppage of breath, such as hanging or drowning, the reverse must take place; and in such we shall always find dark blood in the left side, which plainly took place in the experi- riment above mentioned. It may be supposed that in the lungs the blood cannot come in con- tact with the air ; but the circumstances above related, that the florid colour will extend some depths into the blood, shows that the effect of air can and does pervade animal matter. Not attending to this fact at first, I covered the mouths of vessels filled with venal blood with gold- beaters’ skin, touching the surface of the blood, and the blood constantly became of a florid red on the surface, and even for some depth. I put some dark venal blood into a phial, till it was about half full,GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 85 jj ind shook the blood, which mixed with the air in this motion, and it I became immediately of a florid red*. As the globules are the coarsest part of the blood, and they appear to be fully affected by the air in the lungs, we may suppose that the vessels of that viscus do not run into extreme minuteness, by which, apparently, no other purpose would be answered. The blood of the menses, when it comes down to the mouth of the vagina, is as dark as venal blood; and as it does not coagulate, it has sxactly the appearance of the blood in those where the blood continues fluid. Whether this arises from its being venal blood, or from its ac- quiring that colour after extravasation, by its slow motion, it is not easily determined; but upon being exposed it becomes florid : it is na- turally of a dark colour, but rather muddy, not having that transparency which pure blood has. Whether this arises from its mixing with the mucus of the vagina, or from the cessation of life in it, I will not pre- tend to say. The red globules, however, are not dissolved-; they retain their figure. Does air in the cellular membrane of an emphysematous person pro- duce or continue the floridness of the blood or notf? The surface of the blood becoming of a scarlet red, whether exposed immediately to the air, or when only covered by membranes, through ■which we may suppose its influence to pass, is a circumstance which leads us to suppose that it is the pure air which has this effect, and not ■simply an exposed surface]. To ascertain this, I made the following experiment: I took a phial, and fixed a stop-cock to its mouth, and then applying an air-pump to the cock, exhausted the whole air: in this state, keep- ing it stopped, I immersed its mouth in fresh blood flowing from a vein, and then turning the cock, allowed the blood to be pressed up into the phial. When it was about half full I turned the cock back, and now shook the phial with the blood, but its colour did not alter as in the former experiments; and when I allowed the blood to stand in this vacuum, its exposed surface was not in the least changed". These experiments I made in the summer 1755, when I was house-surgeon at St. George s Hospital, and Dr. Hunter taught them ever after at his lectures. f V ide Chester on Cases. Case first, the venal florid. St. George’s, a man emphy- sematous; blood very dark. + I may here observe, that fixed air [carbonic acid gas], as also inflammable airs, have contrary effects. * [I have much pleasure in referring the reader to Faust and Mitchell’s papers on Endosmose and Exosmose, and on the Penctrativencss of Fluids, in the American Journal of the Medical Sciences, vol. vii. pp. 22, 36, Sec also note, p. 35, respecting the menses.]GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. S6 The vast number of cells into which the lungs are divided, the whole arterial and venal system ramifying on the surface of those cells, and of course the whole of the blood passing through them in every circulation, together with the loss of life upon the missing three or four breathings in the most perfect animals, show the great nicety that is required in preserving the due properties of the blood for the purposes of animal j life : the time that we can live without air, or breathing, is shorter than j that in which we die from a defect in any other natural operation; ] breathing, therefore, seems to render life to the blood, and the blood j continues it in every part of the body. This nicety is not nearly so j great in many of the more imperfect animals. The amphibia have not this division of lungs, nor does the whole of the blood pass through the lungs in them, and they can live a consider- .t able time without breathing. This, at present, I only mention as a fact, j not meaning to give my opinion of the mode of preserving life, either in j the blood or body, by the application of air to it; though I will say ; that mere life in both is supported by the air, and probably few of the other properties connected with the blood depend so much upon air as ’ its life. But we may observe, that it was not necessary for the blood to undergo this change to render it fit for every purpose in the animal ’ ceconomy, for we find that venal blood answers some purposes : thus, ] the blood from the intestines, spleen, etc., going to the liver, as we sup- ; pose for the secretion of the bile, shows that venal blood will do for some secretions, though probably not absolutely necessary3 * * * * * * * 11. This ap- j plication of venal blood is a saving of blood ; and it is not necessary for the formation of bile that the venous blood should proceed from the j parts above mentioned, for in birds, amphibia, etc., other veins, besides ■ those, enter the liver. I have shown that several substances mixed with dark-coloured blood ] have the property of rendering it of a florid red; and it must have ap- j peared that by circulating through its body its dark colour is restored, j As it is capable of being rendered florid by several substances, so it may ] be rendered dark by several when florid: vital air [oxygen gas] has the j power of rendering it florid; but the other vapours, or gases, which \ 3 [This question was for a long while agitated, many physiologists contending that j the blood acquired in its passage through the spleen, omentum, intestines, &c., peculiar j qualities which fitted it for the secretion of the bile. However this may be, it certainly I is not indispensable. The trunk of the vena porta: has been found in several instances I to terminate in the inferior cava, instead of branching out into the liver. Mr. Abernethy 1 found this in a child about ten months old (Phil. Trans., 1703, p. 50.), and Mr. Wilson I in a young female (Med. Gaz., viii. 443.), the gall-bladder in both cases being perfectly ■ full; and in the last case the hepatic artery increased to a great size. Saunders, Huber, J and Lawrence have referred to similar cases.]87 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. ■ iave the name of airs, such as fixed air, inflammable air, etc., render it dark. This change is peculiar to the living body, for if arterial blood S'.s taken away, it retains its florid colour, although not in the least ex- posed to the air\ As it is found dark in the veins, and as it performs S-some offices in the course of the circulation which perhaps render it i unfit for the purposes of life, we may conceive that the loss of colour and this unfitness are effects of the same cause; but, upon further ob- servations on this fluid, it will be found that it may be rendered unfit ifor the purposes of life without losing its colour, and may lose its colour without being rendered unfit for life0: slowness of motion in the blood of the veins is one circumstance that causes the alteration ; but this alone wwill not produce the effect, for I have observed above, that arterial blood ;put into a phial, and allowed to stand quiet, does not become dark ; but rest, or slowness of motion in living parts, would appear, from many observations, to be a cause of this change in its colour. We know that the blood begins to move more and more slowly in the arteries; we sknow that its motion in the veins is slow' in comparison to what it is in : the arteries; we should therefore naturally suppose (considering this alone,) that it was the slowness of the motion that was the immediate cause. Rest or slowness of motion, in living and probably healthy i parts, certainly allows the blood to change its colour; thus, we never see extravasations of blood but they are always dark. I never saw a person die of an apoplexy, from extravasation in the brain, but the extravasated 1 blood was dark; even in aneurism it becomes dark in the aneurismal sac; also when the blood escapes out of the artery, and coagulates in the cellular membrane, we find the same appearance. These observations respecting apoplexy struck me much. I conceived * [Arterial blood is rendered dark by being placed in the vacuum of an air pump. There appears, therefore, no good reason for believing that any of the effects, relating to change of colour, which take place in the lungs, are peculiar to the living body.] b [Bichat’s opinion respecting the deleterious effects of venous blood, has been already briefly adverted to. Dr. Kay, however, found that when venous blood was injected in small quantities into the arteries it did not destroy life, or manifest any directly poison- ous effects. Hybernating animals continue to circulate black blood during the period of their torpidity, with the effect of rather increasing their muscular irritability. (Hall in Phil. Trans. 1832.) Mr. Owen found that in the kangaroo the ovum did not connect itself with the mother, or the chorion put forth any villi until the period of gestation had two thirds elapsed, although the foetus continued to grow during this time without respiration, or any office vicarious of it. (Phil. Trans. 1834.) In cholera, the blood in the arteries is perfectly black, and yet the functions of the brain remain perfect to the last, although undoubtedly the animal and vital functions are much enfeebled. Besides which, many other facts are mentioned in the present treatise which clearly require some modification of Bichat’s doctrine, in order to explain all the phenomena which relate to this subject.]GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 88 at first that the extravasations there must consist of venal blood ; but, from reasoning, I could hardly allow myself to think so ; for whatever might be the beginning of the disease, it was impossible it could con- « tinue afterwards wholly venal, especially when the blood was found in a considerable quantity; because, in many cases, great mischief was done to both systems of vessels, and the arteries once ruptured would I give the greatest quantity of blood : but to ascertain this with more cer- 1 tainty, I made the following experiment. I wounded the femoral artery of a puppy obliquely ; the opening in the skin was made at some distance from the artery, by a couching needle; the blood that came from the small orifice in the skin was florid. The cellular membrane swelled up very much; about five minutes after- ; wards I punctured the tumour, and the blood was fluid. In ten mi- i nutes I punctured it again; the blood was thinner, and more serous, but still florid. In fifteen minutes I punctured it again: at first only serum issued ; upon squeezing, a little blood came, but still florid : the mass now seemed to be principally coagulated, which prevented further trials. Some days after, when I cut into the swelled part, I found the blood as dark as common venal blood; so that here the change had taken place after coagulation. When I had plaster of Paris applied to my face to make a mould, in | the taking it oft' it produced a kind of suction on the fore part of the nose, which I felt; and when the plaster was removed, on observing the part it was red, as if the cells of the skin were loaded with extravasated blood ; this was then of a florid red, but it soon became of a dark purple, which showed that it was arterial blood, and that by stagnating in the cells of the body it became of the colour of venal blood. Blood may even be rendered dark in the larger arteries by a short stagnation. I laid bare the carotid artery of a dog for about two inches in length; I then tied a thread round it at each end, leaving a space of two inches in length between each ligature, filled with blood; the external wound was stitched loosely up: several hours afterwards I opened the stitches, and observed in this vessel that the blood was co- i agulated, and of a dark colour, the same as in the vein. Thus, I have j also seen, when a tourniquet has been applied round the thigh, and the j artery divided, that when it was slackened, the first blood came out of a dark colour, but what followed was florid. This I have seen in am- putations, when a tourniquet had been applied for a considerable time; 1 and it is commonly observed in performing the operation for aneurism. July, 1779, Mr. Bromfield had a patient in St. George’s Hospital I with an aneurism of the crural artery, about the middle of the thigh : 1 the artery had been dilated about three inches in length. The opera-GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 89 tion was performed, in which the artery was tied up above the dilata- tion, three or more inches, for security. When this was done, the tour- niquet was slackened, and a pretty considerable bleeding was observed, :-seemingly at the lower orifice, leading from the dilated part, which, at first, was supposed, from its colour, to be the venous blood that had - stagnated in the veins by means of the tourniquet; but this it could not ' be ; and it was found to flow from the lower orifice of the artery, which was immediately tied : we must suppose that the motion of the blood, in ■ making this retrograde course, uras very slow, for it had first to pass off .into small collateral branches above where it was tied, then to anasto- mose with similar small ones from the trunk below, and then to enter that trunk, all of which must very much retard its motion ; and, indeed, rthe manner of it3 oozing out of the vessels showed such a retardation. This motion of the blood, though in the arterial system, was in some . respects similar to the motion of the blood in both systems of vessels. This last circumstance plainly indicates a communication of the arte- ries above the aneurism with those below, by means of the anastamozing branches. The blood from the lower orifice flowed without any pulsation, which must have been owing to its coming into the large artery below by a vast number of smaller ones at different distances, and of course at dif- ferent times ; but probably the chief cause of this want of pulsation in ' the great artery was, that the power of the heart was lost in the two - systems of smaller arteries above and below; for the second system, or those from below, became in a considerable degree similar to veins, and the great artery in the leg below the aneurism was like a considerable vein. A young man, servant to Henry Drummond, Esq., having had a knife run into his thigh, which wounded the crural artery, a considerable tumour came on the part, consisting chiefly of blood extravasated, and ! lodged in the cellular membrane. This in some degree stopped the flowing of the blood from the cut artery, and on dilating the wound, so as to get to the artery, I observed that the extravasated blood in the cellular membrane was of the venal colour. On exposing the artery, which was first secured from bleeding by a tourniquet above, and then slightly slackening that instrument, the first blood which flowed from above was dark, and even was taken for venous blood by the operator; but he was soon convinced that it was arterial by the florid colour of that which almost immediately ensued. I observed that the colour of the blood was as dark as that of any venous blood I ever saw. I' rom these experiments and observations, we must conclude that the colour of the blood is altered, either by rest or slow motion, in livingGENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 90 parts, and even in the arteries; this circumstance takes place in the vessels as the motion of the blood decreases». Another observation occurs, viz., that the whole of the limb below the ligature, where the crural artery had been taken up, must have been entirely supplied with such altered blood; and as it kept its life, its warmth, and the action of its muscles, it is evident that the colour of the blood is of little service to any of those properties. It is probably j from this cause that granulations on the lower part of the lower extre- mity look dark when the person stands erect, as well as in very indolent sores, however situated. Another observation strongly in favour of the supposition that rest is a cause of the change of blood from the scarlet colour to the dark, or modena, is taken from the common operation of bleeding; for we gene- rally find the blood of a dark colour at its first coming out, but it be- comes lighter and lighter towards the last. Some reasons may be given for this: first, it has stagnated in the veins while the vein was filling, and the orifice making, which occupy some time, and may render it darker than it otherwise might have been in the same vein : secondly, * [Arterial blood is also blackened in vacuo, and when placed in media which exert no apparent chemical action upon it, such as hydrogen and nitrogen (Priestley on Air, iii. 363-4.); nay, arterial blood gradually blackens when confined in pure oxygen, and cannot be again brightened by this agent (Thompson, Sys. of Chem., iv. 474.), although, bv the addition of any neutral salt having an alkaline or earthy base, the colour is in- stantly restored. These facts are clearly against the notion, to be adverted to presently, of free carbon being the cause of the black colour of the blood, because as much of this substance must exist in the blood at the commencement of the experiment as at the termination. Neither is it easy to reconcile these phenomena with Dr. Stevens’s theory of arterialization ; for if carbonic acid is the cause of the dark colour, how is it that arterial blood (which, according to this author, contains no carbonic acid,) is ren- dered black, and venous blood still blacker, by being placed in vacuo; since the salts remain the same, while the effect of a vacuum whould evidently be rather to extract a part of the carbonic acid than to increase its amount? It is possible that these phe- nomena may depend on some alteration in the constitution of the clot, arising from a mutual play of affinities between its proximate elements, thus the blood is also observed to become venalized in the living body from the mere fact of stagnation. Sir Astley Cooper found that those changes which constitute the venalization of the blood in the body were not effected under extreme cold, so that the blood remained florid through- out the whole system of those animals which perished from cold (Dr. Hodgkin’s Notes to Edwards); whereas, under the influence of moderate warmth, such as that of the bodv, these changes take place, slowly on cxtravasated or stagnating blood, but instantly in the extreme capillaries. It will be sufficient to have noticed in this place the analogy which subsists between the venalization of the blood under these different circumstances, without pretending to decide whether these phenomena depend on the gradual union of carbon and oxygen with each other, or on any other cause. The subject will be resumed in a fu-GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 91 when there is a free orifice the blood may pass more readily into the ■reins from the arteries, and therefore may be somewhat in the state of arterial blood, which may occasion the last blood to be rather lighter. •What amounts almost to a proof of this is, that although a ligature is tied so as to stop the passage of the blood to the heart, and therefore it might be supposed not to have so free a passage from the arteries as in common, yet, from the following observations, it appears that it cer- : tainly has a much freer; for if the orifice be large in a full-sized vein, the arm beyond the orifice will be much paler than the natural colour, .and the blood will become more florid ; but if, on the contrary, the vein be small, and little blood passes, it will retain its dark colour ; this, however, would appear not always to be the case. I bled a lady, whose blood at first was of a dark colour ; but she fainted, and while she continued in the fit the colour of the blood that came from the vein was a fine scarlet. The circulation was then very languid. We may observe that venal blood in the most healthy is commonly, 1 if not always, the darkest; and that whenever the body is the least out of order, it is then not so much changed from the florid to the very dark ■ purple. This I have often observed, and particularly recollect a strik- . ing instance of it in a gentleman who had a slight fever ; his venal blood was quite florid, like arterial blood. This could not have arisen from the increase of the blood’s motion, or from being kept up in the veins by the fever, for it was slight*. The blood will change its colour from the scarlet to the rnodena in different situations, according to the mode of circulation. In animals which have lungs and a complete double circulation, the darkest blood will be where it comes (if I may be allowed the expression) to get anew its bright colour ; for instance, in the arteries of the lungs, and of course the brightest in the veins of the same part, which will be continued more or less into the arteries of the other circulation, where again it will begin to change, except in one stage of life of some animals which do not use their lungs, such as foetuses ; but in such foetuses as convert animal matter into nourishment, (and therefore, most probably, must have it influenced by the air, although not by means of the lungs of the chick, such as the chick in the egg,) we find the blood in the veins of * I believe the blood does not become dark by standing in an inflamed part. I have seen cases of apoplexy where the person died some days after the attack. 1 have found the pia mater inflamed in several places, even to the length of inflammatory transfusion, forming dots, all of which were of a florid red colour, while the other parts of the same membrane, the blood in the larger vessels, and also the extravasated blood, were of the usual dark colour.GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 92 their temporary lungs of a florid colour, while it is dark in the arteries; so that it has become of a dark colour, in its passage to and from the heart; but in the more perfect animals the blood, I believe, becomes darker and darker as it proceeds from the heart, till it returns to the heart again ; but this change is very little in the arterial system, more especially in vessels near the heart, as the coronary arteries. The change of colour is more rapid in the veins, but it is not equally made through the whole venous system ; for it will be produced more quickly in the lower parts of the lower extremities than in the veins near the heart; it begins, most probably, where the motion first has a tendency to be- come languid ; and this usually takes place in the very small arteries; for in bleeding in the foot, or on the back of the hand, I have observed, in general, that the blood is of a more florid red than in the bend of the arma. " [In order to complete the general view of the changes which the blood undergoes during the course of its circulation, I propose very briefly to advert to the subject of respiration, relying upon my reader’s indulgence for the imperfection of a sketch which is not capable of being well comprised within the limits of a note. Mr. Hunter, although no chemist, had sufficient sagacity to perceive the insufficiency of all existing theories of respiration, and therefore confined himself to the bare state- ment of facts, leaving it to future observation to discover the clue by which these might be explained. He admits that the arterialization of the blood, so far at least as change of colour is concerned, is wholly irrespective of vital causes; but he seems to have re- garded the renewal of the vitality of the blood as dependent on some inexplicable effect of the vital air, from which the idea of any chemical changes is wholly excluded. Un- doubtedly we shall not err in regarding change of colour as merely expressive of some other more important changes effected by respiration ; but then these changes are essen- tially chemical, and it is on these alone that the vitalizing properties of the blood de- pend. 1 shall also premise that the principal seat of these changes is in the pulmonary and systemic capillaries; for although, under certain circumstances, a similar change may undoubtedly occur, as well in the great vessels as in extravasated blood, yet the change is generally instantaneous in the natural course of the circulation ; that is, the blood enters the capillaries of the lungs black, and is immediately converted to red; and on the other hand, it is scarlet in the smallest arterioles of the body, but black in the minutest radicles of the veins. These systems antagonize each other, so that whatever the blood acquires in one it loses in the other, and vice versd. If venous blood be exposed to atmospheric air, its colour is soon converted from black into scarlet; a portion of oxygen is absorbed, and an equal proportion of carbonic acid is disengaged. If, instead of atmospheric air, pure oxygen is employed, these effects are more quickly and more characteristically developed; but they are not produced by any gases (with the exception perhaps of carburetted hydrogen,) which have not oxygen as an element. Such are the simple phenomena of arterialization, which equally take place in and out of the body, although not with equal rapidity. Thus, Allen and Pepys found that a man of average size breathed about nineteen times in a minute, and took in about 154 cubic inches of air at each inspiration. About 26’6 cubic inches, at 50°, of oxygen were calculated to be withdrawn from the atmo- sphere per minute, and the same quantity of carbonic acid to be emitted from the lungs,GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 93 . 5. Of the Quantity of Blood, and course of its Circulation. I It appears to me impossible to ascertain the quantity of blood in the body, and the knowledge of it would probably give very little assistance -making of the latter about 38,232 cubic inches per day, or nearly 10J oz. troy of solid carbon. (Phil. Trans. 1808, p. 25G.) Atmospheric air consists of 79 parts of nitrogen and 21 of oxygen ; but, according to •Allen and Pepys, the nitrogen remained unaffected by the process of respiration, which consisted solely in the abstraction of a quantity of oxygen exactly sufficient to convert . the carbon of the blood into carbonic acid, bulk for bulk, equal w ith that of the oxygen -abstracted. It was therefore natural to suppose that the black colour of venous blood depended on the presence of free carbon, or carbon in some peculiar state of combina- tion, which was given out from the lungs in the act of respiration. The blood, in short, was supposed to be carbonized in the extreme capillaries of the body, and to be decar- bonized in the lungs. It has been ascertained, however, by more correct experiment, first, that the quantity of oxygen lost does not always correspond with the quantity of carbonic acid emitted from the lungs; 2nd, that nitrogen is absorbed or given out under certain circum- stances; and 3rd, that carbonic acid exists ready formed in venous blood (see note, p. 28.). \ Dr. Edwards found that the quantity of oxygen consumed above the quantity of carbon produced, varied in the lower tribes of animals from nothing to one third of the whole (De l'Influence desAgem physiques sur la Pie) ; while, on the other hand, it has been re- marked by Dr. Prout that the amount of carbonic acid produced also varied according to the age of the animal, the diet, the time of the day, the season of the year, the state of the atmosphere, the quantity of exercise, and many other physical circumstances. (Ann. of Phil., ii. 330., and iv. 331-4.) Edwards found similar variations in the quan- tity of nitrogen (op. cit., p. 420.). When pigeons were confined in oxygen gas con- taining from one to two per cent, of nitrogen, the volume of gas remained undiminished, and only so much oxygen was found to have been abstracted as would have happened if the pigeons had been made to respire common air; but then a much smaller quantity of carbonic acid was formed, the deficiency being made up by an evolution of nitrogen. By varying the experiment, and mixing oxygen and hydrogen with a small propor- tion of nitrogen (the oxygen being in the same proportion as in common air), no loss of oxygen was sustained, but a quantity of hydrogen disappeared, which was exactly replaced by an equal proportion of nitrogen. (Allen and Pepys, Phil. Trans. 1829, p. 279.) During the month of March Dr. Edwards confined frogs in pure hydrogen, from which he found that volumes of carbonic acid, nearly equalling the whole bulk of the animals employed, were evolved, although the lungs had previously been exhausted by pressure. A young kitten also, confined for nineteen minutes in the same manner in hydrogen, evolved twelve times more carbonic acid than could be accounted for by the residual air in the lungs when the experiment began. (Op. cit., pp. 437—465.) It may be distinctly concluded, therefore, from these facts, that the lungs are capable of absorbing and giving out gaseous matters, particularly oxygen and carbonic acid. In man the quantity of oxygen abstracted from the atmosphere pretty exactly equals the quantity of carbonic acid produced ; but whether the whole oxygen is absorbed, and the whole carbonic acid evolved from the blood, or whether the lungs are merely the seat in which the carbon of the blood combines with the oxygen of the air to form car- bonic acid, remains at present a question. From the system of antagonism which is94 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. towards better understanding the ceconomy of the animal. The quantity of blood is probably as permanent a circumstance as any, and evinced in many of the functions of the animal (Economy, Dr. Edwards is disposed to regard the former of these opinions as most probable (op. cit., p. 437.) ; and certainly, when we reflect on the importance of the respiratory functions, it is reasonable to suppose that this is actually the case. What the exact changes are which are wrought on venous blood, so as to restore to it its vivifying properties, are unknown, but it seems to fall in- finitely short of our notion of the importance of this function to suppose that it merely rids the blood of a little carbon. This would be merely to ascribe to respiration a ne- gative effect, whereas it is scarcely possible to refrain from the conclusion that this important function confers on the blood new and positive qualities, by more completely animalizing its various elements. Such, then, are the phenomena of respiration; but what are the immediate causes of the change of colour in the blood ? The scarlet colour is instantly restored to venous blood by the contact of oxygen, and hence it was universally supposed that the arteri- alization of the blood depended on the absorption of this gas. But this has been denied by Dr. Stevens (On the Blood, p. S. ct passim), whose views are: 1st, That the colouring matter of the blood is naturally black, but that “ scarlet is the natural colour of the vital current; and this it owes to another cause.” 2nd, “ That carbonic acid is the cause of the dark colour in the venous circulation,” having “ascertained by numerous experiments that all the acids blacken the blood.” 3rd, “ That oxygen brightens its colour, not by addition, but by attracting or removing the carbonic acid.” And 4th, “ That the scarlet colour is produced by the action of the saline ingredients on the co- louring matter.” He affirms that “ the scarlet colour exists in the blood independent of oxygen, or, at all events, oxygen of itself cannot produce either the red or the arterial appearance, for when we cover the crassamentum, when it first coagulates, with a layer of distilled water, or any other fluid which does not contain saline matter, the acid may be removed by the oxygen, or absorbed by the water, but the colour becomes darker than it had been before. On the other hand, when we immerse the black and saltless cras- samentum in any clear saline fluid, the colour instantly changes from dark venous to bright arterial; and when the fluid which we use is sufficiently impregnated with saline matter, this change is produced when we make the experiment, as I have, frequently done, even in an atmosphere of carbonic acid. Oxygen, however, is essential to life, for without this the heavy deleterious gas, which is the cause of the impurity of the venous circu- lation, would not be removed in the pulmonary organs; the blood in the extreme cir- culation is converted from arterial to venous, partly by the loss, or rather by the change of form in the oxygen which it contains, and partly by the addition of carbonic acid; but when this dark or acidified blood is exposed to the air in the lungs, the oxygen in- stantly removes the acid from the circulation.” Such is a brief outline of Dr. Stevens’s views, according to which oxygen plays the following part in respiration, namely, at first it lifts out or carries off the carbonic acid of the blood by virtue of a “ latent power of attraction”; and secondly, having performed this office, it is absorbed into the circu- lating fluids, where it gradually attracts carbon, from the proximate principles of the blood working important changes on these substances, and giving rise to the production of carbonic acid. This union of carbon and oxygen may slowly take place, as we have seen in the preceding note, even out of the body, and still more rapidly in the great vessels of the living animal; but undoubtedly the principal scat of these changes is in the extreme capillaries of the periphery, where the change from arterial to venous is instantaneous, and where, it must be evident, the affinity of oxygen for carbon must be exercised under the most favourable circumstances, in consequence of the minuteGENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 95 not depending on immediate action : we have not one hour less and an- other hour more; nothing but accident or disease can lessen the quan- state of division in which the combining elements are presented to each other, not to mention the controling influences of the nervous power over this system of vessels, as evinced in the functions of secretion and nutrition, which are merely parallel examples of the exercise of complicated chemical aflinities. Whatever may be thought of several parts of these views, it seems to be an incon- testible fact that oxygen alone is incapable of restoring the arterial tint to blood which .has been rendered black by immersion in water. Dr. Turner, with the assistance of his friend and colleague Mr. Quain, records the following experiment, which I shall jecite in his own words. “ I collected,” he says, “ some perfectly florid blood from the femoral artery of a dog; and, on the following morning, when a firm coagu- lum had formed, several thin slices were cut from the clot with a sharp penknife, and -the serum was removed from them by distilled water, which had just before been briskly boiled and allowed to cool in a well-corked bottle. The water was gently poured on these slices, so that while the serum was dissolved, as little as possible of the colouring matter should be lost. After the water had been poured off and renewed four or five times, occupying in all about an hour, the moist slices were placed in a saucer at the side of the original clot, and both portions shown to several medical friends. They all, without hesitation, pronounced the unwashed clot to have the per- fect appearance of arterial blood, and the washed slices to be as perfectly venous; the colour of the latter in fact was quite dark. On restoring one of the slices to the serum of the same blood, it shortly recovered its florid colour ; and another slice, placed in a solution of bicarbonate of soda, instantly acquired a similar tint. In thus brightening a dark clot by a solution of salt or a bicarbonate, the colour is often still more florid than that of arterial blood; but the colours are exactly alike when the salt is duly diluted. “ I am at a loss to draw any other inference from the foregoing experiment than the following;—that the florid colour of arterial blood is not due to oxygen, but, as Dr. ■ Stevens affirms, to the saline matter of the serum. The arterial blood which had been used had been duly oxygenized, as it is called, within the body of the animal, and should not in that state have lost its tint by mere removal of its serum. The change from venous to arterial blood appears, contrary to the received doctrine, to consist of two parts essentially distinct: one is a chemical change essential to life, accompanied with the absorption of oxygen and evolution of carbonic acid; the other depends on the saline matter of the blood, whch gives a florid tint to the colouring matter after it has been modified by the action of oxygen. (Elem. of Chemistry, 4th edit. 1833, p. 903.) As it would lengthen too much the discussion of the present subject to examine fully all the objections which may be urged to this theory, I shall content myself with making two or three observations which strike me as being most important. 1st. Oxygen is said to have no positive concern in producing the red colour of the blood; but a stream of oxygen passed through a solution of colouring matter, previously rendered florid by a neutral salt, unquestionably exalted the vividness of the tint. Con- sequently oxygen is not entirely a passive agent. 2nd. Oxygen is said to possess a “ latent power of attraction” for carbonic acid, by which it lifts this gas out, and, as it were, carries it off from the blood; but the ascrip- tion of such a property to oxygen is unphilosophical, as the phenomenon in question may be referred with more propriety to the general law of endosmose and exosmose, according to which, gases, by virtue of their elasticity, mutually penetrate and displace one another, such penetration and displacement being always reciprocal. (Sec Amer. Journ. of Med. Sci., vii. pp. 23, 36.) Besides, as the rate of penetration for carbonicGENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 96 tity; the first probably immediately, the other slowly; but even then, although under par, it is so slowly made up as not to constitute sudden acid and oxygen is respectively as 5§ and 113 minutes, while that for nitrogen is too inconsiderable to be assigned, it would not be possible, even admitting an attraction between gases to exist, to explain this property of oxygen ; for whatever may be the rate of penetration, the attraction between gases must be equal; consequently, as the proportion of nitrogen to oxygen is as 79 to 21, the attractive power of the former will be nearly four times greater than that of the latter, and be moreover constantly present (in consequence of the low rate of penetrativeness of this gas) to aid in “ lifting out the carbonic acid.” From these considerations, therefore, I conclude that the ascription of a latent power of attraction to oxygen is both an unfounded and an inadequate sup- position. 3. The presence of oxygen and the absence of carbonic acid in arterial blood have never been satisfactorily ascertained by accurate experiment; for, notwithstanding the assertion of Dr. Stevens that arterial blood contains no carbonic acid, a different result has been obtained by MM. Tiedcmann and Gmelin (Poggendor/'s Annal., xxxii.), so that this point must certainly be regarded at present as undecided. 4. It has also been objected, 1st, that venous blood coagulated in vacuo parts with a portion of its carbonic acid, and yet remains black, nay blacker than before, although if oxygen be admitted in this state the red colour is restored; and 2nd, that arterial blood (as has been remarked in the preceding note) grows black when congulated in vacuo, or even when confined in pure oxygen. In answer to the first of these objections, it has been replied that the attraction between carbonic acid and blood is greater than can be overcome by one atmosphere, so that the air-pump is an insufficient means of ridding the blood of this gas, but only draws it to the surface, by which it blackens it still more. But this explanation is not satisfactory; because although the air-pump cannot draw out the whole, it yet draws out a part; besides which, hydrogen and ni- trogen, which draw out the whole, strongly blacken the blood, although they have no chemical action upon it. (Dublin Journ., ii. 72; Lancet, 1831-32, ii. 659; Med. Ga- zette, xi. 881.) In respect to the gradual blackening of arterial blood in pure oxygen, it has been replied that the blood acts on itself when out of the body in a way some- what analogous to what happens to it in the capillaries of the living animal (see pre- ceding note), that is, various complex affinities are brought into exercise from the union and gradual action of the oxygen on some of the component parts of the blood, in con- sequence of which the whole composition of this fluid is altered, and probably carbonic acid produced. But this explanation is not more satisfactory than the preceding, be- cause, in the first place, a number of things are here assumed which are not proveable, and in the second place it is reasonable to suppose that the blackening effect on the blood is always due to the same cause ; which cause cannot be the one here assumed ; because, if it were, the oxygen which is present would invariably carry off the carbonic acid as fast as it is generated, and restore the red colour. (See Williams in Med. Ga- zette, xvi. 813.) With respect to the readmission of oxygen restoring the red colour to arterial blood which has been blackened in vacuo, I believe no explanation has yet been attempted, although the fact itself has been partly denied. Upon the whole, there- fore, these are real objections, which must he allowed their due weight in considering this subject. 5. The objection that carbonic acid does not blacken the blood (Lancet ut supra) has been completely removed by Mr. Hoffman, who found that a stream of carbonic acid passed through oxygenized blood gradually converted it to a black colour. (Med. Gazette, xi. 881.) The same author has also confirmed the statement of Dr. Stevens that a97 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. variations : yet, when we come to consider the varieties in the pulse, we should imagine there would be great varieties in the quantity of blood. The quantity I think must be considerable when we reflect on the use of this fluid; the quantity of supply or food necessary to keep it up; • that it supports the body and life everywhere; and that it forms the j pabulum of many secretions. All these cannot depend on a very small quantity of this fluid without conceiving at the same time an extremely quick change. There seem to be twro modes of judging, both of which are evidently liable to objections in point of accuracy, and they differ so : much as to show' that neither can be right. One is, to calculate how much may be in an animal from the quantity it will lose in a short time. : I have seen several quarts thrown up from the stomach in a few hours, ; even by a very thin puny person; and, on the other hand, if wTe had not this proof we should suppose there could be but very little, w'hen a few ounces w'ill make a person faint. I have an idea, however, that people can bear to lose more by the stomach than in any other way. Besides, stream of carbonic acid gas passed through blood which has been previously reddened by a neutral salt renders it irrecoverably black. C. A dark clot is equally arterialized when covered with milk or white of egg (Priest- ,ley on Air, iii.; Wells in Phil. Trans., 1797.) as when covered with its own serum. •The effect indeed is more slowly produced, but it is accompanied with the same loss of oxygen and the same evolution of carbonic acid, consequently the salts of the serum cannot be the cause of the red colour. But this objection is of little weight, 1st, because a minute portion of salts is contained in milk and white of egg; and 2nd, because the further contraction of the clot may extrude a still further portion of serum, which coming in contact with the surface of the clot may arterialize it. 7. Upon the supposition that free carbonic acid is the sole cause of the dark colour of the blood, by suspending the reddening tendency of the salts, the addition of a mi- nute quantity of any pure alkali, sufficient to neutralize the acid, ought immediately not only to restore this property to the salts, but tolncrease it, by adding to the previously existing salts a carbonated alkali; but the addition of any quantity of a pure alkali is found rather to increase the blackness of the blood. ( Williams in Med. Gaz.,ul supra.) Considerable weight is undoubtedly due to several of these objections, although they do not appear to me to be of that nature that they may not possibly be removed by , further inquiries. The following inferences seem at least fairly deducible from the preceding considera- tions : 1st, that air or oxygen without salt has no power of reddening the blood; 2nd, that salt without air has this effect; 3rd, that carbonic acid is probably the cause of the black colour of venous blood, by overpowering the natural reddening tendency of the serum; and 4th, that the removal of the carbonic acid is the cause of the red colour, by allowing the serum to exercise this tendency unobstructed. Independently of any theory these are novel and interesting facts, for which wre are mainly indebted to Dr. Stevens. It cannot, however, be concealed that the theory of respiration, calorification and arterialization which he has built upon them is defective in many main points, al- | though I consider it on the whole as open to fewer objections than any other, and as j fully deserving of being followed up with further and more accurate experiments.]98 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. it becomes a matter almost of surprise how little is commonly found in the dead body: but I believe in disease it in some degree diminishes with the body; for more is to be found in those who die suddenly, or of acute diseases; and even in some who die of lingering diseases, as of dropsy, we have a considerable quantity of blood. The only way of accounting for this is, that in a common lingering illness there is less blood, and in a dropsy it coagulates less; for the strong coagulation squeezes out the serum, which, I imagine, transudes after death, and is not observable. It would appear upon the whole, that the quantity of blood in an animal is proportioned to the uses of that blood iu the machine, which, probably, may be reckoned three in number : the first is simply the sup- port of the whole, which includes the growth or increase of parts, the keeping the parts already formed to their necessary standard, and also the supply of waste in the parts. The second is the support of action, such as the action of the brain and muscles, in which is produced uncommon wraste; and thirdly, secretion; all of which will fluctuate except the simple support, but more particularly the support of action. I have al- ready observed that the anastomosing of vessels gives greater space for blood. Probably a paralytic limb would give the necessary quantity for simple support®. There is nothing particular in the veins, so as to give an idea that they were intended to increase the quantity of blood : they hold, how- ever, more than the arteries, wThich certainly adds to the quantity; but the increase of size lessens the velocity. They form plexuses, and what are called certain bodies; as the plexus reteformis in the female, and corpora cavernosa and spongiosa in the male. We see how little blood supports a part in an aneurism; and, probably, slowness of motion is suitable to little blood. It must have appeared in the account of the different colours of the different parts of the body, arising from the proportion of red blood, " [On bleeding a young ass to death, of the weight of 791bs., Percival obtained 5£lbs. of blood, that is, it perished from a loss of about -Pj-th of its weight: Sir Astley Cooper estimated the proportion which an animal might lose before death at about -Pj-th. Probably Haller’s estimate of the actual quantity of blood in the body ap- proaches as nearly to the truth as any, viz. £th its weight; of which -}ths or more were supposed to be in the veins, and ^th or less in the arteries. (El. Phys., v. i. 3.) As the proportional quantity of blood varies very considerably in different animals, it is probable that age, temperament, food, exercise, and other external circumstances have also a considerable influence in this respect in man. Thackrah found that the quantity of evaporable fluid in a dog was 621-6, the solid being 378*4 (op. cit., p.232.): but this gives no idea of the actual quantity of blood in the body, for all the animal textures contain abundance of water, which would necessarily come into the account.]GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 99 t that some parts must have much more blood than others ; and we have now to mention that some parts have much larger vessels going to them ■ than others. This idea is confirmed, by the blood being the moving material of life, and taking a part in every action of it: its quantity is • to be found in proportion to those actions; and since the body is a com- pound of parts, or rather of actions, whose uses are known to vary con- siderably, we find blood directed to those parts in proportion to their actions ; and this we judge of by the size of the vessels and redness of 111 the part in those animals which have red blood, and we may suppose f the same in those which have not this part of the blood. The brain has considerable vessels, &c. going to it, yet its substance is white, which is in some degree owing to its opacity; the tongue is vascular; the thyroid gland is vascular; the lungs allow of the passage of the whole blood in most animals, and therefore have always a current of blood through them equal to the whole; the liver is extremely vascular, which is known from its proportion of vessels, as well as its colour; and as there is in this viscus a peculiar circulation, the very great quan- tity of blood passing through it adds to the quantity in the whole body. The spleen is extremely vascular, as are likewise the kidneys; the stomach and intestines have considerable vessels going to them, and the muscles in general, more especially those of labouring people ; for labour increases the quantity of blood in the whole, beyond simple nou- rishment in the full-grown, or beyond the mere growth in the young. In tracing the course of this nourishment in animals (which consists ultimately of the blood), from the most simple to the most complicated there is a pretty regular series; although this regularity is interrupted whenever there is a variety in the circumstances, which are to be taken into the account; but the whole of this forms too extensive a subject for our present consideration. If I were to begin at the formation of the blood, I should first treat of digestion in those animals which have stomachs; but this is a distinct subject. We may, however, begin with its immediate consequences, as digestion produces the first and most essential change, viz. the con- version of the food into a fluid called chyle. The chyle is the imme- diate effect or product of digestion, and is the seed wdiich, as it were, grows into blood, or may be said to be the blood not yet made perfect. The chyle, to appearance, varies in different animals. In the quad- ruped and in the crocodile it is white; but in most other animals it is transparent: where it is white its parts are more conspicuous than where it is transparent. In this respect it is similar to the red blood, and is found to consist of a coagulating matter, a serum, and white globules, which render it of a white colour, so as in some degree to resemble h 2100 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. milk. I hese globules are smaller than the red globules of the blood, and about the size of those in the pancreatic juice; they retain their figure in water, and therefore are not similar to the red globules; they retain their round form in the serum ; they are also specifically heavier than their own lymph and serum. One would naturally suppose from observing the chyle to have glo- bular particles in certain animals that they formed the red globules in the blood; but when we consider that the chyle in fowls has no glo- bules, and yet that they have red blood, we must conclude that they do not answer this purpose®. The first motion of the nourishment in most animals consists in the absorption of the chyle from the appendages of the stomach ; and in many this alone appears to constitute the whole, as they have no such organ or viscus as a heart, to which it may be carried; and in such it may be supposed to be, in its mode of distribution, somewhat similar to the mesenteric veins and vena portae : the parts therefore assimilate, and dispose of it themselves ; but this structure belongs only to the most simple, or the first class of animals. In those which are more perfect, where parts are formed for each particular purpose, the chyle is brought to one organ, called the heart, having first joined the venous blood, which now requires a similar process, and both are sent to the lungs, where most probably the chyle receives its finishing process ; and from thence it comes back to the heart again, to be sent to every part of the body*. In those animals that have hearts we are to take into the account a number of particulars. First, the blood’s motion in consequence of that organ; secondly, the principal intention of that motion, viz. that it may be prepared in the lungs, which introduces breathing ; thirdly, the va- riety in the kinds of lungs; fourthly, the different kinds of media in which animals are obliged to breathe for the purpose of extracting matter employed in the preparation of this fluid. In this investigation we shall find there is not an exact or regular correspondence in all the parts so employed. This irregularity arises from animals breathing different substances: such as some breathing the common atmosphere, in which is included the respirable air; others water, in which air is included, as fish. Some breathe both air and water; while there are others which breathe air in their perfect state, but water in their first periods or imperfect state of lifef. If wre were * The circulation in fish is an exception to this. f In this account I do not include animals in embryo, and some others, which do not breathe at all. * [See note, p. 67.]101 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. to take a view of all these systems, each should be considered apart, with all its peculiarities or connexions, together with the different sy- stems, as they gradually creep into one another, some being perfectly distinct, while others partake more or less of both. The complete sy- stem is always to be considered as the most perfect, although it may be- long in other respects to a more imperfect order of animals. It has been supposed by physiologists that as the blood is found to consist of different parts, or rather properties, that certain parts or pro- perties were determined to certain parts of the body, for particular pur- poses ; but from the frequent anastomosis of arteries, the great variety in their number and origin, and the different courses which they take in different bodies, it is very evident that there can be no particular blood sent to any part of the body, where the whole blood can circulate. Many unnatural situations of parts show this. For instance, the kid- neys sometimes have one artery only on one side, and two., three, or four on the other: on one side they may arise from the aorta as high nearly as the superior mesenteric, and on the other as low almost as the division into the two iliacs; and in some cases a kidney has been formed in the pelvis, and the artery has arisen from the iliac. The spermatic arteries too, sometimes, arise on one side from the aorta, and on the ■ other from the emulgents or the arteria capsulse renalis. If there was a particular blood sent to every gland, we should expect to find urine secreted in the testicle, when its artery arose from the emulgent; but as the blood visibly consists of different parts in those animals we arc most acquainted with, and whose physiology is probably best known to us, and as one part of the blood can be traced in the vessels, we can determine with sufficient accuracy the proportions of blood sent, as well as the different kinds. Thus, the red part of the blood informs us how far it is carried; and we find that our coloured injections nearly cor- respond with this information. I may here first remind the reader that the red globules are the grosser part of the blood, and therefore wherever these exist we have the blood with all its parts in due proportion and unseparated; but the construc- tion in many parts of an animal is such that the red blood is excluded, and this also excludes every coloured powder we can inject; the vascu- larity, therefore, of such parts is not known, as has been mentioned already. Through them the coagulating lymph only can pass, and probably the serum, for the simple nourishment of the parts. Of this nature are tendons or tendinous parts, ligaments, elastic ligaments, cartilages, especially those of joints, the cornese of the eye, &c. Even the brain and nerves have not the red blood pushed so far into their substance as many other parts have : we see therefore that the whole blood is not conveyed to all parts alike, and this we must suppose to102 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. answer some good purpose ; yet, upon a more particular view of this subject, we may find it difficult to assign causes for this selection of the blood; for in many animals we find parts similar in construction and use, such as muscles, which are furnished, some with the whole blood, others with the coagulating lymph only, with all the gradations ; some animals having both red and white muscles, others having them wholly red, and others wholly white, as will be more fully explained. Even venous blood can be rendered useful when it is not to answer the pur- pose of nourishment; for we find the blood of the intestines and spleen going to the liver, we may presume, for the secretion of the bile, as has been already observed (p. 86.). The idea of particular kinds of blood being sent to parts having par- ticular uses, more especially where the part is employed solely in dis- posing of this fluid, such as glands, is now, I believe, pretty well ex- ploded ; and it is supposed therefore that the whole mass of blood is such as to be fitted for all the purposes of the machine. This idea gives to the parts themselves full power over the blood so composed, and makes us consider the circulation or motion of the blood simplya. As the blood is composed of different parts, it might be supposed that if any particular part had been expended in any process, the re- mainder, as returned by the veins, would show this by its different ap- pearance or qualities. The only visible difference that I could conceive to take place was in the appearance or quantity of coagulating lymph. To ascertain this, however, I made the following experiments. Exp. 1. I opened the right side of the thorax in a living dog, and tied a ligature round the vena-cava inferior, above the diaphragm. I then ap- plied my hand upon the opening, which allowed him to breathe, that the circulation might go on and fill the larger veins. When the inferior vena- " [It seems extraordinary that the question, whether the blood sent to any1 one part of the body differs from that sent to any other part, should ever have been agitated. (See note, p. 73.) But to assign distinct and appropriate offices to the several elements of the blood in the functions of secretion, nutrition, &c., is altogether another question, which may plausibly enough be entertained. The observations of Bauer, Prevost and Dumas, and, lastly, of Milne Edwards, on the globules of the blood and several of the animal secretions, agreeing in this respect with the apparent globular constitution of the animal tissues, seemed for a time to establish a simple system of homogenesis of structure for the whole body, consisting, on the one hand, of an infinity of elementary molecules diffbsed through the nutritive fluids of plants and animals, and on the other hand, of these same molecules arranged in definite but diversified manners, so as to constitute the various tissues of the body. Unfortunately, however, for the beauty of this hypothesis, the very fact of the globular constitution of the animal tissues has been recently denied by Hodgkin and Lister. {Phil. Mag. and Annals, Aug. 1827, and also App. to Tr. of Ed- wards’s Influence of External Agents on Life, &c.) Tiedemann also affirms the same thing, and says that even where organic particles do exist they present various forms and sizes, and are unlike those of the blood {Phys., tr. by Gully and Lane, p. 397.). So far, therefore, as relates to the use of the globular particles we are just as much in theGENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 103 -ava became turgid, I killed him. On the day following I examined the blood in the different veins, and found a coagulum in the emulgent, ■mesenteric, vena-cava inferior, splenic, and in the vense-cavae hepaticae, of sizes proportionable to the sizes of the vessels ; nor was there any dif- ference in any other wray. Exp. 2. Some blood w'as taken from the mesenteric vein of a liv- ing dog, and similar quantities from the splenic vein, the emulgent • vein, and the vena-cava inferior, below the openings of the emulgents. iThese four quantities were taken in four separate cups. They all soon coagulated ; and if there was any one later of coagulating than another, .'it was that from the mesenteric veins. On standing twenty-four hours, ■ the coagula were all of the same firmness. §. 6. Of the Living Principle of the Blood. So far I have considered the blood, and in the common way; but all this will explain nothing in the animal ceconomy, unless we can refer it : to some principle which may sho\v the nature of its connexion v'ith the living solids in which it moves, and which it both forms and supports, i If We should find this principle to be similar to life in the solids, then w'e shall see the harmony that is supported between the tu'O, and w'e shall call it the living principle of the blood. Without some such prin- ciple, all we have been examining is like dissecting a dead body without having any reference to the living, or even knowing it ever had been alive. But, from the account I have given of the blood, it must have appeared that I have still in reserve a property not hitherto explained ; for in treating of the coagulation of the coagulating lymph I have not dark as ever; for though Hunter has pointed out their connexion with the strength and vigour of the animal (p. fi8.), Prevostand Dumas the relation which they bear to animal heat {Ann. de Ctiim., xxiii.), and Dr. Christison the correspondence which exists between them and the consumption of oxygen in respiration (Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ., xxxv. 94.), yet the exact relation which either of these phenomena bears to the cause from which it is supposed to spring is altogether a secret. It has also, with equal confidence, been asserted that the fibrin of the blood consti- tutes the basis of muscular fibre, and that it is the great intermedium by which recently divided parts are united; the albumen also has been said to afford the basis of the der- moidal, ligamentous, and membranous tissues of the body. These, however, at present must be regarded as mere conjectures, in favour of which no definite or satisfactory kind of proof has as yet been offered. If, as very probably is the case, the act of assimilation carried on in the parenchymatous structure of parts is to be regarded as of the same na- ture with secretion, then there seems no greater reason for supposing the preexistence of muscle, or brain, or ligament, ready formed in the blood, than for imagining that bile, or milk, or semen, previously exist in this fluid ; arid yet no one has yet been hardy enough to affirm that either of these secretions is discoverable in healthy blood.]GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 104 been so full in ray account as I might have been. As many phenomena respecting the coagulation or non-coagulation of the blood develop this principle, I have chosen in part to reserve it for this place; nor shall I be so full upon the present occasion as I should otherwise be were I waiting on this subject expressly; my intention being rather to explain many appearances in the animal ceconomy, and particularly the diseases I am to treat of, than to discuss this single principle. I reserve the illustration of my doctrine for such parts of the treatise as shall be employed on these subjects ; the explanations and illustrations, therefore, will be interspersed through the work, by which means they will come more forcibly on the mind. From many circumstances attending this fluid, it would seem to be the most simple body we know of endowed with the principle of life. That the blood has life is an opinion I have started for above thirty years, and have taught it for near twenty of that time, in my lectures; it does not, therefore, come out at present as a new doctrine, but has had time to meet with considerable opposition, and also acquire its advocates®. To conceive that blood is endowed with life, while circulating, is perhaps carrying the imagination as far as it well can go; but the difficulty arises merely from its being fluid, the mind not being accustomed to the idea of a living fluid*. It may * It is just as difficult for a man bom in the West Indies to conceive water becoming a solid. 1 recollect a gentleman from Barbadoes walking out with me one frosty morn- ing when there was ice on the gutters, and I, without having anything else in my mind than just common observation, said, “ It has been a frost in the night.” He im- mediately caught at the word frost, and asked me, “How I knew that?” Without thinking particularly of the cause of his question, I said, “ Because I see the ice on the gutters.” He immediately said, “ Where? ” and I answered, “ There.” Having been told that ice was a solid, he put his fingers down upon it; but with such caution as be- spoke a mind that did not know what it was to meet; and upon feeling the resistance it gave, he gently pulled his hand back, and looked at the ice, and then became more bold, broke it, and examined it. 2 [Although the doctrine of the life of the blood did not originate with Hunter, we are unquestionably indebted to him for its erection on a solid basis. His comprehen- sive mind enabled him to see more clearly than any preceding physiologist the real bearings of the question, and to devise experiments by which the specific difficulties which lay in the way might be removed. It is not alleged that the doctrine in ques- tion is demonstrable; but only that the evidence before us warrants and requires this inference,—the falsity of which has never yet been demonstrated by any of its opponents. I am not afraid of diminishing Hunter’s just fame by citing the following passages from Harvey, which fully prove that the life of the blood was maintained by that celebrated man, and maintained too by the same kind of arguments. But Hunter, in the spirit of the true English maxim, acquired his right to the property by blending his own labours with the soil; the originality of his mind improved the least thing that he borrowed, and stamped it with the imprimatur of his own genius. . “ Vita igitur in sanguine consistit (uti etiam in sacris nostris legimus,) quippe in ipsoGENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 105 therefore be obscure at first, and it will be the more necessary that I should be pretty full in my account of it; yet the illustration of it in my account of inflammation will perhaps do more to produce conviction : than any other attempt, although strongly supported by facts. It is to me somewhat astonishing that this idea did not early strike the medical inquirers, considering the stress which they have laid on the appear- ances of this fluid in diseases ; since it (i. e. the blood) is probably more expressive of disease than any other part of the animal oeconomy: and • yet all tins, according to them, must have arisen from, what shall I call i it ? a dead animal fluid, on which a disease in the solids must have had : such an effect. This, I think, is giving too much to the solids, and too little to the fluids. When all the circumstances attending this fluid are fully considered, the idea that it has life within itself may not appear so difficult to comprehend; and indeed, when once conceived, I do not see how it is possible we should think it to be otherwise, when we consider that every part is formed from the blood, that we grow out of it, and if it has not life previous to this operation, it must then acquire it in the act of forming; for we all give our assent to the existence of life in the j parts when once formed. Our ideas of life have been so much connected :> with organic bodies, and principally those endowed with visible action, that it requires a new bend to the mind to make it conceive that these vita atque anima primum elucet, ultimoque deficit Sanguis denique totum corpus adeo circumfluit et penetrat, omnibus ejus partibus calorem et vitam jugiter impertit; ut anima primo et principaliter in ipso residens, illius gratia, tota in toto et tota in qualibet parte, (ut vulgo dicitur) inesse, merito censeatur Clare constat sanguinem esse par- tem genitalem, fontem vitaj, primum vivens et ultimo moriens, sedemque animae prima- riam; in quo, tanquam in fonte, calor primo et precipue abundat, vigetque; et a quo reliqum omnes totius corporis partes, calore influente foventur et vitam obtinent. Ideoque concludimus, sanguinem per se vivere et nutriri; nulloquc modo ab alia aliqua corporis parte, velpriore vel prsestantiore dependere U trumque autem, sensutn scilicet, et mo turn, i sanguine inesse, plurimis indiciis fit conspicuum Id nunc solum dicam: licet conceda- mus, sanguinem non sentire; inde tamcn non sequitur, eum non esse corporis sensitivi partem, eamque pra;cipuam... .Habet profecto in se animam, primo ac principaliter, non vegetativam modo, sed sensitivam etiam etmotivam; permeat quoquoversunj, et nbique presens est, eodemque ablato, anima quoque ipsa statim tollitur: adeo ut sanguis ab anima nihil discrepare videatur; vel saltern substantia, cujus actus sit animus estimare debeat... .Hie, ne a proposito longius aberrem, sanguinem (cum Arislotcle) accipiendum censeo, non ut simpliciter intelligitur et cruor dicitur, sed ut corporis animalis pars vi- vens est.” (Dc Generatione, Exer. li. lii.) The following extracts from Aristotle’s first and third books, on the history of animals, : are probably those which are alluded to in the last paragraph:—“Sanguis nempe, ; instar laris familiaris, est anima ipsa in corpore et semper quamdiu vita servatur, sanguis unus animatur et fervet In sanguine reperitnr divinum quid, respondens | elemento stcllarum.” With more or less explicitness, the same doctrine was advanced by Willis (Dc Moiu Afuscul., p. 71.), Hoffman (Opera, i. 33.), Huxham (Essay on Fever), I and several other authors.106 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. circumstances are not inseparable. It is within these fifty years only that the callus of bones has been allowed to be alive *; but I shall en- deavour to show, that organization and life do not depend in the least on each other; that organization may arise out of living parts, and produce action; but that life never can arise out of, or depend on, organization. An organ is a peculiar conformation of matter (let that matter be what it may), to answer some purpose, the operation of which is mechanical: but mere organization can do nothing even in mechanics; it must still have something corresponding to a living principle, namely, some power. I had long suspected that the principle of life was not wholly confined to animals, or animal substances endowed with visible organi- zation and spontaneous motion : I conceived that the same principle existed in animal substances devoid of apparent organization and mo- tion, where there existed simply the power of preservation. I was led to this notion about the year 1755 or 1756, when I was making drawings of the growth of the chick in the process of incubation. I then observed, that whenever an egg was hatched, the yolk (which is not diminished in the time of incubation,) was always perfectly sweet to the very last; and that part of the albumen, which is not expended on the growth of the animal, some days before hatching, was also sweet, although both were kept in a heat of 103° in the hen’s egg for three weeks, and in the duck’s for four. I observed, however, that if an egg did not hatch, it became putrid in nearly the same time with any other dead animal matter; an egg, therefore, must have the power of self- preservation, or in other words, the simple principle of life. To deter- mine how far eggs would stand other tests, to prove a living principle, I made the following experimentsf. Having put a new-laid egg into a cold about 0, which froze it, I then allowed it to thaw; from this process I imagined that the preserving powers of the egg might be destroyed J. I next put this egg into the cold mixture, and with it one newly laid ; the difference in freezing was minutes, the fresh egg taking so much longer time in freezing. A new laid egg was put into a cold atmosphere, fluctuating between 17° and 15°; it took above half an hour to freeze ; but when thawed, and put into an atmosphere at 25°, viz. nine degrees warmer, it froze in half the * Dr. Hunter was the first who showed callus to be endowed with the principle of life, as much as bone. •f Phil. Trans, xlviii. pp. 28, 29 ; also Obs. on certain Parts of the Animal (Economy, 1st edit., p. 106; and vol. iv. of the present edition. | However this was at first not so certain ; but the result of the experiment proved it was so. To be more certain of killing a part by freezing it, I helieve it should be frozen very slowly, for simple Ireeziug docs not kill.GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 107 , •esult. To determine the comparative lieat between a living and a dead egg, ind also to determine whether a living egg be subject to the same laws .vith the more imperfect animals, I made the following experiments. A fresh egg, and one which had been frozen and thawed, were put into lie cold mixture at 15°; the thawed one soon came down to 32°, and regan to swell and congeal; the fresh one sunk first to 29^°, and in twenty-five minutes after the dead one it rose to 32°, and began to nvell and freeze. The result of this experiment upon the fresh egg was similar to what was observed in the like experiments upon frogs, eels, snails, &c., where life allowed the heat to be diminished 2° or 3° )clow the freezing point, and then resisted all further decrease; but in both the powers of life were expended by this exertion, and then the parts froze like any other dead animal matter. This is not a principle peculiar to life, but is common in many other cases : it has been observed that water could be so circumstanced as to be brought below the freezing point without freezing; but just as it began to freeze it rose to 32°. In my experiments on the heat of vege- tables, I observed that the sap of a tree would freeze at 32°, when taken out of the vessels ; but I found the trees themselves often so low as 15°, and the sap not frozen. From these experiments, it appears that a fresh egg has the power of resisting heat, cold, and putrefaction in a degree equal to many of the more imperfect animals, which exhibit exactly the same phenomena under the same experiments; and it is more than probable that this power arises from the same principle in both. Similar experiments have been made on the blood : after a portion of blood had been frozen, and then thawed, it has again been frozen wfith a similar quantity of fresh blood, drawn from the same person, and that which had undergone this process froze again much faster than the fresh blood*. As all the experiments I had made upon the freezing of animals, w'ith a viewr to see whether it was possible to restore the actions of life when they were again thawed, were made upon whole animals, and as I never saw life return by thawing1, I wished to ascertain how far parts were, in this respect, similar to the w'hole, especially since it was asserted, and with some authority, that parts of a man may be frozen, and may afterwards recover; for this purpose I made the following experiments upon an animal of the same order with ourselves. * Vide Corrie on the Vitality of the Blood, p. 45. Leeches have been frozen, and yet recovered. See note, vol. i. p. 281.]GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 110 terwards coagulate, as it depends in each on the life of the part not being destroyed. I took notice in the history of the coagulation of the lymph, that heat of 120° excited this action in that fluid : to see how far muscular contraction was similar in this respect, I made the follow- ing experiment*. As soon as the skin could be removed from a sheep that was newly killed, a square piece of muscle was cut off, which was afterwards di- vided into three pieces, in the direction of the fibres; each piece was put into a bason of water, the water in each bason being of different temperatures, viz. one 125°, about 27° warmer than the animal; another 98°, the heat of the animal; and the third 55°, about 43° colder than the animal. The muscle in the water heated to 125°, contracted di- rectly, so as to be half an inch shorter than the other two, and was hard and stiff. The muscle in the water heated to 98° ; after six minutes, began to contract and grow stiff; at the end of twenty minutes it was nearly, though not quite, as short and hard as the above. The muscle in the water heated to 55°; after fifteen minutes, began to shorten and grow hard; after twenty minutes it was nearly as short and as hard as that in the water heated to 98°. At the end of twenty-four hours they were all found to be of the same length and stiffness. Here, then, is also a similarity in the excitements of coagulation in the blood, and of contraction in muscles, both apparently depending on the same principle, namely, life f- If it should still be difficult to conceive how a body in a fluid state, whose parts are in constant motion upon one another, always shifting their situation with respect to themselves and the body, and which may lose a portion without affecting itself or the body, can possibly be alive, let us see if it is also difficult to conceive that a body may be so com- pounded as to make a perfect whole of itself, having no parts dissimilar, and having the same properties in a small quantity as in a great. Un- der those circumstances, the removing a portion is not taking away a constituent part, upon which the whole depends, or by which it is made a whole, but is only taking away a portion of the whole, the remaining portion being equal in quality to the whole, and in this respect is simi- lar to the reducing a whole of anything. This might be perfectly illus- trated, without straining the imagination, by considering the operation of union by the first intention. Union by the first intention is an im- mediate sympathetic harmony between divided parts when brought simply into contact, which I call contiguous sympathy. In this case it • Vide Pliil. Trans, lxvi.'p. 412, Paper on Drowning; also, Obs. on certain Parts of the Animal GSconomy, vol. iv. of this edition. t The application of this principle in disease T shall not at present take notice of.GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. Ill is not necessary that the very same parts should oppose each other, else harmony, and consequently union, could never take place; it is simply necessary that the two parts be alive, and they might be shifted from one sort of a living creature to another for ever, without any injury to , either, or without exciting irritation, and the whole would still be as perfect as ever. Neither can the motion of one living part upon another j affect the body, because all its parts are similar, and in harmony with each other. It is exactly the same with the blood, for neither its mo- : tion on itself, nor its motion on the body, can either affect it or the body, since all the parts are similar among themselves. Ihis is the case with all matter, where the property does not depend upon structure, or configuration, but upon the compound; for wTater is still water, whether its parts are moving on each other, or at rest; and a small , portion has the same property with the whole, and is in fact a smaller whole. One of the great proofs that the blood possesses life depends on the circumstances affecting its coagulation; and, at present, we are only to explain the principles upon which these are founded, which it will be in some degree necessary to recapitulate : but perhaps the strongest conviction on the mind will arise from the application of this ; principle to diseases, especially inflammation. While the blood is cir- culating it is subject to certain laws to which it is not subject when not circulating. It has the power of preserving its fluidity, which was taken notice of when treating of its coagulation; or, in other words, the living principle in the body has the power of preserving it in this state. This is not produced by motion alone, for in the colder animals, tvhen almost in a state of death during the winter, when their blood is moving with extreme slowness, and would appear to preserve simply animal life through the whole body, and keep up that dependence which exists between the blood and the body already formed, the blood does not coagulate to accomplish these purposes. If the blood had not the living principle, it would be, in respect of the body, as an extraneous substance. Blood is not only alive itself, but is the support of life in every part of the body; for mortification immediately follows when the circulation is cut off from any part, which is no more than death taking place in the part, from the want of the successive changes of fresh blood. This shows that no part of the body is to be considered as a complete living substance, producing and continuing mere life, without the blood; so that blood makes one part of the compound, without which life would neither begin nor be continued®. This circumstance, on its first ap- * [The form of the argument is here changed from mere passive life to life such as >t exists in completely organized bodies, where it always is active, and where, conse- quently, as it is quaintly enough expressed in the text, its continuance seems to be theGENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. Hl2 pearance, would seem a little extraordinary, when we consider that a part, or the whole', are completely formed in themselves, and have their nerves going to them, which are supposed to give animal life; yet that perfect living part, or whole, shall die in a little time, by simply pre- venting the blood from moving through the vessels : under this idea, it is not clear to me whether the blood dies sooner without the body, or the body without the blood. Life, then, is preserved by the compound of the two, and an animal is not perfect without the blood: but this alone is not sufficient, for the blood itself must be kept alive; because while it is supporting life in the solids, it is either losing its own, or is rendered incapable of supporting that of the body. To accomplish all this it must have motion, and that in a circle, as it is a continuance of the same blood which circulates, in which circle it is in one view su- persaturated, as it were, with living powers, and in another is deficient, having parted with them while it visited the different parts of the body. Life is in some degree, in proportion to this motion, either stronger or weaker, so that the motion of the blood may be reckoned, in some de- gree, a first moving power ; and not only is the blood alive in itself, but seems to carry life everywhere; however, it is not simply the motion, but it is that which arises out of, or in consequence of the motion. Here, then, would appear to be three parts, viz. body, blood, and motion, which latter preserves the living union between the other two, or the life in both. These three make up a complete body, out of which arises a principle of self-motion, a motion totally spent upon the machine, or which may be said to move in a circle, for the support of the whole; for the body dies without the motion of the blood upon it, and the blood dies without the motion of the body upon it; perhaps pretty nearly in equal times. So far, I have considered the blood when compounded with the body and motion, in which we find it preserves its fluidity, and continues life in the body; but fluidity is only necessary for its motion to convey life, and the continuance of life is probably owing to its being coagulated, and becoming a solid; or at least the support of the body is owing to this cause. For this, however, it requires rest, either by extravasation, or by being retained in the vessels till the utility of circulating is lost; result of “ body, blood, and motion.’’ 1 apprehend, however, the real line of argument to be, to prove that the blood and the solids possess life independently of each other,—not to make it the result of a compound of the two. It might be, and has been, with full as much propriety argued that the life of the blood is derived from the vessels, as that the life of the body is derived from the blood, for neither can continue without the other. The life of the blood is soon lost out of the body, and the body soon dies without the blood; nevertheless, a residual and independent vitality seems to reside in both for a limited space after they are separated from each other.]GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. VOL. III. j 1 13 or till it can answer some good purpose by its coagulation, as in morti- :fication. Under any of these circumstances it becomes a solid body ; • for the moment it is at rest it begins to form itself into a solid, and changes into this or that particular kind of substance, according to the stimulus of the surrounding parts which excites this coagulum into ac- tion, and makes it form within itself, blood, vessels, nerves, etc. The coagulation is the first step towards its utility in the constitution, and this arises from its living principle; for if that principle be destroyed, •it does not coagulate at all, that is, naturally, for I do not here speak of any chemical coagulation. I shall now endeavour to prove that the coagulation of the coagulat- ing lymph bears some analogy to the actions of muscles, which we know to depend upon life, and which affords one of the strongest proofs of the existence of this principle ; and though the action of coagulation itself be not similar to the actions of muscles, yet, if we can show that they are governed by the same laws, we may reasonably conclude that the first principle is the same in both. When I was treating of the coagulation of the lymph, I took notice that cold did not cause it, and supported the opinion by several experiments; at the same time I mentioned an ex- periment of Mr. Hewson, to prove the same thing, and which he con- ceived to be conclusive, but which does not appear to me in any way to affect his hypothesis (p. 26.). This experiment I had often made, but with another view, viz. to illustrate the living principle of the blood, which to me it in some measure does, more especially when compared with similar experiments on living muscles. As the coagulation of the blood is a natural process, and as all natu- ral processes have their time of action, unless influenced by some ex- citing causes, and since cold is not a cause of the blood’s coagulation, even when removed out of the circulation, the blood may be frozen much ; more quickly than it can coagulate, by which change its coagulating power is suspended. To prove this by experiment, I took a thin leaden vessel with a flat bottom, of some width, and put it into a cold mixture below 0, and allowed as much blood to run from a vein into it as covered its bottom. The blood froze immediately; and when thawed became fluid, and coagulated, I believe, as soon as it would have done had it not been frozen. As the coagulation of the blood appears to be that process which may be compared with the action of life in the solids, we shall examine this property a little further, and see if this power of coagulation can be de- stroyed : if it can, we shall next inquire if, by the same means, life is destroyed in the solids, and if the phenomena are nearly the same in both. The prevention of coagulation may be effected by electricity, and1 14 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. often is by lightning: it takes places in some deaths, and is produced in some of the natural operations of the body ; all of which I shall now consider. Animals killed by lightning, and also by electricity, have not their muscles contracted : this arises from death being instantaneously pro- duced in the muscles, which therefore cannot be affected by any sti- mulus, nor consequently by the stimulus of death*. In such cases the blood does not coagulate. Animals that are run very hard, and killed in that state, or, what produces a still greater effect, are run to death, have neither their muscles contracted nor their blood coagulated ; and in both respects the effect is in proportion to the cause *. I had two deer run till they dropped down and died : in neither did I find the muscles contracted nor the blood coagulatedb. In many kinds of death we find that the muscles neither contract nor the blood coagulate. In some cases the muscles will contract while the blood continues fluid, in some the contrary happens, and in others the blood will only coagulate to the consistence of cream. Blows on the stomach kill immediately, and the muscles do not con- tract, nor does the blood coagulate. Such deaths as prevent the con- traction of the muscles or the coagulation of the blood are, I believe, always sudden. Death from sudden gusts of passion is of this kind; and in all these cases the body soon putrefies after death. In many dis- eases, if accurately attended to, we find this correspondence between muscles and blood; for where there is strong action going on, the muscles contract strongly after death, and the blood coagulates strongly. It is unnecessary, I imagine, to relate particular instances of the ef- fects of each of these causes ; I need only mention that I have seen them all. In a natural evacuation of blood, viz. menstruation, it is * This is the reason why hunted animals are commonly more tender than those that are shot. • [These sort of expressions are evidently vague and unsatisfactory. It is a fact that muscles contract at death ; but to say that this is caused by the “ stimulus of death” adds nothing to our knowledge of the fact. It is the ascription of a negative cause, and serves but to cover our ignorance of the real cause with the cloak of a name, and that name a bad one. See p. 32, vote*-, and vol. i., p. 236, notc.~\ b [Brisk exercise rather tends to accelerate coagulation (Mayo's Physiology, p. 38 ; Prater on the Mood, p. 94.), although, if carried to the point of exhaustion, this effect is altogether prevented; that is, according to the physiological hypothesis, the stimulus of exercise, by being in excess, becomes a sedative. It is to be observed, however, that the clot, although it forms more rapidly, contracts less, both in extent and duration, than under ordinary circumstances, and runs more rapidly into putrefaction. But mus- cular contraction is obedient to precisely the same laws, and hence the argument for the analogy of these phenomena, and that coagulation must consequently be a vital process.]GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 115 neither similar to blood taken from a vein of the same person, nor to ; that which is extravasated by an accident in any other part of the body, ’but is a species of blood changed, separated, or thrown off from the com- mon mass by an action of the vessels of the uterus, similar to that of se- cretion ; by which action the blood loses the principle of coagulation, and I suppose life (p. 35.). The natural deduction from all these facts and observations I think is perfectly easy ; it is impossible to miss it. This living principle in the blood, which 1 have endeavoured to show :.to be similar in its effects to the living principle in the solids, owes its existence to the same matter which belongs to the other, and is the ma- teria vitae diffusa, of which every part of an animal has its portion* : it >is, as it were, diffused through the whole solids and fluids, making a necessary constituent part of them, and forming with them a perfect whole; giving to both the power of preservation, and the susceptibility of •impression, and, from their construction, giving them consequent reci- procal action. This is the matter which principally composes the brain; and where there is a brain, there must necessarily be parts to connect it with the rest of the body, which are the nerves ; and as the use of ' the nerves is to continue, and therefore convey, the impression or action -of the one to the other, these parts of communication must necessarily •be of the same matter; for any other matter could not continue the same action. From this it may be understood that nothing material is conveyed from the brain by the nerves, nor, vice versd, from the body to the brain; for if that was exactly the case, it would not be necessary for the nerves to be of the same materials with the brain : but as we find the nerves of the same materials, it is a presumptive proof that they only continue the same action which they receive at either end. The blood has as much the materia vitae as the solids, winch keeps up that harmony between them; and as every part endued with this prin- ciple has a sympathetic affection upon simple contact, so as to affect each other, (which I have called contiguous sympathy,) so the blood and the body are capable of affecting and being affected by each other ; which accounts for that reciprocal influence which each has on the other. The blood being evidently composed of the same materials with the body, being endued with the same living powers, but from its unsettled state * 1 consider that something similar to the materials of the brain is diffused through the body, and even contained in the blood ; between this and the brain a communica- tion is kept up by the nerves, i have, therefore, adopted terms explanatory of this theory ; calling the brain the materia vita coacervata; the nerves, the chorda; inter- nunci® ; and that diffused through the body, the materia vita: diffusa.114 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. often is by lightning: it takes places in some deaths, and is produced in some of the natural operations of the body ; all of which I shall now consider. Animals killed by lightning, and also by electricity, have not their muscles contracted : this arises from death being instantaneously pro- duced in the muscles, which therefore cannot be affected by any sti- mulus, nor consequently by the stimulus of death*. In such cases the blood does not coagulate. Animals that are run very hard, and killed in that state, or, what produces a still greater effect, are run to death, have neither their muscles contracted nor their blood coagulated ; and in both respects the effect is in proportion to the cause *. I had two deer run till they dropped down and died : in neither did I find the muscles contracted nor the blood coagulated b. In many kinds of death we find that the muscles neither contract nor the blood coagulate. In some cases the muscles will contract while the blood continues fluid, in some the contrary happens, and in others the blood will only coagulate to the consistence of cream. Blows on the stomach kill immediately, and the muscles do not con- tract, nor does the blood coagulate. Such deaths as prevent the con- traction of the muscles or the coagulation of the blood are, I believe, always sudden. Death from sudden gusts of passion is of this kind; and in all these cases the body soon putrefies after death. In many dis- eases, if accurately attended to, we find this correspondence between muscles and blood ; for where there is strong action going on, the muscles contract strongly after death, and the blood coagulates strongly. It is unnecessary, I imagine, to relate particular instances of the ef- fects of each of these causes ; I need only mention that I have seen them all. In a natural evacuation of blood, viz. menstruation, it is * This is the reason why hunted animals arc commonly more tender than those that are shot. * [These sort of expressions are evidently vague and unsatisfactory. It is a fact that muscles contract at death ; but to say that this is caused by the “ stimulus of death” adds nothing to our knowledge of the fact. It is the ascription of a negative cause, and serves but to cover our ignorance of the real cause with the cloak of a name, and that name a bad one. See p. 32, note*; and vol. i., p. 236, note.'] b [Brisk exercise rather tends to accelerate coagulation (Mayo's Physiology, p. 38 : Prater on the Blood, p. 94.), although, if carried to the point of exhaustion, this effect is altogether prevented ; that is, according to the physiological hypothesis, the stimulus of exercise, by being in excess, becomes a sedative. It is to be observed, however, that the clot, although it forms more rapidly, contracts less, both in extent and duration, than under ordinary circumstances, and runs more rapidly into putrefaction. But mus- cular contraction is obedient to precisely the same laws, and hence the argument for the analogy of these phenomena, and that coagulation must consequently be a vital process.]GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 115 neither similar to blood taken from a vein of the same person, nor to that which is extravasated by an accident in any other part of the body, but is a species of blood changed, separated, or thrown off from the com- mon mass by an action of the vessels of the uterus, similar to that of se- ■ cretion; by which action the blood loses the principle of coagulation, and I suppose life (p. 35.). The natural deduction from all these facts and observations I think is j perfectly easy ; it is impossible to miss it. This living principle in the blood, which I have endeavoured to show i to be similar in its effects to the living principle in the solids, owes its i existence to the same matter which belongs to the other, and is the ma- ; teria vitae diffusa, of which every part of an animal has its portion* : it ■ i is, as it were, diffused through the whole solids and fluids, making a : necessary constituent part of them, and forming with them a perfect whole ; giving to both the power of preservation, and the susceptibility of impression, and, from their construction, giving them consequent reci- procal action. This is the matter which principally composes the brain; and where there is a brain, there must necessarily be parts to connect i it with the rest of the body, which are the nerves ; and as the use of I the nerves is to continue, and therefore convey, the impression or action (of the one to the other, these parts of communication must necessarily ; be of the same matter; for any other matter could not continue the same action. From this it may be understood that nothing material is conveyed from the brain by the nerves, nor, vice versd, from the body to the brain; for if that was exactly the case, it would not be necessary for the nerves to be of the same materials with the brain : but as we find the nerves of the same materials, it is a presumptive proof that they only continue the same action which they receive at either end. The blood has as much the materia vitrn as the solids, which keeps up that harmony between them ; and as every part endued with this prin- ciple has a sympathetic affection upon simple contact, so as to affect each other, (which I have called contiguous sympathy,) so the blood and the body are capable of affecting and being affected by each other ; which accounts for that reciprocal influence which each has on the other. The blood being evidently composed of the same materials with the body, being endued with the same living powers, but from its unsettled state * I consider that something similar to the materials of the brain is diffused through the body, and even contained in the blood ; between this and the brain a communica- tion is kept up by the nerves. I have, therefore, adopted terms explanatory of this theory; calling the brain the materia vitae coacervata; the nerves, the chorda; inter- nuncioe ; and that diffused through the body, the materia vitae diffusa. I 2116 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. having no communication with the brain, is one of the strongest proofs of the materia vita: making part of the composition of the body, inde- pendently of the nerves, and is similar in this respect to those inferior orders of animals that have no nerves, where every other principle of the animal is diffused through the whole0. This opinion cannot be proved by experiment; but I think daily experience shows us that the living principle in the body acts exactly upon the same principle with the brain. Every part of the body is susceptible of impression, and the materia vita: of every part is thrown into action, which, if continued to the brain, produces sensation; but it [the materia vitae] may only be such as to throw the part impressed into such actions as it is capable of, ac- cording to the kind of impression; so does the brain or mind. The body loses impression by habit, so does the brain; it continues action from habit, so does the brain. The body, or parts of the body, have a recollection of former impressions when impressed anew; so has the brain : but they have not spontaneous memory as the brain has, because the brain is a complete whole of itself, and therefore its actions are com- plete in themselves. The materia vitae of the body being diffused, makes a [Thus no muscular fibres have yet been detected in the homogeneous parenchyma of the freshwater Polype, the Medusa, and several other species of zoophytes, although a species of contractility plainly resides in every part of these animals. In the Acrita there are no distinct nervous filaments; the digestive organ is excavated in the paren- chyma of the body, and is devoid of distinct parietes; the vascular system consists merely of reticulate canals, in the substance of the body, devoid of proper tunics, in which a cyclosis of the nutrient fluids is observed, analogous to that of plants, but not a true circulation; and generation is accomplished by spontaneous fission, or gemmation. All the different systems, in short, are blended together in these polymorphous animals, analogous to what occurs in the ova or germs of the higher classes; and where even a distinct organ happens to be eliminated, it is often repeated indefinitely in the same in- dividual, as in polypi, where the nutritious tubes of one individual are generally sup- plied by numerous mouths, which give it the semblance of a composite animal. The Polygastrica derive their name from an analogous multiplication of their digestive organ; and in the Tami®, each joint of the animal is the seat of a separate ovary. In these, which may be considered as the first steps of animal organization, we may observe a close resemblance to vegetables. There is no attempt or approach to centralization, but all the properties or functions of the animal (for which in the higher orders distinct or- gans are appropriated) are enjoyed by and reside in equally every part, and confer on every part an individuality of existence which enables it, when separated from the whole, to exist, to grow, and to reproduce as a complete animal. The knowledge of these facts by Hunter may serve to show the extent of his infor- mation on comparative anatomy, and the powers which he possessed of generalization ; but I look upon it as a still higher proof of the activity of his genius, to have applied so unexpected a truth to the illustration of the life of the blood. In the ensuing note I shall have occasion to notice the error into which many physiologists have fallen in expounding this part of Mr. Hunter’s doctrines. See note, vol. i. p. 260; and Cyclop, oj Anal. and Phys., art. Acrita.]GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF TIIE BLOOD. 117 part of the body in which it exists, and acts for this part, and probably for this part alone. The whole, taken together, hardly makes a whole, • so as to constitute wrhat might be called an organ, the action of which •is always for some other purpose than itself: but this is not the case with the brain. The brain is a mass of this matter, not diffused through anything for the purpose of that thing, but constituting an organ in itself, the actions of which are for other purposes, viz. receiving, by means of the nerves, the vast variety of actions in the diffused materia vitae which arise from impression and habit, combining these, and disti- nguishing from what part they come. The whole of these actions form • the mind, and, according to the result, react so as to impress more or dess of the materia vitae of the body in return, producing in such parts consequent actions. The brain, then, depends upon the body for its impression, which is sensation, and the consequent action is that of the mind ; and the body depends upon the consequence of this intelli- .gence, or effect of this mind, called the will, to impress it to action; but such [sensation and action] are not spent upon itself, but are for other purposes, and are called voluntary. But mere composition of matter does not give life ; for the dead body has all the composition it ever had. Life is a property we do not under- • stand ; we can only see the necessary leading steps towards it. If nerves, either of themselves or from their connexion with the brain, gave vitality to our solids, how should a solid continue life after a nerve is destroyed ? or, still more, when paralytic ? for the part continues to be nourished, although not to the same full health as where voluntary action exists : and this nourishment is the blood ; for deprive it of the blood, and it mortifies. The uterus, in the time of pregnancy, increases in substance and size, probably fifty times beyond what it naturally is; and this increase is made up of living animal matter, which is capable of action within itself. I think we may suppose its action more than double; for the action of every individual part of this viscus, at this period, is much increased, even beyond its increase of size, and yet we find that the nerves of this part are not in the smallest degree increased. This shows that the nerves and brain have nothing to do with the actions of a part, -while the vessels whose uses are evident increase in proportion to the increased size : if the same had taken place with the nerves, we should have rea- soned from analogy. It is probably impossible to say where the living principle first begins in the blood; whether in the chyle itself, or not till that fluid mixes with the other blood, and receives its influence from the lungs. I am, however, rather inclined to think that the chyle is itself alive; for we find it coagulates when extravasated ; it has theGENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 118 same powers of separation with the blood ; and it acquires its power of action in the lungs as the venal blood does [p. 67, note.']. I conceive this [viz. the action of the air on the chyle] to be similar to the influ- ence of the male and female on an egg, which requires air and a due warmth to produce the principle of action in it, and somewhat similar to the venal blood coming to the lungs to receive new powers, which it communicates to the body. To endeavour to prove whether the chyle had the power of action in itself, similar to the blood, I made the fol- lowing experiment. I opened the abdomen of a dog, and punctured one of the largest lacteals at the root of the mesentery, out of which flowed a good deal of chyle, I then allowed this part to come in contact with another part of the mesentery, to see if they would unite, as extravasated blood does; but they did not. However, this experiment, though performed twice, is not conclusive ; for similar experiments with blood might not have succeeded. From what has been said with regard to the blood, that it becomes a solid when extravasated in the body, we must suppose that some mate- rial purpose is answered by it; for if the blood could only have been of use in a fluid state, its solidity would not have been so much an object with nature. It appears to me to be evident that its fluidity is only in- tended for its motion, and its motion is only to convey life and living materials to every part of the body. These materials, when carried, become solid; so that solidity is the ultimate end of the blood, as blood. The blood, when it naturally increases the body or repairs a part, may be said to be extravasated, although it is not commonly so consi- dered : what is usually understood by extravasation is when blood is effused from some accident, or from disease in the vessels, when of course it becomes obvious to the sight; but even this extravasation is of use, by the blood coagulating, although too often it is in too large a quantity. Accident does not calculate the size of the vessel ruptured to be just equal to the effect wanted by the rupture; but nature has made a wise provision for this overplus. As extravasation arises from a rupture of a vessel, it is of sendee in the reunion of that vessel: if there are more solids ruptured than a vessel, as in a fracture of a bone, it becomes a bond of union to those parts; and this may be called union by the first intention: but the union is not that of the two parts to each other, but the union of the broken parts to the intermediate extravasated blood; so that it is the blood and parts uniting which constitutes the union by the first in- tention.GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 119 This blood, so extravasated, either forms vessels in itself, or vessels -shoot out from the original surface of contact into it, forming an elon- gation of themselves, as we have reason to suppose they do in granula- tions. I have reason, however, to believe that the coagulum has the power, under necessary circumstances, to form vessels in and of itself; for I have already observed, that coagulation, although not organic, is still of a peculiar form, structure, or arrangement, so as to take on ne- cessary action, which I should suppose is somewhat similar to muscular action. I think I have been able to inject what I suspected to be the beginning of a vascular formation in a coagulum, when it could not de- rive any vessels from the surrounding parts. By injecting the crural artery of a stump, above the knee, where there was a small pyramidal coagulum, I have filled this coagulum with my injection, as if it had 5 been cellular; but there was no regular structure of vessels. When I compare this appearance with that of many violent inflammations on surfaces where the red blood is extravasated, forming, as it were, specks of extravasation like stars, and which, when injected, produce the same ' appearance with what I have described in the injection of the coagu- lum ; when I compare these again with the progress of vascularity in t the membranes of the chick ; where one can perceive a zone of specks beyond the surface of regular vessels close to the chick, similar to the above extravasation, and which in a few hours become vascular, I con- ceive that these parts have a power of forming vessels within themselves, all of them acting upon the same principle. But where this coagulum can form an immediate union with the surrounding parts, it either re- ceives vessels at this surface, or forms vessels first at this union, which communicate with those of the surrounding surface; and they either shoot deeper and deeper, or form vessels deeper and deeper, in the coa- gulum, till they all meet in its centre. If it is by the first mode, viz. the shooting of vessels from the surrounding surfaces into the coagulum, ' then it may be the ruptured vessels, in cases of accident, which shoot into the coagulum; and where a coagulum, or extravasation of coagu- lable lymph, is thrown in between two [sound] surfaces only contiguous, there it may be the exhaling vessels of those surfaces which now become the vessels of the part. In whatever way they meet in the centre, they instantly embrace, unite, or inosculate. Now this is all perfectly and easily conceived among living parts, but not otherwise. As the coagulum, whether wholly blood or coagulating lymph alone, has the materia vitae in its composition, which is the cause of all the above actions, it soon opens a communication with the mind, forming within itself nerves. Nerves have not the power of forming themselves into longer chords, as we conceive vessels to have; for we know thatGENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 120 in the union of a cut nerve, where a piece has been taken out, it is by means of the blood forming a union of coagulum, and that the coagulum gradually becomes more and more of the texture, and has, of course, more and more the use, of a nerve, somewhat similar to the gradual change of blood into a bone in fractures. It would appear, then, that the blood is subservient to two purposes in an animal: the one is the sujtport of the matter of the body when formed, the other is the support of the different actions of the body a. * [On Life.—Although it would be foreign to the object of these notes to enter into a lengthened discussion on the nature of life in general, 1 shall, 1 trust, need no apology for presenting the reader with a condensed view of Mr. Hunter’s opinions on the sub- ject, since by so doing I shall furnish him with the means of more clearly comprehend- ing the nature, and more exactly estimating the value, of the arguments adduced by the author in support of his peculiar views respecting the life of the blood. Mr. Hunter had a great dislike to definitions, for, said he, a definition allows one “ to bring together a thousand things that have not the least connexion with itand for this reason probably he has abstained from setting forth, in the shape of a formal definition, his notions of life in the abstract. As it is necessary, however, when speak- ing of life, to fix on at least some of its essential properties by which to recognise its presence or absence, I shall take as a definition the short statement Mr. Hunter has made in his lectures, Vol. i. p. 223, of what he calls the most simple ideas of life. 1. “The first and most simple idea of life,” says he, “is its being the principle of self-preservation.” 2. “ The second is its being the principle of action,” or, as he has elsewhere stated it, “ the susceptibility to impression, with a consequent power of action.” “ These are two very different properties, though arising from the same principle,” and will require separate consideration. I. Of the principle of self-preservation.—“ By the living principle,” says Mr. Hunter, “ I mean to express that principle which prevents matter from fallinginto dissolution,— resisting heat, cold, and putrefaction I have asserted that life simply is the principle of preservation, preserving it from putrefaction.” Bodies belonging to the animal and vegetable kingdoms, considered as mere chemical compounds, must, from the energetic affinities of their component elements, be exceedingly prone to spontaneous decompo- sition ; nevertheless, we find them, when in a living state, existing unchanged, often for a great length of time, although placed under external influences the most favourable for the operation of these affinities. Thus, seeds retain their vitality for years, if not for centuries, when buried deep in the soil; during the process of incubation, the yolk, and also a part of the albumen, of the egg, remain perfectly sweet to the last, though subjected from three to four weeks to a temperature of 103°; or, on the other hand, a fresh egg will resist the influence of a freezing mixture considerably longer than an egg the vitality of which has been destroyed by previous freezing, and, as in the case of some of the inferior animals, it will not allow its temperature to be reduced more than two or three degrees below the freezing-point, until the powers of life are exhausted, when it congeals, and assumes the temperature of the surrounding medium. Again, animals will exist and grow in the stomach, resisting the powers of digestion as long as they live; but where, as their vitality ceases, they are immediately digested. What, then, is it that confers on animal and vegetable substances this power of resistance to the influence of external agents tending to their destruction ? The theory which Mr. Hunter maintains is, that life is a simple principle, snperadded to the common properties of matter in these bodies. “ Animal and vegetable sub-121 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. §.7. Some unconnected Experiments respecting the Blood. The following experiments have rather been imagined than fully ex- ecuted, and the subject is rather broached and touched upon than pro- stances,” says he, “ differ from common matter, in having a power superadded totally different from any other known property of matter, out of which arise various new properties: it cannot arise out of any peculiar modification of matter, but appears to be something superadded Mere composition of matter does not give life, for the dead body has all the composition it ever had This principle exists in animal substances devoid of apparent organization and motion Organization and life do not depend the least on each otheror rather, are not necessarily connected. “ Organization may arise out of living parts, and produce action; but life can never arise out of, or depend on, organization Organization and life are two different things.” This opinion respecting life in its most simple form seems, from the frequency and explicitness with which it is announced, and from its being that which he adopted in his work on Inflammation, to be the opinion which Mr. Hunter considered as most probably true. We do, however, find him here and there propounding views somewhat at variance with the above; but this arose probably from the habit of always keeping his mind open to conviction ; or from an unwillingness to bind himself to any opinions which did not rest on the most unequivocal proofs, rather than from his considering these as affording more satisfactory explanations of the phenomena of life than the former. First, he seems to have had some doubts whether life might not be regarded as an effect of the arrangement of the ultimate molecules of matter, as distinguished from or- ganization of a more apparent kind. “ Life, then, appears to be something superadded to this peculiar modification of matter; or this modification of matter is so arranged, that the principle of life arises out of the arrangement; and this peculiar disposition of parts may be destroyed, and still the modification from which it is called animal matter remain the same. If the latter be the true explanation, this arrangement of parts on which life should depend would not be that position of parts necessary to the formation of a whole part, or an organ, for that is probably a mechanical, or at least an organical arrangement; but just a peculiar arrangement of the most simple particles, giving rise to a principle of preservation the arrangement for preservation, which is life, be- comes the principle of action, not the power of action We have hitherto traced animal matter from its change from common matter to animal matter, the particles of which have possessed such an arrangement as to produce life.” It must, I think, be conceded, that such an arrangement of the ultimate molecules as is above alluded to, may exist even in those forms of animal and vegetable matter which, to our limited powers of observation, appear to possess no traces of organization, as the albumen and yolk of an egg; and further, that those phenomena of life which are percep- tible to our senses, may be necessarily connected with, nay, dependent on, such an ar- rangement. Iiut even this admission only carries us back one step further, namely, to inquire what is the agent or cause, under the influence of which this arrangement of molecules is effected and preserved? Is it one of those agents under the control of which the arrangements and changes in unorganized matter are effected, as attraction, galvanism, &c.; or is it a principle distinct from these? Now it is evident that here our reason is at fault, and will not enable us to reply conclusively to this question, since neither the cause itself, nor the first links in the chain of effects, supposing the aboveGENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 122 secuted; but as I have not time at present to go through with the ex- periments, so as to arrive at some general result, I thought it better to notion of a peculiar arrangement of ultimate particles be correct, are within the reach of our observation. We want data, and therefore we must be content to limit our in- quiries to the more obvious phenomena of life ; to examine its laws and modes of action, and to ascertain how far these coincide with those of the other agents above mentioned. If we adopt this course,—and it is the only one by which wTe can hope to arrive at a solution of the problem,—we shall, I think, be obliged to admit the existence of some principle or agent distinct from those which govern unorganized bodies. In these we find nothing analogous to the vital phenomena of irritability, contractility, the nervous influence, &c., not to mention that a broad line of distinction seems also to exist in re- gard to the chemical composition, intimate structure, mode of growth, form, duration, &c. of these two classes of bodies. These marks of distinction are broad and obvious, and should make us careful in admitting the identity of the causes by which they are produced with others of which the effects are so very dissimilar, merely on the ground of some hastily admitted analogy. We are by no means to abstain from inquiring how far the ordinary laws of matter are employed in producing effects in organized bodies; but we should at the same time be prepared, when these laws will not account for the phenomena observed, to admit, the influence of another agent, the vital principle, the laws of which are to be patiently sought out and understood before we undertake to decide on its identity with other and apparently dissimilar agents. In reference to this subject, Mr. Hunter was accustomed to employ the illustration of magnetism, which may be generated by holding a bar of iron at a particular angle with the horizon. “ A bar of iron without magnetism may be considered like animal matter without life; set it upright, and it acquires a new property of attraction and re- pulsion at its different ends. Now is this any substance added ? or is it a certain change which takes place in the arrangement of the particles of iron giving it this property ?" I apprehend that no oue will be disposed to object to this illustration as a simple help to apprehension, however unphilosophical it may be to extend the parallelism to its ut- most limits, as Mr. Abernethy has done with respect to electricity. I have met with nothing in Mr. Hunter’s published or posthumous writings which warrants, or in the least degree countenances, the opinion that these principles are identifiable; the analogy is wholly fallacious; nor is there, so far as I am aware, any single instance in which the principle of electricity has ever produced the proper and genuine effects of the principle of life. It has 1 know been asserted by Dr. Wilson Philip (E.rper. Enquiry, 2nd edit. p. 246), that galvanism performs all the functions of the nervous influence ; that it excites the muscles ; that it effects the secretions of the stomach ; and that it occasions the evolution of caloric: but it may be replied, 1st, that many other stimuli affect the muscles besides galvanism ; 2nd, that digestion is not materially affected when the eighth pair of nerves is divided on the oesophagus; and 3rd, that the phenomena of animal heat are more easily explicable on chemical principles. Dr. Alison (Physiology, 2nd edit. p. 110c/ seq.) has fully and in my opinion most satisfactorily refuted this doctrine, to the support of which the name and authority of Hunter have been most unwarrantably adduced. Secondly, the existence of the living principle is ascribed to the materia viler diffusa, “ of which every part of an animal has its portion ; i. c. something similar to the brain diffused through the whole solids and fluids, making a necessary constituent part of them, and forming with them a perfect whole, giving to both the power of preservation, &c.”; but this, I apprehend, is not to be taken literally, for “ as the brain and nerves are composed of animal matter, and as that animal matter has life, or the first principleGENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 123 bring forward what, in my opinion, should be done, than to omit the ^subject altogether*. • Many of these experiments were repeated, by my desire, by Dr. Physic, now of Philadelphia, when he acted as house-surgeon at St. George’s Hospital, whose accuracy 1 I could depend upon. >— of action in common with all the other matter composing the whole body,” it must be t evident that the author did not mean to identify the living principle with a tangible i material substance ; I presume his meaning to be simply that something corresponding ; to cerebral matter is diffused through all living substances, and serves as the inter- i medium by which the sympathy of living parts is maintained. This is rendered pro- 1 bable by what has been said in the previous note ; but to suppose that he considered . this cerebral matter us identical with life, is totally irreconcileable with the supposition : formerly made, of a superadded principle. Every part, then, whether organized or unorganized, solid or fluid, “ where there exists simply the power of preservation,” is supposed to possess this simple principle of life. It is on this principle that the horticulturist perforins the operation of grafting; that the testicles of a cock may be made to grow in the belly of a hen, and a man’s tooth in the comb of a cock. It must be evident that the detached parts would, if not alive, act as foreign substances in these cases, and stimulate the living parts to throw : them off. Perhaps the most striking proof that life is not a mere emanation from the 1 brain, or any other individual centre, but inheres in every part, is to be found in the . irritability of muscles when separated from the body after death. In warm-blooded l animals this does not last many minutes, but it endures for a long time in cold-blooded animals. Thus, according to Sir B. Brodie, “ the head of a turtle was still alive, and bit at objects which were presented to it, many hours after it had been separated from the trunk”; and “ the heart of a sturgeon, inflated from the mouth and hung up to dry, pulsated regularly for ten hours, the auricles continuing their action even when so dry as actually to create a rustling noise Oxygen, hydrogen, carbonic acid, and nitrogen produced the same effect on the heart of a snapper.” (Mitchell in Amer. Journ., vii. 58.) “ The living principle [therefore] is essential to every part, and is as much the property of it as gravity is of every particle of matter composing a whole Every individual particle of the living body, then, is possessed of life, and the least imaginable part which we can separate is as much alive as the whole.” But it by no means follows, because every particular part of the body possesses a prin- ciple of life independent of the effect which arises from their union as one system, that therefore this principle is independent of matter. We can with difficulty conceive of any of the powers of matter apart from, and independent of, the substances in which they reside ; although, from the manner in which heat, electricity, magnetism, &c. are capable of being transferred from one substance to another, we conventionally agree to speak of these agencies as independent substances, or at least as superadded principles. Blumenbach supposes every living particle to be endowed with a formative principle (nisus formativus), as contradistinguished from the peculiar mode of life (vita propria) enjoyed by each organ or structure. The former is the same in all parts, and in that energy by which, under different modifications, nutrition, reparation, and generation are accomplished ; the latter is peculiar to each part, and is that by virtue of which, concurring with other parts, the complex phenomenon of systemic life is preserved (iiber den Jiilriungstrieb, &e.). This appears to me to be only another mode of expressing what was meant by Hunter, who says, that “ although life may appear very compounded124 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. I wished to see if blood that coagulated with an inflammatory crust putrefied later than that which coagulated without it; for I conceived that the strength of coagulation was something similar to the strength in its effects in a complicated animal like man, it is as simple in him as in the most simple animal, and is reducible to one single property in every animal.” The resistance to putrefaction which arises from the possession of the principle of life, and which, in fact, is the only genuine indication of its presence in many cases, is not, as Richerandsupposes, a “secondary effect, depending on the exercise of the func- tions,” because function presupposes organization, but proceeds from a simple principle of antagonism, just as gravity resists force, or one chemical affinity is balanced by another. I am speaking here only of the most simple substances ; for in completely organized bodies the resistance which is opposed to external agencies is undoubtedly to be regarded as a phenomenon of a mixed kind. Life then, according to this first and most simple idea of it, consists in a property of matter superadded to and different from all other known agencies, whereby substances otherwise extremely prone to be acted upon by external causes are enabled to preserve themselves from dissolution. It exists independently of visible organization and spon- taneous motion, and it inheres more or less in every living part, although not perhaps always in every part in equal intensity. Of its nature or immediate proximate cause we are entirely ignorant, except that a peculiar chemical and perhaps organical consti- tution of bodies always accompanies it, which may be either its cause or its effect, or a collateral effect of the same cause; but at present we are compelled to regard it as an ultimate fact. II. The principle of action, or susceptibility to impression and consequent power of action.—“ It was notsuflicient that animal matter should be endowed with this first prin- ciple of self-preservation; it was necessary that it should have action or motion within itself. This does not necessarily arise out of the arrangement for preservation. On the other hand, the arrangement for preservation, which is life, becomes the principle of action, not the power of action; for the power of action is a step further. The power of action must arise from a particular formation of those living parts; for before action can lake place, the matter must be arranged with this view. This is generally effected by the union of two or more living parts, so united as to allow of motion on each other, which motion tjie principle of action is capable of effecting when so disposed.” The impressions and actions thence ensuing will vary infinitely amongst themselves, accord- ing to the complexity of the organization, “producing thereby infinite variety, both in all natural and diseased acts.” Now incitability and the power of acting under stimuli are the common fundamental properties of all organized beings, and of all the parts of those beings ; but these qua- lities are differently designated, according to the different tissues in which they are manifested: irritability in muscles, sensibility in nerves, contractility in membranes, and so forth. This state of receptivity and action are carefully however to be distin- guished from that power on which these qualities depend, viz. the vital principle, of which we know nothing except from its effects. “ Life is a property we do not under- stand : we only see the necessary steps leading to it.” But although “ life is not action,” yet “it is continued and supported by it when it takes place. Action creates a necessity of support, and furnishes it. It is not neces- sary that action should continue in all parts ; in some it is necessary that the principle or power of action should be continued, but in others it is necessary that action should take place even for the preservation of the power of action.” Such arc the leading outlines, as they appear to me, of Mr. Hunter’s doctrines of life;GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 125 of contraction in a muscle, resisting putrefaction. For this purpose I ordered the following experiments to be made. Four ounces of blood were taken from the arm, which, after coagula- i according to which it would appear that the principle of life may exist both in a passive and in an active state ; in a passive state generally only where there is no apparent or- . ganization, but in an active state wherever organization is developed. It has been con- sidered by several modern physiologists, that as we are entirely ignorant of the nature of life, we ought to reject all such expressions as principle of life, vital principle, &c. as vague and indeterminate abstractions ; but surely the same grounds exist for banishing the term principle altogether from our vocabularies. In the analysis of complex phe- nomena we ascend to ultimate facts, for which we assign some unknown causes, dif- ferently denominated forces, principles, or powers of matter, which have been likened to the unknown algebraical quantities x and y; and the determination of the laws by which : these operate, constitutes the sole business of the philosopher. I do not, therefore, agree in the following observation of Majendie: “ De toutes les illusions dans lesquelles sont tombes quelques physiologistes modernes, l’une des plus deplorables est d’avoir crus, en forgeant un mot principe vital, ou force vitale, avoir fait quelque chose d’analogue a la : decouverte de la pesanteur universelle(Physiologic, p. 14.) but rather in the remark iof Prout, “ that it is absolutely necessary to assume the existence of some agency dif- i ferent from and superior to that which operates among inorganic matters,” (Bridgewater Treatise, p. 442.) whether this agency be called life, the principle of life, or merely or- s ganic agencies. The circumstances under which this principle is usually manifested are infinitely com- plicated, arising partly from the reaction of the different parts on each other, and partly l from the introduction into the living organism of most of those powers which operate on i inorganic bodies, which the principle of life has the power more or less of modifying and counteracting, in subserviency to its own purposes. The animal body may be re- garded as an intricate piece of machinery, arranged in perfect accordancy with the pre- existing properties of matter, so as to admit of the agency of those properties for the ac- complishment of its own ends: thus we see various apparatuses, as the eye, the ear, the heart, the joints, &c., contrived in perfect conformity with the laws of light, of sound, of fluids, and of force. Gravity is still gravity in organized as well as in unorganized bodies; and the phenomena of endosmose and exosmose, of evaporation, elasticity, im- bibition, and chemical affinity, plainly evince that these properties exist as well in living as in dead bodies, and even enter as essential elements into all the vital and most im- portant functions of the body. Physiology, in short, is a complex science, presenting phenomena which proceed from the combined operation of chemical, physical, and vital agencies, harmoniously intermixed, but in which the vital principle holds a sort of su- premacy, directing and modifying all the subordinate agencies to its own definite ends, besides producing effects which are not refcrrible to any other power. It seems, how- ever, as Sir E. Home observes, “ to be a rule of the animal ceconomy, that the laws o life should not be employed when the mechanical or chemical laws of matter will an- swer the purpose.” (Led. on Comp. Anal., v. 477.) Having admitted the possibility of the self-organization of blood and coagulable lymph, it appears to me that Hunter has not been quite consistent in limiting his notion of ac- tion so strictly as he has done. He speaks as if action could only take place in parts visibly organized, as, for instance, in the muscles; but we know that action does and must commence in the egg, where no previous organization of parts has existed, and therefore necessarily precedes organization ; somewhat, perhaps, as crystals are seen to gather in a fluid evaporating under the microscope. It may perhaps be replied, that theGENERAL PRINCIPLES OP TUB BLOOD. 12G tion, had the inflammatory crust upon its surface, and was also cupped. On the same day, four ounces of blood were taken from another per- alburaen and yolk of the egg are imperfectly organized, in as much as they exhibit evident traces of stratification and a granular arrangement after they are boiled, just in the same manner as the crystalline lens of the eye: this latter body, which appears of a perfectly homogeneous and gelatinous consistence in its natural state, is found, on more minute inquiry, to be composed of upwards of five millions of fibres, which curiously interlock one another by an elaborate mechanism. I do not see, however, how this removes the difficulty; for as the albumen is unquestionably secreted, in the first place, into the ovi- duct as a fluid, it must on this supposition organize itself; which is all that is pretended to be said. To argue, as some have done, that because life proceeds only from life, by an uninterrupted succession from the creation, therefore life is the result of organization, appears to me an instance of false logic, unless it can previously be proved, either that the albumen is not alive, or that, being alive, it is secreted already organized into the oviduct; neither of which propositions appears to me tenable. I shall now briefly advert to the opinions of other physiologists, especially of those who have rejected the idea of a vital principle. These have been compelled to give some definition of life, and the following are examples. “ L'ensemble des fonctions qui resistent a la mort.” (Bichat.) “ Une collection des phenomenes qui se succedent, pen- dant un temps limite.” (Richeraml.) “ Life is the assemblage of all the functions, and the general result of their exercise,” or, in other words, “ the result of the mutual actions and reactions of all parts.” (Lawrence.) “ Life, then, consists of a continued series of actions and reactions, ever varying, yet constantly tending to definite ends.” (Roget.) The term life “ is applied to a certain assemblage and succession of phenomena.” (Ali- son.) “ Life is constituted by the conjoined operation of many actions.” (Boslock.) “ Life is simply an effect, the efficient cause of which is beyond the limits of human in- vestigation. It is not a principle or source of action.” (Grainger.) “ L’idfee dc la vie est une de cesidees generates et obscures produites en nous par certaines suites de phe- nombnes, que nous voyons se succeder dans un ordre constant, et se tenir par des rap- ports mutuels. Quoiquc nous ignorions la nature du lien qui les unit, nous sentons que ce lien doit exister, et celanous suffit pour nous les faire designer par un nom que bien- tot le vulgaire regarde comme le signe d'un principe particulier, quoiqu’en effet ce nom ne puisse jamais indiquer que l'ensemble des phenomenes qui ontdonn£ lien it sa for- mation Ce mouveinent g6n£ral et commun de toutes les parties est tellement ce que fait l’essence de la vie.” (Cuvier.) Now the objection to all these definitions is, that they deal merely with the effects arising from the presence of life, or of the vital principle, and do not touch the question at issue, viz. of the nature of the principle itself. Let us apply these sort of definitions to some analogous subject of inquiry, and we shall more readily understand this. Suppose, for instance, that a person wanted to ascertain the cause of motion in any complicated piece of machinery, as a watch or a steam-engine, and he were to be informed that “it was the combination of motions which resisted rest,” or that it was a “ collection of phe- nomena which succeeded one another for a limited time,” or “ that it was the result of the united actions and reactions of all the parts,” Src., he would at once perceive that his informant either did not understand his question, or could not answer it. If by the term life we are to understand the complex assemblage of phenomena ex- hibited in a perfect animal, let it be so; in the same way ns by the term movement we may understand the complicated actions and reactions in a piece of machinery: but let us not mistake such a definition for expositions of the original cause of the phenomena of life, or of the motions of machinery. Such a cause does exist, however, in the oneGENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 127 < son’s arm, which, on coagulating, showed no inflammatory crust on its ; < surface. Both these quantities of blood were kept, in order to see which i : case as in the other, and that quite independently of the particular form or structure of the animal or the machine, and perhaps independently of form or structure of any kind. > Such definitions of life, therefore, as the preceding are plainly liable to the objection of making life dependent on organization and action, which appears to me to be nothing less than a complete reversal of the actual relations of cause and effect: for in regard to the cause, we cannot say that there is invariable antecedence or connexion ; while in regard to the effect, it is not found invariably to follow the existence of the cause. We ■ recognise the presence of life antecedently to all visible organization and action; and • we also recognise its presence posteriorly to all action, as when an animal is frozen or asphyxiated. On the other hand, life is sometimes suddenly and completely extinguished, without any apparent change having taken place in the organization of the body. On the Life of the Bi.ood.—The difficulty of conceiving that the blood is endowed with life “ arises merely,” as Mr. Hunter observes, “ from its being a fluidbut we have not the smallest reason for assuming a priori that in the nature of things there is a more intimate connexion between life and a solid than between life and a fluid. Let us, there- fore, dismiss this prejudice entirely from our minds, and examine the real grounds on > which the doctrine of the life of the blood rests. “ From many circumstances attending this fluid, it would seem to be the most simple body we know of endowed with the principle of life consequently we should expect that the proofs of its vitality would be deducible chiefly from the resistance which it . offers to external agencies. 1st. If a dead frog or eel be exposed to a freezing mixture, it sinks to 32°, freezes, and continues to fall to the temperature of the mixture. If the animal be alive it will sink to a few degrees below 32°, and remain at that point for a certain time, until the power of resistance be exhausted : it then dies, congeals, and sinks to the tempera- ture of the mixture. If two eggs be similarly treated, one of which has had its powers of resistance destroyed by previous freezing, and the other is fresh, a like result is ob- tained : the former sinks uninterruptedly to the temperature of the mixture, the latter resists for a time at a few degrees below 32°, then congeals, and becomes cold as the for- mer. If two portions of blood, one of which has been previously frozen and the other not, be exposed in a similar way to a freezing mixture, precisely the same thing occurs. Now are we not justified in concluding that the resistance to cold arises in each instance from the same cause ? If it is the possession of life which enables the eel and frog to maintain their temperature for a time, it is the possession of life which also enables the fresh egg and the fresh blood in like manner to maintain their temperature. The ob- jection that the resistance in the blood may be merely from a remainder of vital influ- ence imparted to it by the solids, rests on the notion that there is in the nature of things a greater connexion between a solid and life than between a fluid and life : but this is a mere assumption, the contrary of which may be the fact; for in a perfect animal, as the eel or frog, it is not until the fluids, viz. the blood, &c., have become frozen that the animal is congealed. A solid deprived of blood is as little able to bear cold as blood separated from the solids. 2nd. Parts of animals, such, for example, as the ears of rabbits, and even whole ani- mals, such as several insects in their chrysalis state, admit of being completely frozen without the necessary extinction of life. The blood, in the same manner, admits of being frozen without destroying its coagulating property. As, however, the ears of a rabbit become flaccid, so the coagulum of blood which forms after it has been frozen is128 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. would resist putrefaction longest. By the fourth day, that without buff was putrefied ; but the blood with the inflammatory crust did not putrefy - exceedingly loose. Cold acts as a sedative to the whole system, and if its action is suf- ’ ficiently prolonged extinguishes life; but its action on the coagulation of the blood is precisely analogous, retarding or altogether preventing this act, in proportion to its in- ’ tensity and continuance. 3rd. In all vegetables and animals, particularly those which are high in the zoologi- , cal scale, there is a disposition to maintain a uniform temperature. Thus “ blood taken from the arm in the most intense cold that the human body can bear, raises the ther- mometer to the same [or nearly the same] height as blood taken in the most sultry heat” Thus also fresh blood is slower in parting with its heat than other fluids of a similar consistency and specific gravity, even before coagulation. 4th. The analogy of heat is not so well marked as that of cold, yet the blood resists any considerable increase of temperature, which is seldom found to exceed by more than 3° or 4° that of the standard. Again, “ Heat has the power of exciting action in an animal ; and we find that heat even increases the action of coagulation.” Thus also the muscles of cold-blooded animals are rendered perfectly rigid by being immersed in a fluid at a temperature not exceeding that of the human blood, while a similar effect is produced on the muscles of warm-blooded animals when immersed in a fluid at 125°, or if a fluid of this temperature be injected into the vessels ; but as the effects of heat on the blood are precisely similar, it is reasonable to presume that they are analogous phe- nomena, and depend on the same cause. 5th. Notwithstanding that the blood is constantly in a temperature the most favourable possible to putrefaction, yet, like the egg in the process of incubation, it resists every approach to this state; and even out of the body it undergoes no decomposition for se- veral days, but, like the muscles of the body, continues still further to contract. In pro- portion as the body is strong, so is the period during which the blood continues to con- tract and remain sweet prolonged ; but in diseases characterized with great debility, it speedily runs into the putrefactive state. Thus blood from old and infirm persons uni- formly began to putrefy two or three days sooner than that from young and strong per- sons. Blood which had been violently agitated putrefied three days sooner than blood from the same person allowed to remain in perfect repose; which may be compared to the effect of hard running on the solids. So also blood which was first frozen at a tem- perature of zero, and then heated to 126°, putrefied three days sooner than another por- tion which was not meddled with. But as muscles exhibit exactly the same phenomena under the same circumstances, it is reasonable to suppose that they both depend on the same cause. Cth. Sir Charles Scudamore found that when animals were killed by the discharge of an electric battery, the temperature of the whole body was exalted precisely in the same manner as has been observed in regard to the blood. Caldwell also found that the blood, subjected to very powerful shocks of electricity, was five times longer in coagulating than blood allowed to coagulate in the natural way ; and after all it only coagulated imperfectly: effects which exactly correspond with those produced by electrical shocks on the muscular tissue. 7 th. The effects of stimulants and sedatives on the blood and muscular fibre exhibit an- other train of analogies. Thus heat, electricity, exposure to air, motion, and very small proportions of salt and other extraneous substances, all hasten coagulation, and excite muscular contraction. “ The blood,” Mr. Hunter says, “ coagulates from exposure as certainly as the cavity of the thorax or abdomen inflames from the same cause.” Many observers have professed to have remarked a manifest contraction of the clot on the ap- plication of salt (Stevens, p. 132.) or galvanism (Reil's ArchivfVr die Phtjs., x. 417 ; andGENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 129 till the seventh day. In these two experiments it would appear that the ; inflammatory blood preserved its sweetness longest; but, from a repe- Biologie, iv. 654.); but whatever effect is produced by the latter agent is probably due to the coagulation of the albuminous part of the serum interspersed in the meshes of the clot; the solidification of which may easily be supposed to occasion a sudden contraction of the whole mass. Tourdes, in his translation of Spallanzani, saw, or supposed he saw, a mass of blood agitated by an undulatory motion, analogous to the feeble oscillatory movements of a muscle j while Rosa has affirmed that the blood possesses an expansile and contractile property, by which it experiences alternate movements of dilatation and ■.■contraction, corresponding to the rhythm of the pulse, wherever it is removed from the Hiving vessels of the body (Lettere Philos.). These observations, however, have not been confirmed. Mr. Hunter says that the more the blood is alive, the more readily it obeys stimulants, in consequence of which it coagulates more rapidly in health than in inflam- mation, and in the arteries than in the veins : but there are numerous facts of a con- trary nature. (See notes, pp. 39, 42.) 8th. On the other hand, the opposite effects of sedatives have been adduced to prove the same point. Thus, it has been argued, that as opium, belladonna, and other narcotic extracts retard or prevent coagulation, or diminish the subsequent contractility of the clot, in the same manner and degree as these substances are known to affect the con- tractility of muscles, so it is probable that they both depend on the same cause. But the value of this argument is entirely destroyed, in my opinion, by the fact that the extracts •of cinchona, gentian, and sarsaparilla, and many other substances of an equally inert kind, affect the coagulation of the blood much more strongly than the narcotic extracts, while many of the most powerful sedatives, as the hydrocyanic acid, have no appreciable effect on this process. The premiss, in short, is incorrect which assumes that any such actual relation exists between the effects produced by different agents on the blood and muscular fibre as to justify one in concluding from one to the other in any case. The most obvious and characteristic example of this sort is probably that of common salt, which equally and powerfully prevents the contraction of the crassamentum, the coagulation of the blood, and the contraction of muscular fibre ; but as this agent has a similar effect in preventing the contraction of the coagulum of milk, even after the acescent fermenta- tion has commenced, it must be evident that such an effect can only proceed from a che- mical operation. It is impossible, as it appears to me, to account physiologically for the fact that the extracts of belladonna and opium have less effect in preventing the coagu- lation of the blood than the extracts of sarsaparilla and gentian, and the infusions of to- bacco and hydrocyanic acid than the infusions of tea or coffee. 9th. The coagulation of the blood has been already several times referred to, so that it will here only be necessary to advert to it again as a specific point of analogy. How- ever we may account for this phenomenon, it is impossible to overlook the strict paral- lelism which exists between it and the tonicity of muscles. In nineteen cases out of twenty, or ninety-nine out of the hundred, the same physiological causes which accele- rate, retard, or entirely destroy the coagulability of the blood, increase, diminish, or entirely destroy the irritability of muscles. Coagulation has been compared to the last act of life, corresponding to the convulsion of the muscles which takes places at the mo- ment of death, and also to union by the first intention. “Coagulation,” Mr. Hunter says, “ I conceive to be an operation of life j and I imagine it to proceed on exactly the same principle as the union by the first intention that is, particle unites to particle, because they are endued with the same living principle, and consequently have a sym- pathetic affection upon simple contact, so as to affect each other. The circumstances connected with coagulation formed the chief of Mr. Hunter’* VOL. III. KGENERAL PRINCIPLES OF TIIE BLOOD. 130 tition of these experiments, it did not appear upon the whole that there was much difference. arguments for the vitality of the blood, and have also been considered by Majendie as affording “ une preuve demonstrative que le sang est doue de la vie.” In a previous note, however, (p. 41.) I have offered a different explanation of this process, and there- fore think it right to mention here that I consider the present argument as a real objec- tion to that explanation, although not a sufficient one to overturn it. The subsequent and uninterrupted contraction of the clot for several days after coagulation, exactly corre- sponds with the gradual stiffening of the muscles after death, and therefore the pre- sumption is that both depend on a physiological cause. I apprehend, however, that the same chemical affinity which first produced coagulation may still continue to act and to increase the effect; for acescency and even putrefaction in the coagulum of milk do not prevent a still further contraction of the clot, although it cannot be pretended that the coagulation of milk is a vital process, (since freezing and boiling have no effect in pre- venting it,) and still less that the contraction which subsequently occurs is due to such a cause. The analogy between the coagulum of blood and the coagulum of milk is at least fully as much to the point as the analogy between the contraction of muscles and the contraction of the coagulum of blood: so that the argument from this subject, in respect of the theories before mentioned, is ambidexter, and will receive its quality from other circumstances. 10. Another argument is derived from the fluidity of the blood, which manifestly de- pends on its vitality, whether this quality be conceived to proceed merely as an ema- nation from the surrounding living solids, or to be inherent in the blood itself (see note, p. 29.). The former opinion is certainly favoured by what is mentioned in the next paragraph respecting the effect of poisons on the blood; but the latter appears to me the most probable; first, because it makes the body one consistent whole; and secondly, because it assigns a sufficient reason why the blood does not instantly solidify when it is extravasated from the body, and when, therefore, it must necessarily be placed beyond the reach of that influence which previously kept it fluid. A certain time is required before the blood concretes, and this time is generally found to bear a direct relation to the extent of contact which it has with foreign substances, which ap- pear to conduct away the living principle somewhat in the same manner as heat, elec- tricity, and some other imponderable substances are conducted away under the same circumstances. 11. The celerity with which impressions made on one part of the blood are propagated by sympathy throughout the mass. Fontana found that almost infinitesimal quantities of certain poisons instantly rendered the whole mass of the blood incoagulable; while, on the other hand, other substances having a styptic quality had a contrary effect. (Op. cit., ii. 135.) Now as the poisons above mentioned had no influence whatever on the blood when extravasated from the body, it necessarily follows that the effect which they produced on the blood, while in the body, was physiological, and not chemical, either directly on the blood itself, or, as is most probable, intermediately through the contain- ing vessels; a reciprocative sympathy, that is, must have existed, to have allowed of this action and reaction on each other, although it is impossible to conceive of any sympathy in a dead part. This harmony between the containing and the contained parts is preserved under all circumstances, and can only be ascribed to the sympathy which exists between vital parts. If the body is strong, the contraction of the clot is strong, and the period at which it begins to putrefy protracted ; but the reverse of these circumstances universally obtains in proportion as the powers of the whole system are debilitated. But the blood is not only believed to sympathize with the body, but with131 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. To see whether the blood in a young person or an old one become tooncst putrid, I desired that the following trials should be made: ■ tself; that is, blood sympathizes with blood in the same manner as the solid parts of :he body sympathize with one another. 12. As I have already adverted {note, p. 6.1.) to the volvular or rotary motion of the globules of the blood, I shall here only add further, that were this property clearly jroved to belong exclusively to the products of organization, it would constitute in itself i sufficient and convincing proof of the vitality of the blood. The researches of Schultz, Oollinger, and more recently those of Dr. Alison (Supplement to Physiology, p. 18.), are ,'ull on this point, and seem at least to render it extremely probable that the globules if the blood are endowed with vital attractions and repulsions, distinct from any mo- don impressed on them by the living solids; that, in fact, the blood possesses all the .properties of self-motion enjoyed by the solids. To the same head may be referred the adherence of the coloured external tunics of the globules to their central nuclei, which is uniformly found to be strong in proportion as the strength and health of the animal is perfect. The repulsion also which exists among the globules themselves, by which their ndividuality is preserved, and their diffusion through the whole mass effected, can only be explained on the same principle. 13. The blood is the first part which is formed in the embryo, being, in fact, the primordial rudiment to which the principle of life is attached, and from which, by suc- : ;essivc elaborations, the various solids of the body are formed. This is one of Harvey’s :hief arguments, who denominates it the “particula genitalis prima,” the “pars primi- igenia corporis,” the “ primum vivens et ultimo moriens” of animals. 14. Allied to the last argument is that of Hunter: “ The blood preserves life in the different parts of the body. When the nerves going to a part are tied or cut, the part '.oecomes paralytic, and loses all power of action ; but it does not mortify. If the artery the cut, the part dies, and mortification ensues No part of the body is to be consi- dered as a complete living substance, producing and continuing life, without the blood. | It is not clear to me whether the blood dies sooner without the body, or the body • without the blood Every part is formed from the blood, and if it has not life pre- viously to this operation, it must acquire it in the act of forming.” Thus, the vascu- larity of a part is the measure of its vitality, and the extraordinary exercise of any func- tion necessitates an extraordinary supply of blood. But it may be argued that the blood is no otherwise necessary to life than food is necessary: both are essential; but both may equally be regarded as simple aliments, on which the organization of the body operates so as to convert them into living structures. In continuation of the same argument, Mr. Hunter further says,“ The blood has motion ; in a circle, in which circle it is in one view supersaturated, as it were, with living powers, ! and in another is deficient, having parted with them while it visited the different parts of the body.” Dr. Davy consequently asks, whether we are to regard the circulation as “a perpetual miracle, in which material particles are, without cessation, dying and reviving” ? But how does Dr. Davy know that the venous blood is dead ? It is plain also that the same question might with equal force be asked respecting the whole body, which cannot subsist without a continual supply of fresh blood; the solids require fresh blood as much as the blood requires fresh air, in order to continue life, so that a something is acquired in both cases, and that something is essential to life, or at least to its continuance. 15. “ If the blood had not the living principle, it would be in respect of the body as an extraneous substance” ; wounds would not unite as they do, by the first intention, because the coagulated blood would have first to be thrown off as a foreign body, by suppura- te 2132 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. June 24th. Some blood was taken from a woman twenty years of age, and its surface, after coagulation, was covered with an inflamma- tory crust. On the same day some blood was taken from a woman aged tion, and all ecchymoses would form abscesses: but the contrary of all this happens, | for we see the blood everywhere adhere to fresh-cut surfaces without irritating them, on exactly the same principle that cut surfaces themselves adhere to one another. The case of certain fluids, such as bile, urine, &c., not irritating their respective receptacles, 1 is no argumemt against this view of the subject; since there is not one of the secretions of j the animal body which would not irritate a cut surface, and prevent union by the first 1 intention. The scorpion can destroy itself by its own poison, although that substance I is perfectly innocuous in its proper vessels. 16. “A body may be so compounded as to make a perfect whole of itself, having no J parts dissimilar, and having the same properties in a small quantity as in a great.” If, 1 then, the blood be of this kind, motion or division cannot affect it, for all the parts are I similar, and independent of the rest. “ The blood has as much the materia vita: as the 1 solids, which keeps up that harmony between them.” The value of this argument may 9 be estimated by referring to note, p. 116. 17. Blood, when it coagulates, has an unquestionable disposition to assume a peculiar ! arrangement, corresponding to the organization of the most simple membranes; the 1 globules of the blood, that is, arrange themselves into piles or rouleux, so as to consti- 1 tute fibrils, which variously intersect one another, unlike any other thing in nature, j except the chyle, which Hunter supposed to be endowed with life equally with the ' blood. Sir E. Home imagined that the blood, on coagulating, formed a sort of tubular j structure, in consequence of the escape of carbonic acid gas; but this notion has been j completely exploded by more correct observation. The incipient organization of the clot seems entirely to depend on the polarizing forces of the ultimate globules. I appre- j bend also that it would be difficult to deny that the globules themselves may possess f an incipient organization, in as much as they evidently consist of separate parts, have a determinate shape, and are larger than the ova of many animalcules, or even than the j animalcules themselves, of whose organization there can be no doubt. Some have re- j garded these particles as distinct monads, possessing an independent vitality. 18. The last argument for the coagulation of the blood is derived from the pheno- menon of union by the first intention, and the power which the blood has of originating (■ and carrying on organization and action within itself. “ Animals and vegetables have I a power of action within themselves,” by which they are capable “of working them- 9 selves into a form and a higher state of existence. Now the blood seems to possess this I characteristic property of life as well as the solids, for extravasated blood “ forms either I vessels in itself, or vessels shoot out from the original surface of contact into it... .1 have ' reason to believe that the coagulum has the power, under necessary circumstances, to v form vessels in and of itself.... .1 think I have been able to inject what I suspected to %, be the beginning of a vascular formation in a coagulum, when it could not derive any vessels from the surrounding parts.” But it may be asked how could these vessels be injected if there was no connexion ? The decision of this point would afford a true 3 “ crucial instance” decisive of the vitality of the blood; but unfortunately the pre- \ sent state of science does not enable us to come to any satisfactory conclusion in this , matter. I have already intimated (note, p. 43.) that Hunter’s notions on the subject of union by the first intention do not seem supported by sufficient data ; but I must beg leave to refer the reader to part ii. chap. i. for the evidence which at present exists on this subject. There can be little doubt, I think, that effused lymph has a power of self-organization; but I apprehend it is taking too much for granted to suppose thatGENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 133 xty, the crassamentum of which was also covered with an inflamma- ory crust. These quantities of blood were set by. The blood from ie old woman putrefied in two days. That from the young woman :ept quite sweet till the fifth day, when it began to smell disagreeably , 1 this state it continued two days more, and then emitted the common dour of putrid blood. Several experiments were made in the course of the summer, of a si- lilar nature with the last, in all which it appeared that the blood from oung people kept longer sweet than that which was taken from the Id. In October 1790, when the weather was cold, some blood was taken •om two men, one of whom was seventy-five years of age, and the other eighty-three, about six ounces from each. The blood from each kept weet till the fifth day ; but on the sixth both quantities smelt equally utrid, which uniformity accords with the preceding experiment. To see if recent blood or coagulated blood lost its heat soonest, four unces of blood, after coagulation, were heated till the mercury of a kiermometer, placed in the middle of the coagulum, was raised to the '8th degree. The thermometer was then put into a similar quantity of lood, immediately after it was taken from the vein, in which the mercury food at 90°. These were placed by each other, and the thermometer ut alternately into each, to observe how they parted with their heat. Coagulated Recent Blood. Blood. At the beginning of the experiment 98° 90° After two minutes 97 89 After four minutes more 93 88 After two minutes more 92 87 After two minutes more 91 86 This experiment was not accurately made, for the two bloods should >mph effused from a cut or inflamed surface is identically the same as lymph as it exists i the circulating blood. I shall only further observe, that the argument for the vitality of the blood is strictly cumulative one, and must be viewed in its totality in order to estimate its real force, aken altogether, the preceding facts raise at least a strong presumption in its favour, ot to say a high probability. It may seem inconsistent, after having rejected two of ie most material arguments (viz. those founded on coagulation and union by the first itention), that I should introduce them into the present argument; but it should be nnembered that these are the arguments employed by Hunter. The explanation of lese facts by Mr. Hunter is not demonstrated to be false, but only another explanation i offered, which appears to me to account more easily for the phenomena in question, t is a balance of probabilities, and therefore I conceive it perfe cilylegitimate to intro- uce the minor probability into the question, which will carr j weight in proportion as t is corroborated by other circumstances.]GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD, 134 have been of the same temperature, because the warmer any body is, the faster it will lose its heat to any neighbouring colder body ; yet I be- lieve that the coagulated blood lost its heat faster than the fluid blood. To see whether a stimulus can be applied to the blood, so as to make it coagulate faster than it does naturally, I desired the following expe- 3 riment to be made : Three ounces of blood were taken from a boy about ten years of age, 1 and immediately after the cup was put into water heated to 150°. A f similar quantity was taken in another cup from the same boy, at the same time, which was put into water heated only to 48°. The first co- ; agulated completely in five minutes, but the latter remained quite fluid for twenty minutes, and then began to coagulate, but was not com- pletely coagulated for five minutes more. When looking at each por- tion of blood an hour afterwards, it appeared that the blood which coagulated in the warmest manner had the greatest proportion of serum, and the least of crassamentum ; but by next morning the serum in each was equal in quantity, and the crassamentum of equal size. This experiment shows that heat above the natural standard acts as stimulus upon the blood, and makes it coagulate considerably sooner than cold does, though not more firmly. This heat did not act as heat upon the blood, but only as the stimulus; for heat acting as heat would also have coagulated the serum, which was not the case. This experiment, or a similar one, is brought forwards as one of the proofs of the living principle of the blood, where it is contrasted with a similar experiment on living muscles. To see whether blood, when mixed with different substances in strong solution, and which appeared to prevent coagulation, would, when di- luted with water, admit of coagulation : In December half an ounce of blood, immediately after it was taken from the arm, was mixed with one pound of water. This was intended as a standard to judge of the others. More blood was taken from the same person at the same time, to which a strong solution of Glauber’s salts [sodse sulphas] was added; this altered its colour to a florid red, and was found to prevent it from coagulating. A strong solution of Glau- ber’s salts, therefore, has the power of preventing the coagulation of the blood. Ten minutes after this mixture half an ounce of it was mixed with one pound of water; half an hour after, another half ounce was ^ mixed with one pound of water; at the end of an hour the same was ■* done, and also after two hours : all these were allowed to stand twenty- four hours, when the pure blood and water had deposited a considerable135 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. :'irk-coloured sediment, and a light-coloured blood was suspended, hich had begun to subside, leaving the fluid above perfectly transpa- rent, and of a beautiful red colour. The different portions of blood hich had been first mixed with the salt, and afterwards with water, ad the cloud exactly like that of the pure blood, but there was no se- gment whatever at the bottom of the vessel: this cloud gradually sub- ded, and left the fluid above of a beautiful red colour, and also quite .-ansparent. At this time (viz. twenty-four hours after the mixture of me salt with the blood,) another half ounce was mixed with one pound f water, and next day the appearances were exactly similar to what ave been already described. The sediment in the pure blood was most robably the coagulating lymph; and as there was none in the others, it 5 most likely that the lymph in them did not now coagulate. As medicines, when taken into the circulation, whether by the stomach jr by the skin, produce considerable effects on the constitution, I wished :o know what effect such substances would have upon the blood with regard to the act and power of its coagulation. Two ounces of blood were received from the arm into a vessel, as a standard of natural coagulation. Two ounces more were taken in an- other vessel, to which one ounce of water was added. The intention of :his addition was to put this blood in the same circumstances with blood in other comparative trials respecting water, so that the difference, if .there was any, must belong to the substance mixed with the blood, in- dependent of the water. Two ounces more blood were received in an- other vessel, to which was added one ounce of the decoction of bark. These different quantities were taken from one person, one after the other, in the same order in which they are here set down. After six minutes, the blood mixed with water was quite coagulated ; after nine minutes, that mixed with the decoction of Peruvian bark formed a loose coagulum; after twelve minutes, the blood first drawn coagulated : the coagula of the first- and second-drawn blood were equally firm, the water in the second having been squeezed out along with the serum; but that mixed with the decoction of bark was much less so. It appears from these experiments that water rather hastened coagulation, but made it neither firmer nor looser in the texture. In the following experiments the blood was first all received into one vessel, and stirred before it was mixed with the different substances. The intention of this was, that the three portions of blood might all be exactly under the same circumstances. Two ounces were poured into a vessel as a standard of natural coa- gulation. Two ounces more of blood were poured into another vessel,GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 136 to which were added two ounces of water, as in the former experiment. Two ounces more were mixed with two ounces of the decoction of bark. After twelve minutes, the two first were coagulated, and the coagula were equally firm; after fourteen minutes, that with the decoction of bark coagulated, but the coagulum was very loose. Upon comparing the three coagula next day, that which had the decoction of bark mixed with it was by much the least firm. This experiment was repeated, and the result was nearly the same; J and it shows that even putting equal parts of water and blood together did not alter the time or the firmness of coagulation, but that the decoc- ^ tion of bark evidently did \ Some blood was taken from the arm into a bason, stirred, and then mixed with different infusions, as follows: Two ounces were mixed with the same quantity of the infusion of co- lumba root; two ounces with the same quantity of the infusion of gen- < tian ; two more with two ounces of the watery solution of opium; and two ounces were kept in a vessel by themselves. The blood which had been mixed with the bitter infusions, and the simple blood, all coagu- lated at the same time, viz. in six minutes; but that which had been mixed with the infusion of gentian was firmer than with the infusion of columba root, but was not more firm than the coagulum of the simple blood. The blood which had been mixed with the solution of opium did not coagulate for twelve minutes, and then the coagulum was very loose. This experiment with the opium was repeated, and the result was ex- actly the same. Of extraneous matter in the blood.—Whatever is dissolved in the blood must be only diffused through it, not chemically combined with it, other- wise the nature of the blood itself would be altered, and the effect of medicine destroyed. The blood can receive and retain extraneous mat- ter, capable of destroying the solids, by stimulating to action so as to destroy them • [Scudamore obtained a different result. In two experiments in which three or four ' parts of water at 80° were mixed with fresh-drawn blood, coagulation was retarded till i nine and fourteen minutes, acquiring then only the consistence of a tremulous jelly i j whereas similar portions of the same blood, to which no water was added, coagulated > firmly in five ! (Op. cit., p. 38.) The effect of water, however, on coagulation depends 1 on the quantity employed: equal parts, and all proportions under that, were uniformly J found to hasten coagulation, although thirty or forty parts of water retarded the depo- I sition of the fibrin at least a full hour. (Prater, pp. 17. 80.) When considerable quan- I titles of water are employed, it is probable that coagulation is delayed by the coagulating y particles being removed to a greater distance from each other.] b See vol. i. p. 355, note.137 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OP THE BLOOD. Extraneous matter in the blood is capable of altering the chemical : properties of the solids in those who work in lead, as is evident in the : following case. Morgan, a house-painter, who had been paralytic in his hands and legs : for a considerable time, was thrown down, and had his thigh-bone broken just below the little trochanter. The upper end of the inferior portion i had passed over the outside of the other, and moved with the knee, so it that the end of the lower bone was taken for the great trochanter; but 111 discovered the fracture by extending the leg, and got the portions of bone in their places, and bound up the limb with a roller. It went on - well for nearly a fortnight, only his hands swelling at times, which gave way to fomentations: in the third wreek he grew very ill, became low, 1 had a kind of lethargy, a great deal of blood came out of his mouth, he ■ sunk still lower, and died about three weeks after the accident. On examining the body after death, the muscles, particularly those of ' the arms, had lost their natural colour; but instead of being ligamen- • tous and semitransparent, as happens in common paralysis, they were opake, resembling exactly in appearance parts steeped in a solution of Goulard’s extract. From this case it appears the lead had been evi- dently carried along with the blood, even into the muscles themselves \ 1 [Dr. Christison has shown not only that particular poisons physiologically affect particular structures, or, in the language of Hunter, “ take their different seats in the body as if they were allotted to them,” but that they have also a disposition to accumu- late substantially in particular organs. (On Poisons, p. 15, et passim.) It is doubtful, I think, whether Hunter was correct in supposing that the lead actually combines with the muscular fibre in the living body. In the dead body this certainly happens; that is, the oxide of the metal enters into direct combination with the animal fibre; but it is scarcely conceivable that this can happen in the living body. (Trans. Col. of Phys., i. 317.) With respect to the effect of various reagents on the blood, 1 have but little to say. Dr. Davy (Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ., xx. 257.), Dr. Scudamore, Mr. Prater, and a number of other writers on the blood, have dwelt largely on this branch of the subject; but, as far as I understand the experiments which have been made, they do not seem to me to warrant any general conclusions respecting the physiology of this fluid. The ex- treme proneness of all organic bodies to undergo changes of constitution, and to assume new states of existence, in consequence of slight external causes, is an objection in limine to all such inquiries; but, in addition to these circumstances, the blood possesses a prin- ciple of life, so that it is neither possible to separate the physiological from the chemical effects, nor to arrange these effects upon any general principle derived from the nature of the agents employed. The most inert substances produce effects of the most marked kind, while bodies of the most destructive and virulent nature are almost totally in- operative. Some bodies, as the concentrated mineral acids, act from a purely chemical effect, decomposing and consolidating the blood, and entirely destroying its colour and contrac- tility; others, as many of the metallic oxides, induce coagulation, partly from a physio- logical, and partly from a chemical, effect,—precipitating and combining with the albu- men. The caustic alkalis dissolve the fibrin, and keep the blood permanently fluid;138 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. most of the neutral salts and vegetable extracts also retard, or entirely prevent, coagu- lation ; although this effect is not permanent, for coagulation may subsequently be induced, by dilution with water, in the great majority of instances. The extracts of sarsaparilla, bark, and gentian, render the blood permanently fluid, although little or no effect is produced by arsenic, tobacco, extract of belladonna, or hydrocyanic acid. A long-continued temperature of 32°, a heat varying from 140° to 150°, the citric and tartaric acids, and a great variety of physiological causes, all produce the same effect, viz. that of gelatinizing the blood. Now it is impossible, in the present state of science, to refer these incongruous effects to any general principle, because we are entirely igno- rant of the mode by which the generality of these agents operate. It is possible that bulky powders and extracts may prevent coagulation, in consequence of the interposi- tion of their particles between the coagulating particles of fibrin; but then these are only a few instances out of a great number; besides that, on this supposition, the retarding effect ought always to be in proportion to the bulk of the substance employed, which is far from being the case. Dilution with water, as I have before observed, seems to operate in this way. The explanation of the incoagulability of the blood, when the neutral salts are added, upon the principle of the expansion or contraction of the globular particles, appears to me totally inadequate to explain the phenomenon, even though we should admit the fact that the globules of the blood do actually contract and expand in the manner supposed; for if the opinion formerly given {note, p. 20.) be correct, that the fibrin of the blood is quite independent of the red globules, it will be a matter of perfect indifference of course in what manner the globules may be affected. It is re- markable that blood kept fluid by means of salt retains its florid colour for years, and also its property of coagulating when diluted with water. Dr. Davy has made the cu- rious remark, that when coagulation is prevented by a foreign admixture, the blood does not putrefy, although this effect is produced as usual by dilution with water. It is also deserving of remark, that most substances which, when added in quantity, retard or prevent coagulation, accelerate this process when added only in small propor- tions; thus, electricity, hard running, and even the neutral salts, which are so powerful for keeping the blood fluid, manifestly hasten its concretion, if not carried to excess, agreeably to a general physiological law, that stimuli universally become sedatives when carried to their utmost point. BIBLIOGEAPH Y OF THE BLOOD. Ackerman)l, J. F. Comment, de Combustionis lent® Phaenomenis, qu®, Vitam orga- nicam constituunt. 1805. Adams, J., M.D. An Illustration of Mr. Hunter’s Doctrine of the Blood. 1814. Addon, N. P. Physiologie, 26me edit. 1829. iii. 110. Albinus, B. Dissert.de Mass® Sang. Corpusculis. 1688; et Dissert, de Pra- vitate Sang. 1689. * Alison, M. P.,M.D. Physiology, 2nd edit. 1833. p. 62 ; and Supplement. 1836. Amici, Professor. Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ., xv. 120. On the Shape of the Globules. *Andral, G. Precis d’Anat. Pathol. 1829. i. 11. tr. by Drs. Townsend and West-, et Clin. Med. 2Sme edit. 1829-35. iv. 683. et passim. Sur les Lesions de Circulation. Anon. An Essay on the Transmutation of Blood. 1725. Autenricth, J. II. F. Dissert, de Sang. 1792. * Those authors which appear to possess the best claim to the student’s attention are indicated by an asterisk ; many other names, however, of scarcely inferior excellence, are passed over, in consequence of the necessity of stopping somewhere.139 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. *Babington, B. G., M.D. Med. and Cliir. Tr. xvi. 46. (1830.) On a concrete Oil, &c., as a Principle of Healthy Blood; and ib. p. 293. Considerations with respect to the Blood. Bader, J. H. L. Exper. circa Sang. 1788. Baerts. Diss. de Nat. Sang, infiamm. 1782. Barbatus, H. Tractatus de Sang. 1667. Barruel, M. Ann. d’Hyg. pub. i. 267. (1S29.) Sur un Principe propre A caracteriser le Sang de l’Homraj et des Animaux. Bartholinus, J. Misc. Acad. Nat. Cur. 1671. p. 23. Observ. de Sang, verrainoso. Bastays, M. de la. Sur les Mai. chron. qui pro- viennent de la Comp, du Sang. 1780. Bauer, F. Phil. Tr. 1818. p. 173. On the Form and Size of the Globules. Beale, B. On vicious Blood as a Cause of Disease. 1706. Bell, J. Anat. and Phys., 4th edit. 1816. i. 503. On the Properties of the Blood, containing a refutation of Mr. Hunter’s doctrine of the vitality of this fluid. Bellingeri, C. F. J. Experimenta in Electricitatem Sang., &c. 1S26; also in Annali Univ. di Med. 1827; and Lancet, xiii. 810. Bennet, C., M.D. Exerc. Diagn. (Sang, vitiis.) 1654. Berdoe, M., M.D. An Essay on the Nature, 8tc. of the Blood. 1772. Bertbold, A. A. Beitiage zur Anat. Zool. und Phys. 1831. p. 259. * Berzelius, J. J. Med. and Chir. Tr., iii. 198. (1812.) On the Chemical Properties of the Animal Fluids, and par- ticularly of the Blood ; also Traite de Chirn., tr. par A. J. L. Jourdan et M. Esslin- ger. 1829-33. vii. 27. Le Sang. *Bic1uit, X. Anat. Gen. 1801. ii. 1. tr. by C. Coffyn. 1824; and additions, par P. A. Beclard. 1821. p. 72.—Rech. Phys. sur la Vie et la Mort, Seme edit. 1805. p. 170. et passim, tr. by F. Gold.—Journ. de Sante de Bordeaux, ii. 61. Blaitwille, D. Phys. Geti. et Comp. 1829-30. i. Blundell, J., M.D. Med. and Chir. Tr. ix. 56. (1818.) On the Transfusion of Blood. Blumenbadi, J. F. Medicin-Bibliothek. 1783. i. 177.—Comm, de Vi vitali Sang. 1788 ; et Comm. Soc. Gotting. ix. 3.—Inst. Phys. edit. 4ta, 1821. tr. and greatly augmented by J. Elliotson, M.D. 5th edit. pt. i. 1835. p. 143. Boerhavii,H. Praxis Mediea. 1728. Aph. 58-144. et Prad. Acad. A Haller. 1740. §123. etnota. Borden, T. (Th.) DeAnaly. Med. du Sang. 1775. Bornholl. Dissert. de Sang. Pravitate. 1702. Bnrelli, J. A. De Motu Animalium. 1680. ii. prop. 132. Anal. Sang, et Forma ejus Comp. Borelli, P. Hist, et Observ. Med.-Phy. Cen- tura. 1553. Cent. iii. obs. 4. *Bostock,J.,M.D. Med. and Chir. Tr.,i. 47. (1809.) On the Gelatine of the Blood.—Physiology, 2nd edit. 1828. i. 428.—Edin. Med. andSurg. Journ., xxxi. 114. (1829.) Obs. on the Coag. of the Blood. Boudet, F. Arch. Gen. de Med. 2de ser. ii. 128. Bouillaud, Professor. Journ Ilebd. de Prog, des Sc. Med. iii. 353. (1835.) Reflexions sur les Alter, des Liquides et sur l’fetat du Sang dans les Inflam, putrides. Bouillon la Grange, E. J. B. Manuel d’un Cours de Chim. 1812. ii. 469. Boulton, B. Of the Heat of the Blood, &c. 1698. Boyle, Hon. It. Mem. for the Nat. Hist, of the Blood, See. 1684.; and Phil. Tr. 1665. pp. 100. 117. 13O.—Bowerbank, J. Entotn. Journ., i. Micros. Observ. on the Blood of Insects. *Brands, IF. T. Phil. Tr. 1809. p. 373. Obs. on Albumen and some other Animal Fluids;—ib. 1812. p. 90. Chem. Researches on the Blood, &c,:—ib. 1818. p. 181. On the existence of Carbonic Acid in the Blood. Brandt. Encyc. Worterb., art. Blot. bde. v. (1830.) Brelsrhneider,F. F. Comm.de Gener. Crusta: Inflam. 1788. Browne, J. Essay on the Fundamentals in Physic, and upon the Structure of the Blood. 1709. Bruner. Dissert, de Mala Sang. Temperie. 1707. Bright, R., M.D. Rep. of Med. Cases. 1S2S. ii. 63. et passim. * Burrows, G., M.D. Med. Gaz. xiv. 502. et scq. (1834 ),and xvi. 647, et. seq. (1835.) Gulstonian and Croonian Lect. on the Blood and Urine. Butt, J. M. (Th.) De Sang, spont. Separ. 1760.; reprinted in Sand [ford's Thesaurus Dissert. 1768-78. ii. 501. *Burdach, K. L. Die Physiologic. 1820-35. bde. iv. vom Blute. Burtharl, J. R. Ueber das Blut und das Albumen, &c. 1828 Bushnan, J. B. Hist, of a case in which Animals were found in the Blood. 1833.140 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. Caldani, L. M. A. Mem. di Padova, v. 1. Osserv. Micros, sulla Figura delle Molecole rosse del Sangue. *Caldwell, C., M.D. On the Vitality of the Blood. 1805. Carminati, B. Risult. di Sperienze ed Osserv. su il Sangue. 1783. Carradori, M. Annali di Chimica, xiv. 86. (1797.) Exp. on the Coag. of Albumen. Car- vinus. De Sanguine, &c. 1562. Carswell, B., M.D. Path. Anat. 1833-6. Art. Pus et passim. Cavallo, T. Essay on Factitious Airs, with an App. on the Na- ture of the Blood. 1798. Chaillon, J. Rech. de l’Origine du Sang. 1675. Chevallier, A. Ann. d’Hyg. pub. iv. 433. (1830.) Examen des Taches du Sang, &c. See Burruel. Chevreul, M. Journ. de Phys. par Majendie, iv. 119. (1824.) Consid. sur la Nature du Sang; et Ann. du Museum, x. 445. Chomel. Diet de Med., art. Anemie. 1821. Christisov, R., M.D. On Poisons. 2nd edit 1832. p.586. et passim.—Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ., Oct. 1829. On Milky Serum:— ib. xxx. 94. (1831.) On the mutual Action of Blood and Atmosph. Air. Clander, G. Misc. Acad. Nat. Cur. 1688. p. 326. Sanguis fere albus sine damno aliquot annos durans. Clanny, IV. R., M.D. Lectures on Typhus, and the Changes of the Blood in it. 1828. Coleman, E. On Respir. and the Changes the Blood undergoes. 2nd edit. 1802. Collard de Martigny. Journ. de Phys. par Majendie, viii. 152. (1828.) Recher. Exp. sur les Effets de 1’Abstinence sur la Comp, et sur la Quantite du Sang; et ib. x. 111. Rech. Exp. sur la Respir., &c. Copland, J., M.D. Diet, of Med. 1835. art. Blood. Coucrbe, M. Ann. d’Hyg. pub. iv. 479. (1830.) Reflexions sur le Principe Volatil du Sang. Courlen, W. Phil. Tr., xxvii. 485. Exp. and Obs. on several sorts of Poisons on Animals. Cruveilhier, J. Anat. Path. 1828. passim. Crawford, A., M.D. Exp. and Observ. on Animal Heat. 2nd edit. 1788. Currie, J., M.D. Essay on the Vitality of the Blood. 1791. Dance, M. Arch. G6n. de Med., xviii. pp. 289, 473 ; and xix. pp. 5, 161. Changemens que subit le Sang dans le Fifivre continue et dans la Phlebite. Davies, R. Es- says to promote the exp. analyses of the Human Blood. 1760. Davy, Sir H. Re- searches on Nit. Oxide Gas. 1800. *Davy, J., M.D. (Th.) De Sang. 1815.—Phil. Trans. 1822. p. 271. Observ. on the Buffy Coat of Blood.—Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ., xxix. 244. (1828.) On the Spec. Grav. of Blood and Serum:—ib. p. 254. On the Carb. Acid in the Blood:—ib. xxx. 248. (1829.) On the circumstances which affect Coagulation :—ib. xxxi. 21. (1829.) Is the Blooda living Fluid?—ib. p. 287. On the Nature of the Blood:—ib. xxxiv. 243. (1830.) On the Action of Atmo- spheric Air on the Blood. De Ilaen. Ratio Med., pars i. c. 6 et 25 ; et iii. c. 33 -34. * Denis, P. S. Rech. Exp. sur le Sang, 8tc. 1830; et Journ. de Phys. par Majendie, ix. 176. (1829.) De Sandris, J. De Nat. et Prseternat. Sang. Statu. 1696. Deyeux,N. Mem. sur les Alt£r. du Sang. 1797.—Journ. de Physique, xliv. 438. (1804.)—Consid. Chim.et Med. sur le Sang des Icteriques. Diest,I. Ansui Sanguinis solus Opifex Foetus? 1735. Dieffenbach, J. F. Die Transfusion des Blutes, 8rc. 1828. Doemling, J. J. Giebt es urspriingliche Krankheiten der Siifte? 1800. Bollinger, J. Was ist absonderung, und wie geschiehtsie? 1819; and Denkschriften der Koniglichen Acad, der Wissenschaften zu Munchen, vii. 184. Done. Lecture faite it l’Aead. des Sc. 1834. Dowles, T. Med. and Chir. Tr. xii. 86. (1823.) On the Products of acute Inflam .^—Duplay, A. Arch. G6n. de Med. 2nd s6r. vi. 223. (1824.) Obs. d’une AltGr. trfcs-grande du Sang. Dupuy, M. Arch. G6n. de Med., xiv. 289. (1827.) De l'Effet de la Ligature et du Section des Nerfs de la 8£me paire sur le Sang. Dumas, C. L. Physiologie. 1800-3. iii. 377.—Recueil Period, de la Soc. de Med. de Paris, xxxiii. 353. Exp. k determiner l’influence des 8 Nerfs sur le Color, du Sang.—See Prevost. Edwards, II. M., M.D. Repert. G6n. iii. part 1. p. 25. (1827.) Sur la Struct, intime141 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. des Tissus. Eller, J. T. Mem. de Berlin. 1751. p. 3. Nouvelles Exp. sur le Sang humain. Ellis, D. An Inquiry into the Changes produced on Atmospheric Air. 1807.—Further Inquiries. 1811. mEngelhart,J. F. Comm, de vera Materioe Sanguini purpureum Colorem impertientes natura. 1825.—Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ. xxvii. 94. (1827.) Everts, B. H. Dissert. Phy.-Med. de Hannatosi. Falconer, M. Exper. Enquiries concerning the Blood. 1777. Fontana, F. Nuove Osserv.sopra i Glob, rossi del Sangue. 1766. Fontana, G. Atti di Siena, vi. 161. De Sang. Restitutione. Forget, C. Journ. Hebd. de Prog, des Sc. Med. 1834, 1835. p. 353. De l’Humorisme rationale. *Fourcroy, A. F. Syst. des Connoiss. de Chim. 1801. ix. 185. Sur le Sang.—Ann.de Chim. vi. 182. vii. 147 ; et Mem. del’Acad. des Sc. 1789. p. 297. Sur les Alter, du Sang par l’lnfl. de l’Air. Fracassinus, A. Osserv. del Sangue. 1766. Gaber. De Humoribus Anim. Galen. Opera. 1679.iii. De Elcmentis. Gatti,E. A. Saggio sul Sangue e sul Salasso. 1824. Gaspard, G. Journ. de Phys. par Majendie, ii. 1. (1822.) iv. 1. (1824.) Mem. Phys. et Med. sur les Maladies Pu- trides, &c. Gaubius. Instit. Pathol. 1763. §339etseq. Gendrin, A. N. Hist. Anat. des Intlam. 1826 passim. Gigna, J. F. Misc. Societ. Taurin. (1758.) i. 68. De Colore Sang. Gordon, J., M.D. Ann. of Phil. iv. 139. (1814.) On the Extri- cation of Caloric during the Coagulation of the Blood. Grant, R. E., M.D. Lect. on Comp. Anat. in Lancet. (1833-4.) ii. 865 et seq. Gruilhuisen, F. P. Bei- trage zur Physiognosie et Tautognosie. 1812. § 89. Grliner, C. G. Dissert. Path. Sang. 1791. Guglielmini, D. Opera. 1701. ii. § 44. De Sang. Natura et Constitutione. Hall, M., M.D. Med. and Chir. Tr. xiii. 121. (1827.) On the Effects of loss of Blood ; and also separately. 1830.—Encyc. of Med. 1832. art. Blood. Haller, A. Elem. Phys. 1757-66. ii. lib. 5.—Deux Mem. sur le Sang, &c. 1756. tr. anon. 1757. Hammerschmidt, J. A. Discrimen inter Sang. Arter. etVen. 1753. Harles, J. C. F. Hist. Sang. 1794. Hartman. Diss. super crustae Inflamm. originc. Harwood, Dr. Phil. Trans, abr. i. 185, note. Exp. on Transfusion. Harveii, G. Opera. 1766. De Gener. Exerc. 52. Ilelwich, C. Misc'. Acad. Nat. Cur. 1697 -8. p. 446. De Copia Ferri Sanguinis, &c. Herbst, E. F. G. Commentatio, See. De Quantitate Sang. 1822. Hermann, Professor. Arch, de la Med. Homamp. ii. 255; et Ann. d’Hyg. pub. vi. 342.(1831.) De l’Anal. du Sang des Choleriques. Henke, U. Ueber die Vitalitat des Blutes und Safte Krankheiten. 1806.——. *Hewson, W. An Exp. Enquiry into the Properties of the Blood. 1772-7; and Phil. Trans. 1770. pp. 384, 398. On Coagulation :—ib. 1773. p. 303. On the Figure of the Red Globules. Hey, IV. Observ. on the Blood. 1779. *Hodgkin, J. Phil. Mag. ii. 130 ; and Appendix to tr. of Edwards's work Sur l’lnfl. des Agens Phys. sur la Vie. On the Size and Form of the Globules of the Blood and animal Tissues. Hodgson, J. On the Diseases of Arteries and Veins. 1815. p. 83 et passim. Hoffmann, F. Med. Ration. Syst. lib. i. § 1. c. 5. Hoffman, M. Dis- sert. de Sang. 1660. *IIoffman, G. 11. Lond. Med. Gaz. xi. 881. (1833.) Exp. on the Colour of the Blood, and on the Gases which it contains. Hoffman, J. M. Acta Acad. Nat. Cur. i. 466. DeSang. lacteo. Home, Sir E. Phil. Trans. 1818. pp. 172, 185 ; and 1820. p. 1. On the changes the Blood undergoes in the act of Coagulation :—ib. 1826. p. 189. On the Coagulation of the Blood by Heat. Jennings, E. A. Trans, of the Prov. Med. and Surg. Ass. iii. 43. A Report on the Chemistry of the Blood. Junker, J. Chymia. p. 75; et Conspectus Path. 1736GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 142 passim. Jurin, J. Phil. Trans. 1719. p. 1000. Exp. relating to the Spec. Grav. of the Blood. Kater, Capt. Phil. Trans. 1818. p. 187. On the Size of the Globules. Kallenbrun- ner, G. Exp. circa statum Sang, in Inflam., &c. 1826: see also Repert Gen., iv. 201. (1827.); et Journ. de Phys. par Majendie, viii. 81. (1828.) Kay, J. P., M.D. On Asphyxia. 1834. Keill, J., M.D. Phil. Trans. 1706 and 1708. On the Quantity of the Blood in the Body. Klein. Dissert, de Sang., &c. 1737. Knight, T., M.D. A Vindication of the late Essay on the Transmutation of Blood. 1731. *kalr.k Schtoier van der, J. L. C. Diss. sistens Sang. Coag. Ilistoriam cum Exp., &c. 1820. Kouig, G. Exper. circa Sang. Inflam, et Sanit. 1824. Kri- mer, IV. Versuch einer Phys. des Blutes. 1823. Krouaner, J. H. Dissert, de Sang. Hum. 1762. Lamure, F. Rech. sur la Couiinne du Sang. Lancisi,J. M. De Motu Cordis. 1728. § 44. (Opera. 1745. iv.) Langrish, B.,M.D. Modern Practice of Physick. 1735. p. 67. Langswaert, G. De Causa Rubedinis Sang. 1762. Leacock, J. H. (Th.) Dc Hmmorrhagia et Transfusione. 1816. *Le Canu. Journ. de Pharm., Nos. ix. and x. (1831.) Sur 1’Analyse du Sang.—Journ. de Chim. Med., June 1835. On Milky Serum. Lc Gallois. LeSang est-il identique dans tous les vaisseaux qu’il parcourt? An xi. Lee, R., M.D. Cyclop, of Med., art. Phlebitis and Phlebolite. *Leeuwenhoeck, A. van. Phil. Trans. 1674. pp. 22, 121 ; 1723. p. 436. Micros. Obs. on the Blood.—De Globilis in Sang., &c. in Epist. Posth. 1723. p. 436. Leveling, II. P. Disquisitio crustie Inflam. 1772. Levison, G., M.D. An Essay on the Blood, &c. 1776. Leuret. (Th.) Sur l’Alter. du Sang: and Arch. Gen. de Med., xi. 683. Leuret et Lassaigne. Rech. Phys. et Chim. sur la Digestion. 1825. Lister. See Hodgkin. Macaire el Marcet. Mem. de la Soc. Phys. et Hist. Nat. de Geneve, v. 400. * Majen- die, F. Precis Elem. de Phys. 4^me edit 1834. p. 233 ; et Delille, Journ. dc Phys. 1821. Malpighi, M. De Viscerum Structura et de Polypo Cordis. 1678. *Marcet, C., M.D. Med. Chir. Tr. ii. 342. Anal, of various Animal Fluids. Martini,S. Edin. Med. Essays. 1748. ii. 79. Mayer, Professor. Zeitschrift fur Phys., erstes Heft. 1826. On the Coag. of the Blood in the Pulm. Vessels when the 8th pair of Nerves is divided. *Mayo,H. Physiology, 3rd edit. 1833. p. 17. Mcnghini, V. Bonon. Comment. (1747.) ii. pp. 11. 244; and iii. 475. De ferrearum particulis in Sang., &c. Miry, J. Acad, des Sc. de Paris, ii. 209. Obs. sur la Couleur du Sang. Metzger, J. D. De Rubedine Sang. 1781. Meyen, F. J.F. Diss. deprimis Vita Phenom. et de Circ. Sang, in Parenchymata. 1826; and Isis, by L. Oken. 1828. p. 407. * Michael is, F. De partibus constitutivis Sang. 1827; and Journ. fiir Physiol, und Phys., by S. C.Schweigger. (1828.) iii. 94. Moises, II. A Treatise on the Blood. 1746. Monfalcon. Diet, des Sc. Med. (1820.) art. Sang. Montault. Journ.de Prog, des Sc. Med. i. 138. (1836.) Ant-Path, du Sang. Morgagni, J. B. De Sed. et Causis Morb. Epist. i. v. and xxxi. Moscati, /'. Osserv. ed Esper. sul Sangue. 1776. Moulin, A. Phil. Trans. 1687. p. 433. On the Quantity of Blood in Men, and on the Celerity of its Circulation. *Muller, J. De Respir. Foetus, (de Sang., pp. 41, 142.) 1823.— Isis, by L. Oken. 1824.—Ann. des Sc. Nat. (1832.) xxvii.—Lettre addressee 4 1’Acad. des Sc. (1832.) On the Bufly Coat. Nitzschke, C. Misc. Acad. Nat. Cur. 1670. p. 258. Lac ex vasa profluens. —Nysten, P. H. Rech. de Phys. et de Chim. Path. 1811.GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 143 Orfila et Andral. Diet, de Med. (1827.) art. Sang.—Arch. G6n. de M6d. xvi. 16. (1828.) Nouveaux Mem. sur le Sang consid. sous le rapport Med.-legale. O'Shaughnessy, Dr. Report on the Chemical Path, of Cholera, p. 22. Parent, A. Mem. de Paris. 1711. p. 24. Obs. sur les Cellules Poligones du Sang nou- vellement tirA Parmentier et Deyeux. Journ. de Phys. et de Chim. 1794. Pasta, A. De Sang. &c. 1786. Pitcairne, A., M.D. Dissert, de Sang. (Opera, ii.) 1722. Piorry. Collect, des Memoires. 1831 ; et Traits de Med. Prat. July, 1835. Sur l'Hemite ou l’lnflam. du Sang. Piorry et Mondezert. Journ. Hebd. (1834.) ii. 281. On the Buffy Coat. Plenk. Hydrologia, &c. 1794. p. 42 et passim. *Prevost, J. L. et L. A. Dumas. Bibl. Univ. des Sc. xvii. 302 ; and Ann. de Chim. etPhys. xviii. 280. (1821.) xxiii. 50, 90. (1823.) Examen du Sang et de son action dans les divers phenom. de la vie.—Ann. de Sc. Nat. 1824-5. Sur le Sang du Foetus. Prater, II. On the Blood. 1832. Priestley, J., LL.D. On Air. 1774. iii. 357 et passim.—Phil. Trans. 1776. p. 226. On Respir. and the Use of the Blood. Prochaslca, G. Disq. Anat.-Phys. Organism-! Corporis ejusque processus vitalis. 1812. Prout, W., M.D. Ann. of Philos, xiii. 12. 265. (1819.) On the Phenomena of Sanguification, and on the Blood in general. Pyl, J. T. Dissert, de Rubedinis Sang. 1775. Rayger, C. Misc. Acad. Nat. Cur. 1675-6. p. 313. De sero lacteo V. S. extracto. *Raspail. Repert. Gen. iv. parte 2. p. 148. (1827.) vi. parte 1. p. 135. (1828.) Sur la Struct, intime des Tissus et du Sang.—Syst. de Chim. Organ. 1833. Rees, G. 0. Analysis of the Blood and Urine, &c. 1836. Reichel, G. G. De Sang. ejusque Motu Exp. 1767. Ileichelm. Dissert, de Sang, &c. 1702. Reynaud. Journ. Hebd. de Med. ii. 84. (1834.) Rhodes, J. J. Diss. de Ferro Sang. &c. 1753. Ribes, V. Mem. de la Soc. d’Emul. viii. 604. Richerand, A. Phy- siologie, 9eme edit., tr. by J. Copland, M.D. 2nd edit. 1829. p. 232 et passim. —Mem. de la Soc. d’Emul. an iii. p. 296. Sur le Connex. de la Vie avec la Cir- culation. Rivinus. Dissert, de Sang. Pravitate. 1702. Itochc, L. C. Nou- velle Elem. de Path. Med.-Chir. v. ; et Journ. Hebd. de Med. 1833. Consid. sur les Alter, du Sang dans les Maladies. Rochoux, M. Diet, des Sc. Med. xvii. 123 ; and Diet, de Med. (1826.) art. Pathogenie.— Nouv. Bibl. Med. 1823; et Arch. Gen. de Med. xiii. ICO. (1827.) Maladies avec ou par Alt6r. du Sang; also Journ. Hebd. ii. 530. Rosa, M. Lettere Philos, in Giornale della Medicina. (1783-91.) i. 185. *Rose,H. Gilbert’s Ann. der I’hysik und Chemie. 1826.— Ann. de Chem. et Phys. xxxiv. 268.—Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ. xxvii. 96. (1827.) On the Presence of Iron in the Blood, &c. Rose, L. G. De Motu Sang., &c. [Haller. Disput. Anat. ii. 567.] 1668. Rouelle. Journ. de Med. xl. etxlvi. and Med. and Phil. Comment, by a Soc. of Phys. in Edin. iii. 214. On the Nature of the Saline parts of the Blood. Rudolphi, C. A. Gundriss der Physiologie, 1821-9. Bde. 1. p. 159 ; and tr. by Dr. IV. D. IIow. 1825. i. 132. Sabatier, J. C. (Th.) Des M6tast£ses purul. 1832. Schecl, P. Die Transfusion des Blutes, &c. 1802-3. ii. bde. Schmiet, J. Misc. Acad. Nat. Cur. 1672. p. 166. De Lacte ex \. S. profluenti. Schapcr, J. Ii. De mass® Sang, corpusculis. 1688. Schroecle, L. Misc. Acad. Nat. Cur. 1690. p. 452. De Sang. Albo. *Sehultz, K. H. Rev. Med. i. 136 et seq.; Archiv fur Anat. by J. F. Meckel. 1826; et Journ. de Prog, des Sc. Med. v. On the Spontaneity of Motion in the Globules of the Blood.—Der Lebensprocess im Blute, Sic. 1822.—Microsc. Unter- suchungen fiber des Herrn R. Brown, Sic. 1828. Schuz, G. F. (Th.) Exp. circa Calor. Fcetus et Sang, ipsius, 1799 ; et prees. Autenrieth. 1799. Schneider, C. V.144 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. Dissert, de Sang. 1679. Schroeder. See Kulck. Schurig, M. Haematologia, 8tc. 1741. Schmidt, J. C. Ueber die Blutcorner. 1822. Schwencke, T. Hi- matologia, &c. 1743. *Scudamore, C.,M.D. Essay on the Blood. 1824. Se- galas d'Etchepare. Arch. G6n. de Med. xii. 103. (1826.)—Exp. sur le Sang, &c. Senac, P. Trait6 du Cceur. 1749. 1. 3. c. 4. Smith, //., M.D. Essays Path. and I’ract. on the Nature and Circulation of the Blood. 1761. Spitla, G. H. De Sang. Dignitate in Path, reslituenda. 1825. *Stevens, IF. On the Blood. 1832 ; —Lond. Med. Gaz. (1834.) xiv. 49; and Phil. Trans. 1835. p. 348. Observ. on the Theory of Respiration. Stahl, G. E. Dissert, de Sang. &c. 1706. Stoker, If., M.D. Path. Obs. pt. i. 27. (1823.) ii. p. xiv. (1829.) Exp. on the Blood. Sturm, J. N. Dissert de Sang. Colore. 1762. Soubeyan. Ann. des Sc. d’Ob- serv. ii. 133. 465. Sydenham, T. Opera. 1726. § 6. c. 3. Taylor, J. R. Lond. Med. and Phys. Journ. lxvii. 187. (1831.) On the Bufly Coat of Blood. *Thackrah, C. T. On the Blood. 2nd edit., by Dr. T. G. Wright 1834. Thenard, L. J. Traite de Chim. 2«!meedit. 1817-8. iii. et iv. and tr. by Mr. Children. Thomson, J. Lectures on Inflammation. 1813 passim. Thompson, T. Systof Chem. 3rd edit. 1807. v. Thouvenal, P. Sur le Mechanismeet les Pro- duits de la Sanguification. 1777. Tiedemann, F. Physiologie. 1830. tr. by Drs. Gully and Lane. 1834. Torre, Abbe. Phil. Trans. 1765. p. 252. Microsc. ^ Observ. on the Blood. Traill, T. S. Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ. xvii. 235. 637. (1823.); and xxiv. 421. (1825.) On Milky Serum. Treviranus, G.R. Die Ercheinungen undGesetze des organisclien Lcbens, &c. 1831. Treviranus, L. C. Vermischte Scbriften, anat. und phys. Inhalts. 1817. Bde.i. 122. Trousseau et Rigot. Arch. Gen. de Med. xii. (1826.) xiv. 321. (1827.) Sur la Color. cadavGriques des Artercs et des Veines. *Turner, E., M.D. Elem. of Chemistry. 4th edit. - 1833. p. 887. Valli,E. Discorsosop. il Sangue, &c. 1782. Vauquelin. Ann. de Chim. i. 9. (1816.) Sur le principe Col. du Sang. Velpeau, A. L. M. Arch. Gen. viii. 306. (1825.) Verhelst, T. Essai Phys. sur la Sanguification. 1820. Vieussens, R. Phil. ; Trans. 1698. p.224. On the Human Blood. Villcrme, L. R. Diet, des Sc. Med. art. Serosite. (1821.) Vines. Lancet, xi. 294.423.(1826-7.) On theBuffy Coat Vogel. Ann. de Chim. et Phys. Ixxxvii. 215. (1813.) De l’Exist. du Soufre dans le Sang:—ib. xciii. 71. (1815.) De l’Exist. de l’Acid Carb. dans le Sang. Waldschmidt, J. J. Misc. Acad. Nat. Cur. 1671. p. 312. Ex Vena Sanguis albus educ- tus. Waller, C. Obs. on Transfusion. 1825. Wedel, G. W. Misc. Acad. Nat Cur. 1675—6. p. 1. De Conquassatione Sang.—ib. 1686. p. 323. Sanguis per micros. examinatus, ramosus. Wedemeyer, V. G. Ueber das Nervensystem und die Respiration. 1817: and Archiv fur Anat und Phys. by T. F. Meckel. 1818. p. 356. Weiss, E. Acta Helvet. iv. 351. (1760.) Obs. sur les Glob, du Sang, j Wells, W. C., M.D. Phil. Trans. 1797. p. 416. Obs. and Exp. on the Colour of the Blood. Whiting. Dissert Med. de Sang. /Egrorum. Whytt, R., M.D. I Works. 1768. p. 26. On the Blood, et passim. * Williams, C. J. B., M.D. Med. j Gazette, xvi. 718 et seq. (1835.) Obs. on the Blood, &c. Willis, R.,M.D. Opera. J 1676. passim. Wilson, J. Lect. on the Blood. 1819. Wollaston, W. H.,M.D. Phil. Trans. 1811. On the want of Sugar in Diabetic Urine. *Young, T., M.D. Med. Lit. 2nd edit. 1823. p. 571. On the Blood. Zetzell, P. Svenske. Veten. Acad. Handl. 1770. p.235. Phys. Undersoekning ora tr« arter Blod-watten.OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 145 CHAPTER II. OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. §. 1. General Observations on Muscular Contraction and Elasticity. .T is not my present intention to explain all the circumstances coll- ected with muscular contraction and relaxation, nor that other power f action introduced into an animal body, called elasticity”. I propose nly to state a few of the facts which throw some light upon the vascu- ir system, by showing that there is in vessels a power of muscular ction, and that the cooperation of elasticity is also necessary to their mction. These may likewise assist in explaining the manner in which le two powers are combined. I may, however, occasionally be led to mention causes and effects which cannot be immediately considered as pplicable to the vessels themselves, though they will render many of ie phenomena in the vascular system more easy to be understood. The common action of a muscle, from which its immediate use is de- lved, is its contraction; and the effect produced by it is that of bring- ag the origin and insertion, or the parts which it is fitted to move, earer to each other * ; which is universally the case -whether the muscle i straight, hollow, or circular. It is likewise necessary that a muscle hould relax, or be capable of relaxation ; a condition which allows it o be stretched, by permitting the parts acted upon to recede from each ther. Muscles, in common, probably, with every other part of the ody, have a power of adapting themselves to the necessary distance etween origin and insertion, in case an alteration has taken place in he natural distance ; and I have reason to believe that, under certain ircumstances, they have a power of becoming longer, almost imme- iately, than they are in the natural relaxed, or even the natural don- ated state of their fibres. This opinion will be best illustrated in in- lammation. * I do not here consider the circumflex tendons; for, by the origin and insertion, I oean the muscular ends of the fibres. * [See Croonian Lectures on Muscular Motion, &c. in Voi. IV. of this edition.] VOL. IIIV LOF TIIE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 146 Muscular contraction has been generally supposed to arise from some impression, which is commonly called a stimulus : I doubt, however, of an impression being always necessary; and I believe that in many cases the cessation of an accustomed impulse may become the cause of con- traction in a muscle. The sphincter iridis of the eye contracts when there is too much light, but the radii contract when there is little or no lighta. I can even conceive that a cessation of action requires its sti- mulus to produce it, which may be called the stimulus of cessation; for relaxation is not the state into which a muscle will naturally fall upon the removal of a continued stimulus; a muscle remaining contracted after absolute death, when the stimulus of relaxation cannot be applied; so that a muscle can as little relax after death as it can contractb. If a stone is raised, and the raising power removed, it falls; but it would not fall if not acted upon. When it has fallen it lies at rest; but so it would have done when raised, if gravitation would have allowed it. The stone is passive, and must be acted upon. Whatever becomes a stimulus to one set of muscles, becomes a cause of relaxation to those which act in a contrary direction* ; and whatever becomes a stimulus to one part of a muscular canal, where a succession of actions is to take place, be- comes also a cause of relaxation in the part beyond it, as in an in- testine. Muscular contraction, in some of the involuntary muscles, does not constantly arise from immediate stimuli, as in the sphincters ; for the * This might be called a sympathetic stimulus, and is that which regulates the ac- tions of the whole machine, and which I have called, in another place, the stimulus of necessity. ® [Dr. Parry objects to this illustration, and thinks that the radii of the iris restore themselves by their simple tonicity, in the same manner as other muscles. It may be observed, that the fact of the muscularity of the iris, which is here presumed from ana- ogy by Mr. Hunter, has been since directly proved by the observations of Bauer and Jacob {Phil. Trans. 1822), and indirectly by Berzelius, who found that the iris possesses all the chemical properties of muscle. Dr. Roget also has informed us that the iris of his eye is partly under the influence of the will; and Mr. Mayo, that in some animals it instantaneously contracts on any mechanical irritation of the third pair of nerves (op. cit., p. 291.); phenomena which are obviously only referrible to a muscular structure.] b [Muscles which have long been contracted lose all disposition to relax, as may be observed in Fakirs and other religious visionaries, who compel themselves to remain in constrained positions of the body for a long time together, and in the contractions which follow diseases of the joints. Even a powerful grasp of the hand, continued only for a few minutes, is recovered from with difficulty. That peculiar tetanic spasm of the lower extremities which is induced by injecting a solution of opium into the sto- mach of a frog, is not relaxed by a division of the spinal marrow above the origin of the lumbar nerves.]147 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. ihinctcr ani contracts whenever the stimulus of relaxation is removed, hich may be said to produce the stimulus for contraction. Muscular actions have been divided into the voluntary, involuntary, ad mixed, which is only dividing them according to the different natu- d modes of stimuli, or causes of their action : to these a fourth might e added, where the actions are in consequence of accidental stimuli or npressions, to which both the voluntary and involuntary muscles are abject, viz. such as arise from affections of the mind *, or are the im- mediate effects of violence. The involuntary contraction should be first considered, as the more . ecessary operations of the machine are carried on by it; for the ma- hine could even exist independent of any voluntary contraction : but it ould not go on if left wholly to the voluntary contraction of the auscles, unless wre were endued with innate ideas capable of producing will. This involuntary contraction is very extensive in the system, nd is employed in carrying on a number of operations, of which the irculation is one ; and which may be said to be, in a great measure, he ceconomy of the animal within itself. The mixed kind of contraction is most to our present purpose, and is f two kinds, though it has been in general supposed to be of one kind nly, and that belonging solely to the muscles of respiration, as being a them the most conspicuous. But, in fact, we find another mode of avoluntary actions in other muscles of the body, where it answers very ■seful purposes. In these the involuntary contraction may be reckoned he natural state ; and it is a kind of permanent contraction, these nuscles only relaxing occasionally, by which means parts are sustained >r supported : the voluntary contraction of such muscles is also only •ccasional. All sphincter muscles in some degree partake of this power, aid therefore should be called muscles w'ith power of occasional relaxa- ion. For although many circular muscles may not have these mixed contractions, as the orbicularis palpebrarum, yet that muscle has a dis- >osition to contract peculiar to itself. Its relaxation is to be reckoned >f the active kind, which may be called the relaxation of watchfulness ; md it is when tired of this species of action that it contracts, which, on he contrary, may be called the contraction of sleep : or it may be con- sidered as an elongator muscle to the levator palpebrse, with a dispo- sition to remain relaxed while that muscle is contracted, but contract- ng when the elevator is tired. The natural contraction of the orbicu- laris muscle is involuntary, the relaxation, both natural and occasional, is involuntary; but it has likewise a voluntary contraction and relaxa- * Mind and will are often blended together, but will has nothing to do here. L 2OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 148 tion, which can be made to exceed the involuntary, resembling what is inherent in all the sphincters a. Sphincter muscles, as those of the anus and urethra; and probably the expulsatores seminis, and crura of the diaphragm, have both a voluntary and involuntary contraction. In the two sphincters of the anus and urethra this is evident; and the involuntary contraction in these muscles I have called sphinctoric. The sphincter ani possesses it to a degree just sufficient to resist the pressure of the air and faeces, while the parts above are inactive, preventing the escape of these, till they give the stimulus for expulsion, and then an involuntary relaxation naturally takes place, similar to what happens in muscular canals. The sphinctoric contraction resembles in its effects that produced by elastic ligaments in other parts of the body, which action may be called contractile elasticity, as bringing back the parts to a certain necessary state, and retaining them there. But elasticity would not here have answered all the purposes, since, as it has no relaxing power, more force would have been required to overcome its resistance in the expulsion of the faeces than the gut above could have been able to exert. But the sustaining power being muscular contraction, a relaxation or cessation of that contraction during the time of expulsion leaves nothing for the faeces to do, but, by means of the action above, simply to dilate the re- laxed parts. There is, likewise, in these muscles a still further power of contraction, which is produced by the will, and for the purpose of giving, on particular occasions, greater force than what is commonly necessary. The voluntary action of these muscles is therefore, we find, more powerful than the involuntary; but upon the whole I think we have reason to suppose that the involuntary muscles are much stronger * [I see no reason for supposing that the orbicularis is different from the other sphincters, or that it has a disposition to contract peculiar to itself: it is only peculiar in being antagonized by the levator palpebrarum, which is a common voluntary muscle. The tone of muscles, to which may probably be referred the ordinary contraction of the sphiucters, is that slight tendency to contract in the longitudinal direction of the fibres by which they adapt themselves to the variety of their situation. Now this tone is in great part lost in the extremities and common sphincters when the nervous supply is cut off, although it seems doubtful in what degree it is dependent on the nerves in common cases, so as to relax when an antagonist muscle comes into play. The tonic retraction of a divided muscle is equally energetic when the nerves which supply that muscle are divided as when they are entire j and fish are more effectually crimped when they are first knocked on the head. The heart of a turtle, recently plucked from the chest and deprived of blood, actively dilates and contracts; which would lead us to be- lieve that the same action more or less takes place in all the muscles,—the relaxation of a muscle being not merely a cessation of action, but an active dilatation, requiring a stimulus for its production.]OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 149 lan the voluntary. Can we believe that so thin a muscle as the colon f a horse could squeeze out its contents, consisting of a column of dung bout eight inches diameter, if those involuntary muscles had no more trength than the muscles of an extremity ? When we see the bladder f urine throwing out its contents through a large tube, to a distance, erhaps two yards beyond its extreme end, we must suppose a much ; xeater force exerted than could belong to any such quantity of volun- iry muscle. For I believe that by grasping the bladder with both hands ive could not make the water flow out to an equal distance3. It may e here observed, that the power of involuntary contraction commonly emains longer than that of the voluntary, though I believe not in all nstances; which difference produces a greater variety in the former han in the latter. Thus the muscular action of the arteries is longer detained than that of the heart. Elasticity is a property of matter (whether animal or not) which ren- lers it capable of restoring itself to its natural position, after having >een acted upon by some mechanical power, but having no power of action arising out of itself. This is exactly the reverse of muscular con- traction. Muscles, as has been already observed, have the power of contraction and of cessation, which last is called relaxation, but not the oower of elongation, which would be an act of restoration, such as ■exists in elasticity. A muscle, therefore, has the power of action within ‘ tself, by which it produces its effects, but is obliged to other powers or its restoration, so as to be able to act again ; whereas elasticity is obliged to other powers to alter the position of the parts, so as to re- quire recover}7 or restoration : but this it is capable of doing itself; and by this power it produces its effects, becoming a cause of motion in other bodies. A body possessed of this property, when brought from the state of rest, is always endeavouring to arrive at this state, which it also endeavours to preserve; and it is capable of supporting itself in this state in proportion to the degree of elasticity which may belong to it. * [It may be doubted whether the colon or the bladder ever act alone. Certainly the diaphragm and abdominal muscles cooperate in all ordinary cases. In injuries of the back, the rectum is frequently able to retain and expel the feces, although the bladder is perfectly incapable of evacuating the urine. Now they both derive their nerves from the same part, but there is this difference between them,—the sphincter ani being re- laxed, the fibres ofthe rectum have no difficulty in expelling its contents, but the urine has to be forced through a long and narrow canal at the same time that the bladder is generally much distended before the nisus arises, in consequence of which the muscle of the bladder acts to the greatest possible disadvantage ; for the aperture and compressing force being given, the rapidity and projection of the stream will lie inversely as the su- perficies of the containing vessel.]150 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. The action of elasticity is continual, and its immediate effects are pro- duced whenever the resistance is removed, by which it may be distin- guished from other powers. Elastic matter can either be extended be- yond its state of rest, or brought within it. Thus a spring being bent, its concave side is brought within this state, and the convex side is car- ried beyond it: when under these circumstances it is left to itself, both sides endeavour to restore themselves. The power of an elastic body is permanent, always acting with a force proportioned to the power ap- plied, and therefore reacts as the body is elongated, bent, or compressed; but this is very different from the action of a muscle, as this last may act with its full force, or only part, or not at all, according to circum- stances. Elasticity *, which has the power of resisting the action of other parts, as well as of restoring the substance endowed with it, when forcibly removed from a state of rest, is introduced into an animal body, in order to cooperate in many respects with the muscles, and so to act as to restore or fit them for a new action, becoming in many cases an- tagonists to the muscles, which will be described when we speak of the combination of the two. §.2. General Observations on the Elongation of relaxed Muscles. Everything in nature that has the power of action has two kinds of motion exerted alternately, and a state of rest. Of the former, the one may be called the active, the other the state of recovery. In a muscle, the active is the state of contraction, the other the state of relaxation: the state of rest is merely the state of inaction. The contractile state of a muscle, as well as the relaxed, arises from a power inherent in itself; but the recovery or elongation must depend on some other power. Simple relaxation of a contracted muscle is not sufficient to enable it to produce another requisite effect; it is, therefore, necessary that there should be an elongator equal to the quantity of contraction intended to be produced: and as no muscle has the power of extending itself into what I shall call the state of recovery, an elongator of some kind or other is required, to enable every muscle to produce its effect, by a re- newal of contraction. This, although in some respects similar to the * It is to be observed, that elasticity in animals does not, like muscular contraction, depend on life, an elastic body possessing that quality as perfectly after death as before. Elasticity admits of two actions; a contraction when the substance is extended beyond the natural state, and an extension when it is compressed within it: both these are pos- sessed by the elastic parts which compose the vascular system; whereas muscles have but one action, or, at least, but one which can produce an immediate effect, and that is contraction.151 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. :inding up of a clock, in others differs materially from it. For the muscle aing capable of relaxing itself, there is no resistance to overcome, ex- ■ 3pt the vis inertias and friction of the matter to be removed: whereas 1 the clock, the power that winds it up must be greater than the spring r weight, to be capable of overcoming the gravity of the weight, or the lasticity of the spring, together with the vis inertia;. The elongation of muscles is not the immediate cause of their relax- tion, but the effect of a contrary and necessary motion of the elonga- ors, by which they are recovered so as to be enabled to renew their ac- ion with effect. The elongators, or powers which enable muscles to recover them- elves, are not always muscular, for when simple elongation is required, t is effected by other means, as elasticity, which is the case in part in ,he blood-vessels; and sometimes by motion in matter foreign to the jody, yet propelled either by muscles or elasticity, as is also the case n blood-vessels. The elongators may be divided into three kinds, with :heir compounds. The first kind is muscular, and these may either act immediately, or they may act on some other substance, by which action that substance oecomes the immediate cause of the elongation. Those which act im- mediately, and become elongators to other muscles by their contraction, ire in turn elongated by the contraction of these very muscles, to which they served as elongators, the two sets thus becoming reciprocally elon- ,-gators to each other. This is the case with the greater part of the mus- cles in the body, and in some muscles, as the occipito-frontalis, two different portions are reciprocally elongators; yet these may strictly be considered as two muscles ; for although there is no interruption, in the tendon they move the same part in two opposite directions, like distinct antagonist muscles. These reciprocal elongators, by their mutual action on each other, bring out a middle state between the extremes of contraction and elon- gation, which is the state of ease or tone in both. This appears not to be so much required for the ease of the part moved, as for that of the relaxed muscle11, either extreme of motion leaving the muscle in an un- easy state. We find, therefore, that as soon as any set of muscles cease to act, the elongators, which were stretched during their action, are stimulated either by this cessation, or by the uneasy state into which the parts moved have been put, to act in order to bring these parts into L* The reading of this passage in all the editions, is “ for the ease of the relaxed nius- rles, as for that the part moved,” the reverse of which seems to have been intended by the author.]152 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. a state the furthest removed from the extremes which were uneasy, and by which the stimulus arising from both is equally balanced. lliis, however, can only happen in such parts of the body as are fur- nished with muscular elongators ; where these axe wanting, the muscles of the part having but one office, their state of ease is that of simple relaxation, as they can have no middle state from the action of antago- nists ; but such are commonly muscular parts, or so constructed as not to be thrown into an uneasy position by the action of their muscles. I suppose, however, that the elongated state of a muscle is an uneasy state: a muscle, therefore, that is stretched, although in a relaxed state, is uneasy, and will contract a certain length, to what is probably the middle state. Still it is necessary that such parts as are simply muscular, and have no antagonist muscles appropriated immediately for such purposes, should have their muscles elongated; this is still performed by muscles, but in a secondary way; for instance, by a succession of actions in dif- ferent parts, each performing the same effect, and the last action be- coming an antagonist to the succeeding. This second mode of elongation takes place in all the musctes which assist in forming canals. In them the muscles, if once contracted, can- not be elongated, or the part dilated again, unless by the contraction of some other part of the canal, propelling its contents into the relaxed part, and by that means serving as an elongator. This, in some in- stances, goes on in regular succession, as we know the dilatation of the fauces to be occasioned by the action of the mouth and tongue ; that of the oesophagus, by the contraction of the fauces; of the stomach, by that of the oesophagus ; the upper part of the intestines, by the stomach, and so on; the successive contractions of the last dilated parts pushing on the contents, and in that manner becoming elongators of the mus- cles next in succession of action. A first propelling power, such as a heart, could in these instances have had but little effect, and would even have been unnecessary ; for as there must be a succession of con- tractions and dilatations, its power would soon have been lost. This mode of propelling substances through canals, as stated above, would probably have been too slow for the circulation in many animals, but I believe it is very much the case in others. The elongation of the muscles of the bladder, from the distention of urine, becomes the means by which they are excited to recover them- selves so as to renew their action, and may be referred to the same ge- neral head. The third kind is by means of elastic substances, which render the combined actions produced by muscular contraction and elasticity more153 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. complicated. Elasticity we find to be introduced both as an assistant to the contraction of the muscles, and as an antagonist or elongator ; the natural position being that which is produced by the elasticity. Thus we see elasticity combined with muscular action assisting in the con- traction of muscles on one side, and likewise performing the office of elongators or antagonists on the opposite, by bringing parts which have been moved by muscles back into their natural position. Such parts too as have yielded to the action of some other power, as gravitation, are brought back into what may be called a natural state, and are re- tained there by elasticity, till that power is again overcome by another, as in the necks of some animals. We may hence see that the applica- tion of those powers is twofold; one, where the muscles and elastic substances assist each other; the second, where they are antagonists, the elastic being neither assisted by the muscular parts, nor the mus- cular by the elastic; for many parts of the body are so constructed as to admit of but one kind of muscular action, the other action arising from elasticity alone ; it being necessary that such parts should have a deter- mined or middle state, though not intended as a state of ease. Of this kind are the blood-vessels, trachea, bronchia, the ears of ani- mals, etc., in which, therefore, elasticity is introduced to procure that determined state, and is chiefly employed where the middle state is much limited. For it is to be observed, that the middle state, when produced by muscular action, has not commonly a determined point of rest, but admits of considerable latitude between the two extremes, ex- cept in the sphincters. Where it is produced by elasticity, it is always more determined, provided the elasticity has sufficient power to over- come the natural or accidental resistance; and where that is the case, we must suppose that a state, in some degree determined, was necessary to such parts. But where the elastic power is not sufficient to over- come the natural, or accidental resistance, then it is assisted by the muscular, which forms one of the compounds of the three modes of elongation, instances of which we have in many joints. The relaxed state of a muscle would appear in general to be the most natural; but to this there are exceptions, a degree of contraction ap- pearing natural to some muscles8. The face, for instance, is a part where the action of the muscles on one side influences the position of the parts on the other side, a circum- stance, perhaps, peculiar to the face ; here, therefore, the muscles bring and keep the skin in one position, till altered by an increased action in * [I apprehend that all muscles, without exception, are endued with a tonic power of contraction, but in very different degrees. In the involuntary muscles, as the stomach and heart, it is scarcely at all visible; but it is highly developed in most of the sphincters.]154 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. some other muscle ; and when this increased action ceases, the constant and natural contraction of the whole (similar to that of the sphincter) immediately takes place*. Sphincter muscles are the most remarkable instances of this, being always above three parts contracted-)-. The constant and regular degree of contraction in those sphincter muscles, serves the purposes of elasticity, and may have superior advan- tages, as we know that they have a power of relaxing when their elon- gators act, which no elastic substance can have. Hence we see, that where a continued action only is wanted, there is elasticity ; where an al- ternate action and relaxation, there is the action of muscles ; where only an occasional relaxing power is required, there are muscles under cer- tain restrictions ; and where a constant powrer of contraction is neces- sary, but which is occasionally to be overcome by muscles, there are introduced both elasticity and muscular powers, cooperating with each other in their actions. Where constant action is not necessary, muscles alone are employed, as in the greater number of moving parts in most animals; and where any position is required to be constant, and the motion only occasional, from being seldom wanted, there elasticity alone is employed for the purpose of constant position, and muscles for the occasional action J. When a position is to be pretty constant, and yet elastic substances are not employed, we have then muscles endowed with the power of constant contraction to a certain degree, but capable of either relax- ation, or greater contraction, as in the sphincters. We find, therefore, that in many parts of an animal body fitted for motion, a tolerably constant position is necessary, at the same time that an occasional self-moving powrer is also wanted, to serve as a sort of auxiliary to the performance of the necessary action. For such occa- sional actions, muscles, assisted by elastic substances, are employed, the elastic power easing the muscles in the fixed position, and the mus- cular giving the increased occasional action; and in other parts of the body, where a more constant action was wanted, and could not be * As a proof that this is muscular contraction, and not elasticity, we find that the face in a dead body does not keep its natural form, nor resume it when lost. f The parts supplied with sphincters do not contract after being dilated in the dead body, which they certainly would do if the contraction in the living body had arisen from elasticity. ♦ Some bivalves (as the oyster) have a strong muscle passing between the shells for closing them occasionally; but for opening them no muscles are made use of, as this is performed by an elastic ligament in the joint of the two shells, which is squeezed, when shut, by the contraction of the muscle; and when the muscle ceases to contract, the elasticity of the ligament expands it, so that the shell is opened.OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 155 !i i completely obtained by elasticity, there are to be found muscles en- || i dowed with the property of both permanent and occasional contraction. The elastic power is very remarkable in such parts of an animal body jj i as require a constant effort to support them, elasticity being introduced |j t to act against the power of gravitation, as in the necks of animals whose ij! heads are held horizontally, or beyond the centre of gravity. This is i| t effected by an elastic ligament, and is strikingly illustrated in the camel, whose neck is long. Between the vertebrae of the neck and backs of Ij t fowls are placed elastic ligaments for the same purpose; the wings of birds and bats are also furnished with them, by which means they are retained close to the body when not used in flying. On the abdomen of most quadrupeds are likewise to be found elastic ligaments, especially on that of the elephant, which affords a constant support to the parts in their horizontal position ; and even the cellular membrane of the ele- phant has a degree of elasticity much above what is generally met with in cellular membranes. Hence there is less expense of muscular con- traction in such parts. The trachea and its branches are instances of these two powers, being composed of cartilages, muscles, and mem- branes ; the proportion of muscular substance, however, is small, the muscles which act principally upon this part being those of respiration; but the tendency of the action of the proper muscles of the trachea is to compress and alter the size of the trachea; this is counteracted by the elasticity of the cartilages and membranes exerting a constant and regular endeavour to keep it of one certain size. The external ears of many animals furnish us with another instance of the joint application of these two powers, for being chiefly composed of elastic cartilage, they retain a general uniformity of shape, although that is capable of being altered occasionally by the action of muscles. It is however to be observed, that in all cases where these two powers are joined, the muscular, as it can always act in opposition to the elas- tic, must be the strongest, and capable of being carried further than the other; it therefore must always be proportionably stronger than it otherwise need to have been. Parts in which these two powers are employed are capable of being in either of three states,—the natural, the stretched, and the contracted ; but in some parts the natural state may coincide either with the stretched or contracted, and consequently such parts are only capable of being in two states. The natural state is produced by the elastic power simply; the contracted is the effect of the muscular power alone; and the stretched is produced either by some foreign force, or body pro- truded, which may be effected by a muscular power.OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 156 §.3. Of the Structure of Arteries. The arteries in an animal, as far as we can examine them, are en- dowed with the property of elasticity, the use of which we perceive in the action of those parts ; and this power is at all times demonstrable, while the muscular has been by some overlooked, by others denied, and has only been asserted by others as appearing necessary by reasoning from analogy. The quantity of elasticity in any artery on which an experiment can be made is easily ascertained, as it only requires the application of an opposing force to prove both its power and extent. But it will appear from experiment, that the power varies according to the distance from the heart, being greatest at the heart; while probably the extent may be the same in every artery. To endeavour to ascertain the elasticity of arteries, I made compara- tive experiments on the aorta and pulmonary artery. Having cut off a portion, of about an inch in length, from the ascending aorta, at half an inch above the valves, and having slit it up, it measured, transversely, two inches and three quarters, but when stretched to its full length, three inches and three quarters, having gained rather more than one third, and having required a force equal to the weight of one jiound ten ounces to produce this effect. A similar section was made of the pul- monary artery in the same subject, which measured two inches and a half, transversely; and when subjected to trial in the same manner, was stretched to three inches and a half, being rather more in proportion than the aorta; so that the pulmonary artery appears to have rather more elasticity than the aorta. It is not impossible that this difference might have arisen from the aorta having lost some of its elasticity by use ; for although I chose for my experiment the arteries of a young man, where I conceived them to be perfectly sound, yet if there could have been any diminution of the elasticity from use, it would be most con- siderable in the aorta. These experiments were made on different arteries with nearly the same result, and seemed to prove that there was almost the same extent of elasticity, though not the same powers. An artery being composed of an elastic and inelastic substance, its elasticity is not altogether similar to that of a body which is wholly elastic. There is an effect produced from stretching it that is expres- sive of the nature of both these substances, till it gives way or breaks; for an artery has a check to its yielding to so great a degree, and isOF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 157 stopt at once, when stretched to a certain point*, which check is occa- : sioned probably by the muscular, together with the internal inelastic ; coat8. To prove the muscularity of an artery, it is only necessary to compare i its action with that of elastic substances. Action in an elastic body can i only be produced by a mechanical power; but muscles acting upon an- i other principle can act quickly or slowly, much or little, according to the stimulus applied ; though all muscles do not act alike in this respect. If an artery is cut through, or laid bare, it will be found that it con- tracts by degrees till the whole cavity is closed; but if it be allowed to remain in this contracted state till after the death of the animal, and be then dilated beyond the state of rest of elastic substances, it will only contract to the degree of that state ; this it will do immediately, but the contraction will not be equal to that of which it was capable while alive. The posterior tibial artery of a dog being laid bare, and its size attended to, it was observed to be so much contracted in a short time as almost to prevent the blood from passing through it, and when divided the blood only oozed out from the orifice. On laying bare the carotid and crural arteries, and observing what took place in them while the animal was allowed to bleed to death, these arteries very evidently became smaller and smaller. When the various uses of arteries are considered, such as their forming different parts of the body out of the blood, their performing the differ- ent secretions, their allowing at one time the blood to pass readily into the smaller branches, as in blushing, and at another preventing it alto- gether, as in paleness from fear: and if to these we add the power of producing a diseased increase of any or every part of the body, we can- not but conclude that they are possessed of muscular powers. The influence of the heart in the body, like that of the sun in the planetary system, we know extends to every part; all the parts of the vascular system being supplied according to the necessity it has; though every part is not equally endowed with power, or disposition to make use of that power. The arteries, upon the whole, may be said to possess considerable living powers, and to retain them for a long time. This is evident when we observe what must happen in transplanting a living part of • This gives a determined size to an artery. * [Thus Poiseuille, by direct experiment, proved that the force of reaction excited by the distension of a recent artery was greater than the force used to distend it, and greater also than an artery could exert some time after death, before decomposition had commenced. This is only to be accounted for by its muscularity. (Journ. de Phys., pnr M. Majendie, viii. 272.)]158 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. one body with an intention that it should unite with another body and become a part of it: the part transplanted must retain life till it can unite so as to receive its nourishment from that into which it has been inserted. It is, however, to be supposed that in such situations life can be retained longer than in others, although it is well known that it is preserved in the vascular system, even when there is no collateral assistance. I found in the uterus of a cow, which had been separated from the animal above twenty-four hours, that after it had been injected and allowed to stand another day, the larger vessels had become much more turgid than when I first injected them, and that the smaller arte- ries had contracted so as to force the injection back into the larger®. This contraction was so obvious that it could not but be observed at the time, which wras forty-eight hours after the separation from the body of the animal. This shows too the muscular power of the smaller arteries to be superior to that of the larger, and that it is probably continued longer after the separation from the body ; a property which the involuntary muscles possess to a degree greater than the voluntary, in the former of which classes the muscular structure of the arteries is to be considered. To ascertain how long the living power existed in any artery after separation from the body, or perhaps, to speak more properly, after that communication with the body was cut off, by which we have reason to suppose life to be continued in a part, I made the following experiments, for wiiich I chose the umbilical arteries, because I could confine the blood in them, and keep them distended for any length of time. In a woman delivered on the Thursday afternoon, the navel-string was sepa- rated from the foetus ; it was first tied in two places and cut between, so that the blood contained in the cord and placenta was confined in them. The placenta came away full of blood; and on Friday morning, the day after, I tied a string round the cord about an inch below the other ligature, that the blood might still be confined in the placenta and remaining cord. Having cut off this piece, the blood immediately gushed out, and, by examining the cut ends of the cord, I attentively observed to what degree the ends of the arteries were open; and the blood having now all escaped from this portion, the vessels were left to contract with the whole of their elastic power, the effect of which is immediate. Saturday morning, the day after this last part of the ex- » [The same fact is also proved by the great difficulty of thoroughly injecting the capillaries in a recently killed animal, so as to make the injection pass forwards into the veins. Thus also Wedemeyer found a much greater force requisite to force an irri- tating fluid, such as dilute alcohol or vinegar, through the capillaries of the living animal than when he employed a bland fluid.]OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 159 i periment, having examined the mouths of the arteries, I found them |j i closed up, so that the muscular coat had contracted in the twenty-four |j I hours to such a degree as to close entirely the area of the artery. That same morning I repeated the experiment of Friday, and on Sunday |! j morning observed the result of this second experiment to be similar to |] i that of the former. On this morning (Sunday) I repeated this experi- ment the third time, and on Monday observed that the result had not been the same as before, the mouths of the arteries remaining open; which showed that the artery had become dead. There was but little alteration perceived in the orifices of the veins in all the experiments. These experiments show that the vessels of the cord have the power of contraction above two days after separation from the body. Having given a general idea of muscular action, including muscular relaxation, together with the union of the muscular and elastic power in an animal, I shall now apply them to the arteries. There are three states in which an artery is found, viz. 1st, the na- tural pervious state; 2nd, the stretched; and, 3rd, the contracted state, which may or may not be pervious. The natural pervious state is that to which the elastic power naturally brings a vessel which has been stretched beyond or contracted within' the extent which it held in a state of rest. The stretched is that state produced by the impulse of the blood in consequence of the contraction of the heart; from which it is again brought back to the natural state by the elastic power, perhaps assisted by the muscular. The contracted state of an artery arises from the action of the muscular power, and is again restored to the natural state by the elastic. It has been shown that certain muscles have both a voluntary and in- voluntary contraction, and that in some of these the involuntary action having brought the part to a necessary position, supports it in that state till it be either necessary for the muscle to relax, or for the voluntary action to take place: instances of which I have given in the sphincter muscles. I shall now endeavour to show that the arteries have a middle state, but that in them the power of bringing the coats into a certain position, and sustaining them in it, is not the effect of a muscular but of an elastic power: and that the muscular action, both in contraction and relaxation, is involuntary. In parts endowed with considerable elastic powers, although not ap- parently muscular, as many arteries, but which we yet know, from other modes of information, to be possessed of muscular power, elasticity is so combined as to produce a middle or natural state, by acting to a cer- tain degree only as an elongator of the muscular part in some of its160 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. actions*. These two powers, muscular and elastic, are probably in- troduced into the vascular system of all animals, the parts themselves being composed of substances of this description, together with a fine inner membrane, which I believe to be but little elastic, and this mem- brane is more apparent in the larger than in the smaller ramifications. When we consider the construction and use of the arteries, we must at once see the necessity of their having these two powers, although in the greatest number it is impossible to give clear ocular demonstra- tion of the existence of distinct muscular fibres. But still, as arteries are evidently composed of two distinct substances, one of which is demonstrably elastic, and we know them likewise to be certainly en- dowed with the power of contraction peculiar to a muscle, it is reason- able to suppose the other substance to be muscular; I shall endeavour also to prove its existence in such vessels, from their having a power of contraction in the action of death. As the human body is always alluded to in this account, I shall found my experiments and observations on such animals only as have a simi- lar structure; for in other animals, as the turtle, alligator, &c., we can plainly discern muscular fibres, the insides of the arteries and veins in these animals being evidently fasciculated. Every part of the vascular system is not equally furnished with mus- cular fibres ; some parts being almost wholly composed of the elastic substance, such as the larger vessels, especially the arteries, in which, were they equally muscular with the smaller vessels, the existence of muscular fibres might be more easily proved. Neither does the elastic substance equally prevail in every part, for many, especially the smaller arteries, or what have been called the capillary vessels, appear to be almost entirely muscular; at least I amled to think so from my own obser- vations and experiments on this subject. From these experiments I have also discovered that the larger arteries possess little muscular powers; but that as they recede from the heart towards the extremities, the muscular power is gradually increased, and the elastic diminished. Hence I imagine there may exist a size of vessels totally void of elasticity: but this I should conceive to be in the very extreme parts only. For it is to be observed that every portion of an artery, of a considerable size, is capable of assuming the middle state, which state must be re- ferred to the elastic power. The greatest part of the arterial system evidently appears to be com- posed of two substances, which structure is most remarkable in the * We can hardly suppose that the muscular coat of the artery assists the elastic in bringing it to the middle state when already contracted within it.OF THE VASCULAR. SYSTEM. 1C1 middle-sized arteries, where the two substances are more equally di- vided, and where the size admits of a visible distinction of parts. The best method to see this is to cut the vessels either across or longitudi- nally, and to look upon the edges that have been cuta. If the aorta be treated in this way, we shall find that though it ap- pears to be composed of one substance, yet towards the inner surface it is darker in colour, and of a structure which differs, although but in a small degree, from that of the outer surface. If we proceed by this mode of investigation, following the course of the circulation, we shall find that the internal and external parts become evidently more distin- guishable from each other : the internal part, which is darker, but with a degree of transparency, begins almost insensibly in the larger vessels, and increases proportionably in thickness as the arteries divide, and of course become smaller, while the external, being of a white colour, is gradually diminishing, but in a greater degree, according to the dimi- nution of size in the artery, and of the increased thickness of the other coat, so that the two do not bear the same proportion to each other in "the small arteries as in the larger. The disproportion, however, between them appears greater than it really is, some deception arising from the greater muscular power possessed by the smaller arteries, in conse- quence of which the inner coat will be more contracted, and therefore seem thicker. This circumstance alone makes the difference of thick- ness between the whole coats of a large artery and those of a small one 1 [The reader is probably aware that the nature of the proper arterial tissue has formed one of the most contested points in all physiology. The fibrous coat of arteries, accord- ing to Meckel, is easily separable into different transverse slightly oblique layers, which resemble one another precisely in structure, but differ from true muscular fibre in pos- sessing greater elasticity and hardness, and from being closer, firmer, more compact, and more brittle than muscles. They are also drier and flatter than the true muscular fibre, and contain no cellular tissue in their interstices. Hence some anatomists have been led to class this as a particular tissue (tissue jaune ou elastigue) which enters into the composition of the air-passages, excretory ducts, intervertebral substances, coverings of the corpora cavernosa, &c., although it must be quite clear, from the preceding observations of the author, that it possesses a truly contractile as well as an elastic power. The decision of this question will probably depend on the idea which we affix to the term muscle ; for if we limit the definition of this structure to such sub- stances as possess a fibrous appearance, a peculiar chemical composition, and a power of alternate contraction and relaxation, I know not how we shall substantiate the affirm- ative of the question. The arteries, it is true, are fibrous, like many other dissimilar structures, but the appearance of these fibres is wholly different from that of muscles; upon chemical analysis they arc not found to contain fibrin, nnd when subjected to stimuli of different kinds they behave in a manner totally different from that of muscles, their contraction being continuous and permanent, and resembling much more that of the skin and excretory ducts than that of true muscular structure.] VOL. III. MOF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 162 appear less than it really is; accordingly we find the coats of the hu- meral artery in the horse apparently thicker than the coats of the axil- lary, the coats of the radial as thick as those of the humeral, and the artery near the hoof as thick in its coats as any of the others. There is yet another circumstance which also deserves attention in comparing the two coats, namely, that in many places, but especially at the surfaces of contact in the elastic and muscular substances of the middle-sized arteries, the fibres of the muscular and elastic are very much blended or intermixed. I mention this, because otherwise we might be led to draw false conclusions with regard to the comparative quantity of each substance, and because it explains by what means both these coats are made elastic. The external coat, however, is more so than the internal, being composed almost entirely of elastic sub- stance, while the internal has a mixture of muscular with its elastic fibres. As there is, therefore, a difference in the elastic power of the two coats, there must be a difference in their powers of contraction after death, the external coat, for instance, contracting more than the inter- nal, and also, as there is a difference between the muscular and elastic powers of contraction, the muscular having the greatest, there must be a difference between the contracting powers of these two coats during life, but the reverse of that which takes place after death. In those arteries which are evidently composed of two distinct sub- stances, especially the smaller, we may observe two very opposite appearances, according as the elastic or muscular coats have contracted most. In the one, when we make a transverse section, and look upon the cut end, wre may observe that the inner surface has been thrown into rugae, so as to fill up the whole cavity; and if such an artery be slit up longitudinally, so as to expose its inner surface, we shall find that inner surface forming wrinkles, which are principally longitudinal. If the finger is passed over that surface, it feels hard, while the exter- nal is soft; but if the artery be stretched, and allowed to recover itself by its elasticity, which is the only power it now has, it will be felt equally soft on both surfaces, and its coats will be found to have be- come thinner than before*. On the contrary, I have observed in many of the smaller arteries, when the muscular contraction has been con- siderable, the external or elastic coat to be thrown into longitudinal inequalities, from not having an equal power of contraction with the a [The internal surface is thrown into rugae in consequence of the elasticity of the external coat being greater than the muscularity of the internal coat. How then can stretching smooth these ruga:, when it ought rather to increase them ?]OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 163 muscular; an artery under such circumstances being to the touch as hard as a cord. But if the muscular contraction be destroyed by stretching, or passing something through the artery, then it becomes very soft and pliant, and the muscular coat having once been stretched, without having the power of contracting again, is thrown into irregu- larities by the action of the elastic. The elastic coat of an artery is fibrous, and the direction of its fibres is principally transverse or circular ; but where a branch is going off, or at the division of an artery into two, the direction of the fibres is very irregular. I cannot say that I have found any fibres which are to a great degree oblique or longitudinal, a circumstance that shows their simple elasticity to be equal to the intention or use, a transverse or circular di- rection of fibres not being the most advantageous for producing the great- est effect*. They are also elastic laterally [longitudinally?], from the direction of their fibres, which property shortens the artery when elon- gated by the blood, and I believe the muscles have little share in this ac- tion ; the whole of which tends to show that the elastic power is equal to the task of producing, and really does produce, the natural state of the artery. What the direction of the muscular fibres may be I never could discover, but should suppose them oblique, because the degree of con- traction appears greater than a straight muscle could produce, in which light a circular muscle is to be considered, as its effects are in the di- rection of its fibres ; for either the diameter or the circumference of the. artery will decrease in the same proportion, but not the area, which will decrease in proportion to the square of the diameter. We should naturally suppose that, where the action of the heart is strong, elasticity is the best property to sustain its force; and that where the force and elasticity are well proportioned, no mischief can ensue. Where the force, therefore, of the heart is greatest there is the greatest degree of elasticity, which yields with reluctance, and constantly endeavours to oppose and counteract that force. From these active powers of an artery, together with a foreign power, viz. the blood, acting upon them and distending their parietes, in a manner somewhat similar to the common action of fluids in canals, we may perceive that there are three actions which take place, all of which operate in concert with each other, and produce one ultimate effect. As the filling of the cavity of an artery produces an extension of its coats in every direction, the arteries are endowed with the elastic power, * This is a principle in mechanics so well known that it need not here he explained : we find it happily introduced in the disposition of muscles in various parts of the body. M 2164 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. which, by contracting in all directions, brings them back again to their natural state. The. action of the muscular power, being principally in a transverse direction, tends, when the artery is extended, to lessen its diameter, and assist the elastic power; but as its quantity of contraction is supe- rior to that of the elastic power, it does or may contract the artery be- yond what the latter could effect. When the muscular action ceases, elasticity will be exerted to dilate the vessel and restore it to a middle state again, becoming the elongator or antagonist of the muscular coat, and by that means fitting it for a new action as described in other parts of the body. This will be most evident in the middle-sized vessels; for in the smaller, the proportion of elastic substance is not so consider- able, and therefore it will contribute less to the dilatation of the vessel when the muscular coat relaxes. Yet we must suppose that no vessel even to its very extremity, is ever entirely collapsed ; but that it pos- sesses an elastic power sufficient to give it a middle state. Although these different structures do not always bear the same proportion to each other in arteries of the same size, yet we must conclude there is in these vessels a certain regular proportion preserved, and I am inclined to believe that the elasticity is in some degree in an inverse proportion to the decrease of size, presuming at the same time that the muscular power increases in the same proportion. A vessel is stretched beyond its natural state, first by the force of the heart, and in succession by the first order of vessels; then it is that the elastic power is exerted to contract the vessel, and restore it to the natural size; and in the per- formance of this it will be more or less assisted by the muscular power, according to the size of the vessels; least in the larger, and most in the smaller vessels, as wag observed above. There appears to be no mus- cular power capable of contracting an artery in its length, the whole of that contraction being produced by the elasticity. For in a transverse section of an artery, made when the muscles of the vessels are in a contracted state, it may always be observed, that the external or elastic coat immediately contracts longitudinally, and leaves the internal or muscular coat projecting; which w’ould not be the case if there was a longitudinal muscular contraction equal to the elastic, and were not the quantity of muscular contraction greater than the elastic there would be no occasion for muscles. Another proof of this is, that if a piece of contracted artery be stretched transversely, or have its area increased, and be allowed to recover itself, it loses a part of its length. To under-* stand this it will be necessary to know that muscular fibres by contrac- tion become thicker, and in proportion corresponding with the degree of contraction in the muscle.OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 165 The thickening in the muscle of a horse was found to be an increase of one fourth part of thickness to one third of a contraction *; from which it follows that the more the muscular fibres of any vessel con- tract, the more the vessel is lengthened ; but destroy the muscular con- traction by dilating the artery, and the elastic power, which acts in all directions, will immediately take place, and restore the vessel to its pro- per size; which is a proof that the effect of the lateral swell produced by the muscular contraction is greater than that of the longitudinal elas- ticity of the artery. If we examine how much the vessel has lost of its length in this trial, we shall find it will amount to about one twelfth of the whole; a proof that the internal coat does not contract so much longitudinally by its muscular power as the external does by its elasticity. By multiplying such experiments we have further proofs that the power of muscular contraction acts chiefly in a circular direction ; for in a longitudinal sec- tion of an artery in its contracted state, the internal coat does not pro- ject as in a transverse section, both coats remaining equal ; or rather, indeed, the elastic coat projects beyond the other, from the internal muscular coat having contracted most. But if this section be stretched transversely, the external coat then contracts, and leaves the internal most projecting; because the internal or muscular has now no power of contraction. If the transverse extension be repeated, and to a greater degree, the artery, when allowed to recover itself, will have its inside turned outwards, as well as bent longitudinally, having the inside of the artery on the outside of the curve, and often bringing the two ends to- gether : but this is easily accounted for; for as by the transverse ex- tension of the artery its muscular contraction is destroyed, it becomes pliant; and the only resistance to the elastic power on this side being now removed, it is allowed to exert itself to its utmost extent. In doing this it bends the section in a longitudinal direction, which also inclines us to believe that the external part of the elastic coat is the most elastic. * This calculation is not accurate; for in the experiments made to discover if the muscle lost of its size in the whole when contracted, I found it hardly did: therefore, what it lost in length it must have acquired in thickness *. [ Die fact that muscles, when thgy contract, acquire in thickness exactly what they lose in length, may easily he proved by observing the effect which the contraction of the ventricles of the heart, or live eels, have on a vessel of water, to which has previ- ously been aflixed a narrow graduated tube. We cannot, however, infer from this fact that the arteries are muscular, since precisely the same effect would follow- from the contraction of any purely elastic body as follows from the contraction of a muscle.]OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 166 These experiments not only prove that the muscular power of an artery acts chiefly in a transverse direction, but also that the elastic power exists almost entirely in the external coat, and therefore that the internal coat must be the seat of the muscular power. Experiments on the arteries of a horse bled to death.—To ascertain the muscular power of contraction in the arteries, and determine the pro- portions which it bears to their elasticity, I made the following experi- ments upon the aorta, iliac, axillary, carotid, crural, humeral, and radial arteries of a horse. In this animal the muscles were all allowed to con- tract equally, and therefore we might reasonably presume that the ves- sels (at least such of them as were furnished with muscles) would also be contracted, the stimulus of death acting equally upon muscles in every form and every situation. The animal had also been bled to death, so that the vessels had an additional stimulus to produce contraction in them, as we know that all vessels in animals endeavour as much as pos- sible to adapt themselves to the quantity of fluid circulating through them. As I supposed the larger arteries had less of this power than the smaller, and that perhaps in an inverse proportion to their size, in order to ascertain that fact, and also to contrast the two powers, I made my first experiments upon the aorta and its nearest branches, continuing them on the other branches as these became smaller and smaller. The arteries were taken out of the body with great care, so as not in the least to alter their texture or state of contraction. The experiments were made in the following manner: I took short sections of the dif- ferent arteries, slit them up in a longitudinal direction, and in that state measured the breadth of each, by which means, as I conceived, I could ascertain their muscular contraction; then taking the same sections, and stretching them transversely, I measured them in that state, which gave me the greatest elongation their muscular and elastic powers were capable of. As by this extension I had entirely destroyed their muscu- lar contraction, whatever degree of contraction they exerted afterwards must, I believe, have been owing to elasticity. Having allowed them to contract, I again measured them a third time in that state, and thus ascertained three different states of vessels, between which I could com- pare the difference either in the same or different sections, so as from the result to deduce with some degree of certainty the extent of these powers in every size of vessel. I say only with some degree of cer- tainty ; for I do not pretend to affirm that these experiments will always be exact; circumstances often happening in the body which prevent the stimulus of death from taking place with equal effect in every part. I have accordingly seen in the same artery some parts wider than others,167 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. even when the more contracted parts were nearest the heart, and this merely from the difference of action in the muscular power ; for when that was destroyed by stretching, the parts contracted equally in both. Exp. 1. A circular section of the aorta ascendens, when slit up and opened into a plane, measured inches transversely; on being stretched, it lengthened to lOf; the stretching power being removed, it contracted again to six inches, which we must suppose to he the middle state of the vessel. Hence the vessel appeared to have gained by stretching 4 an inch in width or rather circumference, which may he attributed to the relaxation of its muscular fibres, whose contraction must have been equal to ; 6 inches being the natural size, or most contracted state of the elastic power. Exp. 2. A circular section of the aorta at the origin of the first in- tercostal artery, measuring 4-i inches, extended by stretching to 7} inches ; it contracted again to 4 inches, and therefore gained -iy. Exp. 3. A circular section of the aorta at the lower part of the tho- rax, on being stretched, and being allowed to contract again, gained -,V- Exp. 4. A circular section of the iliac artery, measuring 2 inches, when stretched and allowed to contract again, measured 2TV inches, and therefore gained £. Exp. 5. A circular section of the axillary artery, measuring 1 inch, when stretched and contracted again, measured H inch, therefore gained + . Exp. 6. A circular section of the carotid artery, measuring T“T of an inch, when stretched, measured if and one half; and when contracted again, if; therefore had gained . Exp. 7. A circular section of the crural artery, measuring if, when contracted after being stretched, measured liT inch, therefore gained-J-. Exp. 8. The humeral artery, near the joint of the elbow, in a con- tracted state, was thicker in its coats than the axillary; the circum- ference of the artery in that state being Tv and one half; after being stretched and contracted again, it measured T9T, therefore gained f and one half. Exp. 9. A circular section of the radial artery being taken, was found so contracted as hardly to be at all pervious; and the coats, especially the inner, much thicker than even the humeral: when slit up it scarcely measured XV of an inch; and when stretched and allowed to contract again, T*T; it therefore gained which was about the whole contrac- tion of the artery. '1 o see how far this power of recovery in the same artery took place at different distances from the source of the circulation, 1 made the fol-168 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. lowing experiments on the spermatic artery of a bull, and likewise on the artery of the fore leg and penis. The spermatic artery, near the aorta, when stretched longitudinally, recovered perfectly the former length; when stretched transversely it likewise recovered perfectly. About the middle, when stretched transversely, it gained Upon the testicle when stretched transversely, it gained i, which was its muscu- lar power. The humeral portion of the artery of the fore leg, when stretched transversely, and also longitudinally, recovered entirely. The artery of one hoof, or rather linger, w hen stretched transversely, gained -^v, Avhich was the muscular power : when stretched longitudi- nally it recovered perfectly. The artery of the penis, when stretched longitudinally or trans- versely, recovered itself perfectly. This artery is considerably more elastic longitudinally than the others, but not so transversely. This increased elasticity in the longitudinal direction may be intended to allow of the difference in the length of the penis at different times. From these experiments wTe see that the power of recovery in a vessel is greater in proportion as it is nearer to the heart; but as it becomes more distant it lessens, which shows the decrease of the elastic and the increase of the muscular pow'er. Tubular View of the preceding Experiments*. Measuring. Stretched to. Recovered to. Aorta ascendens inches... 10^ 6 ... Aorta descendens at first) . 7 „ . „ intercostal J f T:r Aorta descendens at the 1 lowest part / Iliac artery 2 21\ ... Axillary 1 H • •• Carotid rV 44 +4 • •• Crural -Hf 1-rar • •• Humeral 44 -nr Radial TV Contract by death. ... -dr part. rr tt>- 4 4 4 i equal to the whole. Experiments on the power of Arteries to contract longitudinally. To prove that arteries do not produce the same power of muscular con * [It may be proper to observe that the proportional rates of contraction by death, as set down in the above table, are deduced front the contracted instead of from the na- tural or middle state of the vessels; independently of which the numbers themselves are not correctly deduced. Tire following fractions represent the respective degrees of contraction in each case (omitting the 3rd, for which there are no data,) calculated for fhe natural state of the vessel, viz. 7' ,, ,'g, f, 4, ?, if, l, and 4,OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 169 * traction in a longitudinal which they do in a transverse direction, the following experiments were made. Exp. 1. A longitudinal section of the aorta ascendens, measuring two inches, when stretched and allowed again to contract measured the i same length. Exp. 2. A longitudinal section of the aorta descendens at the lower part of the thorax, of a given length, after having been stretched, con- tracted exactly the same length. Exp. 3. Two inches of the same carotid artery used in the sixth ex- periment, when stretched longitudinally, recovered itself, so as not to he longer than before the experiment. Exp. 4. A portion of that humeral artery used in the eighth of the former experiments was not altered in its original length, when it re- covered itself after being stretched. These experiments appear to he decisive, and prove that the muscu- lar power acts chiefly in a transverse direction; yet it is to be observed that the elastic power of arteries is greater in a longitudinal than in a transverse direction. This appears to be intended to counteract the lengthening effect of the heart, as well as that arising from the action of the muscular coat; for the transverse contraction of that coat lengthens the artery, and therefore stretches the elastic, which again contracts upon the diastole of the artery. From the account we have given of those substances which compose an artery, we may perceive it has two powers, the one elastic and the other muscular. We see also that the larger arteries are principally endowed with the elastic power, and the smaller with the muscular; that the elastic is always gradually diminishing in the smaller, and the muscular increasing, till, at last, probably, the action of an artery is almost wholly muscular ; yet I think it is not to be supposed but that some degree of elasticity is continued to the extremity of an artery, for the middle state cannot be procured without it, and I conceive the middle state to be essential to every part of an artery. Let us now apply these two powers of action, or, to speak more properly, of re- action, with their different proportions in the different parts of the arte- rial system. From these different proportions we must suppose the elastic to be best fitted for sustaining a force applied to it, (such as the motion of the blood given by the heart,) and propelling it along the vessel; the muscular power, most probably, is required to assist in con- tinuing that motion, the force of the heart being partly spent, but cer- tainly was intended to dispose of the blood when arrived at its place of destination; for elasticity can neither assist in the one nor the other.OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 170 although it i9 still of use, through the whole, to preserve the middle state. Elasticity is better adapted to sustain a force than muscular power: for an elastic body recovers itself again, whenever the stretch- ing cause suspends its action, while muscles endeavour to adapt them- selves to circumstances as they arise. This is verified by different sorts of engines whose pipes are made of different metals. A pipe made of lead, for instance, will in time dilate and become useless* ; whereas a pipe of iron will react on the fluid, if the force of the fluid be in pro- portion to the elastic power of the iron: but the lead having little or no elasticity, whenever it is stretched it will remain so, and every new force will stretch it more and more. We are therefore to suppose that the force of the heart is not capable of stretching the artery so much as to destroy its elasticity; or, in other words, the force of the heart is not able to dilate the artery beyond the contracting power. As the motion of the blood is mechanical, elasticity is best adapted to take off the immediate force of the heart; and as we go from the heart this property becomes less necessary, because in this course the influence of the heart is gradually lessened, by which means a more equal motion of the blood is immediately produced, and even in the first artery a continued stream is at all times obtained, although it is con- siderably increased by each contraction of the heart. Without this power the motion of the blood in the aorta would have been similar to what it is in its passage out of the heart, and would have been nearly the same in every part of the arterial system. For though the motion of the blood out of the heart be by interrupted jerks, yet the whole ar- terial tube being more or less elastic, the motion of the blood becomes gradually more uniform from this cause. Elasticity in arteries acts like a pair of double bellows : although their motion be alternate, the stream of air is continued; and if it were to pass through a long elastic pipe, resembling an artery, the current of air would be still more uniform®. The advantage arising from elasticity in the arterial sj'stem will lie more complete in the young subject than in the old: for in the latter, the * This accounts for the size of aneurisms in arteries whose coats must have lost their elasticity before they could be dilated. » [ The application of this principle in the construction of water-pumps and fire- engines is extremely simple. It consists in making the water pass through a chamber of condensed air, the elasticity of which causes the water to issue fortli in a continued and uniform stream, instead of by jerks. This transformation of an alternating into a continued action may be expressed in the following proposition of mechanics. Every intermitting motion may be converted into a continued one, by employing the original force to compress a reservoir or spring, which keeps up a constant reaction.]OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 171 elasticity of the arteries being very considerably diminished, more espe- cially in the larger trunks, where the force of the heart requires to be broken, the blood will be thrown into the second and third order of vessels with increased velocity. In the young the current is slower, from the reaction of the elastic power during the relaxed state of the heart •, whereas at the heart the motion is equal to the contraction of the heart; and as the heart is probably twice the time in relaxing that it is in contracting, from this cause alone we may suppose the whole is two tliirds less in the smaller vessels. As elastic bodies have a middle state, or state of rest, to which they return after having been dilated or contracted by any other power, and as they must always be acted upon before they can react, the use of elasticity in the arterial system will be very evident. It is by this means that the vessels adapt themselves to the different motions of the body, as flexion and extension; so that one side of an artery contracts while the other is elongated, and the canal is always open for the reception of blood in the curved, stretched, or relaxed state. The muscular power of an artery renders a smaller force of the heart sufficient for the purposes of circulation; for the heart need only to act with such force as will be sufficient to carry the blood through the larger arteries, and then the muscular power of the arteries takes it up, and, as it were, removes the load of blood while the heart is dilating. In confirmation of this remark, it is observable in animals whose arte- ries are very muscular, that the heart is proportionably weaker, so that the muscular portion of the vessels becomes a second part to the heart, acting where the power of the heart begins to fail, and increasing in strength as that decreases in power. Besides this, it disposes of such part of the blood as is necessary for the animal ccconomy, principally in growth, repair, and secretions. At the extreme ends of the arteries, therefore, we must suppose that their actions are varied from that of simply conveying blood, except those arteries which are continued into veins. §.4. Of the Vasa Arteriarum. The arteries are furnished with both arteries and veins, although it cannot be said that they are to appearance very vascular. • Their arte- ries come from neighbouring vessels, and not from the artery itself which they supply. This we see in dissection ; and I found by tilling an artery, such as the carotid, with fine injection, that still the arteries of the artery were not injected. On laying the coats of arteries bare in the living' body, wc can discern their vessels more evidently someOF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 172 little time after the exposure, for then they become vessels conveying red blood, as in a beginning inflammation, growing turgid, when the arteries may be easily discerned from the veins by the difference of colour of the blood in each: these observations will also generally apply to the corresponding veins. Perhaps arteries afford the most striking instance of animal substance furnished with two powers existing in the same part, one to resist me- chanical impulse, the other to produce action. The first of these powers is greatest where there is the most impulse to resist; therefore w'e find it particularly in the arteries nearest to the heart, the better to support the force of that organ ; but in those parts where gravitation is gradu- ally increasing, the diminution of powrer in the artery is not in propor- tion to the diminution of the force of the heart. In the veins the allotment of strength is commonly the reverse, for as they have nothing mechanical to resist, but the effect of gravitation, their principal strength is at the extremities. We are to suppose that the power of the heart, and the mechanical strength of the arteries, bear a just proportion to each other; and there- fore by ascertaining the last we may give a tolerable good guess with respect to the other. In this view, to determine the strength of the ventricles, so far as I was able, I made comparative trials of the strength of the aorta and pulmonary arteries of a healthy young man. I separated a circular section of each, and on being slit, they mea- sured 3£ inches, their breadths being also equal. On trial, I found the aorta, being stretched to near 5 inches, broke with a weight of eight pounds. The pulmonary artery stretched to near 5q inches, and then broke with four pounds twelve ounces. This experiment I have repeated, but with very different results; for in one experiment, although the aorta took one pound ten ounces to stretch it, while the pulmonary ar- tery took only six ounces, yet to break this pulmonary artery required eleven pounds three ounces, while the aorta broke with ten pounds four ounces; but this difference I impute to the aorta having lost its elasti- city, which is very apt to happen in that vessel. There is nearly the same proportion of elasticity in both arteries; but the strength of the aorta in the first experiment appeared to be nearly double that of the pulmonary artery, while in the second it was less; yet we must suppose the result of the first experiment nearer the truth, for we seldom find the pulmonary artery diseased, while the aorta is seldom otherwise. The mechanical strength of arteries is much greater in the trunk than in the branches, which is evident from accidents and from injections in dead bodies ; for when we inject arteries with too much force, the firstOF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 173 extravasation takes place in the smaller vessels. This can only be proved by subtle injections, which do not become solid by cold, such injections keeping up an equal pressure throughout the arterial system. In such cases the smaller arteries are found to give way first, viz. those of the muscles, pia-mater, and the cellular membrane ; which contradicts Hal- ler’s theory of the relative strength of the coats of the vessels. I am however inclined to suppose that they are even weaker in pro- portion to their size, viz. in proportion to the diminished force of the heart, or motion of the blood; but how far this is the case I will not venture to determine, as mechanical strength is not so much wanted in the smaller arteries as muscular; and as the mechanical strength of muscles appears to be less than the power of their own contraction, ex- periments made on the dead body upon parts whose uses arise from an action within themselves when active, are not conclusive. The flexor policis longus, being one of the most detached muscles in the body re- specting structure and use, has been selected for experiments on this subject, and is found to raise by its action a greater weight than it can sustain after death. This, however, is liable to fallacy, as the two ex- periments are made on different muscles, one certainly healthy, the other most probably weakened by the disease preceding death. The coats of arteries are not equally strong on all sides of the same artery; at the bending of a joint they are strongest on the convex side through the whole length of the curve; this is most evident in the per- manent curves, such as in the great curvature of the aorta. Arteries are likewise strongest at the sharp angles made by a trunk and its branch, and at the angle formed by a trunk divided into two. These parts have the blood, as it were, dashing against them. Those likewise are the parts which first lose their elasticity and soonest ossify, being generally more stretched than the other parts of an artery, and making a kind of bag. These circumstances are chiefly observable in the cur- vature of the aorta and of the internal carotids, and at the division of the aorta into the two iliacs. §.5. Of the Heart. The heart is an organ which is the great agent in the motion of the blood; but it is not essential to animals of every class, nor for the mo- tion of the blood in every part where it is perfect; it is less so than the nerves, and many even possess the organs of generation, that have no heart. Its actions in health are regular, and characteristic of that state ; and in disease its actions are in some degree characteristic of the dis-OP THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 174 ease ; but although there is that connexion between the body and the heart, yet there seems not to be such a connexion between the heart and the body a, for the heart may be in some degree disordered in its action, yet the body but little affected: it is therefore only to be con- sidered as a local agent very little affecting the constitution sympathe- tically, except by means of the failure in its duty. The heart in the more perfect animals is double, answerable to the two circulations,—the one through the lungs, the other over the body; but many that have only single hearts, have what is analogous to a double circulation ; and this is performed in very different ways in differ- ent animals, so that one of the circulations in these is performed without a heart. A large class of animals, well known and pretty perfect in their construction, namely, all the class of fish, have no heart for the motion of the blood in the great circulation, or that over the whole body, having only a heart for the lungs or branchiae, while the snail has only a heart for the great circulation, and none for the lungs; in the liver also of the most perfect animals, the motion of the blood in the vena portae and vena cava hepatica is carried on without a heart. The absorbing system in every animal has no immediate propelling power; therefore this propelling power is not universally necessary. The heart varies in its structure in different orders of animals, prin- cipally with respect to the number of cavities and their communications with each other, yet in all nearly the same purpose is answered. I shall here observe, that in the bird and quadruped there is a double circula- lation, which requires a double heart, namely, a heart for each circula- tion, each heart consisting of an auricle and ventricle, called the right and the left; and from their forming but one body among them, they are all included in one heart; the right side, or heart, may be called the pulmonary, and the left may be called the corporeal. In many classes of animals there is to be found only one of these hearts; and according to the class, it is either the pulmonary or corporeal. In the fish, as was observed, the heart is the pulmonary; and in the snail the heart is the corporeal; so that the corporeal motion of the blood in the fish is carried on without a heart; and in the snail the pulmonary motion is carried on without a heart. In the winged insects, which have but one heart, as also but one circulation, there is this heart, answering both purposes; and in all these varieties breathing is the principal object. 'Hie heart in most animals is composed principally of a strong muscle, thrown into the form of a cavity or cavities; but it is not wholly mus- » [I apprehend that a reversal of the terms of this proposition is required, in order that the sense may agree with the context.]175 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. cular, being in part tendinous or ligamentous, which last parts have neither action nor reaction within themselves, but are only acted upon ; they are therefore made inelastic and rigid, to support the torce of the acting parts in this action without varying in themselves. In all animals which have red blood the heart is the reddest muscle in the body. Thus, in the bird, whose muscles are mostly white, the heart is red : we find it the same in the white fish. As it differs in the different orders of animals respecting the number of cavities, it may admit of dispute what are to be reckoned truly hearts, and what only appendages; for some of its cavities may only be consi- dered as reservoirs peculiar to some hearts. The most simple form of heart is composed of one cavity only, and the most complicated has no more than two; it would seem indeed to increase progressively in the number of cavities from one to four, which includes the mixed ; yet two of these ought not to be called parts of the heart, although they belong to it. The single cavity of the heart in the most simple class, or the two in the most complicated, are called ven- tricles. The other cavities belonging to it are called auricles. Many of those which have one ventricle only, have no auricle, such as insects ; but there are others which have both a ventricle and auricle, such as fish, the snail, and many shell-fish; some of the last class have indeed two auricles, with only one ventricle, which shows that the number of auricles is not fixed under the same mode of circulation. Those animals which have two distinct ventricles, constituting four cavities, are what are called quadrupeds or mammalia, and birds. If the auricles are con- sidered as parts of the heart, we might class animals which have hearts according to the number of their cavities, viz. monocoilia, dicoilia, tri- coilia, tetracoilia; the tricoilia is] a mixture of the dicoilia and tetra- coilia. This is the case in distinct classes of animals ; but it also takes place in other classes at different stages of life, for the foetus of the class possessing four cavities may be classed with the mixed, having but one auriqle, in consequence of the communication which exists in the foetus between the two; and also but one ventricle, by means of the union which exists between the two arteries, which produces an union of blood, although not in the same way. Those passages, however, are shut up almost immediately after birth, or at least the canalis arteri- osus*, which immediately prevents the foramen ovale from producing its former effects; therefore it is not so necessary it should be shut up in the adult. I have seen it, to common appearance, as much open as in a foetus. * There have been instances of the canalis arteriosus being open in the adult.176 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. The heart may be considered as a truly mechanical engine; for al- though muscles are the powers in an animal, yet these powers are them- selves often converted into a machine, of which the heart is a strong instance; for from the disposition of its muscular fibres, tendons, liga- ments, and valves, it is adapted to mechanical purposes; and this con- struction makes it a complete organ or machine in itself. It is most probable that by means of this viscus a quicker supply of blood is fur- nished than otherwise could be effected. In birds and quadrupeds, the heart, by its action, first throws out the blood, both that which is fit for the purposes of life, and that which requires to be prepared, the last having lost those salutary powers in the growth, repairs, secretion, etc. in the machine. It may be said to give the first impulse to the blood, producing a greater velocity where the blood is simply conveyed to the parts for whose use it is destined. This velocity is alternately greater and less, and from the construction of the arteries alone, is gradually diminished, becoming more uniform where slowness and evenness of motion is ne- cessary. This velocity of the blood in those parts where it is to be con- sidered as passing only, allowTs a much larger quantity to flow through the part to which it is destined than otherwise could be transmitted. The heart is placed in the vascular system, to be ready to receive the blood from the body, and to propel it back on the body again, although not in the centre of the whole; but it is reasonable to suppose that its situation is such as to be best suited to the various parts of the body; some parts requiring a brisk, others a more languid circulation. Some also require a greater supply of blood than others. We may suppose that the parts near the heart will receive more blood than those at a greater distance, because the resistance will be less if the vessels are of equal size in proportion to the size of the part. The situation of the heart in the body varies in different animals. One would imagine when the animal was divided into its several por- tions, appropriated for the different purposes, that the situation of the heart would be nearly'the same in all; but we find this not to be the case; its situation depends upon the organs of respiration more than any other part. It is placed in what is called the chest in the qua- druped, bird, amphibia, fish, and in the aquatic and terrestrial insect: but not in what may be called the chest in the flying insect. The chest in the aquatic insect seems best suited to contain the lungs and branchiae, and therefore the heart is placed there; but as the lungs of the flying insect are placed through the whole body, the heart is more diffused, extending through the whole length of the animal. The situ-177 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. jition, therefore, of the heart is chiefly connected with that of the lungs; aand when it is united with the body at large, it is because tlie lungs are also so disposed. We must suppose that these two have a relation :to each other. A heart is composed of an auricle and ventricle, and it is the ventricle jvwhich sends the blood through its course in the circulation ; so that, :from what has been said, it must appear that the ventricle is the true hheart, the other parts having only secondary uses. As the ventricle is tthe part which propels the blood to the different parts of the body, its muscular power must be adequate to that purpose, and therefore it has a very strong muscular coat. Much more pains than were necessary ' have been taken to dissect and describe the course and arrangement of the muscular fibres of the heart, as if the knowledge of the course of its fibres could in the least account fox its action. But as the heart can, in its contracted state, almost throw out its whole contents, to pro- duce this effect its fibres must pass obliquely. Its red colour arises probably from its being at the fountain head of • the circulation, for those animals that have but little red blood, have it ■ only in those parts near the heart; and the heart being nearest to its own powers, receives the blood before the vessels can so act as to dis- pose of the red blood, or allow of a kind of separation by distance; its t constant action, too, renders it more red, as happens in other muscles. The ventricles in the quadruped, bird, and amphibia, are called right and left, and this accords very well with the situation in such animals; but where there is only one ventricle, and that in some acting the part of the right, as in fish, and in others acting the part of the left, as in the snail, we ought to have some term expressive of their immediate ■ use, and such as would apply to all animals that have such a viscus". The auricles of the heart are to be considered only as reservoirs for ' the blood, to be ready to supply the ventricles ; for an auricle is not to be found in all the animals which have a ventricle ; nor does the number [ of auricles always correspond to that of the ventricles. Where the veins i) entering into the heart are small, in comparison to the quantity of blood | which is wanted in the ventricles, there we have an auricle; but where the veins near to the heart are large, there is no auricle, as in the lob- j-ster, and generally in insects. In the snail, where the veins in common [The epithets pulmonary and systemic sufficicntlv express this difference of | function.] VOL. hi. v178 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. are large, yet as they are small where they enter the heart, there is an auricle ; and as its office is somewhat similar to a large vein, it has some of its properties, viz. being in some degree both elastic and muscular. The name sinus venosus is a very proper one ; and as a proof that it is only such in the circulation, there are no valves placed between it and the veins®. As the heart is an engine formed to keep up the motion of the blood, and as it is necessary that this motion should be determined in a par- ticular direction, it is adapted, as are also the other parts of the vascular system, to this purpose. The heart is formed into a cavity, through which the blood must pass, receiving at once a considerable quantity of this fluid, upon which it immediately acts with equal force, although not progressively, as an intestine ; and that this motion of the blood may be regulated, and a re- trograde motion prevented, we find the valves constructed. A valve, I believe, is in general understood to be a part in every ma- chine calculated to allow whatever is to pass to move in one direction only, and the valves in the vascular system are intended for this pur- pose. They are of two kinds, having trwo modes of attachment, which is suited to the action of the part to which they are attached, and making a very essential difference in their formation. They are thin * [In fish, as well as in several other animals, there are commonly placed two cre- scentic-shaped valves at the entrance into the auricle, between it and the sinus venosus, or bulbous enlargement of the vena; cava;, which fact the author must have been well acquainted with, as several preparations are set up in the Hunterian Museum illus- trative of this point. The observation, however, of the author in other respects is per- fectly correct, and might be illustrated by numerous examples from comparative ana- tomy. Thus, in most of the batrachian animals the auricles are remarkable for their large size and the weakness of their parietes, which unite to give them an appearance much more resembling a great venous sinus than a true auricle. This conformation is particularly conspicuous in the Siren lacertina, where the number of fimbriated folli- cular processes sent off from the auricle give it the appearance of the branchial divisions of the vena cava in the cephalopods. In the gallery, or physiological department of the museum (Nos. 873-974.), there are numerous examples of these superadded sinuses, together with every variety of cardiac construction. In the chameleon the auricles are provided with two very large venous receptacles, twice as large ns the auricles themselves, and extending the whole length of the chest; the object of which plainly is, to provide a receptacle for the superfluous blood when the tongue, which is a large erectile organ, and the only one assigned to this animal for the prehension of its prey, is not in action. {See Houston in Trs. of R. I. Acad., xvi. 177.) Indeed this species of construction seems to be connected with the varying conditions of the circulation in most of those animals in which it occurs, whose habits of eating, diving, breathing, or exerting themselves are generally extremely irregular.]OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 179 inelastic membranes, having no action within themselves, with one edge fixed, the other loose in some, but not entirely so in others; they are either attached in a circular form, or in an oblique one. The cir- cular attachment belongs to those of the ventricles, and the oblique to those of the arteries and veins. The circular are the most complex, requiring an additional apparatus to make them answer the intended purpose; for it is necessary that their loose floating edges should be restrained from inverting themselves into the auricle upon the contrac- tion of the ventricles. This is done by tendons, which are fixed at one extremity along the edge of the valves, and at the other to some part upon the inside of the ventricle. The tendons which are longest are inserted into columns of muscle, the intention of which is very evident: for if they had gone the whole length in form of a tendon, they would have been too long when the heart contracted, and the valves in such a case would have allowed of being pushed into the auricles, so far as to admit of the blood escaping back again into the cavity; but the carnesc columns: keep the valves within the ventricle, in the contracted state of the ven- tricles ; and the dilatation of the ventricles counteracts them, and places the valves in their proper situation in that state. If the valves in this cavity had been placed obliquely along the inner sides of the ventricle, as in the beginning of the arteries and in the veins, the attachment then would not have been permanent; for it would have varied according to the relaxed or contracted state of the heart: it would have been short in the contracted state, and longer in the relaxed; therefore, to have a fixed base, it was necessary for them to be attached all round the mouth of the ventricles. I have reason to believe that the valves on the right side of the heart do not so perfectly do their duty as those of the left, therefore we may suppose it was not so necessary. The vessels of the heart are called coronary arteries and veins. In quadrupeds and birds there are two coronary arteries, which arise from the aorta just at its beginning, behind two of the valves of the artery. From this circumstance a theory respecting the action of the heart was raised; but in the amphibia they arise at some distance, and not always from the same artery in the same species, often from the subclavian, and often from the anterior surface of the ascending aorta, which is reflected back. In the fish they arise from the artery as they are coming from the gills. The veins pass into the right auricle. In all animals which have an auricle and ventricle, so far as I know, there is a bag (unattached) in which they are placed, called a pericar- n 2OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 180 dium* ; but the insect tribe, whether aerial, aquatic, or terrestrial, have none, their heart being attached to the surrounding parts by the cellular membrane, or some other mode of attachment. In those ani- mals which have this bag it is not a smooth termination of the cellular membrane, as the peritonseum may be supposed to be, but a distinct bag, as in man and all quadrupeds. The use of this bag is probably that the heart may move with more ease and facility; the two parts, to wit, the contained and containing, acting as a kind of joint with a capsular ligament, and like such joints it contains a fluid, but not a synovia, as the two surfaces are not hard like cartilage; besides, the heart is kept very much in its place, which we must suppose is of use. I have conceived it also to be possible, as it is a pretty strong membrane, that it might in some degree preserve the heart from too great distension; for I have observed, by injections, that a little force will distend it beyond its natural size, if a part of the pericardium be taken off; but in the heart mentioned by Dr. Baillie there was no particular increase of bulk. This bag, Hke most others, has a fluid which moistens the two sur- faces. In every other cavity of the body the fluid is no more in quan- tity than what is simply sufficient to moisten the parts. In this bag, however, it is more, from whence it has acquired the name of liquor pericardii. There may be about a tea-spoonful in the whole. This fluid appears to be serum, and is commonly a little tinged with blood, which arises from the transudation of the red blood after death. That this cavity has more water in it than most other cavities of the body, may arise from there being a greater action of those parts on one an- other than takes place in others; it may also fill up the interstices formed between two round bodies, so that when the pulmonary artery and aorta arc filled they may more easily assume a round figure. The size of a heart we should naturally suppose is proportioned to the size of the animal and the natural quantity of blood, which last is, we might conceive, ever in proportion to the size of the animal; but I believe these modes of calculation will not be found to be just, for certainly some animals have much more blood in proportion to their size than others; and I believe the heart is not in size proportioned to the size of the animal, but bears a compound proportion or ratio to the quantity of blood * There have been instances where the pericardium has been wanting in the human subject: a case of this kind is published by Dr. Baillie, in a periodical work entitled “ Transactions of a Society instituted for promoting Medical and Chirurgical Know- ledge.”OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM- 181 , i to be moved and the frequency of the stroke it has to make ; for when the quantity of blood is decreased, the frequency of the stroke must be in- i creased; and as a proof of this we find when an animal loses a consi- (derable quantity of blood, the heart increases in its frequency of stroke, ; as also in its violence. That it principally bears proportion to the quantity of blood is evident; for the right ventricle is equal in size 1 to the left, if not larger, although it sends its blood to the lungs only, ■ which are infinitely small when compared with the whole body; and i i the hearts of those animals which have but one ventricle, as fish for : instance, which is similar in use to our right, are perhaps made as j! large in proportion to the size of the body as both ventricles in the quadruped3. The strength of a heart is commonly, if not always, in proportion to ; the size of the parts to which the blood is carried and the velocity with which it is propelled; which becomes a collateral proof that it is a universal agent in the circulation. In the complete heart this is not i t equal in every part of the same heart; the right ventricle being much weaker than the left, but still in the above proportions. The propor- J1 tion between the two will be best known by ascertaining the differ- i ence in the strength of the two arteries, and this again will differ ; according to the whole parts the blood is sent to by the heart. In the : fish, for instance, it is only necessary it should bear the proportion in : strength to the whole fish that our right ventricle bears to our lungs, which is not in the least equal to that of the left ventricle ; or, in other words, its strength should be commensurate with the size of the lungs. However, it is most probable that the right ventricle in the quadruped . is stronger than in this proportion, because it is obliged to move a larger quantity of blood than is contained in any other part of the body of the ; ■ same size, and with greater velocity: in the double heart, therefore, i such as the human, the two cavities are not of equal strength, each 1 being nearly in proportion to the size of the parts, or rather to the di- stance the blood is to go ; the right ventricle only throwing it into the lungs, the left into the body. As a proof of this doctrine, we find that a [The heart in animals of large dimensions is singularly small as compared with the bulk of the whole body, at the same time that its action is remarkably slow. In the foetus, on the contrary, the heart is proportionably large, and its action in the same degree rapid. It would appear from the investigations of Treviranus, that the size of the heart as compared with the whole body decreases in proportion as the animal de- scends in the zoological scale. The following were the respective weights of the heart in different animals: mammalia, to birds, ^ to -p^; amphibia, to fishes, -,Ji 0 to rJ 0. The rate of pulsation seems to diminish nearly in the same pro- portion as the size.]182 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. in the foetal state of this class of animals the two ventricles and the two large arteries are equal in strength. Indeed, from reasoning we should expect this, and even that the right ventricle should rather be the strongest, for at this period it sends the blood to the lower extremities; but since both the arteries unite into one canal, we must suppose it to be necessary that the velocities of the blood in both should be equal; and upon examination we find the two ventricles to be nearly equal in thickness in this young state of the animal. The mixed kind of heart, as that of the turtle, &c., is under the same predicament. The two ventricles are to be considered as joint agents in the circulation; and as the pulmonary artery and aorta are equally strong, it becomes a proof that the strength of the heart must be equal everywhere. If we were to estimate the strength of the ventricles in those pos- sessed of four cavities, by the strength of the aorta and pulmonary ar- teries, either by their absolute strength or elasticity, we might come pretty near the truth. Dr. Hales made an experiment on ahorse to ascertain the strength of the arteries, which gives us the power of the left ventricle ; but all this explains nothing, for its power is equal to the use wanted. The power of contraction of the ventricle must be within the strength of the artery; but it is hardly possible to ascertain what is the strength of an artery; nor, if we could, would it enable us to ascertain the strength of the ventricle, for the force of the heart is in part immedi- ately lost by the blood being allowed to pass on, although not so freely as if the artery was open at the other end : in proportion, therefore, to the retardment, the artery is affected. We can ascertain the elastic power of a given section of an artery, and also its absolute strength; but we are not acquainted with the size of a section that will give the strength of the artery to which it belonged W'hen the whole w-as in a perfect state or form. Exp. 1. A section of a sound aorta, close to the valves, three quar- ters of an inch long, was stretched transversely to its greatest extent, which state was ascertained by measuring it with a pair of compasses, and the artery was allow'ed to contract. The w'eiglit required to stretch it again to the same degree was one pound ten ounces. To break the artery required ten pounds and a quarter. Exp. 2. A section of the pulmonary artery, similar to the former in length and situation, required six ounces two drachms to stretch it to its full extent. To break it required eleven pounds three quarters. The use of this viscus is in general very well known ; however, its use has been frequently supposed to be more universal than it really is-OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 183 It gives to the blood its motion in most animals, and in all it sends the i blood to the organs of respiration : in the flying insect it sends the blood both to those organs and to the body at large; but in fish to those or- gans only, the body at large in them having no heart. In the amphi- bia there is an attempt towards a heart both for the lungs and body, but not two distinct hearts. In the bird and quadruped there is a di- stinct heart for each. We may say, therefore, that there is one heart for respiration and another for the life, nourishment, &c. of the animal: these constitute the two ventricles. As the extent of these two circulations is different, the two hearts, or, in other words, the two ventricles, are suited in their strength to the different extents of each circulation, as was observed above in treat- ing of the strength of the heart. How far the heart is alone capable of carrying on the circulation is not to be ascertained; for although the circulation is carried on in para- lytic cases, yet this does not exclude the involuntary nervous influence of the part: this, however, varies very much in different classes of ani- mals ; for I have already observed, concerning the structure of the arte- ries, that their muscularity assisted in the circulation, and that in pro- portion as the vessels in general were endowed with this power the heart was weaker. I believe that the quadruped has the strongest heart of any class of animals; and I believe that their vessels have the least muscular power, more especially near the heart. The immediate use of the heart in an animal would seem to be ge- nerally subject to as little variety as that of any other viscus ; but per- haps the heart is subject to more variety than any other part in its con- struction. I have observed that it is either single, double, or mixed; that it is single without an auricle, single with one auricle, single with two auricles, double with a union of the twro, making the mixed, and double with two auricles. With respect to its use, it is, in the most simple kind of single heart, to propel the blood through the body, im- mediately from the veins; which blood is to receive its purification in this passage, wiien the lungs are disposed throughout the body, as in the flying insect. In another single heart it is intended to mix both the purified and the adulterated blood, and of course to throw it out to the body and lungs equally in this mixed state, as in the lob- ster. In the single heart, with an auricle, its use is, in one class, to throw the blood throughout the body, after being purified, as in the snail; and in another single kind, with an auricle, it is to receive the blood from the body, and send it to the lungs only, as in all fish. In the single heart with two auricles it is formed to receive the blood both purified and unpurified, and dispose of it to both body and lungs in that184 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. state, as was observed in the lobster: the same thing happens, in some degree, in the turtle, snake, foetus, etc. In the double heart with two auricles it acts like an union of the heart of the snail with that of the fish, one heart receiving the blood purified from the lungs, and sending it over the body, as in the snail; and the other receiving the blood from the body, and sending it into the lungs to be purified, as in the fish. From the above account we must see that the immediate use arising trom the heart in one class of animals will not agree with its immediate use in another; but still, in all it is the engine employed to throw the blood to those parts into which the arteries conduct itu. It is impossible to say what the quantity of blood is that is thrown out of the heart at each contraction. The size of a relaxed heart in the dead body of any animal gives us the size of the cavity, or what it is ca- pable of holding; but muscles seldom or ever are obliged to relax them- selves to their full extent in common actions, although they often are when extensive effects are to be produced. The heart, like every part constructed for action, has its times of action beyond, and also within, its natural limit of action; but it is its natural action which should be ascertained. If we compare the actions of the heart with those of the body, we may suppose that the common quantity of motion in the heart is about half what it can perform ; that is, it relaxes three fourths, and contracts one half; therefore a ventricle which contains four ounces, will, in common, only dilate so as to contain three, and will only contract so as to throw out two. The question is, when the heart acts with more frequency, as from a [I have already noticed a remarkable instance of the reach of Hunter’s genius in regard to the different phases which the higher orders of animals undergo in the pro- cess of their development, corresponding to the different types of inferior organization (see i. 264, note). Perhaps the most striking exemplification of this truth is to be found in the vascular system, the different conditions of which, presented by different classes of vertebrate animals, during the different periods of their development, represent each link of a continuous chain of developments, extending from the lowest animalcules up through the invertebrate genera, to fish, tadpoles, amphibia, and finally to man. As it would be impossible, however, in the brief compass of a note, to trace these va- rious and highly curious transformations through all their stages, and the means by which they are effected, I beg leave to refer the curious reader to Prof. Carus’s Comp. Anat, tr. by Mr. R. T. Gore; Prof. Grant’s Lect. on Comp. Anat. (Lancet, 1833-4. vol. ii.); Rolando, Sur la formation du Cceur et des vaisseaux arteriels, veineux et ca- pillaires (Journ. Compl. du Diet, des Sc. Med., xi. 323. xii. 34.) j Pander, Mem. sur le de- vel. du Poulet dans l’CEuf (ib. xiv. 306.) ; Ruscoui’s different works on the larva of the salamander and common frog; and also to the labours of Weber, Meckel, Martin St. Ange, and Cuvier. A brief description of these changes as they occur in man may be found in Meckel’s Manuel d’Anatomie, tr. by Jourdan and Hreschef, i. 143.]185 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. exercise, does it, or does it not also dilate and contract more lully, and also act with greater velocity in its contraction ? I believe that all these circumstances take place; for in exercise, the pulse not only be- comes more frequent, but fuller, as if more was thrown out of the heart; and the heart is found to make a greater emotion in the chest, striking with its apex against the inside of the chest with greater force*, which can only arise from a greater quantity being thrown out, and with greater velocity. The breathing corresponds with the quantity of blood and the velocity, for if a larger quantity passes through the lungs in a given time, the breathing must be in the same proportion increased; if with a greater velocity, the same thing must necessarily take place ; and if a greater quantity is thrown out, and with a greater velocity, then the arteries must relax in proportion, since the different parts must corre- spond with each other : we must suppose, therefore, that in health, when- ever there is any exertion greater than common, (which always increases the pulse,) the heart dilates more, contracts more, and does both with greater velocity; this I conceive arises from a necessity, which begins first in the veins, for when the body is in action the blood in the veins is obliged to move with greater velocity than when at rest: how far there may be other reasons for this, I will not pretend to determine. Another question naturally arises : as we find that the times of repe- tition of the pulse or the actions of the heart increase in many diseases, does the same thing happen, that is above supposed to arise, from ex- ercise in health? viz. does the heart dilate more, contract more, and also contract with more velocity ? I believe this case does not in the least correspond with our former position. The pulse in such circum- stances, although frequent, is small and hard, showing the arteries to be too much contracted by their muscular power, and therefore unfit to • The reason why the apex of the heart strikes against the chest in its actions was, I believe, first accounted for by the late Dr. William Hunter, in his lectures, as far back as the year 1746. The systole and diastole of the heart simply, could not produce such an effect; nor could it have been produced if it had thrown the blood into a straight tube, in the direction of the axis of the left ventricle, as is the case with the ventricles of fish, and some other classes of animals; but by its throwing the blood into a curved tube, viz. the aorta, that artery at its curve endeavours to throw itself into a straight line to increase its capacity ; but the aorta being the fixed point against the back, and the heart in some degree loose or pendulous, the influence of its own action is thrown upon itself, and it is tilted forwards against the inside of the chest*. a [The above explanation is correct as far as it goes; but the cause assigned is not the only one why the heart strikes with its apex against the ribs at the moment of con- traction. The direction of the mass of its fibres is also concerned, which tends to tilt the apex forwards, as may clearly be proved by placing the heart of any animal in a state of action on a plane surface, when it will be found that the apex moves forwards, although the base is comparatively stationary.]OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 186 receive a large quantity of blood from the heart in any given time. The breathing does not correspond with the frequency of the pulsations, as in the former instance; yet it is possible that nearly the same quan- tity of blood may pass as when in health, the velocity in the contracted state of the heart and vessels making up for the increased size of the artery. That it moves faster in such state of vessels is, I think, pro- bable ; for in bleeding, the blood in the veins during such a state of vessels is commonly more florid. Observations upon the heart’s motion while under the influence of artificial breathing. 1. I observed that the auricles contracted but very little, so that they did not nearly empty themselves. 2. That the ventricles were not turgid at the time of their diastole, for I could feel them soft, and could easily compress them. 3. That the ventricles became hard at the time of their systole. 4. That the heart, when it ceased to act, became nearly twice as large as when acting, and that it recovered its small size again whenever it began to act®. Observations on the above appearances.—From the first observation, it would appear that the auricles are only reservoirs, capable of holding a much larger quantity than is necessary for filling the ventricles at any one time, in order that the ventricles may always have blood ready to » [I subjoin the following extract from my friend Dr. Hope’s Treatise on Diseases of the Heart, p. 28, which places this subject in a clear point of view. The experiments from which the following conclusions were drawn were performed on an ass, and at- tested by competent witnesses: “ Of the Motions of the Heart. 1. “ The auricles contract so immediately before the ventricles, that the one motion is propagated into the other, almost as if by continuity of action; yet the motion is not so quick that it cannot readily be traced by the eye. 2. “ The extent of the auricular contraction is very inconsiderable, probably not amounting to one third of its volume. Hence the quantity of blood expelled by it into the ventricle is much less than its capacity would indicate. 3. “ The ventricular contraction is the cause of the impulse against the side; first, because the auricular contraction is too inconsiderable to be capable of producing it; se- condly, because the impulse occurs after the auricular contraction, and simultaneously with the ventricular, as ascertained by the sight and touch; thirdly, because the impulse coincides with the pulse so accurately as not to admit of being ascribed to any but the same cause. 4. “ It is the apex of the heart which strikes the ribs. 5. “ The ventricular contraction commences suddenly; but it is prolonged until an instant before the second sound, which instant is occupied by the ventricular diastole. 6. “ The ventricles do not appear ever to empty themselves completely. 7. “The systole is followed by a diastole, which is an instantaneous motion, accom-187 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. fill them. From observation the fourth, it would appear that any idea we form of the size of a heart, from those in dead bodies, must be far from the truth ; for the blood coming from every part of the body to the heart, in some measure distends it while it is in a relaxed state, so that when the heart begins to contract (as muscles do some time after death), it is kept dilated by the contained blood'1. However, it may be panied with an influx of blood from the auricles, by which the ventricles re-expand, but the apex collapses and retires from the side. 8. “ After the diastole the ventricles remain quiescent, and in a state of apparently natural fulness, until again stimulated by the succeeding auricular contraction. “ Of the Sounds*. 9. “ The first sound is caused by the systole of the ventricles. 10. “ The second sound is occasioned by the diastole of the ventricles. “ Of the Rhythm. 11. “ Order of succession: “ 1. The auricular systole. “ 2. The ventricular systole—pulse and impulse. “ 3. The ventricular diastole. “ 4. The interval of ventricular repose, towards the termination of which the auricular systole takes place. “ Duration. 12. “ This is the same as indicated by Laennec, viz. “ The ventricular systole occupies half the time, or thereabout, of a whole beat. “ The ventricular diastole occupies one fourth, or at most one third. “ The interval of repose occupies one fourth, or rather less. “ The auricular systole occupies a portion of the interval of repose.” With regard to the double sound, which, it may be observed, is distinctly isochronous with the systole and diastole of the ventricles, various opinions have been entertained ; nor indeed can the question be considered as perfectly decided at the present moment. Thus, the first sound has been variously ascribed to the rush of blood into the great ar- teries, to the closing of the auriculo-ventricular valves, to the muscular contraction of the heart, and to the collision of the particles of fluid in the ventricles. The second sound has also been ascribed to the reaction of the arterial columns of blood against the semilunar valves, thus suddenly tightening these bodies; and to the impulse of the blood from the auricles refilling the ventricles. (See Path, and Diag. of Diseases of the Chest, 3rd edit. p. 163., by Dr. C. J. B. Williams; Mr. Turner in Med. Chir. Trs. of Edin., iii.; Dr. Corrigan in Trs. of King’s and Queen’s Coll, of Phys. of Ireland (New Se- ries), i. 151.; 71/. Majendie in Lancet, 1834-5. i.; and Mr. Carlile in Dubl. Journ. of Med. Sc., iv. 84.)] a [This observation applies particularly to the right or pulmonic side of the heart, which was hence incorrectly concluded by Haller to be ^tha more capacious than the left. The left cavities are generally found nearly empty after death ; but during life it is probable that both ventricles have the same capacity. It is certain that they pro- ject the same quantity of blood in a given time, and therefore, if one is larger than an- other it must empty itself less perfectly at each systole.] * The sound which is heard when the car is applied to the region of the heart of a healthy person, is double, consisting of a dull slow sound, immediately followed by a short quick one.188 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. observed, that the increased size of the heart would be less in the present case, than natural, for the very quick motion of this viscus, under this irritation, hindered a full diastole ; but when I left off blowing, and the heart ceased acting, it became large; and on resuming my artificial breathing, it again became small, which I did three times in the course of this experiment. But I think I have observed in general that the heart is not so much affected by the stimulus of death as the other mus- cles of the body. We seldom see a dead body that is not stiff; but we very often find the heart large and flabby, and not in the least con- tracted ; and I am not certain but this may be the case also with some of the other vital parts, as the stomach and intestines. It is to be set down as a principle, that the action of every muscle is alternate contraction and relaxation; and it cannot be otherwise ; but as there is a necessity for a more constant and regular motion in the heart than probably in any of the other muscles, more disputes have arisen about the cause of its regular alternate motion. Some have accounted for it from the position of the mouths of the coronary arteries respecting the valves of the aorta, supposing, erroneously, that the heart has its blood in the time of its relaxation* ; but the circulation, whether exist- ing or not, has not such immediate effect upon a muscle; nor would it account for the action of the auricle in the same animal, nor for the action of the heart in a fish; but from what we shall observe on the valves of the aorta, we shall find that this opinion immediately falls to the ground. An easy experiment may put this beyond a doubt; for if the heart of a dog be laid open, and the coronary artery wounded, it will be found to jet out its blood as the aorta distends. Others have ac- counted for the alternate motion of the heart, from the course of its nerves passing between the two great arteries, so as to be compressed when the arteries are dilated ; but this could only produce relaxation. We know, too, that such immediate compression on a nerve has no such immediate effect upon a muscle, not to say that it would most probably make it contract; for when the nerves of the heart are cut, this does not stop its motion, but rather makes it contract for the instant. The heart’s motion does not arise from an immediate impulse from the brain, as it does in the voluntary muscles; and as it is only in the quadruped and bird that the nerves can be influenced in their passage to it, it does not account for this alternate motion in other classes of animals. The flowing of the blood into the heart has been assigned as a cause of its contraction; but even that ■will not account for it, although it will * This will be readily understood when I come to explain the mode of action in the valves of the arteries.OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 189 for many of its phenomena, yet not for all, for a local stimulus merely is too mechanical to produce all the variety attending the action of this 1 viscus ; it would not be attended with that regularity which it has in ; health, nor that irregularity which we find in disease; neither could it j ever stop, unless when absolute death took place ; nor resume its action if it ever did stop. We find that those parts which have occasion for the ; immediate stimulus to produce action, have that action very irregular, j as, for instance, the bladder of urine and intestines. The bladder is I taking up its action as simply for itself, and not secondarily, however beneficial that might be for the whole in a secondary degree ; but the heart’s actions arise from its being so much part of the whole, as that the whole immediately depends upon it; therefore we must look out for another cause of this regular alternate action of the heart than that arising from mechanism or mechanical impression; something more im- mediately connected with the general laws of the animal ceconomy. The alternate contraction and relaxation of the heart constitutes a part of the circulation ; and the whole takes place in consequence of a : necessity, the constitution demanding it, and becoming the stimulus. It is rather, therefore, the want of repletion, which makes a negative ; impression on the constitution, which becomes the stimulus, than the i immediate impression of something applied to the heart. This we see to be the case wherever a constant supply, or some kind of aid, is wanted in consequence of some action; we have as regularly the stimulus for respiration, the moment one is finished, an immediate demand taking place; and if prevented (as this action is under the in- fluence of the will), the stimulus of want is increased. We have the stimulus of want of food, which takes place regularly in health ; and so it is with the circulation. The heart, we find, cannot rest one i stroke, but the- constitution feels it; even the mind and the heart is thereby stimulated to action. The constant want in the constitution of this action in the heart, is as much as the constant action of the spring of a clock is to its pendulum, all hanging or depending on each other1. * [This is another of those instances in which the author has mistaken the final for the proximate cause. The feeling of hunger is obviously not the cause of the action of the muscles of deglutition, nor the sense of present danger the cause of a man’s changing his position ; neither is “ want of repletion” the immediate cause of the heart's action. The final cause it may be, but it cannot be the immediate. In treating the question of the heart’s action, two points require consideration : 1st, what is the source whence the muscular fibres of this organ derive their suscepti- bility of alternate contraction and relaxation; 2nd, what is the immediate cause which excites them to action. I. With regard to the first of these points, though physiologists have, with few ex- ceptions, attributed this susceptibility to nervous influence, they have differed greatlyOF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 190 The nearest dependence of the heart is upon the lungs, and probably they have the same upon the heart. The two together become, in their respecting the portion of that system under the controul of which they have supposed the heart to be placed. The most ancient opinion was, that the heart, like the other muscles of the body, was under the dominion of the brain; but the well-known facts, that acephalous foetuses continue to live and grow, that the circulation may be kept up by the aid of artificial respiration for several hours after decapitation, and that in some reptiles the whole brain may be removed in successive layers without affecting the heart’s action, have caused this opinion to be now generally abandoned. According to a second opinion, which originated with Legallois, the actions of the heart depend on the brain and spinal chord, but with this difference in respect of com- mon muscles, namely, “ that the heart derives its power from all parts of the spinal chord, without exception; whilst on the other hand, each part of the body besides derives its power only from a single part of the chord,—that, namely, from which it receives its nerves.” This conclusion was drawn from experiments on frogs, in which the brain and spinal marrow were wholly destroyed by means of a wire introduced through an opening into the cranium. In these experiments the heart's action was entirely sus- pended for a few seconds, and though it recovered itself again after a short period, yet the rhythm was so altered, and the action so feeble, that no haemorrhage ensued on de- capitation, or amputation of the thighs, from which he hastily inferred, that this resumed action essentially differed from what occurs naturally, and in fact resembled the action of muscles which are irritated after death. If a part only of the brain or spinal marrow was destroyed or broken down, then the action of the heart was only enfeebled, and that in exact proportion to the amount of destruction. Dr. Wilson Philip repeated and varied these experiments of Legallois, and ascertained that the spinal marrow may be cautiously removed without affecting the action of the heart; but that if this destruction be effected suddenly, as by crushing, then the action of the heart and vessels is immediately enfeebled, or else totally destroyed. He also found that the heart was highly susceptible of being affected by substances applied to the brain or spinal marrow, such as alcohol, opium, &c. j and hence concluded, that though there is no necessary connexion in the way of cause and effect between the in- fluence of the nervous centres and the motions of the heart, yet that an intimate rela- tion exists between them. Dr. Marshall Hall has however shown, that similar effects are produced on the heart when other parts of the body are subjected to similar treat- ment ; that alcohol, or infusion of opium, affects the heart equally when applied to the external skin, as when applied to the brain, and that the heart’s action is equally ar- rested by crushing the stomach, or even the extremities, as by crushing the brain or spinal marrow ; and he therefore objects to Dr. W. Philip’s conclusions. Examples, in- deed, of this kind occur continually to the surgeon, in which the effect of a severe crushing injury to an extremity sinks the powers of the circulation beyond recovery, although amputation of the same part might have been performed with impunity. M. Flourens admits that the spino-cerebral system, especially that part of it which administers to respiration, is necessary, to give energy and duration to the circulation; but he does not believe that this function is essentially and immediately dependent on the influence of these nerves, from the impossibility of reconciling such an opinion with the fact of the circulation going on in decapitated and acephalous animals. The want, then, of such a connexion between the spino-cerebral system and heart as is found to subsist between the former and the system of voluntary muscles, has led to the adoption, by some physiologists, of a third opinion, namely, that the actions ofOF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 191 immediate use, interwoven with the whole, for a stoppage of respiration produces a stoppage of circulation, and a restoration of respiration pro- the heart are dependent on the influence of the ganglionic system. This opinion is less capable of being proved or disproved than either of the others, in consequence of the ex- treme difficulty of separating the heart from its connexions, or at least all the nerves from the heart; so that though the heart of a turtle, apparently detached from its con- nexions, and completely removed from the body, will sometimes continue to beat for nearly an hour, yet we cannot be certain that this action does not depend more or less on the nervous filaments which enter into its substance. Sir Charles Bell has moulded these various opinions in accordance with his own pe- culiar views of the nervous system, making the ordinary action of the heart to depend on the ganglionic system, but its connexion with the respiratory and sensorial functions to be derived through the cerebro-spinal nerves or par vagum; but it must be obvious that such an hypothesis is open to several of the objections urged against the opinions just stated. Not satisfied with any of the above-mentioned views, Mr. Herbert Mayo has offered an entirely different explanation of the matter. Finding that the natural state of the voluntary muscles, in the absence of any special stimuli, is that of permanent relaxation or contraction,—that when irritated, they contract by a single and momentary effort, and when divided, instantly retract; that the involuntary muscles, on the contrary, retract slowly and gradually when divided, and when mechanically stimulated take on not one, but a series of actions,—he argues that the natural state of the latter class is that of alternate relaxation and contraction, and that consequently no special stimulus is required to induce a succession of actions in these parts, “ For the brief period,” he observes, “during which it is reasonable to suppose that the heart retains its perfect organization, no stimulus seems required to excite it to contract. The alternation of action and repose seems to be natural to its irritable fibre, or to be the immediate re- sult of its structure ; they appear not, like similar phenomena in the diaphragm, to de- pend upon a series of impressions transmitted from the brain or spinal chord.” There are some facts which seem to favour this view, and indeed to lead to the belief that incitability and contractility are properties inherent in and peculiar to muscular fibre totally independent of the nervous system, and that in fact the actual relation of this system to the muscular is that of supplying the stimulus to and regulating the ac- tions of the latter in obedience to the necessities, exterior and organic, of the con- stitution ; for, 1st, there is no proportion between the degree of contractility enjoyed by different muscles and the number and quantity of their nerves; while, 2nd, local forms of paralysis sometimes occur in which no agent, either electrical or galvanic, can induce contractions in the part, although the nerves going to that part are completely un- changed. In fact, those parts which possess the smallest number of nerves, as the heart, the intestines, the stomach, &c., are uniformly found to retain the power of spontaneous contraction after death for the longest period of time, while even the voluntary muscles are obedient to the same law, and retain their contractile property much longer where the animal has been stunned previously to the experiment being made. The connexion, however, which exists between the due supply of nervous influence and the power of contraction in the muscles, is so intimate as scarcely to allow us on these grounds to consider them in any other light than as cause and effect; and one of the most weighty objections to Mr. Mayo’s hypothesis is, that it obliges us either to consider the former as not essential to the latter in the case of the muscles generally, or to draw a stronger line of distinction between the causes of action of the voluntary and involuntary muscles than seems in nature to exist. It appears to me that we have not yet a sufficient number of data on which to decide192 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. duces a restoration of the circulation or heart’s motion. Thus, in my experiments on artificial breathing, the heart soon ceased acting when- ever I left off acting with my bellows ; and upon renewing my artificial breathing, it, in a very short time, renewed its action, first by slow de- grees, but became quicker and quicker till it came to its full action. I believe this experiment cannot be reversed; we cannot make an this question. The heart’s action has been maintained by means of artificial respiration for upwards of two hours and a half after decapitation; and even acephalous fcetuses have survived their birth several days: yet the experiments of Dr. Marshall Hall seem to warrant the conclusion that the heart's actions ultimately derive their energy from the cerebral masses, and cannot be maintained for any permanency after their removal, the circulation gradually failing from the periphery to the centre. Although, therefore, the heart is first in the order of development, and undoubtedly ranks supreme among the vital organs in complete life—so that we should not expect it to be essentially de- pendent on any other—yet we have reason for believing that it is governed by all the laws which regulate the relations of similarly important organs, as well as all the laws which preside over the actions of similarly constructed parts. To whatever opinion we may come respecting the dependence of the muscular fibres of the heart on the nervous system for their power of contraction, we can scarcely doubt that the nerves are the immediate agents through which the appropriate stimulus of the heart, namely, the blood, operates on these fibres, and excites them to action; and it may be, that this is their chief use in the ordinary actions of the heart. II. The second point to determine is, what is the immediate stimulus of the heart’s action 1 We have seen that the turtle's or frog’s heart may continue to beat for a full hour after it is detached from the body and entirely deprived of blood, and that a stur- geon’s heart pulsated regularly for ten hours under the same circumstances (p. 123, vote); but is it not probable that these actions depended on habit operating on a class of animals whose tenacity of life is extraordinary ? Under common circumstances it cannot be doubted that the heart, like every other organ, requires a special stimulus conveyed through the nerves to continue Its action, lncitability and stimulus are correlative terms in physiological argument, and necessarily imply one another; and therefore to ascribe with Hunter the action of the heart to a negative impression, arising from a want of repletion in the constitution, appears to me to be perfectly contrary to the spirit of sound philosophy. There can, I think, be no doubt that arterial blood, circulating among the fibres of the heart, is necessary to maintain the incitability of this organ; but it is the distension produced by the returning blood, irrespective altogether of its quality, which is the sole stimulus of its action. The experiments of Bichat sufficiently established this fact; which is I think still further confirmed by the observation of Laennec, viz. that the ventricles during their state of repose and fulness (which occu- pies one third of the time between one beat and another) do not take on their action until the auricular systole commences, or in other words until the utmost degree of dis- tension is produced in the ventricles. See note, p. 78 ;—also An Essay on the Circula- tion, by Marshall Ilall, M.D.;—Experiences sur la Circulation, by Spallanzani, tr. par J. Tourdes ;—On the Vital and Involuntary Motions, fyc., by It. Whytt, M.D.;—On the Vital Functions, by Wilson Philip, M.D.;—Du Systlme Nerveux, par M. Flourcns; Mem. de I’lnstitut, tom. x.Experiences sur le Principe de la Vic, par M. Le. Gallois;—On the Influence of the Brain on the Action of the Heart, by Sir B.C. Brodie, Phil. Trans. 1811. p. 36 ;—Sur la Vie et la Mart, par X. Bichat;—and Outlines of Phy- siology, by H. Mayo. ] !# - ■ ■.■T- ;■ y «.OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 193 artificial circulation, so as to know, that if we stopped the heart s mo- tion, we should so readily stop respiration ; and on producing the heart s motion, respiration would again take place ; hut if we could do this, I t doubt very much its being attended with equal success, because I be- i lieve that in all deaths respiration stops first; however, it must be sup- j posed, that if the heart stopped for any length of time, respiration would also stop; and if I were to take the following case as proof, it would appear that respiration would not go on without the heart s motion. A gentleman® was attacked with a pain in the situation of the pylo- i rus. The pain was such as indicated its seat to be in the nerves of ithe stomach and its connexions. It was such as he could hardly bear. The other attending symptom was a total stoppage in the actions of the 1 heart, and of course the face was pale and ghastly. Not the least signs of motion in the heart could be felt. In this state he was about three quarters of an hour. He was attended by Dr. Hunter, Sir George 1 Baker, Sir William Fordyce, and Dr. Huck Saunders. As he was per- fectly sensible at the time, and could perform every voluntary action, he observed that he was not breathing, which astonished him; and at [first conceiving he must die if he did not breathe, he performed the act of breathing voluntarily. This shows that breathing depends on the •actions of the heart; and it also shows, that under certain circumstances :the actions of both may be suspended, and yet death not be the conse- quence : as he spoke while in this fit, without attending to his breathing, iit shows that the breathing which produces sound is voluntary; and if we had only the power of involuntary breathing, then probably we could not speak, for it is probable we could not regulate the action of the .glottis and tongue (which are voluntary) to so regular an action of the lungs ; for in speaking it is the one acting so as to correspond with the other, both becoming voluntary. A gentleman had a singular asthmatic affection, and his breathing gradually stopt and again gradually reco- vered, but became violent, and this constantly and alternately held two or three minutes; and when the breathing ceased yet he spoke, although but faintly. In those animals which have two ventricles, it has been asserted by some that their actions are alternate; but observation and experiment •show us that the two auricles contract together, and that the two ven- tricles also contract together. This can be observed by simply looking on the heart in its actions, and if we in that state make a puncture into the pulmonary artery and the aorta, we shall find the jet in both at the same instant, corresponding with the contractions of the ventricles. * [The author here refers to what happened to himself. See Life, i. 44.] v VOL. III. O194 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. Indeed the circulation in the foetus is a proof of it, for in the child there would otherwise be two pulsations instead of one. This alternate motion of the heart is quicker in some classes of ani- mals than others, in some being extremely quick, in others very slow. In all the more inferior orders of animals I believe it is the slowest; and this may probably be in some degree in proportion to their imperfection. It is also slower probably in each class in proportion to the size, and we know it is slower in each species in some degree in proportion to the size, although not nearly exactly so. The pulse is also found to be quicker in the young than in the old of each species, in greater propor- tion than what we find arising from size only. Thus the motion of the heart of a caterpillar is extremely slow, and also of a snail. The motion of the heart in fish is not frequent; and we know' it is extremely slow in the amphibia; but in those possessed of tw'o ventricles, as in birds and quadrupeds, the motion of this viscus is much quicker: in them, too, it differs very much, in proportion to their size, although not nearly in the same proportion. Thus, a horse’s pulse is about thirty-six in a minute, while a man’s is about seventy. In the same species it is nearly of equal quickness; for in a man three feet high the pulse was eighty, w’hile a man above eight feet high had a pulse about seventy. §.6. General Observations on Blood-vessels. By the vessels in an animal are commonly understood those canals which carry the juices of the body, called the blood of the animal, to and from the heart, for the immediate purposes of the animal ceconomy; and in those animals where no heart is to be found, yet vessels are found, though their uses are not so demonstrable; and in some of a still more inferior order, where no vessels can be demonstrated, yet, from analogy, canals may be supposed to exist, and those should still be called ves- sels*. * Of this I am not certain. I have an idea that some animals absorb their nourish- ment, even without action, somewhat similar to a sponge, but dispose of it immediately by converting it into their own increase1. 1 [Ellis, the celebrated zoophytologist and a contemporary of Hunter, believed that he saw motions or actions in the mouths of the sponge analogous to those in the mouths of polypes; but it is now generally believed that he was deceived and that the ingestive orifices are passive, and that so far as they are concerned the nourishment is absorbed in the sponge, as Hunter states, without action. By what mechanism within the nu- trient canals of the sponge the currents which perpetually traverse them are produced has never been determined : analogy points to the vibratile action of extremely minuteOF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 195 The vascular system in an animal is, in some degree, to be considered as the efficient part of the whole animal respecting itself, every other part of the body being more or less subservient to it, and depending upon it for existence and support; and therefore, the greatest attention should be paid to every circumstance that can possibly explain the various uses of the vessels, for there is no operation respecting the internal ceconomy of the animal but is performed by them, insomuch, that for the con- venience of the vessels in performing those peculiar actions, they seem to constitute various combinations, which are called organs*. And al- though many parts have actions independent of the vessels, yet these are not for the purposes of growth, support, etc. So that the vessels are i constructed for the immediate use of the machine, and may be called labourers in the machine. This naturally implies something that is not vessel or vessels, a something that constitutes the different parts of the body, and is only more or less vascular. The vessels are probably the very first active parts in the system, for we find them in action before t they have formed themselves into a heart, and in such a state of parts we find them the only part that has any strength, while the other parts ; are only preparing for action : this is so remarkable, that we can dissect i the vessels of a chicken in the egg without injection, the other parts i easily giving way. These parts are formed of living animal matter, so 1 composed as to constitute the different structures, fitted for their differ- i ent uses, in the machine ; yet some parts are so vascular as to appear almost to consist wholly of vessels, as if vessels were formed into such structures; but this we cannot conceive, for then they must lose the ac- tion of vessels. In those animals where the vascular system is connected with a heart, which may be called the termination as well as origin of the vessels, we find that viscus to make so material a part of this system •Perhaps it may be difficult to give a definition of an organ that will meet every one’s ideas, or will distinguish those bodies accurately from what may be said not to be an organ. A muscle may be called an organ, but I would only consider it among the ma- terials of which an organ is composed. I have the same idea of elastic substances, cel- lular membrane, bone, cartilage, etc. I would, at present, define an organ to be a part of a particular construction, composed of a variety of substances, [elementary structures,] which are combined together to an- swer some particular purpose, which is the result of the actions of the whole. cilia as the cause. With respect to the canals which are continued from the stomach, and which convey by their ramifications the alimentary fluid directly to the parenchyma ■of the animal, these are beautifully exhibited by means of coloured injections in some ot the parenchymatous Entozoa and the Meditate in the preparation’s Nos. 843—848 in the Gallery of the Hunterian Collection.]OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 196 as to require particular attention. In many of these animals we find two systems of vessels, the arteries and veins, and most probably they exist in all of them ; there is also a third, which consists of the absorb- ents. The heart is the source of the arteries, and the termination of the veins and absorbents. The two first, depending on each other, form the circulation; and the third is essential to both, bringing the materials which are to circulate*. The arteries are to be considered as the acting part of the vascular system, since they perform a variety of actions the uses of which are very important in the animal oeconomy. They may be called universal or constitutional, for their actions are immediately productive of health or disease in the constitution; and if they could be diseased as a system, that disease would of course be universal: as their actions are expres- sive of health or disease, they become also one means of discovering either. There is no internal operation in the machine, respecting growth, natural repair, and secretion, that is not performed by them. No new part is formed, nor additional alteration made in the structure of natu- ral parts, nor repair for the loss of natural substances, either by disease or accident, but is made by the arteries, although of all these opera- tions we know nothing but from the effect produced. These operations are performed by the termination of the arteries, which may be sup- posed to be of three kinds : one may be called arterial, conveying de- bilitated blood into the veins, and through their whole length may be called arteries ; another kind consists of the separaters from the blood, performing the different secretions ; and the third contains the formers and supporters of the body : the two latter kinds I should not call ar- teries; they are the workers, or labourers*. * This system is too extensive to be described in the present work, although it will be necessary to describe one use not hitherto attributed to it, as it explains one part of my system of disease. * [The only evident termination of arteries is into capillaries, carrying red blood, which are plainly distinguishable from any other set of vessels, as well by their uni- formity of size as by the peculiarity of their mode of division and reunion. The arte- ries pursue a straight course, and up to a certain period are observed to divide and re- divide in a regular series of bifurcating divisions j the blood always flowing from trunk to branch, and the branch being uniformly found to be smaller than the trunk. After a certain period, however, the artery is observed to break abruptly into an irregular network of vessels, consisting of an intricate interlacement of capillary tubes of uniform cylindrical diameter, which divide and redivide, unite and reunite by an infinite number of anastomoses, presenting, especially in the pulmonic circulation of some of the batrachian animals, a beautiful and splendid device. The current of blood jn these vessels is probably more than twice as slow as in the smallest arteries, but in197 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. The absorbing system also takes a very active part in the animal ceconomy, whether natural or diseased, and seems in many actions to , consequence of the extremely devious and intricate course which it takes, it is next to impossible to follow any single globule through the mazes of its route into the veins: which veins again, I may observe, are formed by a re-collection of these tubes into the venous radicles, which uniting by twos and twos, in the reverse order of the arteries, ultimately form the venous trunks. The venous radicles are not unfrequently observed to anastomose with each other, but rarely or never the minute arteries; neither is it ever observed that these latter terminate directly in the veins, but the transition is uniformly effected through the in- i terposition of a capillary structure, which is proportionally more developed in the lungs i than in the other parts of the body. In the arteries the blood is of a lighter colour l than in the veins, and has a much greater velocity of motion; but in the capillaries the . colour and velocity of the blood are uniformly the same, although the slightest dis- ’ turbing causes are sufficient to make it flow faster or slower, or even to take a retro- I grade course where before it took a forward direction. In an unimpeded state of the i circulation the pulsation is barely visible in the arteries, and not very distinctly so in the capillaries; but it may be rendered distinctly so in both, as well as in the veins, by i impeding the course of the blood, by which the tension is increased so as even to pro- duce a remarkable oscillation of the globules. I have seen the globules advance and retire over a space at least twenty times their own length at each pulsation of the heart, and this for an unlimited length of time. One reason, I imagine, that the pulsation is not more visible in the minute vessels in the natural state of the circulation is, that our senses are unable to appreciate the differences of velocity of bodies in very rapid or very slow motion ; a cannon ball passing before our eyes at the rate of twenty miles an hour appears to go at the same rate as one at sixty miles, just as the hour-hand of a watch would still appear to go at the same rate as if it went twice as slow. Now as the actual area of the artery comprised in the focus of a high magnifying power is extremely small, at the same time that the apparent rapidity of the current is proportionally increased, the difference between the velocities in the systole and diastole of the heart is not per- ceptible. The difference in the degree of tension is certainly not the only cause of the difference in the degree of pulsation. I have said that the arteries never directly communicate with the veins, but always through a vascular network ; and this is strictly true in all warm-blooded animals, in which the systems of black and scarlet blood are preserved distinct. In inferior animals, however, as fish, the Batrachia, and even in the embryos of warm-blooded animals, ; as, iti the chick during the first days of incubation, such communications are found i to exist, because in these instances it is not of the same importance to keep these systems apart. The term capillary therefore ought exclusively to be applied to this interme- diate system of vessels, which appears essentially to differ both in function and distri- bution from any other parts of the vascular system. See Schultz, in Journ. de Progrts dcs Sc. Med., vii. 1828, and Dr. Marshall Hall’s Essay on the Circulation, 1831. Besides this visible system of capillaries, there can scarcely be any doubt that another system (invisible in consequence of its not admitting red globules) also exists. It is impossible otherwise to explain the nutrition of white structures, such as cartilage, the tunics of the eye, 8jc., or the phenomena of inflammation, when these structures become inflamed. The appearance which these colourless vessels assume when they become enlarged leads us to believe that they are similarly arranged as the coloured capillaries, and it is not improbable that all the processes of nutrition are carried on in these ves- sels. Haller and Bichat, and indeed most other physiological authorities, have super-OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 198 be the antagonist of the arteries; while the veins are much more pas- sive, being principally employed in returning the blood to the heart. It is probable that every part of the body is equally vascular, although they may not all have equal quantities of blood passing through them, which must arise from the smallness of the vessels, and not from their being fewer in number. When we say that a part is very vascular, we can only mean that it is visibly so, by having a large vessel or vessels going to it, and ramifying in it; from which circumstance it contains a certain proportion of red blood, rendering the vessels visible, which may also easily be made conspicuous by injections. Where the ves- sels are smaller this is not the case. When we say, therefore, that a part is not vascular, we mean it is not visibly so; but still we must suppose such parts to be equally vascular, so far as respects their (eco- nomy within themselves; but in such parts I conceive the blood to be more languid in its motion. Many parts appear to be much more vas- cular than they really are, from their vessels dividing and anastomosing, and taking a winding course before they terminate * ; for it is by the number of terminations of an artery in a given space that a part is made vascular or not vascular : muscles appear to be more vascular than they really are. When parts have another use, in which blood furnishes the materials to be disposed of, as in secretion and respiration, where vessels fitted for such purposes are superadded, then parts become pro- portionably more vascular. When blood does not seem to be the mat- ter to be disposed of, yet, if there are other operations continually carried on in a part, besides its simple support, as in a muscle, which has both the power of contraction and considerable sensation, &c., then the vessels are larger, and of course appear in great numbers. This is evident in the living body, for if a muscle is hardly allowed to act, its vessels become small, and it becomes pale; but if thrown into more violent action for a continuance, it becomes red: we cannot here sup- pose an increase of vessels, but only an increase of size. Thus we have parts vascular in proportion to the quantity of action they are capable • By simply cutting into the spermatic artery [chord ?] of a bull it appears to be ex- tremely vascular, though, according to our idea of vascularity, it is as little so as any part. added two other terminations to the arteries, viz. the exhalant and excreting vessels; especially as in the liver, kidneys, and some other glands, injections may be made to pass from the arteries or veins into the excretory ducts. I am not aware, however, of any single fact to show that there is more reason in favour of the exhalant and excret- ing vessels of Bichat than of the lateral porosities of Mascagni. This doctrine may be true, or it may not be true; but it certainly cannot be recognised at present as one of the undoubted facts of science. The same may be said of the “ workers, or labourers, of Mr. Hunter.]199 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. , iof or under the necessity of performing: and this particularly in parts 11 whose uses may be called double, as the organs of secretion in general, Ibrain, and muscles ; even in inflammation, and in proportion as these t; parts are employed in their peculiar actions, they become to appearance i: more vascular. Some animals have naturally red muscles, without its being the effect , of considerable action : this is very remarkable in the hare ; but the red- ness in the muscles of this animal may be intended to adapt its muscles i i naturally for violent exertions at all times. Muscles are of different t colours, respecting red and white, in the same animal; but that I believe is also in proportion to the quantity of action the parts are put to. This effect the epicure is well acquainted with : he knows that the wing of a partridge is whiter than the leg, and that the leg of a woodcock is whiter than the wing. The veal of this country is a remarkable in- stance of this : for the calf is hardly allowed to stir, and the muscles are white; but when the calf is allowed to follow its mother, the muscles are of a reddish colour. It may be, however, remarked that wrhite meat is commonly the least juicy; and we find it remarkably so in those animals which are fed for this purpose, because they require nothing but their simple support, and, having little or no action within themselves, they have but little wTaste. Such change of appearance we find carried to a considerable extent in the uterus at the time of the menses ; but much more particularly at the time of uterine gestation, where the vessels increase both in size and length, in proportion to the actions required. But parts whose use in the machine may be said to be passive, as tendon, cellular membrane, ligaments, investing membrane, bone, and cartilage (which last is probably the most passive), have all small vessels, and of course but few that are visible. As bone, however, is composed of two parts, viz. animal substance and earth, it is probable there may be more action required to form the latter than either tendon or cartilage, and therefore there will be more vessels. As a further proof that this is a general principle, we find that all growing parts are much more vascular than those that are come to their full growth ; because growth is an operation beyond the.simple support of the part. This is the reason why young animals are more vascular than those that are full-grown. This is not peculiar to the natural operation of growth, but applies also to disease and restoration. Parts become vascular in inflammation : the callus, granulations, and new- formed cutis are much more vascular in the growing state, or when just formed, than afterwards; for we see them crowded with blood-vessels when growing, but when full-grown they begin to lose their visible vessels, and become not even so vascular as in the neighbouring originalOF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 200 parts, only retaining a sufficient number of vessels to carry on the simple ceconomy of the part, which would now seem to be less than in an ori- ginal part. This is known by injections, when parts are in the grow- ing state, or are just growrn, and for some time after. We may observe when the smallpox is cured that the remains of the pustules are red and continue so for some time, which is owing to those parts being visibly more vascular than common; and those who have had the smallpox severely are in general afterwards more pale than others, when those parts have arrived at their permanent state. If we cut into a part that has had a wound or sore upon it which has been healed for a considerable time, we shall find that the cicatrix and the new-formed parts are not nearly so vascular as the original, which corresponds with what has been advanced, for we know that those parts are not equal in power to original parts. In short, whenever Nature has considerable operations going on, and those are rapid, then we find the vascular system in a proportionable degree enlarged. The number of vessels in a part, and also the circulation of the blood through them, appear to keep pace with its sensibility ; for first we find that most probably all parts endowed with vessels are sensible, and all sensible parts are to appearance very vascular. Where any in- creased action is going on, requiring increased sensibility, there is also an increased circulation through those vessels, as in the parts of gene- ration during the time of coition, more especially in the female; and this increase of vessels, circulation, and sensibility in a part takes place in disease ; as is well illustrated in inflammation, w'here the whole seems to be increased in the same proportion, especially the two last, viz, cir- culation and sensibility. These observations can only be made in animals which have red blood, and best in those which have the most red blood; but it is not possible to ascertain with accuracy the proportion that one blood-vessel bears to another, so as to know the exact quantity of blood each part may pos- sess, which w'ould better ascertain the action of the part; for they may be said not to be measurable with any degree of accuracy, and there- fore such calculations must be taken in the gross. Vessels have a power of increase within themselves both in diameter and length, which is according to the necessity, whether natural or diseased. The necessity appears to arise from an increase of the part to which the artery is going, the formation of a new part, or an ir- ritation. The first may be reckoned the natural increase of the body: the second, the occasional increase of parts, as of the uterus in uterine- gestation, where the vessels are increased in width in proportion to the whole solid contents, including the young; besides this, they are con-201 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. siderably increased in length before they reach the uterus, which obliges the spermatic artery in particular to be thrown into a serpentine form; this is more remarkable in some animals than in the human species. Instances of new-formed parts where the Vessels are increased, are to be found in the stag, or all those of the deer kind which cast their horns, such animals having the arteries considerably increased at the time the young horn is growing, so that the carotid arteries, which before had only to supply the head and the external carotid, which be- fore had oidy to supply the sides of the head, now become larger, and are continued into the horn, which is extremely vascular. After the separation of the foetus, or the full growth of the horn, the vessels na- turally lessen, to adapt themselves to the diminished size of the parts. It is curious to observe how vessels become enlarged upon any ir- ritation, not only the arteries, but the veins, and not only the smaller branches, but the larger trunks. This was evident in the following i case : I applied a caustic to the ball of the great toe of a patient every other day for more than a month, and after each application the sur- rounding parts put on a blush, and all the veins on the top of the foot, as well as up the leg, immediately began to swell, and became large and full. This was so remarkable that the patient watched for this effect on the days on which the caustic was applied, from its happening only on those days. In diseases where there is an increased size of the part, as in tumours, etc., the increase of vessels is no less conspicuous, and they have the power of dilatation and increase of strength, in proportion to the size of the vessels, which are now endowed with new dispositions and actions, < different from those they had before. The arteries often perform diseased operations in the body, which be- come symptoms both of local and constitutional actions, as in inflam- mation, fever, etc., for they are not only active in local disease, but their action often becomes a symptom of a constitutional disease, whether original, or arising from a local cause; but these symptoms become mostly sensible to us in those arteries whose actions we can feel, because they have a peculiar action in their diastole as well as in their systole, which is sensible to the touch, from which sensation we in many cases judge of the state of the body at the time, as also of the state of the cause, when it is local and out of sight. The heart, the source of the ' circulation, is also affected from the same cause, so that its motion and j the motions of the arteries commonly if not always correspond.202 of the vascular system. §. 7- Valves of Arteries. The arteries arising from the heart, I believe in all animals, have valves, which are so many flood-gates, to hinder a return of the blood into the cavities ; and as there are two main arteries in the human body, so there are two sets of valves, viz. one belonging to each artery. These are situated at the beginning of the artery, and, from their shape, are called semilunar. Veins have similar valves almost through their whole course. The valves are inelastic, being similar to the inner coat of an artery ; but the difference in the properties of the valves and the arteries themselves (which are clastic) will be further considered in treating of the use and mode of action of the valves. Each of these sets is made up of three valves*, but in veins there are commonly only two. This difference in the valves of the arteries and veins is perhaps to bring the artery into a more rounded figure than could have taken place by two valves only: each of these valves is of a semilunar form, having one convex edge, and the other nearly straight. These valves are attached to the insides of the artery, at its very beginning, by their semicircular edge, which is oblique, the points, as it were, running a little way into the artery. These terminations in each valve come close to one another, but the loose edges, which constitute the diameter, are not cut straight off, but rounded. There is, besides, a small body on each, attached to or near the edge, between the two points, called corpora sesamoidea. These bodies are not placed exactly on the edge, but rather on that side next to the artery, leaving the edge of the valve loose : this situation is best adapted to their intended use ; the reason of the loose edge being a little rounded, and of the bodies called corpora sesamoidea being placed there, arises from there being three valves to each artery. Each of these valves, with its artery, forms a pouch, whose mouth or cavity opens towards the artery ; and the convexity of each of the valves, when the artery is dilated, makes nearly the third of a circle, which is turned inwards towards the centre of the artery, as well as towards the heart. It is from this oblique direction in the attachment that the valves perform their office, simply from the action of the heart upon the blood, and the blood upon the artery. This is entirely mechanical, depending on mechanical principles alone, as much as the action of a joint. I have above observed, that the area described by the valves is the * I have found in the human subject only two valves to the aorta; but this is very rare. [Mr. Mayo has figured a similar case in his Outlines of Physiology, 3rd Edit. p. 54.]203 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. same with the artery when that vessel is in its systole, their outer sur- I face lining the inner surface of the artery; but the artery being elastic, iits diameter becomes larger when the blood flow's into it; and the ■ valves being inelastic, their loose margins or edges are brought more into straight lines across the area of the mouth of the artery, and nearer i to each other, so as to make an equilateral triangle. Thus they are (fitted to catch the returning blood, and the artery, reacting w'ith con- siderable force on the blood, presses it on the valves, so as to push l them inw'ards ; these, having no pressure on the side next the heart, be- icome convex on this side, shutting up entirely the mouth of the artery. Here then is an effect arising naturally out of a variety of causes, viz. the oblique direction of the valves, their want of elasticity, the elas- • ticity of the artery, and the dilatation of the artery; so that the return of the blood does not open the mouths of the valves, and in that wray shut up the mouths of the artery. To demonstrate this, let us suppose the extreme length of each of these valves to be an inch; then the cir- cumference of the artery, when in its systole, w'ill be three inches : in that case the valves lie close to the sides of the artery, and describe a i circle of three inches circumference (as in PI. XXI. f. 3.); but if you di- 1 late this artery as far as the valves will allow, which will be rather more ' than one fifth, the valves will run nearly into straight lines, and make an equilateral triangle (as in PI. XXI. f. 4.), whose sides are a little curved inw'ards. As the artery is filled from the contraction of the 1: heart, it is distended; and as it is distended, the valves do more and more their duty, till at length, by the full distension of the artery, they are made to bulge inwards, and the loose edges, with the corpora sesa- moidea, are pushed further tow-ards one another, by all of which posi- tions the area of the artery is entirely shut up“. * [If so great a dilatation of the artery, as is supposed, actually takes place during the systole of the ventricle, the effect upon the artery and valves would be different, I j conceive, from what is represented in the text; for taking the extreme length of the j ■ valves to be one inch, and the circumference of the artery, in its systole, as three inches, and in its diastole as three inches -(- -J- (which is the case supposed by the author), then would the artery, during its systole, dilate unequally, in the same manner as is observed in regard to veins; and instead of a circle, as in fig. 4. PI. XXL, would be thrown into a form exhibited in fig. 6.; that is, the dilatation of the artery would take place at all points, excepting where the valves are attached; but there, in consequence of the inextensibility of these bodies on the one hand and the impossibility of their [ assuming a straight direction on the other, while the pressure from behind remains, I the artery would bulge out in the intermediate spaces. The use of this arrangement I is very evident, as it tends to keep the edges of the valves (a a a fig. 5.) partly patent, j in readiness to catch the returning current of blood the moment the systole of the artery 1 commences. According to the explanation of the author, the area of the artery would be partially closed, as may be observed by inspection of fig. 6., and thus offer a consi-OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 204 PI. XXI. f. 3. shows the artery in its systole, with the three valves, nearly close to its sides. The two black dots are designed to represent the mouths of the coronary arteries, now covered by the valves. Fig. 4. shows the artery in its diastole, where the three valves run nearly into straight lines, making an equilateral triangle of the area of the aorta. But as their edges are rounded, and the bodies of the valves make a curve inwards, they by these means fill up in part this triangular space, as is seen at d d d; and the corpora sesamoidea fill up the remain- ing other part at e e e. In this way the whole of the area of the artery is filled up. The foregoing account is proved by injections against the valves; but it is still more clearly proved that the diastole of the arteries makes the valves do their duty, when it is injected with the current of blood; for in proportion as the artery is distended, the valves recede from the sides of the artery ; and if the artery is fully distended, the communication is entirely cut off between the two pieces of injection, viz. that which is within the heart and that which is within the artery8. It may be ob- jected here, that it will require a certain quantity of blood to make these valves do their office; and when there is not that quantity, it must be done by regurgitation. To this it may be answered, that nature always keeps a due proportion, and all the parts depend on one another; so that the quantity of blood that is just sufficient to keep the animal alive is sufficient to distend the artery so as to shut the valves*. The valves of the pulmonary artery do not do their duty so completely as those of the aorta, for in them we do not find the corpora sesamoidea; and if we inject a pulmonary artery towards the right ventricle, it does not so completely hinder the injection passing into that cavity; nor are the two portions of injection completely separated when the artery is * As people advance in life, especially men, we find the aorta losing its elasticity; and as it is acted upon with great force by the impetus of the blood, it loses that elas- ticity in the state of its diastole, which throws the valves continually across the area of the vessels; and as the valves in those cases commonly become thicker, and are often very irregular and bony, we find that they neither recede from Uie sides of the aorta, during the contraction of the heart, nor towards it during the systole of the artery ; so that more blood is allowed to regurgitate into the ventricle, than in a regular circulation. derable obstrtiction to the complete evacuation of the ventricle; besides, the degree of dilatation necessary to make the valves form an equilateral triangle is probably greater than ever takes place, particularly in debilitated states of the circulation.] a [This is very far from being conclusive. The reaction of the elastic parietes, which have been previously distended by the injection, drives the blood back again upon the valves, and closes them. I may observe, that the semilunar valves are not, generally, so perfectly formed as accurately to close up the area of the artery, while the tricuspid and mitral valves are still less perfect.]OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 205 injected from the ventricle, as in the left side. So far as respects in- jections, the same observations are applicable to the valvulae tricus- pides; therefore I believe the valves of the right side of the heart are not so perfect as those of the left; and from hence we may suppose that the universal circulation requires to be more perfect than that through the lungs. We must see from this account of the action of the valves, that the mouths of the coronary arteries are opened by the action of the heart; for as the arteries dilate, they become more and more exposed. §. 8. Of the Division, or Branching, of Arteries. As all the arteries in animals possessed of a heart arise from or begin at that heart by one or two trunks only, they are obliged to divide into or send off branches or smaller trunks, which again divide into still smaller, till at last the whole body is supplied by the ultimate divisions. This is called the branching or ramification of arteries, and is somewhat similar to the branching of a tree. This branching of an artery does not depend on the artery itself, or on the powers propelling the blood, as in a tree, but is governed by the formation of the body; that is, ac- cording as a greater or less quantity of blood, or a greater or less velo- city is necessary to different parts. Various modes of branching are made use of to answer the above purposes. In general the most favourable mode for the free passage of the blood is adopted, viz. branching with acute angles, more especially those which are to carry the blood some considerable way; and still more so in those which are at a great distance from the propelling im- pulse of the heart, which I shall now more particularly consider. As the force of the blood in the artery is stronger the nearer it is to the heart, the difference in the velocity of the blood, near and at a di- stance from the heart, if there was nothing to retard it, would be too great for the difference in parts; the near and the distant parts being in many instances of the same kind. To keep up a velocity sufficient for the parts, and no more, nature has varied the angle of the origin of arteries, at different distances from the source of the circulation. Thus we find that near the heart the arteries arise by obtuse angles; some of them being reflected, and the angles become less and less, till at length they are very sharp. The most remarkable instances of this are the in- tercostal and lumbar arteries : for these being a set of branches whose length and uses in the body are nearly the same, the difference is made in the greater obtuseness of the angles at which they arise in proportion206 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. as they are nearer the heart, as well as in the greater distance which they have to traverse in a retrograde direction from their origin to the parts supplied'1. We find a difference even in the arteries which arise from the intercostals ; for they are much more obtuse at the beginning of the intercostals than at their termination. The reason why this is not so evi- dent in all the arteries of the body is, that there are so few arteries on the same side of the body which take the same course, go to the same distance, and have the same office: for some parts require a greater velo- city than others, which will make a difference in the origin of the two arteries, supposing they should go the same length and take the same course. We see the same thing in the secondary arteries, such as the subclavian ; for it sends off its branches near its origin at much more obtuse angles than it does further on. Haller, in his Physiology, says that the arteries arise at an angle of forty-five degrees, which is the greatest angle in projection ; but he did not consider that in projection there are two powers, viz. gravitation and the force applied, while the blood in the arteries has only one. It may be asked whether the blood in an artery of a given size, arising from a large one, is sent with the same force as if the artery had arisen from a much smaller trunk, or from an artery of the same size with itself, whose blood passed with the same velocity as in the large one. We find small arteries coming off at once from large ones, instead of being a third, fourth, or fifth from the large one. Arteries send off their branches at a longer or shorter distance, according to cir- cumstances; or, in other words, they divide and subdivide more quickly in some places than in others. I believe this quick di-vision is more pe- culiar to glands than most other parts, though it does not take place in all, as in the testicle. They divide also quickly in the substance of the brain. In the kidney this is also remarkable : they would seem in that gland to be hurrying to their termination. The same happens as soon as the arteries enter the substance of the brain. Other parts appear to have the arteries elongated before they enter the part, as the spermatic artery; more especially in some animals, as the bull, boar, &c.; and in the female, in the time of uterine-gestation, where we should expect the quickest circulation, we find the arteries elongated very considerably, which throws them into a serpentine course: all of which must retard * [This passage I have ventured to alter. In is/ Edit, it stands thus: “ The most remarkable instance of this is in the intercostal and lumbar arteries; because, since they are a set of branches in the body whose length and uses are so much the same, if there be any difference in the angles, at the origin of the arteries, at equal distances from the heart, it must be made with regard to their length, from the origin to the part sup- plied.”]OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. I may observe, by the way, that the arch of the aorta, or rather the great trunks 907 the blood’s motion in the part. We also find arteries playing in the parts, ramifying and anastomosing, which diminishes the velocity of the blood, such as those of muscles, membranes, &c. We may suppose, from the foregoing instances, that in some a quick supply of blood was ne- cessary in such parts; in one for the drain, in another for the support of the living powers; while in others a more regular, slow, and even motion answered the purpose better. Arteries in common pass in as direct lines from their origin to their destination as possible; but this is not universally the case, for in many parts they run in a serpentine manner, so much so in some as to form a body of themselves. Thus, the spermatic artery in the male of many animals, more especially the bull, is so convoluted as to form a body. In the female also the spermatic artery increases its serpentine course in the state of uterine gestation. The internal carotid artery in man and many other animals, as the horse, where it passes through the skull, runs in a serpentine direction ; and in the lion, bull, &c. it forms a plexus. This would appear to answer two purposes : one to lessen the impulse of the blood, as in the vertebral and internal carotid, sper- matic artery, &c.: the other to allow of the stretching of the parts upon which the artery passes, as the mouth or lips, the uterus, and other parts of the body which admit of being stretched or relaxed, as the bladder, stomach, intestines, &c., independently of their elasticity. We find not only the different systems of vessels communicating with each other, as the arteries with the veins, the veins with the heart to be continued into the artery again, and the absorbents with the veins to communicate in the end with the whole, but also the branches of each system communicating with one another, which is called anasto- mosis. Anastomosing of vessels is the opening of one vessel into another; so that if one of them be prevented from carrying its contents, the office can be performed by the other. The most common mode of anastomos- ing is when two vessels run into one, or are continued into each other, or one vessel opens into another, from which others arise ; but there is a peculiar communication between the two carotids, as well as between them and the vertebral, where a canal of communication passes directly between them; and this mode of communication takes place between the two descending aortas of some of the amphibia3. a [A similar construction is sometimes observed in the human subject, and has been figured by Tiedemann in his Tabula Arteriarum, Pi. iv. fig. 7.208 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. This anastomosing is much more frequent in the smaller than the larger arteries. We seldom find trunks anastomose with one another. One reason for this is the great disproportion in number between the larger and smaller arteries ; but the anastomosis is much more frequent in the smaller, in proportion to their number. The use of this is to give freedom to the circulation, as the chance of a stop being put to it is greatest in the smaller arteries, the circulation in them not being so strong, and passing through parts liable to be pressed upon. This is readily seen in the transparent parts of the living body, when viewed through a microscope. In some parts of the body we find anastomoses in pretty large trunks; but these are in parts essential to life, very liable to be com- pressed, or both. The mesenteric artery anastomoses by large trunks; the mesentery being a part essential to life, and very liable to compres- sion, from indurated faeces compressing the artery. In this case, if they only anastomosed by the small branches, on the intestines, the circulation might not be kept up sufficiently to preserve the gut. We observe the same thing in the brain ; for there the arteries anastomose by large trunks, before they are distributed to the brain. The use of this is that all parts of the brain might have an equal quantity of blood at all times, even where accident had put a stop to the circulation in any one vessel; for the small anastomoses on the pia mater would not be sufficient to keep up a due circulation everywhere in the brain; as I believe the arteries do not anastomose in the substance of the brain it- self. There are large anastomoses in the hand and foot, for the same reason as in the intestines. All the uses arising from the anastomosing of the vessels, are, per- haps, not yet perfectly understood: general reasons can, I think, be assigned for them; but these will not apply to all cases : there is some- thing, therefore, more than we are yet acquainted with. The absorb- ents and the veins, upon the whole, anastomose more frequently than the arteries ; yet that circumstance is reversed respecting the veins in which arise from the arch, are subject to more variations from the normal type than perhaps any other artery in the body. It has generally been thought that the venous system presents greater and more numerous anomalies in its distribution than the arterial; and this observation is un- doubtedly true as far as regards the superficial and smaller vessels, but not as regards the deep-seated and more considerable trunks. The aorta, for instance, is subject to at least twenty-nine varieties, in regard to the vessels which arise from its arch, whereas only one has been observed with respect to the vena cava superior, viz. when (he right and left subclavians do not join previously to their reaching the heart. So likewise the renal and brachial arteries are much more irregular than the corresponding veins.]OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 209 >«orae places, and in these instances the uses of these systems of vessels . ire also in some measure reversed. Where all the three systems of , vessels have nearly the same mode of action, we find that their manner ■. of anastomosing is somewhat similar, and probably the differences might be easily accounted for. Wherever they appear to be simply carriers, ’then their mode of anastomosing is somewhat similar: however, the . absorbents anastomose more frequently than the veins, and the veins more than the arteries, and probably the absorbents anastomose every- where. This is not so much the case with the veins, and not in the ! least so in some parts with the arteries. Let us see if we can assign reasons for all this variety in the dif- ferent systems of vessels. The absorbents, from the office of absorbing, are to be considered only as carriers; and as they have no propelling force applied to their contents, and their coats are not strong, it is very probable that a free communication between vessel and vessel should take place ; upon the same general principle, the veins also anastomose, although perhaps not so frequently, and this difference majr be because : they have in some degree a propelling power applied to their contents, ; namely, the action of the heart. The arteries having a very strong propelling power applied to their contents, it was in them not necessary as a general principle; but where they arc placed in similar circum- stances we find them similar in this respect. Although the anastomosing of vessels is upon a general principle very i proper, yet in many cases it would appear to be very improper, as in : the following parts. The arteries do not anastomose in the kidneys. This cannot arise simply from there being no occasion for it, on account of there being no lateral mechanical obstruction : since, from the same mode of reasoning, the veins should not anastomose, which they do very freely. This want of anastomosis in the arteries, therefore, answers some purpose in the ceconomy of the part. In the liver, the branches of the vena port® do not anastomose, although the arteries do in their smaller branches : we may therefore suppose some particular purpose answered besides free communication ; and I believe the arteries do not anastomose in the substance of the brain, which makes the brain appear less vascular than it really is. We may observe, perhaps, as a general principle, that arteries near to their destination, where they are to per- form their particular functions, do not anastomose. Thus the artery of the kidneys, the vena port®*, the arteries in the substance of the brain, do not anastomose ; nor do the arteries on the villous coat of the intes- ’ tines. * This vessel should be considered as an artery. VOL. III. l*210 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. If it be questioned whether anastomoses are a means of retarding or accelerating the circulation, I should answer that they appear to me to retard the blood’s motion", although we find vessels anastomosing as freely with one another at the greatest distance from the heart as near to it; but at the same time we may observe, that where we should suppose it was necessary for the circulation to be brisk we find no ana- stomoses in the arteries, as in the lungs, the kidneys, and I believe hardly in the liver, except on the peritoneal coat, whose arteries are continu- ations of the hepatic artery. I believe that the anastomosing of vessels increases their volume on the whole, and therefore allows a greater quantity of blood to be in them than if they did not. That kind of net-work too which they make increases the magnitude of the vascular system ; for to answer this pur- pose they take lateral and circular courses, which give them greater length than if they had simply passed between origin and destination in straight lines. The better to ascertain the velocityb of the blood in the arteries at the different distances from the heart, it will be necessary to know whethel an artery be a cylinder or a cone; and, when it divides into any number ' of branches, whether the whole of these taken together be less, equal, or greater than the vessel or vessels from which they arose ; and therefore whether they hold less, the same, or more blood. It may be observed that arteries keep a pretty exact proportion with each other, the branches with the trunk, &c., through the whole system; and therefore, what- ever may be their shape, they preserve it pretty regular: viz. if they are cylindrical, they are so regularly; if conical, the same. I should suspect, however, that the anastomosing of the arteries, in some degree, ; interferes with this regularity; but it is probable that the ultimate ; branches may come back again and correspond with the original trunk. To ascertain this, it is necessary to make choice of arteries which for some length either send off" no branches, or at least such as are very “ [There can, I think, be no doubt that anastomoses retard the circulation, on the same principle as the current is retarded in passing from a smaller into a larger tube; also by opposing currents. See note on capillaries.] b [Dr. Young estimated the mean velocity of the blood in the aorta at 8 inches per l second; but less in the smaller vessels, in proportion to the gradually increasing area of the vascular cone (Med. Lit., p. 609, and note, p. 38.). The velocity, however, will , necessarily differ in different vessels, according to the obstruction which it meets with, I although this is scarcely at all found to affect the arterial tension, which, according to 1 the experiments of Poiseuille, is almost exactly the same in all parts of the body. The J ventricles are estimated to throw out about one ounce and a half to two ounces at every j contraction, and the whole blood to perform about twenty complete revolutions in every ' hour.]OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. P 2 21 l : small when compared with the trunk : for it is impossible to measure with i any, degree of accuracy the size of branches, and then calculate their i different capacity, in comparison with that of the trunk from whence they are derived; and I think it is reasonable to suppose that, whether an ar- ; tery divides or not, the size must be the same in both, for it is neces- sary that the ultimate effect should be the same. The arteries which are best adapted for this experiment are those of :the placenta and of the testicles, particularly in the bull, 'lhe carotid : arteries in some animals are tolerably well formed for experiments of t this kind; for though these do not give us the exact proportions which • the one end bears to another, yet they plainly demonstrate which end is the largest. The arteries of the placenta evidently increase in size the nearer they a approach to the placenta; and this so very considerably as to require no experiment unless it be intended to ascertain the difference cor- rectly. In the spermatic artery of the bull it is equally evident; but as these arteries are much longer than the distance between their origin and the parts which they are to supply, it may be supposed that this increase is peculiar to them, in order to answer some particular pur- pose. But the carotid arteries in some animals afford sufficient proof !that the arteries in common become larger as they pass on and ramify; •for the carotids may be reckoned ramifying arteries, as they send off branches. The carotid artery of the camel among quadrupeds, and of the swan among birds, are very proper arteries for such experiments. To be as accurate as possible, I injected the arteries of two camels ; and the arteries of a swan ; and, that one end might not be more dis- tended than the other, the artery was well warmed and placed in a 1 perfectly horizontal position. The pipe was fixed into the lower end*, : and the injection made so warm as to keep fluid some time after having been injected : in this position it was allowed to cool. I made sections from each end; and, that they might be perfectly equal, I took a hard piece of wood, an inch thick, and bored a hole through it of the size of the artery, so as to contain a section exactly of that length, having a moveable button fixed at one end, which could be turned upon the hole, or off, at discretion. The artery being introduced through the hole, a projecting part was cut through by a thin knife, in order that the artery might be divided at right angles to itself. After doing this, the artery was withdrawn, and the button was then turned upon the hole, so as • The fixing the pipe into the lower end was rather in favour of increasing the size of this end.OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 212 to stop that end, and the cut end of the artery introduced to the hot- tom or button ; this piece so inclosed was separated in the same manner. Having taken a piece of the carotid artery from each end, which were of course exactly of equal lengths, I weighed them, and found that the section of the upper end was one grain and a half heavier than that of the lower. The carotid artery of another camel, measuring three feet and a half in length, was found to send off forty-four small branches, about the size of the human intercostal arteries, with one as large as the ulnar. Of this artery' a transverse section, of one inch in length, being taken from each end and weighed, that from the lower end was found to weigh two scruples sixteen grains and a half, while that from the upper end weighed only two scruples fourteen grains and a half. In similar sec- tions of the opposite carotid, which sent off forty-seven branches, the difference in weight between the upper and lower section was five grains. Similar sections from carotid arteries of a swan being weighed, the lower sections were found to be three grains and a half heavier than the upper: the lower section weighing thirteen grains and a half. Had the lateral branches been preserved an inch long, being the length of the sections of the trunk, I believe each might have weighed above a grain ; and, in that case, the forty-four would have been nearly equal in weight to the trunk. Should this be true, the arteries increase very considerably, not only in their ramifications but in their trunks. I imagine if the carotid artery in the camel did not send off anyr branch in its course, it would increase in size, nearly in the same proportion with the umbilical artery, or the spermatic in the bull. It is to be observed that as arteries divide they increase in size much faster than if they did not. For instance, if a section of an arteiy two inches long is equally divided into two, the section that is the further from the heart shall be heavier than the other, perhaps by one grain; but if the most distant section had divided into two branches, the two, taken together, would have been a grain and a half heavier; if three branches, two grains heavier, &c. The increase of size in the arteries as they ramify is an effect of the numerous ramifications1. From what has been already said it must appear that arteries form a cone, whose apex is at the heart; and, if this be the case in the adult, we shall find that it must be more so in the young subject, and will every day become less as the child increases in growth. 1 [A pari of this increase in weight must be laid to the account of the increased su- perficies of the coats of the vessels. The solid contents only should have been weighed in order to have rendered these experiments perfectly accurate.]OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 2 1 3 The capillary arteries in the foetus are probably as numerous as in an adult; perhaps more so, for we know that there is the same number of principal arteries in each; as far as we can trace them, they seem ' to send off the same number of smaller branches; and in many parts we find a great many more small vessels in the foetus than in the adult. In the eye, the membrane of the ear, &c., in all growing parts, such as ccallus, granulations, &c., we find a great many more vessels than in si- i milar-grown parts, or in the same parts when completely formed; not iin proportion to the size of the part, but more in number. These are •strong proofs that many arteries are obliterated in the adult. How much more vascular, therefore, must a child be than an adult, in pro- ; portion to its size, when in a much smaller compass a greater number of arteries are accumulated®! From this it would appear that the only great change in the vascular • system is elongation [and enlargement] of the vessels: for, as we find very little difference between the blood of a foetus and of an adult, it is natural to infer that the smallest vessels are nearly of the same size in both; for the termination of the arteries, or what may be called the operative part of the arterial system, being intended to perform the ! same functions in the foetus as in the adult, it is reasonable to suppose ' that the increase is in the length [and diameter] of the whole vascular ■ system ; and that the increase in the size of the trunks is in a uniform I gradation from the capillaries towards the heart, but never [in their aggregate capacity] becoming equal to the capillaries. If the preceding account be true or nearly so, we see that there must be a great proportional difference between the size of the two extremes of the arteries in the young subject and the adult. We may venture i to say that the aorta in the child is not one fourth of the size of that vessel in the adult, and that the capillaries are rather larger than those in the adult, which would of itself make the whole capillaries in the foetus more than four times the size of the aorta in the same ; and as these arteries are very short, the cone of course increases very fast. In the foetus in utero we are to consider that the aorta, at the begin- ning from the ventricle, is larger than in the adult, in proportion to the quantity of blood that passes through the foramen ovale : and beyond the entrance of the canalis arteriosus the aorta is increased in proportion to the size of the canalis arteriosus ; and it is at this part its size is to be [It should not be forgotten, however, that there are other parts which become de- veloped and require a large supply of blood in the adult. We may instance the mus- cular system, which can scarcely be supposed actually to contain an equal number of capillary vessels in the infant as in the adult. Some organs also, as the genital, must surely have a larger supply of vessels in the adult than in the infant.]OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 214 estimated. This probably makes the aorta, beyond the entrance of the canalis arteriosus, twice as large as in the adult in proportion to their size; but the drawback upon this, from the body, is the placenta; for the placenta is to be considered as part of the body, disposing of the blood that afterwards circulates through the lungs : however, when it is separated, it may take away with it nearly its own proportion of blood, although I rather suspect it does not. But I do not suppose it is equal to the quantity passing through the foramen ovale and canalis arteri- osus ; and if so, then the body has the overplus. The aorta of a fetus is, therefore, not only larger than that of an adult, but larger than in that proportion which the size of the fetus bears to the size of the placenta. Or it may be put in this view: that, besides the difference in the size of the aorta in a young subject (as be- fore observed) and in an adult, the size of the aorta in the fetus is still larger, viz. more than in that proportion which the circulation in the lungs of the adult bears to the circulation in the lungs of the fetus, which is probably much more than that of the placenta*. Experiment on the Arteries of a Child.—I injected the descending aorta of a fetus, just above the diaphragm, in the same manner as 1 did the carotids in the camel and swan, by which means I injected the mesenteric artery, the subject of experiment. This artery has a trunk, which at first does not put off branches, and then sends oft' several, which may be all called so many trunks. These again do not im- mediately give off branches, and are therefore measurable with the trunk from which they arise. 1 first made a section of the trunk of the mesenteric artery, near its root, before it sends off' any considerable branches, one third of an inch in length ; and then another section of the same artery, having the same length, close to the origin of the first branch : all the branches arising from it being preserved of the same length with the trunk itself. When they were weighed in opposition to each other, the trunk without the branches was found to weigh thirteen grains and a half; while that with the branches weighed eighteen grains, that is, four grains and a half more than the trunk. A section of the aorta, near half an inch long, being made just above the origin of the inferior mesenteric artery, was weighed against a section of the same length, including the inferior * [I apprehend the author's meaning to he simply that the excess of the adult pul- monary circulation over the fatal (which excess must previously have passed through the uorta) is more than equal to what formerly went to supply the placcnt*. Conse- quently the body must have had the overplus.]215 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. : mesenteric, likewise of tlie same length; the last section weighed one [grain more than the other, the highest amounting to six grains, the Howest to seven. A section of the lower end of the aorta, including a :portion of the two iliacs, was weighed against a section of the two :iliacs, which was equal in length, and these were found to weigh rather ^heavier. By the above is confirmed what I formerly asserted, that an artery not giving off" branches does not increase so fast as another which does iif we include all the branches. From all that has been said it appears that there must be a much .greater quantity of blood in a feetus than an adult in proportion to their difference of size; and that the heart must be larger and stronger, in ^proportion, to move this blood, which will probably still circulate in the - smaller vessels with less velocity. The whole of these differences between the foetus and the adul t must be intended for the purposes of growth: and indeed we may discern the necessity of it; for if a child was not more vascular in proportion • to its size than the adult, its growth, we might conceive, would only be : in proportion to the number of its vessels, which would be twelve times Hess than they are, for a new-born child is only one twelfth in size to ! tliat of an adult. A child would, therefore, grow faster and faster every ’year, for instance, in proportion to its size, as the vessels would become i numerous in that proportion. But this is not really the case, for chil- dren grow less and less every year in proportion to their size, only adding their first year’s growth to themselves every succeeding year; though, perhaps, not quite so much, as the vessels rather decrease in number. That this is the case may be proved by taking the eye for an ex- ample, which grows more the first year .after conception than it does any year afterwards; so that the disproportion between the vessels of this part, in those two states, is particularly great. The growth of an animal is, therefore, in proportion to the number of its capillary vessels. As the body grows, the vessels elongate to keep pace with that growth, the capillary vessels at last come to a stand, and the arterial system is daily losing ground. The heart grows in proportion to the increased length of arteries, that it may be able to throw the blood through the whole, but not in proportion to the size of the whole body, because the vessels do not increase in number or size in proportion to the size of the body. But as the heart increases only in proportion to the size of the whole vas- cular system, while the body increases faster and more, the heart can- not be in proportion to the size of the whole body, hence its action must in time lose the power of elongating the body; and become merely216 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. sufficient to nourish what is already formed. Perhaps it does not even continue to do so much ; for it is not impossible that the body may begin to decline from the moment it ceases to grow, the heart having pushed the growth of the body even beyond its own powers to preserve it in that state. §. 9. Of the Action of the Arteries, and the Velocity of the Blood’s Motion. Arteries, during their diastole, which arises from an increased quan- tity of blood being thrown into them, increase much more in length than width, being thrown into a serpentine course ; therefore, instead of the term diastole, it should rather be called the elongated state. It is, however, the increased diameter that becomes sensible to the touch2. " [The question of the immediate cause of the impression of the pulse has been a subject of considerable dispute, respecting which modern physiologists are by no means perfectly agreed, particularly as to the degree which the vessel enlarges or lengthens at each systole of the heart. The diametrical enlargement of the artery was altogether denied by Parry, Laennec, and Bichat j but not apparently with good reason, for it is very visible in the immediate vicinity of the heart in several reptiles. Haller observed it in the chick, Majcndie and Hastings in the thoracic aorta of the horse, and Meckel and Tiedemann in the smaller arteries. The reason why it is not generally more visible appears to me to be this. The carotid artery of an animal, measuring or ■ffo, of an inch in diameter, being exposed for six inches, the elongation which this length of vessel is supposed to undergo at each contraction of the ventricle is estimated at -J, > or xrnr> °* an *>ich; so that, supposing the diametrical enlargement to take place only in the same proportion, it wrould not amount to more than y-fo part of an inch, which it would be difficult under any circumstances to see, and still more difficult in a unilateral aspect of the vessel. When, however, we further reflect that the time required for the transmission of a wave of blood from the heart to the most remote part of the body does not exceed a half second, and then calculate the extreme velocity with which this wave passes over a few inches of vessel, we shall not be surprised at not being able to perceive it. Besides, the mere fact of exposing a vessel is sufficient of itself to induce the contraction of its coats, so as completely to obliterate the tube ; from all which cir- cumstances I conclude that very little reliance can be placed On these kinds of obser- vations. The experiments of Poiseuille, which seemed to evince that an actual enlarge- ment took place, arc not perfectly conclusive. The elongation of an artery is barely appreciable in an undisturbed state of the circulation, but may be rendered distinctly visible by holding the nostrils of an ass (whose carotids have previously been exposed) until the respiration becomes laborious. The artery may now be observed to leap from its bed, and to become elongated and tortuous at each stroke of the ventricle; effects which may be imitated in the dead body, or on dead tubes, by forcible injections, and which are also observed to occur naturally in many parts subject to violent periodical excitements, as the testicle and uterus. It has been observed, however, that a tangible shock may be conveyed through a fluidOF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 217 This probably arises from the muscular coat opposing the dilatation of the arteries, while it cannot the lengthening. The dilatation of the ar- tery producing the stroke is either felt by the finger or may be seen, when superficial; but were we to judge of the real increase of the ar- tery by this we should deceive ourselves, for when covered by the inte- guments the apparent effect is much greater than it really is in the artery itself: for in laying such an artery bare, the nearer we come to it the less visible is its pulsation, and when laid bare its motion is hardly to be either felt or seen. The more an artery is covered, especially with solid bodies, the more is the pulsation to be felt or seen; thus tumours over large arteries have a considerable motion given to them, and have often been supposed to be aneurisms. The knowledge of this fact, arising more from experi- ment than common observation in the living body, may be a sufficient reason for keeping to the old expression, dilatation. This circumstance, which has been but little taken notice of, produces an effect which has also been unobserved. If the arteries had been dilated by the force of the blood’s motion, as has been supposed, its motion should be much less retarded than it is ; for even supposing that the increased area of the artery is the same when elongated as if dilated, and therefore holds an equal quantity to a dilated one, it must appear evident that the blood will not arrive so quickly at the opposite enda. much in the same manner as sound, so that we may discover the working of a water- pump at u great distance merely through the pipes, whether iron or leathern, by which it is connected. Others have ascribed the pulse to the forward rush, without tumefaction, which takes place when an additional quantity of blood is injected into elastic vessels. It may be observed, however, that any elastic vessel, as, for instance, au intestine, perfectly full of fluid is capable, on being gently tapped with the finger, of communicating a rapid and distinct pulse to a great distance, although no forward rush can take place, but only a gentle undulation. Dr. Parry, however, has justly observed, that the impression of the pulse may be rendered much more obvious by slightly pressing on the artery thus 8 ^ 0, so as to indent it, by which means the finger becomes directly opposed to the current of blood. We occasionally hear of instances in which the pulse is said to vary, as well in its rhythm as in the number of its beats, in different parts of the body ; but probably all such cases are resolvable into some irregularity of the heart’s action: as when, for in- stance, it is partly intermittent, so as to give first a perfect and then an imperfect stroke —the perfect stroke only being sufficient to communicate the pulse to the extreme parts, although both may have this effect on those which are in the immediate vicinity of the heart. It is difficult, if not impossible, to assign specific causes for the numerous vari- ations of the pulse which take place in disease. The sphygmometer, lately invented by M. Herisson, is perfectly inefficient, and is not deserving of the least confidence.] * [Sir C. Bell, in his “Essay on the Forces which circulate the Jflood," has endeavoured, by an ingenious train of reasoning, to prove the reverse of this position ; for, observingOF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 218 The continual repetition of the cause of this serpentine course obliges the arteries in many places to retain this state, especially in parts that do not yield readily, as the skull, upon which the temporal artery is placed; and this retention of the serpentine course is still more obvious in those arteries which have lost a good deal of their elasticity. However, this increase8 of the artery is so manifest as to be felt or seen, and pro- duces what is called the pulse, which must gradually diminish in propor- tion as the arteries divide into smaller branches; for a small artery hav- ing a proportional pulse, and the arterial system increasing as it goes along, both of which causes diminish the velocity of the blood, and render the diastole less and its motions more uniform. From the description I have given of the heart with its action, and the parts of which an artery is composed, it must appear that an artery is at all times full of blood, which is moving on with more or less velocity; because it receives it from the heart at interrupted periods, and when a given quantity is thrown in at one end, this will make a considerable difference between this part and the other, which part will of course be more upon the stretch ; for although the artery dilates, yet as it is from the impulse of the blood, the blood must move much faster on in the diastole of the artery than its systole. This part of the artery w ill contract, and throw the blood into the remaining part; but not w'ith the same force with which it wras received; but still the artery beyond will receive it faster than it wTill give it. By these means, all the parts that most organs which perform or are liable to be called upon suddenly to perform any extraordinary degree of action, as the uterus, brain, testicles, &c., are provided with highly tortuous vessels, he argues that this arrangement must be designed to give greater power to the local circulation, so as to increase the velocity of the blood in those parts, as occasion may require, without necessarily engaging the whole vascular system in this act; and this is supposed to be accomplished by the increased muscular superficies giving greater strength to the tortuous artery. We cannot, however, argue from final causes in such cases as this; neither can we at present, with any degree of precision, say how far the muscularity of the arteries is actually concerned in carrying on the ordinary circulation. We do, however, know, on physical principles, that the multiplication of angles, and the increased superficies of a tortuous vessel, must have the effect of retard- ing the current which passes through it; while, on the other hand, we know that the mere force of impulsion from behind is sufficient to produce a tortuosity of the vessel, as well of the arteries and veins as of inert tubes; but as it is not pretended that the veins assist the circulation by their muscularity, the tortuosity in them can neither arise from the cause assigned, nor be attended with the effect supposed. It is probable, therefore, that the tortuosity is produced by the same cause in both orders of vessels, and that it is attended with the same effect.] • [Does the author mean by “this increase,” the elongation or the diametrical en- largement of the artery ? The preceding part of the paragraph would seem to point to the former meaning; but in the first paragraph of this section he says, “ It is the increased diameter which becomes sensible to the touch.”]OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 219 of the artery are brought to a more equal state ; for this additional quan- tity of blood that was at first in one part only, is in some degree equally diffused through the whole arterial system ; by which means, too, it is be- coming proportionably slower in its motion: but all these circumstances will vary according as the arterial system consists of cylinders or cones ; and if of cones, then according to the extremity ■which is the base ; all of which may be conjectured, but cannot be exactly estimated. Yet that the force of the heart might not be lost, the elasticity of the great ar- tery, over the smaller, is happily applied, because it propels the blood more forcibly on, between the strokes of the heart; for although we are to suppose that the heart, which was capable of distending a part, so as to make it re-act, and send the blood through any given length, was also capable of sending it through that length at once, yet we must see, that by an elastic power being applied at one end, while this is gra- dually lost towards the other, the elastic part acts with a superior force over the other, in the proportion as the other has less elasticity. This other being also less upon the stretch, is overcome by that wThich is more so, which is always the end next to the heart; for the muscular part relaxes, requiring hardly any force to distend it; and indeed, as the muscular power has contracted the artery within its middle or stationary state, and this more and more as we get into smaller vessels, the mus- cular coat is at first stretched by the recovery of the elastic power; so that the blood passes into the smaller branches with much less resis- tance than it would have done if the vessels had been elastic in propor- tion to their size. These proportions, however, in the blood’s motion, arising from the elastic power of the arteries, will not be the same in the foetus and adult, and will be still more different in the aged subject; for in this last the elastic power of the artery is diminishing as well as the muscular, the coats becoming more rigid; besides which, the vessels vary from a conical shape (whose apex is at the heart and basis at their extremities) towards a cylinder; and this change is also increased by the loss of many of the smaller vessels; so that as we grow up, the base of the cone is gradually diminished from two causes. The elastic power will allow of a quantity of blood in the animal be- yond the natural state of the artery, and the muscular power will allow of a smaller, without the animal being affected, although the muscular alone would have answered both these purposes. Arteries, then, are the conductors and disposers of the blood: as conductors they are, in every animal above fish, both passive and active; passive, in admitting of the propelling power of the heart; and active, in continuing that power to the extreme part. Besides these reasons for a difference in the velocities of the blood220 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. at different distances from the heart, I conceive there is a material differ- ence between the velocities of the blood in those vessels which carry red blood, and those which carry only the coagulable lymph and the serum ; for where the red blood goes, there is a quicker return than where there is only the coagulable lymph and serum. For this there are two reasons, viz. that where the red blood passes, it is commonly nearer to the heart, while the other parts go to a greater distance: but besides this, the vessels which carry the red blood are larger, and, I believe, ramify more quickly ; the velocity, therefore, of the blood is greater in them. Where the lymph and serum pass only, the velocity of the blood is languid, and it appears merely to carry nourishment, such as in tendons, liga- ments, etc. So far we are to consider the above as a general principle arising out of the construction of a blood-vessel; but there are secondary or col- lateral circumstances acting, so as to accelerate or retard the blood's motion. Since the solids and fluids have a mutual dependence on each other, and since the solids answer various purposes, for which quantity, velo- city, etc. are peculiarly necessary, we find that this intercourse between the two is with great exactness kept up. I have already observed that the angles at which the branches of an artery arise, either retard or al- low of a freer motion in the blood; but Nature appears to have taken still more care in retarding the blood’s motion where velocity might do mischief. She seems also to have taken more care about the blood’s motion in some parts than in others; as, for example, in the brain, a part which probably cannot bear the same irregularity, in quantity or velocity of the blood, as many other parts of the body. I should sup- pose, that by sending four arteries to the brain, instead of one, or which would have been more regular, two, the force of the motion of the blood is broken, as well as by the winding course of the internal caro- tid arteries. The tortuosity of the vertebral arteries, likewise, are in- tended, we may suppose, to prevent a too great velocity of the blood, both because these arteries are longer than they need be, and the blood is hindered from moving in a straight line: but, besides the serpentine course of the arteries of the head, they pass through a bone (but princi- pally the carotids), where the bony canal is closely applied to the coats of the artery ; so that there can be no pulsation here, but a greater velocity of the blood in those parts, and probably less in the brain. This 1 should suppose retards also the motion of the blood in the brain, be- cause the blood, passing through a smaller place than common, must meet with a greater resistance, and therefore a smaller quantity must pass through this part in a given time, so that the pulsation of the arte-221 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. ries in the brain should be less than anywhere else ; for we may suppose that the motion is considerably lost by the blood coming into an elastic canal of the same diameter with that through which it passed before it came into the bony canal. If, then, this motion is lost, and the quan- tity of blood is really lessened in a given time, its motion must be more regular, and the pulsation less. In some animals the carotid artery is found to divide and subdivide, forming a plexus, and the branches unite again before it goes to the brain. This is called rete mirabile, and in animals which have it will certainly break the force of the blood’s motion; but since it is not uni- versal, some peculiar purpose must be answered by it. It is not in the horse and ass, for instance; but it is in the lion. Where the vessels anastomose, there is also a considerable retardation to the blood’s mo- tion, and they are found to anastomose a good deal on the pia mater before they enter the brain, but I believe not within its substance. §.10. Of Veins. Tire vessels * carrying the blood from any part of the body towards the heart are called the veins : they are more passive than the arteries, and seem to be, from their beginning to their termination in tire heart, little more than conductors of the blood to the heart, that it may receive its salutary influence from the lungs. However, this is not unversally the case, for the vena portae would seem to assume the office of an ar- tery in the liver, and therefore becomes an active part; and we have many veins formed into plexuses, so as to answer some purpose, not at all subservient to the circulation; but still, in this respect, they are not to be reckoned active. They differ from the arteries in many of their properties, although in some they are very similar. They do not compose so uniform or regular a system of vessels as the arteries, either in their form or use, being subject to considerable variety in their uses (which are, however, passive, not active), and often an- swering, from their construction, collateral purposes. The coats of the veins, upon the whole, are not so thick as those of the arteries, but differ materially in different situations of the body. 'Tlius, they become thinner and thinner, in proportion to their size, the nearer to the heart; however, this is not equally so through the whole venal system, but principally in the depending veins, as those of the ex- * A vein is commonly a canal, especially that which carries red blood; but in many animals it is entirely cellular; yet I use the word as a general term when applied to the blood.OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 222 tremities, more especially the lower in man; and still more so, the nearer to the extreme parts. In such parts it is often difficult to di- stinguish the vein from the artery; yet this is not to be remarked in the veins of ascending parts, or those coming from the head, or such as are horizontal, especially in the human subject; and in animals which have a large portion of their body horizontal, there is little difference in the coats of such veins at different distances from the heart. I suspect the muscular powers are much greater in what may be cttlled ascending veins, than either descending or horizontal; and I believe, in general, it is very considerable, for if we look at the back of our hand, and compare their size in a warm day or before a fire, and in a cold day, they hardly appear to be the same veins. They are not so strong in their coats as the arteries, and their strength is in an inverse proportion to their size in the extremities, and the reason is very obvious. They are more dense in their coats than the arteries, yet in the dead body they seem to admit the transudation of the blood; for when there is the least degree of putrefaction we can trace the veins with the eye on the skin, as if very large, the cellular membrane and the skin being tinged for some way on each side of the vein. In the liver we find injections escaping the vena cava hepatica, and getting into its substance in a peculiar manner. They have nearly the same elasticity with the arteries; they are si- milar to the arteries in their structure, being composed of an elastic and muscular substancea, the elastic in some degree preserving a middle state, although not so perfectly as in the arteries. The muscular power adapts the veins to the various circumstances which require the area to be within the middle state, and assists the blood in its motion towards the heart. The coats of the veins themselves are vascular, although not very » [The veins are less clastic, hut much more extensible than the arteries; and in pro- portion to their substance, are capable of sustaining a much heavier weight without breaking. The internal coat of veins, besides being much thinner, more delicate, and less fragile than that of the arteries, is remarkably distinguished from the latter, by never becoming the seat of ossifications, which, in the arteries, take place so generally in rather advanced life as almost to be considered the normal state. It is remarkable that this disposition to ossification is, as Bichat remarked, strictly confined to the arterial portion of the system of red blood, commencing from the left auriculo-ventricular open- ing, through all the ramifications of the aorta; for the left auricle, and also the pulmo- nary veins, although they carry red blood, are rarely, if ever, affected in this manner. Thejfirous coat of veins is principally seen in the depending and superficial veins of the body ; but in general it is very obscurely developed, and in some veins cannot be said to exist. The fibres, according to Meckel, invariably run longitudinally, and •om this circumstance are strikingly contradistinguished from those of the arteries.]OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 223 much so. The arteries arise from the nearest small ramifying arteries, and the corresponding veins do not terminate in the cavity of the vein to which they belong, but pass off from the body of the vein, and join some others from different parts, and at last terminate in the common trunk, some way higher. On laying open the jugular vein of a dog, and closing up the wound for some hours, and then opening it, I ob- served the vessels of this part very distinctly. They were becoming inflamed, therefore turgid, and I could easily distinguish between the arteries and veins by the colour of the blood in them. Veins have interruptions in their cavities, called valves. They are thin inelastic membranes, of an exact semilunar form, their unattached edge being cut off straight, not curved, as in those of the arteries ; and this i$ because there are only two of them whose semicircumference adheres to the sides of the vein. They are not placed in a transverse direction, so as to cut the axis of the vein perpendicularly, but obliquely, as the valves at the beginning of the arteries, making a pouch whose mouth is turned towards the heart. They are attached in pairs, the two making two pouches, whose edges come in contact. In the larger veins of many animals, as the jugular veins of a horse, &c., there are often three valves, as at the beginning of the aorta, but not so com- pletely formed. These valves, as it were, cut the veins into two at this part. These two valves are not always of equal size. At this part there are always two swellings in this form, but I believe more in the adult than in the young subject. They are not formed from a doubling of the internal coat, as has been imagined, for the internal coat is elastic, but the valves are rather of a tendinous nature; from this cir- cumstance, together with their shape and their mode of attachment to the sides of the vein, they always do their office whenever the vein is full, in the same manner as the valves of the arteries. The valves of the veins are chiefly in the extremities, jugular veins, and the veins on the exterior parts of the head, but never in the veins of the brain, heart, lungs, intestines, liver, spleen, nor kidneys. Where a smaller vein opens into a larger there is often a valvular structure at the acute angles, but this is not constant1. a [Single valves are often found to occur in veins of not more than a line in diame- ter, and occasionally also in the larger trunks; but sometimes three, four, or even five valves have been discovered where two only ordinarily exist. The valves are composed of a fibrous substance, lined by the internal membrane of the veins. Valves very rarely occur in anastomosing or azygos vessels, for obvious reasons. Generally speaking, the number of valves is increased in the same ratio as the size of the vessels is diminished; but this extends only to a certain point, for after that the inverse ratio seems to be followed, so that in the smallest veins the valves disappear altogether. Valves are uniformly most numerous in depending and superficial parts,224 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. The veins, taken altogether, are much larger than the arteries3; but in the extremities the veins that attend an artery are sometimes less. Nevertheless, there are commonly two of them; but, besides these, there are superficial ones, which are much larger than those deeply seated. The best way, however, of judging is by comparing them with the corresponding arteries where there are no supernumerary veins, as in the intestines, kidneys, lungs, brain, &c. where we find that they are larger than the arteries : and this too where a considerable waste has taken place of the arterial blood in the different secretions. From this circumstance the blood’s motion in them is slower, and they allow a greater quantity to be in the body at all times. There is a greater number of trunks of veins in the body than of ar- teries, at least visible veins, for wherever there is an artery in common there is a vein, and in many places two, one on each side, which some- times makes a kind of plexus round it; besides, there are many veins where there are no corresponding arteries, as on the surface of the body; for in the extremities many of the larger veins pass superficially, but those become fewer and fewer towards the trunk of the body. They are numerous also in the neck of the human subject; but in some of the viscera, as the intestines, the veins and arteries correspond in num- ber very exactly. Dr. Hides, however, in his Statics, says that he has seen a number of arteries throw their blood into one vein; which, if true, shows that there are more small arteries than veins. Although veins generally attend the arteries, there are some excep- tions, even in corresponding veins, as in the pia mater; but they can- not all attend the arteries, there being more superficial veins on the extremities and neck, but the large trunks do. The supernumerary veins are not so regular as those that attend the arteries, being hardly alike in two people. because in these parts the auxiliary aid of the valves is most needed lo assist in carrying on the circulation of the blood. The following veins, in addition to those enumerated in the text, possess no valves, viz. the umbilical, vena cava inferior, vertebral, and veins of the spinal marrow. The uterine veins and also the spermatic veins in the fe- male are not generally provided with valves, although they occasionally exist. There is a remarkable deviation in the structure of the veins of the brain, adapted to the peculiar circumstances of that organ : for, in the first place, the sinuses are ren- dered incompressible, to guard against their being collapsed by any sudden increase of the arterial tension, which the inextensibility of the cranium would necessarily deter- mine to these vessels, so as to compress their sides together; while, in the second place, this provision is rendered still more perfect, by the tributary veins of the pia mater being made to open into the sinuses in an oblique direction, opposite to the current of blood, so as effectually to oppose any reflux determination, upon the circulation being impeded.] 3 [This, however, is more apparent than real in the dead body, in consequence of the continued action of the capillaries driving the blood into the dilatable veins.]OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 225 The veins may be said, upon the whole, to accompany the arteries, : and it is most reasonable that this should be the case; since both per- form the same office of conducting the blood, the same course must . answer equally in both. This, however, is not universally the case, • some veins being intended for particular purposes, as the vena porta:; ■ some forming bodies, as the penis, plexus retiformisa, and others varying ! their course for convenience, as in the brain. The veins of this viscus • take in general a very different course from the arteries; but this is prin- (cipally in the larger veins of the brain, for the smaller, which are in the •substance, accompany the arteries. The intention of this seems to be (that the largest veins, called the sinuses, should be so formed as not to ibe compressible, probably that there should be as little chance as pos- • sible of any stoppage to the circulation of the blood in this part. But in some parts of animals they vary their course from the arteries, where we do not so well see the intention, because it is not the case in others. Thus the veins in the kidneys of the cat kind and hyaena have the veins : in part passing along the surface in the external membrane, like the si* ■ nuses in the brain. Veins seldom or ever take a serpentine course, be- cause a retardment in the blood’s motion in them answers no particular j purpose in the (Economy of the parts, and the more readily the blood gets to the heart the better. However, the plexuses, although not intended tto retard the motion of the blood, answer other purposes not immedi- ately connected with the circulation. Veins upon the whole anastomose more frequently than the arteries, especially by their larger trunks, and more particularly in the extremi- ties ; for we often see a canal of communication going between two trunks, and one trunk shall divide into two and then unite again. Where the veins and the arteries correspond, their anastomoses are nearly the same. I believe they do not anastomose in the lungs or liver ; however, the veins corresponding to the arteries do not always follow this rule ; for the veins in the spleen and kidneys anastomose in very large trunks, while the arteries do not at all. This anastomosing of the larger veins more frequently is because a vein is easily compressed and the blood has a ready passage into another; besides, the valves ren - der it more necessary, for when the blood has got past a valve it cannot take a retrograde course, but may take a lateral: and indeed it is prin- * [See Vol. I. p. 251, note. There can scarcely be any doubt that all the pheno- mena exhibited by the erectile tissues are due to the extreme extensibility of the venous tunics.] VOL. ill. QOF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 226 cipally in those veins which have valves that we find those large anasto- mosing branches; by this means the blood gets freely to the heart. As the area of all the veins is larger than that of the arteries, the blood will move more slowly through them; and this is evident from every observation that can be made. It may be observed in the large superficial veins in the extremities of the living body, and the difference of velocity in the blood flowing from a vein and artery in an operation is very great. The blood, however, moves with a good deal of velocity in a vein, for if we stop the circulation in the beginning of any of the superficial veins of an extremity, and empty the vein above, immediately upon removing the finger the blood will move along the vein faster than the eye can follow it: yet its motion is so slow as to allow the blood to lose its scarlet colour, and acquire the modena red ; and this more so as it passes on to the heart. The blood moves more slowly in tbe veins than in the arteries, that it may come into the right auricle more slowly; for if the two venae cavae were of the same size with the aorta, the blood would have the same velocity in them; which the auricle, as it is now constructed, could not have borne: but it may be probable, that the blood is assisted in its passage into the auricle by a kind of vacuum being produced by the decrease of the size of the ventricles in their contraction. From the number of anastomosing branches, especially by larger trunks, from tbe blood being liable to temporary obstructions in many places, and also moving with little force, its course becomes often very irregular and undetermined, much more so than in the arteries. The first cause of the blood’s motion in a vein of a quadruped is the force of the heart, for I think we must suppose that the heart can and does carry on simple circulation; because, in paralytic limbs, where vo- luntary muscular action is totally lost, and where, I conceive, the in- voluntary is very weak, the circulation is continued, although, I believe, with much less velocity than in perfect and sound parts: besides, we have observed, that tbe arteries continue the motion of the blood in them where the heart cither fails to do it, or where an increased motion j may be wanted. The arteries, therefore, will assist the heart in pro- polling the blood through the veins ; however, it is assisted by collateral , causes. The second cause is their muscular contraction, which most probably is in the direction of the blood's motion, assisted by lateral pressure of all kinds; because the valves will favour this course wherever j they are. However, as the valves are not universal, the motion of the ^ blood in some veins must be carried on without them, and therefore they are not absolutely necessary.227 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. Since we see the veins assuming the office of arteries in the liver of quadrupeds, birds, amphibia, and fish, and much more so in many of the inferior orders of animals, the motion of whose blood is first derived from the heart, we must suppose that veins have considerable power in carrying on the circulation ; but the resistance being continually re- moved at their termination into the heart, will direct and assist the blood’s motion in that direction, more especially when influenced by the action of the vessels themselves, or any lateral pressure. In those veins which are accompanied by the arteries, the pulsation of the artery assists in propelling the blood towards the heart, more especially where there are two or more attending an artery. When treating of the motion of the blood in the arteries, I observed that its motion was not in a uniform stream, but interrupted, which arose from the heart’s action; but as it receded from that viscus, that its motion gradually became more uniform, till at last it was nearly a continued stream. However it is not certain but an alternate accele- rated motion is continued into the veins immediately from the heart, although it may not be an easy undertaking to ascertain this; for simply observing an accelerated motion in the blood of the veins, more especially the small ones, does not prove that this was an alternate increase im- mediately from the arteries. Every artery has a pulsation in itself, immediately from the heart; but a secondary vein, or one that is a third or fourth in order of size, cannot, because it has more than one cause acting upon it; for such vein is receiving the impulse of the heart at very different times, owing to the larger trunk receiving blood by a number of smaller veins that come from a variety of parts : so that if the trunk was to receive it by starts from the smaller veins, it would only be a tremor or confused mo- tion. This is a reason why this cause could produce none in the se- condary veins'*. The fact is, however, that there is a pulsation in the veins, for when we bleed a patient in the hand or foot we evidently see * [The unintermittent continuity of the venous current arises solely from elasticity; for supposing the whole vascular system to consist of rigid tubes, the impulse would of course be instantaneous in every part of this system. It is not, therefore, the different lengths of the veins, but the great extensibility of these vessels which equalizes the current. This it is which gives to the veins the operation of an air-vessel {note, p. 170.) or compressed spring, the effect of which will be to transform the intermittent impulse of the heart into a continuous force. This may be proved by increasing the tension of the veins in a frog's leg, by partially retarding the circulation, when the pulsation im- mediately becomes visible in the small veins as well as arteries; although the reaction of the former soon equalizes the tension of the whole vessel, and thus prevents the pro- pagation of the impulse to the larger trunks. I think it probable that the pulsation which is sometimes perceived in veins of the Q 2OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 228 a strong jet, much more in some than in others, and much more here than in the bend of the arm. The query is, does this arise from the immediate stroke of the heart, or is it by the lateral pressure, occasioned by the swell of the arteries ? To ascertain this the better, it is neces- sary to observe several tilings : we may remark that the pulsation in the veins is more in some parts than in others; thus, I should suppose it was more in the veins of the kidney, spleen, lungs, and brain, especially the last, than in many other parts ; but this, from the lateral swell of the arteries, cannot, from the above observations, affect all parts alike, for the veins on the back of the hand being superficial, and not sur- rounded with vascular parts, could not be affected by arteries : but still it may arise from the lateral swell of the smaller arteries; and this ac- celeration, given to the blood’s motion in the smaller veins, is carried to those on the back of the hand. But I think I have seen the difference in the projection so great, that it hardly could arise from that cause alone; and indeed, if this was the only cause, we should have it in some degree in every vein, for every vein is so far surrounded as to be in some measure affected from the swell of the arteries of the part; but we cer- tainly do not perceive it in so great a degree in the bend of the arm. The larger veins near to the heart have a pulsation which arises from the contraction of the heart preventing the entrance of the blood at that time, and producing a stagnation. This I saw very evidently in a dog whose chest I opened, and pro- duced artificial breathing; but I could not say whether this arose from the contraction of the auricles, ventricles, or both -. but the vena cava superior has a contraction in itself, in both dog and cat, and probably in the human subject. Even breathing produces a stagnation near the thorax, for during inspiration the veins readily empty themselves, but in expiration there is a degree of stagnation. Coughing, sneezing, or straining in any way where the thoracic and abdominal muscles are concerned, produces this effect. I think it is probable, that where there is a universal action of the vascular system, the action of the tirteries and veins is alternate. That third or fourth class, as, for instance, in those of the arm, is due to a cause of this kind increasing the tension of the whole venous system, especially as a hard contracted pulse in the arteries is often associated with this appearance in the veins. In those cases where a pulsation is visible in the great veins, in the neighbourhood of the chest, it undoubt- edly depends on the reflux of the blood on each systole of the auricle, or of the ven- tricle, if there should happen to be at the same time any disease of the heart, as, for instance, hypertrophy, attended with imperfect construction of the right auriculo- vcntricular valves. The respiratory pulse is not synchronous with that of the arteries, and depends on too obvious a cause to require explanation.JOF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 229 when the arteries contract, as in many fevers, the veins rather dilate, more especially the larger®. • [I. order ft,. ft. ro.d.r nr.y p.rr.iv. « », ft. dito.n. retorion. io »hich ft. “circulation" may b« »i.».d, I .ball, very bri.dy advert to ft. (ore. which supposed to cooperate in this function. . . . 1 The heart is undoubtedly the main agent of the circulation in all warm-blooded i animals. According to Dr. Hales, the left ventricle ordinarily exerts a force of abou ifil-5 pounds, and propels the blood into the arteries with a force equivalent to about four pounds to each square inch of the arterial surface. The accuracy, however of these deductions has lately been called in question by M. Poiseuille, and apparen y twith good reason. (Journ. de Phys., par Majendie, ix. 351.) 2. The arteries were regarded by Hunter as a sort of supplementary heart, scarcely less instrumental in the propulsion of the blood than the heart itself; although s .probable that in this estimate he was as much mistaken on the one hand as Dr. Arnott lias lately been on the other in denying their agency altogether. (Elem. of Physics, 5 th edit., i. 555.) I shall not, however enter here into the controverted question respecting the muscularity of the arteries, which appears to me to be a dispute about words rather than facts, for that the arteries possess a power of varying their calibre, quite^indepen- dently of the force e tergo, is proved by the most indisputable facts (see p. 161 et seq.). r Admitting, therefore, the muscularity of the arteries as a tact, the question arises, in what : manner is the circulation affected by it? It is objected to the author s explanation of the :iaction of the arteries, 1st, that if the arteries were extensively elastic, the intermittent s stream in the arteries would soon be converted into a continuous one; 2nd, that no ver- nmicular or progressive motion in the arteries has yet been observed; 3rd, that no dia- rmetrical enlargement is visible in the living body; and 4tli, that it is impossible to cexplain the almost perfect instantaneity of the pulse in all parts of the body, on the supposition that the tubes through which it is propagated are in a relaxed state. It is supposed, on the contrary, that the contractile fibres of the vessels operate at the same 'moment with the heart, so as to induce a rigidity of the whole arterial system, in order that the heart may produce its effect through all the vessels, almost 3S it would through • tubes of metal. (.Arnott ut supra.) Now the first of these objections does not apply, ‘ because such extensive elasticity as is supposed to exist does not occur, for even in the , dead body the pulse may be imitated; neither does the second objection apply much , better, because the very assumption that the pulse depends on the transmission of a wave of blood, presupposes a certain interval of time, and consequently a progressi\ e j dilatation. The third objection has been adverted to already (see note, p. 216.), to which I may add, that Poiseuille found, by direct and careful experiment, that the artery ’ apparently dilated with each systole of the heart, that it reacted with a force superior to the impressing impulse, and that the arterial tension was nearly the same in all parts of the system at the same time. (Journ. de Phys., par Majendie, viii. 296. ix. 48, 50.) 'The fourth and last objection equally falls to the ground, when it is recollected that no such rigidity as is supposed to be necessary for the propagation of the pulse actually occurs, for the isoclironism of the pulse is equally conspicuous in all states of the arterial tension, and is scarcely less remarkable in the dead body. When the heart contracts, a wave of blood is impelled into the arterial system, al- j ready full of blood, and the phenomena which immediately follow7 are, 1st, an onward I motion of the whole column of blood; and 2nd, a dilatation of the arteries in all direc- i tions, which dilatation can only take place at the expense of the force first exerted by the heart, but instantly reacts in the same proportion, so that no power is really lost, except what arises from friction, which is probably more than compensated for by theOF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 230 actively contractile properties of the arteries themselves. Now the rate at which a wave of blood is propagated is estimated at sixteen feet in a second, so that the con- traction of the arterial system must he nearly instantaneous in all parts, although it must be apparent that the least deviation in this respect will be sufficient to give a ver- micular character to the motion, and consequently a direction to the current. It seems probable therefore that the arteries do actually cooperate with the heart in propelling the blood, although I am disposed to regard this effect rather as incidental than as one of the primary objects for which muscularity was introduced into the arterial structure. The primary objects seem to be, 1st, to enable the arteries to accommodate their capacity to the varying quantities of blood in the system ; 2nd, to modify the velo- city and quantity of blood sent to individual parts, without engaging the whole system in this act; and 3rd, to secure the temporary arrest of haemorrhage. 3. Adjacent muscular contraction can only operate on that portion of the blood which has already passed the principal bar of the capillary circulation. It must materially tend, however, to accelerate the blood during active exercise, although it has probably little effect on the ordinary circulation. The alternate action and relaxation of the abdominal muscles in ordinary respiration will be attended with a similar effect. 4. The pulsation of the arteries against the adjoining veins must ultimately be referred to the force of the heart. Inconsiderable as this agency may appear, it is certainly de- serving of being taken into account, for when we reflect on the force with which the foot is raised when one leg is laid in rest over the other, we may see how the same force, counteracted by the elastic tension of the skin, and thus brought to operate on the venous circulation, may have considerable effect; not to mention the fact that large arteries and veins are often bound together in a common sheath of fascia. 5. The pressure of the external air has been a good deal insisted on. A tendency to form a vacuum in the chest has been supposed to arise from four causes: 1, the active dilatation of the right auricle and ventricle; 2, the contraction of the ventricles; 3, the resiliency of the lungs ; and 4, the enlargement of the chest during inspiration. With- out, however, entering into the specific objections which may be urged against each of these views separately, I shall merely observe, in general, that the circulation goes on with quite as much celerity in the foetus in utero as in the adult; that it goes on in birds, tnrtles, cetacea, &c., in which the lungs are adherent to the chest, and in fishes in which there are no lungs at all; and finally, that it goes on in artificial respiration, when the heart and chest are fairly exposed, as well as in persons who voluntarily hold their breath. Nothing, indeed, can be conceived less adapted for the office of a pump than the whole aspect of the venous system, which would infallibly collapse if any con- siderable external pressure was exerted upon it. It is probable that the utmost suge- scent power of any of these causes, or all of them combined, in ordinary respiration is not sufficient to raise a column of blood of a single inch (Arnott, p. 512.); for although the force e tcrgo soon raises the tension of a vein on which a ligature has been placed nearly to the same degree as that of the arteries, yet the suction on the near side of the ligature is not sufficient to empty this portion of the vessel, provided it lies ever so little below the horizontal plane of the heart. Poiseuille, in his experiments, found, that even in the arteries the flow of blood was sometimes entirely arrested during forced inspiration, and accelerated in the same pro- portion during expiration (op. cit., viii. 2!)8.); effects which are still more visible in the great veins in the immediate vicinity of the chest, ns well as in those of the brain and spinal marrow, from these vessels, which are destitute of valves, allowing a regurgitation of blood: nothing, however, is gained to the circulation by this means, for one effect is exactly balanced by the other, the sugescent and repellent influences being exactly correspondent. 0. Gravity. The arch of the aorta rising several inches above the entrance of the venaOP THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 231 tava inferior into the auricle, the gravitating pressure of the descending column of blood in the arteries will of course be sufficient to lift the ascending column in the veins se- veral inches beyond what is actually required. The reason that the tension of the veins is not equal to that in the arteries is that the blood in the former finds a ready escape into the auricle, so that unless some obstruction is found in the auricle, the venous tension can never exceed that which will be required simply to lift the column ol blood to the heart, added to that required to overcome the friction. Dr. Hales found, that although the column of blood from the carotid artery of a horse rose ten feet in his experimental tube, the venous column did not exceed six inches; but “ when from agitation of the animal, or any straining exertion, the passage of the blood into the breast was impeded, all the veins became tense, and a tube inserted into the returning jugular had blood running over, at a height of three feet above the heart.” A similar increase of tension is shown in common venesection, so that the first jet of blood is often found to ascend to the top of a lofty bedstead, although a minirte afterwards the stream may not project a single foot. Poiseuille found that the arterial tension of the carotid of a dog was just doubled when the aorta and its primary branches were previously tied. 7. The Capillaries.—It was Bichat’s opinion that the influence of the heart did not extend beyond these vessels, but that “ dans le systfeme eapillaire generate la contrac- tility insensible ou la tonicite rcste seul pour cause de mouvement du sang;” and cer- tainly, if we admit ever so little force to reside in this system, the extent of it is so great that the aggregate force of the whole would amount to something very consider- able. I shall not do more than simply refer to plants, sponges, medusae, entozoa, and many of the lower tribes of animals, in which the circulation of the nutritive fluids seems entirely to be dependent on the force of the capillaries; but as we ascend the animal series we still observe the influence of this system, the heart seeming to be, as in fishes, rather an appendage to respiration, to ensure the regularity of this function, than ne- cessary to the general circulation. Hunter has remarked that the heart is proportion- ally small wherever the arteries are endowed with great muscular powers, examples of which may be found in foetuses and hybernating animals: in both of which there is com- paratively great tenacity of life, joined to an unusual development of the cutaneous capillary circulation. In the foetus a double circulation is to be maintained through the placenta and the system, although the heart is found to be proportionally small as compared with the whole mass of blood, at the same time that it is placed under such circumstances that it cannot possibly receive any assistance from suction or muscular motion. Another scries of proofs is derived from diseases and malformations of the heart and great arteries. In many of these examples (See Otto’s Compend. of Path. Anat., pp, 2(52—269, and MeckeCs Man. d’Anat., ii. 109, 292.) it seems impossible to consider the heart as the prime agent of the circulation; not to mention that the foetus has occa- sionally attained its full growth in the womb, and even lived for some days after expul- sion, where not the smallest rudiment of a heart has been observable. (See Brodic in Phil. Tr. 1809, p. 161.) Now, as there is no pulsation in the vena cava of adults, in the trunk of the lymphatic system, nor in the aorta of fishes, but the fluid in these vessels is entirely propelled by the force e tergo, it seems reasonable to infer that pro- bably the same principle operates in the foetus, and that the organization in fact follows more or less the inferior type where the capillary circulation is totally independent of a central organ. Many facts, however, might be stated which seem directly to prove the independent action of the capillaries: 1. The derivation ofblood into the collateral cutaneous capil- laries, and the increased warmth which ensues thereupon, in cases where a ligature has been placed on the main artery of a limb. 2. The united force of the capillaries, as evinced in the raising of the toe when one leg is placed over the other, as contrasted232 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. with the small force required to stop the current of blood in any large artery, 6eems only explicable on this principle. 3. Blushing, and partial determinations of blood in health and disease. In fevers the heart is observed to act with great energy at the same time that the whole capillary system is proportionably contracted, while, on the other hand, local determinations and excitements are perfectly compatible with a feeble action of their viscus. No fixed relation, in short, seems to exist between the activity of the central organ and the peripheral circulation. 4. Nearly allied to this is the de- rivation of blood to a wounded vessel or part after the extraction of the heart; and the generation, as it were, of new vessels capable of admitting red blood. 5. The liability of the capillary circulation to be retarded or entirely stopped by causes operating on the nervous system, notwithstanding that the heart’s action continues unabated; for it must be evident that the power which can resist the impulse of the heart at one time, may assist it at another. 6. The different velocities of the blood in the same series of capillaries, and the liability of these velocities to be reversed from slight causes, is sufficient proof of the power of these vessels to control the local circulation. 7. Tbe power of the capillaries to carry on the local circulation after the removal of the heart has been attested by numerous observers. Guillot remarked it in the frog’s foot, when separated from the body, for nearly half an hour, (Journ. de Phys., par Majendie, xi. 170.) although the progression of the blood in such cases has generally been observed to be very irregular. 8. Hence the vacuity of the arterial system after death, and the gorged state of the veins; and hence also the disappearance of the blush of inflammation after death; but in deaths from lightning the arterial system is found full of blood, con- trary to what generally happens; for the cause of death being such as to destroy the tonicity of the vessels, the capillary tubes are now no longer able to pump the blood from one system of vessels into the other. In asphyxia the right ventricle continues to act vigorously for some time after apparent death, although it is unable to propel its contents forward through the pulmonary capillaries, in consequence of these vessels being paralysed by the black blood (see note, p. 158.). 9. The experiments of Hunter and Wedemeyer before mentioned can only be explained on this hypothesis (p. 158); and, lastly, the analogy which arises from the foregoing phenomena, that the blood when it gets into the capillary structure falls more or less under the dominion of those laws which regulate the circulation of the inferior animals. The inference which may fairly be drawn from the whole of these facts seems to be that the capillaries possess a distributive power over the blood, so as at least to regulate the local circulation independently of the central organ, in obedience to the necessities of each part. In the lower animals a slow circulation only of the blood is required, because the respiratory organs being here distributed over the whole body, and the systems of black and red blood being imperfectly preserved, a rapid circulation would answer no object: here, therefore, the capillaries suffice. In proportion, however, as the respiratory organs become more centralized so does the distinction between the two bloods become more definite and the necessity for arterial blood more imperative; so that here a heart becomes necessary, in order that the blood may be subjected to the influence of the air in a complete manner, and be supplied with due rapidity to the different organs of the body. It is possible that the capillaries may possess a propel- lent as well as a distributive power, and thus vicariously assist the heart under certain circumstances. I do not think it probable, however, that they concur to any great ex- tent in the ordinary circulation. 8. Vital attractions and repulsions, existing either between the vessels and their contained fluids, or else between the different particles of the fluids themselves, is another agency to which many of the preceding phenomena have been ascribed. The following are the grounds for this opinion: 1. The capillaries appear as mere inert tubes under the microscope. 2. A determinate circulation or cydosis is carried on inOF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 233 the parenchyma of many animals and vegetables where no vessels exist. 3. A similar phenomenon is observed in the first days of embryonic life, the vessels being a result or consequence of these motions; and, lastly, the globules possess an inherent power of self-motion (see notes, pp. 63. 131), in virtue of which they move in determinate direc- tions, agglomerate together in piles or rouleaux, traverse the substance of recently de- posited lymph, ascend against the force of gravity when effused on the surfaces of living membranes, escape from the blood-vessels into the parenchyma of the surrounding tex- tures, &c. &c. (Haller, Dollinger, Gendrin, Rayer-Collurd, Kaltenbrvnner, and Mar- shall Hall.) These attractions and repulsions are supposed by some to resemble the attractions and repulsions of similar particles united so as to compose muscular fibre, and by others to depend on the different electrical relations induced by respiration and nutrition altering the chemical constitution of the blood. Thus, according to this prin- ciple, attraction is supposed to draw the blood to a part being in action, and repulsion to drive it from it, and this in exact proportion to the energy of the action going on in that part; so that instead of the increased circulation being, as is commonly supposed, the cause of the increased action, the very reverse is the case. The vital action induced in a branch of a tree exclusively exposed to the sun, is the cause and not the effect of an increased flow of sap into it. (See Alison’s Physiology, p. 32, and Supp., p. 25.) 9. Endosmose and Exosmose.—Attempts have been made to refer the circulation of the blood to these sources, but it is difficult to conceive how such causes can give a de- terminate direction to the circulating fluids, or how the circulation thus carried on can be affected by physiological causes. (See Raspail's Organic Chemistry, tr. by Dr. Hen- derson, p. 400.) BIBLIOGRAPHY OK THE VASCULAR SYSTEM*. Adye, R. (Th.) DeSang. Circ. viribusqueeundemfacientibus. 1778. Albinas, B. S. Acad. Adnot. 1754. 1. iv. c. 8. De Arterise Memb. et Vasis. Alderson, J., M.D. Quart. Journ., xviii. 223. Remarks on the Beating of the Heart. Alison*, loc. cit. and Fourth Report of Brit. Assoc., p. 674. On the Contractile Power of Arte- ries leading to Inflamed Parts. Andral. 1. c. Araldi, M. Mem. delle Soc. Ital. (1S04.) xi. 342. 383. (1810.) xv. 166. 196. Della Forza e dell’ Influsso del Cuore sul Circolo del Sangue. Arnott*, N., M.D. Elements of Physics. 5th edit. 1833. p. 543. Baer, C. E. <1 De Ovi Mamm. et Hominis gencsi. 1828. Barclay, J., M.D. A Descrip, of the Arteries. 1812. Baron. Bulletin des Sc. Med. ii. 169. L'Usage des Anastomoses. Barry, Sir David. Rech. Exp. sur les Causes de Mouvement du Sang dans les Veines. 1825. and Transl. 1826. Bassuel, C. Mem. de Math. et de Phys. (1750.) i. 22-55. Diss. Hyd.-Anat. des Arteres. Bedard. Mem. de la Soc. Med. d’Emul. (1817.) viii. Sur les Blessures des Artfires. Behrends, J. Diss. qua demonstratur Cor Nervis carere, addita Disquis. de Vi Nervorum Arterias cingentium. 1792. Bell, Sir C. An Essay on the Forces which circulate the Blood. 1819. Bcllicri, L. De Urinis et I’ulsibus, &c. 1698; et Opusctila. 1714. De Motu Cordis. Belmas, D. Sur la Structure des Arteres, See. 1822. Ber- doe. 1. c. Berlin, J. E. Qusestio Med., An Causa Motus alterni Cordis multi- plex? 1740. (Haller. Disp. Anat. ii. 429.) Berlin, R. T. and Bouillaud, J. Traite * Sec p. 138 for the explanation of the star and for the titles of those works which :> are here merely referred to.OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 234 des Maladies du Creur, &c. 1824. Bernouilli.—See Passavant. Berzelius, J. 0. A View of the I’rog. of Anim. Chem. Ir. by G. Brunnmark. 1813. pp. 24, 25. On the Chem. Constitution of the Arter. Tunics. Bichat*. 1. c.—Black, J., M.D. On the Capill. Circ., &c. 1825. Blancardi, S. Anat. Pract, &c. accedititem trac- tatus de Circ. Sang. &c. 1688. Bordeu, T. Rech. sur le Pouls, &c. (ou CEuvrcs Comp. 1818. i.) 1754. Bourdun, Is. Rech. sur le Meehan, de la Respir. et sur la Circ. du Sang. 1820. Borelli. 1. c. Breckelmann, M.L.R. De Nervorum in Arteriis Imperio Dissert. 1744. (llallcr. Disp. Anat. iv. 425.) *Brodie, Sir Bmj. Phil. Trans. 1809. p. 161. Account of a Dissect, of a Human Foetus in which the Circ. wps carried on without a Heart.—ib. 1811. p. 36. On the Influence of the Brain on the Action of the Heart. Bosch, II. Fan den. Theor. und Prakt. Bemerken* ger liber das Muskelvermogen der Haargefaschench. 1792. Brcschet. Rech. Phys. et Path, sur le Systeme veineuse. 1819. Broussais, F. J. V. Mem. de la Soc. Med. d’Emul. vii. 1. and Ann. de la Soc. de Med. de Montp. xx. 195. Sur la Circ. Capillaire. Brown, II. Phil. Mag. et Ann. of Phil., Sep. 1828. p. 161. Micros. Ohs. on the Self-movement of organic and inorganic Molecules. Buniva. Recueil period, de la Soc. de Med. vii. 110. Exp. sur les Injections dans l’Anim. viv. et dans leCadavre. *Burdach. 1. c. Burns, J. On the Diseases of the Heart. 1809. Carlile, II. Third Report of Br. Association (1834), p. 454. Observ. on the Motions and Sounds of the Heart. Carlisle, Sir A. Phil. Tr. 1S05. p. 1. Croonian Lecture on Muscular Motion.—ib. 1800. p. 98; 1804. p. 17; and 1806. p. 1. On a Peculiarity in the Distrib. of the Arter. of slow-moving Animals.- * Carson, J., M.D. An In- quiry into the Causes of the Motion of the Blood, &c. 1815. *Carus, C. E. O. Lehrbuch der Zootomie, tr. Fit. by A. J. L. Jourdan, 2dme 6dit. 1835. ii. 298. Systtime Vasculaire, and tr. Eng. by R. T. Gore. ii. 263. Chirac, P. De Motu Cordis, &c. 1698. Chassaignac, E. De la Circulation Veineuse. Clark, IV., M.D. Fourth Report of Br. Association (1835), pp. 95,129. Report on Animal Physiology, comprising a Review of the Blood and Powers of Circulation. Clift, IV. Phil. Tr. 1815. p. 91. On the Influence of the Spinal Marrow on the Action of the Heart. Cloquet, J. Do 1’lnfluence des Efforts sur les Orgaues dans la Cavite thoracique. 1820. Corvisart, J. N. Sur les Maladies du Coeur, &c., 3thne edit 1818, and tr. by C. II. Hebl). 1813. -Core, R. An Enquiry into the Claims of Dr. William Harvey to the Discovery of the Circulation of the Blood, &c. 1834. Cranen, T. CEcon. Anim. ad Circ. Sang., See. 1703. *Cuvicr, le Baron, G. Lc$ons d’Anat. Comp, an vii-xv. and Le Rcgne Animal. 1829. Dennison, R., M.D. Disp. Inaug. Arter. omnes et Venarum Partem Irritabilitate prse- ditas esse, (in Smellie’s Thes. Med. iii. 394.) 1775. *Dollinger. 1. c. et Journ. des Prog, des Sc. Med. ix. Sur la Circ. Capill. Dutrochct, II. Rech. Anat et Phys. sur la Struct, intime des Anim. et des Veg. et sur leur Motilite. 1824.—De 1’Agent immediat de Mouvemcnt Vital. 1826; and Ann. des Sc. Nat. xv. Ehrmann, C. II. Struct, des Artereset leur l’roprietes et leurs Fonctions, &c. 1822. Ens,A.lTh.) De Causa Vices Cordis alternas producente. 1745. (Haller. Disp. Anat. ii. 409.). Entius, G. Apol. pro Circ. Sang. 1689. Falconer, IV., M.D. Observ. respecting the Pulse. 1796. Fischer. Dissertatio de Motu Sanguinis, 1720. l'loerckius, G. (Th.) Transitum Sang, per Vasa minima, &c. 1713. Flourens, P. Rech. sur les Fonctions du Syst. Ncrvcux dans les Ani- maux\erlebits, 1824-5. and Supplement du precedent, 1825. and Mem. dc 1'Iu-OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 235 stitut, tom. x. Formay, J. L. Versuch einer Wurdigung der Pulsen. 1823. Fouquet, H. Sur le l’ouls (nouv. 6dit.). 1818. Hardier,. Bull, du Sc. Med. iv. 31. Sur la Circ. Capill. Gaya,it, L. Mem. de Paris. J. p. 36. Obs. sur les Valv. des Veines. Gcndrin, 1. c. Gerdy, S. N. Sur 1 organ. du Coeur, dans le Journ. Comp, du Die. des Sc. Med. Giulo et Rossi. Mein. de l’Acad. de Sc. de Turin, iv. 50. Dissert, de Excitabilitate Contract. Vi Parti- bus Muse. ope. Elect. Glass, C. P. De Sang. Circ. 1736. (llaller. Disp. Anat. ii. 201.) Grant. 1. c. et Edin. Phil. Journ. xiii. and xiv. Gruner, C. J. Semi- otice Phys. et Pathol. 1775. Guillot, N. Journ. de Phys. par Majendie. (1831.) xi. 145. Obs. sur quelques Phenom. de la Circ. •tHales, G., n.D. Statical Essays. 4th edit. 1767. *Hall, M., M.D. On the Cir- cul. of the Blood. 1831. * Haller, A. 1. c. et Mem. sur la Nat. Sens, et Irrit. des Parties. 1756. §. xi.—Opera Minora, i. 60-241. Sur la Circul. Capill.—Sur la For- mation du Coeur dans le Poulet, &c. 1758. Comm. Soc. Gotting. i. 263. Exp. de Cordis Motu; and ib. iv. 396. De Sang. Motu Exp. anat. Harrison, R. On the Surgical Anat. of the Arteries. 1824-5. *llarvcy, G. De Cordis et Sang. Motu. 1648. *Hastings, C., M.D. On Inflam, of the Mucous Mem. of the Lungs, with Exp. Inquiries respecting the contractile power of the Blood-vessels in Inflam. 1820. Hcbenslreit, J. S. De Vaginis Vasorum. 1710. Heberden, W., M.D. Med. Trans, ii. 18. Remarks on the Pulse. Hering, Prof. Zeitschrift fur Pliysi- ologie, iii. and iv. part 1.—Journ. de Prog, des Sc. Med. x. et Med. Gaz. (1834). xiv. 745. Exp. tending to show the Rapidity of the Circ. Hewson. 1. c. Hodg- son, 1. c. ILome, Sir E. Lect. on Comp. Anat. 1814. p. 47. On the Meehan, of the Heart Hope, J., M.D. On the Diseases of the Heart, comprising a new View of the Physiology of the Heart’s Action. 1832. Housset. Ment. sur les Parties irrit. et sens. ii. 404. Humboldt, F. A. Exp. sur l’Irrit. des Fibres Muse., &c. tr. from the German by J. F. Judelot. 1799. Hunt, J. Obs. on the Circ. of the Blood, &c. 1787. ' * Jones, T. F. On the Process employed by Nature in suppressing Haemorrhage. 1805. Jurin, J. Phil. Trans. 1718. p.863; 1719. pp. 929. 1039. Diss. de Fotentia Cordis. '*Kaltenbrunncr. 1. c. Keill, J. Tentam. Med.-Phy. de Velocitate Sanguinis. 1718: and Phil. Tr. 1719. p. 995. Kerr, G. Obs. on the Harveian Doct. of the Circ. of the Blood. 1819. Konrad, G. V. De Arter. Fabrica. 1814. Kramp, C. De Vi vitali Arteriarum, &c. 1785-8. Kreysig. Ueber die llerzkrankheiten. 1814. ILaennec, R. T. If. De l’Auscult. M6diatc. 3t>me 6dit. 1831. pp. 195, 445. tr. by J. Forbes, M.D. 4th edit. 1834. On the Action of the Heart. Lamure, F. Mem. de Paris, 1749. p. 541 ; and 1765. p. 620. Rech. sur la Cause de la Pouls des Ar- teres. Lancisi. 1. c. Langelotl, A. C. De Fabrica et Usu Cordis. 1676. Lassone. Mem. de Paris, 1756. p. 31. Rech. sur la Struct, des Arteres. Lecuwen- hoeck. 1. c. Le Gullais. 1. c. etExp. sur le Principe de la Vie. 1812.—Nouv. Bull. de la Soc.Philom. (1812.) iii. 5. SurlaForcedu Cceur; et Recueil period, de la Soc. de Med. xxxv. 425. *Leurct. Journ. des Prog, des Sc. Med. v. Sur la Circ. Capill. Lister. Phil. Tr. 1834. p. 365. Obs. on the Struct, and Functions of tubular and cellular Polypi, showing the mode of circ. in these animals. Lorry. Savana Etrangers. (1752.) iii. Lower, R., M.D. Tractatus de Corde. 1728. Luca, S. E., M.D. Qusedain Obs. Anat. circa Nervos, Arterias adeuntes et comitantes. 1810. ——Ludwig, C. G. (Th.) De Arter, Tunicis. 1739. (Ilalkr. Disp. Anat. ii. i.)OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 236 *Majendie. !. c. et Journ. de Phys. (1821.) i. 97. 102. 132. and 190. Sur la Circ. et sur l’Action des Art£res dans la Circ.; and Lectures on the Circ. in Lancet 1834-5. i. 310. et seq. Malpighi. 1. c. Martin-Saint-Ange. Anatomie Analytique: Circulation du Sang, consideree chez le foetus de rhomme, et comparativement des quatre classes d’aniinaux vertebras. 1833. Marx, II. Diatribe Anat-Phys. de Struc- ture atque Vita Venarum. 1819. Mauban, 11. Essai sur la Circul. 1808. Mayo, 11. 1. c. and Anat and Phys. Comm. 1822-3. p.16. Mayer, J. C. A. Anatomische Bcschreibung der Blutgefasse des menschlichen Korpers. 1777-8. et Edit 2de. 1788. Meckel, J. F. Journ. Comp, du Die. des Sc. Med., i. 259. Sur le Developpment du Cceur, et Man. d’Anat. Gen. tr. by A. L. Jourdan et G. Breschet. 1825. i. 125. Du Systdme Vasculaire. Meyen, 1. c. Mondini. De Arteriarum Tunicis, in Opus- coli, Sic. 1817. Moulin. 1. c. Munro,A. (Prim.) Edin. Med. Ess. and Obs., ii. 264. Remarks on the Coats of Arteries. Murray, A. Descrip. Arteriarum. 1783-98. Nicolaus, II. A. De Directione Vasorum pro modificando Sang. Circ. 1725. (Haller. Disp. Anat., ii. 481.) Nyslen. 1. c. et Nouv. Rech. Galv. sur les Org. musculaires, &c. An xi. % Paletta, J. B. Mem. dell’ Instit. Ital., i. 34. Del Movimento retrog. de Sangue. Parry, C. H., M.D. On the Arterial Pulse. 1816; and Add. Exp. 1819. Passa- vant, D. (Th.) De Vi Cordis. 1748. (Haller. Disp. Anat., vii. 329.) Pasta, A. De Motu Sang, post Mortem, &c. 1786. Pechlin, J. N. De Fabrica et Usu Cordis. 1676. Pelletan. Clin. Chir. 1810. iii. Sur le Coeur. *Philip, A. P. IV., M.D. Exper. Enquiry into the Laws of the Vital Functions. 2nd edit. 1818; and Phil. Tr. 1815. pp. 65, 424. On the Relations between the Nervous and Sanguiferous Systems.—See also Treatise on Sympt. Fevers. 4th edit. 1820. pp. 15, 17.; et Med. and Chir. Tr.,xii.*401. On the Circulation, and particularly the Capillary. Piorry, P. A. De l’Explor. des Organes par la Percussion, and Collect, de Mem. sur la Phys. 1831. 3eme. Sur la Circ. Plenk. 1. c. *Poiseuille, J. L. M. Journ. de Phys. par Majendie, (1828.) viii. 273. (1829.) ix. 341. Sur la Force du Cceur aortique:— ib. p. 44. Sur l’Action des Artdres daus la Circ. art£rielle:—ib. (1830.) x. 277. Rech. sur la Cause du Mouvement du Sang dans les Veines. Portal, A. L’Anat. Med. 1804. iii. 72; and Mem. de Paris. 1770. pp. 42, 244. Posewitz, J. F. S. Phys. der Pulsadern des menschlichen Korpers. 1795. Prevost and Dumas. Ann. des Sc. Nat. iii. 46. Developpement du Cceur et Formation du Sang.—See also tom. xii. Prochaska. 1. c. Raspail. 1. c. et Bull, des Sc. Nat xii. 193. Rayer-Collard. Essai d'une Syst. de Zoonom., p. 80. Regis, J. C. De Sang, in suo per vasa progressu, Sic. (Haller. Disp. Anat., ii. 595.) Reichel. 1. c. Reiset, S. Misc. Acad. Nat Cur. 1673-4. p. 245. 1678. p. 91. 1682. p. 448. De Circul. Rezia, J. De Ratione Sang. Mo- tus in Arterias. (Ramer. Dissert. Med. Ital.) Richelmann, J. E. De Valvularum, Sic. 1683. Richerand. 1. c. et Mem. de la Soc. d'Emul. an iii. 296. Riolan, J. De Motu Cordis et ejus Circ. 1652. Rolando. Journ. Comp, du Die. des Sc. Med., xv. 323. xvi. 34. Sur la Formation du Cceur et des Vaisseaux, &c. Rose, L. G. 1. c. Sabatier, R. B. Traitd d’Anat. 3£mc 6dit. 1791. iii.; and M6m. de Paris. 1774. p. 51. Sur la Circ. du Sangdu Foetus et sur la Capacite du Cceur. Santorini, J. D. Obs. Anat. 1724. cap. viii. De iis qua; in Thoracem sunt. Sauvages, F. L. B. M£m. de Montp., ii. 140. 211. Thtorie du Pouls and M£m. de Berlin. 1755. p. 34. Rech.237 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. sur les Loix du Mouvement du Sang. Scarpa, A. Tabulse Neurol, adillust. Hist. Anat. Cardiacorum Nervorum. 1794. Schedel, F. J. Physiologia Pulsus. 1829. Schilling. Savans Etrangers, i. Schmidt, D. IV. (Th.) De Motu Sanguinis per Cor. 1737. (Haller. Disp. Anat, ii. 391.) •Schultz, K. II. 1. c. et Journ. Comp, du Die. des Sc. M6d., xix. •Senac. 1. c. Sharpey. Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ., xxxiv. Smith. 1. c. Spallanzani, Z. Exp. sur la Circ., &c. tr. par D. M. M. Tourdes. An. viii. •Soemmerring, S. T. De Corp. hum. Fabrica. 1794- 1801. v. Angiologia, and Lehre vom Barre des menschlichen Korpers, iv. Sautien, G. Rec. period, de la Soc. de Sant6 de Paris, iii. 402. Sur la Circul. Sprengel, K. Beitriige zur Geschiclite der Pulsen. 1787. Storer. Trans, of a Soc. for the Im- provement of Med. and Chir. Knowledge. 1812. On the Want of Pulsation in para- lytic Limbs. Sudeten, S. Van. (Th.) De Arteri® Fabrica, &c. 1725. Testa, A. J. Delle Malattie del Cuore. 1810-3. Thomson, J. 1. c. *Tiedemann, F. I. c. et Tabul® Arteriarum. 1822—4. Treviranus. Erscheinungen, 1. c. Turner, T. On the Arterial System. 1825. Tyssot, P. F. De Circ. Sang. 1743. Vaust,J. F. Rech. sur le Struct et les Mouvemens du Cceur. 1821. *Vershuir, G. De Arteriarum et Ven. Vi irritabili, &c. 1700. Vieussens. 1. c.et Novum Vasorum Corporis hum. Systema. 1705j; and Traite de la Struct et du Mouvement du Cceur. 1711. Walter, F. A. Angiologisches Handbuch. 1789. * Wedemcyer. 1. c. et Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ., xxxii. 10 ; and xxxiv. 89. Weitbrccht, J. Comm. Acad. Petrop., vi. 276. vii. 283. viii. 334. De Circul. Sanguinis. Whytt. 1. c. Wilson, A., M. D. On the Circul. of the Blood. 1774. Winslow, W. Mem. de Paris. 1711. pp. 196, 201. Sur le Cceur. *Wintringham, C., M.D. An Inquiry into the Exility of the Vessels of the Human Body. 1743; or Works. 1752. * Wolff, C. F. Acta Acad. Petrop. 1780-7 ; et Nova Acta, i. and viii. Dissert. Octonovem de Cordis Fibris. Wrisberg, H. A. De Nervis Arterias Venasque comitantes. 1800. •Young. 1. c. et Phil. Tr. 1808. p. 164. Hydraulic Investigations concerning the Motion of the Blood.—1809. p. 1. On the Functions of the Heart and Arteries. Zerrener, A. T. N. An Cor Nervis careatet iis carere possit? 1794. Zimmermann, J. G. Diss. Pliys. de Irritabilitate. 1751; and Das Leben des Herrn von Haller. 1755. Zugenbuhler. Diss. de Motu Sang. 1815. N. B. For the Pathology of the Vascular System consult Otto's Compendium of Path. Anat., tr. by J. F. South. 1831. § xix.; Ploucquet's Repertorium Median® Practic®. 1808-9 ; and Reuw’s Repertorium Commentationum a Societatibus Literariis. 1801-13. tom. x. and xii.PART II. CHAPTER I. UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. I MAY observe, that all alterations in the natural dispositions of a body arc the result either of injury or disease; and that all deviations from its natural actions arise from a new disposition being formed®. Injury is commonly simple; disease more complicated. The dispositions aris- ing from these are of three kinds: the first is the disposition of resto- ration, in consequence of some immediate mischief, and is the most simple. The second is the disposition arising from necessity; as, for in- stance, that which produces the action of thickening parts, of ulceration, &c. This is a little more complicated than the former, as it may arise both from accident and disease, and therefore becomes a compound of the two. The third is the disposition in consequence of disease; which is more complicated than either, as diseases are infinite. Yet many local diseases, although complex in their natures, are so simple in their ex- tent as to allow the removal of the diseased part; becoming, when that is done, similar to many accidents11. As disease is a wrong action of the living parts, the restoration to health must first consist in stopping the diseased dispositions and actions, and then in a retrograde motion towards health. * [This observation is probably correct as far as regards injuries, which necessitate a new disposition, and consequently new actions, in order to repair the injury. But with regard to disease, it is, I think, manifestly wrong. Disease is a disordered state of action of the living parts, which must have been preceded by a disposition to such state of action. IIow, then, can such an alteration in the disposition be considered as the re- sult of disease ? It should rather be, all alterations in the natural dispositions of the body are the result of injury or some other cause tending to disorder them.] b [It would probably have been better to have divided these dispositions into two kinds, viz. healthy and unhealthy. The temporary thickening of the parts in the union of fractured bones and numberless other processes is as much a restorative action as union by the first intention, not to mention that this bust action is invariably attended with some degree of thickening of the parts.]UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. 239 In treating systematically of such complaints as are the objects of -surgery, we should always begin with the most simple, and advance .gradually to the more complicated, by which means we shall be more (clearly understood. There are many complaints requiring the attention of the surgeon ■which cannot be called disease; because, having been produced by -something foreign to the body, as in accidents, they are to be con- - sidered as a violence committed upon it, altering in some degree the • structure of parts, and consequently interrupting the natural operations t already described. The parts so hurt not being able to pursue their < original or natural mode of action, are obliged to deviate from it; and l this deviation will vary according, [1.] to the nature of the violence, [2.] t the nature of the part, and [3.] the state of the constitution at the time. An alteration in structure requires a new mode of action for its re- storation : as the act of restoration cannot be the same with what was ; natural to the parts before any alteration had taken place. The altera- tion of structure by violence requires only the most simple change in the natural action of the part to restore it, and of course the most simple method of treatment by art, if it be such as to require any assist- ance at all; for there are many accidents where none is necessary. It will be proper to observe here that there is a circumstance attending accidental injury which does not belong to disease, viz. that the injury done has in all cases a tendency to produce both the disposition and the means of cure. The operations of restoration arise naturally out of the accident it- self ; for, when there is only a mechanical alteration in the structure, the stimulus of imperfection taking place immediately calls forth the action of restoration. But this is contrary to what happens in disease ; for disease is a disposition producing a wrong action, and it must continue this wrong action till the disposition is stopped or wears itself out. When this salutary effect, however, has once taken place, the state of the body becomes similar to that in a simple accident, viz. a conscious- ness of imperfection is excited which produces the action of restoration. In injuries arising from accident we have hitherto supposed that the parts have no tendency to any diseased action independently of the accident, for if they have, it is probable that such a tendency may be stronger than the disposition for restoration, and in that case they will fall into the peculiar diseased action, as was explained when treating of susceptibility. Let us take the scrofula and the cancer as examples, and we shall find, that if a part be hurt which has a strong tendency to scrofula, it will most probably run into the scrofulous mode of action in preference to that of restoration, and therefore we have many joints.240 UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. when injured, assuming the scrofulous action, called white swelling; or if a woman beyond thirty years of age receives a blow on the breast, it is more likely to acquire the cancerous mode of action than that of re- storation, which should he well distinguished from what is immediately consequent, viz. the inflammation; for on this depends a knowledge of diseases. Although accident may be said to produce an effect on a part (what- ever that effect may be,) which has a tendency to its own cure, yet there are often not only immediate consequences arising from that effect, as inflammation ; and again, the consequences of this inflammation, as sup- puration ; but the bases of diseases are also frequently laid by it, not by producing them immediately or naturally, but by exciting some sus- ceptibility of the constitution or of a part into a disposition for a disease which may be latent for a considerable time, and then come into action. Thus scrofula, cancer, &c. often arise from accident, even where the parts, in consequence of the injury, have gone through the immediate and the secondary stages of a cure. Those effects of accident which arise from the nature of the parts hurt may be divided into such as take place in sound parts, and such as affect parts already diseased. The first is what I shall at present treat of; the second, being connected with disease, is not to our present purpose. The injuries done to sound parts I shall divide into two sorts, accord- ing to the effects of the accident. The first kind consists of those in which the injured parts do not communicate externally, as concussions of the whole body or of particular parts, strains, bruises, and simple fractures, either of bone or of tendon, which form a large division. The second consists of those which have an external communication, comprehend- ing wounds of all kinds, and compound fractures. Bruises which have destroyed the life of the part may be considered as a third division, par- taking, at the beginning, of the nature of the first, but finally terminat- ing like the second®. §. 1. Of Injuries in ivhich there is no external Communication. The injuries of the first division, in which the parts do not communi- cate externally, seldom inflame, while those of the second commonly » [The greater violence of the inflammation succeeding to injuries which communi- cate externally may be a sufficient ground for the division of the text, although it should be remembered that the reparative processes are identically the same in both rases. Ruptured muscles and tendons, and many kinds of bruises, excite quite as much inflammation as clean incised wounds of the same parts.]UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. 241 both inflame and suppurate. The same operations, however, very often take place in both, though the order in which they happen is reversed, the first becoming like the second, by inflaming and suppurating, and the second being in many cases, when properly treated, brought back to a resemblance of the first, and united by the first intention, by which inflammation and suppuration are prevented. But when the life of a : part has been destroyed by the accident, it must necessarily suppurate ; and therefore these injuries will be rendered similar, in this respect, to those which communicate immediately, and have not been united by • the first intention. That injury which in its nature is the most simple, and yet calls forth [the actions of the part to recover from it, is a degree of concussion*, where he only effect produced is a debility of the actions or functions of the ■whole or part, similar to that occasioned by a bruise, in which the con- •inuity of the substance is not interrupted: in such a state the parts nave little to do but to expand and reinstate themselves in their natural nosition, actions, and feelings; and this is what happens in concussion of the brain8. I he rupture of a small blood-vessel is, perhaps, the next in order of . implicity. Where the continuity of the part is broken, extravasation aakes place, and the blood is diffused into the common cellular mem- brane, into the interstices of some part, or into a circumscribed ’ avity. But should the vessel be either very large, or essential to life, • uch as the femoral, brachial, or coronary arteries; or should the rup- urc take place in a vital part, as the brain, or into interstices or cavities belonging to a vital part, as into the cavities of the brain or pericardium, a11 such cases the injury may kill from the extravasation alone, how- I ver inconsiderable may be the original mischief. 1 he operation of restoration in this case, when the vital parts are not : oncemed or disturbed, consists, first, in the coagulation of the extra- i asated blood between the ruptured parts, laying, as it were, the foun- dation of union; next, in closing the ruptured vessel or in promoting r'-3 inosculation ; and some time after in bringing about an absorption of ji he superfluous extravasated blood. If the vessel close, that effect is reduced by the muscular contraction of its coats; but in what way it * Here I mean concussion a3 a general term, not confining it to the brain. [Concussion of the brain is not unfreguently attended with an extravasation of i l00d >“ minute specks over an extended surface of the interior of the organ, as if ■ising from a rupture of a multitude of minute vessels: (See Bright’s Medical Reports, il. i. p. 405, and plates.) Probably some organic derangement takes place in all ises of concussion, although, from the extreme delicacy and minuteness of the ulti- late structure, such changes are not always cognizable by our senses.] ! VOL. III. jiUNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. 242 inosculates, whether by the two orifices when opposed having a mutual attraction, and, instead of contracting the two portions of the ruptured vessel elongating, so as to approach each other reciprocally, and unite* *, or whether by a new piece of vessel being formed in the intermediate coagulable lymph, is not easily determined*. Inosculation, however, can only take place where the extent of the parts divided is not great, and the opposite surfaces remain near each other; but even then it is most probable that we must in part ascribe to another mode of union the communication of vessels which takes * Inosculation is a term commonly used by writers, but whether it was derived from theory or observation is not material. The very few instances where it can be observed, together with the want of accuracy in those who first introduced the term, would incline me to think that it arose from theory or opinion only. I never could get an opportu- nity of observing it in all my experiments and observations on inflammation, except in the coats of the eye. In many inflammations of that organ we find an artery or arte- ries passing from the tunica conjunctiva to the cornea, and ramifying on that part. These have been often cut across to prevent the influx of blood ; the two ends are seen to shrink, but in a little time they are again perceived to unite, and the circulation to be carried on as before. In this there can be no deception ; and to perform, therefore, such an operation effectually a, part of the vessel should be removed i [Nothing certainly is known respecting the mode in which vessels inosculate. According to Professor Thomson, Mr. Hunter was deceived respecting the direct inos- culation of the vessels of the sclerotic coat of the eye. “ An attentive examination,” he says, “of the phenomena will show that it is not the divided extremities that unite again, but the folds of small branches that are prolonged into the intermediate space, which become channels of communication between the larger trunks, which had been divided, but the extremities of which had been previously closed.” (Led. on Inflam., p. 213.) This account, however, does not appear to me to render the matter at all more clear. With regard to the means employed by nature for arresting haemorrhage, see note, i. 359.] . • [Arteries of considerable size are sometimes regenerated in the lower animals. Dr. Parry tied the carotid artery of a young ram in two places, and removed two inches and a half of the intermediate portion, but in twenty-seven days the vessel was con* pletely restored, so tliat scarcely any evidence appeared of the operation having been performed. In another case the right and left carotids of a young ram were lied with single ligatures, but the continuity of these arteries was also completely restored in the course of eight weeks, although not in so perfect a manner as in the former experiment. The process by which this is accomplished seems to be us follows. Coagulable lymph is first poured out by the inflamed vessels in the intermediate space between the two ligatures, which soon becomes organized, when a number of minute vessels may b* observed extending in parallel lines between the two extremities of the artery, and thus making a communication between them. After a time one of these vessels is observ»*J to enlarge, till at length it acquires the full size of the original vessel; but, in propor- tion as this takes place, the others dwindle away, and the superfluous lymph become* absorbed. Such at least seems to be the process in brute animals where a portion of* large artery has been removed. I am not aware that anything similar has been © served in man.]243 UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. place between the two divided surfaces; for where inosculation does i not or cannot take place, the union of the ruptured vessels is produced by the coagulation of the extravasated blood of this part, which becomes i vascular. That the blood becomes vascular is clearly shown in the case of the blood extravasated on the testicle. [PI. XVIII. and XIX.] The - superfluous extravasated blood is token up by the absorbents, by which : means the whole is reinstated as much as it is in the power of the parts t to do it. I may observe here that the power of recovery in the arteries is l greater nearly in proportion to the smallness of their size, which is com- shined with several causes, viz. their distance from the heart, their elas- ticity, their division into smaller branches, and their accumulated dia- meters becoming larger, which allows them to recover. Secondly, • there is an increased power within the smaller artery itself, abstracted from the above circumstancesa. This includes a great variety of cases, and the most simple difference ■which can happen between them will be owing to the magnitude of the ruptured parts, or to a difference in the parts themselves, or to the magnitude of the injury, or to a difference in the effects. It will comprehend simple fractures of all kinds, broken tendons, (as is often fthe case with the tendo Achillis,) and even many injuries of the brain, :producing extravasations of blood, which is probably the only way in which the brain can be torn when there is no fractureh. Some of these will often require art to reinstate them in the natural [•oosition, out of which they may have been put by the accident, or by i some peculiar circumstance attending the nature of the part, as we see n a fracture of the patella, or broken tendon, where the upper part reing too far pulled up by the muscles, it must be reinstated by the rand of the surgeon, to bring the parts into a situation more favourable :o their recovery. But extravasations, even from the most simple accidents, are often so ituated as to obstruct the actions of life ; as, for instance, in that affec- * [The arteries become more muscular in proportion as the impetus of the blood be- omes less powerful; both which circumstances must combine to render the obliteration f a bleeding vessel more effectual and speedy. Is this, however, the author’s drift! r does he mean by “the power of recovery” that the small arteries, which are “ the ' ormers and supporters of the body,” or “ the efficient part of the whole animal rcspect- ■)g itself,” are capable of reinstating themselves after injury sooner than other parts! b [Concussion of the hrain may be in three degrees: 1. It may occasion an extensive upture of the substance of the brain ; 2. it may occasion rupture of the minute vessels nly, giving rise to an effusion of blood from a multitude of minute points; and, 3. it may nly strain the organ, without producing any visible rupture. These last cases, however, re not unfrequently fatal. See note, i. 488.] U 2244 UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. tion of the brain which is called apoplexy. The same thing happens in extravasations into the pericardium, or into any of the other vital parts, where little can be done although much is wanted. ' In many other parts, where the actions of life cannot be affected, yet the extravasa- tions are often too considerable to allow the parts to go through their proper modes of restoration. The quantity of extravasated hlood being often so large as to distend the parts, and form a kind of tumour called ecchymosis, of which I shall now treat. The extravasated blood in such cases being the only visible complaint, to remove it is the cure; which may be effected by absorption, or, if necessary, by an operation. An ecchymosis we may consider as of two kinds, one in which the blood coagulates when extravasated, the other where it remains fluid; but this distinction makes little difference in the disease itself, and of course little in the mode of treatment. It should be observed, however, that the first kind for the most part terminates well, while the second sometimes inflames and suppurates. When these injuries get well by the absorption of the hlood, the cure is gradual, and often takes a considerable time; but if the tumours be- come less and do not inflame, they should be allowed to go on to per- form their own cure : and even where inflammation takes place, that should be permitted to advance to suppuration, and the tumours to threaten bursting before they arc opened by art, or, what I believe would be still better practice, they should be left to open of themselves alto- gether. In some instances, a blow, the cause of the ecchymosis, may have injured the superficial parts or skin so much as to produce inflammation; and under such circumstances I should recommend the case to he treated as an inflammation arising from any other cause, without paying attention to the blood underneath. It often happens that the blow has deadened the skin over this blood, which deadened part, as is usual in such cases, must, in a certain time afterwards, separate from the living. Where this has taken place, and the extravasated blood has coagulated, it has often been found to remain in the cavity as a mere extraneous body, without acting, and without even allowing the stimulus of an ex- posed surface or of an imperfect cavity to take place. The edges of the skin all round showing the disposition to contract over this blood, ns if it was a living part to be preserved, nothing has seemed to be want- ing to finish the cure but the blood being alive with due powers of ac- tion. , In these cases the common practice has been to scoop out the bloou j and distend the internal surface with warm dressings, to stimulate it inflammation, &c.; and, a sore being the consequence of this method,J m- ***-•.' mm - - <*-.« •. -UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. 245 it. goes on as sores commonly do. But in other cases, where the open- ing leading to the coagulated blood has been very small, I have seen :that, without any other means being used, the blood has been gradually •squeezed out of the orifice by the contraction of the surrounding parts, till the whole cavity became so much contracted as to contain no more than what seemed to serve as a bond of union to the parts ; and thus the cure has been completed without further trouble. The following case was treated in this way. Mrs. B t fell backwards and pitched upon a pail which was behind her, and the left labium pudcndi struck against its handle with the 'whole weight of her body. Within five minutes after the accident the bruised part swelled to as great a degree as the skin would allow ; from u" l,lch sudden appearance of the swelling, and the feeling of fluctuation, ■ ^ concluded that blood had been extravasated by the rupture of some •small artery. I bled her, and desired a poultice to be applied to the pait, in order to keep the skin as easy as possible under such distention. Believing the tumour to arise from extravasated blood, I did not choose .o open it, that the bleeding might be sooner stopped by the pressure of the extravasated blood against the sides of the cavity. Some hours after the accident the skin burst, and a good deal of blood came away. 3n examining the wound, I found the opening of considerable size, eading into a cavity as large as the egg of a goose, and filled with co- agulated blood, which I did not remove, for the reason given above, that t might assist in stopping the vessels which were still bleeding. The ooultice was continued, the bleeding gradually became less, and every ime I examined the part I found the cavity diminished, but still filled • vith coagulated blood, which continued to be pushed out of the wound, ind after some time a slough came off from the bruised skin, which en- arged the size of the wound. About a fortnight after the accident the aarts were all so much collapsed as to have forced out the blood entirely, ml there seemed only a superficial sore, not above an inch long and talf an inch w ide. What may it be supposed would have been the consequence if I had nlarged the opening, scooped out the blood, and dressed the part with at, or any other application I might think proper ? The effect of such reatment would certainly have been a large sore, nearly of the same ize \\ ith the cavity; and the sides of the cavity would have inflamed nd suppurated. Is there not reason to believe that the coagulated blood, J remaining in the wound, prevented inflammation over the whole sur- ice, and allowed the parts to contract to their natural position, so as to -a\e no other sore than that where the skin had burst and sloughed ? da practice should be generally followed in such cases of ecchyrnosis.246 UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. The second species of ecchymosis is that in which the blood has not coagulated but remains fluid. This case, although it also frequently oc- curs, does not always terminate so well as the former, nor allow of such a salutary termination, where an opening has been made, either by the accident or by art, for then suppuration will be produced all over the cavity ; more caution is, therefore, necessary to prevent an opening. It has often the appearance of an encysted tumour; but, being an imme- diate consequence of some accident upon the part, its nature becomes readily understood, though sometimes from its situation it has the sym- ptoms of an aneurism attending it, neither does the cause of it contra- dict this idea. If formed over a large artery, the tumour will be attended with a pulsation; but when from this cause it cannot be made to subside by pressure, yet it is not, therefore, to be supposed harmless, as iu fact it requires to be treated with great caution. If the pulsation should arise from the real influx of blood, this will soon be shown by the in- crease of the tumour, and will lead to the proper treatment, viz. open- ing it and stopping the bleeding vessel3. This seldom happens from contusion, the kind of accident destroying in some degree [the texture of the parts, and] the free exit of the blood out of the artery; and if the tumour should not increase after a certain period, even if there be a pretty evident pulsation, we may then be certain that it assumes this symptom from some neighbouring artery or arteries. The ecchymosis which is produced on the head of a child during birth has sometimes a pulsation, arising from that of the brain, as the sutures are still open; and every tumour of the scalp, whether from a blow or any other cause, may be mistaken for aneurism, if it appears before the fontanel be closed, and should it be opened without proper examination may dis- concert the ignorant surgeon. That the blood does not coagulate in this species of ecchymosis, must arise from some peculiar mode of action in the vessels, occasioned by the effects of the injury ; for I apprehend that in such cases the blood dies in the act of extravasation, in the same manner as the blood of the men- strual discharge whenever it is effused. The ecchymosis which we have mentioned as happening very com- monly to children in the birth, particularly under the scalp, requires nothing to be done, as by waiting with patience the whole will in ge- neral be absorbed ; but although this is commonly the event in new-born a [This constitutes the false diffused aneurism of authors, which always requires tb* the vessel should be secured both above and below the wound with as little delay M possible. The pressure of the effused blood on the superior portion of the artery often prevents any pulsation from being perceptible.]UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. 247 infants, yet ecchyraosis does not terminate alike favourably in other ■ cases, the tumour often remaining for a considerable time without un- i dergoing any change, and after months sometimes disappearing, but at other times inflaming and suppurating. When an extravasation of blood takes place between the scalp and head, in consequence of a blow, which is very common, and continues • fluid, we find a kind of ridge all round the bag, and by pressing all round :the edge of the bag the finger sinks, so as to give distinctly (as we con- ceive) the feeling of a depressed bone; but this feeling of depression (following the edge of the ecchymosis all round, is a proof that it cannot ■ be depression of the bone, because no depression could be so regular, nor would any depression be of the same extent with the ecchymosis. The edge of the scalp surrounding the ecchymosis seems to be raised, and I believe it is; if so, then something similar to the adhesive inflammation .must have taken place to set bounds to the extent of the bag, and to hinder the blood from getting into the cellular membrane. It might, ; perhaps, be the best practice to make a small opening into such tumours ■ with a lancet, and by letting out the blood, get the sides of the cavity to heal by the first intention". When the parts inflame and suppurate, ■ the case is to be treated as an abscess. This sometimes disapjiears by resolution ; but this being seldom per- mitted, the ecchymosis is reduced either to the state of a fresh wound, which is allowed to suppurate, or an abscess; for surgeons are induced to open early by seeing an inflammation and feeling a fluctuation, two •strong motives when every circumstance is not well attended to; but in such cases I should wait till I observed evident signs of suppuration, viz. the thinning of the skin over the matter, and pointing of the con- tents, which are the only true marks of the formation of matter, as well as of its coming near the skin. If the blow should have deadened a part of the skin, then a separation of the slough will take place, and expose this cavity so as to produce suppuration. And this is to be considered as a step still further re- moved from the most simple species of injury than where the blood co- agulates. I am not able, under such circumstances, decidedly to say which is the best practice, whether to leave the slough to separate, or to make a small opening and allow the blood to escape slowly from the cavity. In both kinds of ecchymosis, when inflammation has taken place in [It can rarely be necessary to interfere with these cases, which generally ilo well under a simple treatment. The liability of the scalp to erysipelatous inflammation renders it particularly inexpedient to make any breach of the surface.]UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. 248 the skin from the violence, if it has not advanced to suppuration, the object of the surgeon should be to bring about the resolution of the tu- mour : when he finds there is no further increase of the tumpur, he may conclude that resolution is beginning to take place, which being clearly ascertained, he is then to assist in exciting the absorbents to do their duty, in order to take up the extravasated blood. I believe the best stimulus is pressure, which, if urged beyond the point of ease, sets the absorbents of the part to work, for the purpose of removing the sub- stance which presses, or the part that is pressed; but most commonly the body pressing, if it be subject to the laws or powers of absorption; and in this case the extraneous substance pressing on the inner surface of the cavity is the extravasated blood which we wish to have removed. The following cases explain this. A lady fell and struck her shin against a stone ; a considerable ecchy- mosis came on almost immediately, and the skin over it inflamed to a considerable degree. The blood had not coagulated; there was there- fore a perceptible fluctuation underneath, and her physician recom- mended an opening to be made. I was sent for, and on examining the part, was rather of opinion, from the surface being a regular curve, and no part pointing, that matter had not formed ; I therefore recommended patience ; the subsiding of the inflammation, and the application of such pressure as she could bear without uneasiness, caused the whole tu- mour to be absorbed. A man was brought into St. George’s Hospital whose thigh had been run over by the wheel of a cart; a very large ecchymosis was formed on its inside, and a considerable inflammation of the skin had taken place. The blood had not coagulated, therefore a fluctuation could easil} be felt; but as there was no appearance of pointing, similar to that of mat- ter coming to the skin, I was in hopes that suppuration was not coming on; and although the inflammation was considerable, I supposed that it might arise rather from the violence ot the accident than from the extravasation : I waited, therefore, the event; saw the inflammation gradually go off, and as that subsided I observed the tumour diminish, although it was very slow in its decrease. I then directed a slight com- press to be applied, after which the tumour evidently diminished much faster than before, till the whole was absorbed. The union by the first intention usually takes place so soon after the injury that it may be said to be almost immediate, for when the blood has coagulated in such a situation as to adhere to both surfaces, and so as to keep them together, it may be said that the union is begun. It is not, however, immediately secure from mechanical violence, and the blood itself, by losing its power of retaining life, may likewise be ren-UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. 249 dered unfit to preserve the communication with the adhering surface, by which it is connected with the body at large, and thus the union be of course prevented. If there be no such impediment, then the union of the parts may be very quick ; but it will be in some degree ac- cording to the quantity of extravasatcd blood interposed, for if that be large, the whole blood will not become vascular, but the surface only which is in contact with surrounding parts, and the rest will be absorbed as in the ecchymosis. Where the quantity is small, as in a slight wound without laceration, and where all the divided surfaces can be brought into almost absolute contact, their union will be firm in twenty-four hours, as happens in a hare-lip or wounds of the scalp. Although under such circumstances the blood seems to change into a solid form very quickly, yet when the situation of the wound particu- larly subjects the parts to mechanical violence, we should not trust to this union being completed in so short a time. In the hare-lip, for in- stance, perhaps forty-eight hours may be required to make it perfectly secure, and except when the stitches, by producing ulceration, might make scars, there can be no harm in allowing such parts even a longer time for their union. But in wounds of the scalp this caution is not necessary, and indeed in such cases it is scarcely required to make stitches at all. In cases of accidental injury, whether they be in themselves slight or considerable, in whatever situation or part they may have happened, if the salutary processes, above described, go on readily, no other effect of injury, or irritation, or pain, in consequence of Nature’s operations, is felt. No universal sympathy or fever takes place, except what arises from the mere injury done, but all is quiet as if nothing had happened, iliis is sometimes the case even in a simple fracture of the bones of the leg, in fissures of the skull, etc. However, the magnitude of the acci- dent often produces effects which arc alarming, and more particularly when they happen to parts essential to life. These effects are often the cause of much danger, the constitution becoming affected according to the nature and importance of the parts injured. Thus concussion and extravasation affecting the brain, must likewise affect the constitution, from the natural action and influence of this organ on the body being diminished, increased, or otherwise disturbed. The same thing happens from an injury done to any other vital part of the body, and the effects will be according to the use of such parts, or the influence which they have on the system. However, these immediate and salutary operations do not always take place simply, for they are often altered by other circumstances, as the accident sometimes becomes the cause of irritation, and produces an-UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. 250 other operation of the parts, called inflammation, which is often of sin- gular service, by increasing the power of union in the broken parts. This inflammation will generally be in proportion to the degree of injury done, the nature of the parts injured, and the state of the con- stitution at the time, which, in other words, is in proportion to what is requisite for the first powers of union. But it sometimes happens that inflammation goes further than is required, and produces a variety of actions succeeding each other in regular progression1. This may occa- sionally be observed in certain simple fractures, in which the extrava- sated blood acting as an extraneous body, becomes the cause of the suppurative inflammation; and the simple is in this way brought to a state resembling the compound fracture. The inflammation, however, does not extend over all the lacerated parts, as when they are exposed at the time of the injury, many of these having united by the first in- tention. We may here observe, that accidents of the most simple kind may produce effects which do not allow the common operations of nature to take place, as when a large blood-vessel is broken, or when a fractured rib penetrates into the lungs, or a compression of the brain arises from a fracture of the skull. But none of these accidents admit of the modes of cure above mentioned, as they each require particular treatment, and therefore are not to our present purpose. * [Among the conditions necessary to ensure the success of union by the first inten- tion, those which refer to the constitutional peculiarities of the individual are most de- serving of attention; as, for instance, a predisposition to gout, scrofula, rheumatism, or erysipelas, which will often be excited into action by the merest breach of surface, and thus frustate the designs of the surgeon. The same thing will also happen from internal organic disease, from what is called the inflammatory diathesis, arising from over nutrition; from long-protracted disorders of the digestive organs; and above all, from a peculiar and unnatural excitability of the nervous system, induced by debilitating causes, especially by the abuse of spirits, and accompanied as it usually is by a weakly frame of body. It is extraordinary how slight a cause will be sufficient in such cases to excite inflammation of a dangerous character, accompanied with local gangrenous tendency and all the worst symptoms of typhoid fever. To this head may also be re- ferred the important fact noticed by Mr. Travers, viz. that the inflammation and fever which follow injuries and operations, severely affecting the nervous system, and through it the circulation, are generally found to be modified by the preceding state of the system, so as to assume in their progress a low or typhoid character. Inflammations occurring in such states of the body are apt at once to run into suppuration, without previously passing through the adhesive stage. The propriety of paying attention to these circumstances previously to undertaking operations, especially those of convenience, is too obvious to be insisted on.]251 UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. §. 2. Of Injuries where the Wound communicates externally. The second division of injury arising from accident is where the rup- tured parts communicate externally, producing effects different from the former. These may be divided into two kinds, viz. wounds made by a sharp-cutting instrument, and contusions producing death in the parts injured. Wounds are subject to as great a variety as anything in surgery. A wound is a breach made in the continuity of the solids of a part, beginning most commonly on the external surface, and proceeding in- wards, although sometimes its direction is from the inside outwards, as in compound fractures. A gun-shot wound maybe said to partake of both circumstances, as it passes through a part: wounds often admit of the same mode of cure with accidents which do not communicate ex- ternally ; but then it requires the art of the surgeon to place them in the same situation, or under the same circumstances. A wound is either simple or compound; the simple is what I have now to explain, and is of such a nature as to admit of union by the first intention. Of this description we may likewise consider wounds which are the con- sequence of certain surgical operations. The form of the instrument by which wounds have been inflicted will also make a difference in their nature : for if it be sharp it will make a clean-cut wound; if obtuse in its shape a bruised one, and may also deaden a part, and the parts may likewise be torn after having been cut; all of which varieties will render a different treatment necessary towards effecting a cure. In the most simple cases of wounds, a number of blood-vessels being divided, there is an effusion of blood, which escaping by the wound, the internal parts are left exposed, especially the cellular membrane; and these, if not brought into contact with corresponding living parts im- mediately, or by means of the coagulated blood, will inflame and sup- purate. Accidents of this kind differ from those of the first division by communicating externally, a circumstance which makes them often re- quire very different modes of treatment. In cases where parts have been forced out of their natural situation, they should be reduced, that when cured they may answer their natural purposes, as in fracture, dis- location, &c. Wounds admit of three modes of treatment, arising from their size, situation, and the nature of the parts wounded. One mode is artificial, two are natural: in which last the constitution is allowed to perform the cure in its own way, which will be explained when we speak of scabbing. 'I hese being different from the former and from each other, it might be thought that 1 should have considered them first as being natural252 UNION T5Y THE FIRST INTENTION. processes; but the first can be put into the same state with the two others, and therefore ought to precede them. For this purpose art must be employed by the surgeon to bring the separated surfaces into con- tact ; that, by retaining them there till union shall have taken place, the injury may be removed from the state of an exposed wound. This treatment of fresh wounds, with a view to cure them by the first inten- tion, is equally proper after many operations as in accidental injuries. Instances of this often occur after dissecting out tumours, scalping when no fracture is found, and when trepanning has not been performed ; and it has been put in practice even where the trepan has been applied. It has been employed also after amputations; in short, wherever a clean- cut wound is made in sound parts, and when the surfaces can be brought into contact, or where there is sufficient skin to cover the part, this practice may and should be followed. In no case, however, of a breach of continuity can we entirely pre- vent the parts from retaining the appearance of a wound ; for the breach in the skin will more or less remain, and the blood will coagulate, be- come dry, and form a scab. But this operation of nature reduces the injury to the state of a mere superficial wound, and the blood, which is continued from the scab to the more deeply-seated parts, retaining its living principle, just as the natural parts do at the bottom of a super- ficial wound, the skin is formed under this scab in the one case as in the other; yet if the scab should either irritate, or a part underneath lose its uniting powers, then inflammation, and even sometimes suppuration, may be produced. It is often, however, only inflammation that is pro- duced ; the scab here preventing the further progress of mischief in the same manner as the scabbing of the pus on a sore prevents the process of suppuration, which becomes one of the uses of pus. In many of the cases in which we mean to produce union by the first intention, it is not necessary to be very nice in sponging out the blood, with a view to make the two surfaces of the flesh come entirely into contact, the blood itself answering a similar purpose*. In several cases, having brought the two portions of loose skin together, I have seen the tw’o cut edges unite almost immediately; and though the cavity under- neath was distended with blood, yet it did well, the tumour gradually decreasing as the blood was absorbed: this is to be considered in the same light as an ecchymosis. When the portion of skin is not sufficient to cover the whole wound, and the cut edges cannot be brought together, still the skin should be made to cover as much as it can, in order to diminish the size of the parts that must otherwise suppurate and form a sore ; as, in consequence [The impropriety of this advice will appear from the note at the end of this chapter.]UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. 253 uf this mode of treatment, the living extravasated blood is confined in the wound, and coagulating there unites the two surfaces together. The mouths of the vessels are soon shut, either by inosculation or their own power of contraction, and by the blood becoming vascular, as in the former stated case of union by the first intention ; and if there should be any superfluous extravasated blood, we know that it will be afterwards absorbed. The blood being alive, this uniting medium be- comes immediately a part of ourselves, and the parts not being offended by it no irritation is produced. The red particles are absorbed, and no- thing but the coagulating lymph is retained, which being the true liv- ing bond of union, afterwards becomes vascular, nervous, &c. This mode of treatment by art, though an imitation of the former, can seldom be supposed equally complete; perhaps we ought not to expect it to be so in any case, as there are circumstances often attending the artificial mode of treating wounds which do not occur in the natural, riie ligature used for tying a blood-vessel leaves an extraneous body in the wound*; a part deprived of life by the instrument, &c. will become an extraneous substance, and the surfaces cannot always be brought into contact, so as to allow a perfect union to take place. In such cases, union is prevented by the blood losing in part its living principle, espe- cially in those parts next to the external surface; and perhaps the art employed by the surgeon himself may assist in changing the original state of the wound, as the passing of needles and ligatures must always produce suppuration through the whole passage. These substances, so circumstanced, most probably become the cause of irritation, and con- sequently of inflammation. But if the position of the parts be such as in any sort to allow of union, although not readily, the inflammation will go no further than the first stage, and will even give assistance to the first mode of union. The possibility of effecting a cure by this method is probably limited to some certain distance of time after the wound has been received, though that space may admit of some latitude ; perhaps the sooner it is done the better; but while the blood continues to be extravasated it certainly may be attempted upon our first principles of union. Where the former bond of union is lost in a part, to produce a new one a secondary operation takes place, namely, inflammation; and if tins is likewise lost, then a third mofle of union will arise, which is by means of granulation. * If such a wound has a depending angle, and the vessels should even be tied nearer the upper angle than the lower, yet I would advise to bring the loose end of t >e thread out of the wound at the lower, for by that means the matter will flow much more easily. mucft254 UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. If the divided parts are allowed to remain till the mouths of the di- vided vessels are entirely shut, inflammation will inevitably follow, and will furnish the same materials for union which are contained in extra- vasated blood, by throwing out the coagulated lymph; so that union may still take place, though some time later after the division of the parts. This inflammation I have called the adhesive; and the inflam- mation that precedes suppuration I have called the suppurative inflam- mation3. If the parts, however, continue too long asunder, suppuration must follow, and pus is unfriendly to union. We may here observe, that suppuration takes place on exposed surfaces with a much less de- gree of inflammation and in much less time than on those which are not exposed, and from their not being opposed by living surfaces, which tend to bring on the adhesive state, they continue it much longer. Whether this coagulating lymph issues from the half-closed mouths of the vessels which were cut, or from the surface of the opened cells, is not easily determined, but most probably it is from the latterb, as it 3 [It is now generally considered that union by the first intention and adhesive in- flammation are essentially the same processes, modified by the degree of inflammation. Union by the first intention is uniformly attended with some degree of pain and swell- ing, together with increased heat and vascularity, which, taken conjointly, constitute the definition of inflammation. I may observe, that Mr. Hunter's language is doubly objectionable: first, because it implies two kinds of inflammation, instead of two stages of the same kind ; for suppu- ration is invariably preceded by adhesion, or the effusion of coagulable lymph; while, on the other hand, adhesion may always be converted into suppuration by simply in- creasing the irritation: secondly, because the word termination implies that the inflam- mation ceases upon the occurrence of adhesion, suppuration, or mortification, which is by no means true in all cases, nor to the full import of the word in any case. Practi- cally speaking, the language certainly expresses an important fact, which is, that the occurrence of either of these phenomena greatly mitigates the inflammatory action.] b [This opinion is rendered probable from the analogy which exists between the cel- lular and serous structures. There cannot be any doubt, in rgspect of the latter, that the same vessels are capable of secreting a simple healthy scrum, a turbid unhealthy serum, serum and lymph, lymph mixed with pus, or pure pus corresponding with the degrees of inflammation present, or irritation applied; but if this may happen to the pleura or peritoneum, why not also to the cellular membrane ? which is similar in struc- ture and function, and each cellule of which may he regarded as a small serous bag, in which all the phenomena of serous membranes are represented in miniature. Precisely the same phenomena are exhibited by serous membranes, cellular tissue, and recent wounds, under inflammation, and therefore it is probable that the lymph which in the two former cases is poured out without breach of surface, is also poured out from the same class of vessels in the latter case. The centre of a common phlegmon contains pus, because there the inflammation is greatest: the areola external to this is consolidated by the effusion of lymph; and still beyond this there is effusion of serum, producing simple (edema—exactly corresponding to the exudation, 1. of scrum, 2. of coagulable lymph, and 3. of pus, from the surfaces of a recent wound or from the superficies of a serous membrane which has been irritated.]255 UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. comes on about the same time that the swelling of the surrounding parts begins to appear. There is reason to suppose it to be the same kind of discharge with that which causes the swelling, and which is continued through the whole course of this stage of inflammation ; for on examining the dressings of such wounds as are allowed to suppurate, several days after the wounds have been made, the lint is generally ad- hering to the surface by means of the coagulating lymph, the suppura- tion not having yet sufficiently taken place to loosen it. W lien these operations are completed in due order, the simple opera- tions of the animal are entirely confined to the part, neither the mind nor the constitution seeming in such cases to be at all affected, except that there is a feeling of tenderness in the part. But whatever these sensations may be, they arise entirely from the injury done, and not from the operation of union, unless when the suppurative inflammation comes on. 1 he inflammation often runs so high, even where the parts have been brought into contact, as to destroy, by its violence, that union which the extravasated juices were intended to produce, the consequence of " hich is suppuration at last. Is it by this excess of inflammation that the extravasated juices lose their living principle, and become as it were extraneous bodies ? or is it not possible that in these cases the inflam- mation may be the effect rather than the cause of the loss of the living principle, by the blood first losing its living principle, and inflammation arising from it as a consequence ? The time required to complete this union will be nearly the same as that required for union by the first intention, and probably less if there be no particular tendency to suppuration ; but if there be, union may be suspended some time longer, for here the uniting medium will he thrown out in larger quantity; and where the union is most easily ef- fected there is less of this medium : when two surfaces unite by inflam- mation, they are commonly in contact, or else most probably union from this cause would not so readily take place. We shall find in the de- scription of the adhesive inflammation that the union of two sides of a circumscribed cavity is very soon effected, and soon becomes strong. here is another mode of union, which, although, upon the same principle, yet differs with regard to the parts which are to be united. I have hitherto explained union as taking place only in the division corresponding parts of the same living body, but it is equally possible to unite different parts of the same, or of different bodies, by bringing them into contact under certain circumstances. There is seldom occa- sion or such practice; but accident, or rather want of attention, has in some cases been the cause of union taking place between different parts256 UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. of the body. The chin 1ms been united to the breast, the tongue to the lips or cheek, etc., and when this happens it has commonly been through the medium of granulations. The attempt to unite parts of two difler- ent bodies has only been recommended by Taliacotius. 1 he most ex- traordinary of all the circumstances respecting union is by removing a part of one body and afterwards uniting it to some part of another, where on one side there can be no assistance given to the union, as the divided or separated part is hardly able to do more than to preserve its own living principle, and accept of the union. The possibility of this species of union shows how strong the uniting power must be. By it the spurs of the young cock can be made to grow on his comb, or on that of another cock; and its testicles, after having been removed, may be made to unite to the inside of any cavity of an animal. Teeth, after having been drawn and inserted into the sockets of another person, unite to the new socket, which is called transplant- ing”. Ingrafting and the inoculating of trees succeed upon the same principle*. * That the living principles in two bodies which have a perfect affinity to one an- other should not only be a preservative, but a cause of union, is evident; but even in bodies which appear foreign to one another the stimulus of an extraneous body is not produced where union is not intended, and cannot take place, although we should at first suppose that the extraneous stimulus would be given, and suppuration succeedb. This is verified by the eggs of many insects, which are laid under the skin of different animals, producing only the adhesive inflammation in the surrounding parts, by which the skin is thickened and a nidus is formed for the eggs. The Guinea worm, called vena medenensis [Filaria Medinentis, lludolplii], is also a striking instance of this ; for while the animal is endowed with the living principle, it gives but little trouble, yet if killed it gives the stimulus of an extraneous body, which produces suppuration through its whole length. Other instances of the same sort are, > [See the ensuing chapter, and Yol. II. On the Diseases of the Teeth, p. 55; also Boronio, Degli innesti Animali, 1804, in which work an account is given of the trans- ference of portions of the integuments from one part of an animal to another with per- fect success—experiments, it may be observed, which strongly corroborate the testimony „f I'iovaranti, Molinelli, Garengeot, Dionis, Makau, Balfour, Barthelemy, P.edngnel, Sc. respecting the reapplication and subsequent growth of parts, as of the nose, tips of the fingers, Ups, &c. which have been completely severed from the body. The Rhinoplastic or Taliacotian operation has been revived of late years, and applied with considerable success to tiie cure of several species of disease and deformity. 1 hus, Sir Astley Cooper has applied it to the cure of fistulaj in perimeo attended with loss ol substance; Mr. Lynn to the restoration of the under lip, upon whieh the beard afterwards grew ; Mr. Earle to supply the place of the cicatrices of burns; and a great many other surgeons, particularly on the Continent, to the restoration of the nose, cheeks, lips, &c.J b [The author, I apprehend, is mistaken in saying that no stimulus is given in those cases. Generally, if not always, sacs are formed for the lodgement of these ova, just in the same way as for bullets or other extraneous inert substances, by the effusion ol lymph and consolidation of the neighbouring textures.]UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. 257 §. 3. Practical Observations respecting Union by the first In- tention. It is with a view to this principle of union that it has been recom- mended to bring the sides or lips of wounds together; but as the natural elasticity of the parts makes them recede, it has been found necessary to employ art for that purpose. This necessity first suggested the prac- tice of sewing wounds, and afterwards gave rise to various inventions in order to answer this end, such as bandages, sticking-plasters, and ligatures.. Among these, the bandage commonly called the uniting bandage is preferable to all the rest, where it can be employed; but its application is very confined, from being only adapted to parts where a ro er can be used. A piece of sticking-plaster, which has been called the dry suture is more general in its application than the uniting ban- dage, and is therefore preferable to it on many occasions. I can hardly suppose a wound, in any situation, where it may not be applied excepting penetrating wounds, where we wish the inner por- tion of the wound to be closed equally with tbe outer, as in the case of hare-lip. But even in such wounds, if the parts are thick and the wound not large, the sides will seldom recede so far as to make any other means necessary. The dry suture has an advantage over stitches the f thC W°Und t0Sether’ ^ not inflaming ' the parts to which it is applied, and by neither producing in them sup! 1 puration or ulceration, which stitches always do3. When parts, there- the oestrum bovis [CEstrus bovis, Fabriciusl whiM. • , the oestrum tarcndi [CEstrus iarandi (both back and nose'^f re^^eeO^FalrLT’V' which lays its eggs in the back of the reindeer • tl.e , , r. 1 abr,cius], iEssEsns r zr zr:r':1 americamu, Linna-us], which Jays its cans lr ti "V- CX1<° CS Cd n,Igna C^”* jJi: tt;ir“cyo“ ”f sticking-plaster. In operations un.m ,/ . eSpeclaI1y the »'<errupted suture and arcs may thin be with ^ ” u "n,°n by ‘ymph wiK be ^complished, and the ligu- Z ! ?Wlll,0Utpr0ducin8 either suppuration or ulceration, or oncufrenu/ .“T®.”* !®arks' Sutures may be employed in a multitude of other cases XuriblT „ ! ‘Ckmg-plar and ba"da«cs’ «« greatest advantage. The’ irely visionary 1 s"t' Pr‘Kt'te 1>y Plbrac and some of the French academicians are cn- VOL. m.UNION BY THE FIIIST INTENTION. 258 fore, can be brought together, and especially where some force is re- quired for that purpose, from the skin not being in large quantity, the sticking-plaster is certainly the best application. This happens frequently to be the case after the removal of tumours, in amputations, or where the sides of the wound are only to be brought together at one end, as in the hare-lip ; and I think the difference between Mr. Sharp’s cross- stitch, after amputation, as recommended in liis Critical Enquiries, and Mr. Alison’s practice, shows strongly the superiority of the sticking- plaster or dry suture. In those parts of the body where the skin re- cedes more than in others, this treatment becomes most necessary ; and as the scalp probably recedes as little as any, it is therefore seldom ne- cessary to apply anything in wounds of that part. The practice will certainly answer best in superficial wounds, because the bottom is in these cases more within its influence. The sticking-plasters should be laid on in stripes, and these should be at small distances from each other, viz. about a quarter of an inch at most, if the part requires close confinement; but when it does not, they may be at greater distances. This precaution becomes more necessary if the bleeding is not quite stopped, for there should be passages left for the exit of blood, as its accumulation might prevent the union, although this does not always happen. If any extraneous body, such as a liga- ture, should have been left in the wound, suppuration will take place, and the matter should be allowed to vent at some of those openings or spaces between the slips of plaster. I have known a very considerable abscess formed in consequence of this precaution being neglected, by which the whole of the recently united parts has been separated. The interrupted suture, which has generally been recommended in large wounds, is still in use, but seldom proves equal to the intention. This we may reckon to be the only one that deserves the name of su- ture ; it was formerly used, but is now' in a great measure laid aside in practice, not from the impropriety of uniting parts by this process, but from the ineffectual mode of attempting it. In what manner better methods could be contrived, I have not been able to suggest. It is to be understood that the above methods of bringing wounded parts to- gether, in order to unite, are only to be put in practice in such cases as vrill admit of it; for if there was a method known, which in all cases would bring the wounded surfaces into contact, it would in many in- stances be improper, as some wounds are attended with contusion, bj which the parts have been more or less deadened ; in such cases, as was formerly observed, union cannot take place according to our first prin- ciple, and therefore it is improper to attempt it. In many wounds which are not attended with contusion, when we either know or suspect that extraneous bodies have been introduceUK ION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. 059 into the wound, union by the first intention should not be attempted, but they should be allowed to suppurate, in order that the extraneous matter may be expelled. Wounds which are attended with laceration, although free from contusion, cannot always be united by the first in- tention, because it must frequently be impossible to bring the external parts or skin so much in contact as to prevent that inflammation which is naturally produced by exposure. But even in cases of simple lacera- tion, where the external influence is but slight, or can be prevented (as we observed m treating of the compound simple fracture), we find iat union by the first intention often takes place; the blood which fills up the interstices of the lacerated parts having prevented the stimulus o imperfection in them, and preventing suppuration, may afterwards be absorbed. Many operations may be so performed os to admit of parts uniting by the first intention, but the practice should be adopted with great cir- cumspection ; the mode of operating with that view should in all cases ie a secondary and not a primary consideration, which it has unluckily been too often among surgeons. In cases of cancer it is a most dan- gerous attempt at refinement in surgery". In the union of wounded parts by the first intention, it is seldom or never possible to bring them so close together at the exposed edges as to unite them perfectly by these means; such edges are therefore obliged 0 take another method of healing. If kept moist, they will inflame os deep between the cut surfaces as the blood fails in the union, and there suppurate and granulate; but if the blood is allowed to dry and form a scab between and along the cut edges, then inflammation Ld suppu- rat,„a „f hose e m „ ^ md this ^ ^ J? as \\ ill be described by and by. As those effects of accidental injury which can be cured by the first intention call up none of the powers of the constitution to assist in the reparation, it is not the least affected or disturbed by them j the parts t r; u:hrr‘' 7^-u - *- with t .rr. L / natUrC °f th° partS’ t,le ski" '""not be kept in contact II tt cu "u PartS’ ?"the rem°Val °f *hc ^cle, tumours from the axilla, grin, by which the forum"!™ 7 ° effeCted m0re raPidly by inducing suppuration at once, avoided The si " ““ accumu,ation of matter in inconvenient situation* will be celTent advir "e gC°n "" fi"d mB* °,,1Cr OCCasions *>' P^ting in practice the ex "f ",C niode of intention as only s 2UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. 260 arc united by the extravasated blood alone, which was thrown out by the injury, either from the divided vessels, or in consequence of inflam- mation, without a single action taking place, even in the part itself, except the closing or inosculation of the vessels, for the flowing of the blood is to be considered as entirely mechanical. Even in cases where a small degree of inflammation comes on, it is merely a local action, and so inconsiderable, that the constitution is not affected by it, because it is an operation to which the powers belonging to the parts themselves are fully equal. The inflammation may produce a small degree of pain, but the operation of union gives no sensation of any kind whatever. The first and great requisite for the restoration of injured parts is rest, as it allows that action which is necessary for repairing injured parts to go on without interruption; and as injuries often excite more action than is required, rest becomes still more necessary. But rest may be thought to consist merely in abstaining from bodily exercise; this will in general be proper, as most parts of the body will be affected either immediately, as being engaged in the action itself, or intermediately by some connexion with the injured parts. Thus, if the injury be in the limbs, and not such as to prevent walking altogether, still persons should not be allowed to walk ; and we find from the want of this caution, complaints in those parts are commonly longer in recovering than in others; for by keeping the limbs at rest the whole progressive motion is stopped, a thing more disagreeable to the mind than any prevention of motion in the body. If an arm be injured, it is not so; the want of its use is not so distressing to the patient, because he can enjoy locomotion, and may have no objection to keeping his hands quiet. Rest is often admitted from necessity, as in the fracture of a leg, but seldom where motion b only an inconvenience. But it must appear that the rupture of a \ cssel requires union as well as the fracture of a bone, although the vessel having more powers of restoration within itself than the bone, and having less occasional disturbance from other powers, especially than fractures of the lower extremities, yet the rest should be proportioned to the mischief which would follow from the want of it; and this will vary according to the situation of parts. The same principle of rest should apply to every injury, although this is not often allowed to be the case. Thus where an injury produces inability to move a part, especially a joint, it is, from fear of the loss of motion, not only allowed to be moved by its own muscles, which would be the most proper mode, if motion at all was necessary, but is moved by the surgeon, or by his direction, who, not satisfied with mechanical violence, has recourse to stimulants, as warm applications, in order to rouse up the internal action of the parts, and at the very time when261 UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. everything should be kept quiet till restoration of the injury has taken place. In many parts of the body this practice is not so injurious as in others, in which it may be attended with very serious consequences. I hus, when a man has suffered a concussion of the brain, and perhaps a blood-vessel has given way, the mind is deranged, becoming either defective or too acute; and if these symptoms should continue but a little while, the medical assistant applies blisters to remove the effect, either forgetting or not rightly judging the cause. This is even carried further: we hardly see a man taken with all the signs of an apoplexy where a paralysis in some part takes place, or hemiplegia*, but that he is immediately attacked with cordials, stimulants, electricity, etc. Upon a supposition that it is nervous, debility, etc., the poor body is also tor- tured, because it cannot act, the brain not being in a condition to in- fluence the voluntary muscles: we might with exactly the same propriety stimulate the fingers when their muscles were tom to pieces. I must own I never saw one of them which had not an extravasation of blood m the brain when opened, excepting one, who died of a gouty affection in the brain, with symptoms similar to apoplexy fa. Such a case, most probably, would require a very different mode of treatment, therefore when it happens to a gouty man, blisters to the head, feet, etc. would probably be the best practice; but surely this would not be the proper practice in a rupture of a vessel: we ought to bleed at once very largely, especially from the temporal artery, till the patient begins to show si-ns of recovery, and to continue it till he begins to become faintish. We should give saline purges freely, to diminish impetus and promote ab sorption; then great quietness should be enjoined, and as little exercise of body as possible, and especially to avoid coughing and sneezing. * It may be observed here, that the only difference between an apoplexy and hemi- p cgia is m degree, for they both arise from extravasations of blood. t For many years I have been particularly attentive to those who have been attacked j . * pa.ralyt,C Str0ke’ f0rminS a hemiplegia. I have watched them while alive that done m thT “ °PP°rtUnlt-V t0 °Pen them when dead; and in all I found an injury done to the brain, in consequence of the extravasation of blood. I have examined them at all stages, when it was recent, some of weeks’ standing, others of months’ „n I f of years’, in which I saw the progress of reparation. ’ a"d “ *W genendly6true m!!ft h" tT 85 aS ** condcmnati°» of stimulants, although generally true, must be taken with some exceptions. Apoplexy and hemipWia not unfrequently occur without the slightest trace of sanguineous or even of serous effusion sudden 1SC°Verable after death> such cases seemingly depending on simple inanition’ U thU treatment is not necessarily e“262 UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. Plain food should be directed, and but little of it; nor will such cases ever allow of being roused to action, when as much recovered in their texture as nature can accomplish, to the same degree that other parts will admit of or even require. These observations lead us to consider the means of relief, for, besides rest, it often happens that the parts can be relieved from the secondary consequences of the injury, such as inflammation, etc. But this leads to constitutional and local treatment, and will be included in the history of inflammation. I have already mentioned that when the salutary effects above de- scribed take place, the constitution is not in the least affected ; yet it is proper in all cases where much mischief might arise from a failure, to pay a little attention to the constitution. The patient should eat plain food, drink weak liquors, and have the body kept open. This treat- ment, with rest suitable to the case, will in many instances prevent evils that might otherwise occur and prove troublesome. < §.4. Of Scabbing. The operations which I have described prevent inflammation, espe- cially that sort of it which produces suppuration ; but even where the parts are not brought together, so as to admit of union by the first in- tention, nature is always endeavouring to produce the same effect. The blood which is thrown out in consequence of the accident, and which would have united surfaces brought into contact, is in part al- lowed to escape, but by its coagulation on the surface a portion is there retained, which drying and forming a scab*, becomes an obstacle to suppuration. The inflammation in this case may be greater than where union can be effected, but not nearly so great as when suppuration takes place. The blood lying on the fresh surface, although not now alive, and therefore not fitted for union with the living parts underneath, yet precludes the necessity of any further discharge as u covering to the exposed surface, which is one of the uses of pus. This might be considered as the first mode of healing a wound or sore, for it appears to be the natural one, requiring no art; and in the state of parts before mentioned, the complete union is in some degree in- debted to this mode of healing, by uniting the edges that were not or could not be brought iuto close contact, by means of a scab; proper attention to this has, I believe, been too much neglected. * A srab may be defined first, dried blood on a wound, dried pas on a sore, a slough from whatever cause allowed to dry, mucus from an inflamed surface, as in the nose.UNION BY THE FIltST INTENTION. 263 Many wounds ought to be allowed to scab in which this process is now prevented; and this arises, I believe, from the conceit of surgeons who think themselves possessed of powers superior to nature, and there- fore have introduced the practice of making sores of all wounds: as a scab, however, must always be on a surface, it is only on superficial wounds, or on superficial parts of deeper wounds, that scabs can form. How far this practice may be extended I do not know : but there are cases in which it should be discouraged, as where deep-seated ex- traneous bodies have been introduced, as in gun-shot wounds, or where deeper-seated parts have been killed; but it will answer extremely well where the superficies only is deprived of life. Superficial hurts are very common on parts opposite and near to some bone, as on the head, shin-bone, fingers, &c., but more especially on the shin. In all such cases it is better to let them scab, if they seem in- clined, or will admit of it; and, if that should not succeed, they can but suppurate at hist, and no harm is done. In many deep-seated wounds, where all the parts have remained in contact, those underneath will unite much better if the surface be al- lowed to scab. Some compound fractures (more especially where the external wound is very small) should be allowed to heal in the same way: for by permitting the blood to scab upon the wound, either by it- self or when soaked into lint, the parts underneath will unite, the blood under the scab will become vascular, and the union will be complete even where the parts are not in contact. How far this practice may be extended is not yet ascertained. A small wound doing well under this treatment is a common case, and some examples of large wounds are mentioned3, though these do not so generally succeed; but I do not know that there is any danger in the attempt. In many cases, therefore, which seem doubtful, where the external contusion is not very great, or not continued of the same size as in the deeper-seated parts, it may be tried. In some of those cases which have been allowed to scab, the parts injured have appeared ready to go into inflammation : a red circle has been seen all round, produced by the irritation of the scab. Suppuration takes place underneath the scab, and the pus makes its escape from under its edges; but even in such cases, I should be cautious of treating it as a suppurating sore. 1 * [Mr. Wardrop, in his Lectures on Surgery, has related a very remarkable case, in «»uch “the largest wounded surface” he ever beheld, arising from the ablation of a sensed breast, almost entirely healed under a crust of blood, which remained on the sur ace of the wound for upwards of thirty days,—the process of granulation, approxi- mation o the edges, and cicatrization of the wounds going on underneath, with scarcely any irritation or inflammation of the adjacent integuments. See Lancet, 1832-3, ii. 05,VIUNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. 264 should allow it to go on, and occasionally press the scab in order to squeeze out the pus ; for it very often happens that the red circle sur- rounding the scab becomes of a dusky brown, which is the best sign of resolution, the suppuration diminishes, and the whole does well. But if inflammation should proceed further, and seem to be increased by the mode of treatment, it must not be urged further: the scab should be poulticed, in order to soften it, that it may come off easily, and the case should afterwards be treated according to the nature of the sore. This practice succeeds wonderfully well in cases where we find ap- plications of all kinds disagree with the skin. A person shall get a blow on the shin which shall probably deaden a part; a poultice is then often applied; that poultice brings out pimples on the surrounding skin ; these pimples increase and become sores of some breadth; the poultice is in- creased in breadth to cover them; new pimples arise, and so on, till I have seen a whole leg full of those sores. In such cases I always allow the wound to scab ; and, to accomplish this, the best way is to take off the dressings in the morning, and put on trowsers, without stockings, and by the evening the parts are scabbed ; or we may powder them with lapis calaminaris, or chalk finely pow'dered, and desire the patient to go to bed, for the first night, with the trowsers on: where the sore has been only one, I have made a circular pad, and bound that on till the scab was formed. The mode of assisting the cure of wounds by permitting a scab to form is likewise applicable, in some cases, to that species of accident where the parts have not only been lacerated, but deprived of life. If the deadened surface is not allowed to dry or scab, it must separate from the living parts, by which means these will be exposed, and suppuration brought on ; but if the whole can be made to dry, the parts underneath the slough will cicatrize, and the dried slough will at last drop off. I have seen this take place after the application of a caustic, and many other sloughs. Where this can be effected it is the best practice, as it will preclude inflammation and suppuration, which in most cases should be avoided if possible. I have treated many cases in this way, and the living parts underneath have formed a skin as the slough separated. This will more readily take place where the cutis is not deprived of life through its whole substance; for it has a much stronger disposition and greater powers to restore itself than the cellular membrane has to form a new cutis; indeed the skin formed upon entire newr flesh is very dif- ferent from the original cutis ; therefore, as the skin is the part most liable to these accidents, we have the best chance of succeeding in this way when the cutis alone is injured. This practice is the very best for bums or scalds, after the inflam-265 UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. mation has either been considerably prevented, or subdued by proper applications or by time, for which there probably are more remedies than for an inflammation arising from any other cause, as if there was some- thing specific in such causes*. Whatever will abate an inflammation arising from accident will have the same effect upon a scald or a burn; and, from the diversities of applications, we have opportunities of know- ing the best. Oil was long an application, but which has no virtue: spirits of wine has also been long applied, and with very good effect. The common application, which is a soap made with lime-water and oil, seemed to answer better; and now vinegar is strongly recommended, and I think with justice, as far as I have seen. Cold lessens all inflammations, and is a very good application where it can be applied, but it cannot be applied so universally as many others; however, cold has this disadvantage, that the pain, although removed while under the application, occurs with double force when it is removed, much more than from any of the other applications, and the reason is evident, for, as the warmth returns, the pain is increased by the warmth, even in sound parts. On the contrary, it is recommended that when a part is burnt to hold it to the fire as close and as long as it can be held, which undoubtedly lessens the succeeding inflammation, and soon gives ease. I his I have often seen, and probably it can only be accounted for on the principle of producing the act of contraction in the vessels. I have taken a bucket of cold spring water with me, when I have made an attempt on a wasp’s nest, and put my hand into it after having been stung; and while my hand was in the water I felt no pain, but when I took it out the pain was greater than when I put it in. This is not the case with other applications, for their specific virtues are not coun- teracted by any natural circumstance attending the body, and then they can be applied with a continuance to any part where the skin is thin. The blisters commonly break, and so much the better, as the appli- cation can come in contact with the inflamed surface; but as on the hand, foot, fingers, and toes, especially in working people and those who walk much, the blisters seldom break of themselves, they should be pricked with a needle to take off the tension1*. [the intractable suppurative disposition which sometimes ensues ori these injuries, added to the peculiar tendency which is exhibited by the cicatrices of burns to contract and degenerate into a semicartilaginous structure, would seem to indicate a specific mode of irritation. In many of these cases granulations appear to be produced after cicatrization, so as to give rise to a luberculated appearance of the surface of the cicatrix, which raises it above the surrounding parts.] [The advantage arising from the direct application of remedies can never compen- sate for the irritation which inevitably arises from exposure of the sensitive cutis to the atmosphere. The simple evacuation of the bull®, by gently puncturing them, relieves the tension, which is all that is required to be done.]UNION BY TIIE FIRST INTENTION. 26G When the inflammation has gone through its stages, then the parts should be allowed to dry. This in many parts is very awkward, as when a large surface of the body is scalded; for exposure is necessary, and in some parts it is almost impossible, as behind the ears, arm-pits, &c. To keep the cloths from sticking to the parts, it is necessary to powder them with some inoffensive powder, such as lapis calaminaris, very finely powdered chalk, &c.; this does not hinder evaporation, which is the prin- ciple of scabbing ; and if the discharge should be so much at first as to moisten the first powdering, then strew more over the whole till it forms a hard crust. This is hardly necessary on the face, but it w ill rather dry sooner by being at first powdered. In such cases nature will go on infinitely further than if the parts had been disturbed by our applications. §.5. Accidents attended with death in a superficial part. In the foregoing account of injuries done to the body, and of the modes of restoration, we have been so far from considering inflamma- tion as one of them, tliat hitherto it has been inculcated to guard against it with the utmost care. It sometimes, however, takes place, and is one of the modes of restoration when the methods above mentioned fail, as well as a mode of restoring parts under disease. We shall therefore proceed to explain its principle ; but as there are accidents, already mentioned, which often advance to suppuration, I shall now treat of them. Among the divisions of accidents, one is where death is produced in the injured parts, and where inflammation and suppuration must take place, in consequence of the dead parts w'hich separate not being w ithin the power of the former treatment to produce a cure; but it should be remembered that the inflammation, which is the forerunner of suppura- tion in such cases, is not nearly so great as even the inflammation arising from a wound that suppurates. In many accidents, such as bruises, the skin preserves its living pow ers, while the cellular membrane underneath has become dead ; this will aftenvards produce an abscess, and must be treated as abscesses commonly are, remembering that in the present case the abscess, after being opened, wTill be later in acquiring the healing disposition than abscesses commonly are ; the dead cellular membrane must separate, which will come away like wet dirty lint. It sometimes happens that in one part the skin, in another the cel- lular membrane only, shall become dead ; and in such cases I have often observed that the bruised skin sloughs much sooner than the cellular membrane. An abscess, therefore, is frequently forming under the sound skin w hile the other par ts are healing : a circumstance which often dis- appoints both the patient and surgeon.UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. 267 When the wound, or the dead part, is considerable, it is probable the treatment will in general be very proper; because the degree of mis- chief calling up the attention of the surgeon, and producing acquiescence in the patient, he will be induced to submit to whatever may be thought necessary. The best application, at first, will probably be a poultice, ■which should be either simple or medicated, according to the nature of the succeeding inflammation, and continued either till the inflammation has subsided and suppuration come on, sufficient to keep the parts moist, or till the slough has entirely separated, when the sore may be dressed ac- cording to its particular disposition. But such accidents as have a super- ficial part killed (when the slough would readily separate and the parts suppurate kindly) are often treated improperly at first, by the patients themselves applying f riar s balsam, or some such medicines; but these not being within the power of scabbing, inflammation comes on and alarms the patient. A poultice is then commonly applied, which re- moves the first dressing, and the slough appears, which gives a disagree- able appearance to the wound, and it is supposed to be a foul sore. From such an idea various methods are employed, and the application of red precipitate, &c. but with no good effect, and the patient becomes fretted from a sore apparently so trifling being so difficult to heal; but it is impossible that such a sore can heal while there is a slough to separate. It is therefore the surgeon s business to inform himself of the nature of the complaint, to explain it to his patient, who will then become better satisfied, and less uneasy about his own situation. When this piece of slough comes away, the sore will put on an appearance according to the nature of the constitution or of the part, and is to be treated accord- ingly\ * [According to the modern views the modes of union above detailed are always ac- companied by adhesive inflammation, and should therefore have followed the ensuing chapter “ on the fundamental principles of inflammation.” The parts are united, not by the extravasated blood becoming vascular, but by the effusion and organization of coagu- lable lymph. There are two principal objections to the doctrine as laid down by Hunter and supported by some modern physiologists: the first of which is that it assigns two distinct causes for the production of the same phenomenon; and the second that there is an absolute deficiency of direct proof of the organization of the coaguluin, notwith- slanding the frequency of hamorrhagic effusions and die easy manner in which this question may be brought to the test of experiment. 1. There seems not the slightest reason for believing that the mechanism essentially differs by which naturally contiguous parts morbidly adhere and that by which artifi- cially divided parts unite from a principle of coiiservadon, and yet all the phenomena o a lesion in disease uniformly point to the presence of inflammation and the effusion o coagulable lymph. Mr. Hunter indeed freely admits that blood is not necessary to union, but is only one of two modes, at the same time that he considers the coagulable ymph which is poured out in adhesive inflammation as different from the coagulable268 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. CHAPTER II. FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. An animal in perfect health is to be considered as a perfect machine, no part of it appearing naturally weaker than another; yet this is not lymph of the blood. “ It must,” he says, “ have undergone some change arising from the action of the vessels,” which renders it different from “ the coagulating lymph with its common properties. We should infer that this coagulating matter is not simply co- agulating lymph such as it is when circulating, but somewhat different, from having undergone a change in its passage through the inflamed vessels.” When therefore we consider that the fibrin of the blood and the plastic coagulable lymph which is thrown out in inflammation are not the same substances, or at least not in the same state; that the coagulable lymph is the universal medium of adhesion in all cases of disease; that it is thrown out also in all instances of recent wounds; that it is sufficient of itself to effect their union; and that the presence of blood invariably impedes and very often completely prevents this event: when, I say, we consider these circumstances, and take them together, we can scarcely refuse our assent to the position that coagulable lymph is the invariable agent in all cases of adhesion; especially when we reflect, 2. That there is an absolute deficiency of direct proof on the other side; for, whatever some may say, Mr. Hunter always speaks hesitatingly on this point. “I think,” he says, “ that I have been able to inject what I suspected to be the beginning of a vascu- lar formation of the coagulum when it could not receive any vessels from the surround- ing parts;” and in one of his letters to Dr. Jenner, dated July 6, 1777, he says, “ I do not remember Dr. Fordyce’s ever supposing a polypus vascular. I should rather be- lieve he supposed the contrary. You know it comes near my idea that the blood is the bond of union everywhere, but I should very much suspect that a polypus formed after death is not of that kind. I am pretty certain that I have injected them in arteries after amputations, and I have a preparation which shows and supports my theory.’ Now it is very remarkable, considering the frequency of extravasations of blood in the human body, that no unequivocal example of organized coagulum has yet been pro- duced, and it is also material to observe that the examples of this kind which Hunter supposed he possessed were not calculated to carry conviction on such a point, for the injecting pipe being inserted at random into the substance of a coagulum of blood it could scarcely happen othenvise than that the injection should diffuse itself through the substance of the clot, as through a sponge, and thus present some obscure resemblance to organization. Experimentalists have been able to inject, from the adjoining vessels, the organized coagulable lymph within tw enty-four hours after its effusion, but this has never been done in regard to the blood. Effusions of blood have been known to exist in the brain and cellular membrane, and in the cavities of the great vessels and aneu- rismal sacs, for months and even years, and yet so far from becoming organized or identified with the surrounding parts they have invariably acted as foreign bodies, pro- ducing either inflammation and consolidation of the surrounding textures into sacs for their protection, or suppuration for their speedy expulsion. The argument from tumours is much too unsatisfactory to be admitted to have any weight in this question (see note, I-FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 269 strictly true; but still if no relative action, with regard to external mat- ter, was to take place, the machine would, in itself, be tolerably perfect for its own actions. As the animal, however, is employed upon com- mon matter, and therefore liable to accidents, which interrupt the na- tural operations, it becomes absolutely necessary for its continuance that it should possess, within itself, the power of repair; we find it ac- cordingly endowed with powers of repair upon many such occasions; but where parts give way from their own natural actions, this mischief cannot be repaired ; because, if they are not able to sustain their own actions, they cannot recover when diseased or injured. It is found that some structures of parts more readily give way than others, and conse- ■367); and the same may be observed of the facts referred to by the author, (pp. 11!), 243, and I. 236 el seg.) in which coagula of blood were found adherent to the insides of the coats of veins, or to the tunica vaginalis of the testicle. Nothing can be concluded from observations made at so great a distance of time from the occurrence of the injuries, which are just as likely to have occasioned an effusion of lymph as an effusion of blood* Not to mention that if blood had been efTused it would probably not have presented so defined an outline, and would have gravitated to the bottom of the sac. Modern physiologists, however, have brought forward another series of proofs de- rived from the products of organization being found in the centre of recent clots, such as pus, encephaloid matter, the matter of cancer, scrofula, melanosis, &c. A vast variety of these apparent transformations or degenerations of sanguineous coagula into fibrous, osseous, or morbid growths, independently of any connexion with the surrounding parts, have been reported by modern pathologists, (Andral, Clin. Med. iv. 683, and Precis d'Anat. et Path. i. 537. ii. 407 et passim.—Gendrin, Histoire des Inflammations.— eynattd, Jourti. Held, de Med. ii. 84.—Dr. Barrows in Med. Gazette, xvi. 678 Arch Generate de Med. Oct. 1834. p. 223, &c.) while others have not hesitated to ascribe the origin ot plilebohtes to the same source. {Lee, in Cycl. of Pract. Med., art. Veins ) I may observe, however, that these are doubtful explanations of obscure morbid pheno- mena, and cannot with any justice be applied to the establishment of a leading doctrine respecting the reparative processes of the healthy structure. We know enough of the proneness of all organic bodies to undergo various important transformations arising from slight changes of chemical constitution, independently of the actions of vitality to make us hesitate in attributing such changes in the blood to the operations of life ■ especially when there is no single proof of the presence of organization by which this can be supposed to be effected. The delineations of vascular coagula given by Sir ftverard Home, and his speculations on the subject of the formation of blood-vessels bv the evolution of carbonic acid gas, are too vague to be formally combated: the pern/ a ion of loose coagula under the vacuum of an air-pump is not surely to be wondered at and would equally take place in a deal board under similar circumstances. (See ra’ls' lfi18- PP-172- 185- and Preparations in Museum, Nos. 23 11, 23 c. 23 n and Catalogue of Physiological Series, i. 4.) ’ The use of the blood seems to be entirely provisional, and intended merely to serve l Purpose of agglutinating the edges of recent wounds, so as to defend them from the contact of the external air until the coagulable lymph is poured out. The lymph thus nivpft .i°U| lncorPorates Wlth the bloo<l> and in proportion as the former becomes orea- >e atter becomes absorbed. The reader is referred to Chapter III on Adh*l- ^animation for a more particular account of this process.] P270 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. quently are much longer in repair, either when diseased or injured by accident. We also find that different situations, of similar parts, give them advantages or disadvantages with regard to their powers of resto- ration. This is principally known from injuries being done to them, or in consequence of those injuries from the attack of a disease. It is also shown in the common actions of the body or parts, of which, in health, we have comparative trials. We never can know what a thing is incapable of doing till it gives way, which giving way is either a dis- ease, or that which is productive of disease: nor can we know the powers of restoration in the part till it is tried a. As a proof that parts cannot always be proportioned to the action or powers applied which have no action within themselves, but are only acted upon by external force, we adduce the instances of a broken pa- tella or broken tendo Achillis, or a thickening of the valves of the heart. In the first, however, there is commonly another power supcradded be- sides simply the actions of the parts, viz. the body falling and being stopped at once. In the valves of the aorta, however, and the valvula mitralis, we have the best examples, for they become thickened from « [The author’s meaning seems to he, that wheTC derangements of the animal (eco- nomy arise from injuries done by external bodies, or by the undue action of those parts on which depend the animal functions, as contradistinguished from the organic, that there we find the parts possess a power of repairing the injury, or at least show a dis- position to repair it, for they do not always succeed ; and this is certainly true. A blood- vessel may be ruptured in the lungs, or a bronchitis occasioned by too violent exertions of the voice; the eye may be inflamed by employing the organ too long on external objects, or the brain by too great mental exertion; and yet the innate resources of the ceconomy may be found sufficient to right the system under these evils, just in the same manner as if they had arisen from external violence: but let these same derangements proceed from the natural actions of parts performing the organic functions, and then they will be irremediable, for the very spring and source of all power in the system is then vitiated at its fountain-head. The above observations, however, must be taken with many limitations, for we arc seldom able to say what diseases arise from the natural actions of parts, independently external influences. In the instance adduced of thickening of the valves ot the heart, we know that certain external actions tend to produce this lesion; whilst, again, we cannot say that it is one necessarily arising after a time, and therefore natural; for we do not always find it in old people. Scrofula, rickets, fever, inflammation, &c. frequently arise spontaneously, and, as we presume, from some fault in the ordinary organic (unc- tions, and yet the resources of the system prove adequate for the cure, and often increase with the increasing exigencies of the case. In gout, as in many of the exanthemata, the very evil, or materies morbi, which oppresses the system, and which is, at the same time, the product of systemic derangement, becomes the stimulus by which the consti- tution is enabled to throw it off'. Morbid growths and degenerations of structure are probably the only cases really so situated as to be beyond the natural powers of re- covery ; and yet even here it sometimes happens that the parts get rid of the evil m another way, that is, by sloughing, as in cases of cancer.]FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 271 the actions of the parts themselves ; while no such effect takes place in the valves of the pulmonary artery: even an aneurism proves the same. Where there is a difference in structure there are comparative powers to resist the consequences of actions, attended with injury, such as their admitting more or less readily of thickening, ulceration, or mortification, and their comparative powers of restoration. When we compare the powers of restoration in muscle, nerve, cellular membrane, ligament, tendon, bone, etc. with each other, they are found to be very different. Muscles, skin, and probably nerves, possess the greatest powers of that kind; and the cellular membrane, ligament, tendon, bone, etc. the least, and are, in this respect, pretty equal among themselves. How far elastic ligaments have powers of resistance and repair I do not know, but I should suppose they have them in a very considerable degree, from the vessels not giving way so readily as in many of the others". Their comparative powers become pretty evident in most of their dis- eases, but chiefly, I think, in mortification. As mortification is the most simple effect of debility, it gives the comparative powers of parts in the most simple manner. We find that muscles, skin, and often blood-vessels, stand their ground, while they are deprived of their con- * [It is singular that Hunter should attribute to the cellular membrane so low a power of reparation, when in fact it would seem to possess this power in a higher de'- grec t tan any other tissue of the body. Cruveilhier declares it to be the only self- repairing tissue, and that by means of which the actions of restoration are carried on in all the others ; and accordingly, we find that as we descend the animal scale, and the other tissues disappear, leaving the animal more and more largely indebted to the cellular membrane tor Us composition, so does the power of reproducing mutilated parts increase. The power of reparation and reproduction enjoyed by this tissue, as compared with its other vital endowments (which seem to be of the lowest kind), is certainly not a little extraordinary, and seems to rank with the analogous fact of the superior tenacity of life in the lower animals, which obviously increases as the organization becomes more and more simple,-the powers of action not being in them, as our author supposed in regard to the higher animals, any indication of the powers of life (see pp. 3 and 229 mte) but seemingly the reverse; the energy and variety of action of any part or animal being tTon ihi H° ,CnaCity °f ‘ife and thC P°WerS °f rePr°duCti°" ■"* -para ; rh,S f“C aff0rds some ground opinion of Blumenbach, that generation re- production, and reparation are merely to be regarded as modifications of the same process, may perhaps be stated in general terms, that the proneness of parts to fall into r ,r°m "■ "h“ ^ from the ho.lthy Tsculari v"6!.^ pr°POrtIOn t0 each other- a"d -ry nearly in proportion to their and of ani 0m, ,y °‘ °r«aniz!Uion- Thus the inflammation of bone, cartilage, ami of the white tissues generally, is much more intractable and much slower inltl p ogress than that ot the more vascular parts; but then the former parts are much less cZTJV0 T™ i,:flamed’ being- as il were« wisely protected by tbeir want of vas- l*e obnoxious tV1'S t0 Wh'ch’ fr°m lhcir situation and USC9> thc>’ «ould otherwise272 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. necting membrane, which has either sloughed off or ulcerated ; tendons likewise slough off as far us these muscles, and stop there. I have also observed, that difference in the situation of similar struc- tures in the body makes a material difference both in the powers of re- sistance to injuries, and of reparation when injuries have taken place. This difference seems to arise in proportion to the distance of the parts from the heart, or source of the circulation. Thus we see muscles, skin, etc. becoming more readily diseased in the legs than anywhere else, and more slow in their progress towards a cure; but this is not wholly to be laid to the charge of situation or distance from the source of the circulation, some portion of it is to be attributed to position, the legs being depending parts, and those parts which are most distinct happen also to be the most dependent*. We find an horizontal position assist in the repair of such parts, but even then they are not equal in their powers to parts situated about the chest; the difference therefore is principally to be attributed to situation, or distance from the heart. The same disease that showed the comparative powers between the muscle and tendon, shows also that they are equally affected by posi- tion ; thus we see ulceration and mortification taking place in the lower extremity, as such, more readily, and with less powers of repair, than happens in parts near the chest. This is still more the case if the person be tall. This is seen by chang- ing a limb from a horizontal position, in which it was easy, to a depen- dent one, Avherein it feels pain; because the new position increases the length of the column of blood in the veins. I am inclined to belie\e that the retardation of the cure is more owing to a stagnation of the blood in the veins, from the length of the column, than from a deficiency in the motion of the blood in the arteries. As the readiness of a part to fall into disease, and its backwardness to admit of cure, arises horn position, it is in some degree compensated by rest anil a change of the position. These differences in the structure, situation, and position of parts in the body, make, I believe, but little difference in the progress of specific diseases : the venereal disease, however, certainly does not make such progress in bone, tendon, etc. as in the skin ; nor does the cure adtance so rapidly in those parts ; but both these effects may be attributed to another cause, which is, that bones and tendons are more deeply seat oil. 1 believe, however, that position makes no difference iu the disease it- self, although it may have some influence upon the power of cure, and perhaps in all specific diseases, in the progress towards a cure; for a * We find in most authors the whole laid to this, which l shall more fully discuss m the history of opinions.FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 273 venereal sore is always approaching nearer and nearer to the nature of a common sore, and therefore is more and more readily influenced by what influences a common sore. But in diseases for which there is at present no cure, as the cancer, I believe it makes no difference where it is situated, or in what it is placed, except in the case of such parts as have a tendency to such diseases, which no one of the parts above mentioned has more than another. I have so far considered, in the general way, the comparative powers of different structures, of different situations, and of different positions in some parts of the body when affected by disease. Disease is the Only circumstance which exposes these principles to our view; but to see how far the same principle was carried in natural operations, of which the most remarkable is the growth of parts, I made several expe- : riments on fowls. The first was the common experiment of transplant- i ing the spur of a young chicken from its leg to its comb, in which ex- i periment I always found that the spur on the comb, when it took root, grew much faster and became much larger than that left on the leg! This I attributed to the greater power of action in the comb than in the leg. although they are pretty nearly at equal distances from the source 1 ^ie circulation; but probably position also favoured it, as there was :no stagnation in the veins of the head. In the power of producing >such effects in disease, as well as in the growth of parts, I was then desirous to know the comparative degrees between the male and the ; female. I wished also to ascertain if the parts peculiar to the male could grow on the female, and if the parts of a female, on the contrary, would grow on a male. Although I had formerly transplanted the testicles of a cock into the 'abdomeQ of a ken, and they had sometimes taken root there, but not frequently, and then had never come to perfection, yet the experiment could not, from this cause, answer fully the intended purpose ; there is I beheve* a natural rea60n to believe it could not, and the experiment was therefore disregarded*. I took the spur from the leg of a young '°ck’ ^ Placed it in the situation of the spur in the leg of a hen chicken* t took root, the chicken grew to a hen, but at first no spur grew while he sPur that wa* left on the other leg of the cock grew as usual.’ This experiment I have repeated several times in the same summer, with the same effects, which led me to conceive that the spur of a cock would iot grow upon a hen, and that they were, therefore, to be considered es distinct animals, having very distinct powers. In order to ascertain his, I took the spurs of hen chickens and placed them on the legs of • Vide p. 25fi, and book on Teeth, II. 55.' VOL. III. T274 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. young cocks. I found that those which took root grew nearly as fast, and to as large a size as the natural spur on the other leg, which ap- peared to be a contradiction to my other experiments. Upon another examination of my hens, however, I found that the spurs had grown, considerably, although they had taken several years to do it; for I found that the same quantity of growth in the spur of a cock, while on the cock, during one year, was as much as that of the cock’s spur on the hen in the course of three or four years, or as three or four to one; whereas the growth of the hen’s spur on the cock was to that of the proper spur of the cock as [one to two?] two to one. These experiments show that there is an inequality of powers in dif- ferent parts of the same animal, and that the legs have much less than the comb; they also show that there is a material difference in the powers of the male and the female. The spurs of a cock were found to possess powers beyond those of a hen, while at the same time, the one animal as a whole has more powers than the other; yet when I ap- ply these principles to the powers of cure in local diseases of the two sexes in the human race, 1 can hardly say that I have observed any difference. It is to be observed, however, that women commonly live a much more temperate life than men, which certainly must have considerable in- fluence both with regard to resisting and curing diseases. In all complicated animals, among which man is the most complex, the parts are composed of different structures, and we find that in such animals the powers of action of those different structures within them- selves are very different; when they are therefore excited to any com- mon action, the varieties produced should be well known and particu- larly attended to. Besides, every similar structure in different animals does not always act in the same manner. Thus we cannot make a horse vomit; nor can we give many specific diseases which attack the human subject to any other animal, more particularly the morbid poisons. The mode therefore of action in one animal does not implicitly direct to the mode of action in another; nor does the same structure in the same animal always act in the same way at all times : it acts at various times in a way similar to the same structure in various animals; and, besides, the same structure varies its action in different situations in the same animal. Besides, the exterior actions of life make a very ma- terial difference in the internal actions of animals, or in the excitement of disease, either universally or locally; for there are parts which can- not bear one mode of lif , while there are other parts which cannot bear another,—parts and mode of life being in opposition with each other. A great many of these varieties depend upon the difference in the na- tural strength and weakness of the parts; but as those vary very con-FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 275 aider&bly in different habits, so the varieties are increased; and like- wise, as many occurrences in life produce the principle of strength or weakness, we have those varieties still more increased, as well as dis- ease. These observations, as heads, I shall treat more fully, but not as my principal subject, attending to them only so far as they are connected with inflammation and may illustrate the varieties in that action. §. 1. Of the different Causes which increase and diminish the susceptibility for Inflammation either in the whole body or in parts. Susceptibility for inflammation may be said to have two causes, the one original, the other acquired. The original constitutes a part of the animal (economy, and is probably inexplicable. Of the acquired it is probable that climate and modes of life may tend considerably either to diminish or increase the susceptibility for inflammation. The influence, however, of climate may not be so great as it com- monly appears to be, for it is generally accompanied by modes of life that are not suited to others; and if we consider how much less per- nicious many climates are now than they were formerly, arising from the mode of living being different, we may be led to allow less influence to climate; and, on the other hand, if we consider how diseases become multiplied and varied in the same climate, we shall see that climate alone is not attended with so much variety as may have been supposed It is observed by some of the ablest physicians of this day that the fever called inflammatory is now not so common in this country as it was for- merly represented to have been; that it is now seldom that in fevers they are obliged to have recourse to the lancet, at least to that excess which is described by authors in former times. They are now more obliged to have recourse to cordials than evacuations, and indeed the disease called the putrid fever and putrid sore throat are but of late date I rememberr when the tat called Fothergill’, acre throat, became he first published upon it and altered the mode of practice. I remember when practitioners uniformly bled in putrid ferers, but sign, of debility and want of success made them alter their practice. Whether the same difference takes place in inflammation I do not know, but I suspect that it does in some degree, for I am inclined to believe that fever and inflammation are very nearly allied, that is that either will be according to the constitution, which is not the case with specific diseases, excepting in their common modes of action which t 2276 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. consist either in fever or inflammation ; but I believe we have much less occasion for evacuations in inflammation than there was formerly; the lancet therefore in inflammation, and also purgatives, are much more laid aside. How far climate varies the constitution, so as to alter the nature of diseases, I do not at present know ; but it would appear from Dr. Blane’s account that inflammation is hardly a disease in the West Indies. How far an alteration in the mode of life is the cause of this diffe- rence I will not pretend to say, but certainly the way of life is very much altered. We certainly live now more fully than what they did formerly: we may be said to live above par. At the full stretch of living, therefore, when disease attacks us, our powers cannot be excited further, and we sink, so as to require being supported and kept up to that mode of life to which we have been accustomed. A kind of constant state and variety of mind may often alter consti- tutions so much as to alter the mode of diseased action, which is much more common in some countries than others. We may be pretty cer- tain that this state of mind often produces the inflammation of the gout. Probably there is but little power in art to correct the susceptibility of inflammation; however, if the susceptibility of the body be similar to that of the mind it ought to be in some degree corrected by art. The mind is corrected by reason, together with habit, but the body can only have the last employed upon it: it might be made less susceptible by the immediate causes coming slowly upon it, or by avoiding those causes, and even acting in diametrical opposition to them. Phis will a least answer in the acquired susceptibilities. The acquired susceptibility for inflammation, or indeed for any other disease as it is acquired by art or habit, may be lessened simply by a cessation of those habits ; and the habit is of any particular kind, which is always ascertainable, then the habit of the contrary is to be used, which must also be ascertainable. Strength and weakness are the opposites of each other, and therefore must have very different effects in disease. They have very different powers in resisting disease, in their mode of action, and also m their readiness to terminate that action. Strength, probably, under every circumstance, produces good effects, or at least it is always more m the power of management by art than weakness. I can conceive, however, that too much strength might act with too much power, becoming un- manageable under disease that excites action. _ In inflammation when the constitution is strong then it will be com- monly the most manageable, for strength lessens irritability. But m every kind of constitution inflammation will be the most manageable where the power and the action are pretty well proportioned; but asFUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 277 every part of the body has not equal strength, these proportions cannot be the same in every part of the same constitution. According to this idea of strength, the following parts, viz. muscles, cellular membrane, and skin, and more so in proportion as they are nearer to the source of the circulation, will be most manageable in inflammation and its con- sequences, because they are stronger in their powers of action than the other parts of the body. The other parts, as bone, tendon, ligament, &c., fall into an inflammation which is less in the power of art to manage, because, though the constitution is good, yet they have less powers within themselves, and therefore are attended with the feeling of their own weakness; and I believe they affect the constitution more readily than the former, because the constitution is more affected by local dis- ease when the parts have less power within themselves of doing well, and the effects, if bad, on the constitution reflect a backwardness on the little powers they have. Strength and weakness of the constitu- tion, or of parts, are synonymous terms with a greater or less quantity of animal life, or living principle joined with powers of action®. * [See note, p. 271. It is not easy to fix the exact import of the words “ too much strength” as used by our author. Properly, as applied to the constitution, strength should mean not only a vigorous but a well-balanced action of the various organs of the body amongst themselves ; and, as applied to parts, a just equalization of the va- rious functions carried on in individual parts, such as the nervous, vascular, secretive, absorbent, nutritive, &c. In this sense the strength can never be in excess; but pro- bably our author simply intended to express a tendency to excess of action of some one function or organ over that of another, which forms no part of strength. It is an im- portant practical truth, however, that persons who habitually live “above par” are the worst subjects to cope with any serious shock to the system; a tendency to diffuse cel- lular inflammation, gangrene, and low typhoid symptoms being a usual result of the effort made by the constitution under such circumstances to reestablish itself. As to parts “ having a feeling of their own weakness,” it is obvious that such expres- sions explain nothing when examined into, but contribute to keep true knowledge out by deceiving us with the semblance of it. If we find that the constitution is more in- jured by a disease affecting some structures than others, it should be our business to inquire strictly into the various facts connected with the two cases, with a view of drawing some general deductions from them, and not be satisfied with allegorizing the vital powers. At present I believe we must be content to regard it as an ultimate fact that parts affect the constitution in proportion to the weakness of their reparative powers; the whole system being, as it were, called upon to cooperate and unite its strength in support of the feeble part when it comes to be diseased. I would observe, by the way, that such cases as these mark more than any others the distinction between mere physiology and pathology. The most exact knowledge of the anatomical and physical properties of tho tissues, of their morbid appearances after death, and of their functions in a state of health, would afford little or no clue to the actual relations which subsist between them and the constitution in a state of disease. The mere physiologist might predict with tolerable certainty the leading consequences of inflammation affecting the vital organs, but he would be totally at a loss to conjecture278 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. The inflammation, if in vital parts, will be still leas manageable; for although the parts themselves may have pretty strong powers, yet the constitution, and the natural operations of universal health, become so much affected that no salutary effect can so readily take place, and therefore the disease becomes less manageable. If the vital part is the stomach, or such as the stomach readily sympathises with, inflammation in such parts will be still less manageable, for no operation can go on well, cither in the stomach, or in other parts where this viscus is affected, as the powers of restoration become weaker than ever. In weak constitutions, although the inflammation be in parts which admit of the most salutary operations in the time of the disease, and in situations the most favourable to restoration after disease, yet the operations of inflammation are proportionably more backward as to their salutary effects in such constitutions, and more or less according to the nature of the parts affected, which I shall now consider more fully. §. 2. Effects of strength or tcea/cness of Constitution, and of Parts, while under Inflammation. Whatever is to be the consequence of injuries, especially inflammation, is produced much more readily in a strong constitution than in a weak one. A wound, for instance, made upon a person of a healthy constitu- tion and sound parts will unite almost at once : it admits readily of a union by the first intention. A greater strength of constitution and of parts admits of resolution, while in the adhesive state of inflammation, very readily, and therefore tends much to prevent the suppurative in- flammation from taking place, for it gives a better disposition to heal by the adhesive; so that the union of parts by the first intention, the in- flammation and resolution, as well as the readiness to change from the one to the other, according as the preceding is prevented, depends equally upon the strength and health of the constitution and parts inflamed. We may also observe that a greater strength and soundness of the con- stitution or parts inflamed, when the inflammation has got beyond the stage of resolution and has assumed the disposition for suppuration, hastens on inflammation and suppuration, and also brings it soon to a termination, while at the same time the matter is brought more quickly the effects of disease affecting the different tissues (as, for example, the serous) without actual observation; a remark equally applicable to the therapeutic part of the art, and worthy of the attention of those who build the knowledge of their profession too exclu- sively on the investigation of diseased appearances and on mere anatomical and physio- logical acquirements-]FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 279 to the skin by ulceration. Whatever therefore is the step which nature is to take, whenever an injury is done or a necessity for inflammation has taken place, it is performed with readiness and facility in strong constitutions and parts. Weakness of constitution and weakness of parts are supposed to be the immediate cause of most tedious or chronic diseases. It appears to be often used as a general term, as have also nervous, bilious, to denote anything for which we cannot well account, and to which I am certain there has been affixed no precise meaning. Every action that is not acute, especially a mild continuation of some of the symptoms of a former violent disease, is called weakness. Thus a gleet is called a weakness, fluor albus is called a weakness, diarrhoea is called a weak- ness : none of which I conceive simply to arise from weakness, for I believe that weakness seldom or never becomes an immediate cause of disease or action of any kind; but it often becomes the predisposing cause of disease, many diseases not taking place except where weakness is an attendant, as agues, scrofula, nervous, &c., none of which are simple weakness; and it may continue many diseases when they have already taken place. This is, I think, very evident in many diseases which would terminate well if there was strength in the constitution to perform the right actions. However, where there is a strong suscepti- bility for any one disease, in which weakness might also become a pre- disposing cause, I can believe that in such cases weakness, especially if suddenly brought on, may become an immediate cause of that disease : as, for instance, a man may, from a wound or any other cause, have a strong tendency to a locked jaw. If you bleed that man freely it is a thousand to one but that a locked jaw comes on : weakness produces a consciousness of its own want of powers, or incapacity, which produces increased action, that even proceeds the length of unnatural actions, called nervous8. These effects are no less visible in acute diseases in [The author here seems to depart from the definition of strength and weakness given in p. 277. Weakness as opposed to strength should be considered merely as a less degree of energy of all the vital actions, while the balance between them is still equal, the degree of energy being generally in proportion to the vascularity, and activity of the circulation. In this view a weak constitution may be as healthy as a strong one, as in a man and a woman, and probably be even less exposed to attacks of disease; for a watch may last as long as a clock, provided it be taken equal care of, and keep the truest time of the two. W eakness, however, is used in another sense to signify the loss of balance between the vital actions, as in the present paragraph. Thus the loss of blood, by weakening the energy of the circulation without proportionally diminishing the innervation, may predispose to locked jaw ; and probably most predispositions, whether natural or ac- quired, are of this kind.]280 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. such constitutions, which include accidents or violence of all kinds; for they run into too violent action which is not of a salutary kind, and therefore may be called unnatural diseased action. When a wound is made in a person of a weak habit there is a great backwardness in the two cut surfaces to unite by the first intention, therefore inflammation takes place if there be strength of constitution to produce it, which is not always the case, so that in such habits inflam- mation is more likely to be a consequence) but this does not arise from a greater readiness to inflammation in the habit, but from a wrant of power and disposition to heal, which renders inflammation necessary. However, in this case the want of powers or disposition to unite may partly depend upon a different principle from that of weak parts or solids : it is probable that the blood of people of weak habits is weak in its living principle, which it therefore very soon loses upon extrai-asa* tion, so as to become unfit for a bond of union, by which it degenerates into an extraneous body, and therefore the suppurative inflammation must Like place if there be strength to produce it. In weak habits and diseased parts inflammation is slow in any of its salutary effects, and is hardly capable of either producing the adhesive or suppurative inflammation. If they should take place, it is but im- perfectly, and the inflamed parts surrounding the suppurative surfaces are hardly capable of resolution, but continue inflamed ; we even find in many constitutions, where the animal powers are very much weak- ened, that, instead of their readily running into inflammation, it is hardly possible to promote it even from a breach of continuity in the solids, which in most other cases is surest of being followed by inflammation : such constitutions are in general those which are dropsical. I have seen several cases where the power has been so weak that the wound, after tapping, has not united by the first intention, nor has even acquired the adhesive state of inflammation, and has admitted water to pass through it from the abdomen for several weeks without the peritoneal inflam- mation being excited. In the same dropsical habits I have seen scari- fications in the legs or feet not inflame, so that the cells were not united but continued to discharge the water for many weeks. In such cases of extreme weakness this total want of inflammation would appear to be a salutary effect; for in many dropsical cases, where the parts have powers to inflame, but not sufficient to go through the different stages of the inflammation, and at last resolve as in healthy constitutions, the inflammation generally produces a total loss of animal powers and the part mortifies, which often produces death in the whole, so that in such gases the parts only act to destroy themselves*. As a further proof * Vide paper on the recovery of drowned people, in Vol. IV.FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 281 that debility is often the cause of increased inflammation, in consequence of any violence, and often the cause of mortification, is plainly shown in Mr. Dick’s account of dropsies among the troops in the East Indies. (Duncans Edin. Med. Com., x. 207.) In the first year of the attack in any man he durst not venture to scarify the legs ; but when they were attacked with the same disease the year following, which was often the case, whenever he attempted to scarify the legs a violent inflammation and mortification were the consequence. He was in this second attack obliged to have recourse to strengtheners ; and we may observe that, in the case of tapping, if the constitution is irritable, the cavity of the abdomen commonly feels the effect, and inflammation of the peritoneum and death is the consequence. As the effect which this inflammation has upon the constitution is by sympathy, it must be in proportion to the readiness with which the constitution assumes that action. This susceptibility is stronger in some constitutions than in others ; and every constitution is more sus- ceptible of sympathy with some parts of the body than with others. The kind of constitution which is least affected by this inflammation is that which is in general most healthy, where sympathy hardly takes place. This happens to be the case with such constitutions as can most readily perform all the different operations with ease; and when the parts inflamed are able to manage their own business they thereby affect the constitution less; for we shall find that a constitution may be affected by a local disease merely because it is beyond the power of the part to cure itself. But it is to be observed that constitutions in full vigour, or which have not been in the smallest degree accustomed to local disease, take the alarm much more readily than those which are not in such full health, or which have been accustomed to local disease. Thus, if a man in perfect health gets a very bad compound fracture in the leg, or has his leg taken off, either for this fracture or in consequence of any other ac- cident, he stands a much worse chance of recovery than one who has been accustomed to a local disease. Even the man with the compound fracture will do much better if his leg is not taken off till the first sym- ptoms are over* ; or at least we may be certain that the symptoms aris- ing from the amputation will not be nearly so great as those that arise [I he author, I apprehend, does not mean to advocate delay where the operation will certainly sooner or later become unavoidable, but only to state the fact that those who have long suffered from some local irritation generally bear operations the best. I may mention that the doctrine of delay is now universally disallowed by the best authori- ties, foreign and English, the most favourable time for operating being as soon after the constitution has rallied from the nervous impression caused by the accident as possible.]282 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. at first from the fracture, or would have arisen from the immediate am- putation. This would appear to be a contradiction to the above posi- tion ; but, upon an accurate investigation, I think it may be accounted for; for, first, I do not look upon full health as the best condition to re- sist disease \ Disease is a state of body which requires a medium: health brooks disease ill, and full health is often above par; persons in full health are too often at the full stretch of action, and cannot bear an in- crease, especially when diseased ; and, as I before observed, it is a new impression on the constitution, and till it be in some degree accustomed to local disease it is less able to bear such as is violent; besides, the re- moval of a diseased part which the constitution has been accustomed to, and which is rather fretting the constitution, is adding less violence than the removal of a sound part in perfect harmony with the consti- tution ; the difference, however, is not wholly owing to that cause, for the circumstance of a constitution being accustomed to a mode of life, &c. which it is to continue, makes a considerable difference. §.3. Of Parts of the Body most susceptible of the three dif- ferent Inflammations to be treated of. All parts of the body are susceptible of inflammation, although not all equally so ; nor will all parts of the body admit readily of the three different kinds of inflammation I mean to treat of, some parts admitting readily of one only, others of two, and others of all the three; which difference appears to be according to the situation of the inflamed parts in the body, and also the nature of the parts inflamed. The cellular membrane the first. The cellular membrane free from the adipose appears to be more susceptible of the adhesive inflammation 1 [Exemption from disease may be compatible to a certain extent with a predomi- nating action of some one system over another, as of the vascular or nervous; yet such constitutions are ill adapted to contend with disease, and ought not in truth to be called healthy. The inhabitants of hot climates are prone to nervous diseases, as tetanus, &c., but are little obnoxious to inflammation; while during the Peninsular war it was found that the Portuguese, from being less disposed to inflammation, recovered from in- juries which the English would certainly have died from, probably from the latter using a fuller and more stimulating diet, although both might previously have enjoyed equal apparent good health. The justness of Hunter’s observation is remarkably exemplified in the case of dray- men, bargemen, and such class of persons, whose habits of severe labour lead them to the habitual excessive use of fermented liquors and an inordinate diet, the consequence of which generally is that they form the worst class of patients in our public hospitals, and speedily succumb under severe operations.]FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 283 I than the adipose membrane, and much more readily passes into the sup-' : purative. Whether this arises from surfaces inflaming more readily than other parts I will not pretend to say. Thus we see that the cellular membrane connecting parts together as muscles, and the cellular mem- brane connecting the adipose to muscles, easily inflames and runs rea- dily into suppuration, and as it were separates the muscles from their lateral connexion, and even separates the adipose from the muscles, while the skin and adipose membrane shall only be highly inflamed, and : the matter so formed must produce ulceration through all this adipose ; membrane to get to the skin, and then through the skin, in which last mentioned parts it is much more tedious ; ulceration therefore does not - so readily take place in those parts as it does in the common connecting membrane. Muscles, nerves, and blood-vessels are parts which nature wishes to retain, and the adipose membrane contains a substance which is properly no part of the animal, viz. oil: it may therefore be more difficult for this part to be absorbed than what are properly the parts of t the animal itself*. As a deficiency in the power to heal becomes a stimulus or an incite- ment to inflammation, we find that similar parts, in proportion as they are removed from the source of the circulation, such as the lower extre- mities, are more ready to inflame than others not so circumstanced; and what adds to this backwardness is their being depending parts, ' which adds to the incitement. The deeper-seated parts of the body, and more especially the vital. * [I believe it may be laid down generally that parts are disposed to suppurate in proportion as they are lax in structure, by which the blood-vessels are deprived of their due support and distended and ruptured with great facility. A sort of scale marking the suppurative tendency might be formed on this principle, commencing with the mu- cous membranes, and passing on through cellular membrane, adipose membrane, skin the free surfaces of serous membranes, the internal tunics of blood-vessels, the internal parenchymatous viscera, fibrous membranes, cartilage, bone, &c. The first step in the formation of an abscess seems to be the softening and breaking down of the tissues by the exudation of a mixture of serum, coagulable lymph, and blood; so that if an abscess be opened early it will be found to contain rather a grumous bloody serum, together with broken down cellular membrane, than pure pus such as would afterwards be formed; and therefore the more the natural structure of any part favours this exudation and vas- cular distension the more readily will it suppurate. This at least seems to be a nearer approach to the true proximate cause why the cellular membrane goes more easily into suppuration than muscles, nerves, and blood-vessels, than the ascription of a “ desire of nature to retain them, which at most is only the final cause allegorically expressed; nor is it even this as regards the adipose matter, which is, in truth, very easily absorbed and redeposited, as we daily witness in alternate fatness and leanness. The gradual breaking up of the pulmonary tissue in inflammation of the lungs, and conversion of it into a diffuse suppurative mass as contrasted with the other firmer viscera, stronelv fa- vour* the above view.}284 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. very readily admit of the adhesive inflammation, which is proved by dis- sections ; for we hardly ever open a human subject where there are not in the circumscribed cavities considerable adhesions ; and most probably many in the common cellular membrane, if they were equally visible. The deeper-seated parts, however, do not in common so readily pass into the suppurative inflammation ; and this readiness to accept of the adhesive most probably becomes a cause why the suppurative inflam- mation does not so readily take place. But if the inflammation comes on at once, with great violence, it would appear to pass almost at once over the adhesive immediately to the suppurative action; or perhaps where it may appear to have done this there may be an erysipelatous disposition; for although it is not the disposition of the erysipelatous inflammation to suppurate, yet it has a greater backwardness to produce adhesions. This effect we often find take place in the abdomen, in the thorax, &c., and I have already mentioned that I suspect the erysipe- latous inflammation does, in some degree, reverse the common rules of the common inflammation, by being more ready to suppurate in deep- seated parts than in the superficial, and extend much further towards the centre of the body. I suspect too that the coverings of the brain, viz. pia and dura mater, have something of this disposition. They ap- pear to suppurate very readily, or with very little inflammation; for from a slight blow on the head we find these membranes much oftener suppurate than we should from a similar blow on the shin-bone: for instance, a blow on this bone will only produce suppuration on the ex- ternal surface, very seldom in its internal cavity; but a blow on the head that shall not even produce the adhesive inflammation in the scalp shall make those membranes suppurate®. Inflammation, wherever situated, is always more violent on that side of the point of inflammation next to the external surface. This effect we often find take place in the abdomen, in the thorax, &c., and I have already mentioned that I suspect inflammation, wherever situated, if there be a continuity of parts between it and the external surface, will be greater on that side next to the external surface of the part than towards the centre of the part. This also equally takes place in inflammation, although close to the different outlets of the body, and is probably most easily demonstrated in them. Thus, for instance, if an inflammation comes on in the socket of a tooth at its root, inflammation will not take place on the inside of the jaw, but towards the outside ; and if it is be- * [XI,is may be accounted for by the jar which the cranium receives, which often leads to the immediate separation of the dura mater from its internal surface. A blow on the dead body will produce the same effect.]FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 285 yond the union of the lips with the gum it will attack the skin over the inflamed part, while all the internal parts, such as the gums on both sides, but principally on the inside and tongue, if in the lower jaw, shall be perfectly sound. If an inflammation attacks the cellular membrane on the outside of the gut near the anus, although the gut is in contact with the inflamed part, yet the inflammation extends to the skin of the buttock, while the gut remains pretty free from inflammation. If an inflammation attacks the peritonmum covering an intestine, and if adhesions between it and the peritonaeum lining the abdomen are a consequence, the inflammation immediately passes through the abdomi- nal muscles towards the skin, while the proper coats of the intestines shall in most cases remain sound ; however, this is not always the case, although much more commonly so than the reverse. We see the same thing in the obstruction of the natural passage of the tears, called fis- tula lacrymalis, for there the sac and skin ulcerate on the inner angle of the eye, while the inside of the nose defends itself by becoming thicker, so much so in many cases as to stop the cavity of the nose and unite with the septum, which has been the cause of the failure of the operation for the fistula lacrymalis. We even find that if an abscess forms in a frontal sinus from an obstruction in its duct that the matter makes its way through the frontal bone externally, instead of getting into the nose. The same observations are applicable to abscesses in the antrum, which are common cases; and indeed, if we observe accurately, we shall find that nature rather defends such parts as are either deeper seated or on the inside of outlets, as will be explained hereafter. The specific qualities in diseases also tend more rapidly to the skin than to the deeper-seated parts, except the cancer; although even in this disease the progress towards the superficies is more quick than its pro- gress towards the centre. The venereal has something of the same dis- position with the cancer, although not so much. In short, this is a law in nature, and it probably is upon the same principle by which vege- tables always approach the surface of the earth. That this is a general principle in vegetation requires no illustration, but what is the immediate cause is not so easily determined. I con- ceived it might be the light, not warmth, for the ground is often warmer than the air or surface into which vegetables are often growing. To as- certain this as far as I could by experiment, I took a tub, about eighteen inches deep, and about two wide, and filled it with fine mould, in which I planted some beans and peas; their eyes were placed in various di- rections, and over the surface was spread a close-meshed net. The mouth of this tub was turned down, was raised about three feet from286 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. the ground, and was suspended between two posts. Round the tub, and over its bottom, which was uppermost, were placed wet straw, mats, &c. to take off any influence the sun or air might have upon its con- tents, and a small hole was bored in its bottom, to which was fixed a small long tube that came through the straw. This was intended for pouring some water, if I found the earth get dry, into the tub. Under the mouth of the tub I placed looking-glasses, in such a way that the light was thrown upon the mouth of the tub, or surface of the earth. The weather was fine, so that through the whole day there was the re- flection of the light from the looking-glasses upon the surface of the mould, which was much more powerful than daylight without the di- rect rays of the sun. This I continued till I conceived that the beans and peas had grown some length, but not finding their tops coming down through the surface of the mould, I examined the contents of the tub, and found that they had all grown upwards towards the bottom of the tub, and that in those whose eyes had been placed downwards the young shoot had turned round so as to arise up. As one experiment leads to another, I wished to see how a bean would grow if kept in a constant rotatory motion. For this purpose I put some earth in a basket, having the shape of a cylinder, and about a foot diameter, with the two ends of wood for greater strength, through the centre of which I fixed an axis or spindle ; in this earth I planted a bean, about half way between the surface and axis, with its eye to the surface. The basket was laid across the mouth of a large tub, with the ends of the spindle resting on the edges of the tub, which were fitted to one another so as to allow of easy motion. Round the basket was rolled some small cord, to the end of which was suspended a box, water tight; into this was put lead, so as almost to make it sink in water, and which was sufficient to turn the basket round in the open air. This large tub was filled with water, and the box placed upon it, and the spindle with the basket placed across the mouth of the tub ; a very small hole was bored at the lower end of the tub, which allowed the water to escape, but very slowly; as the water sunk in the tub the box descended, and as the box descended the basket was turned round. This tub took about twelve hours in emptying, and during that time the spindle with the basket only turned about one and a half. The tub was repeatedly filled, and when I conceived the bean might have grown some inches, if it had grown at all, I examined it, and found it had grown as much as if it had been planted in the common ground, but it had no particular direction but that of passing in a straight line from the bean, which was at first towards the circumference, the direction in which it was planted; but in its course it had met with a small stone, which had turned it intoFUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 287 the direction of the axis, and it had gone on in a straight line in that direction. Here, as there was no fixed inducement to grow in any one direction, the bean grew in a straight line, in that direction given it by chance*. This circumstance of the deeper-seated parts not so readily taking on the suppurative inflammation as those which are superficial, is shown in cases where extraneous bodies irritate any parts; for we find that ex- traneous bodies are in general capable of producing inflammation, but if these extraneous bodies are deeply seated, they may remain for years without doing more than producing the adhesive inflammation, by which means they are inclosed in a cyst, and only give some uneasiness; or if they are such as can be made to change their situation by the actions of the body upon them, as pins and needles, or from gravity, as is the case sometimes with bullets, then the parts through which they pass seem not to be much altered or disturbed* ; but if the same body was nearer to the skin it would produce suppuration. This is proved by the cases that have occurred of people swallowing pins, needles, etc.: they have been found to travel almost over the whole body, without producing any effect, except in some situations exciting some sensation; but when they have come near to the skin, the very same substance has generally produced suppuration. This principle shows itself very remarkably in the cattle which feed in bleaching fields ; there is not one of these killed without having their stomachs, etc. stuck full of pins, and no seeming inconvenience takes place, for they appear to be healthy, and fatten as readily as other cattle. However, it is to be remarked that these pins are not found in the fourth or digesting stomach, therefore do not give that disturbance to the con- stitution that might be expected. It is probable that these cases of • This circumstance of such bodies moving in various directions, and not towards the surface, is a proof of the truth of my principle, for their motion arises from a me- chanical cause, and is ruled by it; whichever way it is directed they must move, whether by gravitation, as is the case with bullets, or by the mechanical pressure of the part upon the two ends of the pin, which will determine the motion towards the point. * [The experiments of Mr. Knight render it probable that the directions taken by the plumula and radicle of seeds is referable alone to gravitation, and may always be counteracted by centrifugal force. When beans were planted on the circumference of a wheel, which was made to perform 150 vertical revolutions in a minute, the radicles invariably receded from the axis, whilst the germens sought the centre. The same thing also happened when the motion was horizontal, but with this difference, that when the number of revolutions was 250 in a minute the direction of the radicle was ten de- grees below the horizon, but forty-five degrees below this line when the revolutions were reduced to 80, the germens always taking the opposite direction at a corresponding angle. (Phil. Trans. 1806, p. 99, and 1811, p. 209.) There seems, therefore, no ground for the analogy in the text.]288 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. pins, etc. owe their want of power in producing suppuration, not en- tirely to situation but in some degree to the nature of the substance, metals perhaps not having the power of irritation beyond the adhesive, for when the adhesive has taken place the part appears to be satisfied. This appears also to be the case with the introduction of glass, even in superficial parts : a piece of glass shall enter the skin just deep enough to bury itself; inflammation shall come on; the wound in the skin, if brought together, shall heal by the first intention; and the inflammation shall not exceed the adhesive, but rather degenerate into the disposition for forming a sac, by which means a sac is formed round the glass, and no disturbance is given to the irritability of the parts. This was the case with Mr. Knight, apothecary, who had a piece of glass three fourths of an inch long run into the palm of his hand, and remained there for ten weeks, without any further inconvenience than retarding the motion of the hand, and sometimes giving a pricking pain, when the sac was made to press upon the points of the glass ; this insensibility, however, arises from a sac being formed With such properties, but it cannot be assigned as a cause in the case of bodies moving as pins. Whether this fact, of external parts assuming the suppurative in- flammation more readily than the internal, arises from unknown pro- perties in the parts themselves, or from circumstances which attend situation, such as heat, cold, etc., is not easily determined ; but whatever be the cause, the effects are good, as many situations of inflammation, viz. the internal, would prove dangerous if the parts were always, or often to suppurate ; of two evils, nature chooses the least; while, on the other hand, when near the external surface, it becomes the least evil to produce suppuration, in order to get rid of the extraneous matter. Ac- cidents may be assigned as one cause of this frequency upon the exter- nal surfaces, but the cases of pins above mentioned (which is accident), show, that even when it arises from accident, the parts near the exter- nal surface much more readily suppurate; and in all cases arising from the constitution, or spontaneous, the external inflammations exceed the internal in number, violence, and extent. §.4. Of the two Parts that have the Orders of Inflammation respecting Priority inverted. I formerly divided the surfaces capable of taking on inflammation into two; the first of these was the cellular membrane in general, together with the whole circumscribed cavities ; the second was all the outlets in the body, commonly called mucous membranes; for instance, all thefundamental principles of inflammation. 289 ducts of glands, and the alimentary canal. The first order of parts, 1 have already observed, generally, if not always, takes the adhesive first, in the true inflammation, and then all the three inflammations in suc- cession ; for the adhesive is immediately admitted in the cellular mem- brane and circumscribed cavities, to exclude, if possible, suppuration, where suppuration, and of course ulceration, would prove hurtful. In the following parts the order of inflammation, with regard to its being adhesive or suppurative, appears to be inverted ; as the ulcerative is a consequence either of the adhesive or of the suppurative inflam- mation, it is ruled equally by both. In internal canals*, where adhe- sions in most cases would prove hurtful, the parts run immediately into the suppurative inflammation, the adhesive inflammation in common being excluded ; such parts are the internal surfaces of the eyelids, nose, mouth, trachea, air-cells of the lungs, oesophagus, stomach, intestines] pelvis of the kidneys, ureters, bladder, urethra, uterus, vagina, and in- ec all the ducts and outlets of the organs of secretion, which all these parts mentioned may be in some degree reckoned, and which are com- monly called mucous membranes. In such parts, if the inflammation is ut slight, the suppurative in common takes place, which is almost im- mediate, as it is not retarded by the adhesive stage, which accounts for the quickness of suppuration of these parts in many cases. I have known a violent discharge of pus come on the surface of the urethra only a few hours after contamination. These facts are shown us every 'day in vanous inflammations of those parts, and particularly in the go- norrhoea, cold in the nose, lungs, intestines, etc. The matter from such is generally not called true matter, or purulent, but is often so, if not al- ways, having all the characters of pus; however, this will be according o circumstances. Since those surfaces are, in general, secreting sui° faces suppuration would appear to be only a change in the secretion; and 1 think I have visibly seen, or could visibly trace, the one change gradually leading into the other: the different parts, therefore, of which he pus is composed will not always be in the same proportion, so that the matter will seem to vary from true matter towards that of the comm tlQn Qf the part> and ^ ^ But th.s doeg not aker • to our n 7’ * * C°mm°n t£> mattCr from a SOTe i *wd ev«m common to our ordinary secretions. If this inflammation, which produced suppuration on those surfaces,' Z TTfT- V" ’ °r haS eomethinff of erysipelatous disposition, e find that it moves from the suppurative to the adhesive, and throws * tHe coaSulatmg lymph. I have seen this in the intestines, often * I make a distinction between an internal cavity and a canal; they are very differs t 'their llscs>andals<t their mode of action in disease are very different ‘ 11X* u290 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. on the inside of intestines that had been strangulated in a hernia. I have been able also to produce it on the inside of the vagina of an ass, by injecting a strong solution of corrosive sublimate. But if of the erysipelatous kind, these surfaces will take on the adhesive action imme- diately or at first. This is evidently the case in what is called the ul- cerous sore throat; I have seen it in the trachea; I have seen it thrown up from the lungs in branches ; I have seen it in the pelves of the kidneys, ureters, bladder, and urethra. This is contrary to the mode of action of the erysipelatous inflammation in the cellular membrane and circum- scribed cavities, for there it hardly produces adhesions; and when it suppurates the suppuration takes place first. The common inflammation and the erysipelatous woidd seem to change actions similar to the adhesive and the suppurative, according as they are changed to places of different dispositions, never acting in the same way under the same apparent circumstances, and, therefore, something specifically different. As the adhesive inflammation is commonly ex- cluded from sucli surfaces in the true inflammation, so of course is the ulcerative in such cases; for it is in general only as a consequence of the adhesive and suppurative having previously taken place, with the confinement of pus, that ulceration becomes necessary ; for the ulcerative in such cases is a consequence of a stimulus arising from pressure from with in a. In inflammation we seldom pay attention to more than the continued ’ and the universal sympathy ; how far the contiguous takes place without j * [It may generally be concluded that the inflammation is of a specific or unhealthy kind, either when coagulable lymph is thrown out in the first instance on mucous canals, j as in thrush, croup, diptherite, dysentery, &c., or when, in all other structures, the puri- i form secretion is not first preceded by an exudation of lymph, as in erysipelas, diffuse | cdlular inflammation, purulent depositions after severe accidents, &c. The employ- ] merit of the term erysipelatous to designate every species of spreading inflammation and : almost every deviation from the standard of health is extremely vague, and lias been ] objected to with much propriety by the author (see infra). Whether erysipelas can j take place indifferently in any of the structures of the body has been a much-mooted j point: certainly the distinctive symptoms will generally if not always be wanting. Even in the mucous membranes, which exhibit so striking an analogy in structure and functions to the skin, there is a marked difference in the general characters of their in- j flammatory affections, not to mention that they evince no disposition whatever to travel j from one to the other, but generally keep perfectly distinct. The membranes of the \ brain indeed are often more or less affected in extensive erysipelas of the head and face, 1 but this is rather attributable in my opinion to the near proximity of the sympathising organ to the scene of inflammatory excitement than to any proper extension of the in- ’ flammation itself. The retropulsion of erysipelas, like that of every other external inflammation, is apt to induce inflammation internally, but there is not the least proof to show that this new action has the specific character oiTlie original disease.]fundamental principles of inflammation. 291 adhesions, further than sensation, I am not certain. I believe it never produces inflammation without them; for we may observe, that a tes- ticle shall he considerably inflamed, and the scrotum not in the least affected. The scrotum shall even inflame and slough off7, without the testicle being affected till death, or exposure takes place in the tuni a vaginalis; then it becomes an exposed or imperfect surface, similar to the opening or application of a caustic in the hydrocele; but I know that contiguous sympathy produces a nervous tenderness or sensibility expressed by the word sore. Thus I have seen complaints in the viscera of he abdomen produce a vast tenderness in the skin of the abdomen • ani also complaints of the lungs produce a tenderness in the skin of the crest opposite to the complaint. The remote sympathy sometimes takes place when particular parts are inflamed. The continued is that sympathy which increases the inflammatory nohT Tr U, meanS the inflan,mafcion spreads beyond the irritating o nt. L his becomes more a subject of surgery than any of the sym- pathies, because ,t increases the local complaint, and it takes its pecu- mm infl I C°nStl1tUti0n at Iar»e’ as wel1 m from the nature of the parts inflamed; as much can be learned from it in an inflammation as from any other symptom. °n as The universal sympathy, or constitutional, is whore the whole con- stitution feels the local diseased action. §■ 5. The natural came of the Adhesive Inflammation being limited. P will be kept in proportion longer confined Tl.... surroundimr'relM mat*0I1i ^ “ lyl”I,l“ltic Sla"d “ n°* **»> »p by the CellU‘” membrane “ inflammation has made some con. Stair 17eraent’, a"d *** U b°Sins to Tb“» »lymphatic inflame and the surrounding parts shall not, till other pro- l 2292 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. cesses besides inflammation are going on, viz. suppuration; this, how- ever, will be more or less, according to the constitution, for if it has a strong susceptibility for the erysipelatous, the dissimilar parts will more readily sympathize with the seat of the disease. Thus the investing membranes have not this sympathetic connexion with the parts which they either cover or line; nor have the parts either covering the invest- ing membrane, or lined by it, any sympathizing affection with it in the adhesive stages of inflammation. Thus the peritoneum is both a lining and a covering, and so is the pleura. If the peritoneum which lines the cavity of the abdomen inflames, its inflammation does not affect the pa- rietes of the abdomen ; or if the peritoneum covering any of the viscera is inflamed, it does not affect the viscera. Thus the peritoneum shall be universally inflamed, as in the puerperal fever, yet the parietes of the abdomen and the proper coats of the intestines shall not be affected ; on the other hand, if the parietes of the abdomen or the proper coats of the intestines are inflamed, the peritoneum shall not be affected. The same principle will lead to distinctions between an inflammation of the lungs and that of the pleura; but I suspect that the reticular or connecting substance, which joins the air-cells of the lungs, has a greater sympathetic affection with the air-cells, or reciprocally with each other, than the before-mentioned parts; and this may arise from the thinness of the air-cells. And it is also upon the same principle that inflamma- tion of the pia mater is seldom continued into the substance of the brain, although the pia mater may be in some degree considered as a continu- ation of the same vessels. Contiguity of parts does not communicate inflammation. Thus when an intestine is inflamed the inflammation is not communicated to the peritoneum, lining the abdomen, although in contact; but I have already observed it produces somewhat of a soreness, even to the external touch; but if continuity by adhesions takes place,then inflammation will be con- tinued from the one into the other. The second cause of the limitation of inflammation is simple contact. I have already observed, that exposure of internal surfaces becomes an immediate cause of inflammation ; and when it extends further than the surface of exposure, it is then by continued sympathy only, and that a whole cavity, if wholly exposed, will wholly acquire the inflammation; but we may now observe, that although a cavity is opened and so far rendered imperfect, yet simple contact of its sides renders it perfect again, and sets bounds to the immediate cause. To explain this further, we may observe that there is no such thing in an animal as empty space, exclusive of outlets or reservoirs, which cannot be reckoned internal or circumscribed cavities, for they are perfect by not being such. Everyfundamental principles of inflammation. 293 part of the body is either connected by u continuation of one part into that of another, or by simple contact. This takes place equally, either in the common cellular membrane, or in the circumscribed cavities ; for if a wound is made either into the cellular membrane, or into a circum- scribed cavity, we find that the surfaces of both, beyond the cut edges, are naturally and generally in contact with one another, for without this union by the first intention would not take place, either in cir- cumscribed cavities, or in the common cellular membrane. To explain this position, let me suppose a case. If we make a wound into the cavity of the belly, and in a sound state of those parts, we shall find that every viscus is in contact with some other viscus, and that the whole inside of the peritoneum is in contact with the viscera in general; so that no space is unfilled while this con- tact of parts remains. If this wound is not allowed to heal by the first intention, stdl we shall find that no inflammation will take place, or ex- tend further than the attachment of those parts to the cut edges, except what is owing to continued sympathy. If this was not the case, every part of the same cavity must inflame, because every part would be equally imperfect; for if this contact was removed, upon the receiving of the wound, or at any time afterwards, the whole cavity must inflame, because every part is equally under the same predicament with regard to exposure. The same tiling would take place in the common cellular membrane if those cells were not (in a natural state) in contact. In- flammation, in case of wounds, would as readily extend over the surface of each cell, as air does through the cavity of each cell when blown into it. Now this simple and natural contact of natural parts keeps off the inflammation beyond the cut edges of exposure; and inflammation only takes place at this part to preserve this contact, as also to serve as a basis for the future operations. 1 his, I apprehend, is upon the principle of contiguous sympathy, two surfaces being simply in contact, mutually agreeing not to inflame; or perhaps, more properly expressed, by being in contact there is a mu- tual harmony which prevents their being excited to inflammation. This circumstance is a reason why we should not attempt to bring circum- scribed cavities to universal suppuration, by simply opening them and allowing them to collapse; for we may be pretty certain that union only will take place at the exposed edges of contact, which excludes the ge- neral cavity, and which is the reason why the operation for the radical cure in the hydrocele often fails. If, on the other hand, this natural contact of parts did not preserve the whole beyond the cut edges, then "c must ^ow that the cavity is under the same predicament with the cut edges; and if the cut edges inflame, so must the whole.294 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. In cases of spontaneous inflammation of circumscribed cavities, we find where this contact is completest, that the inflammation and its con- sequences are the least; for instance, in the abdomen, in the cases of the peritoneal inflammations, the inflammation is the greatest where the surfaces are not so well opposed to one another, viz. in the angle be- tween any of the two viscera. This fact of simple contact being sufficient to exclude the irritation for inflammation, was well illustrated in a woman who had the Caesarian operation performed upon her, where a wound of eight inches long was made into the cavity of the abdomen to extract the child. After the child was extracted, the wound could not be brought exactly together; therefore, so far gave rise to a peritoneal inflammation; but the belly collapsing, and falling on its contents, they all came in contact as be- fore, and the woman living twenty-six hours, gave time for the inflam- matory irritation to take place. After death it was found that the in- testines were united to the peritoneum all round the wound for about half an inch in breadth, and the surface of the intestines which lay un- attached and exposed at the bottom of the wound were inflamed, while every other viscus, as well as the peritoneum, beyond the adhesions, were free from inflammation. Ulceration does not seem to obey this law so much, and the reason is, that ulceration is a second operation, and is preceded by inflammation, so that pus is brought equally through every part, if equally susceptible of ulceration, which all parts are not, although not depending upon their being similar or dissimilar. Thus a muscle or artery will not ulcerate so readily as cellular membrane; but if pus was formed on the inside of an artery, or in the centre of a muscle, they would ulcerate very readily, and the ulceration would not stop, or remain stationary, when it came to the cellular membrane, but would go on; if pus, too, be formed in a lymphatic gland, ulceration would go on in the parts between it and the external surface as fast as it did in the gland, if not faster, because inflammation would have gone before, and, as it were, assimilated the parts, and all from this cause, viz. being equally disposed to ulcerate. The cause of the spreading of inflammation is sympathetic; but the cause of ulceration is immediate*. • [Difference of structure has nearly as marked an effect in many instances in resist- ing the extension of ulceration as it has that of inflammation. This is very little observed in the progress of an abscess towards the surface, because the extension of ulceration in this case depends on the continued presence of the immediate cause, viz. the distension or pressure from behind, and therefore takes place as it were necessarily; whereas, when it depends on sympathy alone, as in ulceration of the bowels, stomach, bladder, Ac., nothing is more common than to sec the muscular fibres clean dissected by the ttlcera-FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 295 §. 6. Of Inflammation—its Stages. I have given the most simple idea I can form of an injury done to a part, with the natural, immediate, and consequent means of restoration. I have also treated of cases where they become a little more complicated, requiring the aid of art as a substitute for the simplicity of the first. The action of the parts is not necessary in either of these, except that of the blood forming its vessels and other solid parts, and becoming of the nature of the parts in which it is extravasated. But I took notice, [1.] that the violence done was often so great, or that restoration did not take place so readily, as in all cases to exclude irritation ; we had, there • fore, an action in such cases taking place in the parts called inflamma- tion ; and [2.] that this action assisted in the restoration by producing an extravasation of the coagulating lymph, which became the second bond of union. I have also stated what may be called the natural tendency to inflammation, to serve as a kind of leading principle. We shall find that inflammation may arise from very different causes, and often without any apparent cause, and that its operations are far more extensive than simply the act of producing union in parts divided by violence; for it more commonly produces union in whole parts or in natural separations, such as the common cellular membrane, large cir- cumscribed cavities, joints, etc., because such surfaces are not naturally disposed to unite, but only in consequence of some uncommon action being produced; and although these adhesions are unnatural, yet that tendency of the parts to admit of this union becomes a species of cure. It is in consequence of the parts taking on, in some degree, the same modfe of action which divided parts do when brought in contact, that in such cases suppuration is precluded. As inflammation often arises from disease, its salutary purposes are in many instances not so evident, although they may finally take effect; as it .likewise takes place in disease, or becomes the ultimate in disease where it did not begin in it, as in the scrofula, cancer, &c. and some indo- lent tumours; on these accounts too its salutary purposes are sometimes not obvious. However, upon the whole, as inflammation is an action live process, and pertinaciously resisting its further progress; or should these equally g’ne via; to the ulcerative action, still the peritoneal covering (not so thick, perhaps, as a piece of common writing-paper,) is interposed, to arrest its further progress, and pre- vent the fecal contents escaping into the peritoneal cavity. The same fact is also ob- servable in superficial ulcerations of the skin, in abscesses of the lungs, brain, &c. It is very unusual to find the dura mater or pleura perforated in such eases.]296 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. produced for the restoration of the most simple injury in sound parts, which goes beyond the power of union by the first intention, wre must look upon it in such instances as one of the most simple operations in nature, whatever it may be when arising from disease or in diseased parts. Inflammation is to be considered only as a disturbed state of parts, which requires a new but salutary mode of action to restore them to that state wherein a natural mode of action alone is necessary. From such a view of the subject therefore inflammation in itself is not to be considered as a disease, but as a salutary operation consequent either to some violence or some disease °. But this same operation can and does vary : it is often carried much further, even in sound parts, than to accomplish union, producing a very different effect, and forming a very different species of discharge from the former; instead of uniting and confining the parts, rather separating and exposing them, which process is called suppuration, and varies with circumstances. Howrever, even this in sound parts leads to a cure, although in another or second- ary way; and in disease, where it can alter the diseased mode of ac- tion, it likewise leads to a cure; but where it cannot accomplish that salutary purpose, as in the cancer, scrofula, venereal disease, &c., it does mischief. This operation of the body, termed inflammation, requires our great- est attention, for it is one of the most common and most extensive in its effects of any in the animal body: it is both very extensive in its causes, and it becomes itself the cause of many local effects both salu- tary and diseased. It has its different stages, in which it produces more immediately its different effects, which are local, such as adhesions, suppuration, and ulceration, and often death in the part inflamed, together wdth second- ary complaints which are universal, as fever, nervous affections; and when in parts that cannot heal, or in constitutions which are too wTeak, the hectic fever, next dissolution, or universal death. However, by its forming those adhesions, it often precludes the necessity of suppuration ; and also entirely prevents many local diseases where probably suppura- tion would be the consequence if such adhesions had not taken place, with all the train of consequences of suppuration, such as abscesses, fis- tula?, diseased bones, &c., which are prevented by it. It is also one of the modes of action in many specific diseases, and in morbid affections pro- ceeding from poisons. Inflammation is not only occasionally the cause of diseases, but it is * [This is too groat refinement. The definition of disease ought certainly to include all such deviations from the natural state as either produce suffering or endanger life.]fundamental principles of inflammation. 297 often a mode of cure, since it frequently produces a resolution of indu- rated parts, by changing the diseased action into a salutary one, if ca- pable of resolution. By these extensive powers inflammation becomes the first principle in surgery. In one point of view it may be considered as a disease in itself, where it takes place without any visible cause, and it may be looked upon as an increase of the mischief when it is a consequence of some injur}'; but in either case it is a sign of powers, and of necessary powers : for if a part under the influence of such irritation as should naturally excite inflammation had either no powers, or no disposition to exert them, the consequences would be much worse, for mortification would probably take place. I intend at present to consider the most common causes and effects of inflammation, together with the end pro- posed by nature in producing it, and the use to which it can be applied in surgery. It becomes therefore necessary, first, to begin with describ- ing its most simple forms, together with its general effects, and then to particularize as I proceed. Inflammation has several well-marked local peculiarities by which it is distinguished. I shall call by the name of inflammation whatever produces the following local effects, viz. pain, swelling, and redness, in a given time, and these dependent on, or the effects of, one immediate cause. Inflammation appears capable of arising from three causes, which may be called remote. First, from some accidental force applied to a part, mjiking a wound or bruise which cannot recover itself unless by inflam- mation. Such violence at least is naturally capable of exciting it. Secondly, from some irritation which does not destroy the texture of parts, but simply the natural actions, as many irritations, such as pres- sure, friction, heat, cold, blisters, pungent applications, and often fevers of every kind. Thirdly, from a particular disposition in parts them- selves, as boils arising spontaneously, without the constitution having been preconcerned; so little so, as to have given the idea that such in- flammations were healthy. Each of these will be of a kind peculiar to the constitution ; but from whatever cause inflammation arises, it ap- pears to be nearly the same in all, for in all it is an effect intended to bring about a reinstatement of the parts nearly to their natural functions. Inflammation may first be divided into two kinds as first principles, viz. the healthy and the unhealthy. The healthy probably consists only of one kind, not being divisible but into its different stages, and being that which will always attend a healthy constitution or part, is rather to be considered as a restorative action than a diseased one, and would rather appear to be an effect of a stimulus than an irritation. The unhealthy298 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. admits of vast variety, (diseases being almost numberless,) and is that which always attends an unhealthy constitution or part, and will be ac- cording to the kind of health in that constitution or part, but princi- pally according to the constitution; however, many parts naturally have a tendency to run into inflammations of particular kinds. Most of those arising from the nature of the constitution are, I conceive, in most cases, if not in all, called, although erroneously, the erysipelatous in- flammation ; which will be further taken notice of. The simple act of inflammation cannot be called specific, for it is a uniform or simple action in itself; but it may have peculiarities or spe- cific actions superadded. Inflammation is either single or compound : it may be called single when it has only one mode of action in the part inflamed, as in its first stages ; compound, when attended with another mode of action, or when it produces other effects. Inflammation is capable of producing three different effects, viz. ad- hesions of the parts inflamed, suppuration in the parts, and ulceration of those parts; which I have called the adhesive, the suppurative, and the ulcerative inflammation. The last, or ulcerative, is properly speak- ing, only a secondary effect of inflammation, not being performed by the same vessels; however, it is possible it may keep up inflammation, as it always keeps up a species of violence, viz. a destruction of the parts. The two first do not take place in the same vessels at the same time, but succeed one another, although all the three effects may exist at the same time in the different parts of the same inflammation. I have placed the adhesive first in order, although it is not always so; for, with respect to the priority of those three actions of inflammation, it depends principally upon the nature of the parts, together with the degrees of violence of the inflammation. To explain this more fully we 9hall first divide the body, respecting inflammation, into two parts, viz. the cellular membrane, or the body in general, together with the circumscribed cavities, as belonging to the first; and then all the outlets of the body, as the second. We shall treat of each according to the nature of the parts, and of the inflamma- tion joined, and observe their effects, which will show that the common effects of one, as to priority, may be changed into those of the others, and become second or third, according to the nature of the parts, the inflammation, and its degree of violence. We may observe that inflammation, but more especially the suppu- rative, in the first order of parts, more readily takes place nearer to the surface of the body than in parts more deeply seated ; and as a proof of this observation it lias been formerly observed that tumors, and evenFUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 290 extraneous bodies, will make their way from some deeper-seated part to the skin, hut no inflammation shall take place till they arrive near the skin. But this circumstance will he more fully described when I treat on suppuration. It does not seem necessary that both surfaces which are to be united should be in a state of inflammation for the purpose of effecting a union : ■ it appears only necessary that one should be in such a state, which is ! to furnish the materials, viz. to throw out the coagulating lymph, and the opposite uninflamed surface accepts simply of the union. Nor is it 1 even necessary that either surface should be in a state of inflammation to admit of union ; for I just observed that extravasated blood produces a union [union by the first intention] without inflammation, and we ' often find adhesions of parts which can hardly be called inflamed. Thus a truss applied to a rupture will produce adhesions, as has been observed, although it may sit very easily. In describing inflammation it will be found that the principal theory of inflammation will be introduced in the adhesive stages; for in the first- - stated parts it appears only preparatory to the suppurative either in pre- venting or promoting it. When inflammation takes place in the first order of parts it is com- : monly the adhesive ; but it will be according to circumstances whether • the suppurative or the ulcerative follows first. That either the one or the other should follow seems to arise in many cases from an increase of the inflammation; but it sometimes happens that the suppurative - takes place almost immediately, and probably from two causes : the first is the intensity of the inflammation, its exceeding the adhesive almost immediately ; the second, an inflammation of a different kind, where the adhesive makes no part of the inflammation, and suppuration takes place in the first instance. I suspect that the erysipelatous inflammation has very little of the adhesive in its nature, and therefore probably these in- flammations are in some degree of this nature, and go into suppuration without adhesions. In some cases ulcerations must take place prior to suppuration, as when an inflammation happens on a surface, viz. the skin, as, for instance, in a chancre, and with such violence as is neces- sary for suppuration to take place, then ulceration must begin first, so as to expose internal surfaces for suppuration; but in the parts of the -second order, viz. internal canals or ducts, it is the suppurative inflam- mation which most readily takes place first; but if carried further the adhesive follows, as will be more fully explained hereafter. When it is an inflammation of the first order of parts, the suppurative succeeds the adhesive, and the ulcerative may be said to be an action superadded to the suppurative, arising out of effects produced by the first, now be-300 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. coming new causes, the suppurative naturally taking place in the time of the first, and the ulcerative in consequence of the suppurative, which has called forth the action of another system of vessels, the absorbents; all of which may be reckoned as three different modes of action arising from the first irritation or cause. The adhesive as also the suppurative inflammation, either in the first or second orders of parts, with their varieties, may have a principle super- added which does not in the least alter their inflammatory mode of ac- tion, which still continues to go on. This principle is some specific disposition from scrofula or poisons, as the venereal, smallpox, &c. These three different modes of action, viz. the adhesive, the suppu- rative, and the ulcerative, when carried on perfectly, are generally the effects of a good constitution, seldom attending the unhealthy: they are Avhat I would call common inflammation. I have already observed that common inflammation either takes place in parts that constitute the largest part of an animal, -which are all the circumscribed cavities, all the cellular membrane, and the substance of every part, the two last of -which are the most universal; or upon in- terned canals or outlets, which are, in common, onlv excretory ducts. I have also observed that whenever any extraneous matter is to be discharged, whether already existing, as matter already formed, or a ball lodged, &c., or only preparatory to its formation, such as inflammation that has a disposition to suppurate, the inflammation is always greatest and extends furthest on that side next to the skin: for instance, sup- pose that a man is shot in the thigh, that the ball passes through to within an inch or two of the opposite side, and that it has not deadened any part for an inch or two of the last part of its passage so as to allow this part to unite, we shall find if that ball excites inflammation it will not be along its passage, where we should (without knowing the prin- ciple) have mostly expected it, but the inflammation will commence on that side next to the opposite skin that has not in the least been hurt. If the ball passes quite through, and a piece of cloth is carried in, which lies in the middle between the two orifices; if the passage is pretty superficial, say only an inch distant from the skin where the cloth lies, but which is two or three inches from either orifice, we shall find that the inflammation for its exit will not lead to either orifice, but directly across to the skina. [That is, tile ball or the piece-of cloth produces the greatest inflammation in that part where the stimulus of its presence is most felt, which is in the immediate spot where it is lodged, while the external parts being more extensible than the internal, the in- flammation and ulceration necessarily take the former direction. This fact of the greater ; extensibility of the external parts removes much of the mystery which has been gene-FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 301 As the adhesive inflammation precedes the suppurative in every part of the body except the outlets, as was observed, and the suppurative commonly precedes the ulcerative, excepting on an external surface, the propriety of following likewise this order of nature in treating of them will appear evident, especially as each succeeding inflammation is in some measure illustrated by that which has gone before. §. 7- Of the different degrees and different kinds of Inflammation. Inflammation will in general be in proportion to the exciting cause (in which may be included the mischief done), the constitution, and the nature of the part; in all which, as there is great variety, so must there be in the inflammations. The degrees of inflammation will be more in the adhesive than in the suppurative, for the adhesive may have all the degrees of violence between the most slight inflammation and suppura- tion ; but the suppurative is a more fixed or determined quantity,' for when got to a certain point it takes a new action, and inflammation ceases. However, we have not always inflammation producing sup- puration when it has arrived to a certain degree of violence, for in some it often goes beyond that point which would produce it in others, and in such cases there is no disposition for suppuration, and it seems to become stationary, for neither has it any disposition for resolution. Spontaneous inflammations which are to suppurate are more violent than those inflammations arising in consequence of an operation or ac- cident, which also must produce suppuration; and those inflammations from either operations or accidents, if they have not produced death in the part operated upon, are more violent and of greater extent than those where death in the part has been produced. The inflammation of a boil or abscess is more violent, and commonly more extensive than that in consequence of a cut, or even an amputa- tion of a leg. The inflammation in consequence of a cut or amputa- tion of a leg will be more violent than that from a gun-shot wound, or from the application of a caustic, which produces death in the part, and even although more parts have been destroyed by these means ; neither do specific diseases, except the gout, produce so violent inflammation. rally thought to attach to the approach of abscesses or foreign bodies to the surface of tue body Distension as pressure must produce very nearly the same mechanical state of parts.]o02 fundamental principles of inflammation. nor are they commonly so painful as what I have called the common ■ inflammation. It may appear not to be an easy matter to account for all those dif- ferences: however, it is possible that in the spontaneous inflammation there is more occasion for inflammation than suppuration; the inflam- mation being the only action which is necessary to produce the ultimate effect, as, for instance, in the gout: in this disease the inflammation is the only thing necessary for its action, and the inflammation runs much higher than many others do which produce suppuration*. The spon- taneous inflammation arises often from disease, which probably makes the parts more susceptible of inflammation. When inflammation arises from the irritation of death in a part, let the cause of that effect be what it will, whether mechanical, as in bruises, gun-shot wounds, &c., or by chemical means, as caustic, &c., the inflam- mation is late in coming on, and in comparison with the others gentle ■when come on. However, in many bruises, even where the death of parts has taken place, we have inflammation quick and violent; but then the living parts have also suffered, and have suffered much more than if simply wounded. In many bruises we also have inflammations quick and violent, even where death has been produced in a part; but then death does not take place in all the hurt parts, as in many gun-shot wounds, such as those attended with fractured bones, in which the sur- rounding parts were only hurt so far as to bring on irritation and not death. If caustics do not act with vigour they will irritate so as to bring on the inflammation sooner than if they had killed the part quickly8. Irritating substances, when of no specific kind, produce inflammation sooner than other visible causes of inflammation. If of a specific kind, then the time, sort, and violence [of inflammation] will be according to that kind. But irritating applications must be continued for some time to produce violent inflammation. These differences are easily accounted for; quick death does not irritate the part killed, and the contiguous living part, not being itself hurt, is only irritated to get rid of the dead • It is a curious circumstance in the gout, that although it is attended with all the common effects of the adhesive inflammation, as considerable swelling, 8rc., which swell- ing must arise from extravasation of the coagulating lymph, yet adhesions do not seem to be the intention, for none are produced ; the lymph is in general taken up, and chnlk- stone or tophaceous matter [urate of soda] put in its place. * [This is also well exemplified in the application of ligatures for the removal of piles, n®vi materni, enlarged tonsils, &c. The pain and inflammation consequent on such operations are immensely increased by not tightening the ligature with a degree of force sufficient entirely to cut off all vascular communication.!FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 303 part. A wound is a quick irritation of a living part, so that it inflames more readily and more violently according to the quantity of irritation; but that cannot be of long standing, as nature sets about procuring re- lief. But when irritating substances are applied, the part inflames quickly, according to their power of irritation ; and if they are continued, nature is not allowed to relieve herself, but is constantly teazed, by which means the inflammation becomes also violent. I need hardly mention that fever is often the cause of local inflam- mation : we see this happen every day. These causes, and of course the inflammation, are of two kinds : one which may be called accidental, as inflammation arising in consequence of common fever; the others are more determined, depending upon the species of fever, which may be called specific, as the smallpox, chickenpox, &c. These inflammations, in consequence of fever, are commonly supposed to be critical; but I very much doubt the truth of this opinion. The smallpox and chicken- pox are, perhaps, the strongest instances of an appearance in proof of this opinion, and perhaps the measles as a critical inflammation might be produced as another; but I believe that it is peculiar to these dis- eases to form inflammation and sores. We must allow, however, it is not absolutely necessary, even in them, that abscesses should be formed, viz. the pock, to lessen or carry off the fever; for the specific fever in them cannot exist beyond a certain time, even although no eruption appears. But I think that in the cases of the smallpox, chickenpox, and the measles, those diseases often prove the contrary to that which is sup- posed to be the case; for we have large abscesses as often formed after those diseases as after any other, which are commonly supposed to be the settling of the fever in this part, but which are equally accidental with those from common fever, and therefore we cannot suppose that those abscesses are critical in such diseases, because they are either common abscesses or scrofulous; for no one disease can have two di- stinct and different critical inflammations. In further confirmation of my opinion, those inflammations are found to be not in the least of the nature of the disease which produces them, so little so in most cases as to be truly specific of another kind, viz. the scrofulous. Now we certainly find it difficult to conceive one universal specific disease, as the smallpox, &c., producing a local one of another specific disposition to cure the first, or terminating in another disease, whose mode of action is totally different; and the more so when we see that the same local diseases can and do arise from every kind of fever. To ascertain this fact, therefore, we are to look out for that disposition, or that mode of action, common to all fevers which are capable of producing this effect.304 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. with the disposition of the constitution or of the part at tiie time; and we shall find that this kind of inflammation depends upon the constitu- tion and part at the time, and not upon any peculiarity in the fever, as is also the case with the smallpox eruptions, viz. they partake of the constitution. . 1 hlS common principle in fever, of producing local inflammation, is the simple fever itself abstracted from every peculiarity. A fever, in all cases or of all kinds, is a disturbed action, like inflammation itself, which may be joined with any specific mode of action, and this disturbed action will always be according to the constitution, even when joined with any specific quality. The inflammatory fever is, perhaps, the most simple, because it is a simple fever on a constitution having no peculiarity of disposition. The putrid fever (as it is called) is perhaps no more than the same fever upon a constitution that has a peculiarity of action under that disturbance, and therefore it proceeds according to that peculi- arity. This is well illustrated in specific diseases; for instance, in the smallpox. I he smallpox produces a fever, viz. a disturbed action, joined with the specific; and although this action is produced by the same poison in two different persons, yet the one shall be the true inflammatory, and the other the putrid, the erysipelatous, &c. Now the same poison can have but one mode of irritating, abstracted from its poisonous quality, and this one mode produces fever; and it also can have but one mode of ir- ritating in respect of its poisonous quality, but that fever, abstracted from its poisonous quality, will be according to the nature of the con- stitution at the time, the poison being capable of producing nothing but a fever joined with its specific poison, and that specific quality takes place equally on every kind of constitution, the poison itself having no power of affecting the constitution in one person differently from that of another; it can only act, in a greater or less degree, according to the susceptibility of the person for such irritation. Now since every fever, " hether common or specific, is equally capable of producing local in- flammation, which,may be carried the length of suppuration, and as it cannot with any degree of reason be called critical in specific fevers, we ha\ e no reason for supposing that those suppurations are critical in the common fever, or in those levers which are of no specific kind. It was a leading doctrine of Boerhaave that inflammation consisted in an obstruction of the minute vessels, in consequence of too great a spissitude of the fluids, and his practice consisted in seeking for attenu- ants ; but this theory seems to be almost entirely exploded. This was certainly too confined an idea of all the causes of inflammation, and re- duced all inflammations to one species. The only distinction betweenFUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 305 inflammations must have arisen from the nature of the obstruction, if there could be any ; but this could never account for the action of many specific diseases and poisons. It was also too mechanical. If they had said that any obstruction to the natural actions of a part which could stop the blood’s motion in it became a cause of inflammation, they would not have been so materially wrong as to a possible cause of inflammation. It has been as much laboured, on the other hand, to show that the cause cannot on any occasion be obstruction in the blood’s motion through the small vessels; but I will venture to say that any cause winch can obstruct the motion of the blood for a given time will be- come die cause of inflammation; for either the cause of the obstruction itself, or the blood being retained in the smaller vessels for a certain tune, will either irritate or unite the parts; or where it irritates will throw the vessels into such actions as naturally arise out of an extra- neous irritating cause, but not an increased motion of the blood behind to drive on the obstructed blood through these vessels, as has been sup- posed. It will excite that action which in the end produces suppura- tion in order to get rid of the extraneous matter which was the cause of the obstruction, such as pressure on external parts, or the obstruct- ‘ “f mattei; ltself' which is t0 be reckoned extraneous. But though pure ! “flammatlon 18 rather an effort of nature than a disease, yet it always ' ^ dlS6ase or disturbance, in as much as there must be a previous i morbid or disturbed state to make such effort necessary. All inflammations attended with disease have some specific quality which simple inflammation has not; and in such cases it is the specific quality which is the disease, and not the inflammation; for such con- stitutions or parts as are capable of falling into the true adhesive and suppurative inflammation are to lie looked upon as the most healthy and the freest from diseases of all kinds. Indeed, even where there is a spe- efic quality, it often can hardly be called disease; for in the smallpox where the disorder goes through its different operations well, it is ex- act y similar to common healthy inflammation ; for if such an irritation ^ above described were to attack a constitution or parts in another state han that of health, we should then not have either the adhesive or sup- purative inflammation taking place, but most probably some other, such as the erysipelatous or scrofulous, according to the nature of the con- stitution or parts at the time. thJtim St?L0f hCalth ^ a Constitution is 80 remarkable that we see in Z,Ti‘ f 7mpt°matlC feVCr’ when nat“re would seem to be uni- supnurati ^ l^ °* benigD inflammati™ going on, and kindly ppuration; which shows that this fever has no specific tendency to vo? r°n’ the COnStitUtion bein& only disturbed by sympathizing306 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. with a local injury, but not capable of giving or reflecting back upon the part inflamed a diseased disposition or action. And this is so re- markable that such inflammations as seem to affect the constitution by sympathy only, which is commonly either from extent, quantity, or the seat of it being a part essential to or connected with parts belonging to life, go on as kindly as they do in a small inflammation, as a boil, which does not affect the constitution in the least. Indeed fever is a good symptom when equal to the injury, and of the same kind with the local affection, when that kind is good. Let us take an amputation of a leg as an example, which produces something more than a disturbed constitution, for there is a great loss of a substance to that constitution, which, abstracted from the violence, would probably produce considerable effects till the constitution became accustomed to the loss; but even with all this loss we often find that a healthy inflammation shall come upon the stump, and a kindly suppu- ration take place, while the symptomatic fever lasts. In many cases also it still keeps its ground even when affected by many specific irritations which are foreign to it; and nearly in the same manner as when affected by a common irritation, which will only rouse that constitution into action, but not alter it, having only the specific difference added, so that the parts will go readily through the adhesive or suppurative in- flammation ; the specific being only an attendant on this healthy action: this we see plainly to be the case in the healthy smallpox, and the lues i venerea in its first stages. But, on the contrary, if the constitution is such at the time as would readily fall into an unhealthy inflammation, from common irritation or accidental violence, then it will also fall into that state when irritated by a specific irritation foreign to the consti- tution, such as the smallpox, which in this case will run into the con- fluent kind®. There are many constitutions which have a tendency to specific dis- eases that, when injured by fever or any constitutional complaint, rea- dily produce the specific inflammation in such parts of the body as have : the greatest susceptibility for any specific action; or if such parts are affected by any local violence, the parts affected will not go through the healthy adhesive inflammation, nor will they enter into the healthy sup- * [Dr. Gregory has justly observed that the mildness or malignancy of smallpox does not depend so much on badness of constitution or differences in the contagion as on idiosyncrasy or peculiarity of habit; for as there are certain constitutions which suffer more than others from lead, mercury, and the venereal poison, so there arc certain * systems unusually irritable under the operation of the variolous virus. If this observa- tion is just, and there seems no reason to doubt it, it will materially affect the soundness of Mr. Hunter’s conclusions.]FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 307 purative inflammation, but will fall into the specific inflammation pecu- liar to the habit: such is the case with an erysipelatous habit. Or if a specific inflammation has already taken place, any violence done to it, ’ when already begun, will increase that disposition and action, which we plainly see to be the case with the scrofula, because this disease can and often does arise from such a cause alone. Besides the constitution producing such effects, there are many parts of the body which have a 1 Sreater tendency to some specific disease than the constitution in gene- rral; which particular parts will fall into these specific inflammations more readily than others, either upon the constitution being affected, or a violence committed upon themselves : for instance, many parts of the body have a greater tendency to fall into the scrofula than others, and these will fall into that mode of action when injured, either by means of the constitution or from accident; except the constitutional complaint -is such as to be a specific for the scrofula, which I can easily conceive it may. in the cancer also, if the disease has previously taken place, then the tendency of an injury is to exasperate and increase it. But there are specific irritations which do not affect either the part or the constitution, as a common irritation, but affect them in a way pecu- liar to the irritation, altering at the same time both the parts affected and the constitution from a healthy state to an unhealthy one of its own aind. This seems to be the case with the plague, perhaps with the nutrid and jail distempers in a less degree ; for, whatever be the kind >f constitution which they attack, they always reduce that constitution x) their own kind: it is not a healthy operation going on and the spe- ufic superadded, as in the healthy smallpox, &c. However, even the ilague has its degrees of power over a constitution, some being much norc easily, and of course more violently, affected than others° This :hange in these cases, especially in the first, is often so great that the onstitution hardly ever recovers it, so that the patient dies; which we ;ave observed above is not the case with many other specific diseases or oisons, as the smallpox, &c., for this disease makes no change in the onstitution peculiar to itself. from what has been said it must appear that the irritations which re capable of producing those inflammations may be either simple, as mse which produce the adhesive, or producing with it other modes of ^ ion, as either suppuration or ulceration; and also either of the above »odes of action may be joined with some of the specific actions. ence.we may conclude that irritations, of whatever kind, either pro- uce an inflammation peculiar to the constitution, or the nature of the . or according to the irritating cause, as in the plague ; and where i.. according to the constitution, that many specific irritations may be x 2308 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. added without altering the nature of the inflammation itself, and that they only determine its situation, extent, duration, &c. according to the specific disposition added, provided the constitution be healthy; hut if the constitution be unhealthy (whether affected with erysipelas, putrid fever, or plague), and the specific disease be superadded, it will be a mixture of both, that is, it will be a specific inflammation set down upon a constitution of a peculiar kind, and partaking of the character of both, and those specific properties will not be so distinct, or so well formed, as when they appear in a sound constitution. If the constitution has a susceptibility to he putrid, and the small- : pox attacks it, the inflammation will be the smallpox joined with the j putrid mode of action of the constitution, which will affect the mode of action peculiar to the smallpox, and destroy the specific difference of j the inflammation belonging to the smallpox : the pustules will spread, j not suppurate, and look livid according to the putrid disposition. These J constant effects, peculiar to the constitution, may be changed from the j one to the other just as the constitution changes, for the smallpox may j begin upon a healthy constitution, in which they will be distinct or circumscribed; but if the constitution becomes diseased, they will spread; and if the constitution takes a healthy turn again, they will begin to contract to their specific distance again*. * The knowledge of these facts is of great service in the cure of many specific dis-* eases; for, whatever the specific disease may be, we are always to treat the patient in* one respect according to the general nature of the inflammation; and if we have a spc-B cific remedy we are also to join that with the other; but if we have not a specific remedy, we are then only to take up the disease according to the constitution. Let us illustrate the foregoing propositions by example. The first case is explained # by the venereal disease in the form of a chancre: the venereal matter produces an in-* flammation and ulceration according to the nature of the specific disease and the con-* stitution; if the constitution is perfectly healthy, then the effects are the suppurative and specific disease joined; the limits of both are confined according to the constitution J and the nature of the specific disease, for the inflammation and ulceration never ex- tend beyond the specific affection; but ifithc constitution is such as readily to fall into | the erysipelatous, then it becomes the erysipelatous and specific joined; nnd although ;; the extent of the specific affection is limited, that of the erysipelatous is not: the con-g sequence of which is that it spreads over the whole prepuce, and often the whole skin of the penis. j In this disease, under such circumstances, we are led to the method of cure: for although we have a medicine for the venereal inflammation, yet bark is to be given for the erysipelatous; the quantity to be given is according to the predominancy of the one or the other. The effects of this practice are very striking: for as the ery- sipelatous inflammation lessens it becomes more confined in its limits, and, as it were, drawn into the original point; and when it becomes truly suppurative and venereal) its limits then are brought within the specific distance. The second case is explained by the smallpox. The variolous matter in healthy constitutions produces the suppurative and specific inflammations: the specific is limited,FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 309 Many people are much more susceptible of inflammation than others, even of the common kind, and those probably may be reckoned simply irritable. In such it is more violent, and in such it is more apt to spread, the surrounding parts being ready to act or sympathize with an action to which they are prone; continued sympathy more readily takes place in such cases* : but this is not universal, for we find many very consi- derable inflammations confined to the part irritated, and in such in- stances continued sympathy is not great; only the part irritated takes up the action violently. The term or idea of inflammation may be too general, yet it is pro- bable that it may form a genus in which there is a number of species, or it may be more confined in its classification, and be reckoned a spe- cies containing several varieties1. These are, however, so connected and directs the suppurative; but if the erysipelatous conies on, the suppurative ceases; it then spreads along the surface, uniting inflammation with inflammation, and pro- ducing the confluent smallpox. IV e have no specific remedy for the smallpox, nor can we readily have any for a dis- ease which cures itself; our business then is to cure the erysipelatous, if possible, and leave the constitution to cure the specific. * This one might illustrate by a piece of paper being either dry or damp. If dry, then ink will not spread, it will be confined to its point; but if damp it will spread, being attracted by the surrounding damp to which it has an affinity. “ [Many objections have been raised to the present treatise, on the score of its defec- tive classification: but the fact is, the greater number of these have arisen from a mis- taken apprehension of the author’s object (see particularly James on Inflammation, 1st edit., p. 10), which seems to have been solely to explain the phenomena of healthy in- flammation, and only so far to notice the specific varieties of this action as they served to illustrate the main subject. The author, consequently, setting out with the obser- vation that the essential nature of inflammation always remains the same, however complicated the phenomena may be, first presents to his reader’s view a general account of healthy inflammation, which is regarded as the type or primary form of all its va- rieties. Having done this, he proceeds to notice the different causes which give rise to those modifications of the primary form called varieties, and these he groups to- gether under two general heads, viz. structure, position, climate, age, Src. on the one hand, and specific differences of constitution or of exciting cause, on the other; but as the latter necessarily imply a deviation from the healthy standard, they are only inci- dentally noticed ; although it was impossible that the author, out of the fullness of his experience, should not occasionally expatiate on collateral points, when these happened to be of importance. By this method of procedure, which is the method of the erv- stallographcr, the most complicated forms are gradually deduced out of the most simple; and it certainly appears to me that no other method would have served the purpose equally of consolidating the various and heterogeneous facts of this subject. We may regret that Mr. Hunter s scheme did not embrace the complete pathology of inflamma- | lion, but we cannot charge this as any defect of the present treatise. I . * Relieve, further, that the subject of inflammation is incapable of any strict nosolo- | gical classification, principally from the want of some fixed circumstance of leading j impoitance to serve as the basis of a system. It may be very allowable to use such epithets as sthenic or asthenic, acute or chronic, phlegmonous or erysipelatous, scrofu- j °!,S or carb«nculous, because these terms serve to express a resemblance of the existing310 fundamental principles of inflammation. among themselves that we cannot justly understand any one of the species or varieties without forming some idea of the whole, by which means, when treating of any one, we can better contrast it with the others, which gives us a clearer idea both of the one we are treating of and of the whole. So far as it appears to be necessary to take notice of the different inflammations, sis illustrative, they may be comprehended in five divisions; although I must own that if we take in all the specific diseases which produce inflammation, such as the venereal disease in its different forms, the gout, &c., they may be without number. However, many of them produce very much the same appearance and effects with those which are of no specific kind. The specific is of no particular kind, but ouly the cause ; and the specific effect is a something snper- added. Ihe present, viz. the adhesive, with its different effects, as suppuration, I shall consider as one. The cedematous, which comes nearest to the adhesive, forms a second division. The erysipelatous, [a third], the carbuncle [a fourth], and that which leads immediately to mortification [a fifth]. There is another inflammation, very like chil- blains \Erythema nodosum ?], which is not very lively and is often in blotches, some the breadth of a shilling, others of the breadth of half- a-crown, and even broader, &c. This inflammation certainly arises from irritable debility ; the blotches look more of a copper colour, and the skin over them is often diseased. All, except the first, have a kind of affinity to each other; although I think the cedematous has the least ; affinity to the three last, and many vary so as to make it difficult to say to which species the varieties belong. There are a great many other inflammations, but which arise from some specific cause, as the gout, scrofula, &c., or poisons ; but as these do not explain, or illustrate by contrast, the adhesive or suppurative inflammation, I shall not give the inflammation to some certain types which are well understood; but it would be in vain to attempt to arrange the whole of the varieties of inflammation under any two or more • of these heads. Neither would the classification founded on difference of tissue, as first proposed by Dr. Carmichael Smith, be at all more practicable, because the same tissue is subject to different kinds of inflammation, and the same kind of inflammation may j occur in different kinds of tissue, or be transferred by metastasis or otherwise from one to another. In fact there is no other practicable mode of viewing the subject but that of the author, which is to consider healthy inflammation as dre standard, and the degree and kind of deviation from this standard as the specific and distinguishing character- istic of individual inflammations. Of all the modifying circumstances, with the exception perhaps of specific causes, it must be admitted that none has greater and more permanent influence than that of tex- ture : but constitutions will sometimes predominate over texture, and the specific na- ture of the cause over both. Mr. Hunter, in his own masterly manner, has traced the influence of these various circumstances, and especially of texture, in modifying inflam- mation, in which may be distinctly traced the germs of those brilliant views which were afterwards so successfully developed by the illustrious Bichat. 1FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 311 outlines of them here, except just to mention the particulars of the gout as an inflammation. The action of the complete gout has all the characters (while it lasts) of the true inflammation, and which may be called the inflammatory action of the gout; but it has many singularities attending it which attend no other inflammation, and which of course become some of its - specific characters. The inflammation of the gout is very different from the adhesive and suppurative in its sensation. It seldom throbs; it is a pricking, cutting, and darting pain; besides which there is a pain ’ which feels as if the inflamed parts were all moving, and in that motion ■ there is pain ; therefore the action, which is the cause of the pain, must be very different, and is most probably from the action of the vessels, not from their distention, as in the suppurative inflammation. It probably comes on more quickly than any other. Its violence is probably greater, in duration it is jnobably the most uncertain, and its going off is quicker than of any other inflammation. Its shifting from one part of the body to another is probably in some degree pecu- liar to itself, and it leaves parts in a state which no other inflammation does. Without entering further into the nature of this disease than ■ saying it is an act of the constitution, I shall describe some of its visible effects, which of course can only be observed when it falls on an exter- nal part, and when it does it is most commonly on an extremity, more especially on the lower, but sometimes on the upper, and still more commonly the extreme parts of the extremity in either the upper or the lower; and its principal seat in the extremity is a joint. When it falls on internal paits it is most commonly the stomach, which is only supposed by its effects or symptoms, from its being transferred, and from the mode of relief. It attacks also the brain, producing delirium, giddiness, the loss of the natural and accustomed feel of the body, incessant sleepiness, &c., which is also known by the abdve circumstances. When it falls on other parts, either externally or internally, it is not so much deter- mined on what part it is most apt to fall. It sometimes falls either on the lungs or muscles of respiration, the throat, testicles, urethra, pro- ducing a discharge, &c., on the anus, forming piles ; which can only be known to be gout by collateral circumstances. Why the extremities, the stomach, and brain should be similar in sus- ceptibility to take the gouty action from the constitution is not easily • accounted for. I should be inclined to suppose that its effects on the | stomach or brain are not similar to those on the extremity, or probably it does not advance so far in its effects there, because in that case it would certainly kill. Its effects on the extremities are, I believe, always more or less an inflammation, or at least it has the common visible oro!2 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. sensible effects of inflammation. It is most probably what may be called a true specific inflammation, for it produces the same immediate effects in every constitution, therefore does not produce an inflammation ac- cording to the constitution, having the specific action added, similar to poisons; but from its nature it produces the same effects in every con- stitution. I have seen constitutions whose extremities were attacked Avith the cedematous inflammation, attended with a purplish appearance ; violent pain in such cases comes on, which creates some apprehensions of a tendency to mortification : upon looking at the part Ave may sus- pect suppuration, the inflammation to appearance being of that kind; but may think it odd that such healthy inflammation and suppuration should take place in the midst of inflammation of so contrary a kind, but shall find no suppuration ; the inflammation shall continue its pe- riod and then leave the extremities in a much better state than it found them. Although the inflammatory action of the gout is attended with great pain, yet I think it is not so tender as the true inflammation is : a part may be violently inflamed, and yet it may be handled or squeezed ; the nerves are not in such a state of irritation : its consequent effects are ATery different from that of the true inflammation, for instead of entire resolution it gives the disposition to the inflamed parts to fill the joint, or whatever parts have been affected, as, for instance, the cellular mem- brane Avith chalk a. However, chalk is not necessarily an effect of the gouty inflamma- tion ; for in a gouty habit Ave have chalk formed Avhere there never had been any gouty inflammation, yet it is singular it should attack such dissimilar parts as the skin, ligaments, &c. It has not only no ten- dency to suppuration, as an immediate effect of inflammation, but it leaves the parts in a state not easily excited to inflammation : the chalk shall remain for years without producing inflammation, and seldom pro- duces it at all but from quantity; and when the interior surfaces are exposed they hardly take on common inflammation and suppuration, healing more readily than a sore of the same magnitude from any other cause: even a joint shall be exposed, yet common inflammation shall not come on, nor shall it suppurate ; only a watery fluid shall come out, bringing Avith it the chalk occasionally, and it shall heal up kindly. It is probable that the gout is not always an act of the constitution, but * [The experiments of Wollaston have shown that these tophaceous depositions con- sist principally of urate of soda, combined with a little urate and phosphate of lime. The most remarkable fact, however, connected with the appearance of gouty concre- tions, is the coexistence or alternate deposition of uric acid from the urine: so that a paroxysm of gout is not unfrequcntly known to pass off by a copious secretion of this acid from the kidneys.]FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 313 that parts may be so susceptible, or rather disposed, for this action that they may immediately run into it when deranged. If this notion be well founded, then it may be a question-whether this local affection relieves the constitution for the time from any susceptibility for such an action. It maybe disputed whether the following are all inflammations or not. They often arise from the same causes : accident, for instance, produces all of them. They have certainly many characters in common, although not always the same result. The vessels becoming enlarged, there is an extravasation, pain, and a separation of the cuticle, but seldom a formation of matter, although there sometimes is, which happens when they have at first more of the adhesive state ; and there is a circum- stance which I think is common to them, namely, a red streak passing from the inflamed part generally towards the trunk, although not always in this direction. In common language they are called erysipelatous, although very different, the erysipelatous being one of the best marked inflammations of any. I do not mean to treat of these but in a general way, not even when considering the method of cure. It is probable there is no specific distinction between any of these inflammations but what arises from the constitution or the parts, for we find them all pro- ceeding from what may be called the same accidental cause, which there- fore cannot produce anything specific ; the distinctions in the mode of action of the inflamed parts being occasioned by a peculiarity in the con- stitution, or the nature of the part itself; but probably in the consti- tution. It has been supposed that the different species or varieties of inflam- mation arise from the difference in the nature of the part inflamed ; but this is certainly not the case*; for if it was, we should soon be made acquainted with all the different inflammations in the same person, at the same time, and even in the same wound: for instance, in an ampu- tation of a leg, where we cut through skin, cellular membrane, muscle, tendon, periosteum, bone, and marrow, the skin should give us the in- flammation of its kind, the cellular membrane of its kind, the muscles of theirs, the tendons of theirs, the periosteum, bone, marrow, &c. of theirs; but we find it is the same inflammation in them all: it is the adhesive in them all if the parts are brought together, it is the suppu- rative if the parts are exposed. I shall at present only take notice of the four last , as I mean to treat more fully of the first, which cannot c bo completely understood without seeing the distinctions. * [See note, p. 310.] b [Namely, the species of inflammation referred to at p. 310, viz. the cedematous ery- sipelatous, carbunculous, and sloughy inflammations.] ’ '314 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. [1.] \\ hat I would call the cedematous inflammation is when the ex- travasated fluid is water ; it has very much the appearance of the adhe- sive, and probably comes the nearest to it of any, being of a scarlet colour, but much more diffused. The fluid extravasated, being princi- pally the serum, renders the swelling more diffused than even the inflam- mation itself; it is very painful, or rather sore, but there is not so much of the throbbing sensation as in the adhesive inflammation ; it appears to be only on the surface, but most probably goes much deeper; for in such cases the extravasated fluid is in too large quantity to be furnished by the cells of the cutis alone ; but in this we have not the same guide as in the adhesive, viz. the swelling and inflammation corresponding with each other. The difference between this inflammation and the ad- hesive arises, I conceive, from the principle of inflammation acting upon a dropsical disposition, which is always attended with weakness; whereas a greater degree of strength w’ould have produced the adhesive inflam- mation under the same cause or irritation; and what makes me con- ceive this is, that in many cases of anasarcous legs we have exactly this inflammation come on from distention, which adds to the extravasation of the serum, as well as in most cases of scarifications of cedematous parts to evacuate the water. When this inflammation takes place it is much more lasting than the adhesive, and I believe seldom or never pro- duces suppuration ; but if it should run into this stage it is more gene- ral, and the whole cellular membrane in the interstices of parts is apt to mortify and slough, producing very extensive abscesses, which are not circumscribed. [2.] The erysipelatous inflammation is very peculiar, and most in- flammations that are not of the true adhesive and suppurative kinds are called so, although probably they do not in the least belong to it; and this may arise more from the want of terms than the want of discrimi- nation. This inflammation often arises spontaneously, or in consequence of a low or debilitating fever. It often arises from accident, but then it is commonly a secondary inflammation, although not always : for the first shall have gone off, and when suppuration was to take place it shall have come kindly on, but afterwards the erysipelatous shall take place. This may be called a remote inflammation, and is in this respect some- what similar to the locked jaw. It is more commonly a cutaneous in- flammation than situated in the deeper-seated parts, although in some constitutions every inflammation, wherever it exists, will most probably be of this kind ; however, the skin appears to be most susceptible of it, because it will spread over a prodigious surface of skin, while it does not affect even the cellular membrane underneath, at least not com- monly. There is an inflammation which attacks internal canals whichFUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 315 is classed with the erysipelatous, hut how far it is the same I do not know ; it is certainly not the suppurative, and as almost every other in- flammation was formerly called erysipelatous, this has been supposed to belong to this kind of inflammation. The inflammation I am speaking of is more common to the throat than any other part, often gome; down the trachea. Whatever it is, it may be considered in some of its effects to be in direct opposition to the adhesive and the suppurative inflam- mations ; for where the adhesive most readily produces adhesions, there the erysipelatous does not, as in the common cellular membrane; and where the adhesive seldom takes place, excepting from extreme violence, there this inflammation (if erysipelatous) has a tendency to produce ad- hesions, as in canals or outlets; it also opposes, in some degree, the suppurative, in being backward in producing suppuration even in those places where suppuration most readily takes place, such as canals and outlets, for there, as above observed, it more readily throws out the coagulating lymph. Whatever the inflammation may be, it is certainly attended with nearly the same kind of constitutional affection. The fever in both appears to be the same, viz. accompanied with debility, languor, &c. The extra- vasation in consequence of the erysipelatous inflammation is not so great as in either the adhesive or the cedematous; nor is it of that kind which produces adhesions between the parts inflamed, which in this inflamma- tion would commonly be unnecessary, as it seldom produces suppu- ration, but is attended with very bad consequences when it does. It appears to support itself by continued sympathy, for it commonly begins at a point and spreads, while it shall be getting well where it first began. This cannot be merely constitutional; for if it was, the parts already in- flamed could not recover, if its increase in new parts arose from the con- stitution ; but it gives the idea that when the parts have once gone through this action that they lose the disposition and become healthy. I his property is not peculiar to this inflammation, the ringworm has this peculiarity, as also many cutaneous ulcers*. I his inflammation is more common in the summer than in the winter, more especially in hospitals; and I think takes place oftener after wounds on the head than any other. I have often seen it begin round a wound, on the scalp, extending itself over the whole head and face ; the eyelids I here appear to me two ways of accounting for this : one is, that the whole skin is very susceptible of such action, and readily goes on with it by continued sympathy, and the part having gone through the action, like the smallpox, &c., loses the disposition and the action ceases. The other is, that the inflammation is such as to contaminate " nle it spreads, but when it has once acted it is cured as above observed. If this last be a true solution, then the right practice would be to atop its progress by destrovine the parts beyond it, ^ **316 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. being very much swelled, the ears thickened, and it has advanced to the neck, shoulders, and body, creeping along both arms, and termina- ting at the fingers’ ends ; that which attacks the body often goes along the body to both thighs, down the legs, and terminates at the ends of the toes; and while this is going on, it is as expeditiously cured behind, and the skin peels off the cured parts. However, this is not always the case; it often stops, and where it proceeds so far, it is commonly be- coming milder. This inflammation, when it runs along the skin, has a determined edge, not losing itself gradually and insensibly in the skin beyond, as in the true adhesive, and indeed most of the inflammations; the skin feels as if only a little thickened, and not so pliable; for by passing the finger along the sound skin to the inflamed we feel an evi- dent difference. The colour of the skin is of a darkish red. When it goes deeper than the skin into the cellular membrane it often suppu- rates ; but then I suspect it is not the true erysipelatous, for in such cases it commonly produces mortification in the cells, by which air is let loose: this gives a strange feel, neither of fluctuation nor crepita- tion, and as there are no adhesions the matter finds an easy passage into the common cellular membrane, increasing the same kind of sup- puration wherever it comes; and as mortification is a consequence of these inflammations, putrefaction ensues, and the discharge becomes very offensive. Whether this difference in the effect of the inflamma- tion arises from the nature of the parts, I will not pretend to say. This effect takes place about the buttocks and side of the anus oftener than anywhere else, as indeed does common inflammation and suppuration. This inflammation commonly begins with fever, lowness of spirits, prostration of strength, loss of appetite, &c.; but it commonly does not last long, and the inflammation shall spread even when the fever is gone off, but then it is not so violent. When it produces suppuration in the cellular membrane it is often dangerous, both from the disease itself and the consequences of the matter diffusing itself much further. This effect frequently takes place when this inflammation attacks the buttocks or parts near the anus, and often proves fatal. In such cases, as the sores seldom ulcerate, they should be opened early, for the mat- ter either gets into the cellular membrane from the want of adhesions, or it separates parts that are only attached, as the periosteum from the bone, muscles from muscles, &c., whereas the true suppurative ulcerates briskly, which therefore should not be opened early, but allowed to burst. Many inflammations on the skin which come to suppuration have something of the erysipelatous disposition, for we see them increasing the circle of inflammation, the cuticle separating, matter forming under- neath from the cutis, and the sore healing in the centre; they perhapsFUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 317 begin like a pimple, but spread in that way to the breadth of a sixpence, shilling, or crown-piece; such often take place on the fingers. [3.] The inflammation that produces the carbuncle is of a different nature from any of the former; it is stationary with respect to place, and is pretty much circumscribed, even forming a broad flat firm tumour; it begins in the skin almost like a pimple, and goes deeper and deeper, spreading with a broad base under the skin in the cellular membrane ; and although considerably tumefied, yet this does not arise from the ex- travasation of coagulating lymph producing adhesions which are to re- tain life, for the very cells into which it is extravasated become dead. It produces a suppuration, but not an abscess, somewhat similar to the erysipelatous when the inflammation passes into the cellular membrane, for as there are no adhesions the matter lies in the cells where it was formed, almost like water in an anasarca; but still it is not diffused through the uninflamed cellular membrane, as in the erysipelatous, for it appears to extend no further than the inflammation : one would almost imagine that there was a limitation to the extent, beyond which this species of inflammation could not go, and at these limits the adhesive inflammation took place to confine the matter within the bounds of the carbuncle. A diffused ulceration on the inside for the exit of the mat- ter takes place, making a number of openings through the skin. There are generally more carbuncles than one at the same time, a great number succeeding each other, which would almost seem to pro- duce each other in this succession ; they are commonly more on the trunk of the body than anywhere else. However, I have seen them on the head, and sometimes on the extremities, although but seldom. They are more commonly on the posterior part of the body than the anterior. This inflammation attacks more beyond the middle age than at it, and very few under it. It is most common in those that have lived well. I never .saw but one patient of this kind in an hospital. It appears to have some affinity to the boil; but the boil differs in this respect, that it has more of the true inflammation, therefore spreads less, and is more pecu- liar to the young than the old, which may be the reason why it partakes more of the true inflammation. As death is produced in a great deal of the cellular membrane, and I believe in it only, except the skin giving way, which I believe is by ul- ceration principally, it becomes a question whether this mortification arises from the nature of the inflammation, or rather from the matter being confined in the cells of the cellular membrane. I rather suspect the latter; for I find that if this matter escapes from these cells and comes into uninflamed cells, it produces mortification there. This is like the urine, for whenever the urine escapes into the cellular mem-ois FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. brane it there produces mortification ; the colour of the skin is at first more vivid than afterwards, for it becomes of a purple colour'1. [4.] Inflammation often produces mortification or death in the part inflamed. This commonly takes place in old people that are become very much debilitated, and chiefly in the lower extremities. I suspect it to be somewhat similar to the carbuncle, viz. principally in those who have lived well, although not so much confined to them as the car- buncle ; however, it takes place in the young, where great debility has been produced from disease, especially those diseases that have debility as a principle, such as what are commonly called putrid fevers ; but the situation of these is not so determined, and in such inflammation hardly takes place without an immediate exciting cause, as the application of blisters, &c. Death in a part sometimes takes place almost immedi- ately without inflammation; but this is not to the present purpose. Where mortification succeeds inflammation in the extremities, especially in elderly persons, there is often an early separation of the cuticle which forms a blister, filled with a bloody serum ; and we shall observe dark brownish spots, which consist of extravasated blood in the true cutis, and which shall at last blister, and then the cutis forms a slough. Such inflammations have little of the adhesive tumefaction in them, but more of the cedematous; are not clear or transparent, but rather of a dusky red. As the colour of the inflamed parts shows something of its nature, it is to be observed that it is different in all these inflamma- tions from that of the true adhesive; and as we have reason to believe that the circulation is quicker in the adhesive inflammation than is na- tural, and that the colour arises from this cause, we may suppose that the motion of the blood in these is languid, and that it assumes the venal appearance even in the arteries. In most of these four inflammations there is an appearance that often arises, w'hich is a reddish streak commonly passing from the inflamed parts towards the source of the circulation, but not always in this di- rection, sometimes just the contrary; and this is more certain when it happens to take place in an extremity, because there we know the course of all the vessels better ; but it does not always arise from the part in- flamed. I have seen this last species of. inflammation attack the toes, * [Probably the scarlet colour may in some measure arise from the salts of the urine. Afterwards, as the urine putrefies, ammonia is evolved, which changes the natural colour of the blood to a deep black.] » [See Lemons Orales de Clinique Chirurgicale, par M. Dupuytren. According to this gentleman, the spontaneous, dry, or senile gangrene (which is here principally referred to) is generally the consequence of spontaneous arteritis and obliteration of the principal vessels. According to Cruveilhier, the same effect may be produced by arterial inflam- mation induced by direct experiment on living animals.]FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 319 and red streaks run up the foot, terminating about the ankle, while there were several arising on the fore part of the leg just below the knee. They often make a network on the leg, and are frequently a forerunner and an attendant on mortification. They seldom go further than a blush in the skin, seldom thicken, hut are more of the cedematous kind ; how- ever, we sometimes find hard cords running from sores and inflamma- tions, but these are commonly deeper-seated, and I have suspected them to be veins. As a proof of this, I have seen the superficial veins of the leg have the skin red over them, similar to those above described, and the veins have felt hard under the finger. These reddish streaks are supposed to be absorbents, becoming in- flamed by their carrying a stimulating fluid. I am apt to suppose them to be absorbents, but I do not conceive that this effect arises from ab- sorption. If it arose from such a cause it should be uniform ; the cause should always exist when the effect takes place. It is first to be ob- served that it only takes place in certain constitutions, in which absorp- tion one way or other explains nothing; and I find, upon observation, that this effect shall be coeval with the inflammation where no suppu- ration has taken place. I have even seen it arise from accident, prior to the possibility of inflammation taking place, viz. in the time of the pain arising from the immediate effects of the accident: this was in the finger, from the prick of a clean needle, which had been for some time piercing new buckskin leather; the glands in the armpit were sore ; sick- ness, attended with its usual symptoms, such as oppression, was nearly as immediate. Its direction from the source of the circulation is another strong proof of its not arising from absorption, and its taking place at some distance is also a corroboration of the same opinion. Another strong circumstance in favour of this opinion is that the morbid poisons do not produce this effect, where we know absorption has taken place. Thus the venereal seldom if ever produces it. The hard cord passing from the prepuce along the upper part of the penis I do not conceive to he of this kind. In the smallpox after inoculation it has been observed, but I imagine it was only in the above-mentioned constitutions. I could conceive it to arise in the plague, if there was any local disease. I am therefore rather apt to attribute this appearance to the irritation run- ning along the lymphatics, more especially in such constitutions; and as we do not allow the veins to be absorbents, their being affected must be supposed to arise from the same causea. Whenever we see this effect we may, in some degree, form an djunion of the kind of inflam- mation, and that it is not the most favourable. [See paper On Absorption by Feins in Vol. IV., and On Inflammation of the Veins at320 THE adhesive inflammation. CHAPTER III. the adhesive inflammation. I shall begin by treating of the nature and effects of what I have called the adhesive inflammation, as well as giving a proper idea of it. I shall also open the way to a clear understanding of the many pheno- mena which attend the suppurative inflammation. But as inflamma- tion does not produce one effect only, but several, and as most of them take place about the same time, it is difficult to determine in the mind which to describe first. Inflammation in most cases appears to begin at a point: for at the very first commencement all the local symptoms are within a very small compass; and they afterwards spread according to the violence of the cause, the disposition in the parts for inflammation, and the nature of the surrounding parts themselves, which susceptibility in the surround- ing parts may be either constitutional or local. This is so much the case that inflammation shall come on at once in a fixed point, giving great pain, and which shall be soon followed by tumefaction. This is also the case with those inflammations which arise from accident, for all accidents are confined to fixed and determined limits; but the in- flammation which follows is not; it spreads over a large extent; yet the inflammation is always the greater the nearer it is to the first fixed point, and gradually becomes less and less in the surrounding parts, till at last it is insensibly lost in them. This spreading of the inflammation is owing to continued sympathy, the surrounding parts sympathizing with the point of irritation ; and in proportion to the health of the surrounding parts and constitution this the end of this volume. The symptoms and phenomena of inflammation of the ab- sorbents and inflammation of the veins are analogous in many respects, and very often occur together, particularly after parturition. The particular conditions which dispose to these inflammations are very imperfectly understood, but in general they undoubt- edly point to a broken down and highly irritable state of the constitution. Inflamma- tion of the absorbents is the most frequent of the two, and very often is the first sym- ptom of an attack of erysipelas, the inflammation passing outwards, as it were, with great facility, and extensively spreading on the skin. It is probably from the interpo- sition of the lymphatic glands preventing the circulation of pus, that inflammation of the absorbents is so much less fatal than that of the veins.]321 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. ; {Sympathy is less ; for we find in many states of parts, and many con- stitutions, that there is a disposition to this sympathy, and in such the inflammation spreads in proportion a. §. 1. Action of the Vessels in Inflammation. The act of inflammation would appear to be an increased action of '.the vessels* ; but whatever action it is, it takes place most probably in tthe smaller vessels, for it may be confined almost to a point where no- thing but the smallest vessels exist. The larger vessels may be con- - sidered as only the conveyers of the materials, for the smaller to act upon j:*and dispose of according to the different intentions; however, inflam- mation in a part is not only an action of the smaller vessels in the part itself, but in the larger vessels leading to it. This is proved by a whit- ; low taking place on the end of a finger ; for although the inflammation I itself shall be confined to the end of a finger, and the inflammatory sen- |'sati0n or throbbing be situated in this part, yet we can feel by our hands, • when we grasp the finger, a strong pulsation in the two arteries leading to the inflamed part, while no such pulsation can be felt in the other i-tifingers ; and if the inflammation is very considerable, the artery, as high |ras ^ie wr‘st> wiU he sensibly affected, which proves that the arterial -system is at that time dilating itself, and allowing a much larger quan- tity of blood to pass than is usual. This is probably bv continued sym- b-pathy. Where the inflammation affects the constitution, the vessels of the psystem rather contract, and keep as it were stationary, which stationary . contraction is more or less according to the state of the constitution, fIn stronS healthy constitutions, whose powers are equal to the neces- sary actions, or in parts that affect the constitution less, this contraction ['is less and less stationary. The very first act of the vessels when the stimulus which excites in- • It may be here remarked, that the action of vessels is commonly supposed to he ontract,on, either by their elastic or muscular coats ; but I have shown that their elastic zz:r M ,h™' 'nd 1"™ re,“n “ J [Ih. g.po.M,. U, .pr..d d,pc,,„ „„ m„y „ ,hc Mure J depends on the constitution, it may be affirmed almost certainly that the ner- •oamdaWe",1 “ T “d that '°Ca,1>' there is a defective power of effusing a^,utable lymph ; a circumstance of which Mr. James has ingeniously availed himseff » form the basis of his classification of inflammations.] VOL. III.TIIE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 322 flammation is applied, is, I believe, exactly similar to a blush. It is, I believe, simply an increase or distension beyond their natural size. This effect we see takes place upon many occasions ; gentle friction on the skin produces it, gently stimulating medicines have the same effect; a warm glow is the consequence, similar to that of the cheek in a blush ; and if either of these be increased or continued, real inflammation will be the consequence, as well as excoriation, suppuration, and ulceration. This effect we often see, even where considerable mischief has been done; and I believe it is what always terminates the boundaries of the true in- flammation. A musket-ball shall pass a considerable way under the skin, perhaps half-way round the body, which shall be discovered and traced by a red band in the skin, not in the least hard, only a little tender to the touch ; and it shall subside without extending further. This appear- ance I shall term a blush; for although this may be reckoned the first act of inflammation, yet I would not call it inflammation, having pro- duced a lasting effect. I should rather say that inflammation sets out from this point, and that afterwards a new action begins, which is pro- bably first a separation of the coagulating lymph, and the throwing it out of the vessels. The parts inflamed appear to become more vascular; but how far they are really so I am not certain; for this appearance does (at least in part) arise from the dilatation of the vessels, which allows the red part of the blood to go into vessels where only serum and coagulating lymph could pass when they were in a natural state ; and till the newly-extravasated substances become vascular, the effect is most probably owing wholly to the above cause. This incipient enlargement of the vessels upon the first excitement of inflammation is satisfactorily seen in the following manner. Make an incision through the skin on the inside of the upper part of a dog’s tliigh, three inches long. By pulling the cut edges asunder, and observing the exposed surface, we shall see the blush or ash-coloured cellular membrane covering the different parts underneath, with a few arteries passing through it to the neighbouring parts. But in a little time we shall see these vessels increasing in size, and also smaller vessels going off from them that were not before observable, as if newly formed or forming ; the number and size shall increase till the whole surface shall become extremely vascular, and at last the red blood shall be thrown out in small dots on the exposed surface, probably through the cut ends of the arteries that only carried the lymph before. This surface will become in time more opake and less ductile. Parts inflamed, when com- pared with similar parts not inflamed, show a considerable difference in the size of the vessels, and probably from this cause bring an increased323 TIIE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. number to view. I froze the ear of a rabbit and thawed it again : this excited a considerable inflammation, an increased heat, and a consider- able thickening of the part. This rabbit was killed when the ear was in the height of inflammation, and the head being injected, the two ears were removed and dried [see PI. XX.]. The uninflamed ear dried clear and transparent, the vessels were distinctly seen ramifying through the substance; but the inflamed ear dried thicker and more opake, and its arteries were considerably larger. In inflammation of the eye, which is commonly of the tunica conjunc- tiva, the progress of inflammation may in part be accurately observed, although not so progressively as in a wound. The contrast between the red vessel and the white of the eye, under this coat, is very conspi- cuous ; and although we do not sec the vessels enlarging in this coat, ' >Tet we see the progress they have made : the white appears as if it was becoming more vascular, and these vessels larger, till at last the whole tunica conjunctiva shall appear as one mass of blood, looking more like extravasated blood than a congeries of vessels, although I believe it is . commonly the last. From these circumstances it must appear that a much larger quan- jt tity of blood passes through parts when inflamed than when in a natu- i ral state®, which is according to the common rules of the animal ceco- i nomy; for, whenever a part has more to do than simply to support itself, t the blood is there collected in larger quantity. This we find to take place universally in those parts whose powers are called up to action by 801116 necessary operation to be performed, whether natural or diseased. As the vessels become larger, and the part becomes more of the colour of the blood, it is to be supposed there is more blood in the part; and as the true inflammatory colour is scarlet, or that colour which the blood has when in the arteries, one would from hence conclude either that the arteries were principally dilated, or at least, if the veins are equally dis- tended, that the blood undergoes no change in such inflammation in its passage from the arteries into the veins, which I think is most probably the case; aud this may arise from the quickness of its passage through those vessels. When inflammation takes place in parts that have a degree of trans- parency, that transparency is lessened. This is, probably, best seen in membranes, such as those membranes which line cavities, or cover bodies m thosi cavities, such as the pia mater, where, in a natural state, we may observe the blood-vessels to be very distinct. But when we see [Recent microscopical investigations have demonstrated the error of this opinion. . as will be shown more fully presently.] Y 2324 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. the blood-vessels fuller than common, yet distinct in such membranes, we are not to call that inflammation, although it may be the first step, as we find to be the case in the first action of the vessels in consequence of such irritation as will end in inflammation. As it may not, however, be the first step, there must be other attending circumstances to deter- mine it to be the very first action of the vessels in inflammation, for as that appearance may either belong to a briskness in the circulation in the part at the time, or be the very first step in inflammation, their causes are to be discriminated by some other symptom. They are both a kind of blush, or an exertion of the action of the vessels; but when it is an effect of an inflammatory cause, it is then only that the inflam- mation has not yet produced any change in the natural structure of the parts, but which it will soon do*. What the action is, or in what it differs from the common action of the vessels, is not easily ascertained, since we are more able to judge of the effects than the immediate cause. However, it is probably an action of the vessels, which we can better observe than any diseased action in the body, for we can observe the state in which the arteries are, with their general effects; we feel also a different temperature respecting heat, yet the immediate cause may not be ascertainable. The vessels, both arteries and veins, in the inflamed part are enlarged, and the part becomes visibly more vascular; from which we should sus- pect, that instead of an increased contraction, there was rather what would appear an increased relaxation of their muscular powers, being, as we might suppose, left to the elasticity entirely. This would be re- ducing them to a state of paralysis simply ; but the power of muscular contraction would seem to give way in inflammation, for they certainly dilate more in inflammation than the extent of the elastic power would allow ; and it must also be supposed that the elastic power of the artery must be dilated in the same proportion. The contents of the circula- tion being thrown out upon such occasions, would, from considering it in those lights, rather confirm us in that opinion; and when we con- sider the whole of this as a necessary operation of nature, we must sup- pose it something more than simply a common relaxation; we must suppose it an action in the parts to produce an increase of size to answer particular purposes; and this I should call the action of dilatation, as we see the uterus increase in size in the time of uterine-gestation, as * When this appearance is seen anywhere after death it should not he called inflam- mation, even although we knew it was the first action of inflammation; for as we are then only looking out for the causes of death, or the symptoms prior to death, we are only to look out for such as can be a cause, and not lay hold of those that cannot pos* sibly be a cause, which those first actions cannot be.325 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. well as the os tincae in the time of labour, the consequence of the pre- ceding actions, and necessary for the completion of those which are to follow. The force of the circulation would seem to have some share in this effect, but only as a secondary cause ; for I could conceive a part to in- flame, or be in a state of inflammation, although no blood were to pass. As a proof of this, we may observe, that by lessening either the action of the heart, or the column of blood, inflammation is lessened; and I ! may also observe, that we have an increased pain in the inflamed part in the diastole of the artery, and a part inflamed by being gently pressed is made easier. Thus a person with an inflammation in the finger will find relief by gently pressing it in the other hand. These are strong ] proofs that it is not a contractile action of the muscular coat of the ves- sel ; for in such a sensible state of vessels, if they contracted by their muscular power, the pain would be in their systole ; for we find in all muscles which are in a state of great sensibility, from whatever cause, jl that they cannot act without giving great pain. Thus an inflamed bladder becomes extremely painful when expelling its contents; an j i inflamed intestine in the same manner. I should say, therefore, that in | i inflammation the muscular coats of the arteries do not contract. Whatever purpose this increase of the size of the vessels may answer, we must suppose it allows a greater quantity of blood to pass through : the inflamed part than in the natural state, which supposition is sup- I' i ported by many other observations. The part inflamed, I have already | observed, becomes to appearance more vascular than when in the natu- ral state, and it is probable that it is really so, both from new vessels being set up in the inflamed part, as well as from the new and adven- titious uniting substance becoming vascular. Besides, the vessels of the parts are enlarged, so that the red blood passes further than common, which increases those appearances. But the brain appears to be an excep- tion to these general rules ; for in all diseases of the brain, where the ef- fects were such as are commonly the consequence of inflammation, such as suppuration from accidents, I never could find the above appearances; ; t^lc ,)ra'n ma7> perhaps, go directly into suppuration, as sometimes the ; j peritonaeum does ; but its slowness of going into suppuration after the . accident would make us suppose, a priori, that there was sufficient time ; for adhesions to forma. [In an inquiry into the proximate cause of inflammation, two principal considera- ; lions occur: first, as to (lie state of the capillary circulation, and, secondly, as to the ! influence of the nervous system. 1. When the web of a frog's foot, or the transparent mesentery of a warm-blooded ! animal, are viewed in the field of a good microscope, and at the same time irritated,326 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. §• -• Of the Colour, Swelling, and Pain of Inflamed Parts. [Colour.'] The colour of an inflamed part is visibly changed from the natural, whatever it was, to a red. This red is of various hues, accord- effects very different are observed to ensue in different cases j but in all instances where inflammation is well established the vessels are observed to be increased in number as well as size, and the course of the blood to be much retarded. The evidence upon this point is so universal, precise, and satisfactory, as to render any detail on the subject quite unnecessary and any doubt upon the question a mere excess of scepticism. (See Trea- tise on Inflammation, by Dr. C. Hastings, p. 67. Hist, des Inflam., par M. Gendrin, ii. 475, (1453 et seq.) Lectures on Inflam., by Dr. J. Thomson, p. 01. Treatise on Febrile Diseases, by Dr. IT. Philip, 3rd edit. ii. 17. Kaltenbrunner, op. cit. See ante, p. 142.) It vvould appear, however, that there is a great difference between actual inflammation and that precedent state of erubescence which is excited by slight stimulants, or which bounds the outer circumference of an inflamed part, a difference which has not always been attended to, and which in many instances has led to mistakes on this subject. At first the efleet of stimulation is generally to contract the small vessels and to accelerate the circulation ; but as soon as inflammation is unequivocally established, the circulation is invariably retarded. In severe cases indeed the retardation amounts to a complete stasis, although in the surrounding parts the blood is observed to flow with more rapi- dity than usual. Arguing from these facts, Dr. Hastings and others have drawn the conclusion that debility of the capillaries is the cause of inflammation ; or, in other words, that the in- creased action of the vessels, consequent on the application of stimuli, exhausts and im- pairs their irritability, and gives rise to their subsequent dilatation, followed on the other hand by an increased action of the larger vessels; so that, according to this gentleman, “ Inflammation consists in a weakened action of the capillaries, by which the equili- brium between the larger and smaller vessels is destroyed, and the latter become dis- tended;” while the restoration of an inflamed part is supposed to be effected by the capillary vessels being so excited, and the larger vessels so far weakened, by the preter- : natural action of the latter, that the two are again brought into correspondence and pro- portion to each other. The objections to this theory are sufficiently obvious, as it not only places the two extremities of the vascular system in opposition to each other, without any apparent cause, but makes the recovery of inflammation to depend upon the reaction of the larger vessels, which, if we may judge from the effect of remedies, or from the common sense of the case, should appear to be one of the most certain means of increasing it. Besides, why the larger vessels should be excited by the debility of the smaller, or the latter recover themselves from their debilitated state by the excitement of the larger, is 1 not pretended to be accounted for; not to mention that every physiological fact is strongly repugnant to the notion of an action, essentially reparative, like that of inflam- mation, being dependent on debility for its principle. The other most prevailing opinion on this subject is that which was adopted by our . author, viz. that inflammation is an increased action of the natural powers of a part attended with an accelerated circulation. The grounds for this opinion are as follow: 1. That when a part has more to do than simply to support its own life, an increased activity of the circulation becomes necessary ; as, for instance, in the growth of the stag's horn, the enlargement of the vessels of the uterus during gestation, and the augmented supply of blood to secreting organs during the period of their activity. 2. That theTHE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 327 ing to the nature of the inflammation ; if healthy, it is a pale red; if less healthy, the colour will be darker, more of a purple, and so on till it shall arteries and capillaries visibly enlarge in size and increase in number in inflammation exactly as they are observed to do when the healthy functions of any part are unusually exerted. 3. That as, under ordinary circumstances, the heat and sensibility of parts are in proportion to the quantity of blood going to these parts, so it is reasonable to con- clude that the same effects, observable in inflammation, are dependent on the same causes. 4. That inflamed parts bleed more copiously than those which are uninflamed, and that the redness returns more rapidly after pressure than is observed to happen in parts which have been stricken with cold, and are consequently congested. 5. That the returning veins from an inflamed part are more distended than naturally, which perfectly accords with the observation made by Mr. Lawrence that when venesection is simultaneously performed on both arms, one of which is inflamed, the blood which flows from the inflamed side, in a given time, is twice and sometimes three times as great as that which flows from the sound side. C. That periodic determinations of blood consequent on increased activity of function are apt, when excessive either in degree or duration, to terminate in inflammation, in the same manner exactly as great or pro- longed constitutional excitement from exercise or mental causes may terminate in fever. 7. That the arterial colour of the blood in inflamed parts depends (as Mr. Hunter sup- posed) on the rapidity of its transmission through the parts, which does not allow suf- ficient time for the usual changes to take place; an effect, however, which it seems more reasonable to refer to the perverted state of the vital functions. 8. That the pul- satory and throbbing pain of inflammation indicates an increased local activity, just as any sudden or great exertion of muscular power occasions throbbing of the whole System. The augmented volume and stroke of the pulse, and the increased impetus with which the blood is projected from an inflamed vessel when divided, are additional proofs of the same kind. 9. That as the application of stimuli, ex vi termini, excites an unusual activity of function in all the organs of the body, it seems unreasonable to assign a se- dative effect to these agencies where they occasion inflammation. 10. That the causes of inflammation, immediate as well as predisponent, are of such a nature as to give increased vigour to most of the operations of the economy, as on the other hand the nature of the remedies employed is precisely of that kind which is known, from experience, to be best calculated to diminish strength as well as to reduce action. 11. That the ordinary func- tions of an inflamed part, and sometimes of the whole system, are suspended and as it were concentrated on the process of reparation, agreeably to what is observed to happen when other important operations arc carried on in the animal body. These reasons seem sufficient to lead to the conclusion that inflammation is an act in which, if there is not increased power, there is at least increased action. The capital objection to this theory is, that the circulation is demonstratively retarded, and sometimes completely arrested, in inflammation ; an objection which is partly re- moved, however, by the consideration, that although retarded in the most inflamed parts, it is accelerated in the parts adjacent. The statement, however, is objectionable on other accounts. It makes increased action, in parts professedly contractile, to consist in dilatation, for which we have no authority, and which obviously confounds conges- tion with inflammation; besides, dilatation can only influence the circulation by giving increased effect to the heart’s action; an effect, however, which by no means univer- sally follows; and in regard to the larger arteries the same consequences must ensue, for it has been proved by Dr. Alison, that instead of their contractility being increased,THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. be a bluish purple, which I took notice of in the short sketch of the pecu- liar inflammations; hut the parts inflamed will in every constitution be as the hypothesis supposes, it is certainly impaired (4th and 5th Rep. of Br. Assoc.). In the sense, therefore, in which the author understood the term, increased action cer- tainly does not take place, although in another sense it certainly must. Probably the effect of inflammation is to approximate the structure of an inflamed part to that of a gland, requiring, on the one hand, a slow circulation, in order that the important offices of reparation may be carried on; and on the other hand, an extensive supply of the vital fluid as aliment to this function. It is at least remarkable, that the whole internal arrangements of glands, as well indeed as of the whole capillary system, seem designed to retard the circulation, while the most prominent symptom of inflammation, and that which forms the only unequivocal proof of its presence, is the slowness of the circula- tion and the extraordinary quantity of effusion which is poured out. Inflammation, however, is an act which involves all the functions of a part. The blood itself is affected. It loses its globular structure, and the globules are observed to lose their repulsive properties, and either to agglomerate together, or to adhere to the sides of the vessels. At first it is generally redder than usual, but afterwards it assumes 'arious shades of brown or yellow, until at length, when suppuration is fairly established, it has the character of pus, which some have been able to trace, as it slowly moved along the vessels, until it finally exuded on the surface. (Gendrin, op. eit., il. 479. (1457, 1458.)) Along with these appearances are sometimes observed irregular flocculi, float- ing in a transparent fluid, which have the appearance of ragged portions of lymph, or decolornted and broken-down globules of blood. As soon as the inflammation begins to subside, the globules reappear, and the current of the circulation is slowly re-esta- blished j but should the inflammation increase still further in violence, the blood then entirely loses its red colour, complete stagnation of it takes place, and the part becomes gangrenous. More or fewer of these changes invariably attend inflammation, which cannot therefore be supposed to consist in a simple alteration of the circulation, but principally of those vital affinities subsisting between the vessels and their contents, which are the peculiar attributes of life. As soon as inflammation is established, an increased secretion takes place from the cells of the cellular membrane, which at first is limpid and colourless, and contains little albumen, but becomes more yellow and more charged with albumen as the inflammation advances. Then it becomes semi-gelatinous, depending on a small admixture of fibrin with it. Bloody striae and puncta now appear in it, the fibrin becomes more abundant, blood is poured out in a pure state, and finally pus is formed. These suc- cessive degenerations are fully exhibited in the section of an inflamed part, beginning from the circumference to the centre, and correspond precisely with the effusions which take place from the surfaces of inflamed membranes, being in fact so many degenera- tions of the natural secretions of the parts. From these facts, therefore, it is obvious that inflammation induces a new state of the secretory function, and that all the results of inflammation are the consequence of this modification, an inference which perfectly coincides with Mr. Hunter’s views of suppuration, although it is opposed to those of M. Gendrin, who supposes that the various matters effused in inflammation are spon- taneously convertible into pus, without the aid of the proper vessels. (Op. cit., ii. 471. (1447, 1448.)) 2. The facts which relate to the influence of the nervous system in the production of inflammation are neither numerous nor precise, which is probably the reason why this part of the subject has received less attention than the state of the capillaries. There329 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. more of the healthy red when near to the source of the circulation, than when far from it. This increase of red appears to arise from two causes; can be no doubt of the general analogy which exists between the reparation of the ac- cidental lesions of the frame, and the ordinary nutrition of the body, and also that the functions of secretion, excretion, absorption, sensibility, and the due venalization of the blood, are all more or less modified and affected by the process of inflammation ; so far, therefore, as these functions are dependent on or liable to be affected by the nervous system in a state of health, so far it seems reasonable to conclude that they are similarly affected in the process of inflammation. 1. The circulation and nutrition of parts are greatly impaired by a paralysis of the nerves, while, from the best observation of phy- siologists, it appears that deficiency or imperfect development of the normal organization is exactly correspondent to the deficiency or imperfect development of the corresponding portions of the spinal marrow. 2. The experiments of physiologists have demonstrated that the functions of secretion and excretion, and the general offices of a part, are greatly dependent on the integrity of the nervous system. The urine is not secreted after decapitation, nor the gastric juice after the division of the eighth pair of nerves. 3. The nutrition of the body is affected by various influences of the mind, which can only be supposed to operate through the medium of the nerves. 4. Intense pain often ushers in the inflammatory attack, and precedes every other apparent symptom. So ! a^so hysterical and sympathetic pains, obviously depending on some distant source, often excite inflammation, while the operation of cold can only be explained on the same principle. From facts of this kind some have inferred the invariable precedence of some ! disturbance of the nervous system. 5. Metastatic inflammations are plainly referrible to the same cause, unless they are to be explained on the humoral pathology. Thus also 11 the appearances of local inflammation, especially of the exanthematous eruptions, are : often preceded by constitutional rigors and fever, which plainly evince an antecedent i | disturbance of the nervous system. 6. Hushing, the contraction of the extreme capil- laries from fear and other causes, and the effects produced by the sudden crushing of the nervous centres, are proofs of the influence which the nervous system has over the circulation. 7. Division of the fifth pair of nerves gives rise to inflammation and conse- quent destruction of the globe of the eye. Similar effects have been known to ensue from compression of the fifth pair within the cranium (Med. Gaz., i. 531.), or by division of the nerve of a horse’s foot above the fetlock joint {op. cil., xvi. 140.) ; and occasion- ally in the human subject, when the principal nerves of the limb have been divided by a gunshot wound, inflammation and mortification have taken place. The interesting facts communicated on this subject by Mr. Earle (Med. Chir. Tr., vii. 173.) render it probable that these effects depend on the impairment of vitality consequent on the de- ficient innervation, which renders parts incapable of supporting stimuli, which in a healthy state would not be injurious. The sloughing of the nates in injuries of the spinal ; marrow, and of frost-bitten parts when hastily restored to life, strongly corroborate this opinion. 8. Direct irritation of the adjacent nerves has sometimes been found to excite inflammation at their extremities. (Phil. Trans. 1814, p. 583; Med. Gaz., i. 531 ; Med. Chir. Trans., vii. 191.) 9. The generally acknowledged fact that the condition of the nervous system has great effect in determining the course of common inflammation. . roni facts> therefore, it is clear that the nervous system exercises an important i influence in inflammation, although from the illustrations which have been given, it is i eTua*’> clear that this influence is rather of a negative than a positive kind. In fact J 7C 1)1 l^lc nerves in inflammation appears to hold precisely the same relation to i *118 act‘°“ t'liU d°es lo the other organic functions of the body. It is regulative, hut | out essential.]THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 330 the first is a dilatation of the vessels, whereby a greater quantity of blood is allowed to pass into those vessels which only admitted serum or lymph before*. The second is owing probably to new vessels being set up in the extravasated uniting coagulating lymph. This colour is gradu- ally lost in the surrounding parts if the inflammation is of the healthy kind, but in many others it has a determined edge, as in the true ery- sipelatous, and in some specific diseases, as in the smallpox, where its quick termination is a sign of health. [Swelling.']-*—From the account I have given of the immediate effects of inflammation of the cellular membrane (in which I include the larger cavities), the volume of the part inflamed must be increased. This, when a common consequence of inflammation, is not circumscribed, but rather diffused. As the inflammation, however, begins in a circum- scribed part (which is at least the case with that arising from violence), the inflammation, as I just now observed, is always the greatest nearest to that point, and is gradually lost in the surrounding parts, the swell- ing of course being the greatest at or nearest to this point, and it is also lost in the surrounding sound parts. This takes place, more or less, ac- cording to the constitution, or the situation of the inflammation; for if the constitution be strong and healthy, the surrounding parts will sym- pathize less with the point of irritation, so that inflammation and its consequences, viz. extravasation, will be less diffused. There will be less of the serum, and of course a purer coagulating lymph, so that the swelled parts will be firmer; but in some specific diseases or dissimilar parts, as a gland, it has a more determined edge, the surrounding parts not so readily taking on specific diseased action as in other cases. In this both the colour and swelling correspond very much, since they both depend on the same principle. This increase of volume is owing to the extravasation of the coagu- lating lymph and some serum. In proportion to the inflammation (the degree of which depends on the causes above mentioned,) this effect is more or less, and therefore is greatest at the point of inflammation, be- coming less and less as it extends into the surrounding parts, till it is insensibly lost in them. The extravasation of the serum along with the coagulating lymph is, probably, not a separation of itself, as in a dropsy, but a part of it being separated from the lymph in the coagulation of that fluid, is squeezed into the surrounding cellular membrane, where there is but little extra- * The tunica conjunctiva of the eye when inflamed is a striking instance of this; but the visible progress of inflammation I have already described in the experiment on the dog, p. 27‘J.331 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. vacation, and where the cells are not united by it". Thus the circum- ference of such swellings is a little cedematous ; but the whole of the serum, if there be a depending part, will move thither, and distend it considerably, as in the foot in consequence of an inflammation in the leg. But in most cases there is a continued extravasation of serum, long after the extravasation of the coagulating lymph is at an end; so that depending parts will continue cedematous while the inflammation is re- solving, or while suppuration, or even healing is going on. The whole swelling looks like a part of the body only a little changed, without any appearance of containing extraneous matter; and indeed it is simply , I T .. _ 1 J 1 f°rmed by an extravasation of fluids without their having undergone any visible or material change, except coagulation. [Pain.] As few uncommon operations can go on in an animal body without affecting the sensations, and as the first principle of sensation arises from some uncommon action, or alteration being made in the na- tural position or arrangement of the parts, wre should naturally suppose i that the sensation would be in some degree according to those effects, and the sensibility of the parts. One can easily form an idea of an al- ' teration in the structure of parts giving sensation which may even be carried to pain, but that the simple action of parts should produce sen- sations and even violent pain is but little known, or at least has been, ! I believe, but little attended to; all these effects, I think, may justly be included under the term spasm*; at least we are led by analogy to sup- pose that they belong to that class. By spasm I should understand a contraction of a muscle without the leading and natural causes. Thus, the contraction of a muscle of the leg, called the cramp, gives considerable pain, often violent; as also the tetanus ; and when in a less degree, as in the twinkling of the eyelid, it gives only sensation, whereas if the muscles were to act by the will ino sensation would be produced. We find that those sensations are more or less acute, according to the quickness or slowness of tho progress of these causes ; from whence we are naturally led to assign two causes, which must always attend ; one another; for when both do not take place at the same time, the mind * How far a nerve from a part, or how far the materia vit* of a part, can act so as ! t0iC0nvey ^nsation I do not know; but we all know that an involuntary action of a Voliintnrxr ntuccln />»• < _ .• « . »•> uiwiuiiiaiy uu iuii Ul voluntary muscle, or the spontaneous action of an involuntary muscle, will produce it. j * [This accords with the opinion of Dr. B. C. Babington, who has attempted to prove | that the fibrin and ^rum are always effused in the same relative proportions to each I °ther'. 0baervation> however, and the account which has been formerly given (see note, j l'”* i-‘‘s-) ol the gradual transformation of the secretions of an inflamed part, are onnosed j to this notion.—Med. Chir. Trans., xvi. 311.] 1TIIE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 332 then remains insensible to the alteration. This is its being produced in a given time, for the alteration in the position of the parts may be pro- duced so slowly as not to keep pace with sensation, which is the case with many indolent tumours, ascites, etc.; on the other hand, this al- teration in the natural position of parts may be so quick as to exceed sensation, and therefore there is a certain medium, which produces the greatest pain. The actions I have been describing being pretty quick in their effects, we cannot fail to see why the pain from the inflammation must be con- siderable ; however, the pain is not the same in all the different stages. In the adhesive state of the inflammation it is generally but very incon- siderable, especially if it is to go no further, and is perhaps more of a heavy than an acute pain; when it happens on the skin it often begins with an itching, but as the inflammation is passing from the adhesive to the suppurative, the parts then undergo a greater change than before, and the pain grows more and more acute, till it becomes very consider- able. The nerves also acquire at that time a degree of sensibility, which renders them much more susceptible of impression than when they are in their natural state; thus, an inflamed part is not only painful in it- self, but it communicates impressions to the mind independent of pain, which do not arise from a natural sound part. This pain increases every time the arteries are dilated, whence it would appear that the arteries do not contract by their muscular power in their systole, for if they did, we might expect a considerable pain in that action, which would be at the full of the pulse. Whether this pain arises from the distension of the artery by the force of the heart, or whether it arises from the action of distension from the force of the artery itself, is not easily determined. We know that diseased muscles give much pain in their contraction, perhaps more than they do when stretched*. That the degree of inflammation which becomes the cause of adhe- sions gives but little pain, is proved from the dissections of dead bodies, for we seldom or never find a body in dissection which has not adhe- sions in some of the larger cavities; and yet it may reasonably be sup- posed that many of these persons never had any acute symptoms or * This is very evident in the bladder of urine when inflamed, for in the contraction of that viscus to expel the urine there is more pain than in the dilatation; indeed the distension is gradunl; and when the urine is wholly evacuated, the irritation produced by the contraction still continues, which produces a continuance of the straining2. * [It seems more reasonable to suppose that the pain in this instance is produced by the compression of the inflamed and highly sensible mucous membrane of the bladder against itself. The first efforts to evacuate the urine are not nearly so painful as those which follow.]TIIE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 333 i violent pain in those parts; indeed we find many strong adhesions upon the opening of dead bodies, in parts which the friends of these persons never heard mentioned, during life, as the subject of a single complaint. That adhesions can be produced from very slight inflammation, is proved in ruptures in consequence of wearing a truss; for we find the - slight pressure of a truss exciting such action as to thicken parts, by which means the two sides of the sac are united, though there be hardly any sensation in the part; we also see, in cases where this inflammation arises from violence, that it gives little or no pain. A man shall be shot it through the cavity of the abdomen, and if none of the contained parts are materially hurt, the adhesive inflammation shall take place in all the internal parts contiguous to the wound made by the ball, and yet no _ great degree of pain shall be felt. This assertion is still proved by the little pain suffered after many bruises, where there is evident inflam- mation ; and in simple fractures the pain from the inflammation is very trifling, whatever it may be from the laceration of the parts. But this will be according to the degree of inflammation, what stage it is in, and what parts are inflamed, as will be fully explained hereafter. We find it a common principle in the animal machine, that every part ]i increases in some degree according to the action requireda. Thus we :find muscles increase in size when much exercised ; vessels become larger in proportion to the necessity of supply, as, for instance, in the gravid uterus: the external carotids in the stag, also, when his horns are growing, are much larger than at any other time ; and I have ob- served, that in inflammation the vessels become larger, more blood passes, and there appear to be more actions taking place ; but the nerves do not seem to undergo any change. The nerves of the gravid uterus are the same as when it is in the natural state ; neither do the branches of the fifth and seventh pair of nerves in the stag become larger; and in inflammation of the nerves their blood-vessels are enlarged, and have coagulating lymph thrown into their interstices, but the nerve itself is not increased, so as to bring the part to the state of a natural part, fitted for acute sensation, which shows that the motions of the nerves have nothing to do with the ceconomy of the part; they are only the messen- gers of intelligence and orders. It appears that only the action of the materia vitae in the inflamed parts is increased, and this increase of ac- tion in the inflamed part is continued along the nerve which is not in- [ This observation may be true of those parts which have naturally a fibrous tex- ture, but certainly not of the internal viscera of the body and organs of the senses, the pertection ol which is not observed to bear any proportion to their size. How far the brain is subject to this law it is for the cranioseopist to decide.]the adhesive inflammation. 334 flamed, to the mind, so that the impression on the sensorium is, probably, equal to the action of the inflamed materia vitre. Ihe quantity of natural sensibility is, I believe, proportioned to the quantity of nerves, under any given circumstance; but I apprehend the diseased sensibility does not take place at all in this proportion, but in proportion to the diseased action of the materia vita?. Thus a tendon has very little sensation when injured in a natural state ; but let that tendon become inflamed, or otherwise diseased, and the sensation shall be very acute. It may not be improper to observe, that many parts of the body in a natural state give peculiar sensations when impressed; and when those parts are injured they give likewise pain peculiar to themselves ; it is this latter effect which I am to consider. I may also observe, that the same mode of impression shall give a peculiar sensation to one part, while it shall give pain to another. Thus, what will produce sickness in the stomach, will produce pain in the colon. When the sensation of pain is in a vital part it is somewhat different from most of those pains that are common. Thus, when the pain arises from an injury done to the head, the sensation is a heavy stupifying pain, rendering the person affected unfit to pay attention to other sensations, and is often attended with sickness, from the stomach sympathizing with it. When the pain is in the heart or lungs it is more acute, and is very much confined to the part diseased. W hen in the stomach and intestines, especially the upper part of them, it is a heavy oppressive sickly pain, but more or less attended with sickness according to its pressure or proximity to the stomach; for when situated in the colon it is more acute, and less at- tended with sickness. We cannot give a better illustration of this than by taking notice of the effects of a purge. If we take such a purge as will produce both sickness and griping, we can easily trace the progress of the medicine in the canal; when in the stomach it makes us sick, but we soon find the sickness becoming more faint, by which we can judge that it has proceeded to the duodenum; and then a kind of uneasiness, approaching to pain, succeeds; when this is the case we may be certain that the medicine is passing along the jejunum ; it then begins to give a sickish griping pain, which I conceive belongs to the ilium; and when in the colon it is a sharp pain, soon after which a motion takes place. I he liver, testicles, and uterus arc subject nearly to the same kind of pain as the stomach. A tendon, ligament, and bone give something of the same kind of pain, though not so oppressive, namely, a dull and heavy pain, often attended with some little sickness, the stomach gene- rally sympathizing in such cases. But the skin, muscles, and the cel-THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 335 i' lular membrane, in common, give an acute pain, which rather rouses than oppresses, if not too great. All of this will be further mentioned when We treat of each part. One cause of this variety of sensations, according as the parts in- flamed are vital or not vital, seems to consist in the different systems of materia vita; with which those parts are supplied, having, probably, nerves peculiarly constructed for this purpose; for all the parts which aro supplied with branches from the par vagum and intercostals affect the patient with lowness of spirits from the very first attack of the inflam- mation : the actions of those parts are involuntary, and therefore are more immediately connected with the living principle, and consequently that principle is affected whenever anything affects these nerves. The other system of the materia vitae, when affected by this inflammation, rather rouses at first the constitution, which shows signs of strength, unless the parts have rather weak powers of recovery, such as tendon, bone, etc., or are far from the heart, in which cases the signs of weak- ness sooner or later appear; hence it would seem that this difference in the constitution, arising from the difference in parts and their situ- ation, arises from the constitution having a disease which it cannot so easily manage, as it can in those parts which are not vital, and in parts that are near to the heart; which circumstances alone become a cause of 1 irritation in the constitution. §.3. The Heat of Parts in Inflammation. When I was treating of the blood I observed that the heat of the animal was commonly considered as connected with that fluid; but as I had not made up my mind about the cause of the heat of animals, not being satisfied with the opinions hitherto given, I did not endeavour to offer any account of that property; but I shall now consider this power when the animal is under disease, where it would appear often to be diminished, and often increased, and of course the animal often becomes | colder and hotter than its natural temperature. There is an endeavour to bring the heat of a living body to the tem- perature of the surrounding medium, but in the more perfect animals j this is prevented by the powers in the animal to support its own tem- perature, more especially in and near the vital parts1*; therefore, in I [This uniformity of temperature is not, however, by any means so universal, even in health and in the higher animals, as has often been supposed. De la lloche and lierger found that warm-blooded mammalia, exposed for long periods to a high tempe-THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 336 making experiments, to ascertain any variation, it is not necessary to ascertain at the same time the temperature of the atmosphere. Heat, I imagine, is a sign of strength and power of constitution, al- though it may often arise from an increased action either of weak con- stitutions or of weakened parts. Heat is a positive action, while cold is the reverse, therefore producing weakness, and often arising from a diminished action of strong parts0. It has not yet been considered whether an animal has the power of producing heat equally in every part of the body, although, from what is generally advanced on this subject, we are led to suppose that every part has this power, or whether it is carried from some one source of heat by the blood to every part; this may probably not be easily deter- mined ; but I am apt to suspect there is a principal source of heat, al- though it may not be in the blood itself, the blood being only affected by having its source near the source of heat. That this principle resides in the stomach is probable, or at least I am certain that affections of the stomach will produce either heat or cold. There are affections of the stomach which produce the sensation of heat in it, and the air that arises in eructations feels hot to the mouth of the person; but whether these sensations arise from actual heat, or from sensation only, I have not been able to determine. Stimulating sub- stances applied to the stomach will produce a glow. Affections of the mind produce the same effect, which last circumstance might seem to contradict the idea of its arising from the stomach; but I suspect that the stomach sympathizes with those actions of the brain which form the mind, and then produces heat, which will be better illustrated in treating of cold. I suspect that the cold bath produces heat in the rature, experienced an elevation equal to 10°, and sometimes 13°. Dr. Edwards and M. Despretz found a difference of 6° in birds in the winter and summer months, being in the former 105° and in the latter 111°. Dr. Davy found that the standard heat of the Cingalese varied from 1° to 2° above the average in more temperate climates. Dr. Fordyce and his friends experienced an elevation of 2° or 3° in their experiments on heated air, and De la Roche an elevation of 5° after remaining seventeen minutes in a vapour bath at 120°. The singular power which the body possesses of accommodating itself to the extremes of external circumstances, is well exemplified by a fact recorded by Capt. Lyon in Capt. Parry’s second voyage to the arctic regions, where the tempe- rature of eleven out of sixteen foxes, killed in Winter Isle (lat. 06° 11', temp. —3° to — 32°) varied from 100° to 106|° at their vital parts ; as well as by the counter-fact that the temperature of persons exposed to very high degrees of natural heat, as at Sierra Leone, (100° to 103°), Senegal (108$° to 117$°), Oronoco (110° to 115°), &c., docs not in ge- neral vary more than a few degrees from the standard heat. How this is accomplished has been fully shown by M. De la Roche. Journal dr Physiologie, Ixiii., lxxi., and lxvii.J * [See Note, §. i. 279.]THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 337 •sarnie way, from the sympathizing intercourse between the skin and the stomach. That diseases augment or lessen this power in the animal is evident; i' for in many diseases the animal becomes much hotter, and in many others much colder than is usual to it. This fact was first discovered by simple sensation alone, both to the patients themselves and the prac- ■ titioner, before the absolute measurement of the degrees of heat by in- - struments was known; but it was impossible that such knowledge of it could be accurate, for we find by experiment that the measurement of degrees of heat by sensation is very vague. This happens because the degree of heat in ourselves (which in such experiments is the instru- ment) is not of one standard, but must vary pretty much before we are made sensible of the difference, and therefore there can be only a rela- tive knowledge respecting our own heat at the time. But now our measurement is more determined, and can be brought even nearer to the truth than is absolutely necessary to be known in disease. The increase and decrease of the heat of an animal body may be di- vided into constitutional and local. The constitutional arises from a constitutional affection, and may arise primarily in the constitution itself; or it probably may arise secondarily, as from a local disease with which the constitution sympathizes ; but of this I am not yet certain, for from several experiments made to ascertain this point, it seemed to appear that local inflammation had little power of increasing the heat of the body beyond the natural standard, although the body was under the influence of the inflammation by sympathy, called the symptomatic fever ; but if the heat of the body is below the natural heat, or that heat where actions, whether natural or diseased, are called forth, then the heat of the body is raised to its natural standard*. As it is the principle of increase of local heat in inflammation I am now to consider, it should be first ascertained how far such a principle exists in a part, and what that principle may be; the constitutional orinciple being in some measure not to the present purpose, although it nay throw some light on the difference between the powers of the con- stitutional and those of the local principle. It is said that disease, as ever, has been known to raise the heat of the body to twelve degrees ibove the natural heat; and if so, then there is in such cases either an ncreased power or an increased exertion of that power; and to know vhether this arises only from a constitutional affection at large, or whether it can take place in parts when the constitution is affected by hose parts, is worthy of inquiry. * Vide Animal (Economy, iv. 131.338 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. The principal instance of supposed increased local heat is in inflam- mation, and we find that external parts inflamed do actually become hotter; but let us see how far the increase goes. From all the obser- vations and experiments I have made, I do not find that a local inflam- mation can increase the local heat above the natural heat of the animal; and when in parts whose natural heat is inferior to that which is at the source of the circulation, it does not rise so high : those animals, too, which appear to have no power, either of increase or decrease in health, naturally appear to be equally deficient in disease, as will be seen in the experiments. I suspect that the blood has an ultimate standard heat in itself when in health, and that nothing can increase that heat but some universal or constitutional affection; and probably the sympathetic fever is such as has no power in this way, and that the whole power of local inflam- mation is only to increase it a little in the part, but that it cannot bring it above the standard heat at the source, nor even up to it in parts that naturally or commonly do not come up to it, as just above mentioned. As inflammation is the principal instance capable of producing local increased heat, I have taken the opportunity of examining inflammations, ; both when spontaneous and in consequence of operations. I have also made several experiments for that purpose, which are similar to opera- tions, and cannot say that I ever saw, from all these experiments and observations, a case where the heat was really so much increased as it appeared to be to the sensations. Experiments on Internal Surfaces. S Experiment I. A man had the operation for the radical cure of the i hydrocele performed at St. George’s Hospital. When I opened the tu- nica vaginalis I immediately introduced the ball of the thermometer into it, and close by the side of the testicle. The mercury rose exactly to 92°. The cavity was filled with lint, dipped in salve, that it might be taken out at will; the next day, when inflammation was come on, the dressings were taken out, and the ball of the thermometer intro- , duced as before, when it arose to 98-5° exactly. Here was an increase of heat of 640, but even this was not equal to that of the blood, probably, at the source of the circulation in the same man. This experiment I have repeated more than once, and with nearly the same event. As the human subject cannot always furnish us with opportunities of ascertaining the fact, and it is often impossible to make experiments339 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. ' when proper cases occur, I was led to make such experiments on ani- mals as appeared to me proper for determining the fact; but in none of • them could I ever increase the inflammatory heat so as to make it equal t to the natural heat of the blood at its source. Experiment II. I made an incision into the thorax of a dog ; the wound was made about the centre of the right side, and the thermo- meter pushed down, so as to come in contact, or nearly so, with the diaphragm. The degree of heat was 101°; a large dossil of lint was if put into the wound to prevent its healing by the first intention, and covered over by a sticking- plaster. The dog was affected with a shiver- ing. The day following the lint was extracted, and the thermometer again introduced; the degree of heat appeared exactly the same, viz. 101°. JThis dog recovered. Experiment III. An oblique incision was made about two inches deep into the gluteal muscles of an ass, and into this wound was intro- duced a tin canula about an inch and half long, so that half an inch of the bottom of the wound projected beyond the canula; into this canula y was introduced a wooden plug, wdiich projected half an inch beyond the ■canula, so as to fill up the bottom of the wound, and which kept that part of the wound from uniting. The whole was fastened into the wound by threads attached to the skin. Immediately upon making the wound the ball of the thermometer was introduced into it to the bottom, and the mercury rose to 100° exactly, as it did also at the same time in the vagina. On the next morning the wooden plug w-as taken out, and the ball of the thermo- meter (being previously wormed to 99°,) wos introduced down to the bottom of the wound, which projected beyond the canula, and the mer- cury rose to 100°. The wooden plug was returned and secured as be- fore. In the evening the same experiment wos repeated, and the mer- cury rose to 100°. Friday morning it rose only to 99°. Friday evening it rose to near 101-j.0. Saturday morning, 99°, and in the evening 100°. A similar experiment to this was made on a dog, and the heat wras 101°. The day following the heat was the same, as also on the third day, when suppuration was taking place. Experiment IV. Although in the experiment upon the dog, by making an opening into the thorax so as to excite an inflammation there, and to affect his constitution, the heat of the part was not increased ; yet in order to be more clear with regard to the result of such an ex- periment, a wmund was made into the abdomen of an ass, and a solution of common salt and water thrown in (about a handful to a pint of water), to excite a universal inflammation in the cavity of the abdomen, j produced great pain and uneasiness, so as to make the animal lie z 2340 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION; dowii and roll, becoming as restless as horses when griped. The next morning, Friday, the thermometer was introduced into the vagina, and the mercury stood at 99-y0, nearly the same heat as before the experi- ment; in the evening, 101^°. Saturday morning, IOO40; evening, 100q°. Ihe vagina, therefore, was not rendered hotter by an inflammation which produced what we may call the sympathetic fever. The animal was now killed, and on examining tlie abdomen, the side where the wound was made appeared much inflamed, as well as the intestine op- posite to this part. All of them adhered together, and the intestines surrounding this part of the adhesions had their peritoneal coat become extremely vascular, and matter was formed in the abdomen. But that the heat of a part can be increased above tlte common stand- ard of a healthy person is certain, when it is such a part as is naturally of the standard heat, as, for instance, the abdomen. For in Lord Hert- ford s servant, who was tapped eight times, and seven of them in thir- teen weeks, the seventh time I held the ball of a thermometer in the stream, as it flowed from the canula of the trocar, and it raised the mercury to 101° exactly, through the whole time. Twelve days after 1 tapped him the eighth time; the water was pretty clear: when I held the thermometer in the stream it rose to 104°. Now as the heat of the abdomen was 104°, wre must, I think, suppose that the general heat of the man would also be 104°. Experiments on Secreting Surfaces. Experiment I. I took the degree of heat of a dog’s rectum, by in- troducing the thermometer about three inches; and when it was ascer- tained, four grains of corrosive sublimate were dissolved in two ounces of water, and the solution thrown up the rectum. The day following the thermometer was again introduced, and then I found the heat some- what increased, but not quite a degree. As far as one might judge from external appearances, the rectum was very much inflamed, as there was a considerable external swelling, forming a thick elevated ring round the anus. Experiment II. I introduced into the rectum of an ass the thermo- meter, and the mercury rose to 9S-J° exactly: this was repeated several times with the same result. I then threw up the rectum an injection of flour of mustard and ginger, mixed in about a pint of water. About twelve hours after I introduced the thermometer, and it rose to 99|°. The injection was repeated several times, but the heat did not increase. Experiment III. To irritate the rectum still more, I threw up a so-T1IE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 341 lotion of corrosive sublimate, and about twelve hours after I introduced the thermometer, and found no increase of heat. Twenty hours after I introduced the thermometer, but the heat was the same. Sixty hours I after the injection, the thermometer being introduced, the mercury rose h to 100° exactly. This injection had irritated so much as to give a very |.; severe tenesmus, and even blood passed. Experiment IV. The natural heat of the vagina of a young ass was 100°. A solution of corrosive sublimate, as much as would dissolve in i; a teacup full of water, viz. about ten grains, was injected into the va- !; gina. In about two hours after the mercury fell to 99°. Thursday ; morning, 99°; evening, 100°. Friday morning, 99° ; evening, near to 101°. Saturday morning, 99°; evening, 100°. This experiment was repeated several times upon the same ass with the same result. In these experiments it can hardly be said that the heat was increased. That the inflammation had been raised to a very considerable degree was plain, for it produced a discharge of matter which was often bloody, and upon killing the ass for another experiment, the following appear- ances were found in the uterus. The horns of the uterus were filled with serum, and the inflammation had run so high by the stimulating injections which were used for the experiments on the vagina, that the coagulating lymph had been thrown out so as almost to obliterate the vagina, uterus, etc. by those adhesions which are the ultimate effects of inflammation on secreting canals, while suppuration is the ultimate effect of inflammation on internal surfaces : there were no signs of in- flammation on the external surface of the uterus, which is covered by the peritonaeum. It may just be remarked, that in most of those experiments the heat in the morning was a degree less than in the evening; and I may also | remark, that this is commonly the case in the natural heat of the animal. I wished to know whether such animals as have little or no power of varying their natural heat had a power of increasing their heat in con- sequence of injuries, for which purpose I opened into circumscribed ca- vities in frogs, toads, and snails, and at different periods, after the opening was made, the thermometer was introduced. As the heat of those animals is principally from the atmosphere, the external heat is to be connected with the experiments. Experiments on cold-blooded Animals. Nov. 27, 1788. A healthy toad and frog, after having the heat in the stomach ascertained, had openings made through the skin of thethe adhesive inflammation. 342 belly, large enough to admit a thermometer, and the orifice was kept open by a piece of sponge. 1 Atmosphere, 36°; stomach of both, 40°; uuderskin of the belly, 40°. Atm. Frog. Toad. Stom. Half an hour after the opening .. 35° Under the skin. 40° 40° O c Hour and a half . . 39 39 Two hours and a half 39 39 - The abdomen was now opened, and a piece of sponge kept in the orifice. Aim. Frog. Toad. Stom. ance The heat 3 go Hour and a half after opening .... 36 Four hours and a half 38 Part of the left oviduct protruded, of the natural colour and appear- Abdomen. 40° 40° 39 39 39 39 40° 39 Atm. Frog. Toad. XNine hours after 38° 3g° 33° Twenty-one hours and a half 35 35 35 The protruded oviduct was more vascular, and of a uniformly red ap- pearance ; it was returned into the belly and retained there. Stotn. 38° 35 Atm. Frog. Toad. Stom. 32° 32° 32° 32° 34 34 34 34 Twenty-four hours 32° Forty-six hours 34 The toad died, and the frog was become very weak and languid : part of the oviduct protruded, and had the small vessels loaded with blood. It lived one hundred and eighteen hours ; that is, seventy-two longer than the toad, during which period its heat corresponded with the at- mosphere. Upon examining the abdomen after death, there were no adhesions nor any appearances from inflammation, except on the pro- truded oviduct. Some healthy shell-snails lmd openings made into the lungs, and their heat ascertained at the following times: The heat at the time One hour and a half . Six hours and a half Ten hours Twenty-four hours . Aim. Snail. 34° 38° 32 32 32 35 31 36 30 30TIIE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 343 To ascertain the standard heat of a snail: Atm. Snail. A frcsli lively snail had its heat in the lungs .. 30° 36° 28 35 30 37 Experiments to ascertain the heat of worms, leeches, and snails, when compared with the atmosphere, and the changes produced in their heat by inflammation. Exp. I. Heat of the air in the room 56° water in the room 57 some earth-worms 58* Exp. II. Water as a standard 56* Leeches in the same quantity 57 Exp. III. Water as a standard Fresh egg Leeches alone .... Worms alone Air Worms .. ' Leeches.. Slugs.. . . Air Worms .. ' Leeches.. Slugs.... They were all very weak and dying" two hours after being wounded twenty-four hours after being wounded 56 55 60 57 54 58 57 58 55 55 55 55 * [The production and phenomena of animal temperature have been referred to more specifically elsewhere. (I. 278, and IV. 131.) It only, therefore, becomes necessary to mention here the intimate association which exists in all instances between the calorific and respiratory functions, so that throughout the animal scries the degree of temperature evolved is in accurate correspondence with the elaborateness of the respiratory appa- ratus and the perfection with which the chemical changes on the blood are accomplished, leaving no doubt in the mind as to the relation in which these functions stand to each other. If we adopt the view formerly suggested (see note, p. 94), of the absorp- tion of oxygen into the blood, and its gradual conversion into carbonic acid in the course of the circulation, especially in the peripheral capillaries, it will not be difficult to ex- plain the variations which sometimes occur in the local temperature, depending, as they would seem to do, on the varying afflux of blood to particular parts, or to the varying activity of the nutritive functions. That these circumstances, however, are greatly under the dominion of the nervous system, the observations and experiments of Ilrodie, Home, Earle, Wilson Philip, Mayo, Le Gallois, and others have incontestably proved (Phil. Trans., ci. 36, cii. 380, cxv. 7; Med. Cliir. Trans., vii. 173; Ann. de Chimie, iv (1817) j and Wilson Philip, On the Vital Functions, 2nd edit., p. 168), although in no344 HIE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. §.4. Of the Production of Cold in Inflammation. he production of cold is certainly an operation which the more per- feet animals are endowed with ; and this power would appear to be both constitutional and local, similar to the power of producing heat. As the word inflammation implies heat, and has been used to express that action of the vessels where heat is commonly an effect, it may seem s range that we should treat of cold in the action of inflammation. But probably we have no action in the body that is not attended with an occasional production of cold. How far this takes place in parts I do not know; but that it takes place constitutionally, from almost every affection, is evident, whether it be inflammatory feV°er or local inflam, mation. As an animal has no standard of cold but at the source, which is also the standard of heat, it is perhaps impossible to ascertain with certainty the degree of cold produced either by disease or from the sur- rounding cold ; but perhaps, by comparing the part suspected of being colder, than is natural, from disease, with a similar part under the same external influence of heat and cold, as, for instance, one limb with the other, or one hand with the other, a pretty fair inference may be made; and we often find that diseased parts shall become extremely cold, while from other circumstances than disease they should not be so. I suspect that coldness in disease arises either from weakness, or a olher niniiner dependent than all the other functions of organic life. The observation of Hunter, that the generation of heat cannot essentially “depend upon the nervous system, for it is found in animals that have no brain or nerves,” is still further corro- borated by the fact that the same phenomenon is observed in vegetables, in which there )s still less pretence or proof of a nervous system. Thus, during the germination of seeds, the temperature is elevated at least ten degrees. Hubert found that the ther- mometer was raised to 108“ Fahrenheit when surrounded by the spadices of the Arum cprdifolutm during the process of fecundation, the temperature of the atmosphere being 70°; and Sennebier, that it was raised from 70“ to 143° under the same circumstances. (Ellis on Respiration, p. 204.) The phenomena which appear most difficult to account for are the occasional exaltation of temperature in parts, beyond the standard heat of the body; especially where, as in fractures and injuries of the spine, the cause would ap- pear not only inadequate to the effect, but to have a directly contrary tendency. In inflammation, on the contrary, the reparative and nutritive functions are in an undue state of activity, and therefore it is reasonable to suppose that the peculiar changes con- sequent on the circulation of the blood are carried on with greater vigour. I he author, it may be observed, accounts for the production of animal heat by refer- ring to the vital principle, which, after all, throws no light upon the subject, nor gives any account of the immediate agency by which this is produced. That the stomach may often indirectly become the cause of the production of partial cold, is readily ex- plained, when we consider the influence which it is admitted that the nervous system exercises over the function of calorification, and the power which the stomach has of affecting the former.]345 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. feel or consciousness of weakness, in the whole constitution or a part, joined with a peculiar mode of action at the time. Thus we have many constitutional diseases beginning with absolute coldness, which seems afterwards to terminate in a sensitive coldness only, as the cold fit of an ague; for I apprehend that the sickness which generally precedes such complaints produces universal cold, and once having produced the action of the body arising from absolute cold, the action goes on for some time, although the cause no longer exists, which continues the sensation; and although the absolute coldness is gone, yet the action of the parts, which is a continuation of and therefore similar to the action of the ah- solute cold, is capable of destroying itself by producing the hot fit, if there be power or disposition. That weakness, or a feel of weakness, produces cold is evident, and that universal or constitutional cold arises from the stomach is also evi- dent ; for whenever we are made sick an universal coldness takes place; and this is best proved by producing sickness on aninuds that we cau kill, or that die while they are under these affections of the stomach. The experiments I made to ascertain this were not conducted with great accuracy, as I trusted in them entirely to my own sensations or feelings. Experiment I. I threw three grains of tartar emetic into the veins of a healthy bitch, the quantity of water near an ounce. In about twenty minutes she had a stool and voided some single tape-worms. Some of the stools were extremely thin, and made up principally of bile. Some time after she had two more stools, which were thin and bilious. She continued pretty easy for about three hours, but became a little con- vulsed, which increased, and at last she became senseless, with little twitchings; hardly breathing, except with the diaphragm, and having a low slow pulse. She was very cold to our feel, when applying our hand on the skin of the body. In about ten or twelve hours after the injection she died. Experiment II. I repeated the above experiment on another bitch, adding a full grain more to the medicine. She vomited in less than a minute after it was thrown in, and strained excessively hard, throwing up a great deal of froth, which was only the mucus of the stomach mixed up with the air in the act of retching. In less than three minutes she had a stool, which was pretty loose and partly of the natural appear- ance. She continued retching and purging for above an hour, and was extremely uneasy; at last she got into a dark corner and lay there, froth- ing at the mouth, was taken with convulsive twitchings like the former, and died in about five hours after the injection. I opened her body immediately after death, anti found the intestines, liver, and heart not so warm as we usually find them.346 the adhesive inflammation. I have known people who had affections of the stomach and bowels say that they had plainly the feeling of cold in their bellies. I knew a gentleman who told me that often when he threw the wind off his sto- mach it felt cold to his mouth and even to his hands, which was by much the best guide respecting sensation. A lady, near seventy years of age, has a violent cough, which often makes her puke, and what comes off her stomach feels like ice to the mouth. Affections of the mind also produce constitutional coldness ; but they are such affections as the stomach sympathizes with, producing sickness, shuddering, &c. A disagreeable idea or sight will sometimes give a quick sensation of sickness, and the skin shall sympathize with the stomach. It shall appear to begin, as it were, in the mouth or throat, as if some- thing there had a tendency to come up; the muscles of the neck shall become convulsed, and the head shall be violently shaken ; from thence a disagreeable feeling shall spread over the whole body, passing directly down the back to the feet, commonly expressed by saying, “ one’s flesh creeps; and hence the words shudder and horror express mental as well as bodily affections. Another action shall be joined with the cold, viz. the action of sweating, so that a cold sweat shall take place over the whole body. 1 his cold shall be partial, for under many diseases a partial cold sweat will sometimes come on, while other parts remain to- lerably temperate. §. 5. Of the time the Adhesive Inflammation commences after its cause ; and in what cases and parts it is imperfect in its consequences. It will be often impossible to determine the distance of time between the impression which becomes the cause of inflammation and the action itself; which will depend upon two circumstances, viz. the nature of the exciting cause, and the susceptibility for such action in the parts. In the exposure of internal surfaces, inflammation is perhaps sooner brought on than in most others; for the incitement is immediate, and there is no remission in the cause itself. In specific diseases the time is perhaps more regular, each having n determined interval between the application of the exciting cause and the appearance of the disease, al- though even in some of these there is a vast difference in the time after contamination ; but in those arising spontaneously it must be uncertain. \ et in some cases it can be pretty well ascertained, supposing sensation the first effect of the inflammatory impression ; and in such instancesT11E ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 347 we often find it very rapid. They shall be attacked with a violent pain in the part, so much so as hardly to be able to bear it, which shall be immediately succeeded with a violent inflammation. A lady was walking in her garden, and at once was attacked with a violent pain in the middle of the fore part of the thigh, which made her immediately lame. Soon after, the skin appeared discoloured, which spread nearly over one half of the thigh : this part became thick and swelled, which appeared to go as deep as the bone. It afterwards sup- purated ; all in a few days. This appeared to be a well-marked case. •The commencement of inflammation after accidents is more easily ascertained, for we must date it from the accident, and we find it is not immediate ; for after a wound has been received, inflammation does not begin for twelve, eighteen, or twenty-four hours. It sometimes happens, however, that the adhesive state cannot set bounds to itself, and therefore cannot set bounds to the suppurative. I his may be owing to two causes : the one is the violence of the inflam- mation, and quickness of the attack of the suppurative spreading before parts have had a sufficient union, and even perhaps joined with a spe- ■ cies °f suppuration from the very first, so that union is prevented. Se- ■ condly, the inflammation may, I suspect, be of the erysipelatous kind, especially when there is a tendency, from the beginning, to mortifica- tion. This mixing of the suppurative with the adhesive, or the hurry- ing on of the suppurative, or this mixture of the erysipelatous with the | others, I have frequently seen in the abdomen of women who have been attacked with the peritonaea! inflammation after childbirth, and which from these circumstances became the cause of their death. In such cruses we find matter mixed with coagulating lymph, as if formed with it; for without having been formed with it, it could not have mixed with it after coagulation. We find also coagulating lymph mixed with the matter, as it were, separated from the inflamed surface by the for- mation of the matter; and in those cases where there is a tendency to mortification from the beginning, as in strangulated ruptures, we often find the adhesive and suppurative inflammation going hand in hand. All of these causes and effects account for the violence of the symptoms, the quickness of the progress of the disease, and its fatal consequences, be- yond such inflammations as have only the true adhesive progress, or where it takes place perfectly prior to suppuration. It seems to appear, from observation, that some surfaces of the body do not so readily unite by the coagulating lymph as others, and there- fore on such surfaces there is commonly a much larger quantity of this matter thrown out than probably would have been if union had readily taken place; for we may suppose that where once union has taken place348 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. extravasation is at an end. Thus we see in (what we may suppose) inflammation of the heart, that the coagulating lymph is thrown out on the exterior surface in vast quantities, while at the same time the heart shall not adhere to the pericardium. This is not only seen in the human subject, but in other animals : in an ox the heart was furred all over, and in some places the coagulating lymph was near an inch in thick- ness. The external surface of such hearts has an uncommon appear- ance : the outer surface of the coagulable lymph is extremely irregular, appearing very much like the external surface of a sponge, while the base or attachment to the heart is very solid and firm. However, in many instances we find the pericardium adhering to the heart, and ge- nerally in pretty close contact, which would make us suppose that the extent of motion of those two parts on one another is not great. These adhesions affect the pulse much, which is a good reason why nature avoids them as much as possible. On the other hand, it seems dedu- cible from observation that neither the pia-mater nor dura-mater is apt to throw out much coagulating lymph, for here it would produce com- pression ; and therefore we seldom find adhesions between them, in consequence of such accidents as produce suppuration between these two membranes : we seldom if ever find the surrounding parts adhering so as to confine the matter to the suppurating surface. Inflammation of the skin, or such as approaches to the skin, produces in general a separation of the cuticle, often of the hair or the nails. These effects arise sooner or later, according to the nature and degree of the inflammation, but more particularly according to its nature ; they take place the least and latest in the true adhesive inflammation, which is always attended with the greatest strength. In such cases the se- paration does not happen till the inflammation has subsided; and, as a proof of this, in the gout it is least and latest of all, for this is always a healthy inflammation, otherwise it would not take place; but in weak habits, at the early part of the disease, there are often vesications, which are filled with serum, sometimes with coagulating lymph, &c., both of which are sometimes tinged with red blood. When the inflammation is of a weak kind, tending to mortification, the cuticle commonly sepa- rates early during the time of inflammation, almost beginning with it, and of course the vesications will be filled with serum, and often with the red globules. We may observe in wounds of the skin which arc not allowed to heal by the first intention, that a separation of the cuticle will take place at the edges of the wound, and this will extend accord- ing to the nature of the inflammation, which is according to the nature of the constitution. This will be attended with other concomitant ap- pearances, such as flabby edges and thin matter. I conceive in the weakthe ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION; 349 habit it depends on an action of the inflammation itself, but in the strong it depends on a state in which the parts are left to separate the cuticle. This separation arises, I apprehend, from a degree of weakness ap- proaching to a kind of death in the connexion between the cuticle and cutis, from life being in this part naturally very weak. In the begin- ning of mortification it is produced; in the cedematous and erysipelatous inflammations it is greatest, and in putrefaction of dead bodies it is the first operation. I suspect too that a blistering plaster, hot water, &c. only kill the uniting parts, by which means an irritation is produced in the cutis, and the extravasation is according to that irritation. The connexion of the cuticle is more or less destroyed in every in- flammation of the skin, for we seldom see an inflammation attack the skin but the cuticle comes off sooner or later. We generally observe it peeling off in flakes, after inflammation has subsided, and it begins near- est the point of inflammation*. §.6. Of the Uniting Medium in Inflammations. Every new substance that is formed is either for a salutary purpose, or it is diseased. The first consists either of adhesions or granulations, whether with the first or second intention; and these may be considered as a revival of the natural principles, and powers of growth, whereas I diseased substances are, as it were, monsters. In the adhesive inflammation, the vessels being enlarged, as above described, similar to what they are in the young subject, begin to sepa- rate from the mass some portion of the coagulating lymph, with some serum, and also red globules, and throw it out on the internal surface, probably through the exhaling vessels, or perhaps open new ones, and .cover the sides of those cells, which easily unite with the opposite, with which they are in contact, forming the first progress of adhesions. That this is really the case, and that this effect has taken place in consequence of inflammation, is evident from the following observations. In all large cavities where we can make our observations with certainty, when in the state of inflammation, we find diffused over the sides, or through * It may be observed, that when an inflammation attacks the finger-ends or toes, so as to produce suppuration either in the substance of these parts, although not larger than a pimple, or only on the surface of the cutis, an extensive separation of the cuticle takes place, not entirely from the inflammation, but assisted by it. This is owing, prin- cipally, to the cuticle in such places not giving way, being there strong, so that a seem- ing abscess almost occupies the whole finger, &c. This should he opened early to prevent this separation as much as possible, or to prevent the separation from extend- ing too far.350 the adhesive inflammation. the cavity, a substance exactly similar to the coagulating lymph when separated from the serum and red blood, after common bleeding. That the blood, when thrown out of the circulation from an inflammatory state of the vessels, as well as the blood itself, unites parts together, is probably best seen in the inflammation of the larger cavities above men- tioned. The following I shall give as an example, which I have often observed on the peritonaeum of those who have died in consequence of inflammation of this membrane. The intestines are more or less united to one another, and, according to the stage of the inflammation, this union is stronger or weaker; in some it is so strong as to require some force to pull them asunder * ; the smooth peritonaeal coat is, as it were, lost, having become cellular, like cellular membrane. When the vessels of this part are injected, we shall find that in those parts where a sepa- ration has been made by laceration, previous to the injecting, the injec- tion will appear on that surface like small spots or drops, which shows that the vessels had at least passed to the very surface of the intestines. In parts where the union was preserved I have observed the three following facts. On separating the united parts I have observed in some places the vessels come to the surface of the intestines, and then terminate all at once. In other places I could observe the vessels pass- ing from the intestine into the extravasated substance, and there rami- fying, so that the vessel was plainly continued from the old into the new. In a vast number of instances I have observed, that in the substance of the extravasation there were a great number of spots of red blood in it, so that it looked mottled. The same appearance was very observable on the surface of separation, between the old substance and the new, a good deal like petechial spots. How this red blood got here is the thing to be considered, especially as a good deal was within the substance of the eoagulum. Was it extravasated along with the coagulated lymph ? In this case I should have rather supposed it would have been more dif- fused, and if not diffused, more attached to the intestine, and not in the centre of the eoagulum ; if it had been extravasation, one would have expected extravasation of injection, but we had none in any of these places; I have therefore suspected that parts have the power of making vessels and red blood independent of circulation. This appears to be evidently the case with the chick in the egga. Adhesions in consequence of inflammation become very soon strong, and are very soon elongated; probably as soon as they become organized they adapt themselves to their situation or the necessity. Thus the dog which had his belly opened to wound some lacteals, when killed on the ninth day, had his intestines connected by adhesion in several places, arid those very firm and long. * [See p. 07, and note, and also the note to the explanation of Plate XVI.]THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 351 I have observed, when I was treating of the blood, that it was capa- ble of becoming vascular, when deposited either by accident, or for par- ticular purposes ; and I had reason to believe that a coagulum or coagu- lating lymph had a power of becoming vascular in itself when it could be supplied with blood, and mentioned the coagulum in a large artery as an instance. Likewise, when I was treating of union by the first intention, I explained the intercourse established by the uniting medium becoming vascular, and those vessels uniting across by a process called inosculation. The same reasoning is applicable to the union by means of the adhesive inflammation; for it is the blood in all cases that is to become vascular11; but this takes place sooner or latter, according to the apparent necessity. In some it becomes vascular immediately, in others very late, and indeed in some hardly ever, according to the de- gree of utility to arise from that change. Where it becomes vascular soonest, there the vessels are found also in greatest numbers, the two effects depending on the same principle. Extravasation, whether of blood or only of lymph, becomes vascular almost immediately when thrown out into the cavity of the human ute- rus in the state of pregnancy. Here is an operation necessary to go on, which is more than the simple support of the extravasation itself; but when the extravasation is thrown out by accident, or for the purpose of producing adhesions, the immediate intent is answered without the vessels, and vascularity only becomes necessary afterwards ; therefore vascularity in such cases is the second consideration, not the immediate one. But in the case of impregnation it must be immediate, for the simple extravasation would not answer the intention. This shows that this extravasation is very different from that of the menses. The new vessels which are formed in the newly extravasated and uniting substance become of use, both during the state of adhesion and suppuration. In the first they serve to give powers of action to this new substance, which assists in preventing suppuration. In the second, where this cannot be done, they assist in forming a vascular basis for the granulations. When we cut into inflamed parts after death we find them firm and solid, resembling the section of a lemon, or some cedematous tumour, where we know extravasation has taken place. This appearance arises from the cells in the cellular membrane, and other interstices of parts, being loaded with extravasated coagulating lymph ; from this circum- stance they are cemented together, and become impervious to air, not similar in these respects to common cellular membrane or natural parts.THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION'. 352 In many places where this extravasation has been in considerable quan- tities, it is formed in time into cellular membrane. I have observed that this mode of separation of the coagulating lymph is not peculiar to in- flammation ; it is separated in many diseases. It is thrown out to form tumours, etc. where inflammation does not seem to be a leading cause® ; and we often find the adhesive stages, as it were, degenerate into, or terminate in the formation of a cyst, to contain the body that was the cause of the inflammation. Thus, a sac is formed for bullets, pieces of glass, etc. It is unnecessary to instance every possible situation where adhesions could be produced; they can take place wherever there are two internal surfaces in contact, or that can be brought into contact. I cannot give a better instance of its utility in the animal oeconomy than in the fol- lowing experiment: I wished to know in wounds which penetrated into the chest (many of which I have seen in the army), where suppuration had come on the whole cavity of the chest, as well as on the surface of the lungs, and where the lungs collapsed, how parts were reinstated, or in what form they healed; whether the lungs, etc. lost their suppu- rating disposition, and dilated, so as to fill the chest again. To ascer- tain this as far as one well could, I made the following experiment on a dog. October 1779 I made an opening between the ribs into the chest of a dog, and touched the edges of the wound all round with caustic, to prevent it from healing by the first intention, and then allowed the dog to do as he pleased. The air at first passed in and out of his chest by the wound. He ate, etc. for some days, but his appetite gradually be- gan to fall off. He breathed with difficulty, which increased ; he lay principally on that side which we find people do who have the lungs diseased on one side only or principally; and he died on the eleventh day after the opening. On opening the body I found the collapsed lungs passing directly across the chest, and attached to the inside of the wound all round, so that they excluded the canty of the chest from all external communication. This circumstance, of the lungs falling across the chest, was owing to his having lain principally on that side, which I conceived to have been only accidental. The cavity of the chest all round was filled with air. That part of the external surface of the lungs which did not adhere, that is to say, the part opposite the upper surface of the diaphragm, and that part of the pleura which covered the ribs, were entirely free from inflammation or suppuration; this cavity, from these adhesions, being rendered a perfect cavity, shows that air, simply. “ [See I. 3C7, note.]THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 353 i has no power to excite inflammation when the cavity is otherwise per- I feet, wliich the adhesions had effected; this shows also that adhesions of two surfaces round the exposed part exclude every part from the nc- II cessity of inflammation, as was explained when treating of inflammation. From the connection between the living powers of the solids and the fluids, we can hardly suppose that such an uncommon action could take j place in the vascular system without producing its effects upon the fluids; and therefore, from reasoning, we might suppose that the coagulating 1 lymph undergoes some changes in its passage through the inflamed \ vessels, which obliges it to coagulate more immediately, or much sooner jtthan it otherwise would*. For in those cases of inflamed arms, after bleeding, and in inflammations in consequence of other causes, we find ' that the cavities of the veins are in many places furred over, and in others [the sides] united by means of the coagulating lymph. Now if • this coagulating lymph is similar in its production to that which we have been describing, it must have been thrown out from the vasa va- ■ sorum, these vessels having separated it and poured it into the cavity of the veins, and it must there have coagulated immediately; in this >separation, therefore, from the blood, it must have undergone some change, arising from the actions of the vessels ; for if this lymph was no more than the coagulating lymph with its common properties, or the ^properties common to that which is circulating in the same vein which receives it, it would in such cases only continue to throw in more co- agulating lymph, in addition to what was circulating, and therefore, j probably, it would be carried along with the blood to the heart, as a part of the common mass. From this we should infer that this coagulating matter is not simply the coagulating lymph, such as it is when circulating, but somewhat dif- ferent, from having undergone a change in its passage through the in- flamed vessels, part;iking of the disposition of those solids which are inflamed through which it passed. This process cannot therefore be supposed to be merely extravasation; for I conceive that an oedema would be a consequence of simple extravasation. But this may be taken up in another point of view, and upon the same principle. The inflamed vessels may give a disposition to the blood, as it is moving slowly along, to coagulate on its surface; and this is probably the more just idea of the two, as we find that the vessels, both veins and arteries, can give riiis is contrary to the disposition of inflammatory blond when taken out of he vessels and allowed to go through its spontaneous changes j from which it would ap- pear that the general afTection of the blood (which I would call sympathy of the coagu- ating lymph with the universal irritation,) is different from its affection or disposition | *’hen employed for the purposes of union, VOL. III. 2 A354 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. this disposition, and to a very great extent". We find in the beginning of mortification the blood coagulating in the vessels, so as to fill them up entirely; and this, preceding the mortification, seems to be for the purpose of securing the vessel before it is to give way. We therefore cannot doubt of a coagulating principle being given to the blood from the vessels; and, as a further proof of this, we may observe that the extravasated coagulating lymph, which produces either adhesions or forms tumours (which is often the case), is always of the nature of the diseased solids that produced it. If the case is venereal, the new sub- stance is of the seme nature : if cancerous, it is cancerous; for I find that it has, when absorbed, the power of contaminating, similar to mat- ter or pus produced by the sores or ulcers of such diseases; the absorb- ent glands being often affected by the absorption of the coagulating matter of a scirrhous breast. Whatever change the coagulating lymph has undergone in this oper- ation of inflammation, it seems so far the same as to retain still the nature of the coagulating lymph, and to possess the living principle. This is most probably in a greater degree; and therefore the coagu- lating lymph is still better fitted to be formed into a part of the solids of the body, as will be taken notice of when we come to treat of the state of the blood in inflammation. But it is not absolutely necessary that the coagulating lymph should first undergo a change in the extra- vasated vessels before it can become a living solid, or unite living solids: for we find that common blood extravasated from a ruptured vessel is, perhaps, ecpially efficacious in this respect; therefore the red globules do not retard union, but they may promote it. §. 7- The state of the Blood and of the Pulse in Inflammation. From what has been said of the living power of the blood, I think we must allow that it will be commonly affected much in the same manner with the constitution, and that disease will have nearly the same effect upon it as it has on the body, because the same living principle runs through the whole. We find this to be nearly the case : for till a dis- ease has affected the constitution, the blood continues the same as be- 3 [We can have no difficulty in rejecting this opinion; especially as it is opposed to the author's own observations elsewhere (p. 254 et passim) as well as the whole analo- gies of the subject (p. 328 note). The reason for assigning a different cause for the obliteration of the cavities of blood-vessels, than that which is employed by Nature for the union of divided parts, derives no support from observation. The coagula which form in blood-vessels and aneurismal sacs is not found to form any vascular connexion with the containing parts.] 1 pKfeMtfi355 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. fore; but as the constitution becomes affected, the blood also becomes affected, and undergoes the same changes, which probably may be ascribed to contiguous sympathy between the vessels and the blood; and we shall find that the changes in the blood are often as much ex- pressive of disease as any other part of the body. It is expressive of ■ strong action as well as of weak action ; but as it does not give sensation it cannot convey to the mind all the varieties of disease that may take j] place in it; yet I could conceive, if the blood was to be primarily affected, : that an impression would be made upon the mind, from its affecting the 'vessels in which it moved. However, it is not always the case that the s state of the blood and the other symptoms are expressive exactly of the : same thing; the blood often expressing less, and often more. When the action of the solids is of the inflammatory kind, or, which perhaps is the same thing, when there is too great an action of the solids, the blood more readily admits of a separation of its visible parts, and the co- agulating lympli coagulates more slowly, but becomes firmer when co- agulated. This last circumstance, however, might be supposed not to be so clear, for its firmness may be owing to its want of the red par- ticles, which certainly give the blood a brittleness in proportion to their quantity; but although this may have some effect, yet it is very little, for we find blood of loose texture in some inflammations when deprived of its red part. When blood has this disposition it is called sizy blood. These changes in the nature of the blood depend so much upon the ! above-mentioned causes of inflammation, that it is impossible to say whether they do not constitute the first universal effect produced from • the local inflammation, and whether the constitutional is an effect of this change in the blood. I knew a man who was stabbed in the loins, ■ and, according to the consequent symptoms, was most probably wounded or hurt in some viscus within the abdomen. At first he had no symptoms, but simple pain in the part; I therefore only bled him, by way of pre- caution, and the blood was perfectly natural; in less than a quarter of an hour after, constitutional symptoms came on, such as rigor, sickness. See., and on opening the same orifice, and taking away more blood, this -second quantity had a very thick and strong buff upon it, having all the appearance of inflammatory blood. While this constitutional disposi- tion lasted, which was some time, his blood continued the same, which was proved by the subsequent bleedings. The subsiding, however, iaf the red globules in the blood when in an inflamed state, although pretty frequent, is not always an attendant, or, in other words (and perhaps upon some other principle), the blood is not always attended with this appearance, when the visible symptoms are the same. A young woman was attacked with a violent cough, oppression in breathing, quick, 2 a “2356 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. full, and hard pulse. She was bled, which gave her ease; the blood was sizy; the symptoms again returned, and she was bled a second time, which also relieved her, and the blood was more sizy than before; so tar all the symptoms agreed. The symptoms again recurred, and were more violent than before : she was bled a third time, and a third time relieved ; but this blood was not in the least sizy, although it came from the vein very freely. Here then the blood, under the same disease, lost this disposition, although the symptoms remained the same. As inflamed blood leaves a portion of the coagulating lymph free from the red globules at the top, and as that can be accounted for upon the principle of the coagulating lymph, in such cases, not coagulating so fast as when the blood has not this appearance, and as the coagulation hinders any comparative experiment respecting the weight of the red globules of each, I tried to see if they sunk in serum faster in the one kind of blood than in the other. I took the serum of inflammatory blood, with some of the red part, and also some serum of blood free from in- flammation, with nearly the same quantity of the red part. They were put into phials of the same size; I shook them at the same time, then allowed them to stand quiet, and observed that the red globules sub- sided much faster in the inflammatory' blood than in the other. To as- certain whether this arose from the red globules .being heavier or the serum lighter, I poured off the serum from each, as free from red blood as possible ; then put the red part of the one into the serum of the other, and shook them to mix them well; and, upon letting them stand quiet, the red globules appeared to fall equally hist. From these experiments it appears that the red part of inflammatory' blood was heavier than that which was not so, and the serum was lighter, and the difference pretty , nearly equal; for if we could suppose that the red globules were one tenth heavier, and the serum one tenth lighter, then the difference in the subsiding of the red globules of inflammatory blood in its own se- ; rum, to that which is not inflammatory, would be as one to five; and if they were to be changed, then they would be equala. To see whether the blood from an inflamed part was different from that drawn from a part not inflamed, the following experiment was made :—A large leech was applied to an inflamed surface, and when it had sucked itself full, another leech was suffered to fill itself from the breast where no inflammation existed. They were both cut in two, and * [This accords with the fact before mentioned of the proportion of fibrin in inflamed blood being increased at the expense of the albuminous parts of the serum. The results of ten experiments on inflamed blood gave the following average, viz. 4-2 fibrin, and 30-13 solid contents of the serum; the standard of health being respectively 2-8 and 42-2.—-Thackrah, p. 212, and notes pp. 37, 39.]357 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. the blood received into two teacups, kept moderately warm in a dish of warm water. Both of them coagulated without the serum separating; but the inflamed blood was evidently of a lighter colour than the blood from the uninflamed part, but neither had the appearance of a buffy coat. Whether the disposition for inflammation, and the change produced in the blood, arise from a real increase of animal life, or whether it is only an increase of a disposition to act with the full powers which the machine is already in possession of, is not easily determined ; but it ap- pears to be certain that it is either the one or the other. There are some circumstances, however, that would incline us to suspect it to be the latter, because there is often inflammation when the powers of the machine are but weak, where it appears to be only an exertion of very weak powers, arising from some irritation produced; in such cases the blood will show signs of weakness although sizy. This appears to be equally the case in local inflammation, and inflammatory fevers, or in the symptomatic fever *. That it is an increase of the one or the other, and that the sensible effect produced arises from the action taking place, both in the solids and fluids, is proved by the method of treatment, which will lx: further illustrated in speaking of the mode of cure. On the other hand, where there is great debility in the solids, where the powers of preservation (the first animal powers) are weak, and there- fore the action weak, and where of course the body must have a ten- dency to dissolution, there we find the very reverse of the former appear- ance in the blood : instead of separating distinctly, and coagulating firmly, we have the whole mass of blood keeping mixed, and hardly any coagulation, only becoming of a thicker consistence. This effect, or appearance, often takes place in those who die instantaneously. I sus- pect that in such cases the blood dies first, and also instantaneously. In the commencement of most diseases, and even through the whole course of many, the situation of the blood appears to be an object with Nature. In some the blood forsakes the skin and extremities, and w'e * On the other hand it would appear reasonable to suppose that there was really an increase of animal life, for women who are breeding, and are in perfect health, always have sizy blood; and this is most remarkably the case with all animals in similar situ- ations. Now it would appear necessary for an animal, whenever put into a situation where greater powers are wanted, to have these powers increased. I n a breeding woman there is a process going on, though natural yet uncommon, and which requires a greater exertion, or a greater quantity of powers than usual, and therefore we have them pro- duced. This process of breeding, although in many of its symptoms it is similar to fever, is yet very different; for actual fever kept up for nine months would destroy the person, while, on the other hand, many are relieved by the process of breeding. If these observations are just, this blood should not be called inflammatory blood, but blood whose powers of life are increased.358 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. may suppose the smaller vessels in general; for when we can observe internal parts, so we find it, such as the mouth in general, eyes, &c.; a general paleness takes place, which is best seen in the lips, and even a shrinking of the external visible parts takes place, especially the eyes, so that the person looks ill, and often looks as if dying. The pulse is at this time small, which shows that the whole arterial system is in ac- tion. This appears to arise from debility, or the want of powers in the constitution to be acted on by such a disposition at the time, so that the whole powers or materials of life are called into the vital parts or cita- del, and the outworks are left to themselves. Such is the case with faint- ing, the cold fit of an ague, the cold fit or beginning of a fever, and the rigors or beginnings of exacerbations: it is also the case with the hectic. In the commencement of diseases it does not appear to arise from real debility of constitution, but from the novelty of the action, and of course a debility in that action, and from that only; but in the hectic, where a real debility has taken place, those appearances are owing to that cause; however, even in the hectic, this debility is assisted by the unnaturalness of the action. In the first, where there are real powers, it would appear as if Nature was struggling with the new disposition, and it either becomes destroyed entirely or in part, and the blood is then determined to the skin, and we may suppose into the smaller vessels in general; then the pulse becomes full; the whole action now appears to be there [in the skin], and it becomes hot; when that action in the skin ceases a perspiration takes place, and nature seems in many cases to be at rest: in some disorders this cessation is perfect for r time, as in agues; sometimes wholly, as in slight colds; but often imperfectly, as in con- tinued fevers, where the cessation appears only to arise from weariness, which prevents the continuance of the action, not from an alteration of the disposition. In other diseases the blood is thrown very early upon the exterior parts. The face shall look bloated, the eyes full, the skin red, dry, and hard to the touch. These symptoms, I suspect, belong more to fevers of the putrid kind, and have less connexion with surgery than the former. The pulse is often as strong a sign of the shite of the constitution as any other action that takes place in it, though it is not so always; but as the pulse has but one circumstance attending it that we can really measure, all the others being referable to the sensation or feeling of the person who is to judge of it, the true state of the pulse is not easily ascertained. The knowledge of the soft, the hard, and the thrilling, are such as can only be acquired with accuracy by the habit of feeling pulses in these different states, and by many is not to be attained, for simple sensation in the minds of any two men are seldom alike. Thus we find it happens with respect to music, for what would be disagree-* THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 359 able and not in harmony to one car, which is nice and accustomed to tthe harmony of sounds, will not be so to another. The late Dr. Hunter v was a striking instance of this, for though he was extremely accurate in most things, he could never feel that nice distinction in the pulse that many others did, and was ready to suspect more nicety of discrimination than can really be found. Frequency of pulsation in a given time is measurable by instruments ; smartness or quickness in the stroke, with I a pause, is measurable by the touch ; but the nicer peculiarities in the .pulse are only sensations in the mind. I think I have been certain of the pulse having a disagreeable jar in it when others did not perceive it, when they were only sensible of its frequency and strength; and it is perhaps this jar that is the specific distinction between constitutional disease, or irritation and health ; frequency of pulsation may often arise Sfrom stimulus, but the stroke will then be soft; yet softness is not to be depended on as a mark of health; it is often a sign of dissolution ; but : then there must be other attending symptoms. In the consideration of the peculiarities of the pulse it is always ne- Scessary to observe, that there are two powers acting to produce them, : the heart and the arteries; that one part of the pulse belongs to the heart alone, another to the arteries alone, and the third is a compound of both ; but the actions of the heart and arteries do not always corre- spond ; the heart may be in a state of irritation, and act quickly in its -systole, while the arteries may be acting slowly; for the heart is to be considered as a local part, while the vessels must be considered as uni- versal, or even constitutional. The stroke (which is the pulse), with the number of them that are made in a given time, whence the pulse is com- monly called quick or slow, their regularity and irregularity as to time, and the quickness of the stroke itself, belong to the heart. The quick- ness of the heart’s action often takes place, although the pulsations are not frequent, which gives a kind of rest or halt to the artery or pulse, especially if the pulse be not frequent. The hardness, the vibratory thrill, the slowmess of the systole, writh the fulness and smallness of the pulse, belong to the arteries. As the pulse arises from the actions of the solids or machine, its state will be of course according to the nature of the machine at the time, and therefore is capable of being in one of these states,—natural or diseased. In most diseases of the constitution, whether originating from it, or ari- sing in consequence of diseases of parts, where the constitution becomes affected by sympathy, the pulse is altered from a natural to a diseased state, the degree of which will be regulated by those affections. This alteration is commonly so constant, and so regularly of the nature of the disease, that it is one of the first modes of intelligence we have re-THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 360 course to in our inquiries into its nature; but alone it is not always a certain guide, for where there arc peculiarities of constitution we find the pulse corresponding to those peculiarities, and perhaps in direct contradiction to the accustomed state of the local affection. The same parts, too, under disease, give very irregular or uncertain signs in the actions of the heart and vessels, such as diseases or injuries done to the brain. 1 he varieties which the pulse admits of are several. It is increased in its number of strokes, or it is diminished; it is regular or irregular, as to time, in its strokes; it is quick in its stroke or diastole, and slow in its systole; it is hard in its diastole, and it vibrates in its diastole. In most cases, probably, where the constitution is in a state of irritation, the pulse will be quick and frequent in its number of strokes in a given time, and the artery will become hard from a constant or spasmodic contraction of its muscular coats, so as to give the feel of hardness to the touch ; besides which, the diastole of the artery is not regularly uni- form and smooth, but proceeds by a vast number of stops or interrup- tions, which are so quick as to give the feel of a vibration, or what we would express by a thrill. The pulse, under such a disposition or mode of action, may be either full or small. These two very opjrosite effects do not seem to arise from a difference } in the quantity of blood, which might at first be supposed; I should rather suspect that they arise from a difference in the degrees of strength; ' which will be more or less, according to the nature of the parts inflamed, ■ and the degree of irritability of the patient at the time. These give, more or less, an anti-diastolic disposition to the arteries; and while the 1 arteries have the power of contraction, and are in a state of irritation, i this effect will always take place. It is certain, at least, that the arte- ries do not commonly, in such a state of constitution, dilate so freely and so fully as at other times ; and as this will vary very quickly (if the constitutional irritation varies quickly), it is more reasonable to suppose that it is an immediate effect of the arteries, than on increase and de- crease of the quantity of blood. If this be really the case, then we should naturally suppose that the motion of the blood in the arteries would be increased in proportion to their diminished size; except we should also suppose that the diastole, 1 or the systole or contraction of the heart, is also diminished in the same f proportion. The first of these, I think, may probably be the case, as we find that the blood forsakes the surface of the body in such a state j of the constitution, as will hereafter be observed, and therefore must be collected in the larger veins about the heart. If the heart was to dilate [a.- usual] and throw out its whole contents at each systole, then theTIIE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 3G1 velocity of the blood in the arteries, under such a state of contraction of arteries, would be immense, and it might then be pushed into the simdler vessels on the surface of the body, which it certainly is not. The quick, hard, and vibratory pulse is generally an attendant upon inflammations, and whether it he attended with fulness, or the contrary, depends a good deal upon the part that is inflamed, which either in- creases or decreases the irritability, which will be described in treating of the different parts inflamed. In such a state of the constitution as produces such a pulse, the blood, which appears to be only a passive body, acted upon by the heart, so as to produce the diastole of the artery, and reacted on by the vessels, making the complete pulse, this blood, I say, is generally found in a different state from that where there are not these symptoms in the pulse ; they, as it were, constantly attend each other, or are the recipro- cal causes and effects of one another, asjwas taken notice of when I was speaking of the state of the blood in inflammation. From the account I then gave of the state of the blood in inflamma- tion, and have now given of the pulse, under the same action, it should naturally he expected that they should explain each other, which, for the most part, they certainly do; yet these appearances of the blood, and the kind of pulse, are every now and then appearing to he in op- position to each other in their common attending circumstances ; but this cannot be known till the person is bled. When the pulse is quick and hard, with a kind of vibration in the action, we generally have sizy blood. This may arise from fever, or such inflammation, etc. as affects the constitution or vital parts, these being so diseased as to keep up a constitutional irritation, which will always be an attending symptom ; but when we have neither a quick nor hard pulse, but both, perhaps, below par and rather small, with no visible fever nor inflammation, but probably some strong undetermined symptoms, such as pain, which is moveable, being sometimes in one place, sometimes in another, but at the same time seeming to impede no natural function, yet upon bleed- ing the blood shall be sizy, and the size shall have strong powers of contraction, so as to cup. A gentleman was ill with a pain, chiefly in his right side, but upon the part being rubbed, or upon applications being made to it, the pain seemed to move to some other part, from which circumstance it was supposed to have connexion with the bowels : at other times he was to- lerably well. His pulse was slow, small, and soft, and not at all, to the feel, like a pulse w’hich required bleeding. He desired to be bled, and when bled the blood was extremely sizy, the size being strong, and con- tracting so much as to draw in the edges, forming the upper surface into362 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. a hollow or cup. His pulse became fuller, quicker, and harder; he was bled a second time; the blood vvas the same, and the above symptoms increased so much that 1 observed, immediately after the second bleed- ing, Ins pulse was quicker, harder, and fuller than it was just before the bleeding. That it might be quicker and fuller I could conceive, because I have often seen such effect from bleeding where there had been an oppressed and languid pulse; but I cannot say that I ever saw a case where the pulse became harder, and acquired the vibration, except when debility or languor was produced, and where the blood was weak m its powers of coagulation, being flat on the coagulated surface8. Another want of correspondence, or irregularity, takes place when a constitution sympathizes with a local inflammation. There are cases where the pulse becomes slow, and often irregular; such are mostly to be found in old people, when the constitution is affected either origi- nally or sympathetically, and in such I suspect that a disposition for dissolution, and perhaps mortification, is much to be feared. A man, aged sixty-eight years, had an occasional inflammation in one of his legs, which often ulcerated, and which seemed to arise more from a de- fect in the constitution than to be simply local. In those indispositions his pulse seldom exceeded forty in the minute; and as he began to get better his pulse became more and more frequent. The varieties of the pulse, arising from the seat of the inflammation and the nature of the part inflamed, will be explained when I treat on inflammations in different situations and parts. §. 8. The effects of Inflammation on the Constitution, accord- tug to the structure of parts, situation of similar structures, and whether vital or not vital. These circumstances make a very material difference in the effects on the constitution arising from local inflammation; for we shall find that the effects on the constitution are not simply as the quantity of inflam- mation, but according to the quantity and parts combined, (supposing constitutions to be equal,) which I shall now consider separately. In common parts, as muscle, cellular membrane, skin, &c., the sym- ptoms w ill be acute, the pulse strong and full, and the more so if it be ft It near to the heart; but perhaps not so quick as when the part is far a [See Vol. I. p. 537; and I)r. Marshall Hall, On the Effects of Loss of Blood, in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xvii.]THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 363 •from it, since there will be less irritability. The stomach will sympa- t thize less, and the blood will be pushed further into the smaller vessels. If the inflammation is in tendinous, ligamentous, or bony parts, the ' symptoms will lie less acute, the stomach will sympathize more, the pulse will not be so full, but perhaps quicker, because there will be more irritability, and the blood will not be so much pushed into the smaller vessels, and therefore forsake the skin more. It seems to be a material circumstance whether the inflammation is i in the lower or upper extremity, that is, far from or near to the heart; for the symptoms are the more violent, the constitution is more affected, and the power of resolution seems to be less when the part inflamed is far from the source of the circulation than when near it, even when parts are similar both in texture and use. Whatever course the inflamma- tion is to run, or in whatever way it is to terminate, it is done with more ■ ease when near to the heart than when far off. All the parts that may in one sense be called vital do not produce the same effects upon the constitution; and the difference seems to arise from the difference in their connexions wdth the stomach. It is to be observed that vital parts may be divided into two, one of which is in itself immediately connected with life, as the stomach ; the other, where I life only depends upon it in its action or use. The heart, lungs, and brain are only to be considered in this last light; and therefore they have a considerable sympathizing affection with the stomach : the sym- ptoms are rather depressing, the pulse is quick and small, and the blood is not pushed into the smaller vessels. If the heart or lungs are inflamed, either immediately, or affected se- condarily as by sympathy, the disease has more violent effects upon the constitution than the same quantity of inflammation would have if it was not in a vital part, or was in one with which the vital parts did not sympathize; for if it is such as the vital parts sympathize with readily, then the sympathetic action of the vital parts will affect the constitu- tion, as in an inflammation of the testicle. In such cases the pulse is much quicker and smaller than when in a common part, as a muscle, cellular membrane, or skin ; but not so much so as in the stomach, and the blood is more sizy. When the inflamma- tion is in the heart only, its actions are extremely agitated and irregu- lar. If in the lungs, singly, the heart in such cases would appear to sympathize, and not allow of a full or free diastole. The stomach does not in common sympathize in such cases, which is the reason perhaps of the inflammation not depressing ; but it is to be observed that I make a material difference between the inflammation of the lungs, commonly called a pleurisy, and those diseases that begin slowly and spin out toTilt ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 364 great lengths, and which are truly scrofulous, producing the hectic, for in them we have the hectic pulse and not the inflammatory. If the stomach is inflamed, the patient feels an oppression and dejec- tion through all the stages of the inflammation; simple animal life seems to be hurt and lessened, just as sensation is lessened when the brain is injured; the pulse is generally low and quick, the pain is obtuse, strong, and oppressing, such as a patient can hardly bear”. If the intestines are much affected, the same symptoms take place, especially il the inflammation be in the upper part of the canal; but if it is the colon only which is affected the patient is more roused, and the pulse is fuller than when the stomach only is inflamed. If it be the uterus, the pulse is extremely quick and low. If it be a testicle that is inflamed, the pain is depressing, the pulse is quick but not strong. \V hen the inflammation is either in the intestines, testicle, or uterus, the stomach generally sympathizes with them, which will produce or increase the symptoms peculiar to the stomach. In inflammation of the brain, I believe, the pulse varies more than in inflammations of any other part; and perhaps we are led to judge of inflammation there more from other symptoms than the pulse. I believe the pulse is sometimes quick, slow, depressed, full, &c., and which may accord with the other sym- ptoms, such as delirium, stupor, &c. It is to be observed, when the attack upon these organs (which are Principally connected with life) proves fatal, that the effects of the in- flammation upon the constitution run through all the stages with more rapidity than when it happens in other parts ; so that at its very begin- ning it has the same effect upon the constitution which is only produced by the second stage of fatal inflammation in other parts. Debility begins a cry early, because the inflammation itself is interfering immediately with the actions of life ; and also in such parts universal sympathy takes place more readily, because the connexion of these parts by sympathy is more immediate; and if the sympathy is similar to the action, then the whole is in some degree in the same action. If the inflammation comes on in a part not very essential to life, and with such 'violence as to affect the actions of life or to produce universal sympathy, the pulse is fuller and stronger than common; the blood is pushed further into the extreme arteries than when the inflammation is in a vital part; the patient, after many occasional rigors, is at first rather roused, because the actions of the part arc roused ; and the effects a [It may be asked, if inflammation consists of an increase of animal life, or of a dls- ] p isition to act with all the powers of which the machine is possessed, how comes it to pass that inflammation of the stomach produces such depressing effects?]THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 365 in the constitution are such as do not impede any of the operations of the vital parts. It is allowed to proceed to greater lengths, or greater violence in itself, before the constitution becomes equally hurt by it; and the constitutional symptoms produced at last may be said to arise simply from the violence of the inflammation. But tills will take place more or less according to circumstances: it will be according to the nature of the parts, whether active as muscles, or inactive as tendons; also according to the situation of the same kind of parts, as well as ac- cording to the nature of the constitution. If the constitution is strong and not irritable, the pulse will be as above; but if the constitution is i extremely irritable and weak, as in many women who lead sedentary lives, the pulse may be quick, hard, and small at the commencement of the inflammation, similar to what happens in the inflammation of vital parts. The blood may be sizy, but will be loose and flat on the surface. §. 9. General Rcjlections on the Resolution of Inflammation. I now come to the most difficult part of the subject, for it is much more easy to describe actions than to assign motives" ; and without being able to assign motives, it is impossible to know when or how we may or should check actions, or remove them. I have endeavoured to show that an animal body is susceptible of impression producing action ; that the action, in quantity, is in the compound ratio of the impression, the susceptibility of the part, and the powers of action of the part or whole; and in quality that it is according to the nature of the impressing power and the parts affected. I have also endeavoured to show that impres- sions are capable of producing or increasing natural actions, and are then called stimuli; but that they are likewise capable of producing too much action, as well as depraved, unnatural, or what are commonly, called diseased actions. The first of these I have mentioned by the ge- neral term, irritations; the depraved, &c. come in more properly in treat- ing of peculiar or specific actions. Since then an animal body can be made to increase its natural action, or to act improperly by impression, so we can see no reason, w’hen it is acting too violently, why it should not be restrained by impression ; or when acting improperly, in consequence of these impressions, why it should not be made to act properly again by the same mode, namely, by impressions. a [By “ motives” the author must here he understood to mean all the causes of in- flammation, whether original or modifying.]THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 3G6 These modes of action we are first to understand, and then the power of correcting or counteracting those impressions, in order to diminish or prevent the action, so as to produce one that is healthy or natural. Besides, an injury which produces a new mode of action, and a disease which is a new mode of action, often happen when the machine is in perfect health, and in such a state as is perfectly in harmony with that health; but which state is not suitable to disease. Therefore it is to be presumed the more perfect health the body enjoys the less it bears a change in its actions. Thus we know that strong health does not bear considerable injuries, such as accidents, operations, &c. A man in strong health, for instance, will not bear a compound fracture in the leg, or an amputation of the same, so well as a man accustomed to such diseases and reduced by them. We find, commonly, that our artificial mode of reduction is by far too quick, and is almost as much a violence on the constitution as the injury; when therefore considerable injuries or dis- eases commence, the constitution is to be brought to that state which accords best with that accident or disease [see p. 281.]. The know- ledge of that state of the body at that time, as well as of the operations of the whole animal, or of its parts, when arising from a disturbed or deranged state, or a diseased disposition, are to be considered as the first steps towards a rational cure. But this alone is insufficient: the means of bringing the body to that state are also necessary, which will include the knowledge of certain causes and effects, acquired by expe- rience, including the application of many substances, called medicines, which have the power of counteracting the action of disease ; or of sub- stances perfectly inefficient in themselves, but capable under certain circumstances of producing considerable effects, sucli as water when hot and cold, or a substance when it varies its form, as from fluidity to va- pour. Of these virtues we know nothing definitely: all we know is, that some are capable of altering the mode of action, others of stimu- lating, many of counter-stimulating, some even of irritating, and others of quieting, so as to produce either a healthy disposition and action in a diseased part, or to change the disease to that action which accords with the medicine, or to quiet where there is too much action; and our reasoning goes no further than to make a proper application of those substunces with these virtues. 1 he difficulty is to ascertain the connexion of substance and virtue, and to apply this in restraining or altering any diseased action; and as that cannot be demonstrated u priori, it reduces the practice of medi- cine to experiment, and this not built upon well-determined data, but upon experience, resulting from probable data. This is not equally the case through the whole practice of medicine,367 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. for in many diseases we are much more certain of a cure than in others; but still, even in them, the certainty does not arise from reasoning upon any more fixed data than in others where the certainty of a cure is less, but it arises from a greater experience alone : it is still no more than inferring, that in what is now to be tried, there is a probable effect or good to arise in the experiment, from what has been found serviceable in similar cases. Diseases, however, of the same specific nature, not only vary in their visible symptoms or actions, but in many of those that are invisible, arising probably from peculiarities of constitution and causes, which will make the effects of applications vary probably almost in the same proportion; and as those varieties cannot be known, so as either to adapt the specific medicine to them, or to suit the disease to the medicine, it will then be only given upon a general principle, which of course may not correspond to the peculiarities. Even in well marked specific diseases, where there is a specific remedy, we find that there are often peculiarities which counteract the simple specific medicine. This we even see in poisons, which produce the simplest instances of specific disease, because the effects always depend on the same causes'*. The peculiarities therefore in the disease must arise from a peculiarity in the constitution, and not from the cause of the disease. The inflammation I have been treating of is the most simple of any, because it is the simple action of the parts unmixed with any specific quality, arising from causes of no specific kind, and attacking constitu- tions and parts not necessarily having any specific tendency. The cure therefore, or method of terminating the inflammation, which is called resolution, (in cases that will admit of it,) must also be very simple, if we knew it; and accordingly, when the cure of such is known, it lays the foundation of the general plan for the treatment of all inflamma- tions of the same kind. But it very rarely happens that a constitution is perfectly free from a tendency to some disease* ; we seldom there- fore see simple salutary actions of parts tending to relieve themselves from a violence committed: some constitutions being so irritable that the inflammation has no disposition to terminate, and others so indo- lent that the inflammation passes into another species, as into scrofula; all of which will require very different treatment. The same varieties take place in specific inflammations, as also in inflammations arising from poisons ; for many will have the true inflam- matory disposition joined with the specific. In such therefore the same * Vide the varieties of the inflammation, in the Introduction. a [The passage in the original text runs thus: “ This we even see in poisons, the most simple specific of all, because its effect arises in all cases from one cause."]tiie adhesive inflammation. 3G8 plan is to he pursued, with the addition only of the specific treatment; hut this must not he omitted, as the inflammation depends upon the specific disease. It is this critical knowledge which becomes the basis of practice, and it is this which requires the greatest sagacity; and I must own it requires more knowledge than comes to the share of most practitioners. As every inflammation has a cause, that cause should he removed before resolution can take place; for the animal {economy having a disposition within itself to discontinue diseased action, that of course subsides upon the removal of the cause, and this disposition is so strong in some as to appear to act alone. That removing the cause is a mode of resolution is proved in the venereal bubo; for by taking off the venereal action with mercury, the inflammation subsides, if another mode of action does not arise*. Inflammation, where it must suppurate, is most probably a restora- tive act, and cannot be resolved in those cases where restoration becomes necessary : as, for instance, in a wound that is kept exposed, the inflam- matory act of restoration becomes or is rendered necessary, and it takes place, but bring those parts together, or let the blood coagulate and dry upon it, and it becomes unnecessary. I have already observed, when ti eating of the causes of inflammation, which might be called the spon- taneous, that they probably arose from a state of parts in which they could not exist, similar to exposed surfaces, and therefore this act of restoration became necessary. If this be true, then probably by alter- ing that state of parts, as we can [in the latter instances] by bringing the divided parts together, the inflammation would either not rise or immediately cease; but as we are not in all cases acquainted with the mode of restoring those natural actions, we are obliged to be restricted to those methods that render them easier under this state, and which are often capable of turning the balance in favour of resolution. As inflamed parts are not always visible, it becomes necessary that we should have some rule to inform us whether the part is inflamed or not; to ascertain which we must have recourse to all the symptoms formerly mentioned, except the visible ones. We ought also to have a guide re- specting the kind of inflammation, more especially as it is not sufficient, in many cases, to be guided entirely by its appearances, even where it is in sight. It is often therefore very necessary to inquire into the cause of the inflammation, the nature of the constitution, the effects that for- mer inflammation has produced, and even into the temper and mind of the patient. The cure of inflammation is resolution, and the attempt towards it is principally to be made when the inflammation is in the adhesive state; for wc find that often it goes no further, but subsides, and this is reso- * Vide Treatise on Venereal Disease, Vo!. II.369 TIIE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. lution. Probably the sooner [the attempt is made] after its commence- ment the better it is. The object of the attempt is to prevent suppu- ration taking place, although suppuration may be considered as a reso- lution ; but it is the mode of resolution we commonly wish to avoid. Resolution is in general only to be attempted, with any probability of success, under the following circumstances, viz. first, when the inflam- mation is in consequence of the constitution, or a disease of the part; secondly, in cases of accident, where there is either no exposure, or where it has been removed in time, as, for example, by bringing the parts in contact; thirdly, where the life of the part has not been de- stroyed. In all such cases we find that resolution can take place; but in those cases arising from accident and a continuance of exposure joined, or where death of the parts is produced by the accident, it be- comes impossible to hinder the suppuration from taking place. I have already observed, that in many bruises, as well as simple frac- tures, where the cavities are not exposed, and where they are to heal by the first and second intention, the inflammation, in most of these cases, is capable of being resolved, although in some such cases the in- flammation runs so high as to threaten suppuration. I have also already shown that, in parts which have been divided and exposed, the inflam- mation is, in a great measure, prevented by bringing them together; or, if it has taken place previous to the union, that the same operation of union is sufficient to produce resolution ; and I have likewise shown, that where parts were not brought together, Nature attempted to pre- vent inflammation by covering the wound with blood and forming an eschar, which in many cases will cither prevent or remove inflamma- tion : all of which shows a power of resolution even in cases where the parts have been exposed. As it is commonly supposed that there are a great many local diseases that should not be resolved, the first thing necessary to be considered is when the resolution should or should not be attempted. On the con- trary, there are cases where inflammation is to be excited; but these arise commonly from disease, which is not to our present purpose. Yet it sometimes happens in accidents, where inflammation is necessary, that it is not sufficient for the reinstatement of the injured parts, as in some simple fractures, where the first bond of union, the extravasated blood, had not fulfilled its purpose, and had been absorbed, and where the inflammation was too slight to supply its place ; so that the union of parts being prevented, another mode became necessary, not at all a consequence of inflammation, viz. by granulations without suppuration*; VOL. m. * [Sec Vol. I. p. 427.] 2 BTHE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 370 all of which retard still more the restoration of the parts. As this de- fect can only be known in bone, and in the soft union of the bone, which is similar to the union in the soft parts, it is reasonable to sup- pose it may also take place in the soft parts, more especially those which are tendinous or ligamentous, where we find recovery very slow, for the soft union in bones differs in nothing from that of the soft parts; it may therefore be a much more common defect than is generally imagined. In such cases, if it could be known, it would be proper to encourage or even excite inflammation. If we cannot probably in any case determine where it should be excited, nor even where it should be checked, yet we can say in many cases where it is unnecessary to check it. Before we attempt to check inflammation, we should have reason to suppose it is going further than is necessary for the natural cure, and that it is therefore laying the foundation of work for the surgeon. It may be very difficult to say, in many cases, when it should be checked. The most simple reason will be to lessen pain, arising in a part not merely when moved or touched, but from the act of inflammation. Se- condly, where it may be uniting parts, the union of which we wish to avoid ; but this is an uncertain guide, even if we knew adhesions were taking place, for adhesions often prevent suppuration. Thirdly, to pre- vent the inflammation from suppurating ; and in this last, although the most obvious, yet there is less certainty how far we may advise the at- tempt. It is also the most difficult to efl’cct; for in many cases of spon- taneous ‘Inflammation, if it arises from a state under which the parts cannot exist nor their functions go on, similar to an exposed breach in flic solids, then resolution should not be attempted. It may be palli- ated when going beyond what is necessary for suppuration; but when this practice is carried further, it rather retards that salutary process. From the foregoing statement of particulars it must appear that in many cases it is unnecessary to check inflammation, in others it would he wrong, and in many very necessary; and probably the best guide is its going further than appears, from the [nature of the] cause, to be salu- tary. Vet in practice we find applications, and other modes of resolu- tion, immediately had recourse to, which must be considered as oppro- brious to surgery. Inflammations, in consequence of accidents, ought in general to be resolved, if possible. It is perhaps impossible to produce a single in- stance where a contrary practice would be preferable, except as above related, where its consequence would be to answer some great purpose; and it is also conceivable that this local disease, produced by accident, might relieve the constitution from some prior disorders, similar to what is understood to be the effects of an issue. Mr. Foote was relieved ofTHE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. O* 1 O/ 1 head-ache, of long standing, by the loss of a leg, which may he con- sidered as a proof of this ; but he afterwards died of a complaint in his head, very similar to an apoplexy. It might be supposed, on the other hand, that the temporary cure was the cause of the apoplexy. Inflammation, in consequence only of a disease in a part, appears to he under the same circumstances with respect to resolution; hut an in- flammation arising from a preceding indisposition in the constitution (commonly called critical) has always been classed among those which should not be cured locally, and this has got the term of repulsion : it has been insisted on that the inflammation should rather be encouraged, and suppuration produced, if possible. If the inflammation is really a concentration of the constitutional complaint, and that by not allowing it to rest here, the same disposition is really diffused over the whole animal again, and at liberty to fix on some other part, it certainly would be better to encourage its stay; but in such cases it is always to be un- derstood that the inflammation is in such parts as will readily admit of a cure when suppuration takes place; for if the disease be otherwise si- tuated, then the cure of the constitution by suppuration will be a mode of cure which will reflect back another disease upon it, under which it will sink: resolution of inflammation, therefore, in the first of these si- tuations, should if possible be brought about. For instance, many deep- seated inflammations, if allowed to suppurate, would of themselves most certainly kill. This might be illustrated by the gout, when either in the head or stomach, for when in such parts it had better be repelled, and left to find another part less connected with life, which, if in the feet, would be called repelling of it; but still it-does not appear to me necessary that it should suppurate, for suppuration is only a consequence of the inflammation, and not an immediate consequence of the original or constitutional disease, but a secondary one* : as suppuration, there- fore, is only a thing superadded, and as we shall find that inflammation generally subsides when suppuration comes on, I see no reason why in- flammation, in the present case, should not as well subside by resolution as by suppuration: however, it may be supposed that although suppu- ration is not the natural or immediate effect of the disease, yet as it is a continued local action, and the thing sought for by the constitution, rim is contrary to the common received opinion, but it is according to my idea of suppuration; for I have all along considered inflammation as the disease, and suppura- t.on only as a consequence of that disease, and have supposed the disease to he gone ;rr°: h".'t&kC".Place; ^.according to the common opinion, suppuration ie iing to he wished for, because all diseases arose from humours ; but as we have . 0"CC men"onca humo“«» therefore made it no part of our system, wc mi.,, al>o drop it at present. ' 2 b 2TIIF. ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 372 and as inflammation must precede it, the parts must submit to those regular processes, for it must be supposed to be capable of diverting the disease to this part. §. 10. Of the Methods of Resolution by constitutional means. The first thing to he considered is the kind of inflammation, when visible, which will in some degree show the kind of constitution; the next is the nature of the part inflamed, and the stage of inflammation ; for upon these depend in some measure the method of relief. In cases of exposed internal surfaces the inflammation cannot be resolved, be- cause the cause still exists till inflammation has resolved itself; but it may be lessened, and this probably takes place by lessening everything which has a tendency to keep it up ; and in all likelihood little more can be done in spontaneous inflammations ; for as yet we know of no method which will entirely quiet or remove the inflammatory disposition or mode of action, as there is no inflammatory specific with which we are ac- quainted. When I described inflammation I observed there was either an in- crease of life, or an increased disposition to use with more violence the life which the machine or the part was in possession of; and also there was an increased size of vessels, and of course an increased circulation in the part inflamed, and in the constitution in general. If this theory of the mode of action of the vessels in inflammation is just, then our practice is reducible ta two principles, one consisting in removing the cause of that action, the other in counteracting the effect. As to the first, as we seldom know the cause, but only see the effect, except in some specific diseases, for which we have a specific remedy, we do not know with any degree of certainty how to act; but as to the second, that is, the effect, as it is more an object of our senses, we can apply with more certainty our reasoning upon it, for reasoning from analogy will assist us in our attempts. We find, from common observation, that many cir- cumstances in life, as also many applications to parts, will call forth the contraction of the vessels; we are, therefore, from the above theory, to apply such means : and whatever w ill do this, without irritation, will so far counteract the effect*. I have already observed, that wherever there has been a violence committed, or some violent action is going on, there is a greater influx • As this is a new theory of die action of the vessels in inflammation, and the only one that can possibly direct to a method of cure, it is to be hoped that attention will be paid to it, and, if just, that more certain methods of resolution will be discovered.THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 373 of blood to that part. Lessening, therefore, that influx, becomes one mode of relief, for as the vessels dilate, they should not be encouraged in that action. Although the increased influx is to be considered chiefly as an effect, yet it is to be considered as a secondary causea; and from our ignorance of the immediate cause, it is probably only through such secondary causes that we can produce any effect; and upon these prin- ciples most likely rests, in some measure, the method of resolution, for whatever will lessen the power and disposition will also lessen the effect, and possibly these will likewise lessen the force of the circulation. If the inflammation is attended with considerable action and power, as it were, increasing itself, then the modes of resolution are to be put in practice; the one by producing a contraction of the vessels, the other by soothing or lessening irritability, or the action of dilatationb. The first, or contraction of the vessels, is produced in two ways ; one by producing weakness, for weakness excites the action of contraction of the vessels; the other, by such applications as induce the vessels to contract. 1st. The means of producing absolute weakness are bleeding and purging; but the bleeding also produces irritability for a time, and is often attended by a temporary weakness of another kind, viz. sickness. I he inconvenience, however, arising from this practice is, that the sound parts must nearly, in the same proportion, suffer with the inflamed, for by bringing the inflamed part upon a par with health, the sound parts must be brought much lower, so as to be too low. 2nd. The soothing may be produced by sedatives, relaxants, anti-stimulants, etc., such as many sudorifics, anodynes, etc. I he first method will have the greatest, the most permanent, and the most lasting effect, because, if it has any effect at all, the diseased ac • lion cannot be soon renewed. 1 he second will act as an auxiliary, for so far as irritation is a cause this will also lessen it, and the two should go hand in hand ; for wherever we lessen power, we should at the same time lessen the disposition for action, or else we may increase the dis- position ; but neither bleeding, purging, nor sickness can possibly lessen the original inflammatory disposition [Vol. I. 301.], for none of them [This is consistent with Mr. Hunter’s language elsewhere, where he says that he "could conceive a part to inflame, or be in a state of inflammation, although no blood were to pass (p. 325); but it is difficult to imagine the popriety of calling that a cause which is the essential part of the thing intended. Inflammation could not exist, or cer- tainly could not be defined, without taking into account the augmented influx of blood.] [The reader will observe that an hypothesis is involved in this expression which does not appear to be supported by any substantial facts. That vessels presumed to be contractile should yet actively dilate under increased action, seems not only to imply •> contradiction in terms, but to be wholly unsupported by any other consideration.]THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 374 will resolve a venereal inflammation when mercury will; nor will they resolve the erysipelatous inflammation, although that inflammation has the very action for which we should bleed in the common inflammation, viz. dilatation of vessels. However, these means may, in some sense, he reckoned direct, for whatever will produce the action of contraction in the vessels is counteracting the action of dilatation. Lessening the power of action belohging to any disposition can only lessen or protract the effects, which, however, will be of singular service, as less mischief will be done, and it will often give the disposition time to wear itself out. Means employed on this principle should be such as give the feel of weakness to the constitution, which will affect the part, and will make the vessels contract; but this practice should not be carried so far as to produce the sense of too much weakness, for then the heart acts with great force, and the arteries dilate. Bleeding then, as a general principle, is to be put in practice, but this must be done with judgment, for I conceive the effects of bleeding to be very extensive. Besides, the loss of any quantity of blood being uni- versally felt, in proportion to the quantity lost, a universal ahirm is ex- cited, and a greater contraction of the vessels ensues, than simply in proportion to this quantity, in consequence, as it would appear, of a sympathetic affection with the part bleeding". Too much blood in an inflammation is a load upon the actions of the circulation. Too little produces debility and irritability, because there is a loss of powers, with an increased action to keep up, which is now’ not supported. It would seem that violent actions of a strong arterial sy- stem required less blood than even the natural actions, and even less still than a weak or irritable system ; from whence we must sec that bleeding can either relieve inflammatory action or increase it, and therefore is not to be used at random. As many patients that seem to require bleediug have been already bled, it may not be improper to inquire how they bear, or are affected by bleeding, for certainly all constitutions (independently of every other circumstance,) do not bear this evacuation equally, and it is probable that its effects on inflammation may be nearly in the same proportion; if so, it becomes a very useful caution; for although the loss of blood may, as a general principle, be set down as a wcakencr, and probably [This effect is with more probability to be ascribed to the approach of the state of syncope, which state, it may be observed, is often signally beneficial in the incipient stages of inflammation ; not merely by its tendency “to lessen and protract the effects,” till by cutting short and at once removing the diseased action. The dangers or ill effects i,l blood letting lie principally on the side of delay and too frequent repetition, and Less in having vigorous recourse to this remedy in the first instance.)THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 375 the greatest, as we can kill by such means, yet the loss of certain quan- tities in many constitutions is necessary for health : this is either when there is a disposition to make too much blood, or a constitution that cannot bear the usual quantity ; in such, when known, bleeding with freedom is certainly necessary. If the inflammation is known to be at- tended with real powers bleeding is absolutely necessary, in such quan- tity as to take off from the force of the circulation, which arises from too much blood ; or if that is not sufficient, then as much as will cause a contraction of the vessels ; but in cases of too great an action of weak parts, then the proper quantity to be taken is no more than may assist the dilatation of the vessels, which will lessen the violence of motion in the blood, or remove the sensation in the part inflamed, of having too much to doa: the quantity, therefore, must be regulated according to the symptoms and other circumstances ; for instance, according to the visible indications. We are to remark here, that every part of the body under inflamma- tion will not bear bleeding silike. I believe that the constitution bears bleeding best when the inflammation is in parts not vital, and those near the source of the circulation : whatever disturbs some of the vital parts, depresses, but not equally in all; and in them it becomes more neces- sary to be particular; for in accidents of the brain, bleeding freely, even so as to produce sickness and fainting, is necessary. It is probable that the sickness attending such accidents is designed to lessen the influx to the head, and occasion the vessels of the brain to contract. The indications for bleeding are, first, according to the violence of the inflammation, joined with the strength of the constitution, which will in general point out the kind of inflammation. Secondly, according to the disposition to form much blood; thirdly, according to the nature of the part, whether vital or not; fourthly, according to its situation, in point of distance from the heart; fifthly, according to the effect of the inflammation on the constitution1’. With regard to this evacuation, it is worthy of particular considera- tion, whether or not, in all cases where it can be put in practice, bleed- ing in or near the part will answer better than taking the blood from the general habit, for certainly less may be removed in this way, so as to have equal effect upon the part inflamed (and probably upon every other disease that is relieved by bleeding), and yet affect the constitution less ; [these modes of expression, which are evidently unphiiosophica), have been al- ready noticed. (See Consciousness iu the Index.) For the word “assist” in this paragraph, I should apprehend we ought lo read nlit re.] 11 [See Note, Vol. I. p. 102.]376 TU K ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. for although in many cases the general habit may be relieved by blced- *nf?* the part affected, where it can act, will in all cases require this evacuation most, and local bleeding will keep nearer these proportions ; whereas taking blood from the general system is just the reverse. That local bleeding has very considerable effects on the inflamed part, is proved by the gout; for applying leeches to the part inflamed commonly relieves that part, and often almost immediately*. We find that bleed- ing by leeches alone will remove a tumour in the breast, having all the appearances of a scirrhus, which cannot be considered as inflammatory ; its powers, therefore, extend beyond inflammation. We find relief by bleeding in the temporal artery or jugular vein, for complaints in the brain ; or cupping and bleeding with leeches on or near the part, as ap- plying leeches to the temples, in inflammations of the eye. I have observed that there is something similar to sympathetic affec- tion in bleeding. I conceive that all the sympathetic powers, the uni- versal, continued, and contiguous, may be brought into action from the local influence of bleeding. 1'hus, bleeding in the part inflamed, I can conceive, does more than simply empty the vessels mechanically, for that would be soon restored from the general circulation ; but it acts by con- tinued sympathy, viz. the vessels of the part being opened, they con- tract for their own defence, and this is carried further along the vessels of the part; so that bleeding from the part acts in two ways, viz. me- chanically, by relieving the vessels of some blood, so as to allow them to contract in proportion as the load is taken off; and also by exciting them to contraction, in order to prevent the effusion of blood. I sup- pose, likewise, that contiguous sympathy comes into action, for this would appear from practice and observation to be a principle in bleed- ing ; therefore, in inflammation of contiguous parts, it is proper to bleed from the skin opposite to them, as from the skin of the abdomen in complaints of the liver, stomach, and bowels; and likewise from the loins in inflammatory affections of the kidneys. In affections of the lungs bleeding opposite to them is of service ; but in such cases it is not clear where the inflammation is, for if in the pleura, then it does not act upon this principle, but by continued sympathy : bleeding on the scalp relieves head-aches ; and the relief given to the testicle by bleeding from the scrotum, in inflammation of that body, proves the principle. Where the first indication for bleeding takes place, viz. where there is violent inflammation, with strength of constitution, bleeding freely will be of singular service. The same mode of practice is also to be followed under the circumstance of strength, with respect to the second, third, fourth, and fifth ; but each will not require the same quantity to * It is not meant here to recommend bleeding in this disease.TIIE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 377 be taken under equal strength of constitution, as will be taken notice of when treating of them separately. As it seldom happens that bleeding once will be sufficient in a considerable inflammation, the first, or pre- ceding blood taken becomes a symptom of the disease. If the coagu- lating lymph is long in coagulating, so that the globules have time to subside, there will be what is called a thick buff; and if its surface is considerably cupped, then future bleedings may be used with less cau- tion ; because such appearance indicates strong powers of coagulation, which always shows strength in the solids; but if the blood is weak in its powers of coagulation, and lies flat in the dish, then we must be cau- tious in our future bleedings ; or if it was strong at first in its powers of coagulation, and after repeated bleedings becomes weak, then we must not pursue this further; but in some cases it is proper to pursue it to this point, for we shall sometimes find that the inflammatory symptoms shall not cease after repeated bleedings, if the strength continues; but tbc moment a degree of looseness is produced in the blood, that moment will the inflammatory action cease. The following case is a strong in- stance of this: A lady had a violent cough, tightness in respiration, loss of appetite, strong sizy blood, and the symptoms continued to the sixth bleeding, when the blood was not quite so sizy; but the most remarkable change was its remaining flat on the surface. Upon this bleeding all the sym- ptoms disappeared; and here, although the blood became weak in its power of coagulation, yet it did not produce irritability in the consti- tution, the vessels of the inflamed parts having still had power to con- tract. On the other hand, there may be indications for bleeding spa- ringly; first, when there is too much action, with weakened powers; secondly, when there is a disposition to form but little blood; thirdly, when the part affected is far from the source of the circulation. From the above three dispositions that require bleeding sparingly, or with caution, I may observe that it will most ju-obably be proper in all such cases to bleed from, or as near the part affected as possible, in order to have the greatest effect, with the loss of the least quantity of blood ; more so than when the constitution is strong; because the constitution in such cases should feel the loss of blood as little as possible. If from the part, leeches will answer best, because commonly little irritation follows the wound of a leech * : however, this can only be put in prac- * However this is not always the case, for it sometimes happens that an unkindly inflammation attends the wound, though not extensive. It sometimes also happens that the lymphatic glands swell in consequence of their bite; but these so rarely occur, and arc of such little consequence when they do, that they are not to be regarded. From hence it has been conceived that there is something poisonous in the bite of a leech,378 TIIE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. tice in inflammations not very remote from the surface. But in many eases the blood cannot be taken away from the part itself, but only from some neighbouring part, so as to affect the part inflamed : thus, we bleed in the temporal artery for inflammation of the eyes; we bleed in the jugular veins for inflammation of the brain; and also in the temporal artery to lessen the column of blood going to the brain, by the internal carotids. But in many situations it will probably be impossible to do this with any hopes of success, and therefore we may have recourse to the sympathetic all'cctions before described. 1 oo much action with small powers may often, if not always, be classed with the irritable constitution, and bleeding should then be per- formed with very great caution: one case out of many I shall relate as an instance of great action with debility. A gentleman had one of the most violent inflammations I ever saw in one of his eyes, attended with violent pain in his head, and the blood extremely sizy, all of which denotes great action of parts: yet the buff of the blood was so loose when coagulated that it could hardly bear its own weight, or make any resistance to the finger when pressed; and although he was bled pretty freely, yet he never found any relief from it. This blood becoming a symptom, both of the constitution and dis- ease, manifestly showed weak powers from its looseness, and too great action from its slowness of coagulation, which was the cause of the bull'. The following case is another strong instance of great action in a weak irritable habit. A lady had a violent inflammation at the root of the tongue, so as to form a considerable suppuration, with a pulse of 120, 125, and often 1:50 in a minute. Her blood was extremely sizy, yet she received but little benefit from the first bleeding, although the blood coagulated pretty firmly, which indicated strength. She was of an irritable constitution, so as to receive less benefit from bleeding than another; and when bled three times, the blood became extremely loose in its texture, which bark removed, as well as the other symptoms. Upon leaving off the bark the symptoms all recurred, and when she was bled again for the second at- tack, which was the fourth time, the blood, although inflammatory, had recovered a good deal of its proper firmness; but in the second bleed- ing for this second attack it was less so, and in the third it was still less. Suspecting that bleeding in the present case would not produce resolution, I paid particular attention to the pulse at the time of bleed- but I think there are no proofs of it: however, from another effect, I conceive there is a power or property applied to the wound, which hinders the irritation of contraction that naturally takes place in a wounded vessel, producing, probably, a paralysis for a time.379 'i'llE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. ing, and found that in this last bleeding the pulse increased in its fre- quency even in the time of bleeding; and within a few minutes after the bleeding was over, it had increased ten strokes in the minute*. These bleedings retarded suppuration, but by producing irritability they could not effect resolution. Where there is a disposition to form but little blood (when known), bleeding should be performed with great caution. When the inflammation is far from the source of the circulation the same precautions are necessary. In general it can be taken away from the part in such cases. But these are only so many facts, that require peculiar symptoms to ascertain them. The common indications of bleeding, besides inflammation, are too often very little to be relied upon, and I shall consider them no further than as it concerns inflammation, which will indeed throw light on other cases. The pulse is the great indication in inflammation, but not al- ways to be depended upon. In inflammations that are visible a knowledge of the kind of inflam- mation is in some degree ascertained, as has been observed; we there- fore go upon surer ground in our indications for bleeding. But all in- flammations are not visible; and it is therefore necessary to have some other criterion. However, if we could ascertain the pulse peculiar to such and such appearances in visible inflammation, and that was uni- versally the same in all such appearances, we might then suppose that we had got a true indicative criterion for our guide, and therefore apply it to invisible inflammations, so as to judge of the kind by the state of the pulse. But when we consider that the same kind of inflammation in every part of the body will not produce the same kind of pulse, but very different kinds, not according to the inflammation, but according to the nature of the parts inflamed, and those other parts also not visible, we lose at once the criterion of the pulse as a guide. When we con- sider also that there shall be every other sign or symptom of inflamma- tion in some viscus, and from the symptoms the viscus shall be well ascertained, yet the pulse shall be soft and of the common frequency; and upon bleeding, in consequence of these inflammatory symptoms, the blood shall correspond exactly with all of them, except the pulse, it shall be sizy, Arm, and cupped, as was the case in the lady, which has been before described, we shall be still further convinced that the pulse is a very inadequate criterion. If a pulse be hard, pretty full, and quick, * This, of the pulse increasing upon bleeding, is not always to be set down as a sure Mgn of irritation being an eifect; for in a sluggish pulse, arising from too much blood, the increase of stroke, and freedom given to the circulation is salutary; but when a pulse is already quick, an increase must arise from irritation.380 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. bleeding appears to be the immediate remedy, for hardness rather shows strong contractile action of the vessels not in a state of inflammation, which also implies strong action of the blood, and from such a pulse a sizy blood will generally be found. But even a quick hard pulse and sizy blood are not always to be depended upon as sure indications of bleeding being the proper method of the resolution of inflammations : more must be taken into the account. The kind of blood is of great consequence to be known ; for although it should prove sizy, yet if it lies squat in the bason, and is not firm in texture, and if the symptoms at the same time arc very violent, bleed- ing must be performed very sparingly, if at all; for I suspect that under such a state of blood, if the symptoms continue, bleeding is not the proper mode of treatment. The cases of this kind which have been re- lated are strong proofs of this. As the pulse, abstracted from all other considerations, is not an ab- solute criterion to go by, and as sizy blood and a strong coagulum are after-proofs, let us see if there are any collateral circumstances that can throw some light on this subject, so as to allow us to judge d priori whether it be right to bleed or not, where the pulse does not of itself indicate it. Let us remember that in treating of inflammation of dif- ferent parts I took notice of the pulse peculiar to each part, which I may now' be allowed to repeat. First, I observed that an inflammation in parts not vital, or such as the stomach did not sympathize with, if there were great powrers and the constitution not very irritable, the pulse Avas full, frequent, and hard. Secondly, that on the contrary, in inflamma- tions of the same parts, if the constitution Avas Aveak, irritable, ike., that then the pulse Avas small, frequent, and hard, although perhaps not so much so as Avhen in vital parts. Thirdly, that Avhen the inflammation Avas in a vital part, such sis the stomach or intestines, or such as the stomach readily sympathizes with, then the pulse Avas quick, small, and hard, simi- lar to the above. Now in the first stated positions avc have some guide, for in the first of these, A’iz. Avhere the pulse is strong, &c., there bleed- ing is most probably absolutely necessary, and the symptoms, with the state of blood joined, will determine better the future conduct; but in the second, where the pulse is small, very frequent, and hard, bleeding should be performed with great caution. Yet in inflammations of the second stated parts the constitution seems to be more irritable, giving more the signs of Aveakness, as if less in the poAver of the constitution to manage. Bleeding, restricted to tAvo or three ounces, can do no harm by way of trial, and, as in the first case, the symptoms and blood are to determine the future repetition; but in the third, or vital parts, viz. either the stomach or such as the stomach sympathizes Avith. we arc yet, I amTIIE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 381 afraid, left in the dark respecting the pulse. Perhaps, bleeding at first with caution, and judging from the blood and its effects upon the other symptoms, is the only criterion we can go by. The kind of constitution will make a material difference, whether ro- bust or delicate. The mode of life will also make a material difference, whether [the patient is] accustomed to considerable exercise, and can bear it with ease. Constitutions so habituated will bear bleeding freely ; but those with contrary habits will not. The sex will likewise make a difference, although the mode of life will increase that difference : therefore men will bear bleeding better than women. Even age makes a material differ- ence, the young being able to lose more blood than the old, for the ves- sels of the old are not able to adapt themselves so readily to the decreased quantity; it even should not be taken away so quickly, and probably the constitution may in some degree have lost the habit of malting blood, since it has lost the necessity. The urine will throw some light on the disease. If high-coloured, and not much in quantity, it may be presumed, with the other sym- ptoms, that bleeding will be of singular service ; hut if pale and a good deal of it, although the other indications are in favour of bleeding, yet it may be necessary to do it with caution. However, bleeding should in all cases be performed with great cau- tion, more particularly at first, and no more taken than appears to be really necessary. It should only be done to ease the constitution or the part, and rather lower it where the constitution can bear it; but if the constitution is already below or brought below a certain point, or gives the signs of it from the situation of the disease, then an irritable habit takes place, which is an increased disposition to act without the power to act with. This of itself becomes a cause of the continuance of the original disposition, and therefore will admit neither of resolution nor suppuration, but continue in a state of inflammation, which is a much worse disease than the former. Upon any other principle than those above mentioned I cannot see why bleeding should have such effects in inflammation as it sometimes has. If considered in a mechanical light, as simply lessening the quan- tity of blood, it cannot account for it; because the removal of any na- tural mechanical power can never remove a cause which neither took its rise from, nor is supported by it. How'evcr, in this light it may be of some service; because all the actions relative to the blood’s motion will be performed with more ease to the solids when the quantity is well proportioned. It is probably from this connexion betw'cen the solids and fluids, that382 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. llie constitution or a part is in a state of perfect quietude or health; in which [state] we find that the fluids are, and ought to be, in a large quantity ; but in a state of inflammation, or increased powers and actions, those proportions do not correspond, at least in the parts inflamed ; and by producing the equilibrium between the two, suitable to such a state, tlie body becomes, so far as this one circumstance can affect it, in a state of health, and this in many cases will cast the balance in favour of health. It is not, however, sufficient to produce this effect in all in- flammations. How far taking the blood from parts, peculiarly situated with respect to the parts inflamed, is more efficacious, I believe, is not yet determined, as bleeding in the left side for an inflammation in the right, upon the supposed principle of derivation, which might be classed with remote sympathy ; but so far as the loss of the blood acts mechanically, viz. so far as it simply empties the vessels, it certainly can have no more effect than if taken in any other way; nor can it affect the living principle, either universally or locally, more in this mode than in any other. But how far it can affect the sympathizing principle I do not know. Bleeding is often performed from no constitutional indication, but only as a preventive arising from experience, such as in consequence of considerable accidents, as blows on the head, fractured bones, &c.; but this is not to the present purpose. §.11. The Use of Medicines internally, and of Local Appli- cations in Inflammation. Everything given to the body, or applied to the part inflamed, that can abate inflammation, or its effects in the constitution, may be called medicine. Such, therefore, divide themselves into constitutional and local. The first will be internal, the second external; but whichsoever way they are applied, they that tend to lessen inflammation have their effects local: for mercury, although given internally for a venereal ulcer in the throat, yet acts locally on the disease ; but those that tend to re- move constitutional affections have their effects constitutional. The internal medicines generally ordered for the resolution of inflam- mation are such as tend to have similar effects to that which is produced by bleeding, namely, lowering the constitution or the action of the parts, and this has usually been performed principally by purges; and the me- dicines that were given to remove or lessen the effects of inflammation on the constitution, have been such as generally tend to lessen fever, or the effects that the inflammation has upon the constitution.383 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. Purges were generally given in cases of inflammation (probably at first from the idea of humours to be discharged), and such practice will answer best where bleeding succeeds, because it will lower the body to a more natural standard, and of course the inflamed part, as a part of that con- stitution ; but here the same cautions are necessary that were given upon bleeding, because nothing debilitates so much as purging when carried beyond a certain point. One purging stool shall even kill, where the constitution is very much reduced, as in many dropsies ; therefore, keep- ing the body simply open is all that should be done. However, although purging lowers considerably, yet its effect is not so permanent as that of bleeding. It rather lowers action, without diminishing strength; for if a person was to feel the loss of blood equal to a purge, that sensa- tion would be more lasting. Many constitutions rather acquire strength upon being gently purged, particularly such as have been living above par. But such strength as is acquired by putting the body in good order, I should suppose, is not inimical to inflammation. In irritable habits, where the inflammation becomes more diffused, greater caution is necessary with regard to purging as well as bleeding; lor I observed on the subject of bleeding, that in such constitutions no more blood should be taken than would relieve the constitution, as it were mechanically, but not such a quantity as to have a tendency to- wards lowering or weakening that constitution, for in such cases the action is greater than the strength; and whenever the disposition be- tween these two, is of this kind, we cannot expect anything salutary from this mode of treatment, and therefore should not increase it. In such cases, the very reverse of the former method should often be prac- tised : whatever has a tendency to raise the constitution above irrita- bility should be given, such as bark, &c. The object of this last prac- tice consists in bringing the strength of the constitution and part as near ul»on a par with the action as possible, by which means a kindly resolu- tion or suppuration may take place, according as the parts inflamed are capable of acting. Medicines which have the power of producing sickness lessen the ac- tion, and even the general powers of life, for a time, in consequence of every part of the body sympathizing with the stomach ; and their effects arc pretty quick. Sickness lowers the pulse, makes the smaller vessels contract, and rather disposes the skin for perspiration, but not of the active or warm kind; but I believe it should proceed no further than sickness, for the act of vomiting is rather a counteraction to that effect, and produces its ellccts from another cause, and of course of another kind, which I be-384 TIIE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. lieve rather rouse. It is probably an action arising from the feel of weak- ness, and intended to relieve the person from that weakness. It is simi- lar to the hot fit of an ague, a counteraction to the cold one. There are few so weak but they will bear vomiting, but they cannot bear sick- ness long. If we had medicines which, when given internally, could be taken into the constitution, and were endowed with a power of making the vessels contract, such I apprehend would be proper medicines. Bark has cer- tainly this property, and is of singular service I believe in every inflam- mation attended with weakness, and therefore, I conceive, should be oftener given than is commonly done ; but it is supposed to give strength, which would not accord with inflammations attended with too much strength and considerable irritation. Preparations of lead, given in very small doses, might be given with success in cases attended with great strength. Applications to the body to cure or resolve inflammations are, with regard to their mode of application, of two kinds : one is applied to the part inflamed, the other to some distant part. The first may be called local, or absolute respecting the part itself; the second relative. But even the first may be considered as having a relative effect in one of its modes of action, viz. that called repulsion, from which local applica- tions have by some been objected to, and it is principally local applica- tions that can repel, although not literally. The first, or absolute effects of medicine, may be divided into two kinds, viz. one the simple cure of the part, the other producing an irri- tation of another kind in the part; both, however, act locally, and their ultimate effect is local. Local applications to a part, where those appli- cations possess really the powers of resolution, must be much more effi- cacious than any of the other modes of resolution. For instance, mer- cury has much greater powers when applied immediately to the venereal complaint, than when applied to the nearest surface; where, however, we have not medicines that can resolve inflammation by application, then of course the other method is the most efficacious; but whether we have external or local applications which have really a tendency to lessen the inflammatory disposition is not well ascertained. I doubt our being in possession of many that can remove the immediate cause. Such would of course remove the action, or, if not wholly, would at least lessen it, and allow the inflammation to go off. But most of our powers in this way appear to be of the soothing kind, which therefore lessen the action (although the cause may still exist), and hence the effects arc also lessened. This either produces a termination of the inflammation; or it is protracted, the cause lessens, and the inflammation wears itself out.385 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. As inflammation has too much action, which action gives the idea of strength, such applications ns weaken have been recommended, and cold is one of them. Cold, according to its degrees, produces two very dif- ferent effects, one is the exciting of action without lessening the powers, the other is absolutely debilitating, while at the same time it excites action, if carried too far. In the first it becomes like suitable exercise to the vascular system, as bodily exercise is to the muscles, increasing- strength ; but when carried or continued beyond this point it lessens the powers, and becomes a weakener, calling up the action of resistance after the powers are lessened: therefore cold should not be indiscrimi- nately used, and should be well proportioned to the powers. Cold produces the action of contraction in the vessels, which is an action of weakness. A degree of cold suddenly applied, which hardly produces more than the sense of cold, excites action after the immedi- ate effect is over, which is the action of dilatation, and which is the effect of the cold bath when it agrees ; and as cold produces weakness in pro- portion to its degree, its application should not be carried too far, for then it produces a much -worse disease, viz. irritability, or over-action in respect to the strength of the parts, and then indolence too often commences. Cold might be supposed to act on an inflamed part simi- larly to its action on a frozen part, restraining action, keeping it within the strength of the part in the one case, so as not to allow death to take place from over-action, and in the other keeping it within bounds*. Lead is also supposed to have considerable effects in this way; but 1 believe much more is ascribed to it than it deserves. The property of lead appears to be that of lessening the powers and.not the action ; it therefore should never be used but when the powers arc too strong, and acting with too much violence. However, lead certainly has the power of producing the contraction of the vessels; and therefore, where there is great strength, lead is certainly a powerful application. Applications which can weaken should never be applied to an irri- table inflammation, especially if the irritability arises from weakness. I am certain I have seen lead increase such inflammations, particularly in many inflammations of. the eyes and eyelids, and I believe it is a bad * As cold can bo applied upon two very different principles, it is necessary to mcn- Uon which is here meant. When cold is applied cither within the powers of resistance of the part to excite heat, or only for so short a time as to give the stimulus of cold, then a reaction takes place, and warmth is the consequence! but if cold is applied be- yond the powers of resistance, then a contraction of the vessels takes place, and that contraction is in some degree permanent. But this must be done with caution ; for if continued too long it will produce debility, and action will be excited which will be irritable. In the present case the application of cold should only be sufficient to excite the contraction of the vessels, and that not continued loo long, for reasons above assigned vol. in. 2 cTHE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 38G application in all scrofulous cases; in such cases the parts should be strengthened without producing action. Warmth, more especially when joined with moisture, called fomenta- tion, is commonly had recourse to, but I am certain that warmth, when as much as the sensitive principle can bear, excites action; but whether it is the action of inflammation, or the action of the contraction of the vessels, I cannot determine. We see that in many cases they cannot hear it, and therefore it might be supposed to increase the action of dila- tation, and do hurt; but if that pain arises from the contraction of the inflamed vessels, then it is doing good; hut this I doubt, because 1 rather conceive the action of contraction would give ease. Acids have certainly a sedative power, as also alcohol, and I believe many of the neutral salts. I believe it is not known that we have the power of adding strength to a part by local applications: that in general, I believe, must arise from the constitution ; for although we have the power of giving action, yet tills does not imply strength. Many local applications are recommended to us, respecting many of which I have my doubts. The mode of cure by an irritation different from the disease appears to increase the disease; but by destroying the first mode of action it produces another disease, viz. one according to the mode of irritation of the application, and which more easily admits of a cure than the first. I believe, however, that this takes place principally in specific diseases, and not so readily in common inflammation; for a common inflamma- tion most probably w'ould be increased by it. I have known specific inflammations much more easily cured by their specific medicine than the common inflammation of the same constitution, viz. I have seen a gonorrhoea and a chancre cured much more easily in some constitutions than an inflammation from an accident, and oftener than once or twice in the same person. However, this mode will not do in all specific dis- eases, for the scrofula will not change its nature by it, nor will the irri- table, although specific. The venereal gonorrhoea (if parts are very ir- ritable) is an instance of this, for irritating injections increase it; still we have many cutaneous inflammations cured in this way, for a pretty strong solution of corrosive sublimate will remove an inflammation of the skin. The ungucntum citrinum, mixed with any common ointment, cures many inflammations of the eyelids ; yet I believe that artificial irritations are similar to one another, and I do not know if there be any difference between them, although I can conceive one may agree better with some constitutions than others. However, these local or imme- diate applications can only be such as come in contact with the disease,TITE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 387 which always must he some exposed surface, as when the skin of the eyelids, tonsils, &c. are inflamed; but even there some part must be affected by continued sympathy if they produce a-cure, as the inflam- mation generally goes beyond the surface of immediate contact. That inflammation which admits of repulsion, although by local means, might be considered here; but, from its effects and connexion with the constitution, it comes in more properly with the several relations under which I shall consider ita. [ The three great means of reducing inflammation must ever consist in tl.e use of bloodletting, purging, and the adoption of an antiphlogistic regimen. In regard to which ,t may be observed, that the first should be had recourse to early in the disease and be carried to such an extent as to produce an evident abatement of the symptoms’ the second should be so contrived as to ensure a regular and continued action of (he bowels during the whole course of the disease ; and the third should not be relaxed ■ n until all the symptoms of active inflammation have disappeared. To these all other measures must be regarded as subsidiary in cases of extensive inflammation affecting vital parts, although in cases of less severity it may happen that the auxiliary measures or some particular methods of treatment adapted to the peculiar circumstances of the’ case, may claim the principal attention. Among the auxiliary measures brought for- ward since the authors death, two or three may here be briefly adverted to, for the purpose chiefly of pointing them out to the student’s attention rather than of forming any exact appreciation of their value. “ so !J hC effiC,a7 f mem7 in COntro,li"g »’c inflammatory action is in no instance so well cxemphhed as in inflammation of the iris ; for, as the parts arc here open to our uew, we obtain demonstrative evidence of its power, not only in checking the morbid action hut in occasioning the absorption of adventitious deposits. The efficacy of mer- cury, however, ts limited to particular cases. It is greatest in iritis, laryngitis, Impa- rt,s, and inflammation of the testicle; less in the mucous and serous membranes and he parenchymatous vtscera ; and still less in the common cellular membrane and other tissues. Its success is most marked in dispelling the remaining inflammation after the acute symptoms have been subdued, and therefore it should not be administered until a proper measure of bloodletting and purging have been previously adopted Its ad- ministration .should also he continuous, sons to keep the constitution under its influence discontinued^ C'ther l0Cal " C°nS,itUtio,,al irritation its ««e should be immediately 2. It has been proposed to accomplish all the beneficial objects of depletion by the administration of sedative medicines, such as digitalis and prussic acid, which by act- ing directly on the heart reduce the strength and frequency of the pulse; but experi- ence has not confirmed these pretensions, nor was it indeed to he expected, sin J (l,e Uon\vhi7y \ lhC ST effcctsarc Ponced by many form, of visceral infiamma- t.on, which proceed nevertheless to a fatal termination, and that too with the greatc, certainty in proportion as tl.ese symptoms continue: neither have emetics, except in a few mstances, any deeded effect in checking inflammatory action, although the depres- sion which they produce ts very nearly analogous to that produced by the above-men- tioned medicines. Excitability and stimulants are correlative terms, but very different effects are produced by the temporary reduction of the former and the actual reduction maskedaUCr: ^ tl>C thC discase is removed> but by the former it is merely 3' Tl'e C(ruct of smtimonial medicines is to lower tbe pulse aud to restore the actions 2c 2THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 388 §. 12. General Observations on Repulsion, Sympathy, Deri- vation, Revulsion, and Translation. These terms are meant to be expressive of a change in the situation of diseased actions in the body, and they are so named according to the immediate cause, for any one disease may admit of any of these modes equally ; that is, a disease which admits of being repelled may admit of being cured by sympathy, which probably includes derivation, repulsion, and translation. That such a principle or principles exist is, I think, evident, but the precise mode of action is, I believe, not known; that is, it is not known what part of the body more readily accepts of the action of another; if there are such parts, they might be called correspon- dent parts, whether the action changes its place from repulsion, sym- pathy, derivation, or translation. In derivation and repulsion, whether one mode of irritation is better than another, to invite or divert the ac- tion, and whether parts of a peculiar action do not require a peculiar irritation to divert them ; to all this we are likewise totally strangers. It is not to my present purpose to go into the different effects of this principle, although I must own it might be as useful a part of the heal- ing art as any; and even more, for it is probably the least known, as being the least intelligible, and therefore the more use may be derived from its investigation. The operations denominated by these terms, so far as they exist, ap- f of the skin; but it has been proposed by Tomraasini and the Italian physicians to ad- minister the antimonium tartarizatum in large doses of from ten to sixty or even ninety grains, two or three times a day, which in cases where it is likely to prove beneficial are said not to produce sickness and purging, except after the first dose, but to act spe- cifically on the extreme vessels so as to correct the morbid action. The plan, however, has been tried in this country without success, and in those cases where it has appeared to be of service, the good effects have seemed to arise either from the evacuation of the stomach in the first instance by vomiting, or by keeping up a gentle action of the bowels by purging, or else by subduing to a certain extent the heart’s action; effects which may clearly be attained with more safety and ease by other m?ans. 4. The last measure which 1 shall mention is the adoption of incisions, for which we are chiefly indebted to Mr. Copland Hutchinson and Mr. Lawrence. This method is principally serviceable in erysipelas, or diffuse inflammation of the cellular membrane. In the former case it relieves the tension of the skin and effectually unloads the vessels, while in the latter it gives exit to sloughs or putrid matter, and excites the parts to a healthy action. The length and depth of the incisions may vary from mere superficial incisions of a half inch in length to deep incisures extending through the whole adipose structure and reaching to a foot in extent. This plan is often very successful where the patient has a robust constitution, and has besides the courage to submit to so severe a method of procedure; but in other cases, especially if the incisions are of great extent, the loss of blood may prove fatal, or at least so weaken the patient as considerably to protract the convalescence.]389 TIIE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. pear all to belong to the same principle in the animal oeconomy, for they all consist either in a chancre of the situation of a disease or its action; O —a change of the situation, as in the gout; a change of the action, as a swelling of the testicles in the stopping of a gonorrhoea. This last is not properly a change of the situation of the disease, but only of the general inflammatory action without the specific action ; these principles can only produce a change in the seat of action, not in any of the con- sequences of disease ; they have in some instances a connexion with the natural operations of the body, as it were, interfering with them; and when that is the case they in general must produce disease of some kind. Thus the stopping of the menses, which is a local natural action arising from the constitution, may be effected by local applications called repelling, by a derangement of the constitution, and by many consequences which depend on a deranged constitution simply; or it may be drawn off by a derangement of the constitution, wrhich is a kind of derivation or revulsion. We find that local applications derange also other parts, which have no visible effect upon the part of application as the above, nor any visible connexion with the parts which assume the action. Thus cold, especially if wet be applied to the feet, will bring on complaints in the stomach and bowels by sympathy; and the same mode of application of cold, if local, will produce a local complaint, as cold air blowing on a part will bring on rheumatism. These changes were all supposed formerly to be of more consequence than i apprehend they really are, for they are only the change of situ- ation of disease. They were introduced into the oeconomy of disease from the idea of humours. Repellents were such applications as drove the humours out of a part, which would fall on some other; sympathy consisted in another part taking them up ; derivation was a drawing off, or inviting the humours; revulsion was the same ; and translation was the moving of humours from one part to another. Thus we have those different terms applied to that connexion of parts, by which one part being affected, some other is affected or relieved; or, as in translation, some other part takes up the disease as it were voluntarily, as is often the case in the gout. All of these produce one of the symptoms of a disease, viz. sensation and inflammation, but I believe seldom if ever real diseased structures. This agrees with whatwras formerly observed, that local inflammations depending on the constitution seldom if ever suppurate**. [The present state of our knowledge does not enable us to give a complete account of these varieties of action, viz. repulsion, derivation, and metastasis; but it seems pro- bable that they are all ultimately to be referred to the same general principle. TheTHE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 390 I believe that these powers have greater effects in diseases depending on or producing action and sensation, which are called nervous, than on those producing an alteration in the structure of parts. Thus we have the cramp in the leg cured by a gentle irritation round the lower part of the thigh, such as a garter, which may be said to arise from deriva- tion or sympathy; and I have known, in a nervous girl, a pain in one arm cured by rubbing the other. These cures by derivation, repulsion, translation, etc. do not deserve that name, although the patients arc cured of the original disease, as in many cases there is as large a quantity somewhere else in the body un- cured ; for example, in those cases where the cure is from some local inllammation being produced, and perhaps more violent than the first; but in other cases, where the cure arises only from an action in a part without a diseased alteration of structure, then the cure in such cases is performed without any other disease having been produced, such as sickness or vomiting curing a disease of the testicles. I have already observed that local applications were principally sup- posed to repel, by the first or second mode of action ; yet internal me- dicines having a specific, or what might be called a local action, although given internally, may repel by stopping the diseased action in the part which it chiefly affects, such as mercury falling on the mouth, might repel a disease from the mouth. Hemlock might do the same with regard to the head, or turpentine with regard to the urethra. In the last we often find by taking balsams, that by stopping the discharge a swelling of the testicles comes on, or an irritable bladder. As repulsion in this way is not so evident, it is less noticed. The uncertainty in the powTer of medicines respecting repulsion, has led surgeons into more errors than any other principle in the animal occonomy, with regard to diseases. primary laws which appear to govern these phenomena are, first, the tendency which there is in all animal bodies to preserve an equilibrium, in consequence of which it happens that when any one part of the frame is unusually excited, a corresponding di- minution takes place in the functions of other parts, so that in disease, the lesser disease gives way to the greater; and secondly, the affinities of structure and function, and the mutual relations which subsist between different parts, in a state of health; for it accords with experience, and at the same time is most agreeable to reason, to find that those parts which have a similarity of structure, and consequently of vital endowments, should be affected more readily by the causes of disease than parts of a different construction ; and also, that parts associated in health should likewise become associated in disease. The former law explains in some measure the general principle of metastasis; the latter, the particular cause which determines the disease to any one organ rather than to another. The author has expressed his opinion, that in these affections the inflammation, but not tin- disease, is translated (p, 325); but this is a refined distinction, in opposition to the general fact, that the liability to metastasis is almost exclusively confined to specific diseases.]THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 391 It has prevented their acting in many cases where they might have done it with safety and effect. A stronger instance cannot be given than in that species of the venereal disease called a gonorrhoea, which they did not venture to cure by local applications, for fear of driving it into the constitution, and producing a pox ; but they did not consider that a gonorrhoea did not arise from the constitution, but may be said to arise from accident, or at least is entirely local, and therefore no repulsion could take place. The idea of repelling was first introduced when local diseases were supposed to arise from a deposit or derivation of humours to a part, and is still retained by those who cannot or will not allow themselves to think better; yet still the term might be applied to dis- eased action ; for the removal of many diseased actions from a part which fall on some other- part is certainly the repelling of that diseased action; but since it is not subdued, but only driven from the part, as is often the case with the gout, no cure is performed by this means. Both or either of the two local methods of removing disease, just now mentioned, viz. whether by simply curing the disease, or by destroying the diseased action, in consequence of exciting an action of another kind, may produce the effect called repulsion; but the former, I believe, can only take place in inflammations arising from the constitution, and which being prevented from settling in this part, return upon the constitution again, and often fall upon some other part, viz. one next in order of susceptibility for such inflammation, as is often the case in the gout, and in many other diseases besides inflammation, as in many nervous complaints. St. Vitus’s dance is a remarkable instance of it; but in this case it is not to be considered as a cure of the disease, but only as a suspension of its action in this part. I could conceive it possible that the second mode of local cure, which is by producing an irritation of another kind, might not repel, although it cured the first or local complaint, because there is in such modes of cure still a larger quantity of inflammation in the part than was pro- duced by the disease (although of another kind) ; but as the idea of re- pelling is to have a disease somewhere, although not in the same place, keeping it in the present situation may be as proper, if not more so, than in any other it might go to. But if, on the other hand, the con- stitution requires to have a local complaint arising from itself, which, as it were, is drawing off or relieving this constitutional disposition, then curing the one already formed, by producing another in the same part, can be of no service; for if the artificial disease is not of the same nature with the constitutional one (which it cannot be if it destroys it), then it cannot act as a substitute for it. We may observe, that by producing an irritation of another kind in the gout, we may destroy the392 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. gouty inflammation in the part, but cannot always clear the constitution of it; there is therefore no benefit arising from such practice in these cases. The repelling powers which act from applications being made to the parts immediately affected, or by the change of one disease into another, become the most difficult of any to be ascertained; because it must be very difficult to say what will merely repel and what will completely cure, or perfectly change the disease. Repulsion is certainly to be con- sidered as a cure of the part, whatever may be the consequence; and a change in the disease is certainly a cure of the first, although a disease may still exist in the part. That an artificial irritation made on one part does not (always at least) cure or remove a diseased irritation of a specific nature in another part, is, I think, evident in many cases, even although that specific [disease] should be an affection of the constitution. This at least was evident in a case of the gout, for when the gout was in some of the vital parts, and sinapisms were applied to the feet, they did not relieve those vital parts, although the inflammation in consequence of the sinapisms was considerable ; but this inflammation brought on the gout in the feet, and as soon as this happened the vital parts were relieved, from which it would appear that a specific irritation required a specific derivator. It may be supposed that the inflammation, in consequence of the sinapisms, brought on or produced such a derangement in the feet as made them more susceptible of the gout, or that the inflammation became an im- mediate cause of the action of the gout taking place there. It is plain, too, that where there is a gouty disposition, or a gouty action in the constitution, a derangement in a part may bring it on, for in the above person, who had still those internal spasms recurring upon the least exercise or anxiety of mind, but was in all other respects, and at all other times, well, by applying sinapisms a second time to his feet, till a considerable cutaneous inflammation came on, the gout attacked the ball of the great toe of the right foot, and the last joint of the great toe of the left, which lasted about two days. This attack of gout, how- ever, did not relieve him of the remaining spasms, as the first did, and therefore was to be considered an additional gouty action. This could certainly not have taken place if the constitution had not been gouty. In diseases where we have no specific application capable of acting immediately, the advantages gained by derivation, revulsion, or sym- pathy are much greater in many cases than by the effects of any local application at present known ; and the medicines which arc capable of producing this effect are often such as would either have uo“ cfl'ect if up- » [" an effect” in the original text.]393 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. plied to the diseased part, or would increase it. This arises from the dissimilar actions of the two parts ; that is, the diseased actions of the one being similar0 to, or producing the actions of recovery in the other; nor is it difficult to conceive why it should be so; for since the medi- cines are not specifics, but only invite or remove the disease by that connexion which the living powers of the one part have with those of another, it is reasonable to suppose that this principle of action between the parts must be much stronger than the effects of many medicines which have only a tendency to cure, or perhaps no tendency that way at all. Thus we find that vomits will often cure inflammations of the testicles when all soothing applications prove ineffectual, and when the same emetic could not have the least effect on the part itself were it ap- plied to it. Thus we also find that a caustic behind the ear will relieve inflammations of the eyes or eyelids, when every application to the parts affected has proved ineffectual, and when this caustic, if applied to the parts themselves only as a stimulant, would increase the disease. Sympathy, perhaps, (except the continued) includes the mode of action in all of those which I have called relatives, viz. repulsion, derivation, revulsion, and translation ; at least it is probably the same principle in the whole. What I would call a cure by sympathy, is producing a curative action in a sound part, that the diseased may take on the same mode of action from sympathy that it would take on if the curative was applied to it; so that sympathy might even be supposed to repel in cases which would admit of repelling, and fall on some other part, although not the part necessarily where the application was made. The difference be- tween derivation or repulsion, and sympathy, consists in derivation pro- ducing a disease in a sound part to cure a disease in another part, as was observed; while sympathy is applying the cure to a sound part to cure the diseased; but in many cases it will be very difficult to distinguish the one from the other. Sympathy is very universal, or more general than any [of the] others; for there are few local diseases that do not extend beyond the surface of contact, which produces continued sym- pathy ; and also, there are few parts that have not some connexion with some other part, which gives us remote sympathy. It may be recollected, that when sympathy was treated of, it was divided into continued, contiguous, remote, similar, and dissimilar. I he cure by continued sympathy is that application which we have reason to suppose 'would cure if applied to the part itself, such as ap- plying mercury to the skin over a venereal node. The node is cured by its sympathizing with the mercurial irritation of the skin ; and the * [The sense of the passage seems to require'that we should read dissimilar.]TIIE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 394 action of the sympathizer here is similar to the action of the part of ap- plication. Remote sympathy is seldom if ever produced by a similarity of action in similar parts, but most probably cures by dissimilar modes of action in the two parts, and therefore might be called dissimilar sym- pathy, viz. by stimulating the part of application in such a way that the sympathizer shall act in the same way as if the real application of cure was made to it, and yet the mode of action of the part of application shall not be at all similar to the sympathizer. I can even suppose a local disease cured by sympathy, and by that medicine which would increase it, if applied immediately to it. Let us suppose, for example, any dis- eased mode of action, and that this mode could be increased by some irritating medicine, if applied [directly] to it; but apply this irritator to some other part which this diseased part sympathizes with, and [sup- pose] that the sympathetic act in the diseased part shall be the same as if its [proper] curative medicine was applied to it,—similar [in short] to what would have taken place if its specific irritator was applied,—then, in such a case the medicine would cure by sympathy, although it would increase the disease if applied locally, or have no effect at all. The contiguous sympathy is where it would appear to act from the approximation of dissimilar parts, and therefore is not continued sym- pathy ; neither can it be called remote sympathy, as there appears to be no specific connexion, but to arise entirely from contiguity or approxi- mation of parts. Of this kind are blisters on the head, curing head- ache ; on the chest, curing pains in the chest; to the pit of the stomach, to cure irritations there ; to the belly, to cure complaints of the bowels. The applications which act by contiguous sympathy are only those which can be applied to the nearest surface to that which is inflamed, when the inflamed part beyond this surface becomes affected in some degree similar to the part of application, such as the applications to the eye- lids, when the inflammation is in the eye; to the scrotum, when it is in the testicle ; to the abdomen, when some of the bowels are inflamed ; to the thorax, in inflammations of the lungs, etc. These may be either of the specific, stimulating, or soothing kinds,—something which affects the parts in such a manner as that a remote diseased action ceases. It may be specific, as opium applied to the pit of the stomach curing an irritation of that viscus; stimulating, as blisters to cure inflammation in the subjacent viscera, as has been mentioned; soothing, as fomentations to the abdomen to relieve complaints in the bowels. Derivation means a cessation of action in one part, in consequence of an action having taken place in another; and when this is a cessation of a diseased action, then a cure of that action in the original part may be said to be performed ; this cure was brought into use from the ideaTHE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 395 of humours, that is, the drawing off of the humours from the seat where they had taken possession ; but I believe much more has been ascribed to it than it deserves. How far it really takes place I have not been able fully to ascertain in all its parts; that is, how far the real disease is in- vited, and accepts of the invitation; but I have already observed, that there is such a principle of disease in the animal oeconomy, although we must sec from derivation that the same quantity, or perhaps more irri- tation, is retained in the constitution; yet the artificial irritation pro- duced being either such as more readily admits of a cure than the dis- ease in the part, or being in parts which are not so essential to life, an advantage by this means is gained; thus, burning the ear is practised as a cure for the tooth-ache, and the part which is burnt more readily admits of a cure than the tooth. We also find that blisters often cure or remove deep-seated pains, such as head-ache, and relieve the bladder when applied to the perinaeum. Blisters and caustics behind the ear cure also inflammations of the eye. Less may be said on revulsion, since we have explained derivation. To draw off a disease always implies safe ground, and can be applied with safety in any disease; revulsion can best be applied when the dis- ease attacks essential parts, where the application cannot be so near as to imply derivation. Thus we find that vomits will cure an inflamma- tion of the testicles, white swellings, and even venereal buboes ; and si- napisms applied to the feet relieve the head. • Translation differs from derivation, revulsion, and repulsion, only as it proceeds from a natural or spontaneous cause, whereas these proceed from an artificial, accidental, or external cause, and the common prin- ciple of them all seems to be sympathy ; for if not an act of its own [i. e. of the disease itself], then it must be either repelled, derived, or from sympathy. Very strange instances of translation are given us ; it has been supposed that pus already formed has been translated to another part of the body, deposited there in form of an abscess, and then dis- charged. This is an operation absolutely impossible®. Matter absorbed may be carried off by some of the secretions, such as that by the kid- neys, which have a power of removing more than they secrete ; but the deposition of pus is the same with its formation. Both revulsion and repulsion may be reckoned a species of translation. The gout moving of its own accord from the stomach to the foot, or from one foot to the other, may be reckoned a translation of the gout. * [ lies opinion is nevertheless entertained by several justly celebrated physiologists ' t ic present day. See Vol. I., 352, note, and Andral, Anat. Pathol., i. 105.]THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 39G §. 13. Of the different Forms in which Medicines are applied, and the subsiding of Inflammation. Fomentations or steams, washes, and poultices are the common ap- plications to a part in the state of inflammation. The first and last arc commonly applied to inflammation arising from external violence, and proceeding to suppuration ; the second, commonly to internal surfaces, ns the mouth, nose, urethra, vagina, rectum, etc. The action of the two first is but of very short duration. Fomentations and steams are fluid bodies raised into vapour: thby may be either simple or compound; simple, as steam, or vapour of water; compound, as steam of water impregnated with medicines. This mode of applying heat and moisture appears, from experience, to be more efficacious than when these are applied in the form of a fluid; it often gives ease at the time of the application, while at other times it gives great pain; but if it does give ease, the symptoms generally re- turn between the times of applying it, and with nearly the same violence. How far the application of a medicine for fifteen minutes out of twenty- four hours can do good, I am not certain; we find, however, that the application of a vapour of a specific medicine, though but for a few mi- nutes in the day, will have very considerable effects : fumigations with cinnabar may serve as art instance®. The fomentations are commonly composed of the decoction of herbs; sometimes of the marsh-mallows, but oftener of the decoction of herbs possessing essential oil, which I believe are the best; because I suppose that whatever will excite con- traction of the vessels, will in some degree counteract the dilating prin- ciple. Vinegar as well as spirits are put into them, but how far they stimulate to contraction I do not know, but rather believe they remove irritation, which must lessen the inflammatory action. Washes are in general fluid applications, and are more commonly ap- plied to inflammations of internal surfaces than of the common integu- ments : there are washes to the eye called collyria ; washes to the mouth and throat, called gargles; washes to the urethra, called injections ; and to the rectum, called clysters; but I am fearful that we are not yet ac- quainted with the true specific virtues of these washes, at least there is something very vague in their application. There are, for instance, astringent washes for the inflammation of the eye, such as white and blue vitriol, alum, etc.; stimulating warm gargles for inflammations of the throat, such as mustard, red port, claret with vinegar and honey ; but • [But in this instance the mercury is rapidly absorbed into the system.]397 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. to moderate or resolve external inflammations, they do not apply sub- stances with any such properties11. How absurd would it appear to sur- geons in general, if any one made use of the same applications to an in- flammation in any other part; yet I do not know if there is any difference between an inflammation of the eye or throat, and one in any other part, if the inflammations are of the same kind : mercury cures a venereal in- flammation, either of the eye or throat, as easily as a venereal inflamma- tion any -where else, because it is an inflammation of the same kind. These applications, like fomentations, are of short duration, for there is no possibility of applying these powers constantly, except in the form of a poultice, whose operation is somewhat similar; and, indeed, they are only substitutes for a poultice, where that mode of application can- not be made use of, as I observed with respect to internal surfaces. Poultices are constant applications, and, like fomentations, may be of two kinds, either simply warm and wet, or medicated. The greatest effect that a poultice can produce must be immediate, but its power will extend beyond the surface of contact, although only in a secondary degree. To the common inflammation the simplest poultices are supposed to be the best, and produce their effect, I believe, only by keeping the parts easier under the complaint; but I am of opinion that such do not affect the inflammation any other way. A common poultice is, perhaps, one of the best applications when we mean to do nothing but to allow nature to perform the cure with as much ease to herself as possible. Poultices may be medicated, so as to be adapted to the kind of inflammation, as with the solution of lead, opium, mercury, etc.; in short, they may be compounded with any kind of medicine. Whatever the disposition is which produces inflammation, and what- ever the actions are which produce the effects, that disposition, under certain circumstances, viz. when it arises either from the constitution or the parts, can be removed, and of course the actions excited by it. The disposition for inflammation shall have taken place, and the vessels which are the active parts shall have dilated, and allowed more blood to enter them, so that the part shall look red; but no hardness or ful- ness shall be observed, and the whole shall subside before adhesions [The reason of this is sufficiently obvious, for if the external integuments of the body are deprived of their defence of cuticle, and assimilated therefore in conditions to the mucous membranes, the same effects arc produced in them ; which effects it may he observed are more or less of a permanent nature. The consequences which ensue from the application of various metallic or saline solutions to the web of a frog’s foot, leave no doubt ns to the fact of the imbibition of foreign substances by the lining cuticle, and of their influence upon the subjacent vessels.]398 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. have been formed; or if inflammation lias gone so far as to produce swelling, which is the adhesive stage of the disease, it by certain me- thods can be frequently so assuaged as to prevent suppuration taking place, and then the parts will fall back into their natural state, which is called resolution, some adhesions being perhaps the only remaining con- sequences of the inflammation. The same methods are likewise often used with considerable success in lessening inflammation arising from violence, so as to prevent sup- puration entirely; but in many of these cases they are not sufficient, and in those where it cannot be prevented, yet it may be lessened by the same means. As the first symptom of inflammation is commonly pain, so is the first symptom of resolution a cessation of that pain, as well as one of the symptoms of suppuration, which is a species of resolution. I have known the cessation of pain so quick as to appear like a charm, although no other visible alteration had taken place, the swelling and colour being the same. Why inflammation of any kind should cease after it has once begun is very difficult to explain, or even to form an idea of, since as yet we have no mode of counteracting the first cause, or irritation. It may be supposed to arise from the principle, of parts adapting themselves in time to their present situation, which I call custom ; and that therefore, in order to keep up the inflammation, it would be necessary for the cause to increase in proportion as the parts get reconciled to their present cir- cumstances. But, allowing this to be the cause, it will not account for their returning back to their natural or original state, when this increase of irritation ceases, and only the last or original irritation remains ; for upon this principle they only grow more easy under their present state, or perhaps, which is worse, acquire a habit of it, which may be the cause of many indolent specific diseases. If we suppose the removal of the original cause to be sufficient to stop the progress of inflammation, and when this is stopped that the parts cannot easily remain in the same inflamed state, but by their own efforts begin to restore themselves to health, (which we can easily conceive to be the case in specific diseases, especially those arising from poisons of such kinds as are capable of a termination, as the smallpox, or where a cure can be administered for the effects of the poison, as in the lues venerea,) then we must conclude that the inflamed state is an uneasy state,—a force upon the organs which suffer it, like the bending of a spring, which is always endeavouring to restore itself, and the moment that the power is removed returns back to its natural slate again ; or it may be like the mind, forgetful of injuries.TIIE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 399 §. 14. Of the Use of the Adhesive Inflammation. This inflammation may be said in all cases to arise from a state of parts in which they cannot remain, and therefore an irritation of imper- fection takes place. It may be looked upon as the effect of wise coun- sels, the constitution being so formed as to take spontaneously all the precautions necessary for its defence; for in most cases we shall evi- dently see that it answers wise purposes. Its utility may be said to be both local and constitutional, but cer- tainly most so with regard to the first. Its utility is most evident when it arises from a disease in a part, whether this proceeds from the con- stitution or otherwise ; and when it does, it must be considered as ari- sing from a state in which that part cannot exist,—as in exposure,— and therefore is the first step towards a cure. It is often of service in those cases which arise from violence, although not necessarily so, the injured parts not being always under the necessity of having recourse to it, as was shown in treating of union by the first intention. When the adhesive inflammation arises from the constitution, it may depend on some disease of that constitution ; and if so, it may be con- ceived to be of use to it, especially if it should be supposed to be the termination of a universal irritation in a local one, by that means re- lieving the constitution of the former, as in the gout; but when it is only the simple adhesive inflammation that takes place, I am rather apt to think that it is more a part of the disease than a termination of it, or an act of the constitution. The adhesive inflammation serves as a check to the suppurative by making parts, which otherwise must infallibly fall into that state, pre- viously unite, in order to prevent its access, as was described when speak- ing of the adhesive inflammation being limited; and where it cannot produce this effect, so as altogether to hinder the suppurative inflam- mation itself from taking place, it becomes in most cases a check upon the extent of it. This we see evidently to be the case in large cavities, as in the tunica vaginalis after the operation for the hydrocele; for after the water has made its escape, parts of the collapsed sac frequently unite to other parts of the same sac by this inflammation, and thereby pre- clude the suppurative from extending beyond these adhesions, which so far prevents the intention of the surgeon from having its full effect; and often, on the other hand, the adhesive state of the inflammation takes place universally in this bag, in consequence of the palliative cure, which produces the radical cure, and prevents a relapse. In the hernia it performs a cure by uniting the two sides of the sac together, by meansTHE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 400 of slight pressure, so that we should understand perfectly its mode of action, where it can prevent a cure, and where it can perform one. In still larger cavities, such as the abdomen, (where often only a partial in- flammation takes place, as'is frequently the case after childbearing and in wounds of this cavity,) we find this inflammation produced; which either prevents the suppurative altogether, or if it does not, it unites the parts surrounding the suppurative centre, and confines the suppuration to that point; and as the abscess increases in size, the adhesive inflam- mation spreads, uniting the parts as it spreads, so that the general ca- vity is excluded. Thus the suppuration is confined to the first point, and forms there a kind of circumscribed abscess, as will be more fully explained hereafter. In inflammations of the pleura or surface of the lungs, the same thing happens, for the adhesive inflammation takes place, and the surfaces are united, which union going before the suppuration confines it to certain limits, so that distinct abscesses are formed by this union of the parts, and the whole cavity of the thorax is not involved in a general suppu- ration ; such cases are called the spurious empyema. The cellular membrane everywhere in the body is united exactly in the same manner; the sides of the cells throw out, or as it were sweat out, the uniting matter, which fills the cavities and unites the whole into one mass. The adhesive inflammation often disposes the parts to form a cyst or bag ; this is generally to cover some extraneous body that does not irri- tate so much as to produce suppuration, such as a sac formed to inclose a bullet, pieces of glass, &c. With the same wise views it unites the parts or cellular membrane which lies between an abscess and the spot where that abscess has a ten- dency to open, as will be more fully explained hereafter, when I come to treat of ulceration. The lungs are so circumstanced as to partake of the effects of two principles: the one, as an internal uniting surface; the other, as a se- creting surface : the last of which constitutes the peculiar structure and use of this viscus ; and the first is no more than the reticular or uniting substance of the air-cells. The internal or the uniting membrane of the lungs unites readily by the adhesive inflammation, as the cellular mem- brane through the body generally; but the air-cells, like the inner sur- face of the urethra, nose, intestines, &c., pass directly into the suppu- rative inflammation, and therefore do not admit of the adhesive, by which means the matter formed is obliged to be coughed up, which produces symptoms peculiar to the parts affected ; and it is perhaps almost im- possible to produce an inflammation on either of those two surfaces with-THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 401 out affecting the other; which probably is one reason why the treat- ment of inflammation in those parts is attended with such bad success. We cannot give a better illustration of the use of the adhesions pro- duced in consequence of this inflammation, than to contrast it with the erysipelatous, of which I have already given an account. When the erysipelatous inflammation takes place, the matter gets very freely into the surrounding and sound cellular membrane, and then diffuses itself almost over the whole body; while, in another kind of constitution, the adhesive inflammation would have been produced, to have prevented its progress. A man was attacked with a violent inflammation on each side of the anus, which I did not see till some days after it began. It had the ap- pearance of the suppurative inflammation joined with the erysipelatous; for it was not so circumscribed as the suppurative, nor did it spread upon the skin like the true erysipelatous, and the skin had a shining oedema- tous appearance. The inflammation went deeper into the cellular mem- brane than the true erysipelatous. He was bled; the blood was ex- tremely sizy. He took a purge, and was fomented. He had a difficulty in making water, most probably from the pressure of the swelling upon the urethra. The day following I observed that the scrotum of that side was very much swelled, which had extended up the right spermatic chord; and on examining this swelling, I plainly felt a fluid in it, with air, which sounded on being shaken. The case now plainly discovered itself. I immediately opened the suppuration on each side of the anus, which discharged a dusky coloured pus, very foetid, with a good deal of air, and upon squeezing the swelling in the scrotum, &c. I could easily discharge the matter and air by these openings: I therefore made him lie principally upon his back, and squeeze these swellings often, with a view to discharge this matter by the openings. The matter at the part where it was formed was not contained in a bag or abscess, but formed in the cellular membrane, without previous adhesion. rIlie scrotum now inflamed, and seemed to have a tendency to open; at least it looked livid and spotted. I opened it at this part, and it dis- charged a good deal of matter and air. A general suppuration came upon the whole cellular membrane of those parts, and the matter passed up through the cellular membrane of the belly ; and the cellular mem- brane of the loins was loaded with matter, from its sinking down from the cells of the abdomen. I made openings there, and could squeeze out a great deal of matter and air. A mortification came on just above the right groin, and when I removed the slough matter was discharged. I also made openings on the loins, on the side of the abdomen, &c. He 2 D VOL. Ill,THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 402 lived but a few days in this way, during which time the cellular mem- brane was hanging out of the wounds like wet dirty tow. The adhesive inflammation takes place in consequence of accidents, (when it is impossible it should ever produce the same good effects,) such as wounds which are not allowed to or cannot heal by the first in- tention ; for instance, a stump after amputation, and many other wounds: but it is one of those fixed and invariable principles of the animal machine, which upon all such irritations uniformly produces the uniting process, though, like many other principles in the same machine, the effects [which it produces] are perhaps not so much required; so that although a wound is not allowed to heal, or cannot heal by means of the adhe- sive inflammation, yet the surrounding parts go through the common consequences of being wounded, and the surrounding cells are united; as was described when I treated of union by the first intention. It first throws out the blood, as if the intention was to unite the parts again; the newly-cut or tom ends of the vessels, however, soon contract and close up, and then the discharge is not blood, but a serum with the co- agulating part of the blood, similar to that which is produced by the adhesive state of inflammation, so that they go through the two first processes of union ; therefore the use of the adhesive inflammation does not appear so evidently in these cases as in spontaneous inflammations : however, in case of wounds which are allowed to suppurate, it answers the great purpose of uniting the cells at the cut surface, from their being simply in contact with each other, as has been described, which confines the inflammation to that part, without which the irritation arising from this state of imperfection might have been communicated from cell to cell, and proceed further than it commonly does. The cut vessels, by this means, are also united, which hinders the progress of inflammation from running along their cavities, as we find sometimes to be the case in the veins of a wounded surface, where this inflammation has not taken place. From everything which has been said it must appear that all sur- faces, which are suppurating in consequence of this inflammation, have their basis in that state of the adhesive inflammation which very nearly approaches to suppuration; and this inflammation is less and less as it recedes further from the suppurating centre.403 OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. CHAPTER IV. OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. When the adhesive inflammation is not capable of resolution, and has gone as far as possible to prevent the necessity of suppuration, espe- cially in those cases that might have admitted of a resolution, as in spontaneous* inflammations in general, where there has neither been an exposed laceration of the solids, nor, as before mentioned, loss of substance, but where the natural functions of the part have only been so deranged that it was unable to fall back into a natural and sound state again; or, secondly, where it was a consequence of such accidents, as the effects of the adhesive could not in the least prevent, (as in wounds that were prevented from healing by the first or second inten- tention,) then, under either of these two circumstances, suppuration takes place. The immediate effect of suppuration is the production of pus from the inflamed surface, which appears in such cases, or under such cir- cumstances, to be a leading step to the formation of a new substance, called granulations, which granulations are the third method in the first order of parts of restoring those parts to health; but upon all internal canals suppuration is certainly not a leading step to granulations, which will be explained hereafter. The same theory of the adhesive inflammation respecting the vessels is, I believe, applicable to the suppurative ; for when suppuration is the first, we have the vessels in the same state as in the adhesive when it happens, but their dispositions and actions must have altered, there being a great difference in their effects. 1 his is so much the case, that the true inflammatory disposition and action almost immediately ceases upon the commencement of suppu- ration ; and although the vessels may be nearly in the same state, yet they are in a much more quiescent state than before, and have acquired a new mode of action. I shall endeavour to establish as an invariable fact that no suppura- tion takes place which is not preceded by inflammation; that is, that no I have used this word to denote a case where no visible cause of inflammation exist* j or strictly there can be no such thing in nature as spontaneous. 2 d 2OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. 404 pus is formed but in consequence of it. That it is an effect of inflamma- tion only is proved in abscesses from a breach in the solids, attended with exposure, and from extraneous matter of all kinds, whether intro- duced or formed there. In abscess, suppuration is an immediate con- sequence of inflammation: from the exposure of internal cavities no suppuration comes on till inflammation has formed the disposition and action; and although we find collections of extraneous matter, some- thing like pus, in different parts of the body, yet such extraneous matter is not pus. However, towards the last, in such collections, pus is often formed; but then this is in consequence of inflammation having taken place towards the surface, and when such collections are opened they immediately inflame universally, similar to every other breach of the solids, and then the future discharge is pus, all of which I shall now treat. The irritation, which is immediately the cause of suppuration, is the same, from whatever cause it may proceed, similar to that which pro- duces the adhesive stage; it [suppuration] is a similar process going through the same stages, and attended with nearly the same circum- stances, whether it takes its rise from external violence, the constitu- tion, or a disposition in the part, if all other circumstances are equal. However, it is not so general in its causes as the adhesive, for the thick- ening process will take place in many diseases where true suppuration is not admitted, as in some scrofulous cases, some venereal, and also some cancers. Suppuration, therefore, depends more on the soundness of parts than the adhesive inflammation ; and this is so much the case that we can, in some degree, judge of a sore simply by its discharge. It appears very difficult to give a true and clear idea of the whole chain of causes leading to suppuration. The immediate state of parts, which may be called the immediate cause, I conceive to be such as can- not carry on its usual functions of life, and which state of parts I ha\ e called the state of imperfection, let the cause of that state be what it will*. We have shown that irritation simply is not always sufficient; it often only brings on the adhesive stage, which is in most cases in- tended to prevent the suppurative, as has been observed. It fe a curious fact to see the same mode of action producing two such contrary effects, and each tending to a cure : the first producing from necessity the second, and being also subservient to it. Violence done to parts is one of the great causes of suppuration; but we have already remarked that violence simply docs not always produce this in- * [To say that the causes of suppuration operate by inducing a “state of imperfec- tion,” is, after all, a mere figurative generalization, which does not advance us a single step nearer the solution of the difficulty.]405 OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. flammation, but that it must be a violence followed by a prevention of the parts performing their cure in a more simple way, viz. a restoration of the structure, so as [to be able] to carry on the animal functions of the part, or, in other words, a prevention of union by the first or second intention; or [a violence] attended with this circumstance, viz. that the parts are kept a sufficient time in that state into which they were put by the violence ; or, what is something similar to this, a violence attended with death in a part, such as in many bruises, mortifications, sloughs in consequence of caustics, &c., which, when separated, have exposed in- ternal surfaces*. Various have been the opinions on this subject; and as every violence committed from without, under the circumstances before mentioned, is exposed more or less to the surrounding air, the applications of this matter to internal surfaces has generally been assigned as a cause of this inflammation ; but air certainly has not the least effect upon those parts, for a stimulus would arise from a wound were it even contained in a vacuum0. Nor does the air get to the parts that form circumscribed abscesses so as to be a cause of their formation, and yet they as rea- dily suppurate in consequence of inflammation as exposed surfaces. Further, in many cases of the emphysema, where the air is diffused over the whole body, (and this air not the purest,) we have no such effect, excepting there is produced an exposure or imperfection of some internal surface for this air to make its escape by, and then this part inflames. Nay, as a stronger proof, and of the same kind with the former, that it is not the admission of air which makes parts fall into inflammation, we find that the cells in the soft parts of birds, and many of the cells and canals of the bones of the same tribe of animals, which communicate with the lungs f, and at till times have more or less air in them, never inflame; but if these cells are exposed in an unnatural way, * But here we may just remark, that the first processes towards suppuration in cases of mortification, where a separation must take place prior to suppuration, are different from the foregoing, because the living surface is to separate from it the dead parts, and therefore another action of the living powers is required, which is what I call ulcera- tion. And by the phenomena on this occasion, it would appear that Nature can carry on two processes at one and the same time; for while the separation is carried on by the absorbents, the arteries are forming themselves for suppuration: so that at the same time the part is going through these two very different species of inflammation, t Vide Observations on certain Parts of the Animal (Economy, Vol. IV. p. 176. a [The admission of fresh air to recent wounds and exposed suppurating surfaces undoubtedly excites pain and eventually an accession of inflammation; which effects were found by I)r. Beddoes to be considerably increased by the use of pure oxygen, and proportionably diminished by the employment of the inert gases, nitrogen, carbonic acid gas, and hydrogen.]OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. 40G by being wounded, &c., then the stimulus of imperfection is given, and the cells inflame, and unite if allowed; but if prevented, they then sup- purate, granulate, &c. The same observation is applicable to a wound made into the cavity of the abdomen of a fowl, for here the wound inflames and unites to the intestines to make it a perfect cavity again; but if this union is not allowed to take place, then more or less of the abdomen will inflame and suppurate. If it was necessary that air should be admitted in order for suppura- tion to take place, we should not very readily account for suppuration taking place in the nose from a cold, as this part is not more under the influence of air at one time than at another; nor is the urethra in a gonorrhoea affected by the air more at that time than at any other. These parts being at all times under the same circumstances with re- spect to air, therefore there must be another cause. The sympathetic fever has been supposed a cause, V’hich will be con- sidered when I treat of the formation of pus. In cases of violence I have endeavoured to give a tolerably distinct idea of the steps leading to suppuration ; but w'e are still at a loss with respect to the immediate cause of those suppurations which appear to arise spontaneously, for in these it is almost impossible to determine whether the inflammation itself be a real disease, viz. an original mor- bid affection, or whether it may not be (as is evidently the case -when from external violence) a salutary process of nature to restore parts whose functions, and perhaps texture, has been destroyed by some pre- vious and almost imperceptible disease or cause. Suppuration being, in cases of violence, a means of restoration, affords a presumption that it is a like instrument of nature in spontaneous cases. If it is the first, viz. a real disease, then two causes that are different in themselves can produce one effect, or one mode of action, for the result of both is the same; but if it is the last, then suppuration must be considered as depending on exactly the same stimulus being given, as in the above- mentioned instance of violence. Suppuration does not arise from the violence of the action of the parts inflamed, for that circumstance simply rather tends to produce mortifi- cation ; and we see that in the gout, which does not suppurate, there is often more violent inflammation than in many others that do. All internal canals likewise suppurate with very slight inflammation, when not in an irritable habit; but if of a very irritable disposition, the action will almost exceed suppuration, and by its becoming milder, suppuration will come on. But if we suppose the cause of inflammation to be a disposition in the407 OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. parts for such actions, without the parts themselves being either diseased or in such a state as to be similar to the destruction or alteration of their texture, this inflammation then may arise from a vast variety of causes with which we are at present totally unacquainted; nay, which we do not perhaps even suspect: and this last opinion, upon a slight view, would seem to be the most probable, because we can frequently put back these spontaneous inflammations, which would not be the case if they came on from the destruction of a part, or anything else, whose stimulus was similar to it, for no such thing can be done with wounds : if they are not soon united by the first intention, they must suppurate. However, this argument is not conclusive; for we can prevent suppura- tion in those arising from accident, by uniting them by the second in- tention, which prevents suppuration by acting as a kind of resolution. Although suppuration is often produced without much visible violence of action in the part, yet when it is a consequence of a healthy inflam- mation, we find in general that the inflammation has been violent. It [the suppurative inflammation] is always more violent than the preceding inflammation; and in such cases it would appear to be little more than an increased action, out of which is produced an entire new mode of action, and which of course destroys the first. It is from this violence that inflammation produces its effects so quickly, for the inflammation which is capable of producing quickly so great a change in the operations of the parts, as suppuration, must be violent, because it is a violence committed upon the natural actions and structure of the parts. This inflammation will also be more or less, according to the violence of the cause producing it, compared with the state of the constitution and parts affected. The inflammation which precedes suppuration is much more violent in those cases where it appears to arise spontaneously, than when it arises from any injury done by violence. A suppuration equal in quan- tity to that from an amputation of the thigh, shall have been preceded by a much greater inflammation than that which is a consequence of the amputation. This inflammation would seem to vary somewhat in its effects, accord- ing to the exertion of that power [viz. of the cause] during its progress ; for in proportion to its rapidity [of action] the cause is certainly more simple, and its termination and effects more speedy and salutary; and this idea agrees perfectly with inflammation in consequence of accidents, for here it runs through its stages more rapidly, and with less inflam- mation ; necessity appears to be the leading cause here. This seems to be the case even in those parts which have a tendencyOF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. 408 to slow and specific diseases, as, for example, the breasts of women, or the testicles of men; for if these parts inflame quickly the effects will be more salutary than if they inflamed slowly. In other words, those parts are capable of being affected by the common suppurative inflam- mation, which in most cases terminates well. Perhaps the specific in- flammation is slow in its progress and operation, and such slowness marks it to be an inflammation of some specific kind. In whatever light we view this fact it at least leads us with more certainty to what the effects of an inflammation will be, and thus often to form a just pro- gnostic. Suppuration takes place much more readily in internal canals than internal cavities. Suppuration takes place more readily upon the surface of canals than in either the cellular or investing membrane. The same cause which would produce a suppuration in the first parts, would only produce the adhesive inflammation in the other; for instance, if a bougie is intro- duced into the urethra for a few hours, it will produce suppuration; while, if a bougie was introduced into either the tunica vaginalis testis, or the abdomen, but for a few hours, it would only give the disposition for adhesions, and even might not go the length of exciting this stage of inflammation in so short a time ; but such surfaces often produce a greater variety of matter than a sore: it is not always pus: and this probably arises from the cause not being so easily got rid of. An ir- ritation in the bladder, from stone, stricture in the urethra, or disease of the bladder itself, gives us a great variety of matter; pus, mucus, slime, are often all found; sometimes only one or two of them. I have some idea that the mucus is easiest of production; but I am certain that for the formation of slime the greatest irritation is required. §. 1. The Symptoms of the Suppurative Inflammation. This inflammation has symptoms common to inflammation in general, but it has these in a greater degree than the inflammation leading to it, and has also some symptoms peculiar to itself; it therefore becomes necessary to be particular in our description of these peculiarities. The sensations arising from a disease generally convey some idea of its nature; the suppurative inflammation gives us as much as possible the idea of simple pain, without having a relation to any other mode of sensation : we cannot annex an epithet to it, but it will vary in some de- gree according to the nature of the parts going into suppuration ; and what was remarked, when treating of the adhesive state, is in some dc-OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. 409 gree applicable here. This pain is increased at the time of the dilating of the arteries, which gives the sensation called throbbing, in which every one can count his own pulse, from paying attention merely to the inflamed part; and perhaps this last symptom is one of the best charac- teristics of this species of inflammation. When the inflammation is moving from the adhesive state to the suppurative, the pain is consider- ably increased, which would seem to be the extent of this operation in the part; but when suppuration has taken place the pain in some de- gree subsides; however, as ulceration begins, it in some degree keeps up the pain, and this is more or less, according to the quickness of ulcera- tion; but the sensation attending ulceration gives more the idea of soreness. The redness that took place in the adhesive stage is now increased, and is of a pale scarlet. This is the true arterial colour, and is to be accounted a constant symptom, as we find it in all internal inflam- mations when at any time exposed, as well as in those that are external. Besides, I observed in the introduction to Inflammation, and when treat- ing of the adhesive state, that the old vessels were dilated, and new ones were formed; these effects, therefore, are here carried still further in the surrounding parts which do not suppurate, and constitute two other causes of this redness being increased, by the vessels becoming still more numerous, and the red part of the blood being pushed more forward into many vessels, where only the serum and coagulating lymph went before. The part which was firm, hard, and swelled while in the first stages, or the adhesive state, now becomes still more swelled by the greater dilatation of the vessels, and greater quantity of extravasated coagulat- ing lymph thrown out in order to secure the adhesions. The cedema- tous swelling surrounding the adhesive gradually spreads into the neigh- bouring parts. In spontaneous suppurations, one, two, three, or more parts of the inflammation lose the power of resolution, and assume exactly the same disposition with those of an exposed surface, or a surface in contact with an extraneous body. If it is in the cellular membrane that this disposition takes place, or in the investing membranes of circumscribed cavities, their vessels now begin to alter their disposition and mode of action, and continue changing till they gradually form themselves to that state which fits them to form pus; so that the effect or discharge is gradually changing from coagulating lymph to pus; hence we com- monly find in abscesses both coagulating lymph and pus, and the earlier they are opened the greater is the proportion of the former. This gave rise to the common idea and expression, “ That the matter is not con-410 OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. cocted”; or “ The abscess is not yet ripe”; the real meaning of which is, the abscess is not yet arrived at the time suppurative state. From hence it must appear that suppuration takes place upon those surfaces without a breach of the solids or a dissolution of the parts, a circumstance not commonly allowed * a; and when got beyond the ad- hesive state they become similar in their suppuration to the inner sur- faces of internal canals. There is a certain period in the inflammation when the suppurative disposition takes place, which is discovered by new symptoms taking place in the constitution, viz. the shivering. Although the sudden effects produced in the constitution would show that this change of disposition is pretty quick, yet its effects in the parts must be far from immediate, for some time is required for the vessels to be formed by it, so as to produce all the consequences intended by na- ture ; and, indeed, we find it is some time before suppuration com- pletely takes place, and that it is sooner or later, according as the in- flamed state is backward in going off; for while the inflammation lasts, the part, as it were, hangs between inflammation and suppuration. The effect of inflammation appears to be the producing of the suppu- rative disposition, or that state of a part which disposes it to form pus; in doing this the inflammation seems first to be carried to such a height as to destroy that state of the parts on which itself depends, the con- sequence of which is, that they lose the inflammatory disposition, and come into that which fits them for forming pus. It seems to be a fixed and most useful law in the animal ceconomy, that in spontaneous inflammation, when it has either destroyed the na- tural functions of parts, so much as to prevent their returning by a re- trograde motion, as it were, to the state from whence they set out, or • The knowledge of (his fact in some of the larger cavities is not quite new, for I remember, about the year 1749 or 1750, that a young subject came under our inspec- tion, and on opening the thorax it was found on the left side to contain a considerable quantity of pus. Upon examining the pleura and surface of the lungs, they were found to be perfectly entire. This was taken notice of by Dr. Hunter as a new fact, that sup- puration could take place without a breach of surface, and he sent to Mr. Samuel Sharp to see it. It was also new to him, and he published it in his Critical Inquiry. Since that period it has been often observed in the peritoneal inflammation. • [According to Dr. Thomson (Lectures on Inflammation, p. 316,) this doctrine was first distinctly suggested by Dr. Simpson of St. Andrew’s, in his Dissertaliones de Re Medicd, published in the year 1722. De Ilaen, in 1756, adopted the same view, and l)r.’Morgan more fully in 1763. Stilt, however, the prevailing opinion may have been different, and Mr. Hunter must certainly be supposed to have known what that was.]OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. 411 where the first cause wa3 a destruction of the natural functions, as an exposure of internal surfaces, that they form a disposition to the second method of cure. That the disposition for suppuration is very different from the actual state of inflammation, though produced by it, is proved by a variety of observations, for no perfect suppuration takes place till the inflammation is gone off; and as the inflammation ceases the dis- position to suppuration gradually comes on. If, too, by any peculiarity in the constitution, or inflammation by which it is continued, or if by any accident an inflammation is brought on a healthy sore, the discharge and other appearances become the same as they were when the part from whence they arose was first in an inflamed state, very different from those observed when it was arrived at the state of a kind of sup- puration. §.2. Of the Treatment necessary in Inflammation when Sup- puration must take place. In cases of inflammation arising from accident, but so circumstanced that we know suppuration cannot be prevented, the practice will be to moderate the inflammation if necessary, but not with a view to prevent suppuration; for if the powers are very great, and the violence committed very considerable, the inflammation will probably be very violent; and if it should have equal effects on the constitution, which will be in pro- portion to the quantity of surface inflamed, then certain constitutional means of relief will be necessary, such as bleeding, purging, regimen, and perhaps producing sickness; because, while that inflammation, continues to have effects upon the constitution, the suppuration which takes place will not be so kindly as it would otherwise be; but if the constitution is of the irritable kind, which will be generally known by the inflammation, the same practice as mentioned above is necessary; in short, whatever is to be the consequence, whether resolution or sup- puration, the irritability and the too great action of the vessels, whether arising from too great powers, or too great action with small powers, are to be corrected or removed, as they in all cases counteract salutary operations. In cases where the constitution has sympathized much with the in- flamed part, such medicines as produce a slight perspiration much re- lieve the patient, such as antimonials, Dover’s powder, saline draughts, spirits of mindererus, etc., because they endeavour to keep up a universal harmony, by putting the skin in good humour (which quiets every sym- pathizing part), and by counteracting the effects of the irritability.412 OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. Opium often lessens actions, although it seldom alters them, when only given as an opiate, and may be of a temporary service : however, this ia not always a consequence of opium, as there are constitutions where it increases irritation, and of course diseased action. Fresh wounds, considered simply as wounds, are all of the same na- ture, and require one uniform treatment, the intention being to put them into that situation in which they can suppurate with most ease to them- selves ; and the first dressings commonly remain till suppuration comes on, unless some peculiarity from the situation of parts, or other collate- ral circumstances, should make it necessary to remove the dressings or vary the treatment. The difference between one wound and another, with respect to the nature of the part wounded, will vary very much; some will have small vessels wounded that cannot be conveniently got at, in order to tie them up, yet should be stopt from bleeding, which can be done by the mode of dressing, and therefore require dressing suitable to this circumstance alone. Wounds opening into cavities, where peculiarities of the contained parts are joined with the injury done to them by the accident, will re- quire a suitable mode of dressing; the influence, too, that a simple wound in the containing parts may have upon those in the cavity, as a wound into the belly, thorax, joints, skull, etc., will oblige the surgeon to vary the mode of dressing from that of a simple wound; w hile many wounds will require being kept open for fear of uniting again, in order to answer some future purpose, as the wound made into the tunica vaginalis testis, for the radical cure of the hydrocele; others may require attention being paid to them before suppuration comes on, and therefore should be so dressed as to admit of being soon and easily removed, to examine the parts occasionally as the symptoms arise. 1 his ought to be the case in wounds of the head, attended or not attended with fracture of the skull. But whatever mode of application may be thought necessary to answer the various attending circumstances, yet as they aie all wounds which are to come to suppuration, one general method is to be followed re- specting them all, as far as those peculiarities will allow. The application which has been made to wrounds for some years past in this country has been in general dry lint. What brought this appli- cation into common practice most probably was, its assisting to stop the hemorrhage; and as most wounds are attended with bleeding, it became universal; but as it became universal, the first intention was lost sight of, and it became simply a first dressing. I need hardly remark here, that all wounds that arc to suppurate arc first attended with inflammation, and therefore arc so far similar toOF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. 413 spontaneous inflammations which are to suppurate. If this observation is just, how contradictory must this mode of treatment be to common practice, when spontaneous inflammation has already taken place ; for let me ask, where is the difference between an inflammation with a wound, and one without? And also, what should be the difference in the application to a part that is to inflame (while that application is made to the part), and one applied to an inflammation which has already taken place ? The answer 1 should make to such a question is, there is no difference. Wounds that are to suppurate, I have already observed, are first to go through the adhesive and suppurative inflammation. These inflam- mations in a wound are exactly similar to those spontaneous inflamma- tions which suppurate and form an abscess, or those inflammations which ulcerate on the surface, and form a sore. The applications to these which are now in practice, I have formerly observed, are poultices and fomentations; these, however, appear to be applied without much critical exactness or discrimination, for they are applied before suppuration has taken place, and where it is not intended it should take place; they are applied to inflammations where it is wished they should suppurate, and applied after suppuration has taken place. Now, with respect to suppuration itself, abstracted from all other con- siderations, the indication cannot be the same in all of those states ; but if poultices and fomentations are found to be of real sendee in those two stages of the disease, then there must be something common to both, for which they are of service, abstracted from simple suppuration. I also formerly observed, that poultices were of sendee when the inflam- mation had attacked the skin, either of itself, or when an abscess had approached so near that the skin had become inflamed, and that this service consisted in keeping the skin soft and moist. This appears to me to be the use of a poultice in an inflammation, either before suppu- ration or after, as inflammation still exists, till it is opened ; for inflam- mation is necessary in an abscess while it is making its approaches to the skin, which I have called the ulcerative; and then, and only then, it begins to subside ; it is therefore still proper, inasmuch as it is of ser- vice to inflammation: so far, therefore, their practice is right and con- sistent, as the first reason exists through the whole; but when applied to inflamed parts, which are meant not to suppurate, their reasoning or principles upon which they applied it must fail them, although the application is still very proper. If my first proposition is just, viz. that wounds which are allowed to suppurate are similar to inflammations that are idso to suppurate, then let us see how far the two practices agree with this proposition. Lint,414 OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. I have observed, is applied to a fresh wound, which is to inflame ; and the same lint is continued through the whole of the inflammation till suppuration comes on, because it cannot be removed. Lint, considered simply as an application to fresh wounds which are to inflame, is a very bad one, for it more or less adheres to the surface of the wound, by means of the extravasated blood ; hence it becomes difficult of removal, and often shall remain in sores for months, being interwoven with the granulations, especially when applied to the surface of circumscribed cavities, such as the tunica vaginalis testis, after the operation for the hydrocele; however, this is not always the greatest inconvenience ; the circumstance of its being loaded or soaked with blood, subjects it to be- come extremely hard when it dries, which it always does before the se- paration takes place, which separation is only effected by the suppura- tion. In this way it becomes the worst dressing possible for wounds. As poultices are allowed by most to be the best application to an in- flamed part, not attended by, or a consequence of, a wound, but consi- dering it simply as an inflammation, I do conceive that the same appli- cation is the best for every inflammation, let it be from whatever cause; for the idea I have of the best dressing to a wound, simply as a wound, which is to inflame, is something that keeps soft and moist, and has no continuity of parts, so that it is easily separated. The only application of this kind is a poultice, which, from these qualities, is the very best application to a fresh wound. It keeps it soft and moist, and is at all times easily removed, either in part or the whole. The same medical advantage is gained here, as when it is applied to an inflamed part; but although it had not these advantages, yet the circumstance of being easily removed is much in its favour, especially when compared to dry lint. But a poultice, from other circumstances, cannot at all times and in all places be conveniently applied. To preserve the above properties, it is necessary there should be a mass, much too large for many purposes; but when they can be used with tolerable convenience, they are the best applications. When they cannot be applied with ease, I should still object to dry lint, and would therefore recommend the lint to be covered with some oily substance, so that the blood shall not entangle itself with the lint, but may lie soft, and come easily off. This mode of dressing should be continued for several days, or at least till fair suppuration comes on, and when that has taken place, then dry lint may be with great propriety used, except the sore is of some specific kind, which is seldom the case in fresh wounds; for accidental wounds seldom happen to specific diseases; and a wound in consequence of an operation should not be specific, because the specific affection (ifOF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. 415 there is any) should have been removed by the operation; and should therefore be a wound in the sound part, as after an amputation of a scrofulous joint, or the extirpation of a cancerous breast. Or if they take on some specific disposition afterwards, then they must be dressed accordingly, as will be explained hereafter. Poultices are commonly made too thin, by which means the least pressure, or their own gravity, removes them from the wound; they should be thick enough to support a certain form when applied. They are generally made of stale bread and milk; this composition, in general, makes a too brittle application; it breaks easily into different portions from the least motion, and often leaves some part of the wound un- covered, which is frustrating the first intention. The poultice which makes the best application, and continues most nearly the same between each dressing, is that formed of the meal of linseed; it is made at once*, and when applied it keeps always in one mass. Fomentations are ge- nerally applied at this stage of the wound, and they generally give ease at the time of application, which has (joined with custom) been always a sufficient inducement to continue them. As soon as suppuration is well established, the part may then be dressed according to the appear- ances of the sore itself. The kind of wound to which the above application is best adapted, is a wound made in a sound part which we intend shall heal by granulation. The same application is equally proper where parts are deprived of life, and consequently will slough. It is therefore the very best dressing for a gunshot wound, and probably for most lacerated wounds. For lint applied to a part that is to throw off a slough will often be retained till that slough is separated, which will be for eight, ten, or more days. In the treatment of wounds that are to suppurate, it is in one view of the subject right to allow the parts to take their natural and sponta- neous bent. From the natural elasticity of the skin, and the contrac- tion of muscles, the parts wounded are generally exposed, and from the consequent inflammation they generally become more so. This is com- monly more the case in wounds produced by accident; for [in opera- tions,] as a small wound and much old skin are always desirable, sur- geons very wisely are anxious to wish for both. In many operations they are desirous of preserving the skin, viz. where they are removing parts, as a limb, dissecting out tumours, or opening an abscess; all of which is extremely proper, and they continue to practice upon this principle immediately upon the receiving the wound, and in performing Take boiling water q. s. and stir in the linseed till it becomes of a sufficient thick- ness, and then add a small quantity of some sweet oil.41G OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. any of the above-mentioned operations ; for the skin, after amputation, is drawn down and bound down, and the wounds are pressed together by bandages. In one point of view this is beginning too early; it is beginning it when Nature has the very opposite principle in view : in- flammation the parts must submit to, and as inflammation by its effects will generally have a tendency to make them recede more, in this light it is proper not to check the effects of inflammation; therefore let them take their own way till inflammation subsides and granulations are formed, which granulations, I have already observed, by their power of contraction, will do what we wanted to have done ; and if, from some of the first circumstances not being properly attended to, the contrac- tion of the granulations is not sufficient, then is the time to assist, and not before. However, if we take up this in another point of view, we shall see a considerable utility arising from bringing the skin as much as possible over the wound, and keeping it there; for in the time of in- flammation the parts will adhere or unite in this situation, by which means the sore will be less than it otherwise would; and I conceive that this practice, when begun, should be for some time continued, for fear the adhesions may not be sufficient to stand their ground till the gra- nulations can assist. It often happens in many wounds, both from accident and operations, that part of the wound may with great propriety be healed by the first intention; such as in many accidents on the head, when a part of the scalp has been torn off, on the face, &c., as also after many operations, especially where the skin is loose, as in the scrotum; or where the skin has been attended to in the time of the operation, as in some methods of amputation, extirpation of breasts, &c., a part of the saved skin, &c. may be made to unite to the parts underneath by the first intention, and therefore only part of the wound be allowed to suppurate. In all such cases a proper contracting or sustaining bandage may be applied with great advantage; even stitches may be used with great propriety, as was recommended in the healing of wounds by the first intention. §.3. The Treatment of the Inflammation when Suppuration has taken place. In spontaneous inflammations, whether from a constitutional or local affection, when suppuration has taken place, it is most probable that another mode of practice must be followed than that which was pursued to prevent it; but even now, if a stop could be put to the further forma- tion of matter, after it has begun, it would in many cases be very proper,OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. 417 and still prevent a great deal of mischief. Suppuration does certainly sometimes stop, after having begun, which shows that there is a prin- ciple in the .animal ceconomy0 by which the machine is capable of pro- ducing this effect*. I have seen buboes cured by vomits, after suppuration has been con- siderably advanced, and it is a very common termination of scrofulous abscesses; but in scrofulous abscesses we very seldom find inflamma- tion. This process appears to be a leading circumstance in ulceration, which is the very reverse of unionb : even in superficial sores, which are the most likely to continue suppuration if excited, we find by allowing them to scab, when they will admit of it, that the act which admits of scabbing is the reverse of suppuration, and it ceases; however, it is a process which the animal ceconomy does not readily accept of, and our powers in producing this effect are but very small. If these powers could be increased by any means it would be a salutary discovery, be- * T have formerly observed, that the inflammation often goes off without producing suppuration; and I have also mentioned instances of suppuration going off without the parts having produced granulations, and then the parts fall back into the adhesive state, and the matter being absorbed, they are left in nearly the same state as before the in- flammation came on i as a presumptive proof of this, in many of the large cavities which have been allowed to inflame and suppurate (by having been opened) we find them often doing well, without ever forming granulations, and that suppuration generally goes off; and I do not believe that they ever fall back into the adhesive state, so as to unite the parts, but the parts resume their original and natural state or disposition, and no adhesions are formed. This appears sometimes to happen in cases of the empyema after the operation has been performed0. I have seen cases where wounds had been made into the cavity of the thorax, where there was every reason to suppose the whole cavity was in a state of suppuration, and yet those patients got well. I can hardly sup- pose that in these cases the parts had granulated and united in the cure, as the cellular membrane does, because I have seen many similar cases where the patients have died and no granulations have been found; and I have seen cases of the hydrocele attempted to be cured radically by the caustic, in which, when the slough came out, suppuration came on, but the orifice healing too soon, suppuration has ceased, and the cure was thought to be completed ; but a return of the disease has led to another attempt, and, by laying open the whole sac, it has been found that the tunica vaginalis was perfectly entire: in such the fluids were a mothery serum. I have seen abscesses go back in the same manner; but I believe that this process is more common to scrofulous suppura- tions than any other, and I believe to the erysipelatous. I have seen joints heal after having suppurated and been opened, without having produced granulations, leaving a kind of joint, even when the cartilages have exfoliated from the ends of the bon°es, which was known by the grating of the two ends of the bones on one another. * [“ Animal ceconomy of diseases” in the text.] [ The meaning of the author I apprehend to be, that even in ulceration, which is an act directly opposed to reunion, the cessation or diminution of discharge is a lead- ing circumstance towards the cure.] e [See Vol. I., p. 443, note.] VOL. III. 2 EOF TIIE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. 418 cause suppuration itself in many cases proves fatal: for instance, suppu- ration of the brain and its membranes, of the thorax and its contents, as well as of the abdomen and its contents, in short, suppuration of any of the vital parts, often kills of itself, simply from the matter being pro- duced. But this practice will by most be forbidden in many cases of sup- puration, for it is supposed this very suppuration is a deposit of matter or humours already formed in the constitution ; but it is to be hoped that time and experience will get rid of such prejudices. When suppuration cannot be stopped or resolved, then in most cases it is to be hurried on, which generally is the first step taken by surgeons. How far suppuration can be increased by medicine or applications I do not know; but attempts are generally made, and thence we have suppurating cataplasms, plasters, &c. recommended to us, which are composed of the warmer gums, seeds, &c., but I doubt very much if they have considerable effect in this way: for if the same applications were made to a sore they would hardly increase the discharge of that sore, but probably rather decrease it. However, in many cases, where the parts are indolent and hardly admit of true inflammation, in consequence of which a perfect suppuration cannot take place, by stimulating the skin a more salutary inflammation may be produced, and of course a quicker suppuration ; but in the true suppuration, where inflammation has pre- ceded it, I believe it is hardly necessary to do anything with respect to suppuration itself: however, from experience, I believe these applica- tions have been found to bring the matter faster to the skin, even in the most rapid suppurations, which was supposed to be an increased formation of matter; but it can only be in those cases where the inner surface of the abscess is within the influence of the skin. This effect arises from another cause or mode of action being produced than that of quickening suppuration, which is the hastening on of ulceration. 1 have mentioned that ulceration was an effect of, or at least attended by, inflammation ; and therefore whatever increases that inflammation will also increase the ulceration, which will bring the matter sooner to the skin, without an increased formation of matter. Poultices of bread and milk are commonly used to inflamed parts when suppuration is known to have taken place. These applications can have no effect upon suppuration, excepting by lessening inflammation, or rather making the skin easy under them, for we observed that true sup- puration did not begin till inflammation was abated; but the. inflamma- tion must have reached the skin before poultices can have much effect, for they can only affect that part. It may be thought necessary that the ease of the patient should be41.9 OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. considered, and we find that fomentations find poultices often produce that effect; we find too, that by keeping the cuticle moist and warm the sensitive operations of the nerves of the parts are soothed or lulled to rest; while, on the contrary, if the inflamed skin is allowed to dry, the inflammation is increased; and as probably suppuration is not checked by such treatment, it ought to be put into practice : as warmth excites action, it is probable the warmer the fomentation so much the better; and in many cases the action is increased so that they can hardly bear it. §•4. Collections of Matter without Inflammation. I have hitherto been describing true suppuration, which I have said, I believe is a consequence only of inflammation,” a process generally allowed. Also in treating on the cause of suppuration, viz. inflamma- tion, I hinted that there were often swellings, or thickening of parts, with- out the visible or common symptoms of inflammation, viz. without pain, change of colour, &c.; and 1 also hinted, in treating of suppuration, that there were collections of matter, somewhat similar to suppuration, which did not arise in consequence of the common inflammation : these I shall now consider. 1 conceive all such collections of matter to be of a scro- fulous nature : they are most common in the young subject, and seldom found in the full-grown or old : they are commonly called matter or pus, and therefore I choose to contrast true suppuration with them. Although I have termed this suppuration, yet it has none of its true characters, any more than the swellings, which are the forerunners of it, have the true characters of inflammation ; and as I did not call them inflammatory, strictly speaking I should not call this suppuration ; but I have no other term expressive of it. Many indolent tumours, slow swellings in the joints, swellings of the lymphatic glands, tubercles in the lungs, and swellings in many parts of the body, are diseased thickenings, without visible inflammation; and the contents of some kinds of encysted tumours; the matter of many scrofulous suppurations, as in the lymphatic glands ; the suppuration of many joints, viz. those scrofulous suppurations in the joints of the foot and hand; m the knee, called white swellings; the joint of the thigh, commonly called lap-cases; the loins, called lumbar abscesses ; the dis- charge of the above-mentioned tubercles in the lungs, as well as in many other parts of the body, are all instances of matter being formed without any previous visible inflammation, and are therefore in this one respect all lery similar to one another. They come on insensibly, the first sym- ptom being commonly the swellings, in consequence of the thickening*420 OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. which is not the case with inflammation, for there the sensation is the first symptom. These formations of matter, although they (lo approach the skin, yet do not do it in the same manner as collections of pus. They do not produce readily either the elongating or the ulcerative process, and as the matter was not preceded by the adhesive inflammation, these col- lections are more easily moved from their original seat into some other part by any slight pressure, such as the weight of their own matter; from which I have called them abscesses in a part, in opposition to ab- scesses of a part: when the matter does approach the skin, it is com- monly by merely a distension of the part, coming by a broad surface, not attended with any marks of pointing. Their surrounding parts or boundaries are soft, not being attended with thickening ; more especially those in a part. Such collections of matter are always larger than they would have been, if they had been either a consequence of inflammation or attended by it: this is owing to their indolence, allowing of great distention be- yond the extent of the first disease, and even of their moving into other parts ; whereas an abscess in consequence of inflammation is confined to the extent of inflammation that takes on suppuration, and its rapid pro- gress towards the skin prevents distention, and of course extension of the disease. All those formations of matter not preceded by inflammation, nor a consequence of it, are I believe similar to each other, having in this re- spect one common principle, very different from inflammation. The cancer, although it produces a secretion, yet does not produce pus till exposed ; it is therefore one of those diseases, like the scrofula, which does not suppurate till inflammation comes on, and even seldom then; for true suppuration arises from inflammation, terminating in a disposi- tion to heal, which is not the case with cancer. In the scrofulous sup- puration there is often a like reluctance to heal. The kind of matter is another distinguishing mark between that pro- duced in consequence of inflammation and what is formed without it, the last being generally composed" of a curdly substance mixed with a flaky matter. The curdly substance is, we may suppose, the coagulating lymph deprived of its serum*, and the other or flaky is probably the same, only in smaller parts ; it looks like the precipitate of animal matter from an acid or an alkali. So far these productions of matter in their remote and immediate * I may observe here that the coagulating lymph of long standing is not similar to the recent. This is similar to blootl in general, for we find that the blood in aneurisms, which was first coagulated, is very different from that which has only coagulated lately.421 OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. causes are not in the least similar to that arising from common in- flammation ; nor is the effect, viz. the matter, similar; and to show still further that suppuration is always preceded by inflammation, the very surfaces which form the above matter immediately produce true matter when the inflammation comes on, which it always does whenever opened; which I shall now consider. Since they are not similar in their causes or modes of production, let us next examine how far they are similar in their first steps towards a cure. All parts which form matter of any kind, viz. whether in consequence of inflammation or otherwise, must go through similar processes to pro- duce the ultimate effect or cure. The first step in either is the evacu- ation of this matter, for till this is effected, Nature cannot pursue the proper means towards a cure ; and if opened, the second step is granu- lation, and the third cicatrization. To accomplish the evacuation of the matter there are two modes : one is the absorption of the matter, which is very common in the scrofula, or those productions of matter not pre- ceded by inflammation : this produces no alteration in the part, except that it gradually creeps into a sound state, the parts uniting again that had been separated by the accumulation of the matter ; it produces also no alteration in the constitution : absorption, however, seldom takes place in suppuration which is the consequence of inflammation. The other mode of discharging this matter is either by opening the abscess, in order to allow it to pass out, or by allowing ulceration to take place from the inside to produce its escape; and this process, in the present case, having peculiarities different from those arising from inflammation, it is necessary they should be understood. Ulceration in consequence of suppuration arising from inflammation is very rapid, especially if the suppuration is so likewise; but ulceration in consequence of matter being formed which is not the effect of inflammation is extremely slow: it will remain months, even years, before the parts have completely given way; they commonly come to the skin by a broad surface, and not pointing like a circumscribed abscess in consequence of influmma- t'on; so fur are these two different0. * [That Mr. Hunter should have overlooked the analogies which connect the class of facts, referred to in this section, with ordinary suppuration, and insisted only on their dissimilarities, might justly excite our surprise, if we did not reflect that his argument ia ultimately based on the assumption that inflammation is a salutary process, and not a diseased action; a doctrine which it is evident could derive no support from the phenomena of chronic abscesses. In this mode of argumentation, however, the same fallacy is involved as in the author’s speculations on the venereal disease, in which, having laid down the proposition that mercury is essential to its cure, he afterwards argues on this fact, adopting it as the only unequivocal test of the existence of the dis-422 OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. §.5. Of the effects such Formations of Matter have on the Constitution. Whatever may he the extent of such collections of matter, they seldom if ever affect the constitution, unless they are seated in a vital part, or so connected with it as to disturb its functions. This is an effect of indolence in any disease. A young person shall have a lumbar abscess, for instance, for years, without a single constitutional symptom. It shall appear to be making its way through a number of parts, such as the loins behind, the buttocks, the lower part of the abdomen before, and through the upper part of the thigh; and in each part shall show large collections of matter. All these shall even attend the same person, and yet not any bad symptoms nor any shiverings shall accompany this suppuration*. In some there is not even the least degree of lameness, but this is often the first symptom of the disease in the lumbar abscess. Let us next consider and compare the consequences attending these two collections of matter when opened. When an abscess, in consequence of inflammation, is opened, it immediately proceeds towards a cure, and * I have heard surgeons ask such patients if they had rigors, even alluding to the time of increase ; this was applying the idea of the symptom of one disease to another, and also the first stage of a disease to the second. ease ; just as in the present case, having determined that “ true suppuration arises from inflammation, terminating in a disposition to heal,” the cases which do not correspond with this condition are considered as non-infiammatory. Undoubtedly the symptoms which mark the presence of inflammation in many chronic suppurations are often ob- scurely developed, but so are those which characterize the adhesive inflammation which precedes the approach of aneurisms and foreign bodies to the surface, or the formation of internal cysts, or the ulceration of the bones of the spine. Such indolent swellings, however, and chronic collections of matter, as are referred to by the author, almost always exhibit indications of increased heat, vascularity, and sensibility when near the surface of the body, while the causes to which they may in most cases be referred, tire products in which they commonly result, and the adhesions which invariably accompany their progress, so closely resemble those belonging to genuine inflammation that it is impossible to distinguish them. Whatever differences therefore may exist must be re- garded as differences of degree. Still, however, the question cannot be considered as decided whether suppuration may not take place independently of inflammation; for large collections of matter are sometimes found to occur simultaneously in various parts of the body without any well-defined marks of inflammation before or after death, or even the existence of mischief having been suspected until it has been fully revealed by dissection. Such purulent collections are most commonly found to occur in certain forms of constitutional irritation, of which that attending phlebitis may be regarded as the type, and often present the appearance of purulent metastases. I should conceive, however, that even these cases depend on inflammation, as it often happens that coagu- ktble lymph, either alone or in conjunction with pus, is poured out under such circum- stances.].OF TIIR SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. 453 perhaps it may have gone some steps towards a cure before opening; the inflammation still lessens, the suppuration becomes more perfect, gra- nulations begin to form, and all of these steps naturally take placo, because inflammation had been the cause; but when a collection of matter not preceded by inflammation is opened, a very different process is first to take place, viz. inflammation is now excited over the whole cavity of the abscess, which afterwards produces a perfect matter, simi- lar to that produced in consequence of inflammation, when it is the original disease, and which now produces its constitutional affection, if it is such as to have connexion with the constitution ; but this will de- pend on the size of the abscess, the situation and the nature of the parts, &c. However, it sometimes happens that they inflame before they are opened ; but this is in consequence of the matter distending the cavity, and thereby acting as an extraneous body. I have seen white swellings in the knee inflame before they were opened, then ulceration take place, and the pus brought soon to the skin, even after it had been confined for months, without producing the least tendency to ulceration, because there had been none to inflammation ; but the confinement of the matter becomes a cause of the inflammation, and then ulceration takes place. The inflammation and new suppuration taking place in consequence of opening into these abscesses is exactly similar to those arising in con- sequence of wounds or openings made into natural cavities; it was still, therefore, necessary that they should go through all the common steps towards restoration; but unfortunately such inflammations have begun at the wrong end; they have also set down upon a specific dis- ease, which they can seldom alter to their own nature. The inflamma- tion is in such cases extended over a much larger surface than the ori- ginal ; which is not the case in abscess in consequence of inflammation, for there the inflammation was the cause and confined to the point. In some cases, as in lumbar abscess, the extent of surface to inflame is immense in comparison to the extent of the original disease ; and of course, when such abscesses inflame, the symptoms in the constitution are in the same proportion. How different is this from the opening of the abscess in consequence of inflammation ! There we have no inflammation following, except what arises in consequence of the wound made in the solids in the operation of opening; but when it is allowed to open of itself there is no consequent inflammation, but suppuration goes on. But it would appear that when those collections of matter are allowed to open of themselves, that the succeeding inflammation does not so readily take place as when opened by art. I have seen large lumbar abscesses open of themselves on the lower part of the loins, which have discharged a large quantityOF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. 424 of matter, then closed up, then broke out anew, and so on for months, without giving any other disturbance1*; but when opened, so as to give a free discharge to the matter, inflammation has immediately succeeded, fever has come on, and, from the situation of the parts inflamed, as well as their extent, death in a very days after has been the consequence: it therefore often becomes a question whether we should enlarge the first opening or not. We may observe in general that in cases of this kind, where they are to terminate ill, that is, where they cannot be cured, and are such as to affect the constitution, the consequent inflammation upon opening them, which produces the sympathetic fever, has that fever commonly terminating in the hectic, or continued into the hectic, before any recess takes place, so that the one is continued into the other without any intermission ; however, this is not always the case, and those variations will depend on the state of the sore, the state of the constitution, &c. §. G. The Effects of the Suppurative Inflammation on the Constitution. It is to be observed, that every local complaint of any consequence, or which has considerable and quick action within itself, although not of considerable magnitude, affects more or less the constitution, and gives rise to what has been commonly called the symptomatic fever. These symptoms are the sympathies of the constitution with a local dis- ease or injury, and will vary according to a vast variety of circumstances. They will vary according to the nature of the constitution, which admits of great differences, and which will include different ages; they will vary according to the nature of the part in a state of disease, which also admits of great differences; they will vary according to the quantity of mischief done, as well as the manner of its being done ; that is, whether so as to call forth immediate inflammation, as a Avound; or not so im- mediate, as from having only killed a part: they will vary according to the situation of similar parts in the body; and they Avill A’ary according to the stage of the disease. This last variation may be divided into two * [It was in imitation of this method of Nature that the late Mr. Abernethy suggested the propriety of opening large abscesses by a small valvular aperture, discharging part of the contents, and then healing up the opening. (See his Works, vol. ii.) There is reason to believe that the inflammation which frequently succeeds the dis- charge of lurge abscesses in the common way is due to the admission of air, which act- ing on the effused blood, or perhaps on the matter itself, occasions decomposition. In this manner the sac is directly irritated, and the constitution greatly disturbed by the absorption of putrid matter.]OF TIIE SUPPURATI VK INFLAMMATION. 425 kinds, the one which begins slowly and increases progressively, as in the venereal disease, and the sympathetic affections of course come on gradually; the other, where it begins at once with violence, and after- wards diminishes. The first of this last division we have nothing to do with at present; it is, therefore, the kind of constitution, the kind of parts, the diseases which commence with so much violence as to affect the constitution at once, with the constitutional effects arising from the local disease being incurable, that form our present subject. I shall observe here, that every disease, whether local or constitu- tional, that has the power of termination in itself, commonly has its re- gular progress and stated times of action ; in some, however, there are no changes in the modes of action, the disease coming on and dying away; but in others there are; and in those where changes take place there are stated periods for those changes, so as to render them regular. As regularity in the modes of action in disease is conducive to the ter- mination of that disease, it is a thing very much to be desired, for these changes are a cessation of the action, either temporary or permanent. As the constitution sympathizes with a local irritation, and as that sympathy is according to the constitution, to the violence of the irrita- tion, and to the nature of the parts irritated ; and as the symptoms of that sympathy must be similar to constitutional complaints that are commonly taking place; if the local complaint should not be known, then they will be taken for constitutional complaints wholly, and treated as such: but often, from their continuance, some local affection is sus- pected : local complaints, however, are commonly preceded or attended with some local symptom, either directly or indirectly, or with some collateral symptom or symptoms, so as to direct us to the cause. Local complaints attended with inflammations, the objects of surgery, are often attended with, or rather consequent upon, violence of some kind, such as the loss of a part, either fluid or solid, which the constitution feels, and which loss or violence adds to the constitutional affection. This will be according to the quantity of injury or loss of living matter, whether blood or some solid, the time in the operation, the state of the parts operated upon, and the nature of the part removed. I have seen a man die almost immediately upon the loss of a testicle : I have seen convulsions immediately attend the operation for the hydrocele, so that I have almost despaired of recovery: I have seen a most violent sym- pathetic fever, delirium, and death follow, in consequence of dividing parts in the leg, and searching after a bleeding artery. The loss of a limb above the knee is more than many can bear: the cutting for the stone, where it breaks, and may be an hour in extracting, is also more than many can bear; the parts being in such a diseased state as not to426 OF TI1E SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. lx: relieved, have continued the symptoms of the disease: and the loss of a testicle, although of so small a size, when compared with many other parts which we can lose with impunity, yet from its vital connexion is more serious. We cannot bear to lose much brain. The loss of too much blood is often an attendant on, or a consequence of operations, but sometimes takes place without much violence. This produces very considerable constitutional effects; bringing on weakness, and many complaints, depending, as it were, upon debility, which are whatare commonly called nervous. I have seen a locked-jaw come on in consequence of the loss of a considerable quantity of blood, the cause of the loss being lriit trifling, and giving no symptoms whatever. The nature of the cause of inflammation produces, I believe, but little variation in the constitution, for of whatever kind it is, the symptoms in the constitution will be in all cases nearly the same, proportioned only to the violence and rapidity of its progress; and as this [viz. the suppurative] inflammation is pretty violent, more especially if it pro- duces healthy suppuration, it generally produces more violent effects upon the constitution than any other; this, however, will be in some degree according to the susceptibility of the constitution for inflamma- tion ; and if any difference takes place in the inflammation in one con- stitution from that of another, it will arise from the nature of the con- stitution, and the nature of parts and their situation, and not from the nature of the cause. The sympathy of the constitution with a local disease is what I have called universal sympathy, and is, perhaps, the most simple act of a constitution; it is the sympathy with a simple violence, as a cold, etc., but still it will vary in different constitutions, because all constitutions will not act alike under the influence of a local disease, although it will vary according to the stages of inflammation, according to the natural disposition of the parts inflamed, and according to the situation of those parts in the body ; yet it may be the most simple act of that constitution at the time, for although it would appear at the time to be an increase of the disease by its becoming universal, yet as it is a natural conse- quence it is a much better sign of health than if no fever had occurred in consequence of considerable injuries, for if there was no inflamma- tion, there would probably be little or no fever. Nature requires to feel the injury; for where, after a considerable operation, there is rather a weak quiet pulse, often with a nervous oppression, with a seeming dif- ficulty of breathing and a loathing of food, the patient is in a dangerous way. Fever shows powers of resistance; the other symptoms show weakness and sinking under the injury. This is like the effects of the cold bath; yet we sec it calling forth, or rousing up to action, some427 OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. peculiarity in the constitution, or a part, which may be continued after the sympathetic action is lost, and which may again reflect back upon the part its reluctance to heal. This may be exemplified by the affec- tions of scrofula, and even cancer, arising in consequence of injury Rigors are commonly the first symptom of a constitutional affection ; but a rigor is productive of other effects or symptoms, as it were natu- rally arising out of the rigor; and tliese are according to the nature of the constitution. In a strong constitution a hot period succeeds, as if the constitution was roused to action to resist debility, which terminates the rigor; and this hot fit terminates in perspiration, which is the com- plete action of the disease, restoring tranquillity, which is the cure, and the best termination that can happen where a rigor takes place, for it shows that the constitution has the power of terminating the effects of the cause. I believe, however, that in most cases it shows a degree of weakness, especially if easily excited, or a peculiarity of constitution. But as the cause is still continuing in cases of rigor arising from local irritation, these rigors may recur; and if they recur, it shows a consti- tution ready to be affected; however, if they do recur at stated periods, it still shows the constitution to be able to resist the effects of the dis- ease. Further, if the constitution is weak a rigor comes on, and no hot fit succeeds, but it runs directly into the sweat, which will probably be cold and clammy. If it is a constitution of another kind the hot fit will continue, having only a kind of abatement; but no sweat or perfect in- termission will take place, and therefore the whole action has not taken place. Rigors from local irritation, attended with the full action, and at re- * I believe that local specific irritations do not produce much variety in the consti- tution ; for I am persuaded that specific local irritations are not capable of altering that constitution, similar to the plague and other contagious diseases. I believe that morbid poisons do not act by any peculiar inode of action in the part, so as to afTect the consti- tution in any peculiar way, if we except such as are capable of continuing so long as to weaken that constitution, as, for instance, the lues, when of long standing; but even this will be similar to every other lasting disease, for at first it certainly does not affect the constitution so as to alter the disposition of a wound made upon another part. 1 am not so certain respecting natural poisons. The Hennas, poisoned arrow, [ Uj,as tieutc,] etc. would seem to produce a peculiar constitutional affection from a local cause, for we can hardly suppose absorption to have taken place in so short a time*. [“ ibis may be exemplified by affection or injury, scrofula, even cancer, &c.”— Original text.] b [This question, which has been made the subject of a great deal of interesting dis- cussion and experiment of late years, must still be considered as undecided, although upon the whole, the balance still inclines to the doctrine as here laid down by the au- thor. The late ingenious researches by Mr. Morgan and Dr. Addison on this subject strongly confirm this view.] JOF T1IE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. 428 gular stated times, have all the characters of an intermittent fever; but it may be observed that, in common, rigors preceding suppuration are not followed by so much heat and sweating as those in an inter- mittent. In spontaneous inflammations it is not so easy to ascertain whether the constitution or the part is first affected ; and if we always could, it would be the best guide to know whether the inflammation was local entirely, or an effect of a constitutional affection: nothing but the pri- ority of the symptoms can in some degree fix this; but the constitutional symptoms are often so slight, at least at first, as not to be taken notice of. However, we know that indispositions of the constitution are pro- ductive of local complaints, which are often attended with inflammation, but which is often according to the nature of the parts *, the constitu- tion being first diseased ; and we know that in many fevers there is sup- puration in some part of the body, and often in particular parts, such as the parotid glands, probably according to the nature of the fever; such inflammations will, according to their violence, add to the consti- tutional affection. Constitutional affection arising from inflammations will be almost coeval with the inflammations, or at least will very soon follow; however, that will be according to the circumstance before re- lated, for inflammation is an act of the part, attended with a degree of violence, and the constitution will feel it sooner or later, according to circumstances : we see in cases of inflammation of the testicles from a gonorrhoea (which must be considered as entirely local), that the con- stitution is soon affected by it. But constitutional symptoms arise from external violence alone, and more especially when attended with loss of substance; and they will be sooner or later, according to the degree of the violence, and the importance of the parts lost, agreeably to what has been said; but simple violence, even with the loss of a part, I have al- ready observed, is not of such consequence as we should at first imagine, for in consequence of the loss of a limb, if the parts are allowed to heal by the first intention, the constitution is but little affected; it is, there- fore, violence with loss of substance, and which is to produce inflam- mation and suppuration, that gives rise to the constitutional symptoms; and when these commence, or more probably when the part sets about these operations, the constitution becomes affected. It is more the new disposition in the parts, than the quantity of inflammatory action in them, by which the constitution is affected, for we shall see that upon * Local inflammations arising from derangement of the constitution I think are most commonly of the scrofulous kind, more especially when in parts of a particular nature, such as lymphatic glands and ligamentous or tendinous parts, which, when in particular situations, are often supposed to be venereal. Vide Treatise on Venereal Disease, Yol. II.OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. 429 the simple commencement of the suppurative disposition, before it has taken place, rigors, etc. come on. 'Hie constitutional effects arising upon the commencement of inflam- mation, independent of situation, of vital parts, nerves, &c., are greater or less according to the nature of the disease. When the adhesive stage commences it has but very little effect upon the whole system; there is sometimes, however, a rigor, although not always ; this is more in com- mon spontaneous inflammations than in those arising from an injury done to a part, but such are seldom or ever alarming. When the suppura- tive disposition takes place, new effects upon the constitution arise, which are very considerable and varying in themselves. The cold fits or rigors are more frequently felt at the commencement of the suppurative than at the beginning of the adhesive inflammation, more especially too if it is what we commonly call spontaneous inflammations, which advance to suppuration; for in those inflammations occasioned by an accident or an operation, which must suppurate, they [the inflammations] appear to set out at the very first with a kind of suppurative disposition. Those arising in consequence of spontaneous inflammation, or from an injury, are not lasting, are often succeeded by hot fits, and if they terminate in perspiration then the patient is relieved; and are more or less so according to the greatness of the present inflammation, and the suppuration that is likely to follow, joined to the nature of the parts and their situation : if in vital parts they will be most violent, and, next to these, in parts far from the heart. This cold fit is indeed a constant symptom in most local diseases which affect the constitution, and in this case plainly shows that the constitution is so affected, or sympathizes with the part. It is thus also that fevers usually commence, and upon the absorption of any poisonous matter the same symptoms appear. I have seen them arise from a simple prick in the end of a finger, made with a clean sewing needle*, exactly similar to those arising from the absorption of poison. Disagreeable applications to the stomach produce them, and also dis- agreeable affections of the mind; but rigors are not confined to the com- mencement of disease, for they occur in its progress and sometimes at its termination, as will be mentioned. It is probable that the stomach is the cause of those rigors by its taking part in the diseased action of the constitution; for as the sto- mach is the seat of simple animal life, and thereby the organ of uni- versal sympathy of the materia vitm or the living principle, it is of course more or less affected upon all these occasions; so that an affec- tion of any part of the body and of the mind can produce very nearly * Hence it would seem as if simple irritation in a part was capable of affectum the whole nervous system. 6OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. 430 the same effect as that which arises from disagreeable applications to the stomach itself; which accounts for that viscus taking part in all constitutional affections. I am inclined to believe that sympathy of the stomach which occasions sickness arises from causes producing weak- ness or debility. It takes place from injuries or disorders of the brain, which occasion universal debility; it arises from loss of blood, and also from epileptic fits. How far the sickness is to be considered as an effect which is to produce action, viz. vomiting, and which action is to reflect strength back upon the constitution, I do not know; but it is certain that people who are sick and going to faint are prevented by the action of vomiting; the act of vomiting, therefore, appears often to be a cause of the prevention of the fits coming on, by rousing up the actions of life. The rigors I should be apt to suspect arise from weakness at the time. A sudden alteration, a sudden call, or a sudden and universal irritation upon the constitution will, I imagine, produce immediate weakness ; for every new action in a constitution must produce or tend to produce a weakness in that function, the effects of which will vary according to the necessity and state of the constitution. In some cases where the constitution is strong, and as it were equal of itself to the task, it will call up the animal powers to action, and produce the hot fit of a fever; but in weak constitutions, or in such as threaten dissolution, as in many diseases, especially towards the close, it loses by every rigor, and is sel- dom capable of producing a hot fit, but only occasions a cold clammy sweat; hence cold sweats, when a person is in extremities, is a com- mon symptom. That rigors are an effect of every sudden change in the constitution, and are not peculiar to the commencement of disease, is evident from the following cases ; which also prove that even the change to health shall produce the same effect, so that not only in its commence- ment and in its different stages a disease shall produce rigors, but in its termination or crisis. A boy about eleven months [years?]‘old was taken ill with a complaint, which could not be well understood from the symptoms, and which came on insensibly : his pulse was quick and full, for which he was bled three times, and the blood was rather sizy; the tongue was white; he was not very hot, but uneasy and restless, with loss of appetite. His stools were upon the whole pretty natural; he was observed to be every other day rather worse, although there never was a perfect intermission, but only a kind of remission. After having been ill for about a fortuight in this way, he was taken with a cold shivering fit, succeeded by a hot fit, and then a sweat. My opinion was that the disease was now formed, and that he would have more at the intermitting times ; but he had no more after. In short, the disease formed itself into that which has but one fit, and in this formation he had those symptoms. I have seen theOF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. 431 same symptoms in many diseases, especially those occasioned by an operation, which in general alarm, but which should not if they go through their stages. A patient of mine, at St. George’s Hospital, was cut for the stone: he had no uncommon symptoms for several weeks, when he was taken with a cold fit, which was succeeded by a hot one, and then by a pro- fuse sweat. The young gentlemen of the hospital were rather alarmed, conceiving them to be the signs of dissolution; but I told them that this was of no consequence, as the disease had completed its full action ; that it was either a regular ague, or arose from the irritation of the wound; and if the first, he would have more of them at stated periods, which the bark would probably cure; but if the second, it might not re- turn, for since the constitution was in possession of the complete ac- tion, that when the parts got better he would be well. He had no more, and went on doing as well as if no such fit had ever taken place. This is not the only instance of this nature. Here it is to be considered that those affections of the constitution arc effects of the local action of the solids, either when produced by spon- taneous causes or by accident; but there are sometimes constitutional symptoms or universal sympathies, which arise immediately out of the act of violence itself, and which are often dangerous. Loss of blood may be reckoned one cause, which will bring on all kinds of constitu- tional complaints, in consequence of weakness being produced; either immediate, as fainting, or secondary, as dropsies, as well as nervous af- fections, the locked jaw, for instance ; or violence alone, without the loss of blood, may often produce immediate fatal effects. I have seen a man thrown into such convulsions from the operation of the hydrocele being performed upon him, that I began to despair of his recover)'. I have known a man die immediately of castration. These symptoms are somewhat similar to the second, or nervous, but are still very different; for in the present the persons are as it were lost to them- selves, being rendered senseless, therefore it is probably more an affec- tion of the brain than the nerves. Another symptom attending inflammation, when it has affected the constitution, is frequent exacerbations, or periods in which the inflam- mation appears to be increased. They have great affinity to the rigors we have been mentioning. Exacerbations are common to all constitu- tional diseases, and would often appear to belong to many local com- plaints. They are commonly regular if the constitution is strong, hav- ing their stated times, and in proportion as they are so the disease is less dangerous. They are a repetition of the first attack, but seldom so stiong, except where there is a perfect cessation in the disease betweenOF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. 432 the fits. This is an attribute belonging to life, and shows that life can- not go on the same continually in any state, but must have its hours of rest and hours of action. In this, as in almost every other symptom of disease, the effect has been considered as a cause; for exacerbations have always been con- sidered as owing to the disease having its time of subsiding or lessen- ing and its time of increase. This idea might pass as just in fevers, where causes are not known; but where the causes continue the same, as ir. local diseases, we a priori should not expect it; yet we find in such cases periods of increase and decrease of the symptoms in the constitution, and therefore we must search after some principle belonging to animal life as a cause of this. We shall find that an animal is so constituted as to be incapable of existing for any continuance of time in any one state whatever. The actions of the sensitive principle, when in perfect health, have their re- gular exacerbations, viz. watching and sleep: it is disease that inter- rupts this regularity of the actions of health, therefore wre find that the actions of disease cannot always go on in the same w7ay; Nature rests insensible of the disease [as in ague], while the disease exists at all times alike. Since this is the case where we see evidently a continuance of the remote cause, and that the constitution is only capable of being af- fected by tbis cause at stated times, according to the species of irritation given and the constitution at the time, may we not reasonably suppose this to be the case where the cause is invisible, as in fevers ? Whether these exacerbations are an effect of an occasional increase of the inflammation, or whetlier the inflammation is increased by the pa- roxysm of the fever, is not easy to determine; but they attend each other. An ague is a disease which exists in the constitution between the fits as mucli as at the time of the fit; but the constitution becomes insen- sible of it, and the action can only last a stated time. The process of ulceration seldom appears to affect the whole system ; it is hardly known to exist, but in the appearance of the parts, viz. when the part which contains the matter gets softer to the touch, or when an ulcer becomes larger. But that rigors take place upon the commence- ment of ulceration I think is evident, although it cannot well be known in all cases; for ulceration will be so close upon suppuration in most cases that it will be difficult to distinguish which wras the cause of the rigor; but where suppuration has taken place, and the abscess is opened, so that the first act of suppuration is finished, yet if it is not opened, so as to allow of a ready outlet to the matter, for instance, if it is not opened at a depending part, the pressure of the matter against the most de-OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. 433 will take place. Those rigors, however, will not commence for some time alter the first opening, because the first opening will for some time •remove the disposition for ulceration all over the surface of the abscess ; but when it finds that this opening is not sufficient to take off the pres- sure, then it sets about forming another opening, and when it does so .the rigors will recur, and with as much severity as before. This is sup- posed by some to be new matter forming from fresh inflammation, and by others to be the absorption of matter already formed. Although ul- ceration does not affect the constitution equal to the mischief it is doing, yet its operations are often much affected by indispositions of the con- stitution ; in some indispositions its progress is increased; in others it is even brought on, as in many old sores, especially of the lower extremi- ties ; and in some indispositions its progress is lessened or stopped. The constitutional symptoms arising from a local complaint may be divided into three as to time, the immediate, indefinite, and remote. Of the first, or immediate, there appears to be but one ; of the second, there is probably a great variety, at least [a great many] appearing in very .different forms and at very different periods, in respect of the original cause. Of the remote there is probably only one. The immediate I shall reckon that which is called the symptomatic fever, and what I shall reckon the second are. nervous affections, as spasms, both temporary and permanent, and delirium. Whether the symptomatic fever, the .spasms, or the delirium, come first, is not certain, for often all concur or occur at the same time; but as the sympathetic fever is most con- stant, and is more an universal principle, it is to be reckoned the first. And the third, which I have called remote, is what is understood by the diectic, to which may be added the symptoms of dissolution, which is the last stage of all, and may be a consequence of either the above or any other disease. The first of the constitutional affections is commonly called the sym ptomatic fever, but which I choose to call the sympathetic inflammatory fever. I his is immediate, or nearly so, and is the sympathy of the constitution, with the first stages of a local disease, which excites an alarm in the constitution, thereby rousing up its powers to produce suc- ceeding actions. This would appear to show very much the nature of ,the constitution at the time; for not being of any specific nature, both inflammation and fever are led of course into the nature of the consti- tution by the natural tendency of the constitution itself, and therefore partake of it, and only become more or less of a specific, in proportion as t ic constitution has more or less of a specific susceptibility or dis- position. I have already observed, that affections of the constitution often com- VOL. Ill, o434 OF TIIE SUPPURATIVF INFLAMMATION. mence with rigor. However, the commencement of the sympathetic fever is not always attended with that effect, and I believe it is the best constitution where it is not; and in that case it changes into a regular fever of the inflammatory kind. If the constitution has powers, heat comes on, attended with dry skin, frequent, and commonly a full pulse, having at the same time a degree of hardness in the stroke; watchful- ness, high-coloured urine, loss of appetite for solids, and thirst; all these will vary according to various visible circumstances, as well as accord- ing to many invisible ones, some one symptom being more in one con- stitution, and less in another. It is in many instances difficult to determine what is cause and what is effect. It has been commonly supposed that this fever was necessary for the operation of suppuration, and therefore the fever did not arise from the sympathy of the constitution with a local injury, but as a ne- cessary effect to become a cause of suppuration. If this was the case, we could have no suppuration which had not been preceded by fever; and the fever must have been equal in all cases in the same constitution, let the quantity of injury' be what it will. For if a pimple, or the sup- puration of a scratch, depended upon fever, they would require as much fever for their production of inflammation and suppuration as the largest abscess, or largest wound ; for a point that inflames and suppurates is under the same predicament with respect to the whole that a thousand are ; and a large abscess is to be considered as only made up of a thou- sand points. One venereal sore requires as much mercury to cure it as a thousand. One plant requires as much wet weather and sunshine as a million. A principle that affects universally can only affect a part in proportion to the quantity of the universal affection there is in the part: each part has just its portion of general influence. Now, according to this proposition, which is undeniable, a scratch requires the same quantity of fever that an amputation of the thigh does. Let us see how this accords with common experience ; we find that in- flammations and suppurations of sores shall take place without any fe- ver ; that the fever, in consequence of an injury, is not in all cases in the least proportioned to the quantity of injury, inflammation, and sup- puration, which it always should be if the last was an effect of it; and we know if an increase of fever comes on, superadded to the sympathetic, that suppuration is retarded or stopped altogether instead of being quickened". * [The former and latter parts of this paragraph are plainly contradictory; for if, upon the supposition, a scratch and an amputation require the same quantity of fever, then the degree of fever should not he in proportion to the suppuration, which, however, it is asserted it should be in the latter part of this paragraph.]OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. 435 J-rom the same mode of reasoning it should he exactly the same, whether the fever produce suppuration in a vital part or in one that is not vital. It is much more easy to conceive that an injury done to a vital part shall be the cause of universal sympathy, than that a vital part should require more fever to make it inflame and suppurate than a part does which is not vital. This theory would at once overset our obser- vation that the constitution is affected or sympathizes more readily with some parts than with others. In many cases of spontaneous inflam- mations and suppurations it was natural to suppose that the fever was the cause of the suppuration; but if persons who thought so had ob- served accurately, they would have divided spontaneous suppurations into two kinds; one, whose remote and immediate cause was local, and therefore in such the fever followed the load action, as [happens] in injuries ; the other, where the remote cause was fever, which produced ic injury, and the injury, whatever it was, produced the inflammation and suppuration; so that here fever preceded, and was necessary for the remote cause, but not as the immediate; and indeed, as a proof of thi« suppuration hardly takes place till the fever is gone*. The smallpox of this last kind, as probably many other contagious diseases. - . , s>'ml,toms continue- more or less, according to the decree of injury, the nature and situation of parts, and the constitution; but as they arise from a local cause, which subsides, they of course subside also • mwever, as the constitution has often an inflammatory tendency or a endency to some other disease, besides the action arising from the vio- lence singly, the parts often run into it, and this is reflected upon the constitution, which passes into that action to which it has a tendency by which fever ,s kept up, and thereby inflammation. ’ I he subsiding of these symptoms is the cure; and where they are simply the effects of the violence, the fever cures itself; therefore the °my thing necessary is to lessen its violence; but if the injury is of any specific kind, that specific quality must be corrected, if possible, and then the cure will take place. As the motion of the blood in the whole system is increased, and as ■ . T* 1 2'“<m s"l>Pose it is locally increased, then what will dimi. nish the motton of the blood will relieve in this respect. There arc two T ffett 1 i n T' The fa‘ " ',y h‘king off iU fur“. «*«• this will effected by bleeding. This, if it docs not lessen its motion, or take V8.'!''1' a|>p,th“d tile fever I* suppo.od o> induce a 2 f 243() OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. off from the sympathy of the constitution with the local disease, yet it lessens the momentum in the whole and in the part, which is taking off the effect of the excess of motion in the blood. The second is by di- minishing the action of the parts by affecting the constitution, which may be done by purging; in this light bleeding may also be in some degree considered. It becomes in such cases very necessary to relieve the constitution by lessening the action of that constitution ; for although what has been advised w'as to lessen the inflammation itself, and thereby lessen its effects on the constitution, yet as that seldom is done suffi- ciently to remove any affection of the constitution, wre must therefore pay attention to that constitution ; the two remedies will in some degree go hand in hand, one assisting the other; for instance, in a strong healthy constitution, where the symptomatic fever runs high, bleeding and purging will have their double effects ; but still the constitution may require its peculiar medicines, which will in a secondary way relieve the inflammation. The secondary constitutional symptoms are not so determined as to time ; I have called them nervous, although not strictly so in every case, because more variety of affections are produced than from any cause I know; yet these affections seem all to have more connexion with the nervous than the vascular system, and are severally excited by the par- ticular tendency or susceptibility of different constitutions. Many of them, I believe, are more common to the young than the old, which come under the doctrine of universal nervous sympathy with a local complaint; of this kind are universal convulsions from teething or worms, local convulsions, as St. Vitus's dance, and probably many others not so well marked, as those which worms and teething often produce. I have seen hiccup come on early in consequence of an operation ; but in this stage of the nervous affection little was to be apprehended, although it certainly showed a peculiarity of constitution, and such as should be attended to; but when hiccup occurs towards the last stages, it shows strong signs of dissolution. Many full-grown persons are also subject to very severe affections of the nervous kind, especially those people who are called nervous; and ■more particularly still those who have bad affections in consequence of complaints of the stomach. In such constitutions there is observed great dejection, sinking, cold sweats, hardly any pulse, loss of appetite, no Bleep, etc., seeming to threaten dissolution; and those symptoms are wor«e by fits Delirium appears to arise from nervous affection of the brain or sensorium, producing a sympathy of the action of the brain with the materia vitm of the parts; not sensation as a liead-ache but action producing ideas without the exciting impression, and thereforeOF TIIE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. 437 delusive. This symptom is common to them all [viz. all the constitu- tional affections] ; it is frequently a consequence of their being violent, or carried to considerable length in their several kinds; often arising in consequence of compound fractures, amputation of the lower extremities, injuries done to joints, brain, etc., but not so often attending the hectic, although it is often a symptom of dissolution. We have agues also from many diseases of parts, more especially of the liver, as also of the spleen, and from induration of the mesenteric glands'*. I he following cases are remarkable instances of well-marked consti- tutional diseases from local irritation, where the constitution took on a. particular action, to which it had a strong tendency. A gentleman had a very bad fistula in perimeo from a stricture, and when the water did not come freely an inflammation in the part and scrotum was produced, and then he had an ague, which was relieved for a time by the bark.. I wo children had an ague from worms, which was not in the least re- lieved by the hark, hut by destroying the worms they were cured. As these diseases which I have brought into this class are of such \arious kinds, each must be taken up apart, and treated accordingly ; but they are such as yield very little to medicine, for in some the con- stitutional disease is formed, and does not require the presence of the local disease to keep it up, as in the tetanus; and in others, the local disease being still in force, it is not to be expected that the constitutional aflection is to be entirely relieved, although in some degree it may. In those which form a regular constitutional disease, such as an ague, al- though the local diseases may still exist in full force, yet some relief may be expected; the bark is to be administered, although not with a view to cure, as the immediate cause still exists ; but bark will in some lessen that susceptibility in the constitution, and may cure, at least for a time, as I have seen in agues arising from the fistula in perimeo. But the susceptibility in the two children cited above was so strong for such a disease, that the bark was not sufficient; and therefore, when the local cause is not known, and when the common remedies for such effects do not cure them, some local disease should be suspected. We see often such symptoms arising from diseases of the liver, and the bark curing this symptom, yet the liver shall go on with its disease, and pro. bably faster, as 1 believe bark is not a proper medicine for diseases of this vise us, such complaints of the liver have been too often attributed to the curing of the ague improperly by bark. St. Vitus's dance and many other involuntary actions have arisen from the same cause ; such • | I licse conditions of the liver and spleen are rather to be regarded as effects than ns causes of the ague.]OF TIIE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. 438 constitutions required only an immediate cause to produce the effects. It is possible, however, that no other mode of local irritation would have produced the same effect, every constitution having a part that is capa- ble of affecting it most. We find also local effects in consequence of local injuries, as the locked jaw, &c., which are remote sympathies with the part affected, which may become pretty universal, and which cannot be called immediate effects as to time, as they are often forming after the sympathetic fever has taken place, especially the locked jaw, which appears in many cases to be formed in the time of the preceding disease, and not appearing till it has subsided. There are certain intermediate steps between the inflammatory and the hectic state; but neither cure nor dissolution takes place in this period. The following case illustrates the effects of inflammation on the con- stitution : A lady, of what is called a nervous constitution, arising in some de- gree from an irritable stomach, often troubled with flatulencies and what are called nervous head-aches, with pale urine at those times, uncom- fortable feelings, and often sinkings, had a tumour removed from the breast, and likewise from near the armpit; nothing appeared uncommon for a few days, when very considerable disorders came on. She w’as attacked with a shivering or cold fit, attended with the feel of dying, and followed with cold sweat. It being supposed that she was dying, brandy was thrown in, which soon brought on a warmth, and she was relieved ; the fits came on frequently for several days, which were always relieved by brandy; and she took, in one of the most violent of them, about half a pint of brandy. While under these affections she took the bark as a strengthener; the musk, occasionally, as a sedative in pretty large quantities ; camphorated julep frequently, as an antispasmodic; and towards the last she took the valerian in large quantities; but whatever effect these might have in lessening the disease on the whole, they were certainly not equal to it without the brandy. Brandy removed those dying fits, and I thought they became less violent after taking the valerian. A question naturally occurs, Would the brandy alone, if it had been continued as a medicine, have cured her, without the aid of the other me- dicines ? The other medicines, I think, certainly could not have done it; nor do I believe that the brandy could have been continued in such quantity as to have prevented their returns; if so, then the two modes were happily united, the one gradually to prevent, the other to remove immediately the fits when they came on. This case, from the general tenour of the constitution, was running with great facility into the hectic.OF PUS. 439 CHAPTER V. OF PUS. Hitherto I have been treating of the operations of parts prepa- ratory to the formation of pus; I am now come to the formation of that fluid, its nature and supposed uses. T. he immediate effect of the mode of action above described is the for- mation of a fluid, commonly termed pus; this is very different from what was discharged in the time of the adhesive stage of the inflammation, when either formed in the cellular membrane or circumscribed cavities; it is also very different from the natural secretion of internal canals, though it is probably formed iu both by the same vessels, but under very different modes of action. The cellular membrane, or circumscribed cavities, have their vessels but little changed from the adhesive state at the commencement of the suppurative disposition, so that they still retain much of the form they had acquired by the first state, the discharge being at the beginning little more than coagulating lymph mixed with some serum. This is scarcely different from the adhesive stage of the inflammation ; but as the inflammatory disposition subsides, the new disposition is every in- stant of time altering those vessels to their suppurative state ; the dis- charge is also varying and changing from a species of extravasation to a new-formed matter peculiar to suppuration ; this matter is a remove further from the nature of the blood, and becomes more and more of the nature of the pus; it becomes whiter and whiter, losing more and more of the yellow and green, which it is apt to give the linen that is stained with it in its first stages, and in consistence more and more viscid or creamy. By the formation of this new substance, the coagulating lymph, which was extravasated in the adhesive state of the inflammation, and adhered to the sides of the cells, either in cut surfaces as in wounds, in abscesses, or circumscribed cavities, is pushed off from these surfaces ; and if it is the inner surface of a cavity, it is pushed into it, so that the cavity con- tains both coagulating lymph and pus; or if it is a cut surface, the co- agulating lymph is separated from it by the suppuration taking place, and is thrown ofl; but as such surfaces sire generally dressed immediately after the operation, while the wound is bleeding, this blood unites the440 OF PUS. dressings to the sore, which is assisted afterwards by the coagulating lymph thrown out in the adhesive stage ; the whole, viz. dressings, blood, and coagulating lymph, are generally thrown off together, when suppu- ration commences on these surfaces. This is the process which takes place in the first formation of an abscess, and the first process towards suppuration in a fresh wound. Upon the internal surfaces of the canals the parts do not go through all those steps; they would appear to run into suppuration almost in- stantaneously ; however, inflammation even here is a kind of forerunner of suppuration, Phis discharge from internal canals has never been reckoned true matter; it has been called mucus, etc., but it has all the characters of true pus which I am yet acquainted with. Pus is not to be found in the blood similar to that [viz. the coagula- ble lymph] which was produced in the first stage, but is formed from some change, decomposition, or separation of the blood which that un- dergoes in its passage out of the vessels, and for effecting which the vessels of the parts have been formed, which produces a subsiding of the inflammation from which it took its disposition; hence it must appear that the formation of pus consists of something more than a straining of juices from the blood. Many substances indeed which are to be con- sidered as extraneous bodies in the blood, being only mixed with, and not making an essential part of that fluid, and perhaps even [some that are] necessary to it, may pass off with the pus, as with every other se- cretion, yet the pus is not to be considered on that account as simply parts of the blood unchanged ; but we must look upon it as a new com- bination of the blood itself, and must be convinced that in order to carry on the decompositions and combinations necessary for producing this effect, either a new or peculiar structure of vessels must be formed, or a new disposition, and of course a new mode of action of the old must take place. This new structure or disposition of vessels I shall call glandular, and the effect, or pus, a secretion. §. 1. Of the general Opinion of the Formation of Pus. The dissolution of the living solids of an animal body into pus, aud that the pus already formed has the power of continuing the dissolution, is an old opinion, and is still the opinion of many, for their language is “ Pus corrodes, it is acrid, etc.” If this idea of theirs was just, no sore which discharges matter could be exempted from a continual dissolution ; and I think it must appear inconsistent, that the matter which was pro- bably intended for salutary purposes should be a means of destroying441 OF PUS. the very parts which produced it, and which it is meant to heal. Pro- bably they took their idea from finding that an abscess was a hollow cavity in the solids, and supposing the whole of the original substance ot this cavity was now the matter which was found in it. This was a very natural way of accounting for the formation of pus by one entirely ignorant of the moviug juices, the powers of the arteries, and the operation of an abscess after it was opened ; for the knowledge of these three, abstracted from the knowledge of the abscess before opening, should have naturally led them to account for the formation of pus from the blood by the powers of the arteries alone, for upon their principle these abscesses should continue to increase after opening as fast as be- fore. Upon this principle being established in their minds, viz. that solids were dissolved down into pus, they built a practice which was to bring all indurated parts to suppuration if possible, and not to open the suppuration in such parts early ; this was done with a view to give such solids time to melt down into pus, which was the expression; but ac- cording to their own theory, they seemed to forget that abscesses formed matter after opening, and therefore the parts stood the same chance of dissolution into pus as before. Also, from being possessed of this idea, that solids went into the composition of pus, they never saw' pus flowing from any internal canal, as in a gonorrhoea, etc., but they concluded that there was an ulcer; we would forgive such opinions before the knowledge that such surfaces could and generally did form pus without a breach of the solids; but that such an opinion should exist afterwards, is not mere ignorance, but stupidity; and the very circumstance of in- ternal circumscribed cavities, as the abdomen, thorax, etc., forming pus, where they might often have seen pints of matter, and yet no breach in the solids to have produced it, which is a proof beyond controversy, should have taught them better; such ideas discover defect of knowledge and incapacity for observation. 1 he moderns have been still more ridiculous; for knowing that it w'as denied that solids were ever dissolved into pus, and also knowing that there was not a single proof of it, they have been busy in producing w hat to them seemed proof. They have been putting dead animal mat- ter mto abscesses, and finding that it was either wholly or in part dis- solved, they therefore attributed the loss to its being formed into pus; but this was putting living and dead animal matter upon the same foot- ing, which is a contradiction in itself: for if the result of this experiment w as really according to their idea of it, the idea of living parts being dissolved into pus must fall to the ground, because living animal matter and dead animal matter can never stand upon the same ground. Common observation in their profession should have taught them thatOF PUS. 442 even extraneous animal matter would lie in abscesses for a considerable time before it was even dissolved. They might have observed in ab- scesses arising either from violence or from a species of erysipelatous inflammation, that there were often sloughs of the cellular membrane, and that those sloughs would come away like wet tow, and therefore were not dissolved into pus. They might also have observed in abscesses of tendinous parts, as about the ancle, &c., that often a tendon became dead and sloughed away, and that these sores do not heal till such parts have sloughed, and this is often not accomplished for months, and yet all this time those sloughs are not formed into pus. They might have also known or observed that pieces of dead bone shall lie soaking in mat- ter for many months, and yet not dissolve into pus; and although bones in such situations shall lose considerably of their substance (which might by the ignorant be supposed to have been dissolved into pus) yet that waste can be accounted for and proved on the principle of absorption; for they always lose on that surface where the continuity is broken off, and which is only a continuation of the separating process*. To see how far the idea was just that dead animal matter was dissolved by pus, I put it to the trial of experiment, because I could put a piece of dead animal matter of a given weight into an abscess, and which could at stated times be weighed. To make it still more satisfactory, a simi- lar piece was put into water, kept to nearly the same heat: they both lost in weight, but that in the abscess most, and there was also a differ- ence in the manner, for that in the water became soonest putrid. But these experimentshaving been made as far back as the year 1757,1 shall not rely on their accuracy, but state them as made by my brother-in-law Mr. Home, and as given in his Dissertation on the Properties of Pus, p. 32, under the idea that pus had a corroding quality. “ As pus has been supposed to have a corroding quality,” I may add even upon the living solids, “ I made the following experiments to as- certain the truth or fallacy of such an assertion, and found it to be void of foundation, and to have arisen from the inaccuracy of observers hav- ing prevented them from seeing the distinctions between pus in a pure state, and when mixed with other substances. “ I made a comparative trial upon matter contained in an abscess, and on pus and animal jelly out of the body. The matter and jelly were in equal quantities, and contained in glass vessels, kept nearly in the tem- perature of the human body. To make the comparative trials as fair as possible a portion of muscle, weighing exactly one drachm, was immersed * It may be supposed that bones are not capable of being dissolved into pus ; but we know that bone has animal substance in it, and we also know that this animal substance is capable of being dissolved into chyle.OF PUS. 443 in the matter of a compound fracture in the arm of a living man, and a similar portion into some of the same matter out of the body; also a third portion into iiuid calf’s foot jelly, in which the animal substance was pure, having neither wine nor vegetables mixed with it. These three portions of muscle were taken out once every twenty-four hours, washed in water, weighed and returned again. The results were as follows: “ hi 24 hours the portion of muscle in the abscess weighed sixty grains, was pulpy and soft, but quite free from putrefaction: that por- tion immersed in the pus weighed forty-six grains, was pulpy, soft, and had a slightly putrid smell: the portion in the jelly weighed thirty-eight grains, was smaller and firmer in its texture. In 48 hours the portion of muscle in the abscess weighed thirty-eight grains, and had undergone no change ; that in the matter weighed thirty-six grains, was softer and more putrid; that in the jelly thirty-six grains and smaller. In 72 hours the portion of muscle in the abscess weighed twenty-seven grains, was drier and firmer; that in the matter eighteen grains, and was ren- dered fibrous and thready; that in the jelly unaltered. In 96 hours the portion of muscle in the abscess weighed twenty-five grains; that in the matter was dissolved; that in the jelly weighed thirty-six grains*; In 120 hours the portion of muscle in the abscess weighed twenty-two grains, not at all putrid ; that in the jelly thirty-four grains, not at all putrid. In 144 hours the portion of muscle in the abscess weighed twenty-two grains, and was free from putrefaction; that in the jelly thirty-four grains.” The supposed facts of the solids dissolving being established in the mind as so many data to reason from, they had now no difficulty to ac- count for the formation of pus from both the solids and the fluids. Fer- mentation started up in the mind immediately as a cause; but there must be a cause for fermentation, and according to this idea there are facts which go against it. First, let us consider internal canals, where only mucus is naturally formed, taking on the formation of pus without the loss of substance or any previous ferment, and leaving it olf. Now if a fermentation of the solids and fluids was the immediate cause, I should beg leave to ask what solids were destroyed in order to enter into the composition of the pus discharged, for the whole penis could * One reason, probably, for the piece of meat so soon becoming putrid and dissolving in the pus was its being kept in the same pus the whole time, therefore its dissolution was owing more to putrefaction than a dissolving quality in the pus; whereas the piece in the abscess had its matter continually changing, which is the common result in a sore, and if it had a corroding quality independent of the putrefaction, it ought to have been dissolved first; but we may observe that the piece of muscle in the abscess and the piece in the jelly were nearly upon a par.444 OF'l’US. not afford matter enough to form the pus winch is discharged in a com- mon gonorrhoea. I should also beg leave to be informed how that fer- mentation of the fluids ever ceased; for there is the same surface secret- ing its mucus whenever the formation of pus ceases. Besides, if dis- solved solids enter necessarily into the composition of pus by the power of some ferment, it may be asked, by what power is the first particle of this fluid in an abscess or sore formed, before there is any particle ex- isting which is capable of dissolving the solids ? An abscess shall form, and, suppuration ceasing, it shall become stationary, perhaps for months, and at last be absorbed, and the whole shall heal; what becomes of the ferment the whole time it is stationary ? It has been supposed that blood when extravasated becomes of itself pus; but we find blood, when extravasated either from violence or a rupture of a vessel, as in an aneurism, never of itself becomes pus, nor was pus ever formed in such cavities till inflammation had taken place in them, and then in such cavities there was to be found both the blood and the matter: if the blood had coagulated (as it seldom does in those cases of violence) it would be found still coagulated, and if it had not coagulated the pus would be bloody. True pus has certain properties, which when taken singly may belong to other secretions, but when all joined, form the peculiar character of pus, viz. globules swimming in a fluid, which is coagulable by a solution of sal ammoniac (which no other animal secretion that I know is); and at the same time a consequence of inflammation : these circumstances taken together may be said to constitute pus. As inflammation does not produce at first true pus, I made the follow- ing experiments to ascertain its progress or formation. To do this it was only necessary to keep up an irritation on some living part a suf- ficient time to oblige it to set about the natural consequent actions, and the smooth coat of an internal cavity appeared to me to be well calcu- lated for such an experiment, where nothing could interfere with the actions of the parts or their result; and it would also show its progress on internal surfaces, which shows its progress in wounds and abscesses. §. 2. Experiments to ascertain the Progress of Suppuration. Experiment I. The tunica vaginalis of a young ram was opened and the testicle exposed. The surface of the testicle was wiped clean, and a piece of talc was laid upon it. The surface almost immediately be- came more vascular; five minutes after, the talc was removed and ex- amined in a microscope, but no globules could be observed, onlj a moisture, which appeared to be serum, len minutes after, there vere445 OF PUS. irregular masses formed on the talc, some transparent, with determined edges, but no globules: fifteen minutes after, nearly the same. At twenty minutes there was an appearance of globules. At twenty-five minutes, there were globules in clusters ; but I could not say exactly what those globules were. At thirty-five minutes, the globules more distinct, more diffused, and numerous. At fifty-five minutes, the globules still more perfect and distinct. At seventy, the globules more irregular, and of course less distinct. At eighty-five, the globules more distinct and nu- merous. At one hundred, more irregular and less distinct, forming little masses. At two hours, the masses more transparent, and the glo- bules fewer. At two hours and a half, the masses transparent, and no distinct globules. At four hours, some transparent masses appearing to contain globules. At seven hours, distinct globules and numerous. At eight hours, the globules more distinct and somewhat larger. At nine hours, less appearance of globules. At twenty-one hours, the testicle was covered with lint, and the skin brought over and kept together with a ligature, and allowed to remain for twelve hours (which, from the first, was thirty-three hours); when it was opened it was wiped dry, and a piece of talc applied for five minutes; the quantity of fluid was very small, but containing globules small and numerous. N.B. In this time, during which the testicle was covered, strong ad- hesions took place between the testicles and tunica vaginalis, which shows that probably the inflammation moved back to the adhesive stage whenever two similar surfaces were opposed. Forty hours, the above repeated and the globules a little more di- stinct. Forty-four hours, the appearance of globules very distinct, and the pus looked like common matter diluted. Experiment II. An opening was made through the linea alba .below the navel, several inches long, into the cavity of the belly of a dog, care being taken that no blood should pass into that cavity; a piece of tide was applied to the peritonaeum so as to be covered with the fluid which lubricates that surface; to do which it was found necessary to draw it over some considerable surface. This fluid was examined in the field of the microscope, and appeared to contain small semitransparent glo- bules, few in number, swimming in a fluid. 1 he lubricating fluid in the cavity of the abdomen appears, from re- peated experiments on healthy dogs, to be so small in quantity as only to give a polish to the different surfaces, but not sufficient to have a drop collected. After five minutes, the surfaces had more moisture upon them, which being examined as before, the globular appearance was more distinct. -In fifteen minutes the surfaces were more vascular; a portion of intes-446 OF PUS. tine was wiped dry, and a piece of talc applied to it; the fluid collected on it had a great number of globules, which were smaller than those at first observed. In an hour, this portion of intestine had its blood-vessels considerably increased in number, the whole surface appearing of a uni- formly red colour: this was wiped dry, and a piece of talc laid upon it; the fluid collected did not appear to be made up of globules, but of very small parts, which had some transparency, but not exactly regular in their figure, which became still more evident on drying, when they lost the transparency altogether; these were most probably coagulating lymph. This was repeated upon the surface of the spleen, which had its surface excessively red, from the increased number of small vessels carrying red blood, and the result was exactly similar. Fiom these experiments the fluid which lubricates the peritonaeum seems to undergo changes, in consequence of exposure, and at last, when inflammation takes place, to have coagulating blood substituted for it. Although the lubricating fluid of the peritonaeum is so small in quan- tity in a natural state, yet before that cavity has been exposed for half an hour the quantity is much increased, and has a mottled appearance of oil and water; but from the appearance in the microscope, it is only an increase of the original fluid with some coagulating lymph, although mistaken by some anatomists for an oily lubricating liquor. Experiment III. At half-past seven o'clock in the morning, an in- cision was made with a lancet into the upper fleshy part of a young ram’s thigh, into which was introduced a silver canula, about a quarter of an inch in diameter and three quarters long, writh a great number of small holes in the sides and open at the bottom; it was fastened by means of ligatures to the skin, and a small cork adapted to it. The blood was sponged out several times, and the cork kept in during the intervals. At half-past nine the cork was withdrawn, and the canula was found to contain a fluid ; a piece of talc was dipped in it, and the appearance was evidently globular, exactly like the red globules without the colour. At eleven, the quantity of fluid much increased, and the same appearance. At one, the quantity half filling the pipe, of a reddish brown colour; the globules more numerous, without colour when diluted with water. At *hree, the quantity considerable, the globules smaller, freer from colour. At half-past five, the same. Experiment IV. In the same manner the canula was introduced into the fleshy part of an ass s thigh, at nine in the morning; and at one o’clock, as also at two, there was a fluid tinged with red "lobules. At four, there were no diffused globules, but there appeared to be small flakes in a transparent fluid ; however, they proved to be clusters of glo-OF PUF. 447 holes. At seven, next morning, which was twenty-two hours, there was found in the canula common pus. From the experiments on internal surfaces, it would appear that pus was formed coeval with its secretion ; hut from Mr. Home’s experiments {op. cit., p. 51,) it would rather appear that the globules were not formed till some time after secretion, and this sooner or later, according to cir- cumstances, which we probably do not know. So far these experiments explain the progress of suppuration on in- ternal surfaces, and I shall now give its progress on the cutis, when deprived of its cuticle, from Mr. Home’s Dissertation on that subject, before mentioned. “ I applied a blistering plaster of the size of a half-crown piece to the pit of the stomach of a healthy young man. In eight hours a blister arose, which was opened, and the contents removed; they were fluid, transparent, and coagulated by heat; had no appearance of globules when examined by the microscope, and in every respect resembled the serum of blood. The cuticle was not removed, but allowed to collapse, and the fluid which was formed upon the surface of the cutis was ex- amined from time to time by a microscope, to determine as accurately as possible the changes which took place. “ The better to do this, as the quantity in the intervals stated below must be exceedingly small, a piece of talc, very thin and transparent, was applied to the whole surface, and covered with an adhesive plaster; and the surface of the talc applied to the skin was removed and ex- amined by the microscope, applying a fresh piece of talc after every examination, to prevent any mistake which might have arisen from the surface not being quite clean. “ 'flie fluid was examined by the microscope, to ascertain its appear- ance ; but as the aqueous part in which the globules of pus swim is found by experiment to coagulate by adding to it a saturated solution of sal ammoniac, which is not the case w-ith the serum of the blood nor the transparent part of the milk, I considered this as a property peculiar to pus; and consequently that it w’ould be a very good test by which to ascertain the presence of true pus. “ In eight hours from the time the blister was applied the fluid dis- charged was perfectly transparent, and did not coagulate with the solu- tion of sal ammoniac. Isine hours : The discharge was less transparent, but free from the appearance of globules. Ten hours: The discharge contained globules, which were very small, and few in number. Eleven hours: The globules were numerous, but still the fluid did not coagu- late with the solution of sal ammoniac. Twelve hours: The appear- ance much the same-as before. Fourteen hours : The globules a little448 OF PUS. larger, and the fluid appeared to be thickened by a solution of sal am- moniac. Sixteen hours : The globules seemed to form themselves into masses, but were transparent. 1 wenty hours : The globules were double the size of those first observed at ten hours, and gave the appearance of true pus, in a diluted state; the fluid was coagulated by a solution of sal ammoniac, the globules at the same time remaining perfectly distinct, so that I should consider this as true pus. Twenty-two hours: No change appeared to have taken place. Thirty-two hours: The fluid was con- siderably thicker in consistence, the number of globules being very much increased; but in no other respect, that I could observe, did it differ from that formed twenty hours after the application of the blister.” 1 o ascertain the progress of suppuration on canals or secreting sur- faces, I ha\ e often examined the matter on a bougie that had been in- troduced into the urethra, and found it to be formed earlier than either of the times before mentioned: Mr. Home’s experiment makes it five hours ; but we often find a gonorrhoea coming on at once, not having in the least been preceded by a leading discharge. Since that period experiments have been made on pus from different kinds of sores, with an intention to ascertain the nature of the sore by the result of such analysis. That sores give very different kinds of pus is evident to the naked eye; and that the different parts of which the hlood is composed will come away in different proportions, we can make no doubt; and we find that whatever is in solution in the blood comes ■away more in one land of pus than another, which arc all so many de- viations from true pus; we may also observe, that such kinds of pus change, after being secreted, much sooner than true pus, which will be observed by and by. From all this I should be apt to conceive that such experiments will throw little light on the specific nature of the disease, which is the thing wanted. From such experiments we may find out that pus from a venereal bubo in its height of malady, or that from a cancer, is bad matter, but cannot ascertain the difference between those two matters and all others, nor the specific difference between the two. The smallpox, although as malignant a disease as any, and one which produces a pus as replete with poisonous particles as any, yet gives a true pus, when not of the confluent kind, which disposition is not small- pox. The reason why it is good pus is because its inflammation is of the true suppurative kind; and the reason why it is of the true suppu- rative kind is because the parts have the power of curing themselves, just as much as in any accident which happens to such a constitution; but this is not the case with either the venereal disease or the cancer; from the moment these set out, their dispositions tend to become worse and worse; but the venereal bubo, if mercury is given so as to affect it.449 OF PUS. soon gives us another kind of pus, although this has the poison equally in it; therefore it is not the circumstance of containing a poison which makes it wlmt is called a bad pus, but its being formed from a sore that has no disposition to heal: as we cannot give healing action to a cancer, so we never can have a good pus. The observation respecting the small- pox is applicable to the venereal gonorrhoea, for this complaint having the power of curing itself, its pus is good in proportion to that power; but as the periods of cure are not so determined as in the smallpox, neither is its time in producing good pus so determined; but, like the smallpox, as well as the venereal disease, when it is healing we have good pus, although it contains the poison. From the above experiments it must appear unnecessary to give the chemical analyses of what is commonly called pus, for whatever comes from a sore has that name, although very different in many cases from what I should call true pus; and we shall find in those sores that have ^ome specific quality which hinders them from healing, that the dis- charge is not pus. Probably the chemical properties may be nearly the same in them all. §• 3. Of the Properties of Pits, Pus, in the most perfect state, has at the first view certain peculiar qualities. 'Ihese are principally colour and consistence ; but it appears that the colour takes its rise from the largest portion of the whole mass being composed of very small round bodies, very much like those small round globules which, swimming in a fluid, make cream : I should sup- pose those round globules to be white in themselves, as cream would appear to be, although it is not necessary that the substance of matter which reflects a white should be itself white, for a vast number of trans- parent bodies being brought together will produce a white, such as broken glass, broken ice, water covering globules of air, making froth, &c. These globules swim in a fluid, which we should at first suppose to be the serum of the blood, for it coagulates with heat like serum, and most probably is mixed with a small quantity of coagulating lymph ; for pus in part coagulates, after having been discharged from the secreting vessels, as mucus is observed to do. But although it is thus far similar to serum, yet it has properties that serum has not. Observing there was a similarity between pus and milk, I tried if the fluid part of pus ton e coagulated with the juice of the stomach of other animals, but oun it could not. I then tried it with several mixtures, principally witn the neutral salts, and found that a solution of sal ammoniac coa- VOL. III. O «OF PUS. 450 gulated this fluid : not finding that a solution of this salt coagulated any other of our natural juices, I concluded that globules swimming in a fluid that was coagulable by this salt was to be considered as pus, and would be always formed in sores that had no peculiar backwardness to heal. The proportion that these w'hite globules in the pus bears to the other parts, depends on the health of the parts which formed it; for when they are in a large proportion the matter is thicker and whiter, and is called good matter ; the meaning of which is that the solids which produced it are in good health, for these appearances in the matter are no more than the result of certain salutary processes going on in the solids, the effect of which processes is to produce the disposition on which both suppuration and granulation depend. All this is a good deal similar to the formation of milk ; for in the commencement of the secretion of this fluid it is at first principally serum, and as the animal advances towards delivery the globules are forming and become more in quantity, and the animal that has them in largest quantity has the richest milk; likewise when they are naturally leaving off secreting milk, it again takes an exact retrograde motion; and we may also observe, that if any local affection attacks this gland, such as inflammation, the milk falls back to the state I have been now describing; or if any constitutional affec- tion takes place, such as fever, &c., then this gland suffers in the same manner. Pus is specifically heavier than water; it is probably nearly of the same weight with blood or any other animal substance rendered fluid. Pus, besides the above-mentioned properties, has a sweetish and mawkish taste, probably from having sugar in it, which is very differ- ent from most other secretions, and the same taste takes place whether it is pus from a sore, viz. an ulcer, or an irritated inflamed surface. Thus, if any have an ulcer in their nose, mouth, throat, lungs, or parts adja- cent, so that the matter shall come into the mouth unaltered by putre- faction, they will be able to taste it from its having this property; whereas the mucus and saliva of those parts are tasteless. The same thing happens when an irritation to inflammation takes place on the surface of those parts without ulceration. If the internal surface of the nose is inflamed, so that when we blow it on a white handkerchief we see the substance discharged of a yellow colour, we also find that when we draw up the same substance into the mouth that it has a sweetish mawkish taste. If it is the surface of the mouth or throat that discharges this matter, the same taste is observable; and if it is brought up from the trachea and lungs, in consequence of the common effects of a cold on those parts, the same taste is also to be451 OF PUS. observed : so that pus, from whatever surface, whether an irritated na- tural surface or the surface of a common sore, lias this property. „ Pus has a smeU in some degree peculiar to itself; but this differs. Some diseases, such for instance as the venereal gonorrhoea, it is pre- tended may be known by the smell. To ascertain the properties of pus, or to distinguish it from mucus, it has, with mucus, been put to the test of chemistry. Solution in men- trua, and precipitation, were thought to be a test of their distinction. This principle in its very first appearance is unphilosophical, and was at the very first treated by me as absurd. I conceived that all animal substance whatever, when in solution, either in acids or alkalis, would then be in the same state, and therefore that the precipitation would be the same m all. Calcareous earth, when dissolved in an acid, (for in- stance, the muriatic,) is in that acid in the same state, whether it has been dissolved from chalk, limestone, marble, or calcareous spar; and the precipitations from all are the same. However, whatever my opinion might be, yet bold assertions, the re- sult of described experiments, made me avoid falling into the same error, of describing what I never had seen. 1 made, therefore, some experi- ments on this subject; and, in consequence of having previously formed the above-mentioned opinion, I was more general in my experiments. J made them on organic animal matter as well as on inorganic, and the result was the same in all. . As orSanic animaI matter>1 took muscle, tendon, cartilage, gland, viz. liver and brain : as inorganic animal matter, I took pus and the white of an egg, and dissolved each in the vitriolic acid, and then precipitated the solution with vegetable alkali. Each precipitation I examined with such magnifiers as plainly showed the forms of the precipitate, all of which appeared to be flaky substances. The precipitate by the volatile alkali appeared exactly the same. To carry those experiments a little further, I dissolved the same sub- stance in the vegetable caustic alkali, and precipitated the solution with t e muriatic acid, and examined each precipitate with the microscope r^ukr fomaranCe "" ** ^ ^ a ^ Subatance> without any 1 o see how far the nature of sores might be ascertained from the na- ture of their discharge, matter from a cancerous sore has been analysed, «nd the result has been that such matter differs from the true pus ; but this explains nothing more than what the naked eye can perceive, that 's not pus, but it will not show the specific difference between the matter from a cancer and matter from a venereal bubo, where mercury has not been given, nor will it tell that one is cancer and the other is 2 g 2452 OF PUS. venereal. We might as well analyse the urine at different times, in order to ascertain the nature of kidneys at those times. The quality of pus is always according to the nature of the parts which produce it, and whatever specific qualities the parts may have besides, the pus has also this specific quality; hence we have venereal matter from venereal sores, smallpox matter from smallpox sores, can- cerous matter from cancerous sores, &c. It is not in the least affected by tiie constitution, except the parts which produce it arc also affected by the constitution. Pus is so far of the same specific nature with the part which produces it, that it docs not become an irritator to that part; it is perfectly in harmony with it; the part is not in the least sensible of it: therefore the pus of a suppurating surface is not an irritator to the same surface, but may be an irritator to any other not of the same kind. Hence no suppurating surface of any specific kind can be kept up by its own mat- ter ; for if this had not been the case, no sore of any specific quality, or producing matter of an irritating quality, could ever have been healed. This is similar to every other secretion of stimulating fluids, as the bile, tears, &c., for those do not stimulate their own glands or ducts, but are capable of stimulating any other part of the body. The venereal gonor- rhoea, smallpox, &c. healing or recovering of themselves, are striking instances of this. However, we find matter under certain circumstances stimulating its own sore, and also secretions stimulating their own canals, as the secretions of the intestines stimulating themselves; but how far this may not arise from one part of the intestines being so diseased as to se- crete a stimulating fluid, and coming to a sound part stimulates that only, I will not determine. This I am certain happens to the rectum and anus; for it very often happens in purging that the watery stools shall irritate those parts so much as to make them feel as if they were scalded. 1 his idea seems reasonable on another principle ; for when we consider matter in the gross, we shall find that it is often mixed with extraneous substances which make no part of it, being probably strained from the blood, and also probably undergoing a change afterwards from its not being pure pus ; nor do these always arise entirely from the nature of the sore, for they are produced by sores of very different specific qualities, it being the species of matter itself which arises from the nature of the sore; however, the kind of sore will often produce more or less of this extra- neous matter, and this additional substance may act as a stimulus on every kind of sore. What I have considered thus far is the natural process of a sound constitution and sound parts ; since a sore that is going through all the natural to 'a cure is not to be called a di>ease.453 OF PUS. A proof of this is, that whenever a real disease attacks either the sup- purating surface, or the constitution, these processes of nature are de- stroyed, and the very reverse take place, the production of true pus ceases, and the fluid becomes changed in some measure in proportion to these morbid alterations; in general it becomes thinner and more trans- parent, as it the part was returning back to the adhesive state, it par- takes more of the nature of the blood, as is the case in most other secre- tions under similar circumstances. This in common language is not called pus, but sanies. Pus arising from such state of sores has more of the serum and fre- quently of the coagulating lymph in it, and less of the combination that renders it coagulable with a solution of sal ammoniac. It has a greater proportion also of the extraneous parts of the blood that are soluble in water, such as salts, and becomes sooner putrid. The two last species of matter not being of the same specific nature with the sore, they have the power of stimulating even their own sore. On this last account too pus becomes more irritating to the adjoining •parts with which it comes in contact, producing excoriation of the skin -and the ulcerative inflammation, as the tears, when they run out, exco- riate the skin of the cheek from the quantity of salts which they contain. From this effect the matter has been called corrosive, a quality which it has not; the only quality which it possesses being that of irritating the parts with which it comes in contact in such a manner that they are removed out of the way by the absorbents, as will be described when treating on ulceration. In these instances of the change in the pus, we may say that the change is effected by the decomposition and new combination not being carried on so perfectly. This may probably depend on the secreting vessels having lost their due structure and action, and this appears to be so much the case that they not only fail in this operation, but the other offices of those vessels, viz. the production of granulations is also checked; for the vessels forming themselves into a certain structure which fits them for secreting pus, it is so ordered that the same struc- ture also fits them for producing granulations; and thus those two pro- cesses arc concomitant effects of the same cause, which cause is a pe- culiar organization superadded to the vessels of the part. W hat organization this may be is not in the least known ; nor must "c wonder at this, for it is exactly the same with every other organ of secretion, about all which we are equally ignorant. Indeed, some of the differences between one gland and another arc made out, and also some- thing of their general structure, but not in such a way as oan lead us to the actions and operations of the several parts upon which the nature454 OF PUS. of the different secretions depend, so as to enable us to conclude <j priori that this or that gland must secrete this or that peculiar juice. Pus, from several circumstances often attending it, would appear in general to have a greater tendency to putrefaction than the natural juices have; but I very much suspect that this is not really the case with pure pus, for when it is first discharged from an abscess it is in general perfectly sweet. There are, however, some exceptions to this, but these depend on circumstances entirely foreign to the nature of pus itself. Thus, if the abscess had any communication with the air while the matter was confined in it, (as is frequently the case with those in the neighbourhood of the lungs,) or if it has been so near the colon or rectum as to have been infected by the freces, under such circumstances we cannot wonder that it becomes putrid. Matter formed early in the state of suppuration, either in abscesses, or more especially in conse- quence of any external violence committed on the solids, has always in it a portion of blood ; or if some parts of the solids mortify and slough, these will mix with the matter. The same thing happens when the in- flammation has something of the erysipelatous disposition, so as to have pioduced a mortification in the seat of the abscess: in all such circum- stances we find the pus has a greater tendency to putrefy than the pure or true pus which comes to be discharged afterwards in sound abscesses or healing sores, and accordingly the matter from recent sores becomes \ cry putrid betw'een every dressing; whereas when the same sores are further advanced it is perfectly sweet at the same periods. But although the imperfect or heterogeneous matter that is formed at first is liable to putrefy when exposed, yet if it is perfectly confined in an abscess it will remain a considerable time without putrefaction. The suppuration, how- ever, in consequence of the erysipelatous inflammation, which is often attended with suppuration produced by internal mortification, is, as we have observed, an exception to this rule; for although confined from external air, yet the matter becomes soon putrid, and this most probably arises from the solids themselves first becoming putrid. A similar observation may be made with respect to sores which have been in the habit of discharging good pus; for if by any accident an extravasation of blood is produced in these parts, or a disposition is brought on to throw out blood, w'hich mixes with the pus, the discharge changes from its former sweetness, and becomes much more putrid and offensive. It appears that pure matter, although easily rendered sus- ceptible of change by extraneous additions, is in its own nature pretty uniform and immutable: it appears so unchangeable, that we find it re- tained in an abscess for wrecks without having undergone any change; but these qualities belong only to perfect pus; for if a sore from a sound staleOF PUS, 455 changes its disposition and becomes inflamed, the matter now produced from it, though there be no extravasated blood or dead solids, becomes much sooner putrid than that which was discharged before this altera- tion of disposition, and will become much more irritating, as has already- been observed. From the above-mentioned considerations we can explain why the dis- charge in many specific diseases, although not in all, is so much more offensive than in common sores; for in these cases it is commonly not true pus, and is generally mixed with blood. In the same manner, likewise, where there are diseased bones, or other extraneous bodies which excite irritation, sometimes even to so great a degree as to cause the vessels to bleed, and often wounding the vessels of the part, the matter is always found to be very offensive, one mark (although not commonly accounted for) of a diseased bone. Our silver probes are rendered almost black when introduced into the discharge of an unhealthy sore ; preparations of lead are the same, when applied to such matter: it even dissolves animal substance. If, for in- stance, a fresh wound has its lips brought together and held there with sticking-plaster spread upon leather, we shall find, if the wound sup- purates, that the parts of the strips of leather going over the wound will be between the first and second dressing quite dissolved, dividing the strips into their two ends; and the plaster, which commonly has lead in it, shall become black where it has come in contact with this matter. This change in the colour of metals is also produced by eggs when not perfectly fresh, although not become putrid, and probably this property is assisted by the boiling or roasting. Dr. Crawford, in his experiments on the matter of cancers and animal hepatic air [sulphuretted hydrogen], attributes the dissolution of the metals to that air*. §.4. Of the Use of Pus. 1'he final intention of this secretion of matter is, I believe, not yet understood, although almost every one thinks himself able to assign one; and various are the uses attributed to it. It is by some supposed to carry oft humours from the constitution. It is sometimes supposed to be a constitutional disease changed into a local one, and so discharged or thrown out of the body, either in form of, or with the pus, as in those cases to be called critical abscesses; but even those who see this final intention are very ready to overturn it, by supposing that this matter is l’liilos. Transact., vol. Ixxx. year 1790, part '2nd. p. 385.456 OF PUS. capable of being taken back again into the constitution by absorption, and producing much worse evils than those it was meant to relieve. I believe that the supposed cases of absorption are more numerous than those where it is supposed to relieve; if so, then by their own account nothing is gained. Or it is presumed to carry of!' local complaints from other parts of the body by way of derivation or revulsion; for this rea- son sores, as issues, are made in sound parts, to allow other sores to be dried up, or even with a view to oblige parts to dissolve themselves into pus, as indurated swellings ; but we have endeavoured to show that the solids make no part of pus. A secretion of pus is also looked upon as a general prevention of many or of all the causes of disease; issues, therefore, are made to keep oft’ both universal disease as well as local. But I am apt to believe that wo are not yet -well or perhaps at all acquainted with its use, for it is com- mon to all sores, takes place in the most perfect degree in those sores which may be said to be the most healthy, and especially in those where the constitution is most healthy. We find also that very large discharges, " hen proceeding from a part which is not essential to life, produces very little change in the constitution, and as little upon being healed up, what- ever some people may suppose to the contrary. One might naturally imagine that it was of service to the sore which formed it to keep it moist, &c., for all internal surfaces have their pecu- liar moisture ; but as a sore is to heal, and if allowed to dry so as to form a scab, then a sore is disposed to form no more pus and heal faster, it is the mode of dressing external sores that keeps up this secretion, which in this respect maintains the sore in the state of an internal one. But this will not account for the formation of an abscess, which is the formation of pus we can best account for, since it produces the exposure of inter- nal surfaces : in many cases it is of singular sendee to procure the se- cond mode of cure, and open a communication between the disease and the external surface of the body. It also forms a passage for the exit of extraneous bodies : but all these are only secondary uses". * [The chemical qualities of pus have not yet been accurately investigated, nor do we as yet possess any accurate test for distinguishing mucus from the purulent secretion. Dr. George Pearson, in his observations on this fluid in the Philosophical Transactions, 1810, p. 294. has distinguished four leading varieties, to which all the others may be referred, viz. 1. the healthy, or creatulikc and equally consistent; 2. the curdy anil unequally consistent; 3. the serous and thin; and 4. the viscid and slimy. As these, however, under the-microscope all exhibit the same intimate structure, consisting of minute particles suspended in a transparent fluid, it is reasonable to infer that w hate' er differences exist depend on the relative proportions of their constituent parts, or the different degrees of aggregation in which their particles are united. The globular structure of the pus, as first pointed out by Seitac, hat tecently beenOF PUS. 457 tailed in question by the microscopical observations of Messieurs Hodgkin and Lister, who found that the particles above mentioned possessed the utmost variety in size as well as in external configuration. According to Schwilgue pus consists of albumen in a particular state, extractive mat- ter which appears to have no analogue in the healthy state, fatty matter, soda, muriate of soda, phosphate of lime, and other salts. According to some the particles of pus are merely the globules of the blood modified in size and colour, (Gendrin, ii. 479 ; Andral, Anat. Path., i. 389,) while by others they are regarded as the coagulable lymph exist- ing in a very minute state of division and suspended in the serum of the blood, (Babing- ton, Med.-Chir. Tr., xvi. p. 305,) an idea which agrees pretty nearly with that of Mr. Hunter, who says that “ this matter (i. e. the matter which accompanies and precedes the suppurative stage) is a remove further from the nature of the blood, and becomes more and more of the nature of the pus.” Pus from mucous membranes is said to con- tain a greater quantity ot albumen than usual; from bone a greater quantity of the phos- phates and muriates of lime ; from the inflammation of gout a larger proportion of the carbonates and phosphates, and perhaps of the urate of lime j and from scrofulous ab- scesses a greater relative proportion of soda and the muriate of soda : but, as Mr. Hunter has justly remarked, such tacts, even if well established, are of little real value. 1 he formation of pus was first philosophically classed by Mr. Hunter with the other secretions, and shown to be liable to all those modifications to which the secretions in general are subject from constitutional and local causes. M. Gendrin, in his elaborate work on inflammation, has admitted in general terms the correctness of this doctrine, and yet, inconsistently enough, has attempted to establish, not only the identity of the pus and blood globules, and their gradual metamorphosis intra et extra vascula into pus, but also the transformation of the coagulable products of inflammation after their effu- sion, so as to revive in almost direct terms the ancient doctrine on this subject, of the gradual melting down of the textures. If we examine, he says, a portion of cellular tissue under the microscope, infiltrated with a mixture of bloody serum and pus, we s hal observe at the point furthest from the seat of suppuration a simple clear fluid, entirely devoid of globules; a little nearer and we shall perceive globules exactly resembling those of the blood ; these, as we approach the seat of suppuration, lose a little of their transparency and deprive themselves of their external envelopes, which hang in strice on their surfaces; still nearer they have a semi-opaque character and become yellow- ish ; and finally they assume the genuine characters of pus. He has been able, he says, to trace these progressive mutations not only in the proper vessels, until it finally exuded on the surface, but also in all the coagulable fluids effused in inflammation, and cites several experiments to this purpose. (Op. cit. ii. 471 et seq. (1447.)) It does not appear to me, however, that the experiments which he has detailed at all warrant the conclusion which he has drawn from them, especially when we take into our consideration the following circumstances; 1. that the pus globules are nearly twice as large as those of the blood, and very irregular in size as well as figure; 2. that they display no organizable faculty; 3. that the theory assigns two causes, one chemical and the other vital, for the formation of pus (1401.), as well as two substances, one globular and the other not so, from which it is formed ; and 4. that it is not supported by any analogy in regard to the secretions generally, nor account for the influence which the constitution exercises in modifying the time and mode of suppuration, or the superad- dition of specific qualities to the pus. 1 lie occurrence ofpurulent deposits, &e. in vascular coagula, unconnected with the sur- rounding solids, has been already adverted to (p. 269, note), and has been attempted to he explained by M. Andral by comparing them to the lowest order of animated beings, winch, antecedent to any traceable organization, arc capable of vital acts and of develop- ing an organization by their own innate forces, similar to embryonic germs. Nay, lieOF PUS. 458 does not hesitate to ascribe the origin of parasitic acephalocysts and entozoa to this source (op. cit. p. 377 ft seq.). These speculations, however, are scarcely admissible iu the present state of science. The only thing which we are able to say with any cer- tainty on this subject is, that these depositions are usually found to coexist with suppu- rations in other parts of the system, and therefore may with more probability be ascribed to the resorption of matter.] *THE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. 459 CHAPTER VI. THE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. In considering the origin and course of the blood, it would have been most natural to have considered absorption, or the absorbing vessels; for in one point of view they may be considered as the animal consist- ing of so many mouths, everything else depending upon them or belong- ing to them, for in tracing these dependencies we find that there exists ultimately little else but absorbents. The stomach and the organs con- nected with it in such animals as have a stomach, are to be considered ns subservient to this system; and many an animal is to be considered as consisting of a number of stomachs8. A piece of coral, for instance, appears to be no more than a thousand stomachs, all taking in food for digestion and absorption, for increase and support of the whole; for each stomach does not increase as the piece of coral increases, but they multiply in number, and of course the whole piece of coral increases ; for although each appears to be a distinct animal yet it is not so. But as this is too general a view of this system for our present purpose, I shall leave it, and confine myself principally to the uses of the absorb- ents m the diseases of which I am going to treat; and as one of their uses in diseases, and indeed the principal one, has not been described, nor indeed in the least conjectured, that it may be clearly understood or distinguished from the other known uses, I shall relate first the more common uses which have been formerly assigned to this system. hirst, the absorbents take up extraneous matter, in which is included nourishment. Secondly, superfluous and extravasated matter, whether natural or diseased. Thirdly, the fat. Fourthly, they produce a waste of parts, in consequence of which muscles become smaller, bones become lighter, etc. Although these two last effects were perhaps not expressly said to be carried on by ab- sorption, either by veins or any other system of vessels, yet we must suppose they were understood : so far the absorbents have in general been considered as active parts in the animal ccconomy; but from a a [See note, p. 1161.460 THE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. Absorption in consequence of disease. Absorption connected with growth. further knowledge of these vessels we slmll find that they are of much more consequence in the body than has been imagined, and that they are often taking down what the arteries had formerly built up; removing whole organs; becoming modellers of the form of the body while grow- ing ; also removing many diseased and dead parts, which were beyond the power of cure ; of all which I shall now take particular notice. As these vessels are productive of a vast variety of effects in the ani- mal ceconomy, which are very dissimilar in the intention and effect, they may be viewed in a variety of lights, and admit of a variety of divisions’*. I shall consider them in two views: first, as they absorb matter, which is not any part of the machine; secondly, as they absorb the machine itself. The first of these is the well-known use, the absorption of matter, which is no part of the machine. This is of two kinds, one exterior matter, in which may be ranked everything applied to the skin, as also the chyle ; and the other interior, such as many of the secreted juices, the fat, and the earth of bones, etc.*. These are principally with a view * It may be necessary to remark here, that I do not consider either the fat, or the earth of bones, as a part of the animal; they are not animal matter; they have no action within themselves. They have not the principle of life. a [The following tabular statement of Mr. Hunter’s classification of absorption is in- troduced for the convenience of reference. Absorption for nourishment. Absorption of useless, in convenient,or hurtful parts. Extraneous matter to Interstitial absorption brane, muscles, &c. Extraneous, that have been useful, as synovia and other secretions, become r useless. I Parts of the body 1 itself. become useful, as chyle, fat, Stc. of parts of the body itself, as cellular niein- Producing wasting of a part, as a leg, an arm, Sc.; or wasting of the whole body. Absorption of the whole parts. As modellers in the time of growth. In consequence of weakness, as in the removal of calluses. From parts becom- ing wholly useless, as the alveoli. Interstitial ah sorption ' of a leg, an arm, &c.; or of the whole body, as vasting^ in atrophy. of a callus, of a testicle, vasting of calluses, alveoli, testicles, Src. [ As when pus or any extraneous body is' brought to the skin, f Partial wa I | Total was Progressive ab-J In the process of exfoliation of bones, sorption. ; In Attended with suppura- tion. Mixed. the process of sloughing, In the formation of ulcers, [ In the removal of the fangs of the teeth. Without suppuiation. As in the progress of pus, tumours, &c. to the skin.]TIIE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. 4GI to its nourishment, and also answer many other purposes; so that the action of absorbing foreign matter is extremely extensive, for besides its salutary effects, it is often the cause of a thousand diseases, especially from poisons, none of which are to my present purpose. In the second of these views we are to consider them as removing parts of the body itself, in which they may be viewed in two lights. The first is, where only a wasting is produced in the whole machine or part, such as in the wasting of the whole body from an atrophy; or of a part, as in the wasting of the muscles of the leg, etc. from some in- jury done to some nerve, tendinous part, or joint, all of which I call in- terstitial absorption, because it is removing parts of the body out of the interstices of that part which remains, leaving the part still as a perfect whole*. But this mode is often carried further than simply wasting of the part; it is often continued till not a vestige is left, such as the total decay of a testicle, so that the interstitial absorption might be under- stood in two senses. The second is, where they are removing whole parts of the body. Ibis may be divided into the natural and the diseased f. In the natu- ral they are to be considered as the modellers of the original construc- tion of the body; and if we were to consider them fully in this view we should find that no alteration can take place in the original formation of many of the parts, either in the natural growth, or that formation arising from disease, in which the absorbents are not in action, and take not a considerable part: this absorption I shall call modelling absorp- tion. If I were to consider their powers in this light, it would lead me into a vast variety of effects, as extensive as any principle in the animal ceconomy, for a bone cannot be formed without it, nor probably many other parts. A part which was of use in one stage of life, but which becomes entirely useless in another, is thus removed. This is evident in many animals; the thymus gland is removed; the ductus arteriosus, and the membrana pupillaris are removed. This process is, perhaps, more remarkable in the changes of the insect than in any other known animal. Absorption in consequence of disease is the power of removing com- plete parts of the body, and is in its operation somewhat similar to the first of this division, or modelling process, but very different in the in- tention, and therefore in its ultimate effects. This process of removing whole parts in consequence of disease in some cases produces effects which are not similar to one another; one of these is a sore or ulcer, and * This mode of absorption has always been allowed or supposed, whether performed by the lymphatic veins or lymphatics. t riicse uses I claim as iny own discovery. I have taught them publicly ever since the year 1772.462 TIIE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. I therefore cull it ulcerative. In other cases no ulcer is produced, al- though whole parts are removed, and for this I have not been able to find a term; but both may be denominated progressive absorption. This process of the removal of a whole solid part of the body, or that power which the animal ceconomy has of taking part of itself into the circulation by means of the absorbing vessels whenever it is necessary, is a fact that has not in the least been attended to, nor was it even sup- posed, and having now been noticed, I mean to give a general idea of it. I may just be allowed once more to observe, that the oil or fat of animals, and the earth of bones, have always been considered as subject to absorption ; and some other parts of the body being liable to wasting, have been supposed to suffer this by absorption ; but that any solid part should totally be absorbed is a new doctrine. This use of the absorb- ents I have long been able to demonstrate, and the first hints I received of it were in the waste of the sockets of the teeth, as also in the fangs of the shedding teeth. It may be difficult at first to conceive how a part of the body can be removed by itself, but it is just as difficult to conceive how a body can form itself, which we see daily taking place ; they are both equally facts, and the knowledge of their mode of action would answer perhaps vert* little purpose ; but this I may assert, that whenever any solid part of our bodies undergoes a diminution, or is broken in upon, in consequence of any disease, it is the absorbing system which does it. When it becomes necessary that some whole living part should be removed, it is evident that nature, in order to effect this, must not only confer a new activity on the absorbents, but must throw the part to be absorbed into such a state as to yield to tins operation. This is the only animal power capable of producing such effects, and like all other operations of the machine, arises from a stimulus or an irritation, all other methods of destruction being either mechanical or chemical. The first by cutting instruments, as knives, saws, etc.; the second by caustics, metallic salts, etc. The process of ulceration is of the same general nature in all cases, but some of the causes and effects are very different from one another. The knowledge of the use of this system is but of late date, and the knowledge of its different modes of action is still later. Physiologists have laboured to account for its modes of action, and the principle of capillary tubes was at first the most general idea, because it was a fa- miliar one. But this is too confined a principle of an animal machine ; nor will it account for every kind of absorption. Capillary tubes can only attract fluids; but as these inquirers found that solids were often absorbed, such as scirrhous tumours, coagulated blood, the earth of463 THE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. bones, etc., they were driven to the necessity of supposing a solvent : this may or may not be true ; it is one of those hypotheses that can never be proved or disproved, and may for ever rest upon opinion. But my conception of this matter is, that Nature leaves as little as possible to chance, and that the whole operation of absorption is performed by an action in the mouths of the absorbents : but even under the idea of ca- pillar}' tubes, physiologists were still obliged to have recourse to the action of those vessels to carry it along after it was absorbed, and might therefore as well have carried this action to the mouths of these vessels. As we know nothing of the mode of action of the mouths of these vessels, it is impossible we can form any opinion that can be relied upon; but sis they are capable of absorbing substances in two different states, that of solidity and fluidity, it is reasonable to suppose that they have different modes of action ; for although any construction of parts that is capable of absorbing a solid may also be such as is capable of absorbing a fluid, yet I can suppose a construction only capable of absorbing a fluid, and not at all fitted for absorbing a solid, though this is not likely; and to see the propriety of this remark more forcibly, let us only con- sider the mouths of different animals, and I will venture to say that the mouths of all the different animals have not a greater variety of sub- stances to work upon than the absorbents have; and we may observe, that with all the variety of mouths in different animals, this variety is only for the purpose of adapting them to absorb solids, which admit of great variety in form, texture, etc., every one being capable of absorb- ing fluid matter, which admits of no variety. This process of the removal of parts of the body, either by interstitial or progressive absorption, answers very material purposes in the ma- chine, without w hich many local diseases could not be removed, and which, if allowed to remain, would destroy the person. It may be called in such cases the natural surgeon. It is by the progressive absorption that matter or pus, and extraneous bodies of all kinds, whether in consequence of or producing inflamma- tion and suppuration, are brought to the external surface; it is by means of this that bones exfoliate; it is this operation which separates sloughs ; it is the absorbents which are removing whole bones while the arteries aie supplying new ones; and although in these last cases of bones it arises fiom disease, yet it is somewhat similar to the modelling process of this system in the natural formation of bone ; it is this operation that removes useless parts, as the alveolar processes when the teeth drop out, or when they are removed by art; as also the fangs of the shedding teeth, which allows them to drop off; and it is by these means ulcers are formed.THE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. 4 64 It becomes a substitute in many cases for mortification, which is an- other mode of the loss of substance ; and in such cases it seems to owe its taking.place of mortification to a degree of strength or vigour supe- rior to that where mortification takes place ; for although it arises often from weakness, yet it is an action, while mortification is the loss of all action. In many cases it finishes what mortification had begun, by se- parating the mortified part. These two modes of absorption, the interstitial and the progressive, are often wisely united, or perform their purposes often in the same part which is to be removed; and this may be called the mixed, which I be- lieve takes place in most cases, as in that of extraneous bodies of all kinds coming to the skin ; also in abscesses when in soft parts. It is the second kind of interstitial absorption, the progressive and the mixed, that becomes mostly the object of surgery, although the first of the in- terstitial sometimes takes place, so as to be worthy of attention. This operation of the absorption of whole parts, like many other pro- cesses in the animal ceconomy arising from disease, would often appear to be doing mischief, by destroying parts which are of service, and where no visible good appears to arise from it; for it is this process which forms a sore called an ulcer, such as in those cases where the solids are de- stroyed upon the external surface, as in old sores of the leg breaking out anew or increasing; but in all cases it must still be referred to some ne- cessary purpose; for we may depend upon it that those parts have not the power of maintaining their ground, and it becomes a substitute for mortification; and indeed in many ulcers we shall see both ulceration and mortification going on, ulceration removing those parts that have power to resist death. §. 1. Of the remote Cause of the Absorption of the Animal itself. The remote cause of the removal of parts of the animal appears to be of various kinds, and whatever will produce the following effects will be a cause. The most simple intention or object of nature seems to be the re- moval of a useless part, as the thymus gland, membrana pupiilaris, duc- tus arteriosus, the alveoli when the teeth drop, or the crystalline humour after couching, and probably the wasting of the body from fever, either acute or hectic. These parts are removed by the absorbents, either as useless parts, or [in the latter case] in consequence of strength being un- necessary while under disease, or such as not to accord with disease*. * it might lie asked as a question, whether the waste of the constitution in disease465 THE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. Another cause is a weakness, or the want of power in the part to sup- port itself under certain irritations, which may be considered as the basis of every cause of removal of whole parts, as the absorption of calluses, cicatrices, the gums in salivation; also that arising from pressure or irritating applications, under which may be included the attachment of dead parts to a living one, all of which may be accounted for upon the same principle of parts or organs not being able to support themselves under the present evil. From the above account of the final cause of the absorption of whole parts from disease, it would appear that they are capable of being ab- sorbed from five causes. First, from parts being pressed ; secondly, from parts being considerably irritated by irritating substances ; thirdly from parts being weakened ; fourthly, from parts being rendered useless • fifthly, from parts becoming dead. The two first, for instance, parts being pressed and parts being irritated, appear to me to produce the same ir- ritation ; the third, or weakness, an irritation of its own kind; and the fourth, or parts being rendered useless, and the fifth, or parts becoming dead, may be somewhat similar. It is probable that every cause above enumerated is capable of pro- ducing every mode, or rather effect, of absorption, whether interstitial or progressive; but pressure attended with suppuration always produces the progressive, whether applied externally or internally, as in the case of abscesses. §•2. Of the Disposition of living Parts to absorb and to be absorbed. The dispositions of the two parts of the living body, which absorb and are absorbed, must be of two kinds respecting the parts, one passive and the other active. The first of these is an irritated state of the part to be absorbed, which renders it unfit to remain under such circum- stances, the action excited by this irritation being incompatible with the natural actions and the existence of the P^s, whatever these are v Inch therefore become ready for removal, or yield to it with ease. The second is the absorbents being stimulated to action by such a state of parts, so that both conspire to the same end When the part to be absorbed is a dead part, as nourishment or ex- sorbents ^ ^ the whole disposition is in the ab- 2? b°d.y beC°ming USe'eSS Whc” under Slld> leases, as may be observed the diseased state th“r J°ml’ tendon» &c‘ is diseasetl- or whether it accords better with ascd sta,e> and '"ay oven tend to a natural cure? VOL. in. 2 II4G6 TIIE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. When the immediate causes arise in consequence of pressure, it would appear that absorption takes place more readily under certain circum- tances than others, although the remote causes of them appear to be the same, and therefore there is something more than simple pres- sure. For we find that pressure from within produces ulceration or absorption much more readily than from without, for if it was pressure only, absorption then would be according to the quantity of pressure; but we find very different effects from the same quantity of pressure under the above-mentioned circumstances : for when from without, pres- sure rather stimulates than irritates, it shall give signs of strength, and produce an increase of thickening; but when from within, the same quantity of pressure will produce waste, for the first effect of the pres- sure from without is the disposition to thicken, which is rather an operation of strength ; but if it exceeds the stimulus of thickening then the pressure becomes an irritator, and the power appears to give way to it, and absorption of the parts pressed takes place, so that Nature very readily takes on those steps which are to get rid of an extraneous body, but appears not only not ready to let extraneous bodies enter the body, but endeavours to exclude them, by increasing the thickness of the parts. Many parts of our solids are more susceptible of being absorbed, espe- cially by ulceration, than others, even under the same or similar circum- stances, while the same part shall vary its susceptibility according to circumstances. The cellular and adipose membranes are very particularly susceptible of being absorbed, which is proved by muscles, tendons, ligaments, nerves, and blood-vessels being found frequently deprived of their con- necting membrane and fat, especially in abscesses, so that ulceration often takes a roundabout course to get to the skin, following the track of the cellular membrane ; and the skin itself, when the pressure is from within, is much less susceptible of ulceration than the cellular and adi- pose membrane, which retards the progress of abscesses when they are so far advanced, and also becomes the cause of the skin s hanging over spreading ulcers, which are spreading from the same cause, more espe- cially too if the part ulcerating is an original part. Ulceration never takes place on investing membranes of circumscribed cavities, excepting suppuration has taken place ; and indeed ulceration in such parts would be a sure forerunner of suppuration. New-formed parts, or such as cannot be said to constitute part of the original animal, as healed sores, calluses of bones, especially those in consequence of compound fractures, admit more readily of absorption, especially the progressive, than those parts which were originally formed.THE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. 4Q>j 2 n 2 too thaTTl 1Tbably fr°m tHe PrInCiple °f WCakneSS' and * is this sorbed adventitious new matter, as tumours, are more readily ab- . ian even thafc whlch 18 a substitute for the old. Thus we have urnours more readily absorbed than a callus of a bone, union of a ten- stitutesC'; T 7 StiH 1688 P°WerS than those which are sub- stitutes for parts originally formed. Ulceration in consequence of death in an external part takes place soonest on the external edge between the dead and the living. This is b ° 01 ?arts ’ toT we may observe that sloughs from An • \ rUT m°rtlfications- &c- aiways begin at the external edge. An internal pressure produced by an extraneous body acts equally ™ “f ! e Part’- “',d -W parTSg ,. Ug 1 ’ fr°m thls cause alone, to produce absorption of the su^ding parts equally on all sides, supposing the parts themsel absortacU Tt * * ** ^ ^ orbed but we find that one side only of the surrounding living parts is susceptible of this irritation, therefore one side only is absorbed and ** " fe sWf *■ <0 the external aurfi.ee of the hoi .o le lllr b°dieS ^ lind wiib I , °n that Slde to which the extraneous body is nearest the oXr aVlng T ****’ " producinS ^ least destruction of any of the other surrounding parts. From this cause we find abscesses L :::or t ,hrcentre °f a ^ S rface on the one side and not on the other; and whenever the lead is ce taken, it immediately goes on. But as some parts from their struc- ture are more susceptible of this irritation than others, we find that parts composed of such structure are often absorbed, although they are not in the shortest road to the skin : this structure is the cel- lular membrane, as will be taken notice of hereafter We find the same principle in the progress of tumours; for although absorption 3v7k & PreSSed' yet the interstitiai absorption only takes place on that side next the external surface, by which means the tumour is, as it were, led to the skin. From hence we find that absorption of whole parts more readily takes place to allow 1 to “ SUbSt‘nCe 10 PaM °Ut °f thC th““ “ wifi to allow ^de1[7ze r thithe slight pressure pr°duced by mattcr °n the in- feter to B nu * ?** “***' and the matter is much aster to the skin (al hough very deep) than it would by the same quan- ) f pressure applied from without; and indeed so slight a pressure S:;™“rMher tend - - - zTHE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. 4GS The reasons of this are evident: one is, a readiness in the parts to be freed from a disease already existing; the other is, a backwardness in the parts to admit a disease. This principle therefore in the animal oeconomy produces one of the most curious phenomena in the whole process of ulceration, viz. the susceptibility which the parts lying be- tween an extraneous body and the skin have to ulcerate, while all the other sides of the abscess are not irritated to ulceration ; and the neces- sity there is that it should be so must be very striking; for if ulceration went on equally on .all sides of an abscess, it must increase to a most enormous size, and too great a quantity of our solids must necessarily be destroyed. Bones, we have observed, are also subject to similar circumstances of ulceration; for whenever an abscess forms in the centre of a bone, or an internal exfoliation has taken place, the extraneous body acts upon the internal surface of the canty, and produces ulceration. If the matter or dead piece of bone is nearer one side than the other, ulceration takes place on that side only; and here too the provision of Nature in abscesses comes in, for the adhesive inflammation extends it- self on the outside in proportion as ulceration extends itself on the in- side of the cavity, and as ulceration approaches to the surface of the bone the adhesive disposition is given to the periosteum, then to the cellular membrane, &c. And what is very curious, this adhesive inflam- mation assumes the ossifying disposition, which I have called the ossific inflammation, and appears as a spreading ossification, in the same man- ner as in the callus of a simple fracture. The consequence of these two processes taking place together in bones is very singular, for the ulcerative process destroying the inside of a bone while the ossifying makes addition to its outside, the bone often increases to a prodigious size, as in cases of spina ventosa; but in the end the ulceration on the inside gets the better, and the matter makes its escape. Nature has not only made what might be called an instinctive pro- vision in the parts to remove themselves, so as to bring extraneous bodies to the skin for their exit, and thereby from this principle has guarded the deeper-seated parts, but has also guarded all passages or outlets where, from reasoning, we might suppose no great mischief could arise from bringing extraneous bodies thither; and in many cases a seeming advantage would be gained, such passages appearing to be more convenient for the exit of such matter, and likely to produce less visible mischief in procuring them. Thus a tumour in the cheek, close on the internal membrane of the mouth and some way from the skin, shall in its growth push externally.THE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. 469 especially if there is matter in it. and in time come in contact with the skin and adhere to it, while it shall have made no closer connexion with the skin of the mouth. If it should suppurate, and more especially if it be of a scrofulous kind, which is slow in its progress, it will break externally; we even see abscesses in the gums opening externally, where the matter has been obliged to go a considerable way to get to the skin. The same guard is set over the cavity of the nose : if an abscess forms in the antrum, frontal sinus, or saccus lachrymalis, all of which are nearer to the cavity of the nose than the external surface of the body, ulceration does not follow this shortest way, which would be directly into the nose, but leads the matter to the nearest external surface. I have seen an abscess in the frontal sinus first attended with great pain in the part, then with inflammation on the whole forehead, at last matter has been felt under the skin, and on being opened it has led into one or both sinuses, and almost the whole bone has exfoliated. For such an abscess the nearest passage would have been directly into the nose. Abscess m the lachrymal sac, forming what is called the fistula lachrymalis, arises also from the same cause. A curious circumstance takes place here ; but whether peculiar to this part or not, I do not yet know : besides the disposition for ulceration externally at the inner cor- ner of the eye, there is a defence set up upon the inside, so that the membrane of the nose thickens very considerably. How far a thicken- ing takes place on the inside of the nose, opposite to the antrum, in abscesses of that cavity, or how far it is a universal principle in other passages, I have not been able to learn, but I am inclined to believe it is not universal, from this principle we can see why openings made into these passages to make the matter come that way are more unsuc- cessful than reasoning (without the knowledge of this principle) would lead us to believe; the opening, therefore, should not be made on the inside, (even where we can do it,) excepting the matter is very near, or else the opening should be made very large; and probably in such cases it may be necessary to take out a piece, so as to prevent the uniting process, which is here very strong. Illustrations will be given in other passages, when treating of ulcera- tion in general tending to the external surface. §• 3. Of Interstitial Absorption. Interstitial absorption, I observed, was of two kinds with respect to effect, or rather had two stages. The firstwas where it took place only in a part, as in the wasting of a limb in consequence of its being ren-470 THE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. dered useless, whether from disease in a joint, a broken tendon, or the dividing of a nerve, whereby its influence is cut off; or where it takes place in the whole body in consequence of some disease, as in acute fever, hectic fever, diabetes, atrophy, or the like. The second is the absorption of a whole part, where not a vestige is left. This [latter] would seem to be of two kinds : one where it is only in consequence of another disease, and is a necessary and useful effect of that disease, as assisting in bringing parts to the surface ; but the other appears to arise from a disease in the part itself, as the total decay of the alveoli, with- out any disease in the teeth or gums, which however in the end suffer, as also the total wasting of a testicle, the absorption of a callus, &c. It is the first of these two kinds which is most to my present purpose, and deserves our particular attention. It takes place in a thousand instances; we find it gradually taking place in the part of the body which happens to lie between encysted tumours and the external surface, when they are making their way to the skin. This absorption is commonly slow' in its progress, so much so as even to make the ultimate effect, although considerable, not sensible till a certain length of time has elapsed. This mode of removing parts appears to arise from pressure, as in the former; but here some principles are reversed. The contents of an en- cysted tumour do not give the stimulus of removal to that side of the cyst nearest to the external surface, as happens in an abscess, so as to produce a removal of the surface pressed by its contents, which would be the progressive ulceration, as in our first division; but the tumour gives the stimulus to the sound parts, between it and the skin, and an absorption of those parts takes place, similar to that which I suppose takes place in the removal of calluses of bones from weakness. We find whenever an encysted tumour is formed in the cellular membrane, it in time makes its approaches towards the skin, by the cellular mem- brane and other parts between it and the skin being absorbed, so that the whole substance between the cyst and skin becomes thinner and thinner, till the cyst and the external skin meet or come in contact, and then inflammation begins to take place; for as the parts are now soon to be exposed, inflammation takes place to produce a quicker absorption, which borders often upon ulceration. The mode of action in this last case may be, in one respect, very similar to the foregoing solid tumour, for besides the interstitial absorption, the cyst may be looked upon as a tumour acting upon or stimulating the parts between it and the skin; therefore the tumour causes absorption of the contiguous cellular mem- brane upon which it presses. This process of interstitial absorption of parts is very evident, even in common abscess ; and where a progressive absorption is going on, it is assisted by this.THE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. 471 I have already observed that the interstitial absorption is not attended with, nor does it produce, suppuration. §.4. Of the Progressive Absorption. The first or principal mode of this action is the removing of those surfaces that are immediately contiguous to the irritating causes, which is an absorption of necessity. These causes, I have observed, are of three kinds : one, pressure; another, irritating substances ; and the third, considerable inflammation in a weak part, especially those new-formed parts that become a substitute for the old. Absorption from pressure is the removal of the part pressed, which may arise from a number of causes. There are tumours which, by pressing upon neighbouring parts, produce it; the pressure of the blood in aneurisms produces it, etc.; also that surface of an abscess, or any other extraneous body which is nearest the external surface*1; or the ulceration of that part of the surface of the body which is in contact with a body pressing, as the buttocks or hips of those who lie long upon their backs; the heels of many people who lie long in the same position, as is the case with those who are under the cure of a fracture of the leg, in which case it seems to be a substitute for mortification, and is rather a proof of the strength of the patient; for if very weak constitutionally, the same parts cer- tainly mortify ; as also the constant pressure of chains on the legs of prisoners, and harness on the breasts of horses. 1 he second of these causes of absorption is the action of irritating substances, such as the tears passing constantly over the cheeks; as also many irritating medicines, producing too much action, and probably at the same time weakeuing the parts. The third is the formation of an ulcer or sore on a surface, in consequence of some disease, which has been the cause of inflammation. Bones are subject to the same effect from pressure as the soft parts, as in consequence of aneurisms; as also from the pressure from tumours : likewise in cases of the spina ventosa, where in some there is nothing to be found in the cavity of the swelling but blood coagulated, in others a grumous or curdly substance. This blood or curdly substance increasing, continues the pressure, and the in- side of the bone is in time absorbed. I have already observed that the progressive absorption is divisible into two kinds; one without suppuration, the other with. I shall now » [“ also that surface of an abscess which is in contact with the pus, or any other ex- traneous body.”—Original text, j472 THE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. observe that the absorption which does not produce suppuration may take place either from pressure made by sound parts upon diseased parts, or by diseased upon sound parts; as the effect that the pressure of the coagulated blood has in aneurisms, the moving blood in the same, which is a sound part, contained in diseased arteries not capable of supporting the pressure of the moving blood ; as also many tumours, which are dis- eased parts, pressing upon natural sound parts ; and these diseased parts are simply endowed with life, which I apprehend makes some difference in the effects respecting the formation of pus; also uncommon pressure made by such substances as are not endowed with any irritating quality sufficient to produce the suppurative inflammation, as a piece of glass, a lead bullet, etc., all of which I shall nowr more fully explain. Of this first division, viz. from pressure without suppuration, we have several instances, as in aneurisms, especially w'hen they are in the aorta, and principally at the curve ; and when arrived at a considerable size, so as to press against the surrounding parts, particularly against the back- bone, as also against the sternum; all of which will be according to the situation of the aneurism : we find in such cases, that from the dilatation of the artery (which arises from the force of the heart) the artery is pressed against those bones, and that the substance of the artery at the part pressed is taken into the constitution. This absorption begins at the external surface of the artery, where it comes in contact with the bone, and continues there till the whole artery is absorbed; then the bone itself comes in contact with the circulating blood, and not being naturally intended to be washed by moving blood, the bone or bones are also absorbed from this pressure and motion of the blood against them. The adhesive or strengthening disposition takes place in the surrounding parts, and is of great service here, as it unites the circum- ference of the unabsorbed part of the artery to the surrounding parts; as also the cellular membrane beyond the surface of absorption (when in soft parts), similar to the preceding adhesive inflammation going be- fore ulceration in an abscess ; but it is here much stronger, for strength is wanted as well as adhesion while it is dilating; so that a cavity of some strength for the moving blood is always kept entire, and no extra- vasation can take place, nor can the parts readily give way. Another instance of this absorption occurs in those cases where living tumours make their way to the skin without the formation of an abscess. I once saw a remarkable instance of this in a Highland soldier in the Dutch service, who had a solid tumour formed, either in the substance of the brain, or, what is more probable, upon it, viz. in the pia-matcr, for it seemed to be covered by that membrane ; the tumour was oblong, above an inch thick, and two or more inches long; it was sunk near its473 THE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. whole length into the brain, seemingly by the simple effects of pressure ; but the outer end of it, by pressing against the dura mater, had produced the absorbing disposition in that membrane, so that this membrane was entirely gone at that part. The same irritation from pressure had been given to the skull, which also was absorbed at this part; after which the same disposition was continued on to the scalp. As these respective parts gave way, the tumour was pushed further and further out, so that its outer end came to be in this new passage the absorbents were making for it in the scalp, by which it probably would have been discharged in time if the man had lived; but it was so connected with the vital parts that the man died before the parts could relieve themselves. While all these exterior parts were in a state of absorption, the internal parts which pressed upon the inner end of the tumour, and which pressure was suf- ficient to push it out, did not in the least \dcerate; nor did the tumour itself, which was pressed upon all sides, in the least give way in its sub- stance. No matter was to be observed here from either the dura mater, the unconnected edge of the bones of the skull, nor from that part of the scalp which had given way ; and perhaps the reason was, the tumour being a living part, and not an extraneous one. The general effect was, however, similar to the progress of an abscess, insomuch that it was on that side nearest to the external surface of the body that the irritation for absorption took place. This first species of the absorption of whole parts is seldom or never attended with pain. Its progress is so very slow as to keep pace with our sensations, and in many cases it is not even attended with inflam- mation. I believe that this absorption seldom if ever affects the constitution, although in some cases it takes its rise from affections of the constitution, as in the cases of the absorption of callus. §.5. Of Absorption attended with Suppuration, which I have called Ulceration. I shall now give an account of that part of the actions of the absorb- ing system which I call ulceration, and which is the second of our first division respecting the formation of pus, viz. that which is connected \\ ith the formation of that fluid, being either a consequence of it, or producing it, and is that which in all cases constitutes an ulcer. It is this which principally constitutes the progressive absorption*. * I have given it the term ulceration, because ulcer is a word in use to express a sore, and it is by this process that many ulcers are formed. The operations produced474 THK CLCMATIVE INFUMM.< Tte difiis from tie fornvue ut war coni ***■*■ k either take? place La cceueqnrace of m F«* and uVc the pos acts a? aa extraneous bodv pressare: or abwrptx* attack? external ttrim *■*»<•* <* •tfaknes? in which case so-'pnrabon. *t follow, let the cause cf that breach or kas af * ah* la order to produce ulceration hum present?. I that it require? a mack greater pressure tresa with aad whea it is frost within, the ulceration is quit skh» than when deep or far from it; the nearer it m readily in£ jumaaoe takes place: and I have also Math* ahhoogh it takes phee in deep-seated p nerer extends deeper, hot approaches towards the as ir Sans matron seems to precede, and is essentia see the reason why it should take place soccer if po on £n*cr the nearer it comes to it The process of ulceration which brar? Batter u '» mat whoCy the absorption of the inner sendee rtf is an interior or iasterstithd absorption of the par is&er surface of the abscess and the skin, similar fc rested tscaonrs, as has been described. And best has* already observed, these is a nduii( and clear on between the abscess and the skin, aad at those matter appear? to point. This process of ulceration, or absorption with m constantly attended by tn^anantiru ; bat it cannot inflimnatiim, but a couecqucut. whkb (i»r ri» U ■ufenundaon. It is ahsay? perteded by the adhem perhaps it is amply that m^amaaatKm which after* adVrinus prodaced answering very wise pnrpuacs ; besbe iadaaaamtiun ha* {needed the mppnrube, pest* surrounding the abscess arc nested, yet if thi has not extended to the akin, where the ■ harem or iihtpwl, in snch a case, wherever the nkrrstasn ha the aheaNS, there the natter wtC come iak am rrmsrpmrt of whrrh will he that the inid or notr into the cellular meahenne nf the part, aad frin tt<ATI VE INFLAMMATION*. 475 suppuration; but to prevent this effect, the be lead of ulceration. There are many other xrrate on surfaces, where we do not see the he matter formed can be and is discharged ay old sores, the inside of the stomach and surfaces above mentioned ; which do not inflammation, under some circumstances s effect would appear to arise from the vio- i parts being so weakened, either by it, or y can hardly support themselves; for we whole force of the mercury has been de- have become weakened by long and violent of the mouth will ulcerate; also, from the the gums will ulcerate in bad scurries; th inflammation, or violence of action, ap- lse in such cases. , as above described, is to produce first the h parts as will readily admit of it, and if ct, the suppurative takes place, and then id the matter already formed to the skin, f suppuration in such parts is the growth ms, which are to repair the loss the parts done ; but in all outlets, where the adbe- tation first only produces the suppurative urther, the adhesive will take place, as has ch parts the matter formed has an outlet, d as in such cases no parts are destroyed, riotis circumstance atteiuiin^ ulceration, hich it seems to absorb every other sub- s the body itself; at least this appears to x after inoculation, as also the venereal n the absorbents at the time being in the hey promiscuously absorb what is applied -’*• In such cases it might be a question »dy which they do absorb at part, as in the cancer. •a in the smallpox aud venereal disease. I, it must appear that any irritation which !y the natural operation* of any one pan,476 TIIE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. and the effect of which is so long continued as to oblige the parts to act for their own relief, produces in some parts, first the adhesive inflam- mation ; and if the cause be increased, or continue still longer, the sup- purative state takes place, and all the other consequences, as ulceration; or if in the other parts, as secreting surfaces, then the suppurative takes place immediately, and if too violent, the adhesive will succeed ; or if parts are very much weakened the ulcerative will immediately succeed the adhesive, and then suppuration will he the consequence. This species of ulceration in general gives considerable pain, which pain is commonly distinguished by the name of soreness; this is the sensation arising from cutting with an instrument, which operation is very similar to ulceration; but this pain does not attend all ulcerations, for there are some of a specific kind which give little or no pain, such as the scrofula; but even in this disease, when the ulceration proceeds pretty fast, it gives often considerable pain ; therefore the pain may be in some degree proportioned to the quickness of its operation. The greatest pain which in general attends this operation arises from those ulcerations which are formed for the purpose of bringing the matter of an abscess to the skin; as also where ulceration begins upon a sur- face, or is increasing a sore. Whether the increase of pain arises from the ulcerative inflammation singly, or from the adhesive and ulcerative going on together in the same point, is not easily determined; but in some cases these three are pretty rapid in their progress, and it is more than probable that the pain arises from all these causes. In those cases where ulceration is employed in separating a dead part, such as sloughing, exfoliation, etc., it is seldom attended with pain ; per- haps it may not be easy to assign a cause for this. I he effects that ulceration has upon the constitution I have men- tioned, with the effects that other local complaints have upon it. It is easy to distinguish between a sore that is ulcerating, and one which is standing still, or granulating. The ulcerating sore is made up of little cavities or hollows, and the edge of the skin is scolloped or notched, is thin, turned a little out, and overhangs more or less the sore. 1 he sore is always foul, being probably composed of parts not completely absorbed, and discharges a thin matter. But when the ulceration stops, the edge of the skin becomes regular, smooth, a little rounded or turned in, and of a purple colour, covered with a semi-trans- parent white.THE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. 477 §. G. Of the Relaxing Process. Besides these two modes of removing whole parts, acting singly or together, there is an operation totally distinct from either, and this is a relaxing and elongating process carried on between the abscess and the skin, and at those parts only where the matter appears to point. It is possible that this relaxing, elongating, or weakening process may arise in some degree from the absorption of the interior parts ; but there is certainly something more, for the skin that covers an abscess is always looser than a part that gives way from mere mechanical distention, ex- cepting the increase of the abscess is very rapid. That parts relax or elongate without mechanical force, but from par- ticular stimuli, is evident in the female parts of generation just before the birth of the foetus : they become relaxed prior to any pressure. The old women in the country can tell when a hen is going to lay, from the parts becoming loose about the anus. That this relaxing process takes place between an abscess and the skin is evident in all cases, but was more demonstratively so in the fol- lowing case than commonly can be observed, where an increase of sur- face takes place without the visible loss of substance, for here both could be exactly ascertained; and, indeed, no abscess could swell outwards, excepting by distention, without it. In the following case this process was particularly evident. A lad about thirteen years of age was attacked with a violent inflam- mation in his belly, without any apparent cause. The usual means were used, but without effect. His belly began to swell in a few days after the attack, and his skin became cold and clammy, especially his feet and hands. Once when he made water it was transparent like spring water, with a little cloud of mucus. In several places of the belly there appeared a pointing, as if from matter; one of those, which was just below the sternum, became pretty large, and discoloured with a red tint. Although there was not any undulation or perfect fluctuation (there not being fluid enough for such a feel) yet it was plain there was a fluid, and most probably from the pointings, it was matter in conse- quence of inflammation, and was producing ulceration on the inside ot the abdomen for its exit; therefore it was thought advisable, as early as possible, to open the belly at one of those parts. I made a small opening into the pointing part, just below the sternum, hardly an inch long : when I was performing the operation, I saw plainly the head of the rectus muscle, which I cut through in the direction of its fibres. 1'herc was immediately discharged by this wound about two or three quarts of a thin bloody matter. The swelling of the abdomen subsided478 THE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. of course; his pulse began to rise and become more full and soft; and his extremities became warmer; he was ordered bark, etc. but he lived only about sixty hours after the operation. On opening his abdomen after death we found little or no matter ly- ing loose; all had made its escape through the wound. The whole in- testines, stomach, and liver were united by a very thick covering of the coagulating lymph, which also passed into all the interstices between them, by which means they were all united into one mass: the liver also adhered to the diaphragm, but none of the viscera adhered to the inside of the belly on its fore part, for there the matter had given the stimulus for ulceration, which prevents all adhesions. The process of ulceration had gone on so far as to have destroyed the whole of the pe- ritonaeum on the fore part of the abdomen, and the transversales and recti muscles were cleanly dissected on their inside. The tendons of the la- teral muscles that pass behind the heads of the recti were in rags, partly gone, and partly in the form of a slough. From this view of the case we must see how Nature had guarded all the most essential parts. In the time of the adhesive stage she had co\ ered all the intestines with a coat of coagulating lymph, so as to guard them; and this probably upon two principles, one from their being canals, and therefore loth to admit of penetration in that way; the other from their being more internal than the parietes of the abdo- men ; one side is therefore thickened for their defence, while the other is thinned for the relief of the part. Here the cavity of the abdomen had assumed all the properties of an abscess, but it was so connected with the vital parts, which also suffered much in the inflammation, that the patient could not support the ne- cessary processes towards what would be called a radical cure in many other parts ; and indeed, considering the mischief done to the abdomen and its viscera, it is astonishing he lived so long. The most curious circumstance that happened was the appearance of pointing in several places; for why one part of the abdomen should have pointed more than another is not easily accounted for, since every part of the anterior portion was nearly equally thin, each part was equally involved in the abscess, and the ulceration had not yet begun with any of the muscles. To account for this, let us suppose that one, two, or three parts (by some accident) were more susceptible of the ulcerative stimulus than the others, and that the parts were ready to give way; but although these parts which were pointing were the places where ulceration would have gone on brisker, yet it had not proceeded further here than in any other part, it had only gone through the peritoneum and the tendons of the broad muscles, and the recti muscles were soundTHE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. 479 and perfect at the place where I made the opening, which was the most protuberant of any; therefore this pointing did not appear to arise from weakness or thinness of this part; and even supposing that the point- ing was an effect of weakness, it would imply a great deal of pressure on the inside, (which at least was not the case here,) and simple pres- sure, although a hundred times greater, which we often see take place in dropsies, would not produce a pointing if not attended with some specific power®. If pressure then was not sufficient to produce this effect in the pre- sent case, and if the parts which pointed were as mechanically firm as at any other, to what other cause can we attribute the distention of this part, but to the weakening, elongating, and relaxing process which I have already described ? This observation of the relaxing process going on in the substance of the parts where it points is verified in a thousand instances. Suppose a large abscess in the thigh, only covered by the skin and adipose mem- brane, which shall go on for months without producing ulceration, and of course not point anywhere, but shall be a smooth, even, and uniform surface; let it receive the stimulus of ulceration in any one part, that * [Having previously expressed my doubts as to the existence of any special law de- termining the course of foreign bodies to the surface (p. 300, note), I may here be permitted to express the same doubts respecting abscesses. “ An internal pressure,” Mr. Hunter observes, p. 467, “produced by an extraneous body, acts equally on every side of the surrounding parts, and therefore every part being pressed alike, ought, from this cause alone, to produce absorption of the surrounding parts equally on all sides,” &c. A fallacy, however, is involved in this statement, arising from the omission of an important fact, viz. the resiliency or natural tonicity of the skin, which, being put still further on the stretch by the intrusion of a foreign body, reacts, so as to give a determi- nate direction to the force. In most cases this direction will be outwardly and inwardly, but inwardly the parts are not disposed to yield, and therefore in the same proportion as the external parts are more yielding than the internal, will there be an additional cause to determine the absorption in that direction; for I suppose it will not be doubted that extension and pressure are both powerful determining causes of inflammation and ulceration. With regard to abscesses, other mechanical causes of a tendency to the surface will come into operation besides the greater extensibility of parts in that direction. For by the bulging thus originally produced, the area of the upper surface of the cavity will be greater, even from the first, than that of the base : and as fluids under pressure act equally on equal areas, the whole amount of pressure outwards will be increased in proportion to the local augmentation of area. This preponderance of pressure must produce a greater degree of stretching and a more active ulcerative absorption here than elsewhere; and the cause in question will grow more and more effective as the promi- nence which it contributes to produce is augmented,—so that the pointing of the ab- scess will proceed with a constantly accelerated rapidity. These combined causes will manifestly be all in the fullest operation at the middle point of the outer surface of the cavity; here the cavities will be most stretched, be- cause the least supported; here the vital processes which produce attenuation will be480 THE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. part will immediately begin to point, although it may be thicker there than at some other parts of the same abscess. I he pressure necessary to allow extraneous matter to make its escape ctive because most stimulated; and it is in this situation that, cteteris paribus, the P lence is always observed to be most considerable, and that the abscess naturally C The annexed diagrams are intended to represent sections of an abscess in three se- veral degrees of its progress towards the surface; and will serve to illustrate the sug- gestions that have been thrown out as to the causes of the outward tendency of the contained fluid. It will be seen that the surface of the cavity towards the skin (6, bb, b b b), progressively increases in area at a quicker rate than the base (a, aa, ana). I his view I think is confirmed by the erratic course of internal abscesses, which only burrow in those directions in which the extensibility is greatest, as well as by the case of peritoneal abscess cited in the text, and that of chronic abscesses generally ; for as the superficies of an abscess becomes more extended, and as the disposition to absorption becomes less active, so of course will the disposition to acumination become less evident. In dropsies both these causes combine to prevent pointing; for here there is no disposition to progressive absorption arising from inflammation, and no dispo- sition to concentrate the acting force arising from inequality of extension. The discovery of final causes appears to have been a principal object in all Mr. Hun- ter’s investigations, and it must be confessed that few have ever been equally successful in this branch of inquiry. It was, however, the weakness as well as the strength of Hunter’s physiology, as it often led him to substitute the final for the efficient causes of phenomena, of which, it I am not mistaken, several examples might be adduced from the present chapter. As the above explanation is opposed to the received opinions of the profession, I offer it with much diffidence. As an instance of intelligent design, extending even to a pro- vision for the accidental lesions of the frame, few examples are more beautiful than that of the adhesive inflammation, and especially of the approach of foreign bodies to the surface by progressive absorption ; but nothing is detracted from the value of these facts by showing that mechanical causes are concerned in their operation.]481 THE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. noctl not be great; for in many abscesses which have been opened, or have opened ot themselves, but not at the most depending part, so that the matter is allowed to stagnate at the lower part of the cavity, making a very slight pressure, we find that this alone is sufficient to produce ulceration in that part, and of course a fresh opening is produced, more especially if near the skin. This we see often take place in abscesses of milk breasts, when the opening is not at a depending part, and appears to be common in the fistula in ano ; for it frequently happens that the ulceration goes on at first towards the gut; but before this has taken place, ulceration has gone on some way by the side of it, to bring the matter externally, which weight of matter is alone sufficient to continue the same process. §. /. Of the Intention of Absorption of the Body in Disease. This, like everything else in Nature, involves in it two consequences, the one beneficial, the other hurtful, both of which this has in a consi- derable degree; however, if we understood thoroughly all the remote causes, we should probably see its utility in every case, and that these efleets, however bad in appearance, yet are necessary, and of course in the end salutary. The use arising from what may be called the natural absorption of parts, such as the forming or modelling process, as also the absorption of parts which have become unfit for the new mode of life, as the absorption of the thymus gland, &c„ is involved in its ne- cessity, and belongs to the natural history of the animal; but that ari- sing from disease is directly to the present purpose. In the history I have just given, its use must, I apprehend, be evident; for we plainly see, in each mode of absorption, it often produces very salutary effects; and we may say that, although it often arises from disease, yet its opera- tions and effects are often not at all a disease; and probably in those cases where we cannot assign a cause, as in wasting of parts, atrophy, &c., yet it is most probable that its use is considerable. It is likely that under such a disease, or state of body or parts, it would be hurtful to have them full and strong; where it produces a total waste of a part its utility is pro- bably not so evident; but in the progressive absorption, where it is leading bodies externally, or in consequence of suppuration, where it is bringing matter externally, its use is plain ; or even in the formation of an ulcer, or the spreading of an ulcer, its use may be considerable. I have formerly called it the natural surgeon; and where it can do its business it is in most cases preferable to art: this is so evident in many cases that it has been a constant practice to attempt to promote it in vox. nr. 2 iTIIE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. 482 bringing abscesses to the surface, in the exfoliation of bone, &c., and although not accounted for upon the principle of absorption, yet the effect was visible, and its use allowed. §. 8. The Modes of promoting Absorption. The history that was given of the causes of absorption in some de- gree explains the modes of promoting it; but as there were some natu- ral causes which we cannot imitate, it is principally those that can be rendered useful that we are to take notice of in this place. To promote absorption of the body itself is no difficult operation : it is only to lessen the supply and increase the waste, which last is often done by medicine, or to take such things as will render the supply less efficacious, as vinegar or soap; but probably these act principally on the fat. To promote absorption of diseased parts, or parts increased, or parts newly formed is not so easy a task, although the latter may be the most easy of the whole, for I have asserted that newly formed parts are weaker in their living powers than the originally formed parts. This in some degree gives us a hint; for if we have a mode of producing a waste of the whole original body, under this general waste, new-formed parts must suffer in a degree proportional to their weakness, and therefore will suffer a diminution in the same proportion; but this is too often not sufficient, or at least what would be sufficient for the disease would be too great for the constitution to bear ; however, we find in particular cases that this practice has some effect. Probably the best debilitating medicine is mercury, and it probably may act in more ways than one. It may promote absorption from a peculiar stimulus, producing neces- sity, or a state under which the parts cannot exist. Electricity and most other stimulants probably act in the same manner, for we find that violent inflammation is often a cause. Death in a part is sure to pro- mote absorption, in order to produce a separation of the dead parts ; and 'we even find that a part being diseased gives a tendency to separation, and only requires a considerable inflammation to promote it, such as warts coming away in consequence of inflammation. A diseased part has such power of giving the proper stimulus to the adjacent sound part, that if injured, or rendered dead in part by the application of a caustic for instance, the sound part underneath will begin to relax, and show more distinctly the limits or boundaries of the disease; so that a sepa- ration of the diseased parts begins to take place, although the caustic has not reached nearly so far, and may give us an intimation of the ex- tent of the disease which we could not get before. It is in some mea-THE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. 4S3 2 i 2 sure upon this principle that arsenic removes tumours, which extend beyond the immediate effect of the medicine". Pressure is one of the causes of absorption in general, particularly the progressive, which in the resolution of parts is not the mode wanted; but it also assists in producing the interstitial; and if it could be made to produce the second of the interstitial, viz. absorption of the whole, as in the total decay of the thymus gland, then it would be sufficient in those cases where it could be applied. But the pressure must be applied with great care, for too much will either- thicken or ulcerate, which last may be a mode of absorption we do not want. However, these effects " ill happen according to circumstances ; for I have an idea that entirely new-formed parts, as tumours, will not be made to thicken by pressure, and therefore may be pressed with all the force the natural surrounding parts will allowr. On the other hand there are many cases wliere we would wish to prevent absorption ; but when this is the case we should be certain that the part which was to have been absorbed is such as can be rendered useful afterwards, of which I have my doubts in many cases. §. 9. Illustrations of Ulceration. Now that I have been endeavouring to give ideas of these effects of inflammation, viz. adhesion, suppuration, and ulceration, let me next mention some cases which frequently occur, as illustrations, which will give a perfect idea of these three inflammations; and, for the clearer understanding them, I shall illustrate them upon the inflammation, sup- puration, and ulceration of the large circumscribed cavities. For instance, an inflammation attacks the external coat of an intestine : the first stage of this inflammation produces adhesions between it and the peritoneum lining the abdominal muscles; if the inflammation does not stop at this stage, an abscess is formed in the middle of these adhesions, and the matter acts as an extraneous body; the abscess increasing in size from the accumulation of matter, a mechanical pressure is kept up, which ir- ritates, and the side next the skin is only susceptible of the irritation: this irritation not destroying the disposition to form matter, suppuration is still continued, and the ulcerative inflammation takes place. 11 suppuration began in more parts of the adhesions than one, they are commonly united into one abscess; an absorption of the parts bc- [Yet as the irritation cannot fail but extend beyond the immediate effect, it is pro- bable that these adventitious parts are thrown off" in consequence of their not being able to support life under the inflammation which succeeds.]THE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. 484 tween the abscess and the skin takes place, and the matter is led on to the external surface of the body, where it is at last discharged. If the disposition for ulceration was equal on every side of the abscess, it must open into the intestine, which is seldom the case, although it sometimes does ; for the same precautions are not taken here as in many other situations; for in some others, as in the nose, in the case of an abscess of the lachrymal sac, the passage is thickened towards the nose. In the case above described, however, the abdominal muscles, fat, and skin are removed, rather than the coats of the intestine. Cases of this kind have come under my own observation. In these cases if adhesions had not preceded ulceration, the matter must have been diffused over the whole cavity of the belly ; if the ad- hesive inflammation had not likewise gone before the ulceration in the abdominal muscles, etc., the matter would have found a free passage from the abscess into the cellular membrane of the abdomen, as soon as the ulceration had got through the first adhesions, as is often the case in erysipelatous suppurations. Abscesses between the lungs and the pleura, in the liver, gall-bladder, etc. rise to the surface from the same cause; also in lumbar abscesses, where one would at first imagine the readiest place of opening would he the cavity of the abdomen, or gut; the parts nearest to the skin are removed, and the matter passes out that way : however, in abscesses so very deep, it does not always happen that one side only is susceptible of the irritation, and we shall find that the matter is taking different courses. Abscesses in the substance of the lungs sometimes differ from the above described, for they sometimes open into the air-cells : this occurs because the adhesive inflammation finds it difficult to unite the air-cells, and branches of the trachea, (as was described in treating of that inflam- mation,) and also because in the substance of the lungs, it may be difficult to say where it can take a lead externally, from which, probably, the air-cells become similar to an external surface, and then ulceration takes place on that side of the abscess which is nearest to the cells; therefore we find that the matter gets very readily into the air-cells, and from thence into the trachea. That the air-cells do not take on the adhesive state is evident in most abscesses in this part; for we find in most of these cases that the air- cells are exposed, as also the branches of the trachea; and the parts of the lungs which compose this abscess have not the firmness and solidity which the adhesive inflammation generally produces in those parts where it tiikes place. Thus too we find it going on in large abscesses, even after they haveTHE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. 485 been opened, but are so situated or circumstanced as to have some part of the abscess on that side immediately under the skin pressed by some other part of the body which lies underneath. For instance, when a large abscess forms on the outer and upper part of the thigh, oppo- site the great trochanter, which is a very common complaint, and an opening is made into it, or it bursts below or on the side of that bone, but not directly opposite to the trochanter itself, in such cases it fre- quently happens that the pressure of the trochanter on the inside of the abscess, viz. the cellular and adipose membrane and the skin covering the trochanter, that this pressure produces ulceration of these parts; which process is continued on through the skin, and makes a second opening directly upon the trochanter. It is curious to remark how these processes of nature fulfil their ap- pointed purposes, and go on no further; for any young flesh, or granu- lations, which may have formed, upon the trochanter, which very often happens before this ulceration is completed, yet these do not ulcerate, although the pressure was as great or greater upon them than it was upon the parts which gave way. This is upon the principle that pressure from without hits not the same effect as from within. rIhe fistula laehrymalis is another strong proof of ulceration only taking place towards the external surface, and securing the deeper-seated parts; as also the ulceration in consequence of matter in the frontal sinuses. An effect of the same kind we have observed in milk-breasts. In these cases the suppuration commonly begins in many distinct portions of the inflamed parts, so that it is not one large circumscribed abscess, but many separate sinuses are formed, all of which generally communi- cate : now it usually happens, that only one of these points externally; which being either opened or allowed to break, the whole of the matter is to be discharged this way ; but it frequently happens that the matter does not find a ready outlet by this opening, and then one or more of these different sinuses make distinct openings for themselves; which shows how very easily the slight pressure of such a trifling confinement of matter can produce the ulcerative inflammation. Ulceration is there- fore no more than an operation of nature to remove parts out of the way of all such pressure as the parts cannot support; and accordingly it begins where the greatest pressure is felt, joined with the nature°of the pints and its vicinity to the skin. It is curious to observe that the ulcerative process has no power over the cuticle, so that when the matter has got to that part it stops, and cannot make its way through till the cuticle bursts by distention ; but486 THE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. in general the cuticle is so thin as to give but very little trouble*: how- ever, in many places it is so thick as to be the cause of very trouble- some consequences. Thus far I have considered ulceration as arising from visible irrita- tions, joined with a susceptibility of the parts for such particular irri- tation ; but besides those above described, we often have instances of ulceration taking place from a disposition in a part, and where perhaps no reason can be assigned but weakness in the part. I observed before, that some parts of the body were more susceptible of ulceration than others. I then spoke of original parts; but I now remark that newly- formed parts are much more susceptible of ulceration than the original; such as cicatrices, granulations, calluses, etc., for we find this disposition often taking place in old cicatrices from very slight causes, such as ir- regularity in the way of life or violent exercise, which is seen every day in our hospitals, where the parts seem incapable of supporting them- * This is the reason why many abscesses in the palms of the hands, soles of the feel, fore part of the fingers, and about the nails, commonly called whitloes, &c., more espe- cially in working people, give so much pain.in the time of inflammation, and are so long in breaking, even after the matter has got through the cutis to the cuticle; the thick- ness of the cuticle, as also the rigidity of the nail, acting in those cases like a tight ban- dage, which does not allow them to swell or give way to the extravasation; for in the cuticle there is not the relaxing power, which adds considerably to the pain arising from the inflammation; hut when the abscess has reached to this thick cuticle it has no power of irritation, and therefore acts only by distention; and this is in most cases so consi- derable, as to produce a separation of the cuticle from the cutis for a considerable way round the abscess ; for I observed, when on inflammation, that it commonly produced a separation of the cuticle ; all of which circumstances taken together, make these com- plaints much more painful than a similar-sized abscess in any other soft part. The ap- plication of poultices in these cases is of more benefit than in any other, because here they can act mechanically, viz. the moisture being imbibed by the cuticle, as in a sponge, and thereby softening the cuticle, by which means it becomes larger in its dimensions and less durable in its texture. These cases should be opened as soon as possible, to avoid the pain arising from distention and the separation of the cuticle; when it is conceived it means to point at any one part, paring off the thick cuticle near the cutis, allows tile matter to make its escape more readily, when it has got through the cutis. There is a circumstance which almost always attends the opening such an ab- scess, viz. the soft parts underneath pusli out through the opening in the cuticle, like a fungus, which when irritated from any accident, gives a greater idea of soreness perhaps than any other morbid part of the machine ever does: this is owing to the sur- rounding belts of cuticle not having given way to the increase of the parts underneath, by which means they are squeezed out of this small opening, like paint out of a bladder. It is a common practice to eat this down by escharotics, as if it was a diseased fungus ; but this additional pain is very unnecessary, as the destroying a part which has only escaped from pressure, cannot in the least affect that which is within: and by simply poulticing till the inflammation, and of course the tumefaction, subside, these protruded parts are gradually drawn into their original situations.487 THE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. selves. Remarkable instances of this are recorded in Anson’s Voyages, where the habit was so much debilitated as to allow all the old sores to ulcerate, or break out anew: the calluses were absorbed and taken into the circulation ; and we also find that all these parts perform the operation of sloughing when dead, much sooner than original parts. Now it is evident, in those cases mentioned in Anson’s Voyages, that the whole frame of body was weakened by the hardships suffered in this expedition; and that the young or new-formed substances would suffer in a greater degree, arising from their being less firm and fixed than that which had been an original formation, and subsisted from the first; and as no repaired parts are endowed with the powers of action or re- sistance equal to an original part, it is no wonder that this new flesh, sharing in the general debility, became incapable of supporting its texture: perhaps a very sense of this debility proved an irritation, or the cause of that irritation which produced the absorption of parts; how- ever that may be, it is a general fact that parts which are not origi- nally formed, commonly give way soonest in depravations of the habit: in like circumstances also old sores that are healing, will break out, spread, and undo, in twenty-four hours, as much of the parts as had been healing in so many weeks. All these observations tend to prove that new-formed parts are not able to resist the power of many diseases, and to support themselves under so many shocks, as parts originally formed; which will be still further illustrated in treating of the power of absorption. I observed that, although a part is losing ground or ulcerating, yet it continues suppurating; for while a matter-forming surface is ulcerating, (whether an original-formed part of the body, such as most abscesses, or a new-formed substance, such as granulations,) we find that it still secretes pus. In such cases the adhesive inflammation proceeds very ra- pidly, and would seem to prepare the parts as it goes.for immediate suppuration, the moment they are exposed.4S8 GRANULATIONS. CHAPTER VII. GRANULATIONS. We come now to trace the operations of Nature in bringing parts whose disposition, action, and structure had been preternaturally altered, either by accident or diseased dispositions, as nearly as possible to their original state. In doing this we are to consider the constitution and the parts as free from disease, because all actions which tend to the re- storation of parts are salutary, the animal powers being entirely em- ployed in repairing the loss and the injury sustained both from the cause, and arising from the course of the immediate effects, viz. in- flammation, suppuration, and ulceration: now such operations cannot certainly be looked upon as morbid. Nature having carried these operations for reparation so far as the formation of pus, she, in such cases, endeavours immediately to set about the next order of actions, which is the formation of new matter, upon such suppurating surfaces as naturally admit of it, viz. where there has been a breach of solids; so that we find following and going hand in hand with suppuration, the formation of new solids, which constitute the common surfaces of a sore. This process is called granulating, or incarnation; and the substance formed is called granulation. Granulations have, I believe, been generally supposed to be a conse- quence of, or always an attendant on, suppuration; but the formation of granulations is not confined to a breach of solids where the parts have been allowed to suppurate, either from accident or a breach of the solids in consequence of an abscess; but it takes place under other circum- stances ; for instance, when the first and second bond of union has failed, as in simple fractures, which will be noticed hereafter. Suppuration, I observed, arose in consequence of an injury having been done to the solids, so as to prevent them for some time from car- rying on their natural functions; and I also observed that it was imma- terial whether this injury had exposed their surfaces, as in cases of ac- cidents and wounds, or whether the surfaces were not exposed, as in cases of abscesses in general; for in either of them suppuration would equally take place : I likewise observed that it was not necessary that there should be a breach in the continuity of parts for suppuration to take place in many cases, because all secreting surfaces were capable ofGRANULATIONS. 489 suppuration; but this last seems not to be so commonly the case with granulations. I believe that no internal canal will granulate, in conse- quence of suppuration, except there has been a breach of surface, and then it is not the natural surface which granulates, but the cellular membrane, etc., as in other parts. Wounds that are kept exposed do not granulate till inflammation is over, and suppuration has fully taken placea; for as the suppurative in- flammation constantly follows, when wounds come to be under such circumstances, it would seem to be in such cases a leading and necessary process for disposing the vessels to granulation. Setting out then with the supposition that this inflammation is in general necessary, under the above circumstances, for disposing the ves- sels to form granulations, we shall at once see how it may operate in the same manner, whether it arises spontaneously from a wound, the laceration of parts, mortification, bruise, caustic, or in short any other power which destroys or exposes the innumerable internal cells or surfaces, so as to prevent their carrying on their natural functions. Few surfaces in consequence of abscesses granulate till they are ex- posed, so that few or no abscesses granulate till they are opened, either of themselves or by art; and therefore in an abscess, even of very long standing, we seldom if ever find granulations. In abscesses, after they have been opened, there is generally one surface that is more disposed to granulate than the others, which is the surface next to the centre of the body in which the suppuration took place. The surface next to the skin hardly ever has the disposition to granulate : indeed, before opening, its action was that of ulceration, the very reverse of the other ; but even after opening, that side under the skin hardly granulates, or at least not readily. I may further observe, that exposure is so neces- sary to granulation, even on such surfaces as arise from a broken con- tinuity of parts, that if the abscess is very deep-seated they will not granulate kindly without being freely exposed, which alone often be- comes a cause why deep-seated abscesses do not heal so readily, and often become fistulous. Upon the same principle of granulations forming more readily upon that surface which is next to the centre, or opposite to the surface of the body, is to be considered their tendency to the skin. Granulations al- ways tend to the skin, which is exactly similar to vegetation, for plants always grow from the centre of the earth towards the surfaceb ; and this a [It is a singular circumstance that although exposure seems to be a necessary con- dition for granulations to take place, yet subsequent seclusion seems to be equally neces- sary for their continuance, to effect which is one of the principal objects of all dressings 1 h [Sec note, p. 287.] p490 GRANULATIONS. principle was taken notice of when we were treating of abscesses coming towards the skin. §. 1. Of Granulations independent of Suppuration. lhe formation of granulations, I have observed, is not wholly con- fined to a breach made in the solids, either by external violence and ex- posure, or in consequence of a breach in the solids, which had been produced by suppuration and ulceration, and afterwards exposed; for parts arc capable of forming granulations, or what I suppose to be the same thing, new animal matter, where a breach has been made inter- nally, and where it ought to have healed by the first intention; but the parts being baulked in that operation, often do not reach so far as sup- puration, so as to produce the most common cause of granulation. The first instance of the kind that gave me this idea was in a man who died in St. George’s Hospital. January, 1777. A man about fifty years of age fell and broke his thigh-bone nearly across, and about six inches above the lower end. He was taken into St. George’s Hospital; the thigh was bound up, and put into splints, etc. lhe union between the two bones did not seem to take place in the usual time. He was taken ill with a complaint in his chest, which he had been subject to before, and died between three and four weeks after the accident. On examining the parts after death there were found little or no ef- fects of inflammation in the soft parts surrounding the broken bones, except close to the bones where the adhesive inflammation had taken place only in a small degree. The bones were found to ride consider- ably, viz. near three inches. The cavity made in the soft parts, in con- sequence of the laceration made by the riding of the bones, had its pa- i ietes thickened and pretty solid, by means of the adhesive inflammation, although not so much as would have been the case if the parts had been better disposed for inflammation ; and some parts had become bonv. There hardly was found within this cavity any extravasated blood or coagulating lymph, except a few pretty loose fibres like strings, which were visibly the remains of the extravasated blood. From these ap- pearances this cavity had evidently lost its first bond of union, viz. the extravasated blood, which took place from the ruptured vessels; and probably the second had never taken place, viz. the coagulating lymph, in consequence of the adhesive inflammation : however, there was an attempt towards a union, for the surrounding soft parts, we have ob- served, had taken on the adhesive and ossific inflammation, so that in491 GRANULATIONS. time there might have been formed in the surrounding soft parts a bony case, winch would have united the two bones; but the parts being de- prived of the two common modes of union, they were led to a third. From the ends of the bones, and some parts of their surface, as well as from the inner surface of the soft parts, there was formed new flesh, similar to granulations. The hollow ends of the bones were tilled with this matter, which was rising beyond the common surface of the bone, and in some places adhesion had taken place between it and the sur- rounding parts, with which it had come in contact. The same appear- ance which this new flesh had in this case I have several times seen in joints, both on the ends of the bones and on the inside of the capsular ligament, but never before understood how it was formed ; hence we find that granulations can and do arise in parts that are not exposed. This is what I have long suspected to be the case in the union of the fractured patella, and this fact confirms me more in that opinion0. Here then we are shown that the cause of granulation, or the forming of new flesh for union (independently of extravasation, or the adhesive inflammation), is more extensive in its effects than we were formerly acquainted with, and that granulations, or new flesh, arise in all cases from the first and second bond of union being lost in the part (which indeed seldom happens, except from exposure); it therefore makes no difference whether the first and second bond of union escape through an opening made in the skin, as in a compound fracture, or it loses its living powers, as in the present case, and as I suppose to be the case in a fracture of the patella, which obliges the absorbents to take it up as an extraneous body. §.2. The Nature and Properties of Granulations. Granulations and this new-formed substance arc an accretion of ani- mal matter upon the wounded or exposed surface: they are formed by an exudation of the coagulating lymph from the vessels, into which new substance both the old vessels very probably extend, and also entirely new ones form, so that the granulations come to be very vascular, and indeed they are more so than almost any other animal substance. That this is the case is seen in sores every day. I have often been able to trace the growth and vascularity of this new substance. I have seen upon a sore a white substance, exactly similar in ever)' visible respect ■* [This opinion Inis not been confirmed by any subsequent and more unequivocal proofs, and therefore it is now generally considered to be erroneous.]granulations. 492 to coagulating lymph. I have not attempted to wipe it of!', and the next day ot diessing I have found this very substance vascular, for by wiping 01 touching it with a probe it has bled freely. I have observed the same appearance on the surface of a bone that has been laid bare. I once scraped oil some of the external surface of a bone of the foot, to see if the surface would granulate. I remarked the following day that the suiface of the bone was covered with a whitish substance, having a tinge ol blue; when I passed my probe into it I did not feel the bone bare, but only its resistance. I conceived this substance to be coagulating lymph, thrown out from inflammation, and that it would be forced off when suppuration came on; but on the succeeding day I found it vas- cular, and appearing like healthy granulations. 1 he vessels of granulations pass from the original parts, whatever these are, to the basis of the granulations ; from thence towrards their external surface, in pretty regular parallel lines, and would almost ap- ’ pear to terminate there. 1 he surface of this new substance, or granulations, continues to have the same disposition for the secretion of pus as the parts from which they were produced; it is therefore reasonable to suppose that the na- ture of the vessels does not alter by forming the granulations, hut that they were completely changed for the purpose before the granulations began to form, and that these granulations are a consequence of a change then produced upon them. Their surfaces are very convex, the reverse of ulceration, having a great many points or small eminences, so sis to appear rough ; and the smaller these points are, the more healthy we find the granulations. 'The colour of healthy granulations is a deep florid red, which would make us suspect that the colour was principally owing to the arterial blood*, but it only shows a brisk circulation in them, the blood not having time to become dark. When naturally of a livid red they are commonly unhealthy, and show a languid circulation, which appearance often comes on in granulations of the limbs from the position of the body, as is evident from the fol- lowing case. A stout healthy young man had his leg considerably torn, and it formed a broad sore; when healing, it was some days of a florid red, and on others of a purple hue : wondering what this could be owing to, he told me when he stood for a few- minutes it always changed from the scarlet to the modena. I made him stand up, and found it soon changed ; * I once began to suspect that the air might have some influence upon the blood when.circulating in the vessels, but from its losing that florid colour in sores of the legs by standing erect, I gave up that idea.GRANULATIONS. 493 this plainly showed that these new-formed vessels were not able to sup- port the increased column of blood, and to act upon it, which proves that a stagnation of blood was produced sufficient to allow of the change in the colour, and most probably both in the arteries and veins. These sores never heal so fast as the others, whether it is occasioned by the position of the body or the nature of the sore itself; but most frequently so in cases of the last-mentioned kind. As the position of the body is capable of producing such an effect, it shows us the reason why sore legs are so backward in healing when the person is allowed to stand or walk. Granulations when healthy, and on an exposed or flat surface, rise nearly even with the surface of the surrounding skin, and often a little higher, and in this state they are always of a florid red : but when they exceed this, and take on a growing disposition, they are then unhealthy, become soft and spongy, and without any disposition to skin. Granu- lations are always of the same disposition with the parts upon which they are formed, and take on the same mode of action : if it is a dis- eased part, they are diseased ; and if the disease is of any specific kind, they are also of the same kind, and of course produce matter of the same kind, which I observed when on pus. Granulations have the disposition to unite with one another when sound or healthy; the great intention of which is to produce the union of parts, somewhat similar to that by the first intention, or the adhesive inflammation, although possibly not by the same means. The granula- tions having a disposition to unite with each other upon coming into contact, without the appearance of any intermediate animal substance, perhaps is in the following manner. When two sound granulations ap- proach together, the mouths of the secreting vessels of the one coming to oppose the mouths of similar vessels of the other, they are stimulated into action, which is mutual; so that a kind of sympathetic attraction takes place, and, as they are solids, the attraction of cohesion is esta- blished between them : this has been termed inosculation. The vessels thus joined are altered from secreting to circulating; or it may be in this way, viz. the circulatory vessels come to open upon the surface, and there unite with one another, and the two become one substance ; or it may be asked, do they throw out coagulating lymph when they come into contact and have a disposition to heal ? and does this become vas- cular, in which the vessels may inosculate, similar to union by the first or second intention ?a. [ rii-s seems to be the most probable as well as most prevailing opinion at the pre sent ilar.}494 granulations. I have seen two granulations on the head, viz. one from the dura- mater after trepanning and the other from the scalp, unite over the bare hone which was between them so strongly, in twenty-four hours, that they required some force to separate them, and when separated, they bled. I he inner surface of the cutis in an abscess or sore does not only not readily granulate, as has been mentioned, but it does not readily unite with the granulations underneath. The tinal intention of both seems to be that the mouth of a sore, which is seldom so much in a diseased state, should have a natural principle which attends disease, to put it upon a footing with the disease which is underneath®; therefore when abscesses are allowed to become as thin as possible before they are opened, this proportion between the sound skin and the disease is better preserved, and the parts are not so apt to turn fistulous. W hen the parts are unsound, and of course the granulations formed upon them unsound, we have not this disposition for union, but a smooth surface is formed, somewhat similar to many natural internal surfaces of the body, and such as have no tendency to granulate, which continues to secrete a matter expressive of the sore which it lubricates, and in some measure prevents the union of the granulations. I imagine, for instance, that the internal surface of a fistulous ulcer is in some degree similar to the inner surface of the urethra, when it is forming the dis- charge commonly called a gleet. Such sores have therefore no dispo- sition in their granulations to unite, and nothing can produce a union between them hut altering the disposition of these granulations by ex- citing a considerable inflammation, and probably ulceration, so as to form new granulations, and by these means give them a chance of fall- ing into a sound state. Granulations are not endowed with the same powers as parts origi- nally formed. In this respect they are similar to all new-formed parts, and it is from this cause that changes for the worse are so easily effected: they more readily fall into ulceration and mortification than originally- formed parts, and from their readiness to ulcerate they separate sloughs more quickly. The granulations not only show the state of the part in which they are formed, or the state in which they are themselves, but they show how far the constitution is affected by many diseases. The chief of those habits which affect the granulations in consequence of the constitution are, I believe, the indolent and irritable habits, but principally fevers; a [As the aperture of an abscess is frequently observed to extend, by a continuance of the ulcerative action, at the same time that the bottom ofthe abscess is filling up with new granulations, the final intention would rather seem to be to preserve a /ree exit for the matter; but this meaning is probably included in the language ofthe author.]GRANULATIONS. 495 and these must be such as produce universal irritation in the constitu- tion. The unsound appearances of the granulations show to what a stand the animal powers are put on such occasions, which does not appear so A’isihly in the originally-formed parts; it is therefore evident that the powers of the granulations are much weaker than those of the original parts. §. 3. Longevity of Granulations. Granulations are not only weaker in performing the natural or com- mon functions of the parts to which they belong, but they would appear often to be formed with only stated periods of life, and those much shorter than the life of the part on which they are formed. This is most remarkable in the extremities; but where they are capable of going through all their operations, as cicatrization, their life then seems to be not so limited, they are probably then acquiring new life, or longevity, every day. But while in a state of granulation we find them often dying without any visible cause. Thus a person shall have a sore upon the leg which shall granulate readily ; the granulations shall appear healthy, the skin shall be forming round the edges, and all shall be promising well, when all at once the granulations shall become livid, lose their life, and immediately slough off; or, in some cases, ulceration shall in part take place, and both together shall destroy the granulations ; and probably where ulceration wholly takes place it may be owing to the same cause. New granulations shall immediately rise as before, and go through the same process; this shall happen three or four times in the same person, and probably for ever, if some alteration in the nature of the parts be not produced. This circumstance of the difference in lon- gevity of granulations in different people, is somewhat similar to the dif- ference in longevity of different animals. In cases of short-lived granulations I have tried various modes of treat- ment, both local and constitutional, to render the life of these granula- tions longer, but without success. It would appear from what has been said of suppuration and granu- lation, that it is absolutely necessary they should take place in wounds which are not allowed to unite by the first intention, before union and cicatrization can take place. Although this in general is the case, yet in small wounds, such as considerable scratches, or where there is a piece of skin rubbed off, we find that by the blood being suffered to co- agulate upon the sore and form a scab, which is allowed to remain, the sore will only be attended by the adhesive inflammation, and will skin over without ever suppurating. Where a small caustic has been applied49 6 GRANULATIONS. "e find also, by allowing the slough to dry or scab, that when this is completed the scab will drop oft and the parts shall be skinned; but if the blood has not been allowed to coagulate and dry, or the slough has been kept moist, the sore will suppurate and granulate. We even see in small sores", which are perfectly healthy and suppurating, that if the matter be allowed to dry upon them, the suppuration will stop, and the skin form under the scab : the smallpox is a striking proof of this, which was fully treated of in a former part of the work. A blister whose cuticle is not removed is similar to a scab, it does not allow of suppuration. If a separation takes place between the cutis and cuticle, and the cuticle be not removed, nothing will be collected through the whole course, and a new cuticle will be formed; but if the cuticle be removed, a greater degree of inflammation will come on, and suppu- ration will certainly take place. §.4. Of the Contraction of Granulations. Immediately upon the formation of the granulations, cicatrization would appear to be in view. The parts which had receded, in conse- quence of a breach being made in them, by their natural elasticity and probably by muscular contraction, now begin to be brought together by this new substance; and it being endowed with such properties, they soon begin to contract, which is a sign that cicatrization is to follow. The contraction takes place in every point, but principally from edge to edge, which brings the circumference of the sore towards the centre ; so that the sore becomes smaller and smaller, although there is little or no new skin formed. The contracting tendency is in some degree proportioned to the ge- neral healing disposition of the sore, and the looseness of the parts on which it is formed; for when it has not a tendency to skin, the gra- nulations do not so readily contract, and therefore contracting and skin- ning are probably effects of one cause. The granulations too, being formed upon a pretty fixed surface, which is a consequence of [the in- duration arising from] inflammation, are in some degree retarded in their contraction from this cause; but probably this does not act so much upon a mechanical principle as we at first might imagine, for such a state of parts in some degree lessens the disposition for this process; but this state is every day altering in proportion ns the tumefaction sub- sides. Granulations are also retarded in their contraction from a mc- [Scc p. 26;!, nvtr.]GRANULATIONS. 497 chanical cause, when they are formed on parts naturally fixed, such as bone; for instance, the skull, the bone of the shin, &c., for there the granulations cannot greatly contract*. In cases where there has been a loss of substance, making a hollow sore, and the contraction has begun and advanced pretty far before the granulations have had time to rise as high as the skin, in such cases the edges of the skin are generally drawn down and tucked in by it, in the hollow direction of the surface of the sore. If it is a cavity or abscess which is granulating, with only a small opening, as in many that have not been freely opened, the whole cir- cumference contracts, like the bladder of urine, till little or no cavity is left; and if any cavity is remaining when they cannot contract any further, they unite with the opposite granulations in the manner above described. 4 his contraction in the granulations continues till the whole is healed, or skinned over; but their greatest power is at the beginning, at least their greatest effect is at the beginning, one cause of which is that the resistance to their contraction in the surrounding parts is then least. I he contractile power can be assisted by art, which is a further proof that there is a resistance to be overcome. The art generally made use of is that of bandages, which tend to push, draw, or keep the skin near to the sore which is healing; but this assistance need not be given, or is at least not so necessary, till the granulations are formed, and the contractile power has taken place: however, it may not be amiss to practice it from the very beginning, as by bringing the parts near to their natural position the adhesive inflammation will fix them there; they will therefore not recede so much afterwards, and there will be less ne- cessity for the contractile powers of the granulations. Besides the contractile powers of the granulations, there is also a si- milar poiver in the surrounding edge of the cicatrizing skin, which as- sists the contraction of the granulations, and is generally more consi- derable than that of the granulations themselves, drawing the mouth of the wound together like a purse; this is frequently so great as to occa- sion the skin to grasp the granulations which rise above the surface and is very visible in sugar-loaf stumps, where the projection of the sore is to be considered as above the level of the skin. This contractile power of the skin is confined principally to the very edge where it is cicatriz- ing, and I believe is in those very granulations which have already cica- trized ; for the natural or original skin surrounding this edge does not * This observation should direct skin as possible. us, in operations on those parts, to save as much VOL. hi. 2 KGRANULATIONS* 493 contract, or at least not nearly so much, as appears by its being thrown into folds and plaits, while the new skin is smooth and shining. This circumstance of the original surrounding skin not having the power of contraction, makes round wounds longer in healing than long ones, for it is much easier for the granulations and the edge of the skin to bring the sides of an oblong cavity together, than the sides of a circle, the cir- cumference of a circle not being so capable of being brought to a point. Whether this contraction of the granulations is owing to an approxi- mation of all the parts by their muscular contraction, like that of a worm, while they lose in substance as they contract, or wdiether they lose with- out any muscular contraction, by the particles being absorbed, so as to form interstices (which I have called interstitial absorption), and the sides afterwards fall together, is not exactly determined, and perhaps both take place. The uses arising from the contraction of the granulations are various. It facilitates the healing of a sore, as there are two operations going on at the same time, viz. contraction anil skinning. It avoids the forma- tion of much new skin, an effect very evident in all sores which are healed, especially in sound parts. In amputation of a thick thigh (which is naturally seven, eight, or more inches in diameter before the opera- tion,) the surface of the sore is of the same diameter, for the receding of the skin here does not increase its surface, as it does in a cut on a plane; yet in this case the cicatrix shall be no broader than a crown piece. This can be effected by the contractile power of the granula- tions, for it is bringing the skin within its natural bounds. The advan- tage arising from this is very evident, for it is with the skin as it is with all other parts of the body, viz. that those parts which were originally formed are much fitter for the purposes of life than those that are newly formed, and not nearly so liable to ulceration. After the whole is skinned we find that the substance, which is the remains of the granulations on which the new skin is formed, still con- tinues to contract, till hardly anything more is left than what the new skin stands upon. This is a very small part in comparison with the first- formed granulations, and it in time loses most of its apparent vessels, becomes white, and ligamentous. For we may observe that all new- healed sores arc redder than the common skin, but in time they become much whiter. As the granulations contract the surrounding old skin is stretched, to cover the part which had been deprived of skin, and this is at first little more than bringing the skin to its old position, which had receded -when the breach was first made; but afterwards it becomes considerably more, so as to stretch, or oblige the old skin to elongate, from which we499 GRANULATIONS. might ask the following question: Does the surrounding skin in the healing of a sore lengthen by growth, or does it lengthen by stretching only? I think that the former is most probable; and if this is the case I should call this process interstitial growth, similar to the growtli of the ears of the people in the Eastern islands, particularly as it is an opposite effect to interstitial absorption. Granulations appear to have other powers of action besides simply their oeconomy tending to a cure. They have power of action in the whole, so as to produce other operations, and even to affect other mat- ter. I conceive that a deep wound, such as a gun-shot wound, advanced to suppuration and granulation, and also a fistula, become in some de- gree similar to an excretory duct, having the powers of a peristaltic motion from the bottom towards the opening externally. Thus we find that whatever extraneous body is situated at the bottom of the sore, is by degrees conducted to the skin, although the bottom of the sore’or fistula is of the same depth. This effect in such sores does not arise from the granulations forming at the bottom, and gradually raising the extraneous body as they form (which is commonly the case with exfo- liations and sloughs), but we find extraneous bodies come to the skin when the bottom of the wound is not granulating11. [This effect is rather to be attributed to the gradual contraction of the fistula from the bottom, winch may therefore be represented by an inverted cone. The ascent of fluids against the force of gravity, as of the semen along the Fallopian tubes, the secre- tion of the lungs along the surface of the trachea, fire., is probably referrible in many in- stances to the actions of vibratory cilia, with which, according to recent discovery, tl«> mucous membranes are found to be abundantly provided.] 2 tv 2500 OF SKINNING. CHAPTER VIII. OF SKINNING. When a sore begins to heal we find that the surrounding old skin close to the granulations (which had been in a state of inflammation, having probably a red shining surface, as if excoriated, and rather rag- ged.) now becomes smooth and rounded, with a whitish cast, as if covered with something white, and the nearer to the cicatrizing edge the more white it is. This is, I believe, a beginning cuticle, and this appearance is probably as early a symptom of healing, and as much to be depended upon, as any; so that the disposition in the granulations for healing is manifested in the surrounding skin; and while the sore retains its red edge all round, for perhaps a quarter or half of an inch in breadth, we may be certain it is not a healing sore, and is what may be called an irritable sore. Skin is a very different substance, with respect to texture, from the granulations upon which it is formed, but whether it is an addition of new matter, viz. a new-formed substance upon the granulations, being produced by them, or a change in the surface of the granulations them- selves, is not easily determined. In either case, however, a change must take place in the disposition of the vessels, either to alter the structure of the granulations, or to form new parts upon them. One would at first be inclined to the former of these opinions, as we have a clearer idea of the formation of a new substance than such an alteration in the old. We find the new skin most commonly taking its rise from the sur- rounding old skin, as if elongated from it, but this is not always the case. In very large sores, but principally old ulcers, where the edges of the surrounding skin have but little tendency to contract, or the cel- lular membrane underneath to yield, as well as the old skin having but little disposition to skinning in itself, a cicatrizing disposition cannot be communicated from it to the nearest granulations by continued sym- pathy. In such cases new skin forms in different parts of the ulcer, standing on the surface of the granulations like little islands. This, I believe, never takes place in parts the first time of their being sore, nor in sores which have a strong propensity to skin. Skinning is somewhatOF SKINNING. 501 like crystallization, it requires a surface to shoot from, and the edge of the skin all round would appear to be this surface. Whatever change the granulations undergo to form skin, they may in general be said to be guided to it by the surrounding skin, which gives this disposition to the surface of the adjoining granulations, as adjacent bones give an ossifying disposition to the granulations that are formed upon them. This may arise from sympathy; and if it does I should call it continued sympathy. But when the old skin is unsound, and not able to communicate this disposition, then the granulations sometimes of themselves acquire it, and new skin begins to form where that dis- position is strongest in them, so that the granulations may be ready to form new skin, if the surrounding skin be not in a condition to give the disposition. It would appear, however, that the circumference of the sore generally has the strongest disposition to skin, even although the surrounding skin does not assist, for in many old sores no new skin shall shoot from the surrounding skin, or be continued, as it were, from the old, and yet a circle of new skin shall form, making a circle within the old, and, as it were, detached from it. Skinning is a process in which Nature is always a great ceconomist, without a single exception; this, however, may probably arise from the granulations being always of the nature of the parts on which they are formed, and from seldom being formed on parts that are the least of the nature of the skin ; they have therefore no strong disposition to form skin. What would seem to make this observation more probable is, that if the cutis is only in part destroyed, as by a hurt or caustic which has not gone quite through the cutis to the cellular membrane under- neath, a new cutis will form immediately on the granulations, and in many cases it will form as fast as the slough will separate; the reason is, because the cutis has a stronger tendency to form cutis than any other part, and in many cases it may be said to form it from almost every point. We never find that the new-formed skin is so large as the sore was on which it is formed: this, I have already observed, is brought about by the contraction of the granulations, which in some measure is in pro- portion to the quantity of surrounding old skin, attended with the least resistance. If the sore is in a part where the surrounding skin is loose, as in the scrotum, then the contractile power of the granulations being not at all prevented, but allowed full scope, a very little new skin is formed, whereas it the sore is on any other part where the skin is not loose, such as the scalp, shin-bone, &c., in that case the new skin is nearly as large as the sore. This we find to be the case also in parts which are so swelled as to render the skin tight, such as the scrotum,502 OF SKINNING. when under the distention of a hydrocele, and which sometimes happens where a caustic has proved ineffectual: we then find the new skin as extensive as in any other parts equally distended. The same thing takes place in white swellings of the joint of the knee ; for if a sore is made upon such a part, as is frequently done by the application of caustics, we find that the new skin is nearly of the same size as the original sore. The general principle is also very observable after amputations of the limbs : for if much old skin has been saved, we find the cicatrix small; while, on the other hand, if such care has not been taken, the cicatrix is proportionably large. The new skin is at first commonly on the same level with the old, and if there has not been much loss of substance, or the disease is not very deep-seated, it continues its position; but this does not appear to be the case with scalds and burns, for they frequently heal with a cicatrix higher than the skin, although the granulations have been kept even with the skin. It would appear in these cases that a tumefaction of the parts, which were the granulations, takes place after cicatrization. Sometimes granulations cicatrize while higher than the common sur- rounding skin, but then they are such as have been long in that position, as is the case in some issues. I have seen the granulations surrounding a pea rise considerably above the skin, near half-a-crown in breadth, and skin over, ;dl but the hole in which the pea lay, the whole looking like a tumour. §. 1. The Nature of the new Cutis. The new-formed cutis is neither so yielding nor so elastic as the ori- ginal is, and is also less moveable upon the part to which it is attached, or upon which it is formed. This hist circumstance is owing to its basis being granulations, which are in some degree fixed upon parts united by the adhesive inflammation; and more particularly so when the granula- tions arise from a fixed part, such as a bone, the new skin formed upon them being also fixed in proportion. It is, however, constantly becoming more and more flexible in itself, and likewise more loosely attached, owing to the mechanical motion to which the parts are subject after- wards. The more flexible and loose the parts become, it is so much the better, as flexibility, or the yielding of the parts, preserves it from the effects of many accidents. Parts which have been thickened in consequence of inflammation, such as the surrounding j>arts of new skin, have always a less internal power of action in them than parts which have never been inflamed. This arises from tho^dventitious substance thrown out in the time of503 OF SKINNING. inflammation being a clog upon the operations of the original; and the new matter not being endowed with the same powers, the part affected, taken as a whole, is by these means considerably weakened. Motion given to the part so affected must be mechanical; but that motion becomes a stimulant to the parts moved, that they cannot exist under such motion without adapting the structure of the parts to it, and this sets the absorbents to work, or they receive the stimulus of neces- sity, and absorb all the adventitious or rather superfluous substance; by which means the parts are as much as possible reduced to their original texture. Medicines have not the powers we could wish in many such cases : mercury, however, appears to have the power of producing a stimulus similar to motion, and should be made use of where a mechanical sti- mulus cannot be applied ; and I believe, when joined with camphor, its powers of producing absorption are increased : when both medical and mechanical means can be used, so much the more benefit will ensue. When everything else fails, electricity might be tried. It has been the cause of absorption of tumours. It has reduced the swellings of many joints in consequence of sprains, and thereby allowed of the freedom of motion. The new-formed cutis is at first very thin and extremely tender, but afterwards becomes firmer and thicker: it is a smooth continued skin, not formed with those insensible indentations which are observed in the natural or original skin, and by which the original admits of any disten- tion the cellular membrane will allow of, as is experienced in many dropsies, white swellings in the joints, &c. This is proved by steeping a piece of dead skin, with a cicatrix in it, in water, to make the cuticle separate from the cutis ; there we find that the new-formed cuticle be- comes but little larger by such a process, which plainly shows that the new-formed cutis upon which this cuticle was formed, has a pretty smooth continued surface, and not that soft unequal surface which distinguishes the original cutis. This new cutis, and indeed all the substance which had been formerly granulations, is not nearly so strong, nor endowed with such lasting and proper actions, as the originally-formed parts. The living principle itself is also not nearly so active ; for when an old sore once breaks out, it con- tinues to yield till almost the whole of the new-formed matter has been absorbed or mortified, as has been already explained. The young cutis is extremely full of vessels, which afterwards, in a great measure, either become lymphatic or impervious, or arc taken into the constitution, so that the skin and granulations underneath are at last irec from visible vessels, and become white.504 OF SKINNING. 1 he surrounding original cutis, being drawn towards a centre by the contraction of granulations, to avoid as much as possible the formation of new skin, is thrown into loose folds, while the new looks like a piece of skin upon the stretch, and the whole appears as if a piece of skin had been sewed into a hole by much too large for it; and therefore it had been necessary to throw the surrounding old skin into folds, or gather the surrounding skin, in order to bring it in contact with the new. I he new cutis of a sore, I believe, never acquires a muscular structure ; nor does it grow larger than the sore which it covers, so as to be tin own into wrinkles similar to the old, and therefore has always that stretched, shining appearance. §.2. Of the new Cuticle. It does not appear to be so difficult a process for the cutis to form cuticle as it is for the granulations to form cutis; for we find in gene- ral, that wherever there is a new cutis formed, it is covered with a cu- ticle : and in cases of blisters, or any other cause which may have de- prived the cutis of its cuticle, we find that the cuticle is soon restored. W e are to observe, however, that in such cases it is a sound original cutis, forming its own cuticle, and having the whole power of forming 'lie cuticle, the surrounding cuticle itself having no power of action of this kind : every point of cutis is forming cuticle, so that it is forming equally everywhere at once; whereas I observed that the formation of the cutis was principally progressive from the surrounding cutis. It is at first very thin, and partakes more of a pulpy than a horny sub- stance ; as it gets stronger, it becomes smooth and shining, and is much more transparent than original cuticle, which shows more the colour of the rete mucosum. This account relates to the cuticle of sound parts which had gone through all the operations of health; but where there is a retardation in the healing we find that the cuticle is in some cases backward in forming, and in others it shall be formed very thick, so as to make it necessary to be removed, it appearing to be a clog upon the cutis, retarding the progress of its formation. §. 3. Of the Mete Mucosum. The rcte mucosum is later in forming than the cuticle, and in some cases never forms at all: this is best known in blacks who have been either wounded or blistered, for the cicatrix in the black is a consider-505 OF SKINNING. able time before it becomes dark ; and in one black who came under my observation, a sore which had been upon his leg when young, remained white when he was old. After blisters, too, the part blistered remains w'hite for some time after the cuticle is completely formed: however, in many cicatrices of blacks we find them even darker than any other part of the skin.506 EFFECTS OF INFLAMMATION, AND ITS CHAPTER IX. EFFECTS OF INFLAMMATION, AND ITS CONSEQUENCES ON THE CONSTITUTION. rp A HE constitutional affections arising from inflammation arc immediate and remote. The immediate affections have been already considered, viz. the sym- pathetic fever, and also the nervous. I shall now treat of the remote, viz. the hectic, and dissolution, which arise from the state of the local affection at the time ; the inflammation not being able to go through all the salutary steps that have been described. We have diseases, how- ever, sometimes accompanying those salutary processes; although we should naturally conclude from the foregoing account, that the suppu- rative inflammation, and suppuration itself, should produce no change in the constitution but what was attendant upon the inflammation, and might be supposed perhaps somewhat necessary to it; and that when inflammation had subsided, and a kind suppuration come on, the con- stitution should be left in a sound state, because it would now appear that all the future processes were settled; and [therefore that] a consti- tution that was capable of doing this, was also capable of going through all the succeeding operations, as they are only actions of restoration ; but we find sometimes the contrary, and the condition in which the constitution is either left, or which it afterwards takes on, proves often much more hurtful than the inflammation itself. It appears in many cases that the inflammation, the attendant fever, the going off of these, and the commencement and continuance of the suppuration produce in many persons a change in the constitution, giving a disposition to symptoms which are called nervous. The locked jaw is often the effect of this leading cause, as well as hysterics, spasms upon the muscles of respiration, and great restlessness, which often prove fatal to the patient; there are likewise signs of great and universal debility or signs of dissolution in the patient, all of which appear to be increased by a continuance of the suppuration. Each of these diseases is well marked ; and it would appear that the locked jaw, hysterics, spasms, and great restlessness arc of the nervous kind, and do not appear to arise from such a constitution as is not equal to over- come the cause, for the cause which produced them beinu removed, theCONSEQUENCES ON THE CONSTITUTION. 507 effects are going on towards health now as well as before; and if the patient dies of any of those diseases, it is not from the cause, nor from the immediate effect, viz. the local disease, but from the effect which the preceding operations, joined with the healing, have on some consti- tutions. They till seem to derive their origin from the same root, viz. from till the foregoing processes, which we have been describing; but they are altogether too extensive for our present subject. §. 1. Of the Hectic. I have now described the injuries of which inflammation is a conse- quence ; the progress of that action in different parts ; its effects on the constitution; together with the mode of treatment of both, and have carried it through its various steps to a perfect restoration. I have also already mentioned that the act of absorption affects some constitutions; but I shall now take notice that nature is not always equal to those sa- lutary processes, and hence the constitution sometimes becomes parti- cularly affected, producing symptoms different from those formerly de- scribed, and which have been called the hectic. This disease is one of our remote constitutional sympathetic affec- tions, and appears to arise from a very different origin from the other sympathizing effects before mentioned. When it is a consequence of a local disease, it has commonly been preceded by the first process of the former, viz. inflammation and suppuration, but has not been able to ac- complish granulation and cicatrization, so as to complete the cure. It may be said to be a constitution now become affected with a local dis- ease or irritation, which the constitution is conscious of, and of which it cannot relieve itself, and cannot cure; for while the inflammation lasts, which is only preparatory, and an immediate effect of most injuries, and in parts which can only affect the constitution, so as to call up its powers, there can be no hectic. We should distinguish well between a hectic arising from a load com- plaint entirely, where the constitution is good, but only disturbed by too great an irritation ; and a hectic arising principally from the badness of the constitution, which does not dispose the parts for a healing state ; for in the first, it is only necessary to remove the part (if removable) and then all will do well; but in the other we gain nothing by a removal, except the wound made by the operation is much less, and much more easily put into a local method of cure; so that this bad constitution falls less under this (the operation taken into the account) than under the lorincr state ; but all this depends on nice discrimination. The hectic comes on at very different periods after the inflammation,508 EFFECTS OF INFLAMMATION, AND ITS and commencement of suppuration, owing to a variety of circumstances. First, some constitutions much more easily fall into this state than others, havingless powers of resistance. The quantity of incurable disease must be such as can affect the constitution, and in whatever situation or in whatever parts, it will be always as to the quantity of disease in those situations or parts in the constitution, which will make the time to vary very considerably. In many diseases it would appear that the manner of coming on retards the commencement of the hectic, such as lumbar abscesses. But when such abscesses are put into that state in which the constitution is to make its efforts towards a cure, but is not equal to the task, then the hectic commences. It takes its rise from a variety of causes, but which I shall divide into two species, with regard to diseased parts, viz. the parts vital and the parts not vital. Bite only difference between these two is probably merely in time, with respect to its coming on, and its progress when come on : but what is very similar to the disease of a vital part, is quan- tity of incurable disease. flie causes of hectic, arising from diseases of the vital parts, may be many, of which a great proportion would not produce the hectic if they were in any other part of the body; such, for instance, as the formation of tumours, either in, or so as to press upon some vital part, or a part whose functions are immediately connected with life. Scirrhi in the stomach or mesenteric glands, which tumours anywhere else would not produce the hectic; many complaints too of vital parts, as diseased lungs, liver, etc., all of these produce the hectic, and much sooner than if the parts were not vital. In many cases where those causes of the hectic come on quickly, it frequently follows so quick upon the sympa- thetic fever that the one seems to run into the other: this I have often seen in the lumbar abscess. They also produce symptoms according to the nature of the part injured, as coughs, when in the lungs ; sickness and vomiting, when in the stomach; and probably bring on many other complaints, as dropsies, jaundice, etc., but which are not peculiar to the hectic. When the hectic arises from a disease in a part not vital, it sooner or ’ater commences, according as it is in the power of the parts to heal, or continue the disease. If far from the source of the circulation, with the same quantity of disease, it will come on sooner. When in parts not vital, it is generally in those parts where so great a quantity of dis- ease can take place (without the power of being diminished in size, as is the case with the diseases in most joints*,) as to affect the constitu- * The cavity of a joint is such as not readily to become smaller tinder disease, as in the soft parts, which was described in the contraction of sores.CONSEQUENCES ON THE CONSTITUTION. 509 tion, and also in such parts as have naturally but little powers to heal; Mre must at the same time include parts that are well disposed to take on such specific diseases as are not readily cured in any situation ; such parts are principally the larger joints, both of the trunk and extremities; but in the small joints of the toes and fingers, although the same local effects take place as in the larger, yet the constitution is not made sen- sible of it; we therefore find a scrofulous joint of a toe or finger going on for years without affecting the constitution. The ankle, wrist, elbow, and even the shoulder may be affected much longer than either the knee, hip-joint or loins, before the constitution sympathizes with their want of powers to heal. Although the hectic commonly arises from some incurable local dis- ease of a vital part, or of a common part when of some magnitude, yet it is possible for it to be an original disease in the constitution ; the constitution Hi ay fall into the same mode of action, without any local cause whatever, at least that we know of. Hectic may be sa.id to be a slow mode of dissolution : the general symptoms are those of a low or slow fever, attended with weakness, but more with the action of weakness than real weakness; for upon the removal of the hectic cause, the action of strength is immediately produced, as well as every natural function, however much it was de- creased before. The particular symptoms are debility; a small, quick, and sharp pulse; the blood forsaking the skin; loss of appetite; often re- jection of all aliment by the stomach; wasting; a great readiness to be thrown into sweats; sweating spontaneously when in bed ; frequently a constitutional purging; the wrater clear. This disease has been and is still in general laid to the charge of the absorption of pus into the constitution from a sore; but I have long imagined that an absorption of pus has been too much blamed as the cause of many of the bad symptoms which frequently attack people who have sores. This symptom almost constantly attends suppuration when in particular parts, such as the vital parts, as well as many inflam- mations before actual suppuration has taken place, as in many of the larger joints, called white swellings; while the same kind and quantity of inflammation and suppuration in any of the fleshy parts, and espe- cially such of them as are near the source of the circulation, have in ge- neral no such effect; in those cases, therefore, it is only an effect upon the constitution produced by a local complaint, having a peculiar pro- perty, which I shall now consider. I observed, that with all diseases of vital parts, the constitution sym- pathized more readily than with diseases of any other parts; and also, that all diseases of vital parts are more difficult of cure in general than'EFFECTS OF INFLAMMATION, AND ITS 510 those which are not vital: I have observed, likewise, that all the dis- eases of bones, ligaments, and tendons affected the constitution more readily than those of muscles, skin, cellular membrane, etc., and we find that the same general principles are followed in the universal remote sympathy, produced by local diseases of those parts. When the disease is in \ital parts, and is such as not to kill by its first constitutional ef- fects, the constitution then becomes teazed with a complaint which is disturbing the necessary actions of health, the parts being vital; there is, besides, the universal sympathy, with a disease which gives the irri- tation of being incurable. In the large joints it continues to harass the constitution with a disease where the parts have no power, or what is more probable, have no disposition to produce a salutary inflammation and suppuration ; the constitution, therefore, is also irritated with an in- curable disease. T. his is the theory of the cause of the hectic, which will be further illustrated; but now let us consider how far the idea of the absorption of matter may be a cause. If the absorption of matter always produced such symptoms, I do not sec how any patient who has a large sore could possibly escape this dis- ease, because we have as yet no reason to suppose that any one sore has more power of absorption than another. If in those cases where there is a hectic constitution, the absorption is really greater than when the habit is healthy, it will be difficult to determine whether this increase of absorption is a cause or an effect. If it be a cause, it must arise from a particular disposition in the sore to absorb more at one time than common, even while it was in a healthy state; for the sore must be healthy, and then absorb, which hurts the constitution; moreover, as the sore is a part of that constitution, it must of course be affected in turn; and what reason we have to suppose that a healthy sore of a healthy constitution should begin to absorb more at one time than an- other I must own I cannot discover. If this increase of absorption does not depend upon the nature of the sore, it must then take its rise from the constitution ; and if so, there is then a peculiarity in the constitution, so that the whole of the symptoms cannot arise entirely from the absorp- tion of matter as a cause, but must depend on a peculiar constitution and absorption combined. If absorption of matter produced such violent effects as are commonly ascribed to it (which, indeed, are never of the inflammatory kind, but of the hectic), why does not the venereal matter do the same ? We often know that absorption is going on by the progress of buboes, and I have known a large bubo, which was just ready to break, absorbed, from a few days’ sickness at sea, while the person continued at sea for twenty-CONSEQUENCES ON TIIE CONSTITUTION. 5U four days after; yet in such cases no symptoms appear till the matter begins to have its specific effects, and these very symptoms are not si- milar to those which are called hectic. From reasoning, we ought to expect that the venereal matter would act with greater violence than the common matter from a healthy sore. Although matter, too, is fre- quently formed on the inside of the veins in cases of inflammation of their cavities*, and this matter cannot fail of getting into the circulation, yet in these cases we have not the hectic disposition, but only the in- flammatory, and sometimes death. We likewise find very large collec- tions of matter, which have been produced without visible inflammation, such as many of the scrofulous kind, and which are wholly absorbed, even in a very short time, yet no bad symptoms follow f. We may therefore from hence conclude, that the absorption of pus from a soie into the circulation cannot be a cause of so much mischief as is generally supposed; and if it was owing to matter in the consti- tution, I do not see how these symptoms could ever cease till suppura- tion ceased, which does not readily happen in such constitutions, their sores being tedious in healing. We find, however, that such patients, often get well of the hectic before suppuration ceases, even when no medicine was given ; and in the case of veins there is great reason to believe that after all the bad symptoms arc removed, suppuration is still going on, as we find it so in a sore; pus may therefore still pass into the constitution from the veins, and yet the hectic may not be produced, which would certainly be the case if those bad symptoms were occa- sioned by the matter getting into the circulation. But I very much doubt the fact of absorption going on more in one sore than another; and if ever it does I think it is of no consequence; I am much more in- clined to believe that this hectic disposition arises from the effect which irritation of a vital organ and some other parts, such as joints (being either incurable in themselves, or being so to the constitution for a time), have on the constitution. We may remark, that in large abscesses which have not been preceded by inflammation, the hectic disposition seldom or never comes on till after they are opened (although they may have been forming matter for months); but in such cases the disposition often comes on soon after opening, and in others very late. Till the stimulus for restoring parts. is given, no such effect can take place; and if the parts arc well disposed \ idc Paper entitled “Observations on the Internal Coats of Veins,” at the end of this volume. t It may, however, he objected to this, that this is not true matter or pus; but it may be necessary to show that the one affects the constitution upon absorption more than the other.512 EFFECTS OF INFLAMMATION, AND ITS to heal, no hectic disposition comes on, neither is the constitution at all affected. In diseased joints also, which are attended with inflammation, if the parts were capable of taking on a salutary inflammation, we should have only the first sympathetic fever; but as they seldom are capable of doing this, the constitution becomes teased with a complaint, not taking on the immediate and salutary steps towards a cure. In the venereal disease, too, where we know that the venereal matter has got into the constitution, and that the matter is producing its specific effects, no hectic comes on, till the constitution is harassed wTith an in- curable disease, and this not till long after all the parts are healed with regard to recent disease, and no matter is formed for further absorption. That absorption does take place in sores wre have reason to believe, and upon this fact a mode of dressing sores has been advised. The follow- ing is a remarkable instance of it in a bubo. A young man had a chancre and three buboes, one of which appeared when the other two were almost cured. This was very large, and at the bottom of the belly. When it had suppurated, and was pretty near breaking, it diminished very quickly, and in two or three days was en- tirely gone. While this was going on he observed that his urine was wheyish and thick while making it, which went entirely off when the bubo had subsided. Before the bubo began to subside he was rather mending in his health, which continued to mend; nor did the diminution of the bubo alter the state of his health. The hectic, from what has been said, appears in some measure to de- pend on the parts being stimulated to produce an effect which is beyond their powers ; that this stimulus is sooner or later in taking place in dif- ferent cases, and that the constitution becomes affected by it. The hectic disposition arises from diseased lungs, lumbar abscesses, white swellings, scrofulous joints, etc. §. 2. The Treatment of the Hectic. We have as yet, I am afraid, no cure for any of the consequences above related; I believe that depends on the cure of the cause, viz. the local complaint, or on its removal; the effects, I fear, are not to be cured. Strengthencrs, and what are called antiseptics, are recommended. Strengtheners are proposed on account of the debility which has taken place. Antiseptics have been employed from an idea that pus, when absorbed, gives the blood a tendency to putrefaction. To prevent both of these effects from taking place the same medicines are however re- commended. These are bark and wine. Bark will, in most cases, only assist in supporting a constitution. I should suppose it impossible toCONSEQUENCES ON THE CONSTITUTION. 513 cure a disease of the constitution till the cause be removed ; however, it may be supposed that these medicines may make the constitution less susceptible of the disease, and may also contribute to lessen the cause, by disposing the local complaints to heal; but where the hectic arises’ trom specific disease, as, for instance, if a hectic disposition comes on from a venereal disposition, bark will enable the constitution to support it better than lt otherwise could have done, but can never remove it Wine, I am fearful, rather does harm if it increases the actions of the machine without giving strength, a thing carefully to be avoided : how- ever,^ I have not yet made up my mind about wine. When the hectic arises from local disease in such parts as the con ' stitution can bear the removal of, then the diseased part should be re- moved viz. when it arises from some incurable disease in an extremity • and although all the symptoms above described should have already taken place, we shall find that upon a removal of the limb the svm- ptoms will abate almost immediately. I have known a hectic pulse at one hundred and twenty sink to ninety in a few hours upon the removal the hectic cause. I have known persons sleep sound the first night " ithout an opiate, who had not slept tolerably for weeks before. I have known cold sweats stop immediately, as well as those called colliquative I have known a purging immediately stop upon the removal of the hectic cause, and the urine drop its sediment. It is possible, too, that the pain m the operation, and the sympathetic affection of the constitution may assist in these salutary effects. It is an action diametrically oppositl to the hectic, and may be said to bring back the constitution to a natu- ral state. §.3. Of Dissolution. Dissolution is the lost stage of all, n„d is commo„ immedia(e consequence of, all diseases. whether local or constitutional. A man shall not recover of a fever, whether original or sympathetic, but shall move into the last stage, or dissolution. It shall take place in the «e cond stage o a disease, where the state of constitution and part, appears o he formed out of the firs,, as, for instance, a ,tJ£e the l" \h f°'e the.knee* or have a very bad compound fracture in the leg; the first constitutional symptoms shall have been violent but all shall appear to have been got the better of, and there shall be hopes of recovery when suddenly he shall be attacked with a shiver in-fit -t perform all its actions, vi, shall not produce hot t and sweat, but shall continue a kind of irregular hot fit atten I 1 with ,„;s Of appetite, quick low pulse, and sunken ^ “ W IjEFFECTS OF INFLAMMATION, AND ITS 514 shall die in a few days. Or he shall go into the common diseased sym- ptoms of the second stage, viz. the nervous, with many of its effects, as the tetanus, and dissolution shall also be a consequence. Or if the local disease does not or cannot heal, and is such as to affect the constitu- tion, it then brings on the hectic, and sooner or later dissolution takes place: for the hectic is an action of disease, and of a particular kind ; but dissolution is a giving way to disease of every kind, and therefore has no determined form arising from the nature of the preceding disease. It has been supposed that this disease arises also from the absorption of matter. It appears to he in many cases an effect arising from violent and long-continued inflammations and suppurations, although not incu- rable in themselves, (therefore in those respects not similar to the hectic,) and which in many instances are known to produce the great- est changes in the constitution. Such often arise from very bad com- pound fractures,from amputations of the extremities,especially the lower, and more particularly the thigh, in which cases the sympathetic fever has run high, which would appear to be necessary or preparatory ; but in the hectic it is not necessary that the constitution should have suf- fered at all in the first stages of the disease: dissolution seems to be more connected with what is past than with the present alone, which is the reverse of the hectic. We never find this disease take place in consequence of small wounds, or such wounds as have affected the con- stitution but little in its first stages, but which may affect the consti- tution much in its second, such as small wounds producing the lock-jaw. It would appear to take place in our hospitals more generally than in private houses, and more readily in large cities than in the country. W e shall find that the hectic and dissolution are by no means the same dis- ease, but differ exceedingly in their causes and in many of their effects ; for in the case of compound fractures and amputations, we find the con- stitution often capable of going through the inflammatory and sympa- thetic fever, producing suppuration and granulation, as well as conti- nuing the production of these for some time, and yet sinking under them at last, and often immediately, without a seeming cause. This effect will more readily take place if the person was in full health before the accident or operation than if he had been somewhat accustomed to the other, or true hectic; for the symptoms of dissolution seldom or never take place, if the violence committed has been to get rid of a hectic cause. It sometimes takes place early, in consequence of local injury, and would seem to be a continuation of the sympathetic fever; as if the constitu- tion was not able to relieve itself of the general affection, or that the parts could not go into the true suppurative disposition. We see this frequently after removing a limb, especially the lower extremity, and afterCONSEQUENCES ON THE CONSTITUTION. 515 cutting for the stone in very fat men, above the middle age, and who have lived well. The first symptoms are generally those of the stomach, which produce shivering; vomiting immediately follows, if not an immediate attendant; there is great oppression and anxiety, the persons conceiving they must die; there is a small quick pulse; perhaps bleeding from the whole sur- face of the sore; often mortification, with every sign of dissolution in the countenance; and, as it arises with the symptoms of death, its ter- mination is pretty quick. Here is a very fatal disease taking place, in some almost immediately, when all appeared to be within the power of the machine, and therefore cannot immediately arise from the sore itself, or it is very common after such operations as usually do well; but the hectic always takes place in consequence of those sores which seldom or never get well m any case; yet the sore certainly assists in bringing; on dissolution, because we never see the disease take place when the sore is healed, nor in those where the constitution seems not to be equal to the task, as is the cause of the hectic. The hectic is much slower in its progress, and seems to be a simple and an immediate effect, arising from a continued cause which is local • by removing the cause therefore the effect ceases, and the havoc made upon the constitution is soon restored : persons therefore do much better m consequence of the hectic having in some degree taken place prior to the removal of the cause. But dissolution is a change of the constitu- tion m consequence of causes which now do not wholly exist, and in many cases it does not take place till the constitution appears to be ca- pable easily of performing all its functions, and a removal of the parts does not relieve, as in the hectic; for dissolution does not depend for its continuance upon the presence of the disease. Death or dissolution appears not to be going on equally fast in every vital part; for we shall have many people very near their termination yet some vital actions shall be good and tolerably strong; and if it is a visible action, and life depends much upon this action, the patients shall not appear to be so near their end as they really are. Thus I have «een dying people whose pulse was full and strong as usual on the day pre- vious to their death but it has sunk almost at once, and then become extremely quick, with a thrill. On such occasions it shall rise again making a strong effort, and after a short time a moisture shall probably come on the skin, which shall in this state of pulse be warm, but upon the sinking of the pulse shall become cold and clammy; breathing shall ecome very imperfect, almost like short catchings, and the person shall soon die. It would appear in many cases that disease has produced *2 l 2516 EFFECTS OF INFLAMMATION, AND ITS such weakness at last as to destroy itself: we shall even see the sym- ptoms or consequences of disease get well before death. A gentlewoman, who was above seventy-five, was anasarcous all over; the abdomen was very full and large ; she made but very little water; her breathing was so difficult as to make her purple in the face, so that most probably there was water in the chest; her pulse was extremely irregular, fluttering, trembling, intermitting, and small. Her legs were punctured with a lancet, and discharged very freely for more than three weeks, which emptied the cellular membrane of the body, as well as in some degree the abdomen ; the breathing became free and easy, so that we supposed the water in the chest was absorbed; the pulse became regular, soft, and fuller, and the appetite in some degree mended; in which state she seemed free from disease, having only some of the con- sequences still remaining: the quantity of urine increased to the natu- ral quantity; but, notwithstanding actual disease seemed to be gone, yet she became weaker and weaker, in which state she existed for near a month, and died. Some days prior to death a purple and then a livid appearance came upon the legs, with some spots of extravasated blood above where the punctures had been made, on which blisters arose, at first filled with serum, then with bloody serum, all of them threatening mortification. Even wffien in the state of approaching death we often find a soft, quiet, and regular pulse, having not the least degree of irritability in it, and this when there is every other sign of approaching death, such as entire loss of appetite, no rest, hiccup, the feet cold, and partial cold, clammy sweats, &c. A lady appeared to have lost all diseased action, only the consequences of disease remaining, viz. weakness, with swelled legs: she made little or no water; at length she became so weak as hardly to articulate ; she lay in a kind of doze, was only roused to impression, and only took food by spoonfuls when desired ; the pulse so small as hardly to be felt. Her extremities were cold, and she had all the signs of approaching dissolu- tion, which took place; yet w'ithin thirty-six hours before she died, the whole water in her legs and thighs was taken up, her urine increased, and about ten hours previous to her death, the legs, &c. were as small as ever. As I consider the dropsy to be a disease, and not simply weak- ness, which tills case w'ould in some measure show from the result, I should wish to ask whether the absorption of water was not owing to the disease being gone ? and whether the disease being gone, the absorb- ents did not set to work ? If so, then dissolution may be a cessation of disease, and persons die of weakness simply ; or simply either the wantCONSEQUENCES ON THE CONSTITUTION. 517 of powers to act, or the want of that stimulus of necessity to act, by which means a cessation of action takes place. Since bodies of persons who die suddenly, and even by violent death, as well as those who die soon after a considerable operation, are not ca- pable of being preserved so long as those who have been ill for some time; and as those who have a considerable operation performed upon them, as the amputation of a leg, do not so readily recover as those who have been long ill, may not the more ready production of death and the more ready production of putrefaction be owing to the same principle, one more readily running into the action of death as also more readily into the action of putrefaction ? But it is very probable that the action producing quick putrefaction is an action prior to absolute death.PART III. CHAPTER I. THE TREATMENT OF ABSCESSES. I HAVE endeavoured to lay down the general principles of suppura- tion, which principles of themselves lead to a general method of cure; but as it is only' the proper application of art to those principles which completes the surgeon, and since it is the most difficult part to apply our knowledge of first principles to practice with readiness, especially when there appear some peculiarities, it will be necessary' to bring the beginner from first principles to the practical part. Abscesses are in general consequences of spontaneous inflammation, but not always so; for they may be consequences of some violence, as strains or bruises from some external violence, which has hurt deeper- seated parts than the skin over them, which inflame and form an abscess, as was described in treating of accidents ; as also from the introduction of extraneous bodies, over which the parts have healed. Even when they appear to be spontaneous, they arise from so many' causes, and from thence have so many dispositions, or are of so many kinds, that in ge- neral they become one of the greatest objects in surgery ; because, from these circumstances, they require a vast variety in the manner of treat- ment. I do not mean at present to enter into a full discussion of the cause, effect, and cure of every abscess, because that would be treating of every' disease which is capable of producing such complaints, many of which would come under the article of specific diseases, which must be treated of separately; yet I mean here to lay down such general surgical rules for their treatment and many of their consequences, as will include almost every’ kind of disease of this kind, considered as an abscess simply'. So that the specific treatment of any specific abscess will be principally con- fined to the medicinal treatment of the part and the constitution ; there- by the treatment of the local complaint so produced, abstracted from the specific disposition, will for the most part come under our general rules. As most spontaneous suppurations, from whatever cause, arc deeper-THE TREATMENT OF ABSCESSES. 519 seated than the surface of the body, such of course must form what are called abscesses, or collections of pus; therefore we have abscesses of all depths, from the pimple in the skin to the boil, and from the boil to deep-seated abscesses among the muscles, or in any other deep-seated part. Abscesses are commonly formed where matter is found, especially the more superficial ones, and such may be justly called abscesses of this part; but collections of matter are often found in parts where not formed, more especially in the deeper-seated ones ; the matter moving from the seat where it was formed to some more depending part, or having met with some obstruction in its course, it takes another direction and there- fore may be called an abscess in this part; and I shall call them so in my descriptions of them. 1 believe such abscesses do not arise from in- flammation, but are of the scrofulous kind, and therefore not so much to our present purpose. It will be difficult to divide abscesses into absolutely distinct classes; but, similarly to inflammation, they may be divided into two kinds, the sound and the unsound ; lor I imagine these two first principles might lead to the method of cure ; but at present I only mean to lay down the principles of an abscess. f he appearances which distinguish the sound from the unsound ab- scess are several; although there are many abscesses of particular kinds that give little or no information. They often differ from one another in their first appearance from the kind of inflammation, as also in their course, but more particularly in their efforts toward a cure. Thus we judge of the consequences of the smallpox from the first ap- pearance of the arm after inoculation ; for if the beginning inflamma- tion is small, pretty much circumscribed, and of the florid red with some rising, then we may in our own minds expect a good kind; the same upon the first appearance of the smallpox themselves; as also the first appearance of chancre, etc., or almost of any other disease, either begin- ning with or attended by inflammation ; for it is by the kind of inflam- mation we are to judge of the future event. It might be thought almost unnecessary here to treat of sound ab- scesses, because in such our first principles will readily take place, and often little or no assistance is required ; but abscesses may be attended with circumstances which may retard the cure, and which have nothing to do with unsoundness, such as extraneous bodies in sound parts; and these will most probably come under our general principles of cure, that is, require something to be done, because they will in many cases re- lieve themselves of the extraneous matter, and then they require but little assistance.520 THE TREATMENT OF ABSCESSES. §• 1. The Progress of Abscesses to the Skin. What I mean by a sound abscess, is where there is a sound constitu- tion, the parts affected having all the disposition and powers to heal, and those dispositions and powers allowed to hike place, which will happen more readily if in structures of the body which have naturally a ready disposition to heal; so situated in the body as to be able to support its actions, and not of a specific kind, for which we have no cure; for any specific disease, for which we have a cure, will come within our first di- vision*. 'I he inflammation in a sound and active part, and of a sound consti- tution, in general is pretty violent, attended from the very beginning with a considerable deal of paint; suppuration takes place quickly; the parts between the abscess and the skin are readily affected, and ulcera- tion goes on fast; the skin becomes of the florid red; the matter comes soon to it, especially at a point J, and it bursts; all this is done with great rapidity. The symptoms show such a degree of health in the constitu- tion and the parts, that little is necessary for the surgeon to do in the first stages of the disease. Poultices are recommended in such cases to assist that disposition which the parts have to give way between the skin and the abscess; but I have already observed, that they certainly can have no effect of this kind ; however, they have their uses when the inflammation has reached the skin, for they keep it soft, allow the cuticle to distend, and give way to the swelling underneath, wrhich eases the patient. Warmth and moisture act in many cases as sedatives to our sensations, although not always; and the distinction between those where they give ease, and where they rather give pain, I have not been able to make out. As an abscess of the healthy kind requires but little surgical treatment, * Viz. if a venereal abscess has its specific quality destroyed, it admits of cure as readily as any other, and the same treatment becomes necessary. + Vide Symptoms of Suppurative Inflammation. X This very appearance makes a material difference between an abscess arising from brisk inflammation, and one that is slow in its progress ; it is so remarkable, that I have seen this effect where the matter was at such distance as not tube felt in the least, and where I have doubted whether there was matter or not, almost conceiving that it preceded suppuration. It certainly has this effect long before there is any distention : besides this, of a pointing taking place, there is another eflect of deep suppurations in consequence of inflammation, which is an cedematous appearance, or thickening of the superficial parts. This was taken notice of by Le Dran in internal abscess of the ab- domen, where adhesions had taken place between the suppurating part and the parietes of the abdomen, and by Mr. Pott in suppuration of the brain; whether in such there )s a pointing or not I do not know.521 THE TREATMENT OF ABSCESSES. between its commencement and opening, it also requires but very little attention afterwards for the cure or the restoring the parts. This depends more on the operation of the powers or abilities the machine is in pos- session of, than on any assistance the surgeon can give ; however, ab- scesses may have other circumstances attending them, besides soundness and unsoundness, which will require surgical treatment; such as the extraction of exfoliated bones, which by their stay retard the cure. Further, as few inflammations arise in perfectly sound parts and consti- tutions, it will generally be necessary to treat them in some degree as if they had an unsound tendency, and also according to other circum- stances. As no abscess can set about a cure till the matter is discharged, the first process, therefore, is the discharge of the matter; but simply dis- charge is not always sufficient; therefore it becomes necessary to con- sider whether or not, almost in every case it would not be proper to do more; and I am inclined to believe that whatever would in general as- sist an unsound abscess, would also do the same to a sound one; but this practice should be followed with great caution, and not carried too far, for in many it will be perfectly unnecessary, therefore it should not be practised; in others it will only be necessary in part; besides, in many cases it may do harm, for many abscesses may have tolerable dis- positions under the present treatment, yet may be in such a state as very readily to fall into an unsound one, of some kind or other, when too much violence is committed; some having a tendency to irritability: on the other hand, our practice may fall short of the intention, as many parts have a strong tendency to indolence ; and if the stimulating me- thod is applied to the first it would be unlucky, and vice versa. It will be generally more in the power of the parts to perform a cure if certain operations are done, which even dispose the most active and healthy disposition, both of constitution and of parts to heal sooner; but this does not hold of the irritable. The first of these operations will he the mode of exposing abscesses, by opening them sufficiently, which will make any particular treatment afterwards, either less neces- sary, or more easy of application, if necessary ; so that the first principle of the cure, even of sound abscesses, may be the freedom of opening them in the beginning; however, the more sound they are, there is the less necessity for such treatment; for if it does not give new powers to the parts, it keeps up those of which they are already in possession, and obliges them to go on towards a cure for the living principle in parts, more especially sound parts, seems uneasy under the circumstance of ex- posure, and of having no skin, and therefore is roused to action, acting with a view to cover the part. It has no alternative; and, as I have522 THE TREATMENT OF ABSCESSES. just now observed that few spontaneous abscesses take place from so slight a cause as simple violence produces, there must be a something to be got the better of. This is, perhaps, as well illustrated in the fi- stula in ano, as in any other; for without dividing along the gut to the bottom, which is where the disease is, and where the abscess has formed, it seldom or never heals; however, all this will be according to cir- cumstances, for if the suppuration is quick and comes fast to the skin, the parts will heal in the same proportion more readily, cither with or without opening; therefore, in such instances, it is not so necessary to open freely, though as it is not the method nature commonly takes, it has by many been objected to; but let us observe, that where an ab- scess opens of itself by a small orifice, the parts are commonly very sound where the opening is, although the bottom may be diseased ; but if it be diseased where it opens, then ulceration commonly hikes place at this orifice, which effects what should be done by art. To illustrate that a large opening is not detrimental to the healing of a sore, let us observe that there is no difference between an abscess opened largely, and a wound in consequence of an operation which is not healed by the first intention, such as an amputation, etc.; for in such cases there is a breach in the continuity of the parts communicating with the skin, as large, if not larger than at the bottom, and it heals readily. We endeavour, however, to remedy this as much as possible by saving skin, which, in some degree answers to a small opening; and we may also observe that where there is only a small opening leading to a large cavity, which is to suppurate, as in the case of a hydrocele treated by a caustic or seton, (which when come to suppuration is in all respects si- milar to an abscess,) the whole so far as suppuration extends, heals equally well with those that are wholly exposed; but I do not know that they do better: and where the sac is not very sound I do believe they do not so well as when more fully enlarged : and we may also observe, that opening largely into the scrotum is not subject to the same inconvenience as in many other parts, for here there is so much loose skin as to remove any retardment to the healing that might arise in other parts from opening largely: however, after viewing this in every light, there seems but little advantage gained in the one way or the other. The opening more or less freely must be directed by some other circumstance, by which the surgeon must be guided. But as most ab- scesses owe some of their size to distention, and as this will be more or less according to circumstances, it becomes necessary to distinguish the one kind from the other, for the one will require a freer opening than the other. Abscesses in soft parts will owe more of their size to distention thanTHE TREATMENT OF ABSCESSES. 523 those in hard parts, such as bones, joints, etc. Abscesses in soft parts, not connected with the hard, will owe more of their size to distention than those in soft parts connected with the hard; for instance, an ab- scess in the calf of the leg, thick of the thigh, buttock, etc., will owe more of its size to distention than an abscess on the shin-bone, on the head, etc. Therefore an abscess, whose size is in some degree owing to distention, need not be so freely opened as one that is not; because when the distention is taken off by the discharge of the pus, the parts will contract, or fall into their natural position, which cannot so easily happen in the other case. Besides, the granulations will also be allowed to contract in the one case, much more than in the other. However, we find many abscesses healing very readily without any other opening than what was at first made by ulceration, and this will be more readily efleeted if the abscess has been allowed to break of itself, which I shall now more fully explain. §• "• Of the lime when Abscesses should be opened. The natural process that abscesses are obliged to go through for the discharge of their contents is in general the most proper, and it is so much so as to be in most cases allowed to go on; and this process becomes more necessary in unsound abscesses than in sound ones, as it exposes them more fully, from ulceration having destroyed more of the parts between the seat of the abscess and the external parts. As abscesses, wherever formed, must increase as they approach the skin, and therefore increase that part of their cavity next to the skin faster than at the bottom, so that they become in some degree tapering towards the bottom, with a wide part immediately under the skin; and this will be more or less so, according to their depth, their meeting with different substances which give a resistance to the pus, or their coming fast or slowly to the skin. This shape of the abscess, when allowed to take place, is well adapted for healing; for it puts the bottom, which is the seat of the disease, more upon a footing with the mouth of the abscess than it otherwise could be. W hen these two are not well proportioned there is a retardment in the cure; for as the bottom, or part where the abscess begun, is more or less in a diseased state, and as the parts between the seat of the ab- scess and the external surface are sound parts, having only allow'ed a passage for the pus, they of course have a stronger disposition to heal than the bottom has; and we commonly find this to be the ease. It there could be made at any time a difference in the powers of heal- ing between the mouth of the abscess and its bottom, it ought to beTHE TREATMENT OF ABSCESSES. 524 made the most defective at the mouth of the abscess, as that part is the easiest of management. To have this effect produced as much as pos- sible, abscesses should be allowed to go on till they break or open of themselves; for although abscesses in general only open by a small ori- fice, more especially when sound, yet it is to be remarked that the skin over the general cavity of the abscess is in such cases so much thinned as to have but very little disposition to heal, and is often so much so as to ulcerate and make a free opening; and if it does not, an opening is more easily procured by art. It is a curious circumstance in the ceconomy of abscesses that those that have the best dispositions to heal come fastest to the skin ; the lead takes place almost at a point, it does not swell so much into that coni- cal form above described, not being under the same necessity in point of healing, and it opens by a small orifice; while, on the other hand, if there is an indolence in the progress of the abscess it will spread more, or distend the surrounding parts, from their not being so firmly united by inflammation in the one as they were in the other; nor will ulcera- tion so readily take the lead, and it will come to the skin by a broad surface, so as to thin a large portion of the skin. But abscesses should only be allowed to open of themselves where the confinement of the matter can do no mischief, which will generally be in such as ought to heal up from the bottom; but in the reduction of circumscribed cavi- ties to the state of an abscess it will be in most cases proper to open early, as in abscesses of the abdomen or thorax, those within the cra- nium, those of the eye, and those in joints. In the abscess of the tunica vaginalis testis it would be better to let it open of itself, as it should be allowed to heal up from the bottom, similar to an abscess in the cellular membrane. If it should be unnecessary to open freely, or if from circumstances this should be impossible, it will in either case be very proper to make the opening which is necessary or practicable at the most depending part, with a view to remove the pressure arising from the matter col- lected, which is commonly called confinement or lodgement of matter, which will otherwise happen ; for I shall observe that a very small pres- sure on that side of the abscess next to the skin may produce ulceration there; and although this pressure in many cases might not be so great as to produce ulceration at the bottom of the abscess, yet it may be so great as to prevent granulations from forming on that side, and thereby retard the cure, as no union can take place but by means of granula- tions ; or if it should not prevent granulations from forming, yet it might retard their growth, so that the cure would be more tedious than if the pressure did not exist; and this retardation will be greatest where the525 THE TREATMENT OF ABSCESSES. pressure is the greatest, which will he at the most depending part of the abscess; so that its upper part will readily heal to a small point, and he reduced to the state of a fistula. But it is not always possible to open at the most depending part of an abscess, and when possible often very improper. When impossible, perhaps nothing more can be done than to evacuate the matter as often as necessary, and by gentle pres- sure keep the sides of the sinus together, to allow their growing into one another; but the situation will not in all cases allow this. The inexpediency of opening at the most depending part of an abscess will in general arise from the distance between the matter and the skin at this part; for if the abscess is pretty deeply seated, and points at a part superior to that of its seat, which it sometimes does from the parts above, being such as more easily give way, in such a case it will be proper to open it wiiere it points. For instance, if an abscess is formed in the centre of the breast, and opens at the upper part, (which is often the case,) it would be improper to cut through the lower half to allow the matter to pass that way, although it may make its way there afterwards, from the pressure of the matter, as wras just nowr observed ; which I have seen happen more than once. If an abscess forms on the upper part of the foot, it is improper to open through the sole of the foot to get at the most depending part of the abscess, for besides cutting such a depth of sound parts, which is an objection, it would be destroying a great many useful parts. It would also be impossible to keep it open, the sound parts having such a dispo- sition to heal; and it w'ould be contradictory to my first position, which wras to have parts as thin as possible before they Eire opened, in order to destroy the healing disposition there*. As in such cases the place where the matter threatens to open a pas- sage for itself is w’here the future opening is most likely to be, and as the situation is disadvantageous to the healing of the seat of the abscess, it will be more necessary to let it first open of itself (because the abscess just under the skin will be increased in width, as was observed), and then to dilate it eis freely as may be thought necessary; for by allowing abscesses to open of themselves the opening has a less disposition to heal than if it had been opened early by art; therefore [the former method] is more desirable in such situations. * One would imagine that this last caution was hardly necessary, but I once saw a case where it was advised, upon the general principles of opening in the most depend- ing part.526 THK TREATMENT OF ABSCESSES. §. 8. Of the Methods of opening Abscesses, and treating them afterwards. All abscesses I have already observed will open of themselves, ex- cepting where the matter is re-absorhed ; and I have also observed, that in general they ought to he allowed to open of themselves, excepting some particular circumstance calls for an' early opening; hut when the skin over the abscess is very thin, it is not of so much consequence whether it is allowed to open of itself, or is opened at first by art. In large abscesses it will generally be necessary to open them by art, whether they have opened of themselves or not, for the natural opening will seldom he sufficient for the complete cure; and although it may be sufficient for the free discharge of the matter, yet they will heal much more readily if sufficiently opened, for the thin skin over the cavity gra- nulates but indifferently, and therefore unites but slowly with the parts underneath. Where the skin is very thin, loose, and much of it, it may be necessary to remove an oval piece from the centre, where it is gene- rally thinnest. A question naturally occurs, in what way should these be opened? 1 he methods recommended and used are by incision and caustic. In- cision may or may not remove a piece of the skin, but the caustic always will. I believe, as a general practice, there is no preference to be given to either, but under circumstances the incision is best; for instance, where there is but little skin to spare, as on the shin, scalp, etc., but where there is skin to spare, either arising from situation, as in the scrotum, or where a great deal of skin was thinned, as in a great extent ot inflammation and suppuration under the skin, a caustic wall answer equally well; therefore I should be very apt to be directed by my pa- tients if they had any fears or opinions about the matter, for some have a terror at the idea of a cutting instrument, while others hate the idea of a continued pain. If a caustic is approved of, then I should prefer the lapis infemalis vel septicus to the common caustic; the method of application I described when speaking of the methods of producing death hy art: but if left entirely to myself, I should prefer the incision to the caustic, because it is immediately done. If an abscess is allowed to open of itself, and this opening is not en- larged, no dressing is necessary, nor anything but to keep the surround- ing parts clean ; the continuation of the poultice, which was before ap- plied (if convenient), is perhaps as good an application as any, and when the tenderness arising from inflammation is over, then lint and a pledget; but an abscess opened by a cutting instrument may be called a mixed527 THE TREATMENT OF ABSCESSES. case, being both a wound and a sore, and is more of the nature of a fresh wound in proportion to the thickness of the parts cut, and there- fore the dressing should be somewhat similar to that of a fresh wound. It is necessary that sometliing should be put into the opening, to keep it from healing by the first intention ; if it is lint it should be dipt in some salve, which will answer better than lint alone, as it will allow of more early extraction ; for such sores should be dressed the second time the next day, or the second day at latest, because there is a suppurating sore at the bottom, and the pus requires being discharged much sooner than if wholly either a fresh wound or a circumscribed cavity, which is to suppurate, as the tunica vaginalis in the case of the radical cure of the hydrocele. This pus keeps the lint (if dressed with lint) moist, so that it does not dry, as in fresh wounds in common. When the cut edges have come to suppuration, which will be in a few days, then the dressing afterwards may be as simple as possible, for Nature will in ge- neral perform the cure. If the abscess has been opened by caustic, and the slough is either cut out or allowed to slough it, then it is to be considered as an entire suppurating sore, and may be dressed accordingly; perhaps dry lint is as good as anything, till the nature of the sore is known ; if of a good kind, the same dressing may be continued, but if not, then it must be dressed accordingly; for Nature cannot always perform a cure ; for parts which were at first sound, or appeared so, from their readiness to go through the first stages, will subsequently take on every species of dis- ease, whether from indolence, from irritability, from scrofulous or other dispositions, which in some cases are produced from the nature of the parts diseased, such as bone, ligament, etc. [The reciprocal effects of structure on inflammation, and of inflammation on structure are two important subjects which are only incidentally noticed in the preceding pages! I propose therefore very briefly to notice these points. 1. To Haller is undoubtedly due the merit of having first analytically divided the animal body into its component tissues, and ascertained their distinctive physiological properties; while to Hunter we must accord the merit of applying this mode of inquiry to pathological investigations, conceiving that as each texture was endowed with pe- cnliar properties in a state of health, it would likewise in the same manner be affected in a special manner by the causes of disease, and consequently, that the same modes of lesion would always produce similar effects on all the analogous structures of the body. Bichat still further extended this system in his Annioinie Geiterolc, which appeared in 1801, but without acknowledgements to Hunter; and it is undoubtedly to this source that we must ascribe the great and rapid advances which have been made in pathological knowledge during the present century. To suppose, however, as some have done, and as was first ably suggested by Dr. Car- michael Smyth in 1790, that the differences of inflammation essentially and almost ex- clusively depend on differences of structure, is pushing the principle too far: for. nsTHE TREATMENT OF ABSCESSES. 528 Mr. Hunter has justly observed, in the division of the leg in amputation a great many different structures are divided, and yet they all become affected by the same inflam- mation, and show no difference, except under peculiar circumstances, in this respect. In fact the same inflammation may affect different structures, or the same structure be aft'ected by different inflammations, or inflammation may be transferred from one struc- ture to another. Structure, therefore, is merely a modificatory cause, and often of the least consequence in giving a peculiar character to the inflammatory action. Cellular Membrane.—This structure forms the basis of all the organs of the body, and therefore may not improbably constitute the proper seat of inflammation, as well as the proper generative tissue, in all cases; for we may observe that the lymph effused in in- flammation is always the same, from whatever structure it proceeds ; that the process of union is likewise similar for all parts; and that in the regeneration of tissues the pro- duction of cellular membrane is invariably the first effort of the organizing principle. It seems not unlikely, therefore, that this uniformity of effect is to be referred to the cellular structure being always affected. The cellular membrane is remarkably sus- ceptible of inflammation, which is generally characterized by the sthenic type, acute throbbing pain, and the rapid and abundant effusion of coagulable matters. It readily passes into all the terminations of inflammation; that is, adhesion, suppuration, ulcera- tion, and mortification. Inflammation of this structure in a healthy constitution shows little disposition to spread, in consequence of the cells being speedily united by coagu- lable lymph; but under certain states of impaired health, and in particular kinds of in- flammation, as, for instance, of the veins, or that arising from the inoculation with morbid poisons, it spreads with great rapidity; not circumferentially, as in a state of health, but irregularly, attended with comparatively little pain. In consequence of adhesive matter not being poured out, the foul sanies, which is secreted instead of pus, easily pervades the cells of this membrane, and carries devastation before it, producing a quaggy state of the subjacent parts, arising from a mixture of pus with sloughy cellular membrane. The seat of this inflammation is usually the subadipose or subfacial cellular membrane; and though in its local and constitutional effects it closely resembles the erysipelas phlegmonoides, yet in the former case the skin remains unaffected, so as to conceal in great measure the mischief which has taken place. In these cases simultaneous puru- lent depositions not uncommonly take place in various situations of the body. (Tr. of Med. and Chir. Soc. of Edin., vol. i.; Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ., xxiv. 225.; Travers on Constitutional Irritation j and Med. and Chir. Tr. of London, vol. xvi.) Dermoidal Tissue.—Inflammation of the skin affords the best type of inflammatory affections, for here it is that the external marks of inflammation are most conspicuously developed; the phenomena, however, are much diversified, according to the part of the skin which happens to be affected. If the external layer of the corion is affected, as in erythema and erysipelas, the inflammation is apt to spread ; if the papillae or muciparous follicles, or the bulbous roots of the hair, then the character of the inflammation is that of the circumscribed eruptive disorders; and if the internal and attached surface, then that of the boil, carbuncle, and phlegmon. The skin is easily inflamed by direct me- chanical and chemical injuries, but in a state of health this inflammation is not apt to extend itself. It is also peculiarly accessible to inflammation from morbid poisons or vitiated states of the system, and hence the pathological conditions of this system have always afforded the chief arguments to the humoral pathologists. The dermoidal and mucous tissues offer many points of affinity, both in a physiological and patholo- gical view. In both inflammation is apt to migrate from one part to another, overleaping the intermediate portion ; in both pustular and follicular inflammations occur; ulceration and mortification take place in both with great facility, and in both it is observable that their morbid states reciprocally influence one another. It may also be noted, that neither of these tissues is subject to the ossific transformation. The regenerativeTHE TREATMENT OK AiiSCESSES. 529 powers of skin are only inferior to those of the cellular membrane, but the new cutis is different from the old, in being devoid of hairs, muciparous follicles, fat, papillae, and epidermis, and sometimes of the rete mucosum, although the three latter are certainly reproduced in many cases after a certain lapse of time. The fibrinous contractile cica- trix, which is generated in burns, is not peculiar to this tissue, but occurs occasionally in mucous and serous membranes, producing in the one set of cases the worst forms of stric- ture, and in the other a more or less complete atrophy of the organs which it envelopes. Mucous membranes. This structure, like the skin, is exposed to a variety of exter- nal influences and therefore is very subject to attacks of inflammation, which generally commence by separate ramiform patches, which extend with some degree of capricious- ness: the urethra, for example, becomes first inflamed towards the orifice, then the membranous portion or bladder, and lastly the kidneys or testicles; the intermediate continuous portions of the sound membrane not suffering. The same thing is observed of the air-passages and alimentary canal, the different portions of which become suc- cessively, but not continuously affected. The mucous membrane is at first dry, then swells, becomes intensely vascular, and often in a high degree villous, the follicles usually enlarge, and the secretion is gradually changed from a highly limpid mucus into genuine pus. There is a great difference, however, in this respect; for while some, as the urethra, secrete pus very readily and in great abundance without being prone to ulceration, others, as the intestines, are seldom found to produce this fluid without previous ulceration; while others again, as the fauces and tonsils, not unfrequentiy se- crete a peculiar modification of albumen, which, although not organizable, adheres for a considerable length of time to the free surface, and assumes the appearance of an ash- coloured or greyish slough. The bladder and colon secrete a ropy tenacious mucus, especially in chronic inflammation, while the internal membrane of the stomach and small intestines is reduced, under the same circumstances, to a soft pulpy condition, so as easily to admit of being scraped off-, or even to be removed by the natural actions of the part. Specific diseases and poisons are peculiarly apt to attack parts of this system, and at the same time to produce specific effects, as is seen in croup, dysentery, and' scurvy; but in general the prevailing tendency of this system may be stated to be, suppuration, ulceration, and mortification. Occasionally, however, there is considerable submucous infiltration either of serum or lymph, producing in the former case oede- ma, and sometimes death, when it happens to occur in the larynx, and in the latter permanent cartilaginous strictures. The regenerative powers of this tissue differ in different parts; for in the bucco-pharyngeal portions they are very considerable, while in the enteric, laryngeal, and urinary portions they are very limited. In extensive re- generations, as at the back of the pharynx, the new membrane is of a different colour from the old, and unprovided either with follicles or villi, in consequence of which it is no longer a secreting surface ; but in other cases, especially where a considerable time has elapsed, it is perfectly restored. The lining membranes of certain forms of gelati- niform encysted tumours and sinuses are the natural transition between the mucous and serous classes. Serous membranes. Inflammations of this class are characterized by their tendency to spread and to exude a great abundance of the coagulable parts of the blood ; they are also generally characterized by their acuteness, by the severe and rousing pain which they occasion, and by the great capability which the system evinces under their influence of enduring great losses of blood ; in which respect, as well as by their indisposition to take on the suppurative form, they are remarkably contra-distinguished from those of the former class. Primary ulceration and mortification of this tissue are extremely un- common ; but in certain forms of secondary inflammations, which have been before ad- verted to, it gives rise to an abundant purulent secretion. Next to the fibrous cluss, the serous tissue is most subject to metastatic inflammations, as gout, rheumatism,syphilis, &c., and in such cases many parts are often simultaneously attacked. Pathologists are divided VOL. HI. 2 M530 THE TREATMENT OK ABSCESSES. as to the proper seat of this inflammation, some considering it to be the serous membrane itself, and others the subserouscellular tissue, the proper serous membrane beingrcgard- ed, like the epidermis, as extra-vascular. There is, however, no doubt of the former be- coming visibly vascular in some stages of its progress, of the vessels thus formed tieing in communication with those which are generated in the effused lymph, and of all the other changes of inflammation being produced without visible vascularity, as in the arach- noid membrane ; so that upon the whole there seems no reason to doubt that the serous membranes are themselves inflamed, especially as subserous infiltrations, whether of se- rum, lymph, or pus, are to be regarded as unfrequent occurrences. After removing a portion of the pleura pulmonalis, Dr. Thomson could not discover any visible cicatrix; troin which, as well as from the frequent generation of this tissue in new situations, there is no reason to doubt that this membrane is readily reproduced. The synovial and bursal structures resemble the serous in most leading respects; but the change of structure into a pulpy greyish substance, to which the former are subject, and the tendency to fungoid growths, to which the bursae are liable, have not been observed in the serous membranes, although both are extremely prone to cartilaginous and ossific transformations, the result of chronic inflammation ; neither are they equally liable to the production of loose cartilages and small ovoid bodies in the form of melon seeds, nor equally exposed to metastatic inflammations. Fibrous tissue. Like other dense and unvascular parts, the fibrous tissue exhibits a comparative backwardness to inflammation, the processes of reparation are slowly effected, and ulceration, mortification, and even suppuration are seldom primarily induced. The differing degrees of vascularity, however, in different parts of this system occasion a great difference in this respect. In general there is an abundant effusion of roagulable lymph, which often under such circumstances becomes ossified ; but, upon the whole, the reproductive powers of this system are not considerable, so that tendons which have sloughed are not renewed, and ruptures of the capsular ligament, in cases of dislocation, have remained unrepaired for several years. This system is peculiarly obnoxious to inflammation from constitutional causes, as gout, rheumatism, and syphilis, in which cases there is often a metastasis of the disease from one part to another in succession, attended with severe nocturnal exacerbations. The confinement of matter in some of these cases is often productive of great constitutional irritaion. Cartilaginous system. It has been doubted whether true cartilage is ever subject to inflammation, principally because it has never been observed to become vascular; but as the phenomena of normal ossification leave no doubt as to the vascularity of this sub- stance in a state of health, there seems no just reason for doubting its capability to in- flame, especially as in similar unvascular parts, as the cornea, the arachnoid membrane, and even the teeth, there is no question on this subject. Neither is there any question respecting the vascularity of the fibro-cartilages, although these structures nre traceable by insensible degrees into true cartilage, from which indeed they are not essentially dif- ferent. Still, however, there are some peculiarities respecting the pathology of cartilages which are not easily explained: as, for example, the extreme dissimilarity which they exhibit in regard to the two forms of ulcerative and progressive absorption; the former of which takes place with the greatest readiness, and the latter with the utmost difficulty. Ulceration of the harder cartilages is sometimes unaccompanied with suppuration, it is generally, however, attended with a high degree of irritative fever, as compared with the actual extent of the disease, and often with partial exfoliations. The reproductive powers of cartilage are very limited, and it is observable that this substance invariably unites by osseous union. Osseous system. The peculiarities of ostitis are principally referriblc to the peculiar hard texture of bone, which does not admit of that rapid extension of vascularity which the reparative processes of inflammation seem to require : consequently nil the processes531 THE TREATMENT OF ABSCESSES. of bone are extremely tedious, so that in some eases several years are required for the complete disjunction of a dead from a living portion. The general principle, of parts being less accessible to inflammation in proportion as they are dense in structure and deficient in vascularity, holds good in respect to bones, which are rarely subject to idio- pathic inflammation ; the compacter portions being less subject than those which are more porous, although both are much more so than tendons, fascia, and cartilages. Still, however, bones are much exposed to chronic inflammation from mercury, syphilis, gout, rheumatism, scrofula, &c., giving rise to various forms of hyperostosis. Bones become very vascular when inflamed, and the harder parts readily perish. In nearly all cases the texture of the bone is much loosened by inflammation, and a part of the earthy matter is absorbed, so that when macerated and dried it exhibits a light and spongy fabric; in some rare cases it acquires unusual density, approaching to the nature of ivory. The union of bone is precisely similar to that of soft parts, while its reproductive powers are of a high order, leading not only to the complete regeneration of entire shafts of bone, but to the perfect restoration of the organization to the normal state: in which respect, perhaps, they are not equalled by any other structure of the body. Muscular Tissue. This tissue appears to be the least liable to inflammation and its consequences of any structure of the body. When inflammation attacks this structure from wounds, &c., it becomes soft and lacerablc, and of various shades of green, brown, and red ; but in such cases it is not observed that the inflammation has any disposition to extend along the whole course of the muscle. 1 have sometimes seen a diffused sup- puration in the substance of muscles in secondary inflammations, as well as in inflamma- tions arising from wounds received in dissection, and circumscribed abscesses have occa- sionally been discovered in the substance of the heart in carditis. Muscle is never repro- duced, but the union is invariably effected by a fibro-ligamentous structure. Vascular System. The arteries differ very remarkably in their liability to inflamma- tion as compared with the lymphatics and veins, as well as in their constitutional effects and morbid changes. Inflammation of the internal coats of arteries must be con- sidered as very uncommon, and rarely advances to the suppurative stage, whereas nothing is more common than inflammation and suppuration of the veins and lympha- tics, attended with low typhoid symptoms, secondary suppurations in various situations ot the body, and very often death. Chronic inflammation also, leading to considerable thickening of the venous tunics, is sufficiently common. In inflammation of the vein* and lymphatics the adjacent tissues are always more or less involved, so that their course is indicated by hard and painful lines. Mr. Hunter has remarked that this system re- sists the effects both of ulceration and mortification beyond all other tissues; and with regard to mortification they are not, I believe, ever primarily affected in this way. The reproductive powers of vessels are certainly of the highest order, although differing in some measure from other parts. In an instance already referred to (see note. p. 242.), new vessels were actually produced, capable of performing all the functions of the old | but in general when large vessels are obliterated their office is vicariously performed bv the enlargement of others which had previously existed. uT-T rirUe' Li“le iS k,'0Wn resPectinB the nerves. That they become inflamed anti thickened m certain cases of local neuralgic disease has been demonstrated by dis- section, but in other cases no such appearances have been observed; neither is it known whether they are ever primarily affected by ulceration, suppuration, or mortification. I he question as to the regeneration of the proper nervous tissue is still undecided The proper medullary matter of the brain and spinal marrow is subject to acute and c hro me inflammation, like other parts; probably the former, however, never takes place idiopathically, but from injuries and poisons only, when it is generally limited in its extent and characterized by a red colour of various degrees of intensity, verging towards brown, green, or yellow, and terminating in a state of diffluence. Chronic inflamma- 2 m 2532 THE TREATMENT OF ABSCESSES. iiju is much more frequent, attended with increased vascularity at first, but as the brain becomes softened, with a red, yellowish, or whitish colour, marking three several kinds of mollescence, depending on the effusion of blood, pus, or serum. There seems reason, however, for believing that this pulpy disorganization of the brain may take place independently of inflammation. The most remarkable circumstance connected with this tissue is the occurrence of large chronic abscesses, generally inclosed in thick cysts, and unattended with any symptoms during life. These I have known to occupy one entire hemisphere of the brain. Ulceration sometimes occurs towards the surface of the convolutions, and by some the diffluent state of the brain before spoken of is thought to resemble mortification. 2. It has been before stated that all the functions of a part are modified by inflam- mation ; of these, however, two only are susceptible of examination, viz. secretion, in- cluding the inflammatory effusions, and nutrition : the former of these has been already considered, and it only remains to make a few observations respecting the latter. The effects of inflammation as regards nutrition may be divided into two primary classes, including, in the first place, those which have respect to the physical properties of parts; and, in the second place, those which have more immediate reference to their organical constitution. These, it must be obvious, often run up into each other, so as to render any satisfactory classification of the phenomena impracticable. The primary effects of inflammation, or those which regard the physical properties of parts, are several. Induration, as regards the soft parts, is one of the most universal effects of inflamma- tion, and may be said to depend on the interstitial deposition of lymph in the inter- spaces of the natural organization, which in process of time becomes converted into the same nature as the part itself. These effects are more or less permanent in different cases. In general, parts are found to revert to their former state upon the subsidence of the inflammation; but in other cases this does not happen, in consequence it may be presumed of the normal organization of the part being permanently injured; as, for in- stance, in the iris, which is often irretrievably destroyed by acute iritis. Instances of induration remaining, after the augmentation of bulk has subsided, occur in the liver, brain, muscles, spleen, and particularly in the eburnation of the articular extremities of bones from which the cartilages have been denuded. Softening also is a very frequent consequence of inflammation, particularly of the cel- lular membrane, as is evinced in the diminished cohesion of parenchymatous organs, and the weakened attachment of membranous expansions to the parts which they cover. The harder textures, as bone, tendon, cartilage, &c., are most frequently softened by inflammation, in the same manner as the softer textures are most frequently hardened; but these effects are sometimes reversed. Softening has been ascribed to the infiltra- tion of serum and pus disintegrating the healthy organization, but as such effusions are not always, or even generally, attended with this consequence, it is probably referrible to some peculiar modification of the nutritive function, especially as this is known to be sufficient of itself to produce the effect independently of inflammatory action. The most remarkable examples of softening occur in the lungs, spleen, mucous membranes of the stomach and bowels, and in the brain and spinal marrow. The original organ- ization in such cases is often irrecoverably destroyed. Fragility must not be confounded with softening, although it is often found associated with it. An increased lacerability of parts is, upon the w hole, much more general than softening, and occurs under both the conditions which have previously been considered. It is seen in the inflamed and hepatized lung, as well as in the common cellular mem- brane which has besn hardened by the infiltration of recent lymph.THE TREATMENT OF ABSCESSES. 533 Hypertrophy consists in the undue development of parts beyond their normal propor- tions. Like every other change consequent on inflammation, hypertrophy may occur from other causes besides inflammation, because inflammation merely alters the nutrition of parts, which many other causes are equally capable of doing. It is always associated with a state of hyperemy, and most frequently with increased density of structure. When it arises from simply increased functions there seems to be no difference in. the mode of growth from that of ordinary nutrition ; but when it arises from inflammation the augmentation of bulk is effected by interstitial deposition, which afterwards becomes organized. In hypertrophy of the bladder, consequent on diseases of this part, both these causes concur to produce the effect; these distinctions, however, are not always apparent, especially in bones, which often enlarge under circumstances which fall short of inflammation, and yet are more or less connected with it. Exostoses, for example, which are partial hypertrophic developments, are often traceable to mechanical inju- ries; and in the same manner bones are often found to enlarge from constitutional causes, as gout, rheumatism, syphilis, &rc., which in a more active form produce inflam- mation. A chronic ulcer of the surface may occasion an enlargement of the bone be- neath, and a similar effect may be produced by the Barbadoes leg. Atrophy is a vice of nutrition, the very reverse of the former. Both appear to have their analogues in the evolution of tlie feetus, in which there is sometimes an arrest and sometimes a persistence of the formative principle, giving rise to two opposite forms of monstrosity. As in inflammation, therefore, the principle of growth or augmentation of parts, which seems natural to this state, is sometimes persistent beyond the due and regular period, so on tile other hand the principle of absorption, by which this excess of growth is removed, is sometimes continued after the due and regular effect of the resto- ration of the parts to their natural condition has been accomplished. The excess of growth m an inflamed part being useless when the inflammation has subsided, and perhaps an incumbrance to the due exercise of its functions, is removed on the same principle as many parts, having a temporary use in foetal life, or parts in the adult which have be- come disorganized and unfit for their office, are got rid of; for in general it may be ob- served that the use of a part, and consequently its necessity, are the only protection which it has against the operation of this law. Accordingly, it is observed that those parts which have only a temporary use in the economy, as the testicles, mammas, ova- ries, &c., are most liable to the effect of wasting, in consequence of inflammatory action. The secondary effects of inflammation, or those which regard the organical constitu- tion of parts, are coextensive with the whole range of pathology, and cannot be entered into in this place. The most general division of these formations is into the analogous, or those which have some analogue in the healthy body, and the heterologous, or those which have no resemblance to any healthy elementary tissue, as schirrus, melanosis, tubercle, &c., and which therefore are to be regarded in the highest sense as morbid productions. The former again have been subdivided by Ileusinger into new or analo- gous formations, or accidental, parasitical, and adventitious tissues anormally developed in situations where they did not previously exist, as serous cysts, fatty tumours, &c.; and analogous transformations, or the conversion of existing parts into structures of a different kind from that which they originally possessed, as when serous and fibrous membranes are converted into bone, muscle into fat, &c. The former are nenrlv as ex- tensive as the natural elementary tissues of the body, and, for the most part, are inju- rious. The latter are less numerous, being sometimes characterized by an elevation of tie natural organization of the part, to answer some new and useful object in the eco- nomy, and sometimes, by a degradation of the original tissue, subversive of its peculiar function. ' In the opinion of many modern physiologists, the whole of these anormal productions are refemble to an inflammatory cause; and undoubtedly such a cause, or some external injury almost equivalent to it, may often be detected in many individual cases; but stillTHE TREATMENT OF ABSCESSES. 534 this is very lar from being general, and therefore, for reasons which I have previously given (I. 367, note), I cannot concur in this opinion. Inflammation appears to produce morbid growths; first, by weakening the parts; and secondly, by inducing a temporary modification of the normal mode of nutrition, both which circumstances are the invari- able consequents of inflammation, and may reasonably be presumed to predispose the affected parts to assume a new disposition, corresponding to any preexisting cause of disease which may be in the constitution at the time. Without the concurrence of some other cause, however, inflammation alone is insufficient for the effect, and when this cause actually exists inflammation is unnecessary, and the remedies for inflammation unavailing. BlBLIOtiRAPII 7 OK INFLAMMATION. ‘Alison, op. cit. (vide ante, p. 138), p. 393, and op. cit. (vide ante, p. 233). *An- drat, op. cit. (v. a. p. 138,) i. 12. De l'Hyperemie. Badham, D., M.D. Reflections on the Nature of Inflatn. and its alleged consequences. Svo. 1834. Baldwin, II. (Th.) De Inflatn. 1803. Balfour, IV., M.D. Observ. on Adhesion, &c. Svo. 1814. Bar gen. De Inflatn. ejusque Theoriis. Svo. 1827. — Baronio, G. Degli innesti Animali. 8vo. 1804. Bell, B. On Ulcers, White Swellings, and Inflam. 2nd edit. Svo. 1779. Bell, J. Principles of Surgery, (vol. i. on wounds, ulcers, &c.) 3 vols. 4to. 1801 — 1808. Berlioz, A. Propositions sur 1’Inflam. lto. 1814. Black, J. M.D., op. cit. (v. a. p. 234.) Boerhaave, II. Diss. de Inflatn. in Genere. 4to. 1707. Bohn. Diss. de Inflam. 4to. 1684. Boyer, Le Baron, Traite des Mai. Cltir. (vol. i.) 3eme. 4dit. 11 vols. Svo. 1822-6. Bracket, J. L. De l'Entploi de l'Opium dans les Phlegmasies des Memb. Mu- queuses, sereuses et fibreuses, &c. Svo. 1828. Bricheteau, in Diet, des Sc. Med., Art. Inflammation et Phlegmasie. ‘Broussais, F. J. Hist, des Phlegma- sies, &c. 2 tom. Svo. 1808 ; and Hist, des Phlegmasies Chroniques, 3 tom. Svo. 1822; and 4eme edit. 3 tom. Svo. 1826. tr. by Hays. Phil. 1831. Brown, J. Med. Es- says on Fever, Inflam., &c. Svo. 1828.——Burdock, K. F. Diss. Observ. nonnullce Microsc. Inflam. spectantes. 1825 ; and op. cit. (v. a. p. 139.)—Burnt, J. Diss. on Inffamm. 2 vols. Svo. 1800; and Principles of Surgery’, vol. i. (p. 24.) Svo. 1831. Caffin, J. F. Du Caractere de 1'lnflam., de la Congestion, &c. Svo. 1819. Caffort. Memoir sur la Nature de lTnflam. 8vo. lS29.—Carpue, J. C. An Account of two successful Operations for restoring a lost Nose, &c. 4to. 1816. Carus, C. G. De Vi Nature Medicatrice in formandis Cicatricibus. Part i. 8vo. 1822. Ckaufford, II. Traite des Inflam. Internes. Svo. 1831. Ckomel, in Diet, de Med., Art. In- flam. tom. xii. 1825. Chortet, ./. F. Trait6 de ITnflatn. et de ses Terminaisons. 8vo, 1808. Cose, .1. B. (Th.) On Inflam. Phil. 8vo. 1794. Crawford and Twee die, Des., in Cyclopaedia of Pract. Med., Art. Inflam. vol. ii. 1832. Cru- veilhier, J. in Diet, de Mini, et Chir Prat., Art. Adhesion. 1829. Cullen, IV., M.D. First Lines, &c. (vol. i.) 4 vols. Svo. 1789. Delperk, J. Pre -is K16m. des Mai. Chir. (tom. i. c. i.) 3 vols. Svo. 1816. Doklhof. De Phlegmone. Svo. 1819. Dowler, T., op. cit. (v. a. p. 140.) On the Products * See p. 138 for the explanation of the star, and for the titles of those works which are here merely referred to. It may be proper to mention that the extensiveness of this subject has made it necessary to fix some limit; I have therefore seldom inserted the titles of works prior to the time of Hunter or Monographic* on particular subjects.535 THE TREATMENT OF ABSCESSES. : of Acute Inflam. Duges, A. Essai Phys.-Path. sur la Nature de la Fifivre, de I'lnflam., &c. 8vo. 1823. Dzondi, //. C. Aphorismi de Inflam. lib. i. 8vo. 1814. Dzondi, K. U. Pathologia Inflammation^. 8vo. 1828. E nle, J. ft., In Med. Gaz., vol. xvi. 1834—5. On Iiiflmn. Edden, H. A. Die Theorie d. Entzundung. 8vo. 1811. diggers. Von der Wiedererzeugung. 8vo. 1821. Emiliani, L. Dell’Inflam Comm. 8vo. 1824; and Ricerche sul trattamento delle Malattie Inflammatorie. Svo. 1829. Fegelein, G. M. Versuch einer Nosologie und Therapei der Entzundungen. 8vo. 1804. FiUpfii, G. de. N'uovo Saggio Analitico sull’ Inflam. Gendrin, op. cit. (v. a. p. 141.) Gerardin, Essai sur les Phlogoses Sarcopee et Os- teopee, &c. 4to. 1828. Gibson, 11'., M. 1). The Institutes and Practice of Sur- gery, &c. 2nd edit. 2 vols. Svo. Phil. 1827. Goeden, H. A. Die Theorie der En- tzundung. Svo. 1811- —Goldoni, A. Sulle inflam. trattato diviso in tre parti, pt i. 1825. Discorso in risposta alle cose a su riguardo stampata dal Sig. Prof. G. Tom- masini nel vol. ii. sail’ inflam. Svo. 1829. Good, J. A/., M.B. Study of Med. (ii. 283.) 3rd edit, by S. Cooper. 5 vols. Svo. 1S29. Grae/e, It. C. F. De Rhino- piatice, &c. Lat. edidit J. F. C. Hecker. 4to. 1818. Gruithuiseii, Fr., in Gaz. M6d.-Chir. de Salzbourg, ii. 129. (1810.)—Theorie der Entzundung. ib. ii. 298. (1811.) ; and Preface to his Organozoonomie. Svo. 1811. diaries, ./. C. F. Pratische Bemerkungen iiber innere Entzundungen bey Kindern. 4to. 1810. *Hastings, C., M.D., op.cit. (v.a. p. 235.) Herdman, J. Diss. on White Swelling and the Doctrine of Inflam. Svo. 1802 Heffter, D. F. Doctrinaj de Gangrena Brevis Expos. 4to. 1807.—On the subject of hospital gangrene consult Larrey, Q’Halloran, Delpech, Hennen, and the military surgeons generally. See also Reuss and Plouquet, Art. Gangrene and Sphacelus. Henke, A. De Inflam. intends Infantum comm. 1817. Hermann, De Inflam. in Genere. Hidden- brand, J. V. A’. Instit. Pract.-Med., &c. (ii. De Inflam.) 4 tom. Svo. 1816-25. Hoffmann, C. K. Sententia de Inflam. Natura. Svo. 1819. Hofrichter, II. Versuch tiber das Entzundungsfieber und die Entzundung. Svo. 1806. Hohnbaum, iiber das Fortsehreiten des Krankheits-processes insbesondere der Entzundung, &c. 1826. Hunt, J. On the Progress of Medical Science regarding Inflam.. Gangrene, and Gunshot Wounds. 4to. 1801. *Jumes, J. H. Observ. on the General Principles, &c. of Inflammation. Svo. 1821. 2nd edit. 1832. *Kallenbrvnner, G., op. cit. (v. a. p. 142.) Koch, C. A. Diss. de Observ. nonnullis Microsc. Sang. Cursum et Inflam. spectantes, &c. 1825. Kolk, J. L. C. Schroeder van der, Observ. Anat-Path. et Prat. Arguinenti. fasc. i. 8vo. 1826; and op. cit., (v. a. p. 142.) Konig, G., op. cit. (v. a. p. 142.) Lalanne, P. quelques Consid. sur 1 Inflam. en general et sur les differentes terminaisons. 4to. 1804. Laiigenbeck, C. J. M. Nosologie, &c. der Chir. Krankheiten (1.6.) 3 bde Svo. 1822-25. * Lawrence, W., in Med. Gaz. vol. v. p. 97. 1829-30. Lect. on Surgery.- Liesseling, C. L. G. de Gangraena. 4to. 1811. Lizars, J. in Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ. xv. 369. (1810.) On the Pathology of the Nerves in Inflam. Lobstein, J. F. Traitfe d’Anat. Path, (jj 334.) Svo. et fol. 1829. Lucas, C. E., M.I). The Pritteiples of Inflam. and Fever. Svo. 1822.THE TREATMENT OF ABSCESSES. 536 Miigenisie, D. The Doctrine of Inflam., &c. 8vo. 1768. Mantavoni, V. Lezioni dt Nosologia e terapia suite Infiam. (vol. iii.) 12mo. 1820. Meier, J. Versuch einer kritische Geschichte der Entzundung. 8vo. 1812. Meyer, Im. ueber die Natur. d. Entzundung. 8vo. 1810. Versuch e. krit. Geschichted. Entzundung. 8vo. 1812. Moore, J. Diss. on the Process of Nature in filling up Cavities, healing of Wounds, &c. 4to. 1789. Morgan, G. T. on Inflam. and its Effects. 8vo. 1837. Naumann, M. zur Lehre von der Entzundung. 12mo. 1828. Niettch, K. F. ueber verborgene Entzundung, 8rc. 8vo. 1819. Parry, C. H., M.D. Elem. of Path, and Therap. 8vo. 1815, and op. cit. (v. a. p. 236.) Paul, Fr. Comm. Phys. Chir. de Vulneribus sanandis, &c. 4to. 1825. Porret, S. (Tli.) Apergu sur les Phenom*nes g*n*raux de l’lnflam. consid*r*s dans les dif- ferens Systemes. 8vo. an. xi. Pinel, P. Nosographie Pltil., &c. (tom. ii. Piileg- masie,) 3 tom. 1813, and 6me 6dit. 3 tom. 8vo. 1818 Plouquet. Diss. de mul- tifariis Inflam. Terminationibus. 4to. 1803. Portel, P. J. P. Diss. sur l’lnflam. 4to. 1803. Prevost, J. L. in M6m. de la Soc. de Phy. de Genfive, vi. 142. (1833.) note sur l’lnflam. Prus. de 1’Irritation et de Phlegmone. 8vo. 1825. Ruche, in Diet, de Med. Prat. art. Inflam. vol. x. 1833. Ronnefeld, C. H. Ani- madv. nonnullac ad Doct. de Inflam. 4to. 1817. Roger son, G. A Treatise on Inflam. vol. i. 8vo. 1832. Salfender. Diss. de Reunione Partium Corp. Hum. Elementarium. Svo. 1826. Sanson, L. J. de la Reunion Immed. des Plaies, &c. Svo. 1834. Scholefield. de Tlieoria Inflam. 1822. Scott, J. Surgical Observ. on the Treatment of Chron. Inflam. in various Structures, &c. Svo. 1822. Serre, M. Trait* de la Reunion Immediate, 8tc. 8vo. 1830. *Smytli, J. C., M.D. Of the different Kinds and Species of Inflammation, and of the Causes to which these Differences mav be ascribed: in Med. Communications. (1790.) II. 168. Somme. Etudes sur l’lnflam. Svo. 1830. Sporer, G. M. de Inflam. Morbo Anim. et Veget. 1824. Stahl, G. E. Diss. de Infiam. vera Pathologia. 4to. 1698. Stevens, A. H. A Diss. on the prox- imate Causes of Inflam. Svo. 1811. Sucks, L. II'. Grundlinien zu einem Sy- steme der pratische Medicin. (Th. 1. Entzuudungen.) Svo. 1821. Suringar. Comm. Med. de Modo, quo Natura versatur in restituendo omni quod in Corp. Hum. solutum sit. 4to. 1823. -Syme, J., in Edinb. Med. and Surg. Journ. vol. xxx. (1828.) p. 316. On the Nature of Inflam. •Thomson. John, M.D. op. cit. (v. a. p. 144.) Tommasini, G. Dell’Infiam., &c. 8vo. 1820. and 2da ediz. 2 vol. 8vo. 1826-7. Travers, B. Inquiry into the Disturbed State of the Vital Functions, called Constitutional Irritation. Svo. 1826.—Further Inquiry, &c. Svo. 1835. • I acca, L. Liber de Inflam. Morbosae, qua? in Ifumano C'orporc fit, Natura, Causis, Effectibus, et Curatione. 1765. Waring, (Th.) de Inflam. 1823. Wedemcyer, I'. O'. Untersuchungen liber des Kreis- lauf des Blutes. 1828. Wendelstedt. Diss. de Cognatione et Differentia inter In- flam. et Profluvia. IS09. Wendt, G. Die alte Lehre von den Verborgenen En- tzundungen bestatigt. 2te Aufl. Svo. 1826. IT kite, in Mem. of the Soc. of Man- chester. vol.i. (1785.) On the Regen. of Animal Substances. Wiesmann, J. If. F., de Coalitu Partium a reliquo Corporc prorsus disjunctarum Comm., etc. c. tab. «en.THE TREATMENT OF ABSCESSES. 537 4to. 1824.- W illis, J. C., (Th.) de Inflam., 1802. —■— H il,son, J., op. cit. (v. a. p. 144.) Wilson, Philip, M.D., on Febrile Diseases, 8vo. 1799, and 4th edit. 8vo. 1820, and op. cit. (v. a. p. 236.) Winter!. J. J. Inflam. Theoria Nova. Svo. 1767. For a further account of the literature of this subject, particularly of specific inflam- mations and of the opinions of the older authors, consult the undermentioned works: Bernstein, J. G. Medic. Chir. Biblioth: k. Burdach, K. T. Die Literatur der Heil- Wissenschaft. 3 Bde. Svo. 1S10—21. Creuzenfeld, S. If. Bibliotheca Cliir., &c. 2 vol. 4to. 1781. Haller, A. Bibi. Chir. 2 tom. 4to. 1774—5. Langenbeck, C. J. M. Bibliothek Birdie Chir. 4 Bde. 12mo. 1807-13, and Neue Bib. f. d. Chir. 4 Bde. 12mo. 1815-28. Otto, op. cit. (v a. p. 237.) Plouquet, op. cit. (v. a. p. 237.) Puchelt, F. A. B. Literatur de Med. Svo. 1822. Reuse, op. cit. (v. a. P- 237.) Scavini, J. M. Precis Hist, de la Doct. de l’Inflam., &c. 2de 6dit. Svo. 1811. Sprengel, K. Literatura Med. Externa, &c. Svo. 1829. Suppuration and Ulceration. Abernethy, J. Obs. on Tumours and Lumbar Abscesses. Svo. 1810. Andral (I. 189. Del Llceration, 1.388. Pus.), ut supra. Balfour, J. II. Probationary Essay on Purulent Deposits after Wounds and Operations. Svo. 1833. Bell, B. and I., ut supra. Blackadder, H. II. on Phagadtena Gangrenosa. Svo. 1818. Brande, T. W. In Phil. Tr. 1809. p.373. Brugmanns, S. I. De Puogenia, &e. 8vo. 1785. Callisen, H. System der Neueren Chir. 1822. p.559. note. Cooper, Sir A. Lectures on Surg., by F. Tyrrell, (vol. i.) 3 vol. Svo. 1824-7. Daucher. Momenta circa variam Puris Indolem, &c. 1804. Diet, des Sc. Med. (Petit.) Art. Depot. Diet, de Med. (Roux) Art. Abces.—Diet, de M6d. et Chir. Prat. (Dupuytren) Art. A litis. Cycl. of Prat. Med. (Tweedie) and Encycl. Worterb. (Richter) Art Ab- scess. Dupuy, J.M. Sur les Abces ou Tumeurs Purulentes. 1804. Encycl. Metho. Art. Abces. Ford, Ed. Obs. on the Dis. of the Hip-joints, (Ch. on Ab- scesses) Svo. 1794. Goebel, in Schweigger’s Journ., vol. iv. part iv. p. 408. Grashuis, ,/. Diss. on Suppuration. 8vo. 1747. Gruithuisen, P. Untersuchung iiber den Unterschied zwischen Eiter und Schleim durch das Mikroskop. 4to. 1809. with Engr. Hendy, J. Ess. on Glandular Secretion containing an exp. Enq. into thejformation of Pus. 8vo. 1775. Hoffmann, Sententia de Supp. Natura. 8vo. 1818. Home, Sir E. on the Properties of Pus. 4to. 1788.—Phil. Tr. 1S19. p. J. on the Conversion of Pus into new Flesh,—also on Ulcers of the Legs. 8vo. 1797. 2nd edit. 1801. Kaltenbrunner, G. in Heusinger’s Zeitschrift f. Organ-Physik. vol. i. Pt. III. p. 314. Koch, ut supra. Kupfer, II. E. de Inflam, et priesertim de Puris Generatione. 1828. Langenbeck, J. M. in neue Bibl. fiir die Chir. 12mo. 181*. —also his Nosologie der Chir. Krankheiten (2ter b.) 3 bde. Svo. 1822-25. Laurent, J. Essai sur la Supp. 8vo. 1803. Pearson, G. M.D. in Phil. Tr. 1811. p. 294-317. Obser. and Exp. on Pus. Petgold, V. de Diagnosi Puris. I827- Pramann, A. de Puris Indole et Genesi. 8vo. 1828. Quesnay, F. I raite de la Supp. 12mo. 1719. Richter, A. G. Anfangsgrundc dor Wundarzney- kunst (b. 1. Kap. 2.), 7 bde. Svo. Ite Aufl. 1804-25. Rixzetti, Rossi and Miche- lotti, in Mem. de I urin. vol. ii. and iii. Waldmann, Disquisitiones de Discrimine inter Pus et Pituitam. 1807. • On the Effects of Inflammation on Texture. Andral, (I. 91-298.) ut supra. Bon/laud, A. in Journ. des Prog, des Sc. Mfd. iv. 149. 1827. Rech. Hist, sur les Tissus Accidentals sans-analogues Bugayski,TIIE TREATMENT OF ABSCESSES. 538 Diss. de Part. Corp. hum. solid, simil. Aberrationibus. -4to. IS 13. -Carswell, op. cit. (v. a. p. 140.) Ease. xi. analogous tissues. Claras, A. Qua;stiones de Part’ibus Pseudo-Organicis. 8vo. 1805. Cruveilhier, op. cit. (v. a. 110.) Diet. A brig 6 ilea Se. Med. Art. Anat. Path., par MM. Bayle et Boisseau. Dumas, C. L. in Sedillot’s Journ. Gen. xxiii-xxv. sur les Transformations des Organes. Gisbert Can Brers, de Textura Organorum per Inflam. 1826. Hesse, ueber die Erwei- chung der Gewebe und Organe des menschl. Kdrpers. 8vo. 1827 Heusinger, System der Histologie, Pt. I. p. 87-103. 4to. 1822. and in the first Berichte von der Kiinigl. Anthropotomischcn Anstalt 211 Wurzburg, p. 1-41. 4to. 1826. Junge, de Pseudo-Plasmatum inCorp. Hum. obviorum Natura et Indole. 4to. 1822. Laennec, R. T. H. in Journal de Med. de Corvisart. XI. 360. and Diet, des Sc. Med. vol. ii. Art. Anat. Path. Marti,,, in Mem. de la Soc. M6d. d’Emulation. vii. on Organic Diseases. .1 fecket, J. h. op. cit. i. 531. des Formations Accidentelles. (v. a. p. 236.) ATopple, (Tit.) Sur les Fausses Membranes et les Adherences. 1812. Otto, A. fi. op. cit. (v. a. p. 237.) 1 illerme, Essai sur les Fausses Membranes. 4fo. 1814. Walther, in Journ. der Chir. vol. v. Pt. II. p. 196. Wenzel, C. ueber dei Induration, Sec. 8vo. 1815. Cellular Tissue. Aitkin, T. J. Essay on the Effects of Puncture received in Dissection. 8vo. 1826. Baillie, in Loud. Med. Rep. 1826. on Inflam, of Cell. Tissue. Butter, J. M.L). on Irritative Fever. 8vo. 1815. Creutzwieser, in Rust’s Magaz. f. d. Ges. Heiik. xxii. Pt. II. 338. Necrosis Tela; Cellulosic. Craigie, D. (Path. Anat. p. 32.) ut supra. Dohlhof, D. dePhlegnmn. 8vo. 1819. Duncan, A. M.D. in Edin. Med. and Chir. Tr. vol. i. 1824. on diffuse Cellular Inflam. Kirkland, T. M.D. An En- quiry into the present state of Med. Surgery, (ii. 282.) 2 vols. Svo. 1783. Arn«- mann, D. De Inflam. Tela; Mucosae. 1820. Otto, (p. 91.) ut supr. and Self. Beob. Pt. II. p. 41. Pauli, in Rust’s Magaz. f. d. Ges. Heiik. (1828) xxvii. 128. Scott, in Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ. xxiv. 225. on Diffuse Cellular Inflam. Testa:, A. J. in Rcemer Dissert. Med. Ital. Svo. note, de Cellulosse Tela Affectibns. Tracers, ut supra. Dermoidal Tissue. Alibert, J. L. Descriptions des Maladies de la Peau. Svo. 1816. and fol. 1825. Mo- nographic des Dermatoses 4to. 1832. Batemann, Th. M.D. A Practical Synopsis of Cutaneous Diseases. Svo. 1813-14. 6th edit. 1824. with Atlas of Delineations 1817. by Dr. A. T. Thompson, roy. 8vo. 1829. Craigie, (Path. Anat. p. 604.) ut supra. Danzer, Synopsis der Hnutkrunkheiten. 1808. Hutchison, C. in Med. Chir. Tr. v. 278. and xiv. 213. on Erysipelas. Kieser, iiber das Wesen und die Bedeutung der Exantheme. 1812. Lawrence, W. in Med. Chir. Tr. xiv. 1. on Erysipelas. Lorry, A. C. De Morbis Cutaneis Tractatus. 4to. 1777. Marcus, A. F. Die Exantheme ihre Esckenntriss und Heilart; 1812. Meckel, (p. 472 .) ut supra.——Nasshard, Skizze einer Derruatopathologie. 1816. Otto, (p. 117.) ut sup. Pl uck, J. J. De Morb. Cur. &c. Edit. 2da, Svo. 1783. Plumbe,S. on Diseases of the Skin. Svo. 1824. 2nd edit. 1827. Rayer, P. Traite Theor. et Prat, des Maladies de la Peau. 2 tom. Svo. 1826-7. tr. by Dr. Willis. 8vo. 1835. Serre, M. Nouveau Traitement Special d’Abortif de ITtiflam. de la Peau, du Tissu Cellulaire, ftc. Svo. 1837. Turner, D. Treatise of Diseases in- cident to the Skin, Sec. Svo. 1723. and 4th Edit. 1 to. 1731. Hillan, R., M.D. Description and Treatment of Cutaneous Diseases. 4to. 1798-1808.539 THE TREATMENT OF ABSCESSES. Mucous Tissue. Abercrombie, J., M.D. Path, and Pract. Researches on the Stomach, &c. 8vo. 1828. Bichat, X. Traitfi des Membranes en gineral, &c. 8vo. 1802 ; Ir. by J. Honlton. 8vo. 1821; and Anat. Gen. supra cit. (v. a. p. 139.) Billard, (’. De la Memb. Muquese gastro-intest. dans l’etatsain et dans l’etat inflam. 8vo. 1825. Breton- neau, P. Rech. sur l'Inflam. special du Tissu Muqueuse. 8vo. 1826. Cabanis, P. J. G. Observ. sur les Affections Catarrhales en general, 2de 6dit. Svo. 1813. Craigie, D. (Path. Anat. p. 667.) sup. cit.; and Practice of Physic, vol. i. (p.727.) Svo. 1836. Franc.abHildenbrand, (Th.) De Catarrhis. 4to. 1812. Hastings, ut supra. Hodgkin, F., M.D. Lectures on the Mucous and Serous Membranes, vol. i. Svo. 1837. Lejeune, (Th.) Inflam, du Systeme Muqueux. 4to. 1806. Letut, in Repert. Gen. d’Anat. et de Phys. Path. iii. P. i. p. 145, sur le Mugnet. Otto, (p. 101.) ut supra. Meckel, (p. 502, du Systeme Cutane Interne, 6tat anormal) ut supra. Serous Tissue. Andrat, (ii. 569, Maladies du Tissu Cellulaire et Membranes Sereuses,) ut supra. Belmas, D. Recherches sur tin moyen de determiner des Inflam, adhesives dans les Cavitfis Sfireuses. 8vo. 1831. Brodie, Sir B. On the Joints, (ch. i. ii. iii., on Dis- eases of the Synovial Memb.; and cli.ix., on Inflam.of the Bursa: Mucosae) 3rd edit. Svo. 1834. Charnel, D. F. sur le Rheumatisme, 1813. Cloquet, J. In Archiv. G6n. de M4d. sur les Ganglions. Craigie, (Path. Anat. pp. 759, 807.) ut supra. Herudg, D. De Morbis Bursarum Mucosarum. 4to. 1795. Koch, De Mor- bis Bursarum Tendinum Mucosorum. 1790; and Untersuchung des natiirl. Baues und der Krankheiten der Schleiinbeutel. 8vo. 1795. Lalialle, (Th.) sur l’ln- flam. du SystCme Sereux. 8vo. 1802. Lorich. De Sign is Inflam. Memb, Serosa- rum. 4to. 1812. Meckel, (i. 448., du Systdme S6reux, etat anorinal,) ut supra. Mnffait, Sur les I’hlegmasies des Memb. Synov. des Articulations. 8vo. 1810. Otto, (pp. 97, 373,) ut supra. Roche, Phlegmasies du Syst. Fibro-sereux des Articulations, (to. 1819. Sauveur Dc la I illeroye, J. T. Essai sur les Inflam. du Systeme Sereux et du Systeme Synovial. 4to. 1812. Villerande, De. la Fosse, Dis. sur Rheumatisme. 1815. Zinc, In Jour.Comp. duDic.des Sc. Med.xxi.24. sur les Fungus des Memb. Sereuses. Fibrous 'Tissue. Craigie, (Path. Anat. pp. 505, 511.) utsupra. Cravipton, P. InDubl. Hosp. Reports, i. 337,397.—On Periostitis. Gotz, G. De Morbis Ligamentorum, 4to. Huhn. De rite cognoscenda et curanda System. Fibr. Inflam. 8vo. 1820. Meiselbach. De Periostei Inflam. 8vo. 1824.—Otto, (pp. 233, 255.) ut supra. Royer, In Arch. Gen. de M6d. Mar. et Apr. 1823. Osseous and Cartilaginous Tissue. Bell,B. On the Diseases of Bones. 12mo. 1828. Boyer, M. Le Baron, Lectures on the Diseases ofBones.tr. by Forrel, 2 vols. Svo. 1804. Breschet, S. (Th.) Sur la Formation du Cal. 4to. 1819. Brodie, ut supra, and Med. Chir. Tr. xvtt.239. Charmeil, De la Regen. des Os. 1821. Craigie, (Path. Anat. p. 551.) ut supra. Cruveilhier, In Arch. Gen. de Med. Feb. 1824. p.161. Flormann, Delnflam. Ossium. 1799. Goetz. De Ostitide. 1822. Howship, 1. In Med. Chir. Tr. vi. 263. vii. 387-581. viii. 57. x. 176, 18 ; on the Morbid Appearances and Structure of Bones. Knox, In Edinb. Med. and Surg. Journ. 1822, 1823. Koeler, G. L.540 THE TREATMENT OF ABSCESSES. Exper. circa Regenerationem Ossium. 8vo. 1786. Mayo, II. In Med Chir Tr vol. 11. 104 on Ulcer, of the Cartilages. Meckel, (p. 327.) ut supra. Nan- mann, A. F. De Ostitide. 4to. 1818. Otto, (p. l45>) ut supra. Petit, J. L. Trane des Malad.es des Os, 2 tom. 8vo. 1723.-Le meme, revu et augmen.6, par Lo.rs, . tom. 12mo. 1784. Samoa, J. L. Expost- de la Doct. de Dupuytren, sur e Cal in Journ. Univ. des Sc. Med. xx. 131. Scarpa, A. De Anatome et Patho- logia Ossium. 4to. 1827. Scavini, J. M. Observ. sur une Exostose particultere prodmte de cause externe, &c. 8vo. 1810. Schramm. De Oss. Inflam. 1805. Syme, Jas. On Necrosis. 8vo. 1823. Weidmann, J. P. De Necrosi Ossium. fol. 1793. Wilson, J. Lect. on the Bones, &c. 8vo. 1820. Muscular Tissue. Cratgie (Path. Anat. p.493.) ut supra. Otto, (pp.250,281.) ut supra, and in Sell. Beob. part II. 40. Plouijuet, De Myostitide et Nevritide. 1790. Vascular Tissue. Abemethy, J. Surg. and Phys. Essays, part II. 8vo. 1793-7. Alard. De l’lnflam. des Vaisseatix Absorbcns, &c. 2de 6dit. 8vo. 1824. Arnott, J. M. In Med. Chir. Tr. xv. p. 1 ; a Pathological Enquiry into the Secondary Effects of Inflam, of the Veins. Breschet, In Journ. Comp.du Diet, des Sc. M6d. ii. 325. Bright, Op. cit. (v. a. p. 139.) Brodie, Sir B. C. In M6d. Chir. Tr. viii. 195. Carmichael, Observ. on Varix and Venous Inflam. Craigie, (Path. Anat. p. 88, 128, 143.) ut supra. Fcdeli, F. De Lymphangiotide, &c. 8vo. 1823. Fricke, Annalen des Hamburger Krankenhauses. 1826. with plates. Guthrie, In Land. Med. and Phys. Jour., July 1826. Hodgson, J. On Diseases of the Arteries and Veins. 8vo. 1815. Lee, R., M.D. In C’yc. of Pract. Med., Art. Veins ; and Med. Chir. Tr. xv. 132, 369. Locatelli, B. De Angiotide, &c. 1828. Longuet, (Th.) Infla-n. des eines. 4to. 1815. Osiander, Neue Denkwiirdigkeiten,i. p. 57. Otto. (p.327, Arteritis; p. 34a, Phlebitis; p. 358, Inflam, of Lymphatics,) ut supra. Bikes and Boutllaud, In Rev. Med. Fran, et Etrang. ii. 71, 448, and iii. Pt. iv. and vi. Sasse, De Vasorum Sang. Inflam. 1797. Schmuck, De Vasorum Sang. Inflam. 1793. Schwilgue, In Bibl. Med. xvi. 194; Hist, des Inflam, des Veines. Spangcnberg, In Horn’s Archiv. fur Med. Frfahrung. 1804. v. 269. Ueber die Entzundung der Arterien. Testa, A. J. Delle Malattie del Cuosi, 3 vols. 8vo. 1826. Travers, B. On Wounds and Ligatures of Veins, in Essays, by Cooper and Travers, part i. p. 227. Svo. 1818. Velpeau, In Arch. G6n. de Med. Oct. 1824. Nervous Tissue. Abercrombie, J., M.D. Research, on theDis.ofthe Brain and Spinal Cord. 8vo. and 2nd edit. 1829. Baylc, U. L. Traite des Maladies du Cerveau, Stc. Svo. 1826. Craigie, (pp. 281, 376,) ut supra. Graf. De Myostitidis Nosographia. 4to. 1823. Hooper, R., M.D. The Morbid Anat. of the Human Brain. 4to. 1826. Klohss, K L. Diss. de Myostitide. Svo. 1820.- Lallemand, F. Recli. Anat.-Path. sur l’Ence- phale, &c. Svo. 1824-9. Martinet, L. M4m. sur l’lnflam. des Nerfs. 1824; and Rev. Med. ii. 329, 354. Oltivier, C. P. De la Moelle Epiniere et de ses Maladies. 1824. Otto, (pp. 407, 437, 452.) ut supra. Find, P. in Journ. de Phys. i. 54. sur l’lnflam. de la Moelle Kpinidre. Rostan, L. ,V. Ilech. sur la Raniouillissement du Corveau. 8vo. 1820. and 2de 6dit. Svo. 1823. Velpeau, M. A. In Arch. Gen. de Med. vii. 52, 329, (1825.). M&n. sur line Alteration de la Moelle allongee, Stc.PART IV. CHAPTER I. OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. Gr UN-SHOT wounds may be said to be an effect of a modern improve- ment in offence and defence, unknown in the former mode of war, which is still practised where European improvements are not known ; and it is curious to observe that fire-arms and spirits are the first of our refine- ments that are adopted in uncivilized countries; and, indeed, for ages they have been the only objects that have ljeen at all noticed or sought after by rude nations. It was not till the fourteenth century that gun- powder was made, or rather compounded ; but it was not till afterwards applied to the purpose of projecting bodies. But even now the wounds received in war are not all gun-shot wounds : some, therefore, are simi- lar in many respects to those received in former times. The knowledge of the effect of gunpowder, and its application to the art of war, or the projection of bodies for the destruction of men, has been in some degree accompanied by improvements in the arts and sciences in general, and among others that of surgery, in which art the healing of wounds so produced makes a material part. In France, more especially, the study of both were carried to considerable lengths; but though the art of destruction has been there improved and illustrated by writings, it is rather surprising that the art of healing should not have been equally illustrated in the same manner \ Little has been ■written on this subject, although perhaps, when we take every circum- stance into consideration, it requires particular discussion; and what has been written is so superficial that it deserves but little attention. Practice, not precept, seemed to be the guide of all who studied in this [ Hw iliibcrality of this sarcasm has been amply atoned for by the judicious Ilen- nen, who, in his “ Introductory Remarks” to Military Surgery, has not scrupled to as- sign the chief rank to the military surgeons of France, previous to the time of Hunter, at the same time that he pays a well-deserved compliment to the admirable “ Memoirs of the French Academy of Surgery,” which were published in 1743-57.—Ptineiylet of Military Surgery, by John Hennen, M.I)., p. 12.]54 2 OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. branch; and if we observe the practice hitherto pursued, we shall find it very confined, being hardly reduced to the common rules of surgery, and therefore it was hardly necessary for a man to be a surgeon to prac- tise in the army. §. 1. The difference between Gun-shot Wounds and common Wounds. Gun-shot wounds are named, as is evident, from the manner in which they are produced ; from the frequency of their happening in the time of battle to a set of men appropriated for war, both by sea and land : and from the appointment of particular surgeons for their cure, they have been considered apart from other wounds, and are now become almost a distinct branch of surgery. Gun-shot wounds are made by the projection of hard obtuse bodies, the greatest number of which are musket-balls ; for cannon-balls, pieces of shells and stones from ramparts in sieges, or splinters of wood, etc., when on board of a ship in an engagement at sea, can hardly have their effects ranked among gun-shot wounds; thev will come in more pro- perly with wounds in general. As the wounds themselves made by those very different modes will in general differ very considerably, any peculiarity that may be necessary in the treatment of gun-shot wounds from those made by cannon-balls, shells, etc., or even common wounds, will generally belong to those made by musket-balls. The whole of gun-shot wounds will come within the definition of ac- cidents. They are a recent violence committed on the body, but they often become the cause of, or degenerate into, a thousand complaints which are the objects of surgery or physic, many of which are common to accidents in general, and to many other diseases. Of this kind are ab- scesses, ulcerating bones, and fistuke ; but some are peculiar to gun-shot wounds, as calculi in the bladder from the ball entering that viscus, con- sumption from wounds in the lungs, which I believe rarely happens ; for I cannot say I ever saw a case where such an effect took place. Hut it is the recent state in which they are distinguished, and in which they are to be considered as a distinct object of treatment. Wounds of this kind vary from one another, which will happen ac- cording to circumstances : these variations will be in general according to the kind of body projected, the velocity of the body, with the nature and peculiarities of the parts injured. The kind of body projected, I have observed, is principally musket-balls, sometimes cannon-balls.OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 543 sometimes pieces of broken shells, and very often, on board of ship, splinters of wood. Indeed, the effects of cannon-balls on different parts of the ship, either the containing parts, as the hull of the ship itself, or the contained, are the principal causes of wounds in the sailor; for a cannon-ball must go through the timbers of the ship before it can do more execution than simply as a ball, (which makes it a -spent ball,) and which splinters the inside of the ship very considerably, and moves other bodies in the ship, neither of which it would do if moving with sufficient velocity; musket- or cannon-balls seldom doing immediate injury to those of that profession. The wounds produced by the three last bodies will be more like many common and violent accidents, at- tended with much contusion and laceration of parts. Gun-shot wounds, from whatever cause, whether from a musket-ball, canuon-ball, shell, etc., are in general contused wounds, from which contusion there is most Commonly a part of the solids surrounding the wound deadened, as the projecting body forced its way through these solids, which is afterwards thrown off" in form of a slough, and which prevents such wounds from healing by the first intention, or by means of the adhesive inflammation, from which circumstance most of them must be allowed to suppurate. This does not always take place equally in every gun-shot wound, nor in every part of the same wound ; and the difference commonly arises from the variety in the velocity of the body projected; tor we find in many cases where the ball has passed with little velocity, which is often the case with balls even at their en- trance, but most commonly at the part last wounded by the ball, that the wounds are often healed by the first intention. Gun-shot wounds, from the circumstance of commonly having a part killed, in general do not inflame so readily as those from other acci- dents : this backwardness to inflame will be in the proportion that the quantity of deadened parts bears to the extent of the wound ; from which circumstance the inflammation is later in coming on, more espe- cially when a ball passes through a fleshy part with great velocity, be- cause there will be a great deal deadened, in proportion to the size of the wound : therefore inflammation in gun-shot wounds is less than in wounds in general, where the same quantity of mischief has been done ; and this also is in an inverse proportion to the quantity of the parts deadened, as 1 have already explained in my introduction to inflamma- tion, ' iz. that inflammation is less where parts are to slough than where parts have been destroyed by other means. On the other hand, where the ball has fractured some bone, which fracture in the bone has done considerable mischief to the soft parts, independently of the ball, thenOF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 5-i-i there will be nearly us quick inflammation as in a compound fracture of the same bone, because the deadened part bears no proportion to the laceration or wound in general. From this circumstance, of a part being often deadened, a gun-shot wound is often not completely understood at first; for it is at first, in many cases, impossible to know what parts are killed, whether bone, tendon, or soft part, till the deadened part has separated, which often makes it a much more complicated wound than at first was known or imagined ; for it very often happens that some viscus, or a part of some viscus, or a part of a large artery, or even a bone, has been killed by the blow, which does not show itself till the slough comes away. If, for instance, it is a part of an intestine thht has received a contusion so as to kill it, and which is to slough, a new symptom will most pro- bably appear from the sloughs being separated, the contents of the in- testine will most probably come through the wound, and probably the same thing will happen when any other containing viscus is in’part deadened; but those cases will not be so dangerous as if the same loss had been produced at first, for by this time all communication will be cut off between the containing and contained parts : nor will it be so dangerous as when a considerable blood-vessel is deadened; for in this case, when the slough comes off, the blood, getting a free passage into the wound, as also out of it, probably death will immediately follow. If this artery is internal, nothing can be done; if in an extremity, the vessel may be either taken up, or probably amputation may be neces- sary to save the person’s life; therefore an early attention should be paid to accidents where such an event is possible. In case of a bone being deadened an exfoliation takes place. Gun-shot wounds are often such as do much mischief to vital parts, the effects of which will be according to the nature of the parts wounded and the violence of the wound; and also to parts, the soundness of which are essential either to the health of the whole, or to the uses of the parts wounded : such as some viscus, whose contents are voided through the opening or joints, the disposition of which is slow to heal, and whose uses are impeded when healed. Gun-shot wounds often admit of being classed with the small and deep-seated wounds, which are always of a particular kind respecting the cure. File variety of circumstances attending gun-shot wounds is almost endless: the following case may be given as an example. An officer in the navy was wounded by a pistol-ball in the right side, about the last rib; it entered about five inches from the navel, and ap- peared on the inside of the skin about two inches from the spinal pro-OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 545 cess, having passed in, I believe, among the abdominal muscles. The on y remarkable thing that occurred was that the cellular membrane for some way about the passage of the ball was cedematous, and when I cut out the ball air came out with it. §• 2. Of the different Effects arising from the difference in the Velocity of the Ball. Many of the varieties between one gun-shot wound and another arise from the difference in the velocity of the body projected j and they are principally the following. If the velocity of the ball is small, then the mischief is less in all of em, t lere is not so great a chance of their being compounded with ractures of the bones, &c.; but if the velocity is sufficient to break the ! J® hltS' the bone wlH ,,e much more splintered than if the velocity .u >een very considerable, for where the velocity is very great, the ball to fi TCrkeS a/!eCe °Ut; however’ a]I this "ill also vary according frequent 88 h™6' “ b°ne the 8Plintere will be mos^ When the velocity is small, the direction of the wound produced bv the ball will m common not be so straight, therefore its direction not so readily ascertained, arising from the easy turn of the ball U hen the velocity is small the deadened part or slough is always less • wheT LaveTat 17 * baU W0UW S6em only t0 divide parts! while when the velocity is great the contrary must happen. From this cir- cumstance it is that the slough is larger at that orifice where the ball enteis than where it comes out; and if the ball meets with a great deal of instance in its passage through, there will very probably be no slouch at aU at its exit which will be therefore only a derated wound & The greater the velocity of the ball the cleaner it wounds the parts • whfch S° aS ^ m°St.t0 be Similar t0 a cut with a sharp instrument, from “C—CC ^ T1" bC imagined that there should be a waller ^rfmen^would8156? ‘ ^ *> the best cutting . trument n ould produce a slough on the cut edges of the divided parts or the d.vuied parts not giving way equally to the velocity of the divid- ing body, must of course be proportionally bruised Gun-shot wounds are attended with less bleeding than most others • mwever some will be attended with this symptom more than others’ is produced U1B1 ThlS anSe3 fr°m the raanner in which the wound _ 1 oduced. Bleeding arises from a vessel being cut or broken • but e freedom of bleeding arises from the manner in which this is done • ' Oh. Ill, 2 •546 OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. if the artery is cut directly across, and it is done by a ball passing with a considerable velocity, it will bleed pretty freely ; if bruised, and in some degree torn, then it will bleed less. When the velocity of the ball is small, the vessels will be principally torn, for they will have time to stretch before the continuity of their parts gives way; but if it is great they will bleed more freely, because velocity will make up for want of sharpness. According to the velocity of the ball so is the direction. When the velocity is great, the direction of the ball will be in general more in a straight line than when it is small; for under such circumstances the ball more easily overcomes obstructions, and therefore passes on in its first direction. Velocity in the ball makes parts less capable of healing than when it moves with a small velocity ; therefore gun-shot wounds in pretty thick parts are in general later of healing at the orifice where the ball enters than at the orifice where it passes out, because it becomes in some de- gree a spent ball, the part having less slough, being only torn, which will often admit of being healed by the first intention. In cases where the ball passes through, and in such a direction as to have one orifice more depending than the other, I have always found that the depending orifice healed soonest, and more certainly so if the ball came out that way, and also if the ball had been pretty much spent in its passage; therefore it will require art to keep the depending ori- fice open, if thought necessary. But this circumstance of its being a spent ball will not always happen; because if the person is near the gun when fired, the velocity of the ball will be very little diminished in its progress through the soft parts, and therefore it will have nearly the same velocity on both sides. This fact of the lower orifice healing soonest is common to allAvounds, and I believe is owing to the tumefaction which generally arises from the extravasated fluid always descending to the lower part; and being retarded at the lower orifice, it is as it were stopped there, and presses the sides of the wound together, obliging it to heal, if the parts have not been deadened. This is evidently the case after the introduction of the seton in the hydrocele, especially if the two orifices of the seton are at some distance; but in the hydrocele there is a more striking reason for it, for in this disease the extravasated fluids are wholly detained about the lower orifice, as there is no depending part for the fluid to descend to.OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 547 §• 3. Of the different kinds of Gun-shot Wounds. Gun-shot wounds may be divided into the simple and the compound. Simple, when the ball passes into or through the soft parts only; the compound will be according to the other parts wounded. The first species of compound are those attended with fractures of the hones, or with the wound of some large artery. The second species of compound wounds is, where the hall penetrates into some of the larger circumscribed cavities. This last, or penetrating wound, may be doubly complicated, or may be divided into two. First, simply penetrating; and, secondly, where some viseus or contained part, as the brain, lungs’ heart, abdominal viscera, &c„ is injured; all which cases will be taken notice of in their proper places. •2 >• 254S OF TIIF. TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. CHAPTER II. OF THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. XT has been hitherto recommended, and universally practised by almost every surgeon, to enlarge immediately upon their being received, or as soon as possible, the external orifice of all gun-shot wounds made by musket-balls. So much has this practice been recommended, that they have made no discrimination between one gun-shot wound and another. This would appear to have arisen, and to be still continued, from an opinion that gun-shot wounds have a something peculiar to them, and of course are different from all other wounds, and that this peculiarity is removed by the opening. I own that I do not see any peculiarity. The most probable way of accounting for the first introduction of this practice is from the wound in general being small, and nearly of a size from one end to the other ; also the frequency of extraneous bodies being forced into these wounds by the ball, or the ball itself remaining there; for the way in which these wounds are made is by the introduction of an extraneous body, which is left there, if it has not made its way through, so that the immediate cause of the wound makes a lodgement for itself, often carrying before it clothes, and even the parts of the body wounded, such as the skin, &c. From hence it would naturally appear at first view that there was an immediate necessity to search after those extra- neous bodies, which very probably led the surgeon to do it; and in gene- ral the impossibility of finding them, and even of extracting them when found, without dilatation, gave the first idea of opening the mouths ot the wounds. But from experience they altered this practice in part, and became not so desirous of searching after these extraneous bodies ; for they found that it was oftener impossible to find them than could at first have been imagined, and when found, that it was not possible to extract them, and that afterwards these bodies were brought to the skin bv the parts themselves, and those that could not be brought to the ex- ternal surface in this way were such as gave little or no trouble after- wards, such as balls. Yet they altered this practice only so far as re- spected the attempt to extract extraneous bodies; for when they found from experience that it was not necessary nor possible to extract theseOF THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 549 immediately, yet they did not see that it therefore was not necessary to take the previous or leading steps towards it. The circumstance I have mentioned of gun-shot wounds being con- tused obliges most of them to suppurate, because in such cases there is more or less of a slough to be thrown off, especially at the orifice made by the entrance of the ball: there is therefore a freer passage for the matter, or any other extraneous substance, than the same-sized wound would have if made by a clean cutting instrument, even if not allowed to heal by the first intention. From all which, if there is no peculiarity in a gun-shot wound, I think this of dilating them, as a general practice, should be rejected at once • even if it were only for this reason, that few gun-shot wounds are alike! and therefore the same practice cannot apply to all. i’his treatment of gun-shot wounds is diametrically opposite to a prin- ciple which is generally adopted in other cases, although not understood as a general rule, which is, that very few wounds of any kind require surgical treatment at their commencement, excepting with an opposite view from the above, viz. to heal them by the first intention. It is con- trary to all the rules of surgery founded on our knowledge of the animal ceconomy to enlarge wounds simply as wounds. No wound, let it be ever so small, should be made larger, excepting when preparatory to something else, which will imply a complicated wound, and which is to be treated accordingly; it should not be opened because it is a wound, but because there is something necessary to be done which cannot be executed unless the wound is enlarged. This is common surgery, and ought also to be military surgery respecting gun-shot wounds. As a proof of the inutility of opening gun-shot wounds as a general practice, I shall mention the cases of four Frenchmen and a British soldier wounded on the day of the landing of our army on the island of Belleisle; and as this neglect rather arose from accident than design there is no merit claimed from the mode of treatment. A. B. was wounded in the thigh by two balls: one went quite through the other lodged somewhere in the thigh, and was not found while he was under our care. B. C. was shot through the chest: he spit blood for some little time C. D was shot through the joint of the knee : the ball entered at the outer edge of the patella, crossed the joint under that bone, and came out through the inner condyle of the os femoris. D. E. was shot in the arm: the ball entered at the inside of the in- sertion of the deltoid muscle, passed towards the head of the os humeris then between the scapula and ribs, and lodged between the basis of the scapula and spinal processes, and was afterwards extracted. The man’s550 OK THIS TREATMENT OF GUN SHOT WOUNDS. arm was extended horizontally when the ball entered, which accounts for this direction. These four men had not anything done to their wounds for four days after receiving them, as they had hid themselves in a farm house all that time after we had taken possession of the island; and when they were brought to the hospital their wounds were only dressed superficially, and they all got well. A grenadier of the 30th regiment was shot through the arm ; the ball seemed to pass between the biceps muscle and the bone; he was taken prisoner by the French. The arm swelled considerably, they fomented it freely, and a superficial dressing only was applied. About a fort- night after the accident he made his escape, and came to our hospital; but by that time the swelling had quite subsided, and the wounds healed ; there only remained a stiffness in the joint of the elbow, which went off by moving it. § 1. Of the propriety of diluting Gun-Shot Wounds. It would be absurd for any one to suppose that there is never occasion to dilate gun-shot wounds at all; but it is certain there are very few in which it is necessary®. It will be impossible to determine by any general description what those are that ought to be opened, and what those are that ought not; that must be left in a great measure to the dis- cretion of the surgeon, when once he is master of the arguments on both sides. Some general rules may be given with regard to the more simple cases; but with regard to the more complicated, the particular circumstances of each case are the only guide; and they must be treated according to the general principles of surgery. Let us first give an idea of the wound that would appear to receive no benefit from being dilated; and first of the most simple wounds. If a ball passes through a fleshy part where it can hurt no bone in its way, such as the thick of the thigh, I own, in such a simple wound, I see no reason for opening it; because I see no purpose that can be answered by it, except the shortening of the depth of the wound made by the ball, which can be productive of no benefit. If the ball does not pass through, and is not to be found, opening can be of as little service. ° [The practice of dilating gun-shot wounds was forcibly inculcated by Ambrose Pare and Wiseman, and afterwards, in 1792, by Baron Percy, who in his Manuel tie Chirur- gien d'Jrmie, says, “ The first indication of cure is to change the nature of the wound as nearly as possible into an incised one.” The judicious restriction of this practice to such cases as are pointed out in the concluding part of this section was fully borne out by the experience of our army surgeons during the late war.OF THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. ,551 If the opening in the skin should be objected to as being too small, and thereby forming an obstruction to the exit of the slough, etc., I think that in general it is not; for the skin is kept open by its own elasti- city, as we see in all wounds : this elasticity muscles and many other parts have not; and in general the opening made by a ball is much larger than those made by pointed instruments; for I have already observed that there is often a piece of the skin carried in before the ball, espe- cially if it passed with considerable velocity, besides the circular slough; so that there is really in such cases a greater loss of substance; there- fore whatever matter or extraneous body there is, when it comes to the skin it will find a free passage out. Nor does the wound in the skin in general heal sooner than the bottom; and indeed in many cases not so soon, because the skin is generally the part that has suffered most. However, this is not an absolute rule, for the skin sometimes heals first; but I have found this to be the case as often where openings had been made as in those where they had not; and this will depend upon circumstances or peculiarities; such as the bottom being at a consider- able distance, with extraneous bodies, and having no disposition to heal, tending to a fistula; and I have observed in those cases, that the wound or opening made by the surgeon generally skinned to a small hole before the bottom of the wound was closed, which brings it to the state it Mould have been in, if it had not been dilated at all, especially if there are extraneous bodies still remaining; for an extraneous body causes and keeps up the secretion of matter, or rather keeps up the disease at the bottom of the wound, by which means the healing disposition of its mouth is in some degree destroyed. I.et me state a case of this last description. Suppose a wound made with a ball; that wound (from circumstances) is not to heal in six months, because the extraneous bodies, etc. cannot be extracted, or work out sooner, or some other circumstance prevents the cure in a shorter time: open that wound as freely as may be thought necessary, I will engage that it will be in a month’s time in the same state with a similar wound that has not been opened, so that the whole advantage (if there is any) must be before it comes to this state; but it is very seldom that anything of consequence can be done in that time, because the extra- neous bodies do not come out at first so readily as they do at last, for the inflammation and tumefaction, which'extend beyond that very opening, generally keep them in; and if the wound is opened on their account at first, it ought to be continued to the very last. Upon the same principle, opening on account of extraneous bodies at first cannot be of so much service as opening some time after ; for the suppuration, with its leading causes, viz. inflammation and sloughing, all along the552 OF THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. passage of the ball, makes the passage itself much more determined and more easily followed; for the want of which few extraneous bodies arc ever extracted at the beginning, excepting what are superficial, small, and loose. If the extraneous bodies are broken bones, it seldom happens that they are entirely detached, and therefore must loosen before they can come away; also the bones in many cases are rendered dead, either by the blow or by being exposed, and must exfoliate, and this requires some time; for in gun-shot wounds, where bones are either bruised or broken, there is most commonly an exfoliation, because some part of the bone is deadened, similar to the slough in the soft parts. A reason given for opening gun-shot wounds is, that it takes off the tension arising from the inflammation and gives the part liberty ; this would be very good practice if tension or inflammation were not a con- sequence of wounds ; or it would be very good practice, if they could prove that the effects from dilating a part that was already wounded were very different, or quite the reverse of those of the first wound; but as this [dilatation] must always be considered as an extension of the first mischief, we must suppose it to produce an increase of the effects arising from that mischief; therefore this practice is contradictory to common sense and common observation. They are principally the com- pound wounds that require surgical operations, and certain precautions are necessary with regard to them, which I shall here lay down. As the dilatation of gun-shot wounds is a violence, it will be neces- sary to consider well what relief can be given to the parts or patient by such an operation ; and whether without it more mischief would ensue ; it should also be considered what is the proper time for dilating. But it will be almost impossible to state what wound ought, and what ought not to be opened ; this must always be determined by the surgeon, after he is acquainted with the true state of the case and the general principles ; but from what has been already said, we may in some measure judge what those wounds are that should be opened, in order to pro- duce either immediate relief, or to assist in the cure: we must have some other views than those objected to; we must see plainly something to be done for the relief of the patient by this opening, which cannot be procured without it, and if not procured, that the part cannot heal, or that the patient most probably must lose his life. The practice to be recommended here will be exactly similar to the common practice of surgery, without paying any attention to the cause as a gun-shot wound. One of the principal points of practice will be to determine at what period of time the dilatation should be made. 1. If the wound should be a slight one, and should require opening,OF THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 553 it will be better to do it at the beginning before inflammation comes on; for the inflammation, in consequence of both, will be slight; but in slight cases dilatation will never be necessary, except to allow of the extrac- tion of some extraneous body that is near. But if the wound is a con- siderable one, and it should appear upon consideration that you cannot relieve immediately any particular part or the constitution, then you can gain nothing by opening immediately, but will only increase the inflammation, and in some cases the inflammation arising from the ac- cident and opening together may be too much for the patient: under this last circumstance it would be more advisable to wait till the first inflammation ceases, by which means the patient will stand a much better chance of a cure, if not of his life ; therefore it is much better to divide the inflammations : however, it is possible that the inflammation may arise from some circumstance in the wound which could be re- moved by opening it; for instance, a ball or broken bone pressing upon some part, whose actions are either essential to the life of the part or the whole, as some large artery, nerve, or vital part; in such the case will determine for itself. On the other hand, it may in many cases be better to remove the whole by an operation, when in such parts as will admit of it, which will be taken notice of. 2. If an artery is wounded, where the patient is likely to become either too weak, or to lose his life from the loss of blood, then cer- tainly the vessel is to be tied, and most probably this cannot be done without previously opening the external parts, and often freely. 3. In a wound of the head where there is reason to suspect a frac- ture of the skull, it is necessary to open the scalp, as in any other com- mon injury done to the head where there was reason to suspect a frac- ture ; and when opened, if a fracture is found, it is to be treated as any other fractured skull8. 4. Where there are fractured bones in any part of the body, which can be immediately extracted with advantage, and which would do much mischief if left, this becomes a compound fracture wherever it is, and it makes no difference in the treatment whether the wound in the skin was made by a ball or the bone itself, at least where the compound fracture is allowed to suppurate; for there is often a possibility of treating a compound fracture as a simple one, which gun-shot fractures, if I may be allowed the expression, seldom will allow of; but where the com- pound fracture must suppurate, there they are very similar. However, there have been instances where a fracture of the thigh-bone made by a ball has healed in the same way as a compound fracture by other means. * [See Vol. I. p. 190, note,]554 OF TIIE TREATMENT OF GUN-SIIOT WOUNDS. 5. Where there is some extraneous body which can with very little trouble be extracted, and where the mischief by delay will probably be greater than that arising from the dilatation. 6. Where some internal part is misplaced, which can be replaced im- mediately in its former position, such as in wounds in the belly, where some of the viscera are protruded, and it becomes necessary to perform the operation of gastroraphia ; which is to be done in this case in the same manner as if the accident arose from any other cause; but the treatment should be different, for gun-shot cases cannot heal by the first intention, on account of the slough that is to ensue. 7. hen some vital part is pressed, so that its functions are lost or much impaired, such as will often happen from fractures of the skull, fractures of the ribs, sternum, etc., in short, when anything can be done to the part after the opening is made for the present relief of the pa- tient, or the future good arising from it. If none of these circumstances has happened, then I think we should be very quiet. Balls that enter any of the larger cavities, such as the abdomen or thorax, need not have their wounds dilated, except something else is necessary to be done to the contained parts, for it is impossible to follow the ball; therefore they are commonly not opened, and yet we find them do very well. Balls that enter any part where they cannot be followed, such as into the bones of the face, need not have the wound in the skin in the least enlarged, as it can give no assistance to the other part of the wound, which is a bony canal. The following cases are strongly in proof of this, being respectively instances of both modes of practice. I was sent for to an officer who was wounded in the cheek by a ball, and who had all the symptoms of an injured brain ; upon examining the parts, I found that the ball had passed directly backwards through the cheek-bone; therefore, from the symptoms and from the direction of the wound, I suspected that the ball had gone through the basis of the skull into the brain, or at least had produced a depression of the skull there. I enlarged the external wound, and with my fingers could feel the coronoid process of the lower jaw; I found that the ball had not entered the skull, but had struck against it about the temporal process of the sphenoid bone, which it had broke, and afterwards passed down on the inside of the lower jaw. With a pair of small forceps I extracted all I could of the loose pieces of bone: lie soon recovered from his stu- por, and also from his wound. The ball afterwards caused an inflam- mation at the angle of the lower jaw, and was extracted. The good which I proposed by opening and searching for extraneous bodies and loose pieces of bone was the relieving of the brain ; but as the ball had not entered the skull, and as none of the bones had been driven into theOF tills TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 55.5 bruin, it is most probable that I did no good by iny opening ; 'but that I could not foresee. An officer received a wound by a ball in the cheek (which in this case was on the opposite side) ; the wmund led backwards, as iu the other; by putting my finger into the wound I felt the coronoid process of the lower jaw, as in the former; but he had no symptoms of an in- jured brain; I therefore advised not to open it, because the reason for opening in the preceding case did not exist here; my advice was com- plied with, and the wound did well, and rather better than the former, by healing sooner. The ball was never found, so far as I know. The present practice is not to regard the balls themselves, and seldom or ever to dilate upon their account, nor even to search much after them when the wound is dilated, which shows that opening is not ne- cessary, or at least not made upon account of extraneous bodies. This practice has arisen from experience ; for it was found that balls, when obliged to be left, seldom or ever did any harm when at rest, and when not in a vital part; for balls have been known to lie in the body for years, and are often never found at all, and yet the person has found no inconvenience. This knowledge of the want of power in balls to pro- mote inflammation when left in the body, arose from the difficulty, of finding them, or extracting them when found, and therefore in many cases they were obliged to leave them. One reason for not readily finding the ball at first is, because the parts are only torn and divided, without any loss of substance (till the slough comes off), by which means the parts collapse and fall into their places again, which makes it difficult to pass anything in the direction of the ball, or even to know' its direction. The different courses they take, by being turned aside by some resisting body, add also to the difficulty, as will be explained. But the course of a ball, if not perpendicular, but passing obliquely and not very deep a little way under the skin, probably an inch or more, is easy to be traced through its whole course, for the skin over the whole passage of the ball generally is marked by a reddish line. I have seen this redness, even when the ball has gone pretty deep; it has none of the appearances of inflammation, nor of extravasation, for extravasation i» of a darker colour, and what it is owing to I have not been able to discover. I can conceive it to be something similar to a blush, only the small vessels allowing the red particles of the blood to flow more easily.556 OF THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. §• 2. Of the strange Course of some Hulls. 1 lie difficulty of finding balls, I have just observed, often arises from the irregular course they take. The regularity of the passage of a bidl will in general be in proportion to its velocity and want of resistance, tor balls are turned aside in an inverse proportion to the force that they come with, and this is the reason why we seldom find them take a straight course; for if they are spent balls, the soft parts alone are capable of turning them; and if they come with a considerable velocity it is a chance they may hit some bone obliquely, and then they are also turned aside, for any body that gives a ball the least oblique resistance throws it out of its direct course ; therefore the balls that do not pass through and through (which are the only ones that are searched after), will be in general spent ones, excepting those that come directly against some considerable bone, as the thigh-bone, etc. As a proof that balls are easily thrown off obliquely, we often find that a ball shall enter the skin of the breast obliquely, and afterwards shall pass almost round the whole body under the skin. The skin here is strong enough to stop the ball coming out again, so that it turns it inwards, which, meeting with the ribs, it is again turned out against the skin, and so on alternately as long as it has force to go on; however, in many cases the ball goes a little way after it has passed through the skin, and when it meets with any hard body on that side next the centre of the body, such as a rib, its course is directed outwards, and it pierces the skin a second time; but the velocity of such balls must have been considerable. I have seen a ball pass in at one side of the shin-bone, and run across it under the skin, without either cutting the skin across or hurting the bone, which shows that the velocity could not be great; for we know that there is not sufficient room between these two parts in a natural state for a ball to pass; but the ball, after it had got under the skin, where there was room for it to cover itself, then came against the tibia, which threw it outwards, and the skin counteracting, it only raised the skin from the tibia, and passed on between them; but if this ball had had a sufficient velocity it would have either cut the skin across, or taken a piece out of the bone, or most probably both. Another circumstance in favour of the uncertainty of their direction is, that the parts wounded are often not in the same position that they were when they received the ball. The French soldier who was wounded in the arm was a striking instance of this. The ball entered the arm about its middle on the inside of the biceps muscle, and it was extracted from between the two scapulae, close on one side of the spinal processOF THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 557 of the back-bone. The reason of this strange course I have already observed in the case, was owing to his having had his arm stretched out horizontally at the time he was wounded, and the ball passed on in a straight line. These uncertainties in the direction of the balls above mentioned have made the common bullet-forceps almost useless; yet forceps are not to be entirely thrown aside, for it will often happen that a ball will be found to lie pretty near the external wound, which, if the ball was re- moved, would probably heal by the first intention ; for in such superficial wounds they must have passed with little velocity; or if there was a part killed, it would heal immediately; but if there is a slough, the ex- traction is best done after all inflammation, and the separation of the slough is over, for then the passage of the ball is better ascertained, in consequence of the surrounding adhesive inflammation ; and moreover, the granulations are beginning to push the extraneous body towards the surface; but the operation of ulceration, which brings it to the skin, being often too slow, the ball, etc. had better be extracted, and even the part might be dilated. However, I would be very cautious how far I carried this practice, and only do it when all circumstances favoured. For the same reasons probes are become of little use ; indeed, I think that they should never be used but by way of satisfaction, in knowing sometimes what mischief is done; we can perhaps feel if a bone is touched, or if a ball is near, etc., but when all this is known it is a hun- dred to one if we can vary our practice in consequence of it. If the wound will admit of it, the finger is the best instrument. In cases where the ball passes a considerable way under the skin, and near to it, I think it would be advisable to make an opening midway between the two orifices which were made by the ball (especially when the orifices are at a very great distance), that fractured bones, or extra- neous bodies may now or hereafter be better extracted; for if this is not done we have often an abscess forming between them, which indeed answers the same purpose, and often better; but sometimes it should not be delayed for such an event to take place. Where the ball has passed immediately under the skin, as in the case where the ball passed between the skin and tibia, it will be often proper to open the whole length of the passage of the ball, the necessity of wliicli I think arises from the skin not so readily uniting with the parts underneath, as muscles do with one another. Although we have given up in a great measure the practice of search- ing after a ball, broken bones, or any other extraneous bodies, yet it often happens that a ball shall pass on till it comes in contact with theOOS OF THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. skin of some other part, and where it can be readily felt; the question is. should such a ball be cut out ? If the skin is bruised by the ball coming against it, so that we may imagine that this part will slough off, in that case I see nothing to hinder opening it, because the part is dead ; there- fore no more inflammation can arise from the opening than otherwise would take place upon allowing the slough to be thrown off; while, on the other hand, I should also suppose as little good to arise from it, be- cause the ball will come out of itself when the part sloughs off; how- ever, it may be suspected that before the slough falls off the ball may so alter its situation that it will be impossible to extract it by that opening ; however, I should very much doubt the ball altering its course under such circumstances, for if the skin was so much bruised as to slough, inflammation would soon come on, and confine the ball to that place; however, it always gives comfort to the patient to have the ball extracted. But if the ball is only to be felt, and the skin quite sound, I would in that case advise letting it alone, till the wound made by the entrance of the ball had inflamed and was suppurating; my reasons for it are these : First, we find that most wounds get well when the ball is left in, (ex- cepting it has done other mischief than simply passing through the soft parts,) and that very little inflammation attends the wound where the ball lodges, only that where it enters ; the inflammation not arising so much from the injury done by the ball as from the parts being there exposed to the suppurative inflammation, if it is immediately removed. There is always a greater chance of a slough where the ball enters than where it rests, arising from the greater velocity of the ball; for beyond where the slough is the parts unite by the first intention. Secondly, in those cases where the ball passes through and through we have two inflammations, one at each orifice, instead of the one at the entrance; or a continued inflammation through and through, if the ball has passed with great velocity. Where the ball makes its exit, the inflammation passes further along the passage of the ball than when the wound has been healed up to the ball, and then cut out after- wards ; so that by opening immediately the irritation will be extended further, and of course the disposition for healing will be prevented. If this is the case, I think that two wounds should not be made at the same time; and what convinces me more of it is, that I have seen cases where the balls were not found at first, nor even till after the pa- tients had got well of their wounds; and these balls were found very near the skin. They gave no trouble (or else they would have been found sooner); no inflammation came upon the parts, and they were afterwards extracted and did well. Again, I have seen cases where theOF THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 559 balls were found at first and cut out immediately, which were similar to balls passing through and through ; and in these the same inflamma- tion came on the cut wounds that came on the wounds made by the en- trance of the ball. §.3. Penetrating Tf'ounds of the Abdomen. Wounds leading into the different cavities of the body arc very com- mon in the army, and in a great measure peculiar to war. They are mostly gun-shot wounds, hut not always, some being made with sharp- pointed weapons, as swords, bayonets, &c.; they are pretty similar, in whatever way they are made, and I have given them a name expressive of the nature of the wound. I shall not take notice of any of this kind but those which penetrate into the larger cavities, as the abdomen, thorax, and skull; but those into the skull are made most commonly by halls, shells, &c. These wounds become more or less dangerous according to the mis- chief done to the contents of the cavity into which they penetrate. These wounds may be distinguished according as they are simply pe- netrating, without extending to the contained parts, or as they affect these parts, and the event of these two kinds of wounds is very dif- ferent ; for in the first little danger is to be expected if properly treated, but in the second the success will be very uncertain, for very often nothing can be done for the patient under such wounds, and very often a good deal of art can be made use of with advantage. Wounds of the parietes of the abdomen, not immediately inflicted on such a viscus as has the power of containing other matter, will in ge- neral do well, let the instrument that made the wound be what it will*. There will be a great difference, however, should that instrument be a ball passing with great velocity, for in this case a slough wall be pro- duced ; but if it should pass with little velocity, then there will be less sloughing, and the parts will in some degree heal by the first intention, similar to those made by a cutting instrument. But although the ball has passed with such velocity as to produce a slough, yet that wound shall do well, for the adhesive inflammation will take place on the peri- toneum all round the w'ound, which will exclude the general cavity from taking part in the inflammation, although the ball has not only pene- trated but has w'ounded parts which are not immediately essential to life, such as the epiploon, mesentery, &c., and perhaps gone quite through * What 1 mean by a containing viscus is a viscus that contanis some foreign matter, as the stomach, bladder, ureters, gall-bladder, &c., to which I may add blood-vessels.560 OF THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. the body; yet it is to be observed that wherever there is a wound, and whatever solid viscus may be penetrated, the surfaces in contact, sur- rounding every orifice, will unite by the adhesive inflammation, so as to exclude entirely the general cavity, by which means there is one con- tinued canal wherever the ball or instrument has passed ; or if any ex- traneous body should have been carried in, such as clothes, &c., they will also be included in these adhesions, and both these and the slough will be conducted to the external surface by either orifice. All Mounds that enter the belly, which have injured some viscus, are to be treated according to the nature of the wounded part, with its com- plications, which will be many, because the belly contains more parts of very dissimilar uses than any other cavity in the body, each of which will produce symptoms peculiar to itself and the nature of the wound. The wounding of the several viscera will often produce what may be called immediate and secondary symptoms, which will be peculiar to themselves, besides what are common to simple wounds, such as bleed- ing, which is immediate, and inflammation and suppuration, which are seeondarj . Sensations alone will often lead to the viscus wounded, and Ibis is frequently one of the first symptoms. I he immediate symptoms arising from wounds in the different viscera are as follows: From a wound in the liver there will be pain in the part of the sickly or depressing kind ; and it it is in the right lobe, there will be a delu- sive pain in the right shoulder, or in the left shoulder from a wound in the left lobe. A wound in the stomach will produce great sickness and vomiting of blood, and sometimes a delirium ; a case of which I once saw in a soldier in Portugal, who was stabbed into the stomach with a stiletto by a Por- tuguese. Blood in the stools will arise from a wound in the intestines, and ac- cording to the intestine wounded it will be more or less pure. If the blood is from a high part of an intestine, it will be mixed with faeces and of a dark colour; if low, as the colon, the blood will be less mixed and give the tinge of blood ; and the pain or sensation Mill be more or less acute according to the intestine M'ounded : more of the sickly pain the higher the intestine, and more of the acute the lower. There Mill be bloody urine from a wound in the kidneys or bladder; and if made by shot or ball, and a lodgement made, these bodies Mill sometimes become the cause of a stone. The sensation will be trifling. A M ound of the spleen -will produce no symptoms that I knou’ of, ex- cepting probably sickness, from its connection with the nerves belong- ing to the stomach, &c.OF TIIE TREATMENT OF GUN-SIIOT WOUNDS. 561 Extravasations of blood into the cavity of the abdomen will take place more or less in all penetrating wounds, and more especially if some vis- cus is wounded, as they are all extremely vascular; and this will prove dangerous or not, according to the quantity. These are the immediate and general symptoms upon such parts being wounded; but other symptoms may arise, in consequence of some of those viscera being wounded, which require particular attention. There may be wounds of the liver and spleen which produce no symptoms but what are immediate, and may soon take on the healing disposition ; but wounds in those viscera which contain extraneous matter, such as the stomach, intestines, kidneys, ureters, and bladder may produce second- ary symptoms of a distinctive kind. If the injury is done by a ball to any of those viscera, the effect may be of two kinds : one where it makes a wound, as stated above, the other where it only produces death in a part of any of them ; these will produce very different effects. The first will most probably be always dangerous : the second will hardly ever be so. 1 he first is where the ball has wounded some one of the above- mentioned viscera in such a manner as not to produce the symptoms already described, but one common to them all, viz. their contents or extraneous matter immediately escaping into the cavity of the abdomen. Such cases will seldom or ever do well, as their effect will hinder the above-mentioned adhesions taking place ; the consequence of which will be that universal inflammation on the peritoneum will take place, at- tended with great pain, tension, and death. But all this will be in pro- portion to the quahtity of wound in the part, and quantity of contents capable of escaping into the cavity of the abdomen ; for if the wound is small, and the bowels not full, then adhesions may take place all round the wound, which will confine the contained matter, and make it go on in its right channel. These adhesions may take place very early, as the following case show's. 1 he case of an officer who died of a wound which Jjie received in a duel. On Thursday morning, the 4th of September, 1783, about seven o’clock, an officer fought a duel in the Ring in Hyde-park, in which he exchanged three shots with his antagonist, whose last shot struck him on the right side, just below' the last rib, and appeared under the skin on the opposite side, exactly in the corresponding place, and was imme- diately cut out by Mr. Grant. About three hours after receiving this wound, I saw him with Mr. Grant. He was pretty quiet, not in much pain, rather low', pulse not quick nor full, and a sleepy languidness in the eye, which made me sus- pect something more than a common wound. He then had neither had a stool nor made w'ater, and therefore it could not be said what viscera VOL. III. 2 o562 OF THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. might be wounded. His Helly had been fomented, a clyster of warm water was ordered, and a draught with confec. card, as a cordial, with twenty drops of laudanum, to procure sleep, as he wished to have some. We saw him again at three o’clock: the draught had come up. Had no stool from the clyster, nor any sleep ; had made water, and no blood being found in it, we conjectured that the kidneys, &c. were not hurt. He was now rather lower, pulse smaller, more restless, a good deal of tension in the belly, which made him uneasy, and made him wish to have a stool. It was at first imagined that this tension might be owing to extravasated blood; but on patting the belly, especially along the course of the transverse arch of the colon, it plainly gave the sound and vibration of air; therefore we wished to procure a motion, to see if we could not by that means have some of that air expelled. We wished also to repeat the cordial and the opium, but the stomach was become now too irritable to retain anything, and was at times vomiting, inde- pendently of anything he took : a clyster was given, but nothing re- turned or came away. We saw him again at nine o’clock in the evening. His pulse was now low and more frequent, coldness at times, vomiting very frequent, which appeared to be chiefly bile, with small bits of some- thing that was of some consistence ; the belly very tense, which made him extremely uneasy; no stool. From nothing passing downwards, and the colon continuing to fill, we began to suspect that it was beco- ming paralytic, probably from the ball having divided some of its nerves. Fumes of tobacco by clyster were proposed, but we were loath to use it too hastily, as it would tend to increase the disease, if it did not re- lieve ; however, we were prepared for it. Mr. Grant stayed with him the whole night; all the above symptoms continued increasing, and about seven o’clock in the morning he died, viz. about twenty-four hours after receiving the wound. He was opened next day at ten o’clock, twenty-seven hours after death, when we found the body considerably putrid, although the weather was cold for the season, the hlood having transuded all over the face, neck, shoulders and breast, with a bloody fluid coming out of his mouth, with an offensive smell: below this the body was not so far gone. On opening the abdomen a good deal of putrid air rushed out; then we observed a good deal of fluid blood, principally on each side of the abdomen, with some coagulum upon the intestines; when sponged up it might be about a quart. The small intestines were slightly inflamed in many places, and there adhered. We immediately searched for the passage of the ball. On searching for the course of the ball we found that it had passed directly in, pierced the peritoneum, entered again the peritoneum whereOF THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 5C)3 2 o 2 it attaches the colon to the loins, passed behind the ascending colon, and just appeared at the right side of the root of the mesentery where the colon is attached; passed behind the root of the mesentery, and en- tered the lower turn of the duodenum as it crosses the spine ; then passed out of that gut on the left of the mesentery, and in its course to the left side it went through the jejunum, about a foot from its beginning; then through between two folds of the lower part of the jejunum, taking a piece out of each; then passed before the descending part of the colon, and pierced the peritoneum of the left side, as also some of the muscles, but not the skin, and was immediately cut put exactly in the same place on the left where it entered at the right; so it must have passed perfectly in a horizontal direction. There was no appearance of extravasation of any of the contents of the intestines loose in the cavity of the abdomen. The intestines in many places were adhering to one another, especially near to the wounds, which adhesions were recent, and of course very slight; yet they showed a ready disposition for union to prevent the secondary symptoms, or what may be called the consequent, which would also have proved fatal. There was little or no fluid in the small intestines, but there was a good deal of substance in consistence like faeces, in broken pieces about the size of a nut, through the whole track of the intestine, even in the stomach, which he vomited up ; but in the upper end of the jejunum, as also in the duodenum, there was some fluid mixed with the other; but that fluid seemed to be rather bile. If this solid part was excrement, then the valve of the colon must not have done its duty. Was all the thin part absorbed to hinder extravasation into the belly ? or was it all brought back into the stomach to be vomited up ? There was a good deal of air in the ascending, but more especially in the transverse turn of the colon. This case admits of several observations and queries. First, the lowness and gradual sinking, with the vomiting without blood, bespoke wounded intestines, and those pretty high up. It shows how ready Nature is to secure all unnatural passages, according to the necessity. Query, what could be the cause of his having no stool, even from the clyster ? Were the intestines inclinable to be quiet under such circum- * stances ? Would he not have lived if the immediate mischief had not been too much ? I think that if the immediate cause of death had not been so violent. Nature would have secured the parts from the second- ary, viz. the extravasation of the faeces. What is the best practice where it is supposed an intestine may be wounded ? I should suppose the very best practice would be to be quiet564 OF TIIE TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. arid do nothing, except bleeding, which in cases of wounded intestines is seldom necessaiy. As he was extremely thirsty, and could not retain anything in his stomach, which, if he could, would probably have been productive of mischief, by giving a greater chance of extravasation ; would not the tepid bath have been of service, to have allowed of fluids to enter the constitution ? It is very possible that a wound of the gall-bladder, but more readily ot the ductus communis, and also of the pancreatic duct, will produce the same effects, although not so quickly ; and it may be observed, that <i w ound in them could not be benefited by any adhesions that could take place, because the secreted fluids could never, most probably, get into the right channel again, and would therefore be the cause of keep- ing the external wound open to discharge the contents, as we find to be the case in the disease called fistula lachrymalis, as also when the duct of the parotid gland is divided. Wounds of parts that have been only deadened will be very similar to the above-stated penetrating wounds, but they will differ from them in effects, arising from a slough separating from a containing viscus; for whenever the slough comes away the extraneous or contained matter of that viscus will escape by the wound, such as the contents of the stomach, intestines, ureters, bladder, etc., the two last of which will be similar; or the slough may escape by either of these outlets ; whereas in the former kind of wounds any of the contents that could possibly escape would immediately pass into the cavity of the abdomen. The periods of these symptoms appearing after the accident will be according to the time of separation, which may be in eight, ten, twelve, or fourteen days. These new symptoms, although in general very disagreeable, will not be dangerous *, for all the danger is over before they can appear; but that the orifice should afterwards continue, and become either an arti- ficial anus or urethra, is a thing to be avoided; though they commonly close up, and the contents are directed the right way : in such cases no- thing is to be done but dressing the wound superficially, and when the contents of the wounded viscus become less, we may hope for a cure. The following case explains the foregoing remarks : A young gentleman was shot through the body. The musket was loaded with three balls, but there were only two orifices where they en- tered, and also only two where they came out, one of the balls having followed one of the others; that there were three that went through him * IIow far the contents of tiie stomach escaping through a wound might not be at- tended with bad consequences I cannot pretend to say.OF THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 565 was evident, for they afterwards made three holes in the wainscot be- hind him, but two very near one another1 11. The balls entered upon the left side of the navel, one a little further out than the other, and they came out behind, pretty near the spinal processes, about the superior vertebrae of the loins. From the closeness of the gun to the man when fired, which of course made its contents pass with great velocity, as also from the direction of the innermost ball, which we supposed to be the double one, we were pretty certain that it had penetrated the cavity of the abdomen, but could not be so certain of the course of the other. I he first water he made after the accident was bloody, from which we knew the kidney was wounded ; but that symptom soon left him. He had no blood in his stools, from which we concluded that none of the intestines were wounded; and no symptoms of extravasation of the con- tents of any viscus taking place, such as the symptoms of inflammation of the peritoneum, we were still more confirmed in our opinion. The symptomatic fever did not run higher than could have been ex- pected, nor was there more pain in the track of the ball than might be imagined. These cousequent symptoms of the immediate injury abated as soon as could be expected, and in less than a fortnight I pronounced him out of danger from the wound; for no immediate secondary symptoms having taken place, I concluded that whatever cavities the balls had entered, there the surrounding parts had adhered, so that the passage of the ball was by this means become a complete canal; and therefore, that neither any extraneous bodies that had been carried in with the balls, and had not been carried through, nor any slough that might separate from the sides of the canal, nor the matter formed in it, could now get into the cavity of the abdomen, but must be conducted to the external surface of the body, either through the wounds, or from an abscess forming for itself, which would work its own exit somewhere. But this conclusion was supposed to be too hasty, and soon after a new symptom arose, which alarmed those who did not see the propriety of my reasoning; which was some faeces coming through the wound : this new symptom did not alter my opinion respecting the whole ope- rations of Nature to secure the cavity of the abdomen, but it confirmed it (if a further confirmation had been necessary), and therefore I con- ceived it could not affect life ; but as I saw the possibility of this wound becoming an artificial anus, I was sorry for it. It was not difficult to 1 [Balls impinging on a sharp edge of bone have in two, and to take different courses in the body.] sometimes been known to be cut566 OF THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. account for the cause of this new symptom; it was plain that an intes- tine (the descending part of the colon most probably,) had only received a bruise from the ball, but sufficient to kill it at this part, and till the separation of the slough had taken place, both the intestine and canal were still complete, and therefore did not communicate with each other; but when the slough was thrown off, the two were laid into one at this part, therefore the contents of the intestine got into the wound, and the matter from the wound might have got into the intestine. However, this symptom gradually decreased, by (we may suppose) the gradual contraction of this opening, and an entire stop to the course of the feces took place, and the wounds healed very kindly up. But the inflammation, the sympathetic fever, the reducing treatment, and the spare regimen all tended to weaken him very much. §.4. Of penetrating Wounds in the Chest. Little notice lias been taken of wounds in the chest and lungs ; indeed it would appear at first that little or nothing could be done ; yet in many cases a great deal may be done for the good of the patient. It is possible a wound in the chest may be of the first kind, viz. only penetrating, yet from circumstances may prove fatal, as will be explained in the second or complicated, viz. a wound of the lungs. It is pretty well known that wounds of the lungs (abstracted from other mischief,) are not mortal. I have seen several cases where the patient has got well after being shot quite through the body and lungs, while from a very small wound made by a sword or bayonet into the lungs the patients have died, from which I should readily suppose that a wound in the lungs from a ball would in general do better than a wound in the same part with a pointed instrument; and this difference in effects would appear in many cases to arise from the difference in the quantity of blood extravasated, because the bleeding from a ball is very inconsiderable in comparison to that from a cut, and there is therefore a less chance of extravasated blood, either into the cavity of the thorax or into the cells of the lungs: another circumstance that favours gun- shot wounds in these parts is, that they seldom heal up externally by the first intention, on account of the slough, especially at the wound made by the entrance of the ball, so that the external wound remains open for a considerable time, by which means any extravasated matter may escape; but even this has often its disadvantages, for by keeping open the external wound, which leads into the cavity, we give a chance to produce the suppurative inflammation through the whole surface ofOF TIIE TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 567 that cavity, which most probably would prove fatal, and which would be equally so if no viscus was wounded; but it would appear that the cavity of the thorax does not so readily fall into this inflammation from a gun-shot wound as we should at first imagine; nor can we suppose that the adhesive inflammation readily takes place between the lungs and pleura round the orifice, as we described in the wounds of the ab- domen, because these parts are not under the same circumstances that other contained and containing parts are ; for in every other case the contained and containing have the same degree of flexibility or propor- tion in size. The brain and the skull have not the same flexibility, but they bear the same proportion in size. The lungs immediately collapse when either wounded themselves or when a wound is made into the chest, and, from this circumstance, are not allowed to heal by the first intention, but become by much too small for the cavity of the thorax, which space must be filled either with air or blood, or both, so that ad- hesion cannot readily take place : but it very often happens that the lungs have previously adhered, which will frequently be an advantage. In the cases of stabs, especially if with a sharp instrument, the ves- sels wall bleed freely, but the external wound will collapse, and cut off all external communication. If the lungs are wounded in the same manner, we must expect a considerable bleeding from them, and this bleeding will be into the general cavity of the thorax (if the lungs at this part have not previously adhered there), and likewise into the cells of the lungs or bronchiae, which will be known by producing a cough, and in consequence of it a bleeding at the mouth; for the blood that is extravasated into the air-cells of the lungs will be coughed up by the trachea, and by that means will become a certain symptom of the lungs being wounded; but that which gets into the cavity of the thorax can- not escape, and therefore must remain till the absorbents take it up; which they will do if it is only in small quantity; but if in large quan- tity this extravasated blood will produce symptoms of another kind. The symptoms of these accidents are : first, a great lowness, which proceeds from the nature of the parts wrounded, and perhaps a fainting lrom the quantity of blood lost to the circulation ; but this will be in proportion to the quantity and quickness with which it was lost. A load in the breast will be felt, but more from a sensation of this kind than from any real weight; and a considerable difficulty in breathing. This difficulty in breathing will arise from the pain the patient will have in expanding the lungs in inspiration, and will also proceed from the muscles of respiration of that side being wounded, and this will continue for some time from the succeeding inflam- mation : it will hinder the expansion of the thorax on that side, and<>l 111,1 1 KkAlMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 5f>S ot course m some degree of the other side, as we have not the power Of raising one side without raising the other*; and if wounded by l cut- mg instrument the lungs of that side not being able to expand fully, by the cavity of the thorax being in part filled with blood will also able" to ,.Sy ,nipt0m.S °f dlfficuIty of bathing, The patient will not be able o he down but must sit upright, that the position may allow of descent of the diaphragm, to give room in the chest; all which symptoms were strongly marked in the following case A person received a stab behind the left breast with a small sword • the wound in the skin was very small. He was almost immediately seized with a considerable discharge of blood from the lungs to near a quart, by the mouth, which showed that the lungs were consider- ably wounded, for from the situation of the external wound we were sure that the stomach could not be injured. His breathing soon became difficult and painful, and his pulse quick ; he was bled ; these symptoms increased so fast that every one thought him dying. He could only lie on his back; for if he lay on the sound side, he could not breathe in the least, and the pain would not let him lie on the unsound side; the easiest position was an erect posture, which obliged him to sit in a chair for several days ; when he coughed he was in great pain; he very seldom spat with the cough, and never discharged any blood after the second day, by which we supposed that the bleeding was stopped in the lun-s While the parts were in a state of inflammation he was in great pa'in. his breathing excessively quick, and his pulse hard and extremely quick,’ but as the inflammation went off, he drew his breath in longer strokes! his pain became less, and his pulse not so quick nor so hard ; but this last circumstance varied as he moved his body, coughed, or put him- self into a passion, which he often did. I suspected from both the wound and its effects that there was a good deal of extravasated blood in the cavity of the thorax ; for I considered that the blood which got out of the vessels of the lungs into the wound in the lungs would find a readier passage into the cavity of the thorax than into the cells of the lungs; and indeed every attempt to dilate the thorax would rather act as a sucker upon the mouth of the wound in the lungs, as the pressure of the external air was taken off by that means; 1 proposed the operation for the empyema, because the extra- vasated blood must compress the lungs of that side, and hinder their expansion, and likewise irritate, and at last might produce inflamma- tion. He continued for some days with little variation, but upon the I have often thought it a great pity that we do not accustom ourselves to move one side of our thorax independently of the other, as we from habit move one eyelid independently of the other.OK THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SIIOT WOUNDS. 569 whole seemed getting better; but the day before he died, he became worse in his breathing, which we imputed to his stirring too much, and was rather better on the day that he did die : just before death he was taken with a sort of suffocation, and in half an hour he died. 'I hrough his whole illness he had a moist skin, and sometimes sweated profusely ; at last his legs swelled. At first he only took a spermaceti mixture with a little opium, which gave him relief; I wanted to increase the opium, but it was objected to, for fear it should bind the chest too much, as it often does in asthmas, therefore it was given with the squills. On the day that he died, we ordered him the bark with a sudorific. As this was very different from a common asthma, and the difficulty of breathing arose entirely from the inflammation of the intercostal muscles and lungs, and likewise from having but one lung, I thought it advisable to give opium in this case, as it would take off the irritation ot the inflamed parts, and therefore allow a greater stretch or expansion; especially as we found whenever it was given that it gave relief and produced these effects. One might at first wonder why he should breathe with such difficulty, as he had one side whole or sound; for I have seen people breathe pretty freely who have had but one side to expand ; but when we consider the case, we can easily account for this. After death we opened him. On raising the sternum I cut into the cavity of the thorax, and a great deal of blood gushed out at the incision ; we sponged out of the left side of the thorax above three quarts of fluid blood; the coagulum appeared to have been attracted to the sides of the cavity everywhere, as if it had been furred over with the coagu- lating lymph, which was nowhere floating in the fluid; but most pro- bably the extravasated blood had never coagulated, and this thick huffy crust was an exudation of coagulating lymph from the lungs and pleura, which covers the ribs as in all inflammations ; if so, this is another in- stance, beside that of the inflammation of veins, in which the coagula- ting lymph coagulates immediately upon being thrown upon the surface; for if it had not, it then must have mixed with the blood in the chest, and only been found floating there. The lung was collapsed into a very small substance, and was therefore firmer than common; we observed the wound in it, which corresponded to the wound in the pleura; I in- troduced a probe into the wound in the lung, which passed near four inches, but was not certain whether it did not make some way for itself; however, I traced the wound by opening the lung, and could easily di- stinguish the wounded part by the coagulated blood that lay in it. I found flic heart and inside of the pericardium inflamed, and their surfaces fur-570 OF THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. red over with coaguluting lymph, similar to that on the lung. The lung of the right side had also become a little inflamed on its anterior edges. Wounds in the lungs generally become a cause of a quick pulse ; this likewise may arise in some degree from the lungs being so immediately concerned in the circulation, that anything that gives a check to the blood s free motion through them may affect the heart. Cut the pulse becomes hard, which arises from the nature of the inflammation that attends, and also from the wound being in a vital part. In the cases arising from balls, nothing in general is to be done but to keep quiet, and dress the wounds superficially; for any extravasated blood that might have got into the cavity of the thorax will generally make its escape by the external wound, as also any matter from suppu- ration. But in the cases of wounds made by cutting instruments, and where there is reason to suspect a considerable quantity of blood in the cavity of the thorax, then we may ask what should be done; and the natural answer is, that the operation for the empyema should be per- formed. This operation will relieve the patient and bring the disease to the [state of a] simple 'wound, and somewhat nearer to the gun-shot wound ; it should be performed as soon as possible, before the blood can have time to coagulate ; for the coagulum of the blood may be with dif- ficulty extracted. The enlargement of the wound already made will often answer; but if that is in such a situation as to forbid dilatation, then the common directions for the empyema are to be followed here. When all symptoms appear, and we have great reason to suppose a considerable extravasation of blood into the cavity of the chest, I think that we should not hesitate in performing the operation for the em- pyema. §.5. Of Concussions and Fractures of the Skull. These injuries, in consequence of a musket-ball, differ in nothing from the same accidents arising from any other cause, excepting the lodgement of the ball, which I imagine will require no peculiar mode of treatment. §. (i. Of fFounds compounded with Fractured Hones, or con- taining Extraneous Bodies. The compound gun-shot wounds, where bones are broken, or where there are extraneous bodies that continue the irritation, similar to com- pound fractures, seldom if ever heal at once, or by regular degrees, asOF THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SIIOT WOUNDS. 571 wounds of the former kind, but generally heal very quick at first, upon the going off of the inflammation, similar to the healing of simple gun- shot wounds; but when healed so far as to be affected by the extraneous bodies, then they become slow in their progress, till at last they come to a stand, or become fistulous; in which state they continue till the irritating cause is removed : and this takes place even if the dilatation should have been made at first as large as could be thought necessary; so that the opening at first, in such cases, can only let out those extra- neous bodies or detached bones that are perfectly loose, or become loose while the wound continues large : however, even this can only take place in superficial wounds; but in those that are deep, or where there is an exfoliation to take place, the dilated part always heals up long before they are fit to make their exit; but before this happens the parts often acquire an indolent diseased state, and even when all extraneous bodies are extracted the parts do not readily heal. When a wound comes to this stage, surgeons generally put in sponge or other tents into the opening, or apply some corroding medicine to keep it open, and also with a view to make it wider; but this practice is unnecessary, as a wound in such a state seldom heals entirely over, nor do tents add much to the width of the wound, and always confine the matter [for the time] between the two dressings. Where an exfoliation is expected, it is generally better to expose as much of the bone as possible : it keeps up a kind of inflammation, which I imagine gives a disposition for this process. This can only be done where the bone is pretty superficial; but in cases where the separation has already taken place, and it is dow to make its way to the skin, like any other extraneous substance, then, instead of the practice of sponge tents to keep the orifice in the skin open, it would be often better in such cases to let the whole heal over; because the extraneous body would form an abscess round itself, which would enlarge the cavity, and produce the ulcerative inflammation quicker towards the surface; and when that was opened, the extraneous body could be with more ease extracted, or would come out of itself: but this method of healing the mouths of fistulous sores is not always practicable. If this last practice has no inconveniences attending it, it has this advantage, that the patient has not the disagreeable trouble of having a sore to dress every day till the extraneous body comes awav, which I think is no small consideration. This practice, however, is not to be followed in every case : for instance, if the wound should communicate with a joint, as is common to most sores in the foot and hand where the bones are diseased, it would be in such cases very imprudent to allow the wound to heal, as the confined matter would get more rcadilv■r)72 OF THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. into the different joints, and increase the disease: there may be other causes to forbid this as a general practice. If wounds are to be kept open at their mouths, whose bottoms have not a disposition to heal, they should be kept open to that bottom; be- cause, whenever they do heal at their mouths, it is most commonly owing to their sides underneath first uniting; for the skin will seldom unite when all beyond it is open. In wounds that become fistulous, where there is no extraneous body, there is always a diseased bottom, which is to be looked upon as having the same eflect as an extraneous substance. To alter this diseased dis- position they should be opened freely, as large openings produce quick inflammation, quick suppuration, and quick granulations, which are ge- nerally sound when they arise from such a cause : on the other hand, letting such wounds heal at their mouths has often a salutary effect, as it becomes a means of destroying this diseased part by the formation of an abscess there, and in general there can be no better way of coming at a part or extraneous body than by the formation of an abscess there. It is a natural way of opening to relieve diseased parts; but we often find in practice that this method is not sufficient, either for the extrac- tion of extraneous bodies, or to expose the diseased bottom, excepting these abscesses are opened very largely by art, so as to expose the whole of the diseased parts or extraneous body. §• 7* Of the Time proper fur removing Incurable Parts. Many gun-shot wounds are at the very first evidently incurable, whether in a part that cannot be removed, or in one that will admit of being removed. When such wounds are in parts that will not admit of a removal of the parts injured, then nothing can be done by surgery ; but when in a part that can be removed, then a removal of the injured part is to be put in practice ; but even this is to be under certain restrictions : perhaps it should not be done immediately upon the receiving of the injury, excepting where a considerable blood-vessel is wounded, so as to endanger the life of the person, and that it absolutely cannot be tiiken up, or it is suspected that the inflammation in consequence of the accident will kill, by which means you have only the inflammation in consequence of the amputation; but this is a bad resource, especially if it is a lower extremity that is to be amputated, and which is perhaps the only part that can be removed of which the inflammation will kill. How far the same practice is to be followed in cases which we may suppose will not kill, but that the part is so hurt as to all appearanceOF THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SIIOT WOUNDS. o/3 r* Py r> not to be in the power of surgery to save, I will not now determine. I his is a very different case from the former, and its consequences de- pend more upon contingencies, so that the part should be removed only when the state of the patient in other respects will admit of it; hut this is seldom the case, for few people in full health are in that s’tate, and still less so those who are usually the subjects of gun-shot wounds • the situation they are in at the time, from the hurry of mind, makes it here in general to be the very worst practice ; it will in general there- fore, he much better to wait till the inflammation, and all the effects of both the irritation and inflammation, shall be gone off. If these things are not sufficiently attended to, and the first inflam- mation, as in the first-stated case, (for instance, that which is likely to prove mortal.) is allowed to go on, the patient will most probably lose Jus life ; or if the first inflammation is such as is likely to go off, accord- ing to the last-stated case, then we should allow it to go off before we operate and not run the risk of producing death by an operation; for I have already observed, few can support the consequences of the loss of a lower extremity when in full health and vigour. We know that a violent inflammation will in a few hours alter the healthy disposition and give a turn to the constitution, especially if a considerable quantity of blood has been lost, which most probably will be the case where both accident and operation immediately succeed one another. The patient under such circumstances becomes low, simply by the animal life losinc its powers, and hardly ever recovers afterwards. After considering the curative treatment of gun-shot wounds and other accidents common to the soldier as also the sailor, let us further consider the treatment of those patients whose wounds at the very first removed° ^ inCUrable When they are in I)arts that will admit of being iects of°Peraiti0a itSelf, ^ thC Same aS in °ther Cases> the only sub- jects of peculiar consideration here are the situation of the patient and the proper time for performing the operation after the injury I have already given some directions with regard to the proper time of operating in treating upon the dilatation of gun-shot woinds which ar m some degree applicable here ; but we shall consider this now more “ “ “"■* • •“ •—-» A, these injuries in the soldier are generally received at a distance from all care except,ng what may he called chirergical, it is proper we should consider how far the one should be practised without the other.574 OF THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. In general, surgeons have not endeavoured to delay it till the patient has been housed, and put in the way of a cure ; and therefore it has been a common practice to amputate on the field of battle. Nothing can be more improper than this practice, for the following reasons; in such a situation it is almost impossible for a surgeon, in many instances, to make himself sufficiently master of the case, so as to perform so capi- tal an operation with propriety; and it admits of dispute, whether at any time and in any place amputation should be performed before the first inflammation is over. When a case is so violent as not to admit of a cure in any situation, it is a chance if the patient will be able to bear the consequent inflammation; therefore in such a case it might appear, at first sight, that the best practice would be to amputate at the very first; but if the patient is not able to support the inflammation arising from the accident, it is more than probable he would not be able to support the amputation and its consequences. On the other hand, if the case is such as will admit of being brought through the first in- flammation, although not curable, we should certainly allow of it; for we may be assured that the patient will be better able to bear the second. If the chances are so even where common circumstances in life favour the amputation, how must it be where they do not ? how must it be with a man whose mind is in the height of agitation, arising from fa- tigue, fear, distress, &c. ? These circumstances must add greatly to the consequent mischief, and cast the balance much in favour of for- bearance. If it should be said that, agreeable to my argument, the same circum- stances of agitation will render the accident itself more dangerous, I answer, that the amputation is a violence superadded to the injury, therefore heightens the danger; and when the injury alone proves fatal, it is by slower means. In the first case it is only inflammation; in the second it is inflammation, loss of substance, and most probably loss of more blood; as it is to be supposed that a good deal has been lost from the accident, not to mention the awkward manner in which it must be done. The only thing that can be said in favour of amputation on the field of battle is, that the patient may be moved with more ease without a limb than with a shattered one : however, experience is the best guide, and I believe it is universally allowed by those whom we are to esteem the best judges, those who have had opportunity of making comparative observations on men who have been wounded in the same battle, some where amputation had been performed immediately, and others where it had been left till all circumstances favoured the operation; it hasOF THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 575 been found, I say, that few did well who had their limbs cut off on the field of battle ; while a much greater proportion have done well, in simi- lar cases, who were allowed to go on till the first inflammation was over, and underwent amputation afterwards. There will be exceptions to the above observations, which must be in a great measure left to the discretion of the surgeon; but a few of these exceptions may be mentioned, so as to give a general idea of what is meant. First, it is of less consequence, whichsoever way it is treated, if the part to be amputated is an upper extremity; but it may be observed, that there will be little occasion in general to amputate an upper ex- tremity upon the field, because there will be less danger in moving such a patient than if the injury' had happened to the lower. Secondly, if the parts are very much tom, so that the limb only hangs by a small connection, then the circumstance of the loss of so much substance to the constitution cannot be an objection, as it takes place from the accident, and indeed everything else that can possibly attend an amputation : therefore, in many cases, it may be more convenient to remove the whole. In many cases it may be necessary to perform the operation to get at blood-vessels which may be bleeding too freely, for the searching after them may do more mischief than the operation. I have already observed that gun-shot wounds do not bleed so freely as those made by cutting instruments, and are therefore attended with less danger of that kind : however, it may often happen that a consider- able vessel shall be divided, and a considerable bleeding take place ; in such cases no time is to be lost; the vessel must be taken up to pre- vent a greater evil. This operation may in many cases be attended with considerable trouble, especially as it will, in general, be on the field of action. Here the sailor has the advantage of the soldier. It will also be immediately necessary on the field to replace many parts that would destroy the patient if their restoration was delayed, such as the bowels or lungs protruding out of their cavities, or to re- move large bodies, such as a piece of shell sticking in the flesh, which would give great pain, and do mischief by moving the whole together. Very little can be done to relieve the brain in such a situation8. * [It seems to be now universally admitted by the most esteemed army surgeons that amputation on the field, or very shortly after removal to some fixed hospital, is the most judicious practice, and that the danger is infinitely increased by extending the delay beyond twenty-four hours, with a view of obtaining a more favourable opportu- nity for its performance. The cases which, according to Dr. Ilennen, require this relief, arc, 1st, where an arm or leg is carried completely off by a round shot; 2nd, where576 OF THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. §. 8. Of the Treatment of the Constitution. Bleeding is recommended in gun-shot wounds, and in such a manner as if of more service in them than wounds in general; but I do not see this necessity more than in other wounds that have done the same mis- chief, and where the same inflammation and other consequences are ex- pected. Bleeding is certainly to be used here, as in all wounds where there is a strong and full habit, and where we expect considerable inflammation and symptomatic fever; but if it is such a gun-shot wound as not to produce considerable effects, either local or constitutional, I would not bleed, merely because it is a gun-shot wound: and from what I have seen, I think that inflammation, &c. does not run so high in these wounds as I should have at first expected. I believe this is the case with all contused wounds where death in the part is a consequence : a contused wound is somewhat similar to the effects of a caustic; for while the separation of the dead part is forming, the suppurative in- flammation is retarded, and therefore not so violent; but this can only be said of those wounds which are not complicated with any other in- jury except what is produced by the balls passing through soft parts ; for if a bone is broken, it will inflame like any other compound fracture. It is often of service, in the time of inflammation, to bleed in the part with leeches or by punctures with a lancet: this helps to empty the there are extensive injuries of the joints ; 3rd, where there are compound fractures close to the joints, especially if conjoined with lacerated vessels or nerves, or much commi- nution of the bone, particularly if the femur is the injured bone ; 4th, where there is extensive loss of substance, or disorganization of the soft parts, by round shot; 5th, where the bones have been fractured or dislocated without rupture of the skin, or great loss of parts, but with great injury or disorganization of the ligaments, &c., and injuries of the vessels, followed by extensive internal effusions of blood among the soft parts. From the returns of the British army in the Peninsula, Mr. Guthrie found that at Toulouse 38 eases out of 48 terminated favourably when amputation was immediately performed ; 41 of these operations were of the thigh and leg, and 7 of the arm. Of the unfavourable cases, 3 were amputations of the thigh, performed as high up as is practi- cable by the common operation. Of 52 secondary operations, 15 of the superior extre- mity and 37 of the thigh, as many as 3 of the former were lost, and 8 of the latter; and altogether of 842 amputations performed at the Hospital Stations between the 21st of June and 24tli of December, 1813, the comparative loss of secondary or delayed ope- rations, and of primary or immediate operations, was as follows: Secondary. Primary. Upper extremities 12 to- 1 Lower extremities 3 to 1 Guthrie on Gun-shot Wounds, 2nd edit., pp. 150, 220.]OF THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 577 vessels of the part, to lessen the inflammation sooner, and of course to promote suppuration; but I must own that bleeding must be used with great caution where inflammation and fever rub very high, for to reduce the patient equal to the action at the time (which, whether an increased action or an acquired one, is only temporary) will be reducing him often too much for the constitution to support life when this action ceases ; for the very worst thing that can happen is the patient’s being reduced too low. We often afterwards find more difficulty in keeping up the strength with cordials, bark, &c. than we find in lowering it; and we may avail ourselves of observing those who have lost considerable quan- tities of blood from the accident, which is always immediate ; for we find that a second bleeding, by some other accident, although very small in quantity, often destroys our patient very quickly : but this will in a great measure depend upon the seat of the injury ; for in cases of great violence done to some parts of our body, bleeding answers better than in others, because the symptoms of dissolution, and dissolution itself, come on sooner from mischief done to some parts than when it is done to others. A man will bear bleeding better after an amputation of the arm than the leg ; better after a compound fracture of the arm than the leg : he will bear bleeding better after an injury done to the head, chest, lungs, &c. than either to the arm or lejj. We find that injuries done to inactive parts, such as joints, do worse, and are more susceptible of irritation than those in fleshy parts of the same situation. It would appear upon the whole that the decay of animal life is sooner brought on when the inflammation is in a part whose circulation is not so strong, and where the nervous influence or the force of the circula- tion is far removed. Bark is greatly recommended in gun-shot wounds, and with good reason; but it is ordered indiscriminately to all patients that have re- ceived such wounds, whatever the symptoms or constitution of the pa- tient may be. That there is no better medicine for wounds in general, not only when the inflammation is gone off, but in the time of inflam- mation, if the patient is rather low, and indeed before it comes on, ex- perience daily shows. Bark is to be looked upon as a strengthener or regulator of the system, and an antispasmodic, both of which destroy irritation. The bark and gentle bleedings, when the pulse begins to rise, are the best treatment that I know of in inflammations that arise either from accidents or operations ; one lessens the volume of the blood and the increased animal powers at the time, which makes the circula- tion more free, so that the heart labours less, and simple circulation goes on more freely; the other gives to the blood that which makes it VOL, III. 2 P578 OF THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. less irritating, makes the blood-vessels do their proper offices, and gives to the nerves their proper sensations, which take off the fever. BIBLIOGRAPHY OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. Abernethy, J. Surg. Obs. on Tumours and Lumbar Abscesses. 8vo. J8I0. Allan, Rob., A Syst. of Pathological and Operative Surgery, 3 vol. 8vo. 1821-7. An- douille, in M6m. de l’Acad. de Chir., 12mo. tom. vi. Arnal, M6m. sur quelqties Particularities des Plaies par Arines a Feu. Univ. Hebd. de Mid., 8vo. 1831. tom. iii. Assalini, P., M. D. Manuale di Chirurgia. 12mo. 1812. Atkins, J. The Navy Surgeon. 8vo. 1742. Bagien. Examen des plusieurs parties de la Chirurgie. 8vo. 1756. Baldinger, E. G. Introd. in Notitiam Scriptorum Medicinte Militaris, cum Additamentis. 8vo. 1764. Ballingall, Sir G. Outlines of Military Surgery. 8vo. 1833. Bell, Charles. Syst of Operative Surgery, 2 vol. 8vo. 1807—9, and 2nd edit. 1814, in which is in- corporated a Treatise on Gun-shot Wounds. Bell, John. A Disc, on the Nature and Cure of Wounds, etc., 8vo. 1795. and 3rd edit. 1812. p. 169 et seq. Bilguer, I. U. Dissert, de Membrorum Amputatione, 1761. Blane, Sir Gilbert, M.D. Observ. on the Diseases incident to Seamen, 8vo. 1785. Boggie, Dr. On Hospi- tal Gangrene, in Med. and Chir. Tr. of Edin., vol. iii. Bordenave. In Mem. de 1 Acad, de Chir., 12mo, tom. vi. Botallus, Leonard, De Curandis Vulneribus Sclopettorum, 8vo. 1575. Boucher. Observ. sur les Plaies d’Armes A Feu, com- pliquees de fracture aux articulations'des Extrem. &c., in Mem. de 1’Acad. de Chir., 12mo. v. 279. vi. 109. Brown, John. A Compleat Discourse of Wounds, etc. 1678. Brunswich, Hieron. The noble Experience of the vertuous Handywarke of Surgerie, fol. 1525. Cannae. Observ. sur les Tlaies d’Armes a Feu, etc., in Mem. de l’Acad. de Chir. tom. vi. Carcanus, J. B. Do Vulneribus Capitis, 1583. Chevalier, Thos. On Gun- Shot Wounds, small 8vo. 1804. Clowes, IV. A Prooved Practice for all Young Chirurgians, concerning burning with Gun-Powder, and Wounds-tnade with Gun- Shot, Sword, etc., 4to. 1588. Cooper, Sam. Surgical Diet., 8vo. 1812. and last Edit. 1830. Also, First Lines, etc., 8vo. 1813. and last Edit. 1836. Duignau, M. G. Reflexions Importantos sur le Service des HOpitaux Militaires, 8vo. 1785. De Conte. In Prix de l’Acad. de Chir., 12mo. tom. viii. Desport. Trail6 des Plaies d’Armes 5 Feu, 12mo. 1749. Dewar, II. On a particular sort of Gun- shot Wound, 8vo. 1815. Diet, des Sc. Med. (Petit), Art. Depot. Diet, de M6d. (Roux). Diet, de M6d. et Chir. Prat. (Dupuytren), Art. Abces. Cyc. Pract. Med. (Froiidie). Encyc. Worterb. (Richter), Art. Abscess. Dnpuy, J. M. Sur les Abscfis ou Tumeurs puruleutes. 1804. Dupuytren, le Baron. Trait6 Theoretique et Pratique des Blessures par Armes de Guerre, etc., par MM. I’aillard et Marx. 2 tom. 8vo. 1834, et Leyons oralcs (ii. 417.) 4 tom. Svo. 1832-4. Eucycl. Method., Partie Chir., Art. Plaies d’Armes A Fee. Faure. In Prix de l’Acad. des Chir., 12mo. Fcrrhis, Alph. De Tormcntariorum sive Archibusorum Vulnerum Natura et Cur., 2da Imp., 8vo. 1577. Foudacq, C. F. Reflexions sur les Playes, &c. 12mo. 1753.OF THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 5J9 Gale, Tho. An Institution of a Chirurgian, conteynvnge the sure Grounds and Prin- aples of Chirurgerie. 8vo. 1563. Also an Enchiridion of Chirurgerie, &c. 8v0 1563. Gerard. In Mem. de l’Acad. de Chir. 12mo. tom. vi Geueher Van. Abhandiung von der Nothwendigkeit der Amputation. 1775 -Graefe, R.C. F. Normen fur die Ablosung Grdsserer Gleidmassen. -4to. 1812 Guthrie, J. C. On Gun-shot Wounds of the Extremities, 8cc. 8vo. 1815. and 3rd Edit. 1827. HeUterps.Laur. Chirurgie; in welcher Alles was zur Wund-Arlzney Gehdrt, Grundlich abgehandelt ist. (the 3rd chap, is devoted to Gun-shot Wounds). 4to. 1719. tr. Lat. 4to. 1,43.——He,men, John, M.D. Principles of Military Surgery, 3rd Edit. 1829. orne, Francu, M.D. Medical Facts and Experiments (including a chap, on Gun- shot Wounds), Svo. 1759. Hutchison, A. Copeland. Some Practical Observ. on Surgery, 8yo. 1816. and 2nd Edit. 1826—Some further Observ. &c. on Amputa- tion 8vo. 181,. Histoire de l’Etat et des Prog, de la Chir. Militaire en France, pendant les Guerres de la Revolution, par M. Briot. 8vo. 1817. P'aieS d’AnlleS * FCU- &e‘ SV°- 1833‘ Juur"“l ^ M&L Mi- litaire. Svo. 1,82 et ann. seq. Klohss, K. L. Diss. de Myclitide. 8vo. 1820. Urrcy, Lf Baron D. J. Relation Hist, et Chir. de l’Exped. de I’Armtie en Egypt, &c R , 7 u' de Chir’ MiIit‘ 4 '0m- SV0- ,812‘ tr by Wallerf 1815. Recue,1 des Mem. de Chir. Svo. 1821.-Clinique Chirurg., &c. 4 tom. rt ,,. 3S' ‘ ls29-32.—M6m. sur les Plaies Penetrantes de la Poitrine, in Me.n. de _Ca ' f' de M6d’ 1828‘ L 2■ Laurent, J. Essais sur la Supp. 8vo. 1803 Lcmlle, J It. F Nouvelle Duct. Chir. (tom. i. chap. viii. p. 436.) 4 tom. Svo. - Le Dran’ 11 F- T"»‘* ou Reflexions tirees de la Pratique sur les Plaies d Amies A Feu. 2de edit. 12mo. 1740. Lizors, I. in Edin. Med. and Sur-. urn. xv. 396. (1819.) on the Patliology of the Nerves in Inflamm. Lombard, ‘ ' Dlssert; ,3ur 1 importance des Evacuans dans la Cure des Plaies. 8vo. 1783. Clinique Chir. des Plaies, des Plaies Recentes et des Plaies d’Armes 0 Feu 3 gTie Llm7mi-~~UWe’ P" MD' A DisC0Uree °fthe whoIe Art of Chyrur- Macgrigor, Sir Jos. On the Diseases of the Army, in Med. Chir. Tr. vi. 455 Mae S “r?e Vulnerum Sclopetorum et Bombardarum Curatione Tractatus. 4to. l Med. Sketches of the Campaigns of 1812, 1813, IS 14, &c J r t7~vfar‘Tre’ ^ M4m- f'e rAcad- de Chir- 12mo- xi, Afcher J- rrai e des Plaies d Armes h Feu. Svo. 1800. MtUengen J. G V At D n ’ rmy Medical Officer’s Manual upon Active Service, &c. 8vo. 1819.——Morand .Wo Opuscules de Chirurgie. I to. 1768-72. Mursinna. Neue Med. Chir Beo- hachtungen. Zweiter Thiel, s 138. 1796. AWe, //. St.John. Chirurg. Instil, on Gun-shot Wounds, &c. Svo. 1804. Pao’tnb' Mpnime dC traiter de« P'aiei d’Arguebusades et Fleches. Svo. 1751. Et 806. Percy, Lc Damn P. F. Manuel du Chirurgien d’Armee, &c. Svo 1792 1 lazzonus, fr. De Vulneribus Sclopetorum, &c. 4to. 1618. Qucrcetanus, Jos. Soiopctarius, sive de curandis Vulneribus, &c. Svo 1578 2 p 25S0 OF THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. Ranby, J. The Method of treating Gun-shot Wounds, &c. 8vo. 1744. Ravaton. Chirurgie d’Arm6e, &c. 8vo. 1768.—ttecueil d’Observ. de Med. des Hosp. Militaires. 4 to. 1766-72. Richer and, Ant. Nosographie Chir. (tom. i.) 56me edit. 4 tom. 8vo. 1821.—Recueil de M6m. de M6d. Chir. et Pharm. Milit., Src. redig6 par MM. Biron et Fournier et continue par MM. Begin et Etienne. 32 tom. 8vo. 1816-32. Richter, A. G. Anfangsgriinde der Wundarzneykunst (bande i.) 7 Bde. 8vo. 4te Aufl. 1804-23. Rota, J. F. De Tormentariorum sive Archibusorum Vulne- rum Natura et Cur. 4to. 1555. Roux, P. J. Considerations sur les Blesses des Trois Jours. Svo. 1830. Schmucker^ J. L. Chirurgische Wahrnehmungen. 8vo. 1774-89. Vermischte Chir. Schriften. 3 vols. Svo. 1776-1782. Theden, J. C. A. Unterricht fur die Unterwundarzte bey Armeen. Svo. 1782. Thomassin, M. Diss. sur l’Extraction des Corps Strangers des Plaies. Svo. 1788. Thomson, John, M.D. Report of the State of the Wounded in Belgium after the Battle of Waterloo. 8vo. 1816. Trotter, Thomas, M.D. Medicina Nautica, &c. 3 vols. 8vo. 1797-1803. Vacher. Sur quelques Particularity concernant les Playes faites par les Armes ll Feu. in M£m. de l’Acad. de Chir., &c. 12mo. tom. xi. Vigo, John. The most excellent Works of Chirurgerye j tr. by B. Traherom. fol. 1543. Wedekind. Nachrichten iiber das Franzosische, Kriegspitalwesen, Erster Bde. 1797. Wiseman, Rich. Several Chirurgical Treatises (one of which is ex pro/esso on gun-shot wounds), fol. 1676. Woodall, John. The Surgion’s Mate, &c. 1617. also Viaticum or Pathway to the Surgeon's Chest. 1628.OBSERVATIONS ON THE INFLAMMATION, ETC. 581 OBSERVATIONS ON THE INFLAMMATION OF THE INTERNAL COATS OF VEINS. Read February 6, 1784. [From the Transactions of a Society for the Improvement of Medical and Chirurgical Knowledge, Vol. I. p. 18. I793.J *1 HE following observations will show that the inside of veins, as well as of all other cavities, is a seat of inflammation and abscess. I have found in all violent inflammations of the cellular membrane, whether spontaneous or in consequence of accident, as in compound fractures, or of surgical operation, as in the removal of an extremity, that the coats of the larger veins, passing through the inflamed part, become also con- siderably inflamed, and that their inner surfaces take on the adhesive, suppurative, and ulcerative inflammations ; for in such inflammations I have found in many places of the veins adhesion, in others matter, and in others ulceration. Under such circumstances the veins would have abscesses formed in them, if the matter did not find in many cases an easy passage to the heart along with the circulating blood, so as to pre- vent the accumulation of the pus ; but this ready passage of the matter into the common circulation does not always happen. It is in some cases prevented by the adhesive inflammation taking place in the vein between the place of suppuration and the heart, so that an abscess is formed, as will be further observed. Where the inflammation is most violent there we find the vein most inflamed, there also after suppuration we find the purest pus; and as we trace the vessels from this part, either farther from or nearer to the heart, we find the pus more and more mixed with blood, and having more of the coagulated parts of the blood in it. As these appearances are only to be seen in dead bodies, they cannot be described but from thence; but it is so common a case that I have hardly ever seen an instance of suppuration in any part furnished with large veins where these appearances were not evident after death. I have found them in the bodies of those who have died from amputations, compound fractures, and mortifications. I hese circumstances all considered lead us to account for a very fre- quent complaint, that is, an inflamed arm after bleeding : a complaint582 OBSERVATIONS ON THE INFLAMMATION OF which has by some beeu imputed to the wounding of a tendon, because the tendon of the biceps muscle lies under some of those veins in which we often bleed, and wdien the complaint occurs it is unjustly supposed to arise from wrant of skill in the operator; by others it has been sup- posed to arise from the wounding of a nerve ; and again it lias been laid to the charge of a bad constitution. But if wre consider more critically this consequence arising from bleed- ing, we shall find that it happens frequently after bleeding in veins where no tendon could possibly be wounded, and also where no particular nerve could be in the way. It seems likewise to happen as frequently in con- stitutions where there is no appearance of want of health, as in those dis- posed to disease. As a proof of this last, upon bleeding in another vein in the same person, perhaps with a view to assist in the cure of the in- flammation arising from the first bleeding, the wound has healed very readily. If we examine the proportion which the number of those inflamma- tions that happen after bleeding bears to those which arise from as slight a wound where no large vein has been injured, and even perhaps where the wound has not been made by so clean a cutting instrument, and the same pains not taken to close it up, we shall find that those from wounded veins are much the most frequent, and that such inflammations seldom or ever happen under the last-mentioned circumstances: therefore we must look for some other cause to explain this effect of bleeding. The manner in which those sore arms come on shows plainly that thev arise from the wound not healing by the first intention : for the external wound in most cases first festers or inflames, then suppurates and ulce- rates, so that the cavity of the vein becomes impervious. In some this suppuration is only superficial, the vein and parts below' having united. In others the skin shall appear to be united, but not close to the vein, so that a small abscess shall form between the skin and the vein ; it shall burst and discharge a thin watery fluid, and no further mischief happen ; but when this imperfection of union is continued on to the cavity of the vein, then the vein inflames both upwards and downwards, and that often for a considerable way, and the surrounding parts join in the in- flammation. We find all these variations in different cases: for the disease some- times goes no further than an inflammation in the vein near to the orifice, which is often resolved ; at other times the inflammation is carried fur- ther, but suppuration is prevented by the adhesive inflammation taking place in the vein at this part, so as to exclude the suppurative inflam- mation, and the veins in such cases may be plainly felt, after the sur-THE INTERNAL COATS OF VEINS. 583 rounding tumefaction has subsided, like hard cords. But this salutary effect is not always produced, and suppuration in the vein is the conse- quence ; but often so confined, that only a small abscess forms in the cavity of the vein near to the orifice. The confinement of the matter in this part of the vein arises from adhesions in the vein a little above and below the orifice. But in many cases the inflammation and suppuration are not confined to this part, from the adhesions not having taken place; for it frequently happens that an abscess is formed, occupying a consi- derable length of the vein both ways ; and we often have more than one abscess, nay at times there is a series of them, and generally in the di- rection of the vein, between the orifice and the heart; but not always in this course, for we find them sometimes between the wound and the extreme parts. I have seen from a wound in the foot the vena saphsena inflamed all up the leg and thigh, nearly as high as the groin ; and I have been obliged to open a string of abscesses almost through its whole course. In cases where I have had opportunities of inspecting veins after death in which the inflammation had been violent, upon examining the vein at some distance from this violence, I found the inflammation in the adhesive state : in some places the sides of the vein were adhering, and in others the inner surface of the veins was furred over with a coagulable lymph. Where different abscesses had formed I have always found that the spaces of the vein between them had united by the adhesive inflam- mation, and it is this union which circumscribes the abscesses. Upon examining the arm of a man who had died at St. George’s Ho- spital, I found the veins, both below and above the orifice, in many places united by the adhesive inflammation. I also found in many parts of the veins that suppuration had begun, as we find, on an inflamed surface, but had not yet arrived at ulceration ; and in several ether places ulce- ration had taken place, so as to have destroyed.that surface next the skin, and a circumscribed abscess was formed. The vein near to the axilla had taken on suppuration, beyond which adhesions had not formed, and this had given a free passage for the matter into the circulation, of which most probably the patient died. In those cases where larger abscesses have come on than those formed simply from the ulceration of tire wound made by the lancet, I have always found that the vein was afterwards obliterated, having united and healed up as any other cavity does, so that such patients could never be bled in the same vein again, which is a proof that the sides of the vein can unite by the adhesive inflammation. Inflammation of a vein is a common effect after bleeding horses, which is usually done in the neck. The operator on this animal does not always584 OBSERVATIONS ON THE INFLAMMATION OF take sufficient care to close up the external wound; for although the method usually employed would at first sight appear to be a good one, that is, by a pin passed through the wound from side to side, as in the hare-lip, and over-tied by a thread or hair, yet, if not executed with sufficient attention, I should be inclined to believe that it is the very worst, as it very readily promotes inflammation in the cavity of the vein, either of the adhesive or suppurative kind, according as the ligature does or does not communicate with the cavity. In some of these inflammations of horses I have seen the jugular vein inflamed through its whole length, and all the side of the head has been considerably swelled, and the inflammation carried along the vein quite into the chest. In these cases there is always an abscess formed at the wound, and often several along the vein, as in the human subject; and whenever the complaint is carried so far as this stage, the cavity becomes united at those places by granulations, and the vein is ever after imper- vious. Many horses die of this disease ; but what is the particular cir- cumstance which occasions their death I have not been able to deter- mine. It may either be that the inflammation extends itself to the heart, or that the matter secreted from the inside of the vein passes alon? that tube in considerable quantity to the heart, and mixes with the blood. I am inclined to believe that the exposure of cavities of the larger veins in cases of accidents, and also of operations, is often the cause of many of the very extensive inflammations which sometimes attend these cases, and indeed may be the reason why inflammations extend or spread at all beyond the sphere of continued sympathy®. In all cases where inflammation of veins runs high, or extends itself considerably, it is to be expected that the whole system will be affected. For the most part the same kind of affection takes place which arises from other inflammations, with this exception, that where no adhesions of the sides of the veins are formed, or where such adhesions are incom- plete, pus passing into the circulation may add to the general disorder, and even render it fatal. In all cases of inflammation where adhesions take place they arise from an extravasation of coagulable lymph ; but how such adhesions should take place on the internal surface of veins appears at first sight difficult to conceive, since it is most obvious that the coagulable lymph thrown out by the exhalants on the internal surface of the vein, mixing with the same fluid circulating with the other parts of the blood, would be swept * [The frequency of phlebitis, not only after accidents and operations but in puerpe- ral women, has fully confirmed the truth of this conjecture. Inflammation even of the veins of the bones, according to Cruveilhier, is a frequent consequence of operations on these par's.]585 THE INTERNAL COATS OF VEINS. away without producing any effect. But since such adhesions do in fact happen, the coagulable lymph must undergo some change connected with the disposition which produces its extravasation. Although the operation which is the most frequent cause of this com- plaint is to appearance trifling, yet as it is often of very serious conse- quence, both to the life of the patient and the character of the surgeon, it requires particular attention in the operator to prevent as much as possible an evil of such magnitude. With this view he will be particu- larly attentive to the mode of closing the wound and binding up the arm. This is to be done by bringing the two sides of the wound together, that they may unite by the first intention. To accomplish this, let the surgeon, with the thumb of that hand which holds the arm, push the skin towards the orifice, while he draws it on the other side to the same point with Ihe compress : thus the skin will be thrown into folds at the wound over which he is immediately to apply the compress. The com- press should be broad, to keep the skin better together; and thick, to make the compression more certain. Another advantage arising from this caution is the prevention of the vein bleeding a second time. I have known an inflammation attack the orifice, which appeared to have arisen from the first union having been broke through, and no second union formed; but this probably did not arise from the vein being opened a second time, but from the sides of the orifice not having been again brought together. I would recommend a compress of linen or lint, in preference to sticking plaster; for I imagine that the blood drying over, the orifice is a kind of bond of union more natural and effectual than any other application : and this conclusion is drawn from practice ; for I have seen more sore arms in consequence of bleeding where plasters have been afterwards applied, than from any other; and in cases of the compound fracture, when attempted to be cured as a simple fracture, if the wound will allow of being scabbed over, I have seen it always do well; whereas if it has been kept moist, or prevented from evaporating by pla- sters or other applications, it has always suppurated. When inflammation takes place beyond the orifice, so as to alarm the surgeon, he should immediately make a compress upon the vein at the inflamed part, to make the two sides adhere together; or if they do not adhere, yet simple contact will be sufficient to prevent suppuration in this part; or if inflammation has gone so far as to make the surgeon sus- pect that suppuration has taken place, then the compress must be put upon that part of the vein just above the suppuration. This I once practised, and, as I supposed, wdth success8. * [Few diseases possess more practical or theoretical interest than the subject of phle- bitis ; and yet, clear and satisfactory as Mr. Hunter’s observations on the subject are,586 OBSERVATIONS ON THE INFLAMMATION, ETC. they do not appear to have attracted much attention until comparatively a recent period. Irom 1/8-1, the date of Mr. Hunter's paper, to 1815, when Mr. Hodgson’s valuable treatise on the diseases of the arteries and veins appeared, only a very few cases are recorded tn the literature of this country. Bichat, in his Anatomic General,, does not appear to have been acquainted with the complaint, at least with that peculiar form of suppurative inflammation to which the veins are liable, while the French journals, with one single exception, are equally silent on the subject. The successive publica- tions which have since appeared, of Abernethy, Hodgson, Travers, Carmichael. Arnott, &c., have thrown much light on the pathology of phlebitis, while they have at the same time not only pointed out the frequent complication of phlebitis with other affec- tions, as, tor example, accidents and mrgical operations, but also tha» it is often the cause of death in other cases where it was not previously suspected, especially in puerperal women. Among the most remarkable circumstances brought to light in the course of these investigations, must be mentioned the resemblance which the constitutional sym- ptoms attending this form of inflammation, bear to those produced bv injection of putrid or infectious matters into the current of the blood, and also the frequent occurrence of secondary suppurations in various parts of the body and often in many parts of the same body. The cause of these peculiarities has not yet been satisfactorily determined, nor has it yet been decided what mode of treatment is most generally eligible. Experience has shown that little reliance ts to be placed on the application of compresses above the inflamed part, as advised by the author.]587 ON INTROSUSCEPTION. ON INTROSUSCEPTION. [Head August 18, 1789.] [from the Transactions of a Society for the Improvement of Medical and Chirurgical Knowledge, Vol. I. p. 103. 1793.] In'j rilOSUSCEPTION is a disease produced by the passing of one portion of an intestine into another, and it is commonly, I believe, from the upper passing into the lower part. If the mode of accounting for introsusception, which I am going to offer, be just, it will most frequently happen in the way I have stated, although there is no reason why it may not take place in a contrary direc- tion, in which case the chance of a cure will be increased by the natural actions of the intestinal canal tending to replace the intestine ; and proba- bly from this circumstance it may oftener occur than commonly appears. When the introsusception is downwards it may be called progressive, and when it happens upwards, retrograde. The manner in which it may take place is, by one portion of a loose intestine being contracted, and the part immediately below relaxed and dilated, under which cir- cumstances it might very readily happen, by the contracted portion slip- ping a little way into that which is dilated ; not from any action in either portion of intestine, but from some additional wreight in the gut above. Howr far the peristaltic motion, by pushing the contents on to the con- tracted parts, may force them into the relaxed, I will not determine, but should rather suppose that it would not. By this mode of accounting for an accidental introsusception, it may take place either upwards or downwards; but if a continuance or an in- crease of it arises from the action of the intestine, it must be when it is dowmwards, as wre actually find to be the case; yet this does not ex- plain those in which a considerable portion of intestine appears to have been carried into the gut below : to understand these wre must consider the different parts which form the introsusception. It is made up of three folds of intestine; the inner, which passes down, and being re- flected upwards, forms the second or inverted portion, which being re- flected down again, makes the third or containing part, that is, the out- ermost, which is always in the natural position. The outward fold is the only one which is active, the inverted portion being perfectly passive, and squeezed down by the outer, which inverts588 ON INTROSUSCEPTION. more of itself, so that the angle of inversion in this case is always at the angle of reflection of the outer into the middle portion or inverted one, while the innermost is drawn in. From this we can readily see how an introsusception, once begun, may have any length of gut drawn in. 1 lie external portion acting upon the other folds in the same way as upon any extraneous matter, will, by its peristaltic motion, urge them further; and, if any extraneous substance is detained in the cavity of the inner portion, that part will become a fixed point for the outer or con- taining intestine to act upon. Thus it will be squeezed on, till at last the mesentery', preventing more of the innermost part from being drawn in, will act as a kind of stay, yet without entirely hindering the inverted outer fold from going still further. For it being the middle fold that is acted upon by the outer, and this action continuing after the inner por- tion becomes fixed, the gut is thrown into folds upon itself; so that a foot in length of intestine shall form an introsusception of not more than three inches long. The different appearances which I have described as taking place in an introsusception are distinctly seen in Plate XXIV., fig. 4., in which the different folds of intestine are exposed. I have asserted that the outer portion of intestine was alone active in augmenting the disease when once begun, but if the inner one was ca- pable of equal action in its natural direction, the effect would be the same, that of endeavouring to invert itself, as in a prolapsus ani; the outer and inner portions, by their action, would tend to draw in more of the gut, while the intermediate part only would, by its action, have a contrary tendency. I he action of the abdominal muscles cannot assist iu either forming or continuing this disease, as it must compress equally' both above and below, although it is capable of producing the prolapsus ani. In cases where introsusception begins at the valve of the colon, and inverts that intestine, we find the ileum is not at all affected, which proves that the mesentery, byr acting as a stay, prevents its inversion. From the natural attachment of the mesentery to the intestines, one would, at the first view of the subject, conceive it impossible for any one portion of gut to get far within another, as the greater extent of mesen- tery that is carried in along with it would render its further entrance more and more difficult, and we should expect this difficulty to be greater in the large intestines than in the small, as being more closely confined to their situation : yet the largest introsusception of any known was in the colon, as related by Mr. Whately*. • Vide Philos. Trans., vol. lxxvi. pags 31)5.ON INTROSUSCEPTION. 589 The introsuseeption appeared to have begun at the insertion of the ileum into the colon, and to have carried in the caecum with its appen- dix. The ileum passed on into the colon, till the whole of the ascend- ing colon, th.e'transverse arch and descending colon, were carried into the sigmoid flexure and rectum. The valve of the colon being the lead- ing part, it at last got as low as the anus; and when the person went to stool he only emptied the ileum, for one half of the large intestines being filled up by the other, the ileum alone, which passed through the centre, discharged its contents. Since that time the following case has occurred, which is in many respects similar; the patient was attended by Dr. Ash, and the body in- spected after death by Mr. Home. A. B. aged nine months, a large healthy well-looking child, who, as far as appeared, had never been indisposed from his birth, was seized with a strong spasm, stretching himself out suddenly, without having had any symptoms of previous ailment. Either during the spasm, or immediately after it, he passed a very large loose stool, and after that discharged at intervals small quantities of mucous slime, covered over with little specks of recent fluid blood. Dr. Ash visited him four or five hours after this attack, and found him in all other respects perfectly well; the child sucked heartily, but Dr. Ash, on observing his pulse to be less quick than is usual in children so young, his heat to be rather below the common standard, and, added to these, the small mucous and bloody discharges, suspected that mortification had taken place in the bowels, without being able to guess at the cause, as the child had la- boured under no previous indisposition. In this uncertain situation va- rious means of relief were attempted by purgatives, fomentations, the warm bath, and different kind of clysters, but without any good effect. On his first examination of the abdomen he felt (or thought he felt) a deap-seated fulness or hardness under the left hypochondrium; blisters were applied to the part, and every possible means attempted, without obtaining any evacuation by stool, or any other apparent relief; his strength gradually sunk, and his pulse became gradually weaker, al- though he continued to take the breast eagerly till within a few hours of his death, which happened just sixty hours after the first spasmodic attack. The following were the appearances found in the dead body. Upon opening the abdomen the small intestines, considerably distended with fluid contents, occupied so much of the cavity as to prevent any of the other viscera from being seen, and the mesentery was so much confined that the convolutions of the small intestines could not be readily followed. This confinement was found to arise from an introsuseeption of the ileum590 ON INTROSUSCEPTION. and its mesentery, together with the caecum and ascending colon iuto the descending part of the sigmoid flexure of the colon, the mesentery of the ileum being drawn up so obliquely across the root of the mesen- tery, as to prevent the jejunum from having its usual freedom of attach- ment. The only part of the colon which could be seen was the sigmoid flexure, in which was distinctly to be felt a hard substance, consisting of the ileum and inverted colon. These parts being removed, for the purpose of a more accurate inspection of them, the sigmoid flexure of the colon was laid open, and was discovered to contain the caecum and colon in an inverted state. The internal surface of these, when exposed, were found to have put on a dark red appearance, approaching to black; the whole appear- ing like a solid substance, rounded at the end, hanging loose into the descending colon, and about four inches long. Upon dividing the in- verted colon, the ileum and appendix cseci were seen lying close to each other, and their two openings found on the rounded end of the inverted colon, leading directly into the sigmoid flexure ; the portion of the ileum "as a little twisted, but not in the least corrugated, it was rather stretched, ayl much pressed against the appendix caeci and its own mesentery by the surrounding colon, and a convolution of the appendix near the termination was so much pressed against the ileum as to make a mark upon it, and probably had compressed its sides so as to prevent anything from passing. Ihe portion of ileum was about four inches long. 1 he in% erted colon had drawn in the mcso-colon, and a portion of the omentum that was attached to the transverse arch. The portion of the colon near the valve, which formed the extremity of the inverted part, was much thickened in its substance by the effects of inflammation, be- ing four or five times its natural thickness; it was a good deal corru- gated, or folded upon itself, the folds at this part seemed to adhere to one another, and form one mass. The inflammation and thickening only extending two inches, the gut becoming gradually thinner till it was of its natural thickness and appearance ; so that what was only four inches in length of introsusception, contained a considerably greater length of intestine. The sigmoid flexure, which was the containing intestine, had the na- tural appearance, but was dilated or relaxed ; and the other contents of the abdomen were in a natural state, nor had the child any other appa- rent disease. A representation of the parts may be seen in PI. XXIYr. From the account I have given of introsusception, it does not seem probable that it should be of the retrograde kind, unless from an inver- sion of the peristaltic motion, which could only continue for a short time,ON INTROSUSCE PTION. 591 and the natural motion being restored, a cure would probably be per- formed. This disease happens most frequently in the first fifteen years of life, not occurring so commonly in older people, neither does it, I believe, ever take place in the colon itself, although we find that gut affected by it*. An iutrosusception can never be perfectly known till after death; but where there are violent affections of the bowels, attended with consti- pation, we have reason, from the cases which have been examined in the dead body, to suppose that this disease may be the cause of them : there are, however, so many other diseases which produce the same sym- ptoms, that nothing can be ascertained. But if an introsusception is sus- pected, it will be proper in the mode of treatment to suppose it to be of the progressive kind. In the treatment of this disease various methods have been proposed: bleeding, to lessen the inflammation that might be brought on, and quick- silver, to remove the cause, are the most obvious, and the means that are usually recommended. Quicksilver would have little effect, either in one way or other, if the iutrosusception was downward; for it is to be supposed that it would easily make its way through the innermost contained gut, and if it should be stopped in its passage, it would, by increasing its size, become a cause (as before observed) of assisting the disease. In cases of the retrograde kind, quicksilver, assisted by the peristaltic motion, might be expected to press the introsusception back; but even under such circumstances it might get between the containing and inverted gut into the angle of reflection, and by pushing it further on increase the disease it is intended to cure. From the account I have given of the manner in which it is produced, I should propose the following treatment in cases of progressive intro- susception. Everything that can increase the action of the intestine downwards is to be particularly avoided, as tending to increase the peristaltic motion of the outer containing gut, and thus to continue the disease. Medi- cine can never come in contact with the outer fold, and having passed the inner, can only act on the outer below, therefore cannot immedi- A prolapsus ani is, in some respects, similar to an introsusception, and may possibly begin in the same way, but is continued by the action of the abdominal muscles, never by the action of the gut itself. It differs from intiosusception as not being contained in a gut; for, instead of having an inclosing gut inverting itself by its own .action, there is an inclosed gut protruded by the action of the abdominal muscles and the passing of the faeces through it, and the point of inversion is at the extremity of the protrusion, and as it inverts it pushes out of the body.592 ON INTROSUSCEPTION. ately affect that portion of the outer which contains the introsusceptiou; but we must suppose that whatever affects or comes in contact with the larger portion of the canal, so as to throw it into action, will also affect by sympathy any part that may escape such application. I should there- fore advise giving vomits, with a view to invert the peristaltic motion of the containing gut, which will have a tendency to bring the intestines into their natural situation. If this practice should not succeed, it might be proper to consider it as a retrograde introsusception, and by administering purges endeavour to increase the peristaltic motion downwards. SUPPLEMENT TO THE PAPER UPON INTROSUSCEPTION. By Sir Everard Home, Bart. The following case of introsusception upwards has been communi- cated to me by the late Mr. Smith, surgeon at Bristol; in whose collec- tion of morbid preparations I saw the parts, which had been removed from the dead body, and preserved in spirits. That the introsusception was upwards is sufficiently ascertained from the preparation. The particulars of the case, as far as they came to the knowledge of Mr. Smith, who examined the body after death, were as follow: A cabin-boy, belonging to one of the ships lying in Bristol harbour, was corrected by his master for some misconduct, at which the boy was very much exasperated, and in the heat of his passion swallowed some arsenic, which had been laid in different parts of the ship to poison rats. He was attacked with violent pain in the stomach and intestines, attended with excessive vomiting, and expired before any medical assistance could be procured. Upon inspection of the body, the internal surface of the stomach was found inflamed to a very great degree, the inflammation extending a con- siderable way along the track of the small intestines, and in the ileum there was discovered an introsusception of above two inches long, formed by a portion of the lower part of the gut having been inverted, and pushed into that immediately above it. On slitting up the intestine, to examine the introsusception more ac- curately, a long round worm was found coiled round the projecting intro- suscepted part, and is preserved in that situation in the preparation. The circumstances under which the round worm was found determines the kind of introsusception, since I have observed that species of worm more commonly in the upper portion of the small intestines, in which situation having been disturbed by the effects of the arsenic, it had con-OS INTROSUSCEPTION. 593 •equently moved, to get at a greater distance from the poison. It is likewise probable, from the coming on of inflammation, that vomiting, an immediate effect of the poison, by which the peristaltic motion was inverted, and the introsusception produced, had been followed by a con- trary action, or disposition to purging, by which the worm being hurried along till it came to the introsusceptea part, was there stopped, and in the endeavour to extricate itself had twined round the projecting part, in which situation it died. If the introsusception had been downwards, the worm could not have been in that situation. It is probable that if the boy had outlived the immediate effects of the arsenic, and the peristaltic motion had perfectly recovered itself, the in- trosusception would have been by that means unfolded, vol. m. 2 a594 ON THE CURE OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. AN ACCOUNT OF MR. HUNTER’S METHOD OF PERFORM- ING THE OPERATION FOR THE CURE OF THE POPLI- TEAL ANEURISM8. By Sir Evbkard Home, Bart. [From the Transactions of a Society for the fnijirovement of Minlical ami Chirurgical Knowledge, Vol: I., p. 138. 1703.}- -* The popliteal aneurism being a disease which frequently occurs and generally proves fatal, unless some means are taken to prevent it, we cannot be surprised that it has attracted the attention and called forth the exertions of the ablest surgeons in this country to discover some method of cure. Experience has shown that all the modes hitherto practised are ex- ceedingly precarious, being rarely attended with success, and the death of the patient being commonly a consequence of a failure of the opera- tion : a circumstance which has led some surgeons of great eminence to prefer the amputation of the limb in all such cases. Mr. Hunter, who has repeatedly performed the operation for the aneu- rism, finding that it in general fails, and having likewise observed that the removal of a limb so high up, from a person in health, seldom suc- ceeds in preserving life, and when it does, leaves the patient disabled, was excited to consider this disease with more than ordinary attention. The result has been a mode of practice that appears to possess many advantages over those hitherto recommended, and to be an improvement in the practical part of surgery; at least it is from this idea being strongly impressed on my mind that I am induced to communicate it to this So- ciety, as Mr. Hunter is too much engaged to permit his taking that task upon himself. An aneurism is a preternatural dilatation of a portion of an artery, and in general it is a very small part of the arterial coats which is thus affected. The dilatation is commonly on one side only, and when once begun gradually enlarges, from the force of the heart propelling the blood against the dilated part. Thus in time a sac is formed, which being in some measure out of the direct course of the circulation, the blood, where it is at the greatest distance from the channel of the artery, coagulates * [Mr. Hunter’s claim to the merit of this discovery has been vindicated in the course of his Life. See Vol. I. p. 96.}ON THE CURE OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 595 and forms layers or strata upon the inside of this sac. As the enlarge- ment of the sac depends entirely on the force with which the blood is acted on by the heart, it does not, as at first, continue to swell out at right angles from the side of the artery, but is increased in a diagonal line between that and the course of the artery itself, from the force of. the blood being applied in that direction; so that the sac is protruded, along the outside of the artery, and by its pressure upon it obliterates, in many instances, the lower orifice, which communicates with the ar- tery, and produces a total stagnation of the blood in the sac. If the coats of an artery' are examined in the commencement of this disease, the first appearance is a loss of the natural lustre and transpa- rency of its internal membrane, that becoming opake, afterwards thicker, acquiring a leather-like appearance; and when the sac becomes larger the coats retain no longer a resemblance to those of an arterv, but have more that of a membranous bag, communicating laterally' with the ar- tery by a rounded orifice, of different sizes, the margin of which re- sembles the internal membrane of an artery', in a thickened state ; but beyond that gradually degenerates into a membranous substance. 1 he popliteal aneurism, which we are at present to consider, is the disease above mentioned, affecting the trunk of the popliteal artery, which runs down between the two hamstrings of the thigh. From the situ- ation of the tumour, on whatever side of the artery' the dilatation is produced, it will be distinctly felt in the hollow between the hamstrings, and will be readily ascertained by a pulsation to be felt in every- part of the tumour : it seems to be one of the most frequent situations of aneu- rism ; and though it may be difficult to ascertain whether it occurs so commonly as in the aorta itself, it is certainly found oftener in this ar- tery than m any other branch which the aorta sends off*. Tliis circum- • [The following table*, from Mr. Hodgson’s Treatise on the Diseases of Arteries and of !he body'. MlUb‘t,tile coraParative frequency of aneurisms in .the different arteries Of the ascending aorta, the arteria innominata. and the arch of the aorta. . Males. 16 Females. Total. Arch of the descending aorta... 7 0 1 1 1 8 subclavian and axillary arteries — inguinal arteries 2 5 12 14 ••• 2 5 femoral and popliteal arteries 1 12 r • - 56 7 63 • [This table does not include aneurisms arising from wounded arteries, or aneurisms >m anastomosis.] aneurisms 2 q 259(J ON THE CURE OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. stance, as far as I know, has not hitherto been accounted for, and what is rather curious, in many recent instances of this disease, the patients have been coachmen and postilions*. The popliteal aneurism has been in general supposed to arise from a weakness in the coats of the artery, independent of the presence of disease: if this were true, we might reasonably conclude that, except in the part preternaturally dilated, the vessel remained in a sound state, which would naturally suggest the mode of practice generally recommended, viz. opening the sac, tying up the artery above and below it, leaving the bag to suppurate, and afterwards heal up like any common sore. Mr. Hunter finding an alteration of structure in the coats of the artery previous to its dilatation, and that the artery immediately above the sac seldom unites when tied up in the operation for the aneurism, so that as soon as the ligature comes away, the secondary bleeding destroys the patient, was led to conclude that a previous disease took place in the coats of the artery, in consequence of which it admitted of dilatation capable of producing aneurism. But not satisfied with the experiments on frogs, given by Haller in support of the opinion that weakness alone was sufficient to produce the dilatation, he resolved to try the result in a quadruped, which, from the vessels being very similar in their struc- ture to those of the human subject, would be more likely to ascertain the truth or fallacy of Haller’s opinion. That the experiment might have as much as possible the chances most likely to produce aneu- * Morgagni and his friends found aneurisms of the norta more frequently in guides, post-boys, and other persons who sit almost continually on horseback, which is attri- buted to the concussion and agitation.—Vide Letter xvii. Art. IS. When we consider the popliteal artery as affected by the difjerent positions of the leg and thigh, and the obstruction which the circulation must inevitably meet with in that artery, when the limb is bent, we see a probable reason why it should be more liable to disease than any of the other ramifications of the aorta; especially when it is found that 'aneurisms in the aorta itself are most frequent at the curve of that artery. If this observation is allowed to have any weight, the reason will be evident why the disease should occur more frequently in coachmen and postilions; for their knees being almost constantly in a bent state, from the necessary exertions of their bodies in their different occupations, and from the violent motion of their horses and carriages, the circulation must often be considerably increased; while the branches immediately below the po] liteal artery will be in some measure obstructed by the action of the gastro. cnemii and solsei muscles, in steadying the body in the stirrup, or against the foot- board of the carriage. The unfavourable circumstances respecting the popliteal artery, do not in common life seem of themselves capable of producing disease, but when increased to a great de- gree, as in the occupations of coachmen and postilions. They, at the same time, from want of sufficient exercise, have their legs weaker and less healthy than the rest of the body ; and the cases to be mentioned appear still further to prove, that these circum- stances may produce such a state of the artery' at this part, as to dispose to the forma- tion of aneurism.ON THE CURE OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 597 rism, the carotid artery, as being near the heart, was selected for that purpose. Mr. Hunter having laid bare the carotid artery of a dog, for above an inch in length, having removed its external coat, and afterwards dissected off the other coats, layer after layer, till what remained was so thin that the blood was plainly to be seen through it, left the dog to himself. In about three weeks the dog was killed and the parts examined, when it appeared that the two sides of the wound having closed upon the ar- tery, the whole of the surrounding parts were consolidated, forming a strong bond of union, and the artery itself was neither increased nor diminished in size. This experiment appeared very conclusive, as the coats of the artery were weakened to a much greater degree, without dilatation, than can ever happen from accident in the living body, independent of morbid affection. But it was objected, on the other hand, that the parts hav- ing been left to themselves, immediately closed upon the weakened por- tion of the artery, and, being cemented together by the coagulated blood, effectually secured it against any dilatation. To try the force of this objection, I made the following experiment. I laid bare the femoral artery of a dog, about two inches below Pou- part’s ligament, for about an inch in length, and dissected off the coats, till the haemorrhage from the vasa vasorum was considerable, and the circulating blood was distinctly seen through the internal membrane of the artery. The haemorrhage soon stopped by exposure, the surface was wiped dry, and afterwards covered with a dossil of lint, to prevent the sides of the wound from uniting. The dog continued very well, and the wound healed up from the bottom; after six weeks the dog was killed, and the artery was injected, that it might be examined with greater accuracy. It was not perceptibly enlarged or diminished, and its coats at this part had recovered their natural thickness and appearance. The results of these experiments confirmed Mr. Hunter in his opinion that the artery, in cases of aneurism, is in a diseased state, and led him to believe that the disease often extends along the artery for some way from the sac; and that the cause of failure in the common operation arises from tying a diseased artery, which is incapable of union, in the time necessary for the separating of the ligature. 1 he femoral and popliteal arteries are portions of the same trunk, pre- senting themselves on different sides of the thigh, and are readily come at in either situation ; but where the artery is passing from the one side to the other, it is more buried in the surrounding parts, and cannot be exposed without some difficulty. In performing the operation for the popliteal aneurism, especially when598 ON THE CURE OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. the tumour is large, the ligature is commonly applied on the artery at that part where it emerges from the muscles. This mode of performing the operation will be found inadequate, if the disease of the artery ex- tends above the sac ; for if the artery should afterwards give way, there will not be a sufficient length of vessel remaining to allow of its being again secured in the ham. To follow the artery up, through the inser- tion of the triceps muscle, to get at a portion of it where it is sound, becomes a very disagreeable part of the operation.; and to make an in- cision upon the fore part of the thigh, to get at and secure the femoral artery, would be breaking new ground : a thing to be avoided, if pos- sible, in all operations. Mr. Hunter, from having made these observations, was led to propose, that in this operation the artery should be taken up in the anterior part ol the thigh, at some distance from the diseased part, so as to diminish the^risk of haemorrhage, and admit of the artery being more readily se- cured, should any such accident happen. The force of the circulation being thus taken off from the aueurismal sac, the progress of the disease would be stopped; and he thought it probable, that if the parts were left to themselves, the sac, with its contents, might be absorbed, and the whole of the tumour removed, which would render any opening into the sac unnecessary. , Upon this principle Mr. Hunter performed the operation at St. George’s Hospital. . , 'ilie patient was a coachman, forty-five years of age ; he was admitted into the hospital in December 1785, with a popliteal aneurism, which he had first perceived three years previous to his admission, and had observed it gradually to increase during the whole of that period. It was so large as to distend the two hamstrings laterally, and make a very considerable rising between them; the pulsation was very distinct, and to be felt on every side of the tumour. The leg and foot of that side were so swelled as to be much thicker than the other, and were of a. mottled brown colour; the swelling was not of the ccdcmatous kind, but felt firm and brawny, probably from the extravasation of coagulable lymph ; the leg retained its natural shape, excepting that it was larger. Previous to performing the operation, a tourniquet was applied upon the upper part of the thigh, but not tightened, that the parts might be left as much in their natural situation as possible. The operation was begun by making an incision on the anterior and inner part of the thigh, rather below its middle, which incision was con- tinued obliquely across the inner edge of the sartorius muscle, and made large, to give room for the better performing of whatever might be thought necessary in the course of the operation. The fascia whichON THE CURE OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 599 covers the artery was then laid bare about three inches in length, after which the artery itself was plainly felt. A slight incision, about an inch long, was thqn made through this fascia, along the side of the vessel, and the fascia dissected off; by this means the artery was exposed. Having disengaged the artery from its lateral connections by the knife, and from the other adhering parts by the help of a thin spatula, a double ligature was passed behind it, by means of an eyed probe. The doubling of the ligature brought through by the probe, was cut so as to form two sepa- rate ligatures. The artery was now tied by both these ligatures, but so slightly as only, to compress the sides together. A similar application of ligature was made a little lower. The reason for having four liga- tures was to compress such a length of artery as might make up for the want of tightness, it being wished to avoid great pressure on the vessel at any one part. The ends of the ligatures were carried directly out at the wound, the sides of which were now brought together, and supported by sticking-plaster and a linen roller, that they might unite by the first intention. The limb was found, some hours after the operation, not only to re- tain its natural heat,,but even to be warmer than the other leg. The second day after the operation the brawny firmness of the leg was con- siderably diminished, it was become soft, loose, and a good deal smaller, and the aneurismal tumour had lost more than one third of its size. Nothing could show more plainly the action of the absorbents than the change the leg had undergone in so short a time ; the diminution of the tumour probably arising from the fluid blood which it contained having passed into collateral branches, or into the tibial artery. The fourth day, on the removal of the dressings, the edges of the wound were found united through its whole length, excepting where prevented by the ligatures; there was neither pain nor tumefaction in the part; but the aneurismal tumour was the same as on the second day. On the ninth day after the operation there was a considerable discharge of blood from the part where the ligatures passed out; a tourniquet was therefore applied on the artery above, which stopped the bleeding; and although the tourniquet was taken off a few hours after, no blood fol- lowed. The head of a roller was then placed upon the wound, in the direction of the artery, and over that the tourniquet, which was not, however, tightened more than was thought sufficient to take off the im- petus of the blood in that portion of the artery. . On the tenth day appearances were much the same, only that between the compress and the knee there appeared a little fulness, like beginning inflammation. On the eleventh day this was gone off, and on the fif-600 ON THE CURE CF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. teenth some of the ligatures came away, followed by a small discharge o matter, the tumour in the ham being lessened. On the seventeenth day the parts surrounding the aneurismal tumour were more reduced and pliable, so that it was distinctly to be felt. About the latter end of January 1786, six weeks after the operation, the patient went out of the hospital, the tumour at that time being somewhat lessened, and rather firmer to the feel. He was ordered to come to the hospital once every week, and, in the mean time, to make some degree of pressure, by application of a compress and bandage, with a view to excite the absorbents to action, which in most cases has a good effect. ° About the middle of February' the tumour had decreased, and was become still firmer. March the 8th the wound, which had cicatrized, broke out again, and the patient was taken into the hospital. About the 8th of April some of the remaining thread of the ligature came away, and an inflammation appeared upon the upper part of the thigh. In the middle of May a small abscess broke at some distance from the old ci- catrix, at which opening some matter was discharged, but no pieces of ligature were observed. Several small threads were, at different times, discharged from the old sore, and the swelling subsided; but the thigh soon swelled again to a greater size than before, attended with consider- able pain. In the beginning of July, a piece of ligature, about one inch in length, came away, after which the swelling went off entirely, and he left the hospital the 8th of July, at which time there remained no ap- pearnnce of tumour in the ham, he being in every respect well. After leaving the hospital the man returned to his usual occupation of driving a hackney coach, and being, from tbe nature of his employ- ment, much exposed to cold, in March 1787 he was seized with a fever of the remittent kind, which carried him off. He had not made any complaint of the limb on which the operation had been performed from fhe time of his leaving the hospital. lie died on the 1st of April, 1787, fifteen months after the operation, /nd leave was procured, with some trouble and considerable expense, to examine tbe limb seven days after death, at which time it was en- tirely free from putrefaction. The cicatiix on the anterior part of the thigh was scarcely discernible, but the pai ts under it felt hard. The ham had no appearance of tumour, and was to the eye exactly like that of the other limb ; there was, how- ever, a solid tumour perceptible to the touch, filling up the hollow be- tween the two angles of the thigh-bone. The femoral artery and vein were taken out above the giving off theON THE CURE OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 601 branch called profunda, and a little below the division into the arteriae tibiales and interossea. The arteries and veins that were pervious being injected, the whole was carefully dissected. The femoral artery was impervious from its giving off the arteria pro- funda as low as the part included in the ligature, and at that part there was an ossification for about an inch and an half along the course of the artery, of an oval form, the rim of which was solid, becoming thinner towards the centre, and not bony, but ligamentous. Below this part the femoral artery was pervious down to the aneurismal sac, and con- tained blood, but did not communicate with the sac itself, having become impervious just at the entrance. What remained of the aneurismal sac was somewhat larger than a hen’s egg, but more oblong, and a little flattened, extending along the artery below for some way, the blood pressing with greater force in that direction, and distending that part so as in some measure to give the appearance of a separate bag. The sac was perfectly circumscribed, not having the smallest remains of the lower orifice into the popliteal artery ; whether this arose from the artery being pressed upon by the inferior portion of the sac, as appears to be the case in common, or was in con- sequence of the sac contracting after the operation, I will not pretend to determine ; but it contained a solid coagulum of blood, which adhered to its internal surface. A section made of this coagulum appeared to be composed of concentric lamellae, uniform in colour and consistence. The popliteal artery, a little way below the aneurismal sac, was joined by a small branch, very much contracted, which must have arisen either from the profunda, or the trunk of the femoral artery. About two inches below the sac, the popliteal gave off, or divided into the tibiales. The profunda was of the usual size, but a good deal ossified for some length after leaving the femoral artery; the two tibials, where they go off from the popliteal, were in the same state. The trunk of the femoral vein, where it passed along the side of the tumour, must have been obliterated, for at this part it appeared to send off three equal-sized branches, passing over different parts of the aneu- rismal sac : these must have been dilated branches, none of them having the course which the trunk of the vein should have pursued. lliese appearances throw some light upon the changes which took place in the limb after the operation. The ligature upon the femoral artery impeded the passage of the blood into the sac so much as to al- low its contents to coagulate, and render the opening into it from the artery impervious. By this a stop was only put to the increase of the tumour; its reduction to the size met with in the dead body, must have been the effect of absorption.602 ON THE CURE OF TIIE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 1 he conclusion to be drawn from the above account appears a very important one, viz. that simply taking off the force of the circulation from the aneurismal artery, is sufficient to effect a cure of the disease, or at least to put a stop to its progress, and leave .the parts in a situ- ation from which the actions of the animal ceconomy are capable of re- storing them to a natural state. In confirmation of the cure of aneurism depending on taking off the, force of the circulation, I shall mention a case of aneurism that recovered without an operation, and in which the mode of recovery depended upon the same principle. The aneurism was in the femoral artery, and the swelling appeared upon the anterior part of the thigh, a little above the middle, extending upwards nearly to Poupart’s ligament; an attempt was made, by com- pressing the artery above the tumour, by means of an instrument some- •what resembling a steel truss, to give the blood in the sac a chance of coagulating, and by that means put a stop to the progress of the dis- ease. But, from the pain which it occasioned, every attempt to make a permanent compression on the artery proved ineffectual. The tumour increased to a very considerable size, a great degree of inflammation and swelling took place in the sac and common integuments, and mortifica- tion appeared to be coming on the skin. While in this state no pul- sation could be felt in the tumour, or the artery immediately above it, so that the steps preceding mortification had taken place*, which put a stop to the dilatation of the sac, and all its consequences. From the time the pulsation in the sac stopped, the inflammation and swelling subsided, although very slowly; and as the tumour diminished it became firm and solid, and the patient got perfectly well. It appears from these ca«es that surgeons have laid too much stress upon the supposed necessity of large collateral branches, to insure the success of this operation: an opinion which must have arisen from ana- tomical knowledge, rather than observations made from practice. I he second time Mr. Hunter performed this operation was upon a trooper about forty years of age. A tourniquet having been loosely npplied upon the thigh, the opera- tion was begun by a longitudinal incison through the integuments, and the artery and vein were exposed, as in the former case, but not taken up with a number of ligatures, for nothing appeared to have been gained by such practice, and the bad effects of it were obvious in the progress * On examining the bodies of those who die in consequence of mortifications, the artery leading to the mortified part is completely stopped up with a firm coagulum for several inches in length; this must precede the mortification, and seems intended to prevent htemorrhage.—From Mr. Hunter's Lectures,ON THE CURE OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 603 of the cure ; they were included in one strong ligature, sufficiently tight to prevent the pulsation in the sac without injuring the coats of the vessels. The ends of the ligature were brought out at the wound, which was in this case dressed from the bottom. The advantages pro- posed by this treatment were, to be able to see the progress of the cure, and to come readily at the artery, if any unfavourable circumstance oc- curred, since the abscesses in the former case were-, suspected to have arisen from the mode of healing. After the operation, the superficial veins of the leg became exceed- ingly turgid and numerous, and the limb, although warm, became rather less so than the other, particularly the foot. Ihe next day the leg was swelled, and the heat 12° lower than the other; the second day it exceeded the other 5°; and on the fourth day the two limbs were equally warm : the patient was free from fever. On the fourteenth day the ligature came away,- and the torniquet was loosely applied, as a precaution against bleeding; the sartorius muscle was a good deal enlarged, and covered the passage down to the artery, so as to prevent the matter from having a free discharge, a good deal being confined behind it, and with difficulty squeezed out at each dressing. On the nineteenth day there was a haemorrhage from behind the muscle, the swelling of which rendered -it nearly as difficult to come at the vessel, as if the parts had healed by the first intention : the bleeding was stopped by applying pressure, after having lost about ten or twelve ounces. On the twentieth there was a slight bleeding, which was readily stopped : yet five hours afterwards the femoral artery gave way, and he lost about one pound of blood before the tourniquet was applied. The artery was laid bare, and tied a little higher up, the patient being very weak and low : in this state he continued till the twenty-third day with- out bleeding, when it bled again from a small vessel. On the twenty- sixth, a considerable haemorrhage having taken place, he became faint, then delirious, had vomiting -with hiccough, and died the same day. Upon examining the limb, sinuses were discovered, both upwards and downwards, in the direction of the artery and sartorius muscle, besides smaller ones in different directions. In thi3 case the bad consequences and death of the patient do not ap- pear to have arisen from the operation, but were entirely the result of the mode of treatment afterwards, as will appear from the following cases. The third patient operated upon by Mr. Hunter was a postilion, thirty-five years old. Compression upon the femoral artery' was at- tempted, but the pain was so great that it could not be continued.604 OX THE CURE OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. In performing the operation only one ligature was used, and the parts healed by the first intention. On the seventh day after the operation the first dressings were re- moved, and a good deal of matter came out by the side of the ligature. On the fourteenth the ligature came away, and in four weeks the wound healed. The sac in the ham, from being chafed previous to the operation, burst at this time, but healed up like any other sore, and at the end of three months he was perfectly recovered. Mr. Hunter s fourth patient was a coachman, thirty-six years old. The tumour in the ham was not very large, and situated lower down than usual, the whole leg being swelled, and the veins turgid. The pain he complained of was exceedingly violent, but being in a very bad state of health an operation was not thought advisable, and gentle pressure on the tumour was attempted; but, from the pain it occasioned, the operation was had recourse to, as the only chance of saving his life, al- though, from the irritable state in which he then was, even that seemed a forlorn hope. In performing the operation the vein was not included in the ligature; but in other respects it was similar to the formera. Immediately after the operation the limb was benumbed, and conti- nued so for some time, which was singular, as the nerve had not been included. It became, on the same day, four or five degrees hotter than the other leg, and continued so for the first fourteen days, when the tem- perature became the same as that of the other limb. 1 he sixth day the first dressings w'ere removed, and the skin was united everywhere except at the passage of the ligature. It remained in this state till the twenty-first, when the cicatrix inflamed and ulcer- ated, with a sloughy appearance, and hardness up the thigh. On the twenty-ninth day the ligature came away; the sore now put on a better appearance, suppuration took place where the hardness had been in the course of the artery, and the parts became softer, the dis- charge gradually diminished, and in the seventh week the wound was healed. But it did not continue so: for in three days an inflammation took place, and an abscess formed, and burst at the cicatrix, which also healed up. ( If from this expression we are to infer that the artery and vein were included in the same ligature in the other cases, it readily accounts for the troublesome effects which ensued in those operations.]ON THE CURE OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 605 About the end of the tenth week he was attacked with a very severe remitting fever, which lasted fourteen days, arid left him much reduced ; but in the fourteenth week he was so far recovered as to leave the ho- spital, and go into the country for the recovery of his health. The fifth patient upon whom Mr. Hunter performed this operation was Joseph Caswell, aged forty-two, a man not accustomed to horse exercise or any mode of life which could in the least assist in producing the disease. The aneurism was in the ham of the left leg. In performing the operation the artery alone was included in a strong single ligature, and the wound was healed by the first intention, leav- ing a passage for the ligature. The local inflammation was extremely small, and consequently attended with little sympathetic fever. The ligature came away the eleventh day, and in five weeks he went into the country, able to walk with a stick, the wound perfectly healed. In this case the heat of the two legs was carefully examined twice a day, from the second to the ninth after the operation, and the limb operated upon was uniformly colder than the other. He came to town six months after the operation, and said that the left leg was fully as strong as the right, but when exposed to cold he was more sensible of its eftects upon that leg. About two months after the operation he had a violent pain in the upper part of the left foot, similar to what is felt when a nerve is pressed : this lasted for about six weeks, and afterwards went entirely off. As no nerve was included in the li- gature, this affection probably arose from the nerve in its passage through the consolidated parts being deprived of its natural freedom. There was a small tumour, the remains of the aneurismal sac, very distinctly to be felt in the ham, but without pulsation, and to the feel perfectly solid. The following case was operated upon by Mr. Lynn, surgeon of the Westminster Hospital, in the same manner as above mentioned ; and the account of the operation is given in his own words :— “ Samuel Smart, a hackney-coachman, twenty-five years of age, had a popliteal aneurism, for which I performed the operation in the follow- ing manner. I made an incision down to the femoral artery, a little below the middle of the thigh, and having separated the artery from the contiguous parts, I passed under it, by means of an eyed probe, a broad ligature, which was tied so as to cut off7 all communication with the tu- mour, and the lips of the wound were brought together and retained by sticking-plaster, and the patient put to bed: this leg was rather colder than the other, and ordered to be fomented. The next day he was free from pain, and the limb was warmer than the other. “ On the fourth the dressings were removed, and the parts were found united, except at the ligature.b‘06 ON THE CURE OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. On the thirteenth the ligature came away, and in the course of the month the whole was healed, and the patient soon afterwards perfectly recovered. xit , „ VV illiam Lynn. This operation of Mr. Hunter’s having succeeded in the first instance, surgeons of different hospitals were led to adopt it, but with some vari- ation, according to their own judgment and the circumstances of the re- spective cases. These I did not introduce in the order in which they took place; for not being performed exactly in-the same manner, they would have interrupted the regular series of those cases above related. But I shall now give them either in the words of the surgeons who per- formed the operations, or as correctly as I can from having myself been an eye-witness; and although they were not attended with success, that circumstance will not be found to affect the propriety of the mode of performing this operation which has been recommended above. In a case of aneurism of the femoral artery, the operation was per- formed by Mr. Birch, surgeon to St. Thomas’s Hospital, who relates the history as follows: “John Lewis, a negro, aged forty-three, received a blow on the ante- rior part of the right thigh; about a month after he perceived a small tumour, which gradually increased, and his own expression was that he could feel it thump, thump. As the tumour enlarged, he came to London for advice, applied at St. I homas’s Hospital, on Thursday, the 26th of October, and was di- rectly admitted. On examination I found a large tumour, extending within two inehes of Poupart’s ligature upwards, and occupying two thirds of the thigh : a pulsation could be felt, and there was no doubt of the disease being an aneurism of the femoral artery'. I directed seven ounces of blood to be taken from the arm, and an opiate to be given at night; the patient rested well, and the next day a consultation was held, in which it was proposed to perform an opera- tion, and endeavour to pass a ligature round the femoral artery, giving the patient the chance of nourishing the limb by the arteria profunda and other anastomising vessels. “ 0n Friday, the 3rd of November, it was determined to perform the operation. Mr. Cline undertook to compress the artery as it passes through Poupart s ligament, which he easily effected with a hard com- press, in the shape of a T, with a broad basis. ' ^ was agreed, previous to the operation, that an incision should be carried in a semilunar form round the upper part of the aneurismal sac, in order to make room for the longitudinal incision necessary to dissect down to the artery. This was accordingly done, and the integumentsON THE CURE OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 607 raised, so as to make room to feel for the pulsation of the artery; some portion of cellular membrane and lymphatic glands were necessarily dis- sected and removed. With my fingers I then separated the muscular fibres, and tore away the connecting parts till the artery could be plainly felt in pulsation : it was then necessary to divide a part of the fascia covering the artery, which was done by carrying the back of the knife on Mr. Cline’s nail, while his finger pressed upon the naked artery ; after which the finger and thumb could surround and compress the vessel: an eye-probe, armed with a strong flat ligature, was then pushed through the cellular membrane, and carried under the artery. This being effected, we had such command of the vessel as to be able to strip it down, and pass another ligature somewhat lower. This last ligature was then tied, the first being left loose, to secure Its against accident. “ The threads being separated and secured, the wound was lightly dressed, the tumour left in its natural situation, and the patient put to bed, with the loss of only four or five ounces of blood during the opera- tion. No pulsation could be perceived in the tumour after the ligature was tied. “ 0° Saturday, November 4th, he had slept well, was easy, and there wos sufficient warmth in the extremity to assure me of some circulation. On the 5th, the discharge from the wounded lymphatics was so abun- dant as to make it necessary to remove the superficial dressings; the tumour was rather softer to the touch, and the skin about the apex of it began to shrivel. •' The discharge of lymph continued till the 9th, and then the wound began to digest; affording, however, a very small quantity of pus. The tumour grew thinner at one point, and seemed as if disposed to ulcer- ate the integuments. I his day I passed a bleeding-ligature round the leg, just below the knee, and the veins tumefied sufficiently to have hied freely if they had been punctured. “ 10th. He was feverish in the evening. " llth- He had stools from some laxatives I had directed and was better. 12th. 1 he tumour* was very thin at one part, and a fluctuation evidently to be felt. The limb was warm and moveable, but the patient was feverish, and delirious at night. A decoction of bark, with a seda- tive bolus, was directed for him ; but he would not take them. 13th. I he wound looked florid, and afforded good pus ; the pa- tient was feverish and delirious; the tumour was threatening to burst. This day he took his medicines. “ 14th. He became sensible, but was languid and hot ; the tumour burst, and discharged serum and grumous blood ; he fainted ; the dress-608 ON THE CURE OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. ings were not disturbed , he slept composedly; fainted again about six o’clock in the evening, and expired. I saw him at seven, when the limb was still w_arm; I removed the dressings, and found a small stream of fresh arterial blood, which had issued from the wound. “ 11 appears probable that if the patient had applied for relief before the tumour was so much enlarged, the operation might have succeeded, as we should then have been able to have tied the sound artery so much lower down. j Bihch.” The body was examined the morning after the patient’s death bv Mr. Cline. “ The integuments on the middle of the tumour were mortified. The blood contained in the tumour was very putrid, and the greater part of it fluid, it appearing to have been dissolved by putrefaction. ^ ater injected by the external iliac artery escaped freely from the wound at the ligature where the artery was open, which appeared to have ulcerated at that part. “ I'1 laying open the artery from the ligature to the heart, its internal surface appeared of a bright red. This appearance lessened at the cur- vature of the aorta, yet it was very evident in its semilunar valves. I he arteria profunda, which passed oft from the femoral artery' rather less than half an inch above the ligature, was also inflamed within. I here were near two inches of the femoral artery between the ligature and the aneurismal sac, the internal surface of which was of the usual white colour; from this a membranous-like substance could be peeled off-, that seemed to resemble oongulable lymph. " The opening where the artery' passed out of the aneurismal sac was near three inches below the part where it entered. In opening this part of the artery from the sac to the ham it appeared quite sound, and of its natural colour. H. Clink.” This mode of operating was adopted by Mr. Pott in a case of popli- teal aneurism in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, w'hich operation having been the object of medical attention for some time, I shall give a brief account of it, as 1 was present at the time it was performed. Mr. Pott began the operation by making an incision about five inches in length upon the posterior part of the thigh, through the common in- teguments, a little higher than the tumour, and in the direction of the thigh, between the two hamstrings ; he then dissected dowm to the ves- sels at the upper end of the incision, which being there deep seated, proved both tedious and difficult. Having come to the vessels, a double ligature wras passed, and the two portions tied separately, at nearly halfON THE CURE OF TITE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 609 an inch distance. The depth of the incision made it difficult for any but the operator and those immediately assisting him to see what was included in the ligature, and at the time the popliteal artery was sup- posed to be secured by it. The wound was dressed up in the common way. The second day after the operation a pulsation was felt in the tumour, which afterwards enlarged so much that Mr. Pott amputated the limb. It is said that the aneurism appeared, upon an examination of the limb, to have been in an anastomising branch, not in the trunk of the artery. 'flie following remarks upon this operation will tend in some measure to illustrate the method recommended and practised by Mr. Hunter. The mode of taking up the artery in the ham must be always unfa- vourable to the future success of the operation, if either the artery it- self should be diseased, or if the tumour, by being so contiguous to the violence done in the operation, should be affected by the consequent inflammation, which seems to have been the case in Mr. Pott’s operation, as I understand two abscesses were formed close to the sides of the sac. Had the aneurism been situated in an anastomising branch of the po- pliteal artery, given off below' the ligature, there should have been no pulsation afterw'ards in the tumour; and were it in a branch going oft' above the ligature, the pulsation in the tumour should have continued immediately after the operation, and should have been increased by it, neither of which effects appear really to have taken place, which throw's a doubt upon the situation of the aneurism if the popliteal artery was rendered impervious by the compression of the ligature. Mr. Cline, surgeon to St. Thomas’s Hospital, performed the operation for the popliteal aneurism in the following manner, at which I w'as pre- sent ; and although not exactly as recommended by Mr. Hunter, it was very nearly so. The particulars of the case I have not received from Mr. Cline, but have taken them from my own observation, and the in- formation of gentlemen who attended the patient, and w-ere present at the examination after death. The patient was a sailor, who came into St. Thomas’s Hospital to undergo the operation for the popliteal aneurism. Mr. Cline made a longitudinal incision on the anterior part of the thigh, and having laid bare the artery, passed, by means of a tin instru- ment, a double tape, about one inch broad, behind the artery, the two pieces of tape lying one over the other ; the piece of tin which conducted the tape was cut off, and a cork nearly an inch long was laid upon the artery, and confined to its situation by means of the upper tape, pro- ducing in this way a sufficient pressure upon the vessel included between VOL. HI, 2 R6!0 ON THE CURE OF addition to those already stated, in favour of this operation. I have re- THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. the ligature and cork to stop the circulation, and consequently the pul- sation in the tumour in the ham ; the other portion of tape was lcftlojse. The intention of securing the artery in this way was to compress the sides of the vessel together, and produce an union without ulceration. The patient went on very well, and the ninth day the tapes were removed, and everything seemed to be going on very favourablv, when the patient was attacked by a fever (which was supposed to be caught from another patient in the same ward), of which he died. Lpon examining the state of the limb after death, it was found that ulceration had taken place through the whole extent of the artery in- cluded in the tape, and sinuses were formed both upwards and down- wards, in the course of the thigh, to some distance. I cannot conclude this paper without observing that it is seldom in giv ing an account of a new’ operation we are able to collect materials sufficient to render it so satisfactory as the present, having in our pos- session not only the successful and unsuccessful cases, but also an ac- count of the appearances after death, under both circumstances, so that the causes of failure are rendered evident in those instances in which it did not succeed, and the means that are likely to insure future success are clearly pointed out. The operation is in itself simple; it requires but a short time in the performance, and produces little, if any, affection of the constitution; but its advantages are more clearly seen by contrasting it with the com- mon mode of operating for the popliteal aneurism. This is by exposing the sac in the ham through its whole extent, laying it open, scooping out the blood, searching for the two orifices leading into it, and taking up the artery with a ligature both above and below the sac. When this operation is over there remains a large deep-seated sore, composed of parts not perfectly in a natural state, and in a most disadvantageous situation, which sore is to suppurate, granulate, and heal, a process that is not soon performed, and w’hich must leave a stiff knee for some time afterwards. Yet this is considering the operation in the most favour- able view, since there is always a risk, from the artery being diseased so close to the sac, of the patient dying from a secondary bleeding; and when that does not happen there is still some danger of not being able to support the constitution during the healing of so large a sore, under circumstances so very unfavourable. It is in comparison with this operation, the only one before in use, that the present improvement is to be considered, and it is in this view that I have thought it deserving the attention of the Society. I cannot close this account without inserting the following case, inON THE CURE OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. fill 2 a 2 ceived it just time enough to give it a place, as the paper was in the press before it came to hand, and feel myself obliged to Mr. Earle for his readiness in communicating it. “ Hanover-Square, March 10, 1792. “ Sir, “ At your request I send you some account of the following case, and am Your most obedient Servant, “James Earle. “ John Smith, about fifty years of age, was received into St. Bartho- lomew’s Hospital on account of a fever. After having been under the care of the physician some time, he complained of a swelling and pain in his left leg, for which I was desired to visit him. He said, about six months before he had fallen from a scaffold ; that his leg was caught be- tween the rounds of a ladder, which broke his fall; that he felt imme- diately pain in the upper part of his leg; soon after it began to swell, and had gradually increased to its present size. On examination there appeared a large hard swelling under the heads of the gastrocnemii muscles, reaching up to the bend of the leg. A pulsation was plainly to be felt in it, and there was no doubt of its being an aneurism. It ■was now increasing very fast in size ; the tumour, by its pressure, caused exquisite pain, all the lower part of the leg was loaded with cedematous swelling, and it became, absolutely necessary to perform some operation to prevent a mortification taking place. “ Having noticed with much satisfaction the success which attended Mr. Hunter’s method of tying the artery in the thigh, in a similar case, I decided in favour of that operation; but as, in the present instance, the artery appeared to be in its natural and perfect state in the ham, and in its whole course, till it reached the dilatation below the knee, I preferred taking it up in that part, rather than to tie it in the middle of the thigh, under the sartorius muscle, though it lies there more super- ficial, and more easily to be got at; because I thought the chance of the circulation being carried on was equal, if not greater, and if it should fail, and symptoms should occur to create a suspicion of an impending mortification, there might be an opportunity of removing the limb above the ligature, which would be impracticable if the artery was tied in the middle of the thigh. '* Jan. 28, 1792. The patient being laid on his face, and the tourni- quet loosely applied, I made an incision about five inches long, in the direction of the artery, wfithin those tendons which compose the inner ham-string. 1 then gradually separated the cellular substance; in doing this the nerve was exposed, which ran in its usual course, external to the artery, and much more superficial. In finding the artery some dif-612 ON THE CURE OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. ficulty occurred, on account of the tumefaction of all the parts, affected by their vicinity to the aneurism, and from the imperceptibility of pul- sation in the artery till it was actually laid bare: however, having dis- covered it in its usual situation near the bone, and in its natural undi- lated state, I passed a ligature round it, about two inches above the tu- mour. I now again examined, and being convinced that the artery was included alone in the ligature, 1 gradually made it tight, till I felt a pulsation above-it, and none below, when I desisted, concluding that any pressure beyond this degree would be useless and dangerous. “ I will just observe here, that I found the common aneurismal needle with a handle very inconvenient, and would recommend in this case, where the artery lies so deep, a blunt semicircular needle, with the eye about half an inch from the end, without any handle. “ The wound was closed in the usual manner, and the edges brought together by sutures. On the following day the man was free from pain, the tumour much less tense or hard, and the whole leg greatly unloaded. No perceptible alteration in the heat of the limb could be remarked; when the current of blood was obstructed in the superficial veins by pressure, on its removal they immediately again became turgid, and in short every appearance indicated a continuance of perfect circu- lation. “ On the fifteenth day succeeding the operation the ligature came away, the limb was soft and unloaded, and the incision nearly healed; at the distance of six weeks there remains a small tumour, with some perceptible fluctuation. The patient cannot perfectly extend his leg, but is able to walk with the assistance of crutches.”ON THE CURE OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 613 ADDITIONAL CASES TO ILLUSTRATE MR. HUNTER’S METHOD OF PERFORMING THE OPERATION FOR THE CURE OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. By Sir Everard Home, Bart., F.R.S. Read June 5, 1798. [Prom the Transactions of a Society for the Improvement of Medical and Chirurgical Knowledge, Vol. II. p. 235. 1800.] In a former paper published in the first volume of the Transactions of this Society, I stated the reasons that induced the late Mr. Hunter to propose this operation, and mentioned all the cases in which it had at that time been performed, either by himself or others. Since Mr. Hunter’s death two cases have occurred in which the pa- tients had aneurisms in both popliteal arteries, and others where the disease was only in one. In these cases this operation was performed, and the intention of the present paper is to communicate to the Society these new facts. Case I. John Clegg, aged 33 years, a tobacco-pipe maker, was ad- mitted into St. George’s Hospital May 29th, 1797, with two popliteal aneurisms. It appeared that about eight weeks before his admission, while walking, he felt, for the first time, an acute pain in the calf of the right leg, ex- tending downwards, which gradually increased. Three weeks after- wards he perceived a swelling in the ham, which enlarged, and in a week more had an evident pulsation in it : this swelling proved to be an aneurism of the popliteal artery. 1 he knee also swelled, and was painful. WTien he came into the hospital the aneurismal tumour in the right ham appeared externally through the skin, of the size of a large hen’s egg: there was also at that time a small aneurism in the popliteal artery of the other leg. He had thick lips, a very red nose, and a pale complexion ; and for some months past had experienced frequent bleedings from the nose. 1 he nature of his business obliged him to walk, upon an average, 16 or 17 miles a day, carrying pipes to his respective customers, with the greater part of whom he was compelled to drink porter, which, in the course of the day, did not amount to less than 8 or 10 pints. There seemed to have been no other particularity in his mode of life.614 ON THE CURE OF THE PO ELI TEAL ANEURISM. After he had remained in the hospital a few days, on June 9th I per- formed the operation of taking up the femoral artery of his right thigh. In doiug this I laid bare the fascia which covers the vessels, and made an opening through it large enough to expose the whole diameter of the artery. I passed a crooked silver needle, with a rounded point, behind it, taking care not to include the vein and nerve; in this way the needle and ligature were readily brought out on the other side. The ligature was tied, and immediately the pulsation in the tumour ceased. The Mound was united by slips of adhesive plaster and a bandage. About two hours after the operation he complained of considerable pain in the sac, and in the course of the femoral artery, even to the toes. lie took thirty drops of tincture of opium, which dose was repeated at bed time. June 10th. His skin was hot, and his pulse above 100 in a minute; ten ounces of blood were drawn from the arm, and he was ordered to take the saline mixture : the blood, on standing, showed no buff. Two hours afterwards his pulse was 96 in a minute, and softer; he complained of numbness in the leg, with a tingling sensation in about the middle of the sole of the foot; the heat was the same as in the other leg. 11th. His pulse was T20 in a minute, and strong; there was little moisture on the skin, and great pain in the leg and foot. 13th. The wound was dressed for the first time since the operation; it had a healthy appearance, and the parts were united by the first in- tention ; the tumour in the ham was somewhat diminished, while that in the other leg rather increased since the operation. 16th. He was perceptibly better; the pain in the Kmb was much aba- ted : the ligature was removed. This was the 12th day from the opera- tion. 27th. The w'ound was nearly cicatrized, and the aneurism in the other ham was increasing very fast; he was therefore removed from the ho- spital for a fortnight to reestablish his health, that he might undergo the second operation with greater security. July 11th. He returned to have the operation performed on the other femoral artery; which at his desire Mas done on the same day of the week as the former operation, and exactly five weeks after it. 14th. 1 he operation was conducted in every respect in the same manner as the preceding; and the pulsation in the tumour ceased as soon ns the ligature M'as tied upon the artery. 15th. His pulse was 100 in a minute, and full: he passed a restless night, and complained of great pain in the limb, and a slight pulsation was felt in the aneurismal sac. 16th. The pulsation in the sac Mas more distinct; this I imaginedON THE CURE OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 615 arose from some collateral branch having a communication with the sac. A compression was made upon the tumour by means of a circular bandage, to prevent the influx from any collateral branch. 17th. His pulse was about 96 in a minute, strong and full; he had little sleep during the night; the pulsation in the sac was rather less than the day before. He complained of pain about the wound, but net so much in the foot as after the first operation. 18th. His pulse was 73 in a minute: the pulsation in the sac was less; he had a very good night, but now complained of considerable pain in both feet. 24th. He had a slight haemorrhage from the wouud, which w'as brought on by his mind being agitated in consequence of some improper treat- ment his wife had received : it stopped of itself, but the tourniquet was loosely applied in case of a return. He complained of heat where the ligature was made; there wras no difference in the pulsation of the sac. 26th. A second haemorrhage took place from the wound, to the amount of three or four ounces, and then stopped. His pulse was about 108 in a minute; he complained of being faint and languid. I removed the dressings, and upon endeavouring to bring awav the liga- ture, some blood escaped from the wound, per saltum, of a florid colour, supposed to be from the rupture of a small artery; a compress was im- mediately applied to the part, which stopped the bleeding. I removed the compress from the ham, the pulsation in the sac being much abated ; eight ounces of blood were draw n from the arm, and he took the saline mixture. The haemorrhage returned about seven in the even- ing, but was immediately stopped by increasing the compression. 27th. He was very restless all night, and had acute shooting pains in the wound; the bandages were slackened. 28th. He slept well during the night, and had a greater degree of moisture on the skin, and the pains in the limb w'ere not so violent; the dressings w'ere removed, and the wound appeared disposed to slough ; the pulsation in the sac was scarcely perceptible. 29th. His spirits were much better; there was an appearance of swelling and inflammation between the wound and the knee; the pressure was therefore removed from the artery, and applied more uni- formly over the whole limb. 20th. The ligature was removed without haemorrhage; this was the sixteenth day after the operation. August 6th. The haemorrhage returned at five o’clock in the morning, to the amount of four ounces; a compress was applied to the wound, and kept on by a bandage ; he was very restless during the night. 8th. His pulse Avas 110 in a minute, and felt hard and contracted.616 ON THE CURE OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. He was ordered to take a bolus, containing three grains of camphor, every six hours. 10th. Had a bleeding from his nose, amounting to two ounces ; he was ordered to lose four ounces of blood from the arm ; the dose of cam- phor was increased to five grains; the pulse was 108 in a minute, and rpiick before the bleeding, but about twenty minutes afterwards the pulse was reduced to 96 in a minute, and he complained of faintness. 14th. The tourniquet was totally removed. 16th. He felt great pain upon touching the skin of any part of the limb, but particularly at the ham. 18th. Had a very good night, and the wound was superficial, and re- duced to the size of a sixpence : it was now exactly five weeks from the operation ; a circular bandage was still applied, and the sore dressed ■with ungt. hydrarg. nitrat. and hog’s lard in equal proportions; there still remained great sensibility in the skin. 26th. The pain in the limb was much abated; the leg had been fo- mented with tepid salt water for several days, which gave him a great deal of ease ; the wound was nearly healed, and the limb admitted of motion without uneasiness. September 18th. He was quite well. I he pulsation being felt in the aneurismal sac the evening after the fe- moral artery was tied, its continuance for several days, and then cea- sing altogether, are circumstances so curious, that it may be right to give some explanation of them. The only way in which the pulsation could recur in the tumour, after it had been stopped, must be by means of anastomosing branches ; and il the branch which renewed the communication had its origin near the ligature, it is probable that in the progress of the cure the femoral ar- tery became obliterated higher up than the origin of this branch, and shut it up. The extent of the artery rendered impervious above the ligature, in the first case operated upon by Mr. Hunter, in which there was an op- portunity of examining the parts after death, makes this more pro- bable. A case of aneurism of both popliteal arteries occurred to Mr. Joseph Harris, surgeon, at Whitehaven, in the year 1796, of which he has favoured me with the following account, as an addition to the facts in fuvour of Mr. Hunter’s mode of operating in cases of this disease. Case II. William Spencer, a corporal in the Cumberland militia, in the thirty-second year of his age, of a tall and muscular make, was ad- mitted a patient into the Whitehaven Hospital in June, 1795. He had a firm inelastic swelling, extending from the middle of the left thighON THE CURE OF T1IE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 617 down to the toes, and attended with most excruciating pain. He gave the following account of his case. Fifteen months ago he wore for two months together a pair of tight leather breeches, which made his legs swell, and become so painful that he was obliged to leave them off; after which time the swelling in the leg subsided, and he suffered no further inconvenience. About a month after this, on his return from a journey on foot of ten miles, on a very hot day, he felt uneasiness in the hams of both legs, but went to bed in good health. In the course of the night lie had a very profuse sweat, and the next day he discovered a small swelling in each ham ; that on the left side continued gradually to in- crease, and had a pulsation in it, which was sensible to the touch for many months, but afterwards was not to be distinguished ; the swell- ing diffused itself over the limb till it arrived at its present size. Upon examining the other ham, I found an aneurismal tumour about the size of a nutmeg, which he said had remained stationary from the time of its first appearance. The left leg seemed to be too much diseased to give the smallest hopes of saving it; the limb was therefore amputated. Upon ex- amining the parts in the amputated limb, the aneurismal sac in the ham was found to have been burst, and eleven pounds and a half of coagulated blood had been diffused among the muscles, which were in a state ap- proaching to mortification. The stump healed kindly, and he continued well for three months, without any apparent enlargement of the aneu- rism in the right ham ; but at the end of this time it began to increase in size, and one day, after a violent exertion on his crutches, he had considerable pain in it, with an evident increase of the swelling, which now stretched both the ham strings ; there was also a diffused swelling extending over the joint of the knee. From the history of the aneu- rism in the other leg, there was reason to expect that this was now burst, and would go on in exactly the same way; it was therefore de- termined to perform the operation for the aneurism immediately accord- ing to Mr. Hunter’s method : this was done on the loth of November, 1795. The artery alone was included in a single ligature, and the skin with the other parts brought together, and retained by adhesive pla- ster. For about two hours after he was put to bed he complained of cold- ness in the foot, but on covering it with flannel it felt as warm as the leg, which was of the natural heat of the body. On the second day the swelling of the leg was a good deal abated, and the tumour itself softer. On the third day the swelling of the leg was entirely gone, and the tumour more diminished. On the sixth day the dressings were removed, and the wound had healed by the first intention, except an inch at the lower part, ■where618 ON THE CURE OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. the ligature passed out. There had been no pain, or swelling of the parts, since the operation, and the limb continued of the natural tem- perature, except on the fourth day, when it was two degrees hotter by Fahrenheit’s thermometer. On the eleventh day the ligature came away, attended with a con- siderable discharge of matter; this continued on the twelfth : I there- fore made compression on the sides of the wound throughout its whole length, by compresses and a tight roller. On the fifteenth the discharge scarcely moistened the dressings. He was attacked with a purging, attended with disorder of the whole system and loss of appetite, which lasted for a fortnight. During this time the superficial sore remained stationary ; but it was completely healed, and the patient discharged from the hospital at the end of the fifth week. The two following Cases contain nothing remarkable; but as they were both operated on in exactly the same manner as the first Case in the present paper, they increase the number of instances in which the most simple mode of performing this operation has been attended with success. I have therefore thought that they will appear to the Society of sufficient importance to be inserted in this place. Case III. A. B., a dragoon, near six feet high, about thirty-six years of age, came into St. George s Hospital in the year 1794, on account of a popliteal aneurism, for which I performed the operation. In making the external incision 1 was desirous of keeping it in a line with the edge of the sartorius muscle, that the muscle and skin might not form a double valve, and prevent the ready discharge of any matter that should be formed, which I had found to be the case in some in- stances above mentioned. As soon as the artery was exposed I did not attempt to disengage it laterally, but made a small opening on each side of it, just large enough to admit the end of the instrument, conveying the ligature, which was in this way passed round the artery, the nerve and vein being pushed on one side; the ligature was secured, and the wound brought together by means of adhesive plaster. 1 he man had no fever; little, if any, inflammation came upon the limb; the ligature came away the twelfth day; and in three weeks he went to his own house, there being only a superficial sore on the skin, which in a week more was entirely healed. Case IV. George Pile, thirty-five years of age, butler to His Royal Highness the Duke of Clarence, a stout man, of a sallow complexion, and a hard drinker, had been sensible of the feeling of weakness in his left leg for two or three months, when he perceived a tumour of the size of a pigeon’s egg in the ham : ten weeks after he applied to Mr. Knight. The tumour had been enlarged, after a journey from Margate upon theON THE CURB OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 619 top of a stage-coach, about a fortnight before, so that now he could not button the knee of his breeches; there was a strong and equal pulsa- tion in every part of the tumour, which left no doubt of its being aneu- rismal; the leg was swelled and felt hard, the pulse was quick, and at times intermitted ; his general health, however, was tolerably good. Mr. Knight proposed performing the operation according to Mr. Hunter’s method; and, knowing that I had lately performed it in that way with success, requested that I would assist him. The operation was performed on the 29th of September, 1797, by Mr. Knight, nearly in the same way that I have described in the case last related: the silver needle was passed behind the artery, without including the vein or nerve, or detaching it for more than a quarter of an inch from its lateral connections; the pul- sation in the ham ceased the moment the ligature upon the artery was tied. The cut edges of the wound were brought together, except where the ligature passed out. On the 30th, the pulse was full and quick; he was therefore ordered to lose ten ounces of blood. August 3rd, the dressings were for the first time removed, and the wound was found united by the first intention : a small quantity of matter was pressed out by the side of the ligature. The wound was now dressed every day, and on the 18th he was allowed to get up; the ligature was examined at each dressing, but could not be brought away without using more force than it was prudent to employ. On the 22nd, there was a slight ha;morrhage from the wound, which was readily stopped by compression. On the 30th, the ligature came away with great ease. November 11th, the wound was completely healed; the tumour in the ham was nearly gone ; the patient in perfect health, and daily gaining strength, and the use of his limb. Case V. Mr. Marshal, a gentleman about fifty years of age, con- sulted me, in May, 179S, on account of a popliteal aneurism. The tumour in the ham, at the time I saw it, was considerably larger than a hen’s eSS■ After examining the case, I gave it as my opinion that an opera- tion was absolutely necessary to prevent a fatal termination of the dis- ease ; and that the chance of recovery depended wholly on the state of the femoral artery: if that was healthy, the operation which I intended to perform would succeed; and if it was not, even amputation of the limb would fail, as the divided artery could not be made to unite. Dr. Marshal’s opinion was taken whether it was advisable to try compression upon the aneurismal tumour; this he did not approve of, and the patient determined to submit to the operation. He walked about, and drank a pint of wine daily, till the operation was performed; although I had urged him in the strongest manner to remain perfectly quiet in a horizontal posture, and to live sparingly.620 ON THE CURE OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. The operation was performed on the 22nd of May; I was assisted by Dr. Marshal, and Dr. Wallis was present. When the incision through the skin had exposed the sartorius muscle, it appeared unusually large, and the fascia covering the artery was got at with difficulty, and was indistinctly seen: this I attributed to the state of the muscles, induced by the exercise which the patient had continued to use. My first attempt to secure the artery failed, from the needle passing over it, and only including a portion of the fascia. I therefore ex- posed the artery more completely, about an inch higher up the thigh, and surrounded it by a ligature : the pulsation in the tumour immedi- ately ceased, and the wound was dressed as in the former cases. The leg continued colder than the other for two days, and then regained its usual heat. On the fourth day, the dressings were removed, and the wound had a healthy appearance ; at this time there was a pulsation in the tumour. On the seventh day, he bore being moved to have his bed made, and was considered to be going on perfectly well. From some mistaken no- tion he now indulged himself in the use of wine, without my knowledge. On the ninth day, he had a violent shivering fit, which was not men- tioned to me; and the use of wine was, notwithstanding, persisted in. On the tenth day, the discharge from the wound was much increased, and the thigh and leg were swelled. On the eleventh day, there was a slight bleeding from the wound, and in the evening a similar bleeding also took place. Alarmed at this cir- cumstance, I left an assistant with the patient. The tourniquet like- wise, which had remained on the thigh, was now adjusted, in case it should be necessary to use it. On the twelfth day, at four in the morning, a violent hemorrhage came on, and at nine he died. The limb was examined next day, in the presence of Dr. Marshal, Dr. Wallis, and Mr. Colthurst. The ligature was found to have in- cluded the artery without the vein, and when the artery was laid open the space embraced by the ligature was quite white, and the coats at that part so thin as to be almost transparent; and there were also se- veral small ulcerations through the coat by which the blood had escaped: there was not the smallest union of the sides of the artery; but imme- diately above and below the ligature the inner membrane had an unusual red appearance. 1 he inner membrane had lost its usual polish, and had its surface covered with opaque white spots ; the same appearance, in a less degree, was seen in the artery near the groin. The ancurismal tumour proved to be a diseased dilatation of the popli-ON THE CURE OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 621 teal artery, of an oval form, situated between the heads of the gastro- cnemius muscle. In this case the femoral artery was so much diseased that probably neither amputation nor any other operation with which we are acquainted would have been attended with success. But as that is a circumstance which rarely happens, and can never be ascertained during the person’s life, it ought not to be considered as an objection to the operation, though its possible existence must always render the event somewhat uncertain. The internal surface of the artery in the present case became inflamed, without admitting the union of its sides, as happens when the operation succeeds. This inflammation, although probably owing chiefly to the diseased state of the artery, may yet in part have been produced by the neglect of proper attention in regard to diet and rest previous to the operation, and more particularly by the indulgence in wine after it.622 CASE OF PARALYSIS OF A CASE OF PARALYSIS OF THE MUSCLES OF DEGLUTI- 1ION, CURED BY AN ARTIFICIAL MODE OF CONVEYING FOOD AND MEDICINES INTO THE STOMACH. By John Hunter, Esq., F.R.S., Surgeon Extraordinary to thk King, and Surgeon General to the Army. Read September 21, 1700. [From the Transactions of a Society for the Improvement of Medical and Chirurgical Knowledge, Vol. I. p. 182. 1793.] Diseases which are not mortal in themselves may often, from their secondary effects, become the cause of death; but if these secondary effects are removed, the disease frequently admits of a cure, or even ceases of itself. Thus diseases, when they attack the vital organs, may, from the nature of the parts alone, prove fatal; and this will be sooner or later, according to the particular functions of the parts diseased. Obstructions to breathing, to the passing of the urine, to the act of swallowing, or the discharge of the faeces, will all terminate in death, if continued for a certain length of time, whatever be the nature of the disease. Difficulty in swallowing, the subject of the present paper, may arise from a variety of causes, since an obstruction in any part of the canal leading from the mouth to the stomach will produce that complaint. I he swallowing our food is a complicated operation, and includes two different actions. The first of these conveys it into the oesophagus; the second carries it along that canal into the stomach : and the parts which perform these two actions are in themselves distinct, so that one may be obstructed or diseased while the other remains perfectly sound. The first action is often impeded, or wholly prevented, by inflamma- tion ; but this is seldom of long continuance, and the cure is probably promoted by the patient’s being obliged to abstain from food. It is also impeded by swellings in the neighbouring glands, but this will com- monly be in a less degree ; and where it threatens suffocation, or a total prevention of deglutition, the patient can often be relieved by an operation. 1 he second action is sometimes obstructed by ulcers in the oesopha- gus, which have a cancerous appearance; sometimes strictures in that canal, which are of a permanent nature; also spasmodic contractions, which are commonly confounded with strictures, but may, I believe, be readily distinguished both from strictures and ulcerations. Ulcers and strictures, from being permanent diseases, in the end de-623 THE MUSCLES OF DEGLUTITION. stroy the patient; but spasmodic contractions admit of being cured. I have known a case of this kind get well in a fortnight from the use of electricity, which had not been at all relieved by mercury, although the mouth was affected by it for a month. There is another cause of difficulty in swallowing, which is the reverse of contraction, viz. paralysis. Whether the muscular coats of the oeso- phagus are ever affected by it I cannot determine; but the muscles of the pharynx have become paralytic, and the patient has died of hunger. As this disease is only rendered dangerous from the want of a sub- stitute for deglutition, it becomes our duty to adopt some artificial mode of conveying food into the stomach, by which the patient may be kept alive while the disease continues, and such medicines may be admini- stered as are thought conducive to the cure. A successful instance of this practice is given in the following Case of well-marked paralysis in the muscles of the pharynx ; tire relation of which is given by the patient. John S 1, about fifty years of age, became hypochondriac and at- tacked by what are called nervous disorders, in consequence of anxiety of mind, brought on by various distresses. In the beginning of his com- plaints he felt something crack within his head, and from that period his sensations became very acute, his passions, sympathies, and aversions exceedingly strong. December 28, 1786, while under the influence of an uncommon de- gree of hypochondriasis, about one o’clock in the morning, he brought up a glutinous substance from his stomach, like the white of an egg, which seemed to relieve him, but did not remove an aversion which he had taken to his relations, his children, and even to life itself, of which he was tired. He afterwards continued affected with low spirits and pains in the head, became restless, and turned his mind to religious subjects; as these affections either increased or diminished, he had frequent and severe fits of crying. About the 21st of February, 1790, he had a violent cold in his head, with a considerable running from the nose; and on the 7th of March, between one and two in the morning, awoke with a sense of choking, and felt soon after a numbness in the whole of his right side, together with a paralysis of the muscles of deglutition, which deprived him of the power of swallowing. By the advice of a physician he was cupped, blistered round the throat, and electrified; he was, in the mean time, supported by nourishing cly- sters. March the 9th, finding no benefit from this plan, he waited upon Mr. Hunter, with a letter from Mr. Cumming, watchmaker, accompanied by Mr. Duncan the surgeon.624 CASE OF PARALYSIS, ETC. Mr. Hunter, considering the support of the patient, and some mode of administering medicine, to be the first object, proposed that a hollow flexible tube should be passed down into the stomach, through which he might receive nourishment and medicines; and mentioned his having an instrument of that kind, made of spiral wire, covered with gut for the purpose of injecting liquids into the stomachs of animals, which might be applied to the present case ; but that Mr. Cumming was better able to assist them in getting a tube that would answer that purpose. He also recommended, when the tube was made, to inject jellies, eggs beat up with a little water, sugar, and milk, or wine, by way of food, and that the medicines might be mixed with it. In compliance with these directions they contrived a tube, and injected into the stomach some of the above-mentioned substances twice a-day : three drams of valerian were mixed with this food, increasing the dose to six drams. Laudanum was given in the dose of forty drops by clyster, and afterwards thirty drops by the mouth; but both doses affected the head, without procuring rest. The valerian was continued till the 26th of March, at which time he had taken four ounces, and had evidently recovered a degree of sensation in his throat. Mr. Hunter was again consulted, and ordered two scruples of flour of mustard, and one dram of tincture of valerian, twice a-day: under this treatment the power of swallowing gradually returned, and on the 29th the use of the tube was no longer necessary. The natural sensation of the throat and right arm had not returned in the month of April. The instrument made use of was a fresh eel-skin, of rather a small size, drawn over a probang, and tied up at the end where it covered the sponge, and tied again close to the sponge where it is fastened to the whalebone, and a small longitudinal slit was made into it just above this upper ligature. To the other end of the eel-skin was fixed a blad- der and wooden pipe, similar to what is used in giving a clyster, only the pipe large enough to let the end of the probang pass into the blad- der w ithout filling up the passage. The probang, thus covered, was introduced into the stomach, and the food and medicines were put into the bladder, and squeezed down through the eel-skin. The instrument did not produce irritation in the fauces or oesopha- gus : in such cases, the parts losing their natural sensibility, allow greater liberties to be taken with them. An eel-skin seems very well adapted for this purpose, being smooth, pliable, and readily passed into the stomach ; but as cases of this kind may occur where eels cannot be procured, a portion of the gut of any small animal, as a cat or lamb, will make a very good substitute.ON LOOSE CARTILAGES IN JOINTS. 625 SOME OBSERVATIONS ON THE LOOSE CARTILAGES FOUND IN JOINTS, AND MOST COMMONLY MET WITH IN THAT OF THE KNEE. By Sir Everard Home, Bart., from Materials furnished by Mr. Hunter. [From the Transactions of a Society for the Improvement of Medical and Chirurgical Knowledge, Vol. I. p. 229. 1793.] Such detached and moveable cartilages as are the subject of the fol- lowing observations, are not peculiar to the joint of the knee; they oc- casionally occur in other joints of the body ; but. as they are most fre- quently met with in the knee, and it is in that joint they produce sym- ptoms which render them the object of a chirurgical operation, I shall consider them more particularly when situated in that cavity. These substances in their structure are analogous to bone, but in their external appearance bear a greater resemblance to cartilage ; they are not, however, always exactly of the same structure, being in’some instances softer than in others. Their external surface is smooth and polished, which, being lubricated by the synovia, allows them to be moved readily from one part of the joint to another, seldom remaining ong at rest, while the limb is in motion; when they happen to be in such situations as to be pressed upon with force by the different parts of the joint, they occasion considerable pain, and materially interfere with its necessary motions. I he circumstance of their being loose, and having no remains of a vi- sible attachment, made it difficult to form conjectures respecting their formation ; and I believe that no satisfactory account of their origin had een given, till Mr. Hunter's observations threw light upon the subject. The circumstances which led him to the investigation of this subject .Malta"' “l “ fcreiB" “■ ‘he *”*"■ ttat In the course of his experiments and observations, instituted with a view to establish a living principle in the blood, Mr. Hunter was natu- ral y induced to attend to the phsenomena which took place when that fluid was extravasated, whether in consequence of accidental violence or other circumstances. The find change which took place he found* 2sON LOOSE CARTILAGES IN JOINTS. 626 be coagulation ; and the coagulum thus formed, if in contact with living paits, did not produce an irritation similar to extraneous matter, nor was it absorbed and taken back into the constitution, but in many in- stances preserved its living principle, and became vascular, receiving branches from the neighbouring blood-vessels for its support; it after- wards underwent changes, rendering it similar to the parts to which it was attached, and which supplied it with nourishment. In attending to cases of this kind, he found that where a coagulura adhered to a surface, which varied its position, adapting it to the motions of some other part, the attachment was necessarily diminished by the friction, rendering it in some instances pendulous, and in others break- ing it off entirely. lo illustrate this by an example, I shall mention an instance which occurred in the examination of a dead body. The ca- vity of the abdomen was opened, to examine the state of its contents, and there appeared lying upon the peritoneum a small portion of red blood, recently coagulated ; this, upon examination, was found connect- ed to the surface upon which it had been deposited, by an attachment- half an inch long, and this neck had been formed before the coagulum had lost its red colour. This steeped in water, so as to become white, appeared like a pendulous tumour. From this case it became easy to explain the mode in which those pendulous bodies are formed, that sometimes occur attached to the in- side of circumscribed cavities; and the principle being established, it be- came equally easy for Mr. Hunter to apply it under other circumstances, since it is evident, from a known law in the animal (Economy, that ex- travasated blood, when rendered an organized part of the body, can as- sume the nature of the parts into which it is effused ; and consequently the same coagulum which in the abdomen formed a soft tumour, when situated on a bone, or in the neighbourhood of bone, forms more com- monly a hard one. The cartilages found in the knee-joint, therefore, appeared to him to originate from a deposit of coagulated blood upon the end of one of the bones, which had acquired the nature of cartilage, and had afterwards been separated. This opinion was further confirmed by the examination of joints which had been violently strained, or other- wise injured, where the patients had died at different periods after the accident. In some of these there were small projecting parts, preter- naturally formed, as hard as cartilage, and so situated as to be readily knocked off by any sudden or violent motion of the joint. This opinion Mr. Hunter has mentioned for many years in his lectures, and his arguments in favour of it are so consonant to the general laws by which the operations of an animal machine are regulated, as scarcely :o require further evidence : but the following case exhibits so manyON LOOSE CARTILAGES IN JOINTS. 627 facts in confirmation of this theory, that it appears to me to afford a full explanation of the process above mentioned, and completely to esta- blish the opinion. A man, sixty-eight years of age, was brought into St. George’s Ho- spital, on the 20th of March, 1791, with a simple fracture of the right thigh-bone, i he fracture was situated about three inches below the great trochanter; it was treated in the usual manner, but no bony union had taken place in the beginning of June, about eleven weeks after the ac- cident, the portions of bone at that time being readily moved on each other. There being nothing in the man’s general health to account for this backwardness in the parts to unite, he was desired to explain what- ever circumstance he was acquainted with respecting himself, likely to throw any light upon it. This inquiry led the patient to mention, that his right os humeri had been broken three years and nine months be- fore, but that the bones had continued disunited, and admitted of motion more freely at that time than immediately after the accident. Rest having proved ineffectual in producing union in the thigh, and it being evident, from the circumstance of the arm, that there was a na- tural backwardness in the constitution to form bony union, he was di- rected to walk upon crutches, and to press as much upon the broken thigh as the state of the parts would admit, without considerable pain, with a view to rouse the parts to action, forcing them by a species of necessity to strengthen the limb. In the course of a fortnight there was an evident firmness in the bone, and in less than two months the patient could walk with the assistance of a stick. As there was something uncommon in the case, he was allowed to remain in the hospital to acquire strength ; in this convalescent state he was seized with a complaint in his bowels, which was very violent, and carried him off. After death the thigh-bone was found firmly repaired by bony union, but the bone of the arm, an account of which is more immediately to the present subject, admitted of motion in every direction at the frac- tured part. The arm was carefully dissected, to examine the state of the frac- tured parts, between which there was no callus, but a large bag filled with a glary fluid, resembling synovia. (See Plate XXIV. fig. 3.) The internal surface of this bag was smooth, like a capsular ligament, and its attachment to the bones was of the same kind : it adhered firmly to the surrounding parts, which were thickened and consolidated, rendering it very strong. The two ends of the bone were adapted to each other, all the irregularities having been absorbed ; and their surfaces were of considerable extent, from the fracture being oblique ; the upper one wasON LOOSE CARTILAGES IN JOINTS. 628 slightly concave, or rather had two depressions, with a middle ridge ; the lower one was smaller and rounded, and was adapted to both con- cavities, which received it in the different motions of the parts. The surfaces of the bones fitted for motion were not completely covered with cartilage, but studded over with it, and the bone was exposed in the interstices; a number of projecting parts, covered with cartilage, grew out from the surfaces, some exceedingly small, others large. From the edges of the bones and the capsular ligaments these excrescences were larger, extremely irregular in their shape, broader in their attach- ments, softer in their texture, and serrated upon the external edge, Thiity or foity small substances, similar to these above mentioned, were found loose in the cavity, varying in size from that of millet-seed to that ol a barley-corn, of a roundish form, and smooth on the surface • the largest of them were more flattened and serrated. Their hardness varied considerably, some of them being as soft as cartilage, others so solid as not to be pierced by a needle. Those bodies must have been ori- ginally attached, and broken off by the friction of the parts on one another. I he preternatural cavity which I have described was in its nature and use similar to the naturally formed joints of the body ; these excrescences and loose bodies were its principal peculiarities, the formation of which appears to have been the result of the violence committed on the parts previously to the formation of the joint, and may be explained in the following manner. W hen the bone was broken the ruptured vessels poured out their contents into the interstices of the lacerated pints, for the purpose of uniting them again ; this, however, not taking place, it was necessary to accommodate the parts to their disunited state; to this end the blood, which had now become useless, was in part absorbed, and the new joint formed. The remains of the coagulated blood, which had not given the stimulus for its own absorption, underwent changes in its nature, as- similating it as much as possible to that of the surfaces to which it was attached, in some parts its texture resembling ligament, in others being more allied to cartilage or bone. When we compare these substances with the loose cartilages found in the knee-joint, which are also produced in consequence of accidental violence, and similar in their appearance, xve are naturally led to con- clude that the latter originate from extravasations of blood, altered in its nature by the parts in which it is deposited, similar to those in the artificial joint above described. In both cases they are evidently new- formed substances, and the readiest mode by which we can account for their production is to refer them thus to the blood, from which fluid every part of the body was originally formed.629 ON LOOSE CARTILAGES IN JOINTS. These loose cartilages, as they have been commonly called, although they may occur in any joint of the body, are found most frequently in the knee ; and in this joint, from the pain and inconveniences they pro- duce, have become the object of an operation in surgery. One or more of them may be formed in the same joint; I have known one instance in which there were three; they are commonly about the size of a horse-bean, often much smaller, and sometimes considembly larger; when very large they do not give so much trouble to the patient as the smaller kind. A soldier in the 56th regiment has one nearly ns big as the patella, which occasions little uneasinesfe, being too large to insinuate itself into the moving parts of the joint. In this disease the removal of the loose bodies is the only mode of re- lief, and it is fortunate for those who are afflicted with it that the knee- joint is the most favourable in the body for such an operation; for the cavity extends a considerable way beyond the moving parts of the joint, and is continued into parts, which, when divided, will more readily unite than the common capsular ligaments, and be less liable to communicate the inflammation that comes upon the wound to the general cavity. As these loose bodies cannot always be found, no time can be fixed for the operation; but the patient, who will soon become familiar with his own complaint, must arrest them when in a favourable situation, and retain them there till the surgeon can be sent for. Before the operation the limb should be extended upon a table in an horizontal position, and secured by means of assistants ; the loose carti- lages are to be pushed into the upper part of the joint above the patella, and then to one side; the inner side is to be preferred, as in that situ- ation only the vastus interims muscle will be divided in the operation. Should there be several of these bodies they must be all secured, or the operation should be postponed till some more favourable opportunity, since the leaving of one will subject the patient to the repetition of an operation not only painful, but attended with some degree of danger. The loose bodies are to be secured in the situation above mentioned, by an assistant, a task not easily performed while they are cut upon, from their being lubricated by the synovia; and if allowed to escape into the general cavity, they may not readily, if at all, be brought back into the same situation. Ihe operation consists in making an incision upon the loose cartilage, which it will be best to do in the direction of the thigh, as the wound will more readily be healed by the first intention. If the skin is drawn to one side previously to making the incision, the wound through the parts underneath will not correspond with that made in the skin, which ciicumstance will favour their union. The incision upon the cartilageON LOOSE CARTILAGES IN JOINTS. 630 must be made with caution, as it will with difficulty he retained in its situation if much force is applied. The assistant is to endeavour to push t e loose body through the opening, which must be made sufficiently arge for that purpose; but as this cannot always be done, the broad end of an eyed probe may be passed under it, so as to lift it out; or a sharp-pointed instrument may be stuck into it, which will fix it to its situation, and bring it more within the management of the surgeon. The cartilages being all extracted, the cut edges of the wound are to be brought together, and, by means of a compress of lint, not only pressed close to one another, but also to the parts underneath, in which situation they are to be retained by sticking-plaster and the uniting bandage. 13 As union by the first intention is of the utmost consequence after this operation to prevent an inflammation upon the joint, the patient should remain in bed with the leg extended till the wound is perfectly united, or at least all chance of inflammation at an end. J d631 SIR E. HOME’S OBSERVATIONS, ETC. OBSERVATIONS ON CERTAIN HORNY EXCRESCENCES OF THE HUMAN BODY. Br Sir Evkrard Home, Bart., from Materials furnished ay Mr. Hunter. Read February 17, 1791. [/Yom the Philosophical Transactions, Vol. LXXXI., p. 95.] XHE history of diseases belongs not properly to the province of the naturalist or philosopher; it is intimately connected with the inquiries of the physician and anatomist; but when disease becomes a cause of the formation of parts similar to others existing in nature, but rendered uncommon by novelty of situation, or produced in animals to which they are not naturally appropriated, it may be considered as having in- stituted a monstrous variety, highly deserving of attention from the naturalist. To describe such varieties is indeed more fully the office of natural history than of medicine; but the investigation of diseases which are found to subvert the ordinary laws of nature respecting the situation or production of parts in an animal body, undoubtedly belongs to the me- dical practitioner. By these considerations I have been induced to lay before the Royal Society the following account of a disease which occurs sometimes in the human body, very remarkable in its effects, but very little understood as to its cause, namely, the production of an excrescence similar to a horn. So curious a phenomenon has naturally attracted the attention of the ignorant as well as the philosopher; and the individuals who have had the misfortune to be subject to this disease have been considered as monsters. Horny excrescences arising from the human head have not only oc- curred in this country, but have been met with in several other parts of Europe ; and the horns themselves have been deposited as valuable curiosities in the first collections in Europe. In giving the history of a disease so rare in its occurrence, and in it# effects so remarkable as almost to exceed belief, it might be thought right to take some pains in bringing proofs to ascertain that such a disease doe# really exist; I consider the doing so as less necessary at present,SIR E. home’s OBSERVATIONS ON 632 there bemg two women now alive, and residing in England, who are 1 CC 6 ffc 7 6 ?°mplfUat’ 1 sha11’ however» in the course of this Paper bring other evidence from the testimony of the most respectable authors who have considered this subject. The two following cases contain a very accurate and distinct history of the progress of the disease through its different stages, and make any further detail of the symptoms entirely unnecessary. Mrs. Lonsdale, a woman fifty-six years old, a native of Horncastle in Lincolnshire, fourteen years ago observed a moveable tumour on the left side of her head, about two inches above the upper arch of the left ear, which gradually increased in the course of four or five years to the size of a pullet’s egg, when it burst, and for a week continued to dis- charge a thick gritty fluid. In the centre of the tumour, after the fluid Was discharged, she perceived a small soft substance, of the size of a pea, and of a reddish colour on the top, which at that time she took for proud flesh It gradually increased in length and thickness, and con- tinued pliable for about three months, when it first began to put on a horny appearance. In two years and three months from its first forma- tion, made desperate by the increased violence of the pain, she attempted to tear it from her head, and with much difficulty, and many efforts, at ength broxe it in the middle, and afterwards tore the root from her head, leaving a considerable depression, which still remains in the part where it grew. Its length altogether is about five inches, and its cir- cumference at the two ends about one inch, but in the middle rather less It is curled like a ram’s horn contorted, and in colour much re- sembling isinglass. rom the lower edge of the depression another honi is now growing, of the same colour with the former, in length about three inches, and* nearly the thickness of a small goose quill; it is less contorted, and lies close upon the head. A third horn, situated about the upper part of the lambdoidal suture is much curved, above an inch in length, and more in circumference at its root: its direction is backwards, with some elevation from the head At this place two or three successive horns have been produced which she has constantly tom away ; but, as fresh ones have speedily followed she leaves the present one unmolested, in hopes of its dropping off. Besides these horny excrescences, there are two tumours, each the size of a large cockle; one upon the upper part, the other about the middle of the left side of the head ; both of them admit of considerable motion, and seem to contain fluids of unequal consistence, the upper one affording an obscure fluctuation, the other a very evident one. The four horns were all preceded by the same kind of incysted tu-HORNY EXCRESCENCES OE THE HUMAN BODY. 633 mouis, and the fluid in all of them was gritty; the openings from which the matter issued were very small, the cysts collapsed and dried up, leaving the substance from which the horn proceeded distinguishable at the bottom. These cysts gave little pain till the horns began to shoot, and then became very distressing, and continued so, with short intervals, till they were removed. This case is drawn up by the surgeon who at- tended the woman for many years, which gave him frequent opportu- nities of seeing the disease in its different stages, and acquiring an accurate history of its symptoms. Mrs. Allen, a middle-aged woman, resident in Leicestershire, had an incysted tumour upon her head, immediately under the scalp, very move- able, and evidently containing a fluid. It gave no pain unless pressed upon, and grew to the size of a small hen’s egg. A few years ago it burst, and discharged a fluid : this diminished in quantity, and in a short time a horny excrescence, similar to those above-mentioned, grew out from the orifice, which has continued to increase in size; and in the month of November 1 / 90, the time I saw it, was about five inches long, and a little more than an inch in circumference at its base. It was a good deal contorted, and the surface very irregular, having a laminated appearance. It moved readily with the scalp, and seemed to give no pain upon motion; but when much handled the surrounding skin became inflamed. This woman came to London, and exhibited herself as a show for money ; and it is highly probable that so rare an occurrence would have sufficiently excited the public attention to have made it answer her expectations in point of emolument, had not the circumstance been made known to her neighbours in the country, who were much dissatisfied with the measure, and by their importunity obliged her husband to take her into the country. That the cases which I have related may not be considered as pecu- liar instances from which no conclusions can be drawn, it may not be amiss to take notice of some of the most remarkable histories of this kind, mentioned by authors, and see how far they agree with those I have stated in the general characters that are sufficiently obvious to strike a common observer; for the vague and indefinite terms in which authors express themselves on this subject show plainly that they did not understand the nature of the disease, and their accounts of it are not very satisfactory to their readers. In the Ephemerides Academia: Nature Curiosorum there are two cases of horns growing from the human body. One of these instances was a German woman*, who had several swellings, or ganglions, upon differ- * Ephem. Acad. Nat. Cur. Dec, iii. An.V. Append, p. 1-1S.634 SIR E. home’s observations on ent parts of her head, from one of which a horn grew. The other wat a nobleman*, who had a small tnmour, about the size of a nut, grow- ing upon the parts covering the two last or lowermost vertebra of the back. It continued for ten years without undergoing any apparent change ; but afterwards enlarged in size, and a horny excrescence grew out from it. In the History of the Royal Society of Medicine* there is an account of a woman, ninety-seven years old, who had several tumours on her head, which had been fourteen years in growing to the state they were in at that time; she had also a horn which had originated from a simi- lar tumour. The horn was very moveable, being attached to the scalp, without any adhesion to the skull. It was sawn off, but grew again ; and, although the operation was repeated several times, the horn always returned. Bartholine, in his Epistles J, takes notice of a woman who had a tu- mour under the scalp, covering the temporal muscle. This gradually enlarged, and a horn grew from it, which had become twelve inches long in the year 1646, the time he saw it. He gives us a representa- tion of it, which bears a very accurate resemblance to that which I have mentioned to have seen in November 1790. No tumour or swelling is expressed in the figure; but the horn is coming directly out from the surface of the skin. In the Natural History of Cheshire §, a woman is mentioned to have lived in the year 1668, who had a tumour or wen upon her head for thirty-two years, which afterwards enlarged, and two horns grew out of it: she was then seventy-two years old. There is a horny excrescence in the British Museum, which is eleven inches long, and two inches and a half in circumference at the base, or thickest part. The following account of this horn I have been favoured with by Dr. Gray, taken from the records of the Museum. A woman, named French, who lived near Tenterden, had a tumour or wen upon her head, which increased to the size of a walnut; and in the forty- eighth year of her. age this horn began to grow, and in four years arrived at its present size||. There are many similar histories of these horny excrescences in the authors I have quoted, and in several others; but those mentioned above • Ephero. Acad. Nat. Cur., Dec. i. An. i. Obscrvat. 30. + Ilistoire de la Soci£t6 Royale dc Medecine, 1776, p. 316. 1 Epistol. Thom. Barthol. jj Lee’s Natural History of Lancashire and Cheshire. || The following extract is taken from the Minutes of the Royal Society, February 14, 1704-5:— “ A letter was read from Dr. Chariere, at Barnstaple, concerning a horn, sevenHORNY EXCRESCENCES OF THE HUMAN BODY. 635 are the most accurate and particular with respect to their growth; and in all of them we find the origin was from a tumour, as in the two cases I have related; and, although the nature of the tumour is not particu- larly mentioned, there can be no doubt of its being of the incysted kind, since in its progress it exactly resembled them, remaining stationary for a long time, and then coming forwards to the skin; and the horn be- ing much smaller than the tumour previously to the formation of the horn is a proof that the tumour must have burst and discharged its contents. From the foregoing account it must appear evident that these homy excrescences are not to be ranked among the appearances called lusvs nature; nor are they altogether the product of disease, although un- doubtedly the consequence of a local disease having previously existed. They are, more properly speaking, the result of certain operations in the part for its own restoration; but the actions of the animal (Eco- nomy being unable to bring them back to their original state, this spe- cies of excrescence is formed as a substitute for the natural cuticular covering. lo explain the manner in which these horns are formed it will be necessary to consider the nature of incysted tumours a little more fully ; and in doing so we shall find that this particular species does not differ in its principle, nor materially in its effects, from many others which are not uncommonly met with in the human body, as well as in those of many other animals, which, as they are more frequent in their oc- currence, are also much better understood. Incysted tumours differ exceedingly among themselves, both in the nature of their contents, and in their progress towards the external sur- face of the body. Many of them have no reference to our present pur- pose ; it is only the more indolent kind to which I mean now to advert: some of these, when examined, are not found to contain a fluid, but a small quantity of thick, curd-like matter, mixed with cuticle broken down into small parts; and upon exposing the internal surface of the cyst, it is found to have a uniform cuticular covering adhering to it, si- milar to that of the cutis on the surface of the body, from which it only differs in being thinner, and more delicate, bearing a greater resem- blance to that which covers the lips. Others of this kind, instead of having cuticle for their contents, are filled with hair mixed with a curdled inches long, cut off the second vertebra of the neck of a woman in that neighbour- “ ®r; GreS°r>' said that one of seven ir-ches long, and of a dark brown colour wa . cut off from a woman’s temple at Edinburgh. " Dr. Norris said that two horns had been cut off from a woman’s head in Cheshire.’1SIR E. home’s OBSERVATIONS ON 636 substance, or hair without any admixture whatever, and have a similar kind of hair growing upon their internal surface, which is likewise co- vered with a cuticle. These cuticular incysted tumors were, I believe, first accurately examined by Mr. Hunter, to whom we are likewise in- debted for an explanation of the mode in which the parts acquire this particular structure. Mr. Hunter considers the internal surface of the cyst to be so cir- cumstanced respecting the body, as to lose the stimulus of being an internal part, and receive the same impression from its contents, eithc-r from their nature, or the length of application, as the surface of the skin does from its external situation. It therefore takes on actions suited to such stimuli, undergoes a change in its structure, and acquires a dispo- sition similar to the cutis, and is consequently possessed of the power of pi educing cuticle and hair. What the mode of action is, by which this change is brought about, is not easily determined ; but from the in- dolence of these complaints, it most probably requires a considerable length of time to produce it. That the lining of the cyst really does possess powers similar to cutis, is proved by the following circumstances: that it has a power of forming a succession of cuticles like the common skin; and what is thrown off in this way is found in the cavity of the cyst. It has a similar power respecting hair, and sometimes the cavity is filled with it, so great a quantity has been shed by the internal sur- face. Besides these circumstances, the hair found in the cyst corre- sponds in appearance with that which grows upon the liody of the ani- mal ; and when incysted tumours of this kind form in sheep, they con- tain wool. What is still more curious, when such cysts are laid open, the internal surface undergoes no change from exposure, the cut edges cicatrize, and the bottom of the bag remains ever after an external sur- face. Different specimens, illustrative of the above-mentioned circum- stances, arc preserved in Mr. Hunter’s collection of diseases. The cysts that produce homy excrescences (which are only another modification of cuticle) are very improperly considered as giving rise to horns; for if we examine the mode in which this substance grows, we shall find it the same with the human nails, coming directly out from the surface of the cutis. It dillers from the nails in not being set upon the skin by a thin edge, but by a surface of some breadth, with a hollow in the middle exactly in the same manner as the horn of the rhinoceros*; at least this is evidently the case in the specimen preserved in the Bri- * The horn of the rhinoceros is a cuticular appendage to the skin, similar to nails and other cuticular excrescences, being in no respect allied to horns but in the external appearance.HORNY EXCRESCENCES OF THE HUMAN BODY. G37 tish Museum, and in one which grew out from the tip of a sheep’s ear ; they are also solid, or nearly so, in their substance. This mode of growth is very different from that of horns, which are all formed upon a core, either of bone or soft parts, by which means they have a cavity in them ; a structure peculiar to this kind of cuti- cular substance. Incysted tumours in different animals would appear, from these obser- vations, to be confined in their production to the cuticular substance, proper to the animal in which they take place; for, although cuticle, hair, nail, hoof, and horn, arc equally productions of animal substance, only differing in trivial circumstances from each other, we do not find in the human subject any instance of an incysted tumour containing a substance different frOm the cuticle, hair, and nails of the human body ; to which last the horny excrescences, the subject of the present Paper’ are certainly very closely allied, both in growth, structure and external appearance; and when ol some length, they are found to be so brittle as to break in two, upon being roughly handled, which could not hap- pen either to hoof or horn. In the sheep they produce wool instead of hair; and in one instance in that animal, where they gave rise to horny excrescence, it was less compact in its texture, and less brittle than similar appearances in the human subject; upon being divided longitudinally, the cut surface had more the appearance of hoof, and was more varied in its colour than nail. Incysted tumours being capable of producing horns, upon the principle we have laid down, is contrary to the usual operations of nature ; for horns are not a production from the cutis,and, although not always form- ed upon a bony core, but frequently upon a soft pulp, that substance differs from common cutis in its appearance, and extends a considerable way into the horn: it is probable, that this pulp requires a particular process for its formation*. I shall conclude this paper by observing, that the cases of horns as they are commonly termed, upon the human head, are no more than cu- ticular productions arising from a cyst, which in its nature is a variety of those tumours described by Mr. Hunter under the general name of cuticular incysted tumours f. A.8heeP'.Rb;Ut f0Ur years 0,d’ llad a large horn, three feet long, growing upon ts flank. It had no connection with bone, and appeared to be only attached to the ex- ternal skin. It dropped off in consequence of its weieht Invim i , rrzt" "Bi * “,ou’ fiiiioe"• '»'•* “Hid, ,i i.„„ t The principle upon which the production of these excrescences depends brin„ explained, the modes of preventing their formation, and removing then, when funned"SIR E. home’s OBSERVATIONS, ETC. 633 These incysted tumours, when considered as varieties of the same dis- ease, form a very complete and beautiful series of the different modes by which the powers of the animal ceconomy produce a substitute for the common cuticle upon parts which have been so much affected by disease as to be unable to restore themselves to a natural state. will be readily understood, the destruction of the cyst being all that is required for that purpose. This may be done before the tumour opens externally, or even after the ex- crescence has begun to shoot out, and will be better effected by dissection than escha- rotics, since the success of the operation depends upon the whole of the bag being re- moved. ° 6 END OF THE THIRD VOLUME. Printed by Richard and John E. Taylor, Rad Lion Court. Fleet Street,INDEX TO THE FIRST THREE VOLUMES. .4III)OMEN, penetrating wounds of, iii. 559. ■ ft ti i866norCeaSCpelated by’- *" which the vena P01t* did not terminate in iiiTo3rat:Lir0Tf kw » Tv hi. o26. The process of cure described i 414 r, , 8' Methods of opening, until they are opened, iii. 423. Constitutio ,a ‘effbcts i tT ^ 'VZ near the anus, iii. 401. — -! tnicat, i. 4370- Hi fo3 So’netimcs.miSta,kc" f0r tumours- *• 570- ■ aged, i. 401. Are sometimes absorbed, iiTTlT ^ °Ught t0 be eneou' T7T’ " ^ antn,m m(Ui!larei S*m*t0™ “»d causes of, ii. 77. Treatment of, =: l° be treatefd>iL 7B- «» M.) 520. The reason of their being ^ flow, S. 422 **" 7 °Pening’ 1 554’ 600 : iiL —i milk, iii. 485. scrofulous, iii. 419. - „ 7 * A s' • near </ie urethra; treatment of, ii “>154 return on contracting a fresh gonorrhoea, ii!" 271 treatment, a. 458. rlhsorhetits, uses of discovered, i. 18, 237 ; ii. 354 Inflammation of, iii. 319, note Inflam nf on \ , fV "• 237459, 481. lution of, ii. 370. ' °‘ 1 e back of tlle penis, ii. 358. Keso- Absorption, experiments on, i. 18. Organs of i 100 1? respecting, i. 250. Interstitial, i. 253, 421 • iii 409 nfT f '' 0,d "otio" gressive, i. 256. 421 • iii 47 i ti , '• ni\ . ™ whole parts, i. 254. but is not mechanical, i.48l/ TabTe 0^1° 258 • hf 4fi0 CfCtcd ll,.,known» 1 257; lor mortification, i. 255, 420. Progressive absorntion ** S0!lnetImes a substitute healthy processes, ib. Remote causes of, i. 420 iii °f d,seased Pa'to s">iib.r to the 421. General views of, iii. 459. Modes nf i’, . Imn,ediate causes of, i. m°re prone ‘otllis action ‘han the internal, iii dfl^Of matttfj 4^* par‘* . °fforeign substances, rapidity of iii •is matter, i. 113 ; m. 41,, 512. in a gonorrhoea, ii. 207; of venereal matter U 'Jn • °,f matter> llow prevented Accents, the different kinds of,im?m *40 Z*5 ’ 356’ Acul carbonic, in venous blood, iii. 28 note IVh.ti ,1 •lie coagulation of the blood and of its black coloi^H ,hLevo1"tl0n °f 'S the cause of Vnu*ict does not prevent the contraction of the’clot iii’ TZ , uric, secreted in superabundance in -'out i 353 ’ 00 C‘ Action, the meaning of this term, ii. 396 • iii 3 ’ note‘ 214> 224. 345, 603. The power of, dependent on?'0"8*"T a."d exhau<ts Ports life, although not necessary to it, i 224 ii lefV f U' 2?2’ 24L SuP' proportion to the powers of a part, i. 312, 479’ 603 iii’ 8 A I '* Z**3 be 1,1 the difference between, ii. 396. The former more en«’;i ’ 8' a ^ctlon and disposition, — -/th, W, cause .( iii. <s“ nZ‘ '“• VOL. Ill, n 2 T In the perinaeum, are very apt to Venereal, when obstinate, their Proposed work on, by Hunter,640 INDEX. Actions, of two kinds, i. 243, 3IS. Those which are vital are uninterrupted, i. 244. The involuntary arise from the brain, i. 263. Sometimes cease during sleep, i. 266. Critical, what meant by, i. 306. Preternatural, i. 308. Are the consequence of un- natural impressions, i. 299. Sometimes wear themselves out, i. 300. The weak destroyed by the strong, i. 310, 388. Scrofulous, remarkable for their tardiness, i. 593. Diseased, incompatible with each other, ii. 132; iii. 3. Adair, Mr. i. 20, 25. Adams, Dr. i. xxi. 28. Addison, Dr. iii. 427. Adhesion, may take place without inflammation or pain, iii. 299, 332. (See Union by the First Intention and Adhesive Inflammation.) Adults, sympathies of, more determinate than in young children, i. 324. Adult Teeth, progress of their formation, ii. 35. The first grinder decaying at an early age, ought to be removed, ii. 92. Age, its effects on disease, i. 243, 484; and particularly as it respects cancer, i. 622. Ague, iii. 432. Illustrates the doctrine of susceptibilities, i. 306. Ill-formed, i. 307. Air ; in the veins, the effects of, i. 350; iii. 28, note. Whether it ought to be regarded as an irritant, exciting to suppuration, i. 410; iii. 405. Coming in contact with the nerve of a tooth, the cause of the pain in, ii. 53. Means for excluding it, ii. 54. Effect of on the coagulation of the blood, iii. 27, note. Albumen, in the serum, properties of, iii. 45, note. Circumstances which increase or diminish its amount, ib. Conversion of, into fibrin or oleaginous matter, iii. 37, note. Coagulation of, iii. 49, note. Test of, ib. Al/lini, Professor, i. 146. Alison, Dr., his experiments on the tonicity of inflamed arteries, referred to, iii. 32S, note. Alveolar Process, in the upper jaw, described, ii. 1. In the lower jaw, ii. 2. Of the upper and lower jaw compared, ib. The sockets of the teeth, how formed, ii. 3. In both jaws, are rather to be considered as belonging to the teeth than as parts of the jaw, ib. Absorption of, always keeps pace with the gum, ii. 5, note. The formation of, traced from early infancy to adult age, ii. 32. Decay of, by wasting, ii. 79. A filling up of the socket and protrusion of the tooth, ib. The cause of these two dis- orders inquired into, ii. 80. Effects of the scurvy on, ib. Decay of, by what is called the scurvy of the gums, ii. 82. Amputation; often immediately removes hectic fever, i. 324; iii. 513. The question of, in severe accidents and compound fractures, i. 510 ; iii. 281, note. In gun-shot wounds, iii. 572, 575, note. Amusements, Mr. Hunter’s, i. 10, 32, 55. Analogy; often an unsafe mode of argument on physiological subjects, ii. 24, note ; and also on disease, ii. 62, note. Analyses of the blood and serum, iii. 18, note. Anasarca, the punctures made in, do not always heal, iii. 280. Anastomoses ; uses of, iii. 207. Anatomy; lectures on, i. 4. State of, before the time of Hunter, i. 5. Pursuit of and disputes in, i. 17. Anatomy Comparative; Hunter enters on the study of, i. 20. Recommends, i. 29. MSS. volume of, i. 152. Anchylosis; the different kinds of, i. 521. Andral; on the power of effused blood to become vascular, iii. 269 ; which he compares to the development of the embryonic germ, iii. 457. Angina Pectoris, i. 443, 444; iii. 79. Anecdotes ; of Cheselden, i. 9. Of Mr. Christie, i. 138. Of Dr. William Hunter, i. 4. Of Dr. Johnson’s friend, i. 5. Of Linnaeus, ib. Of Pitt, i. 135, 137. Of Pott, i. 5. of John Hunter, i. 28, 57. Of J. H. at home, i. 41. Of J. H. in the lecture room, i. 47, 49. Of J. II. and Bvrne, i. 166 Of J. II. and Sir A. Carlisle, i. 14, 115. Of J. H. and Dr. Clarke, i. 75. Of J. H. and Mr. Cline, i. 53. Of J. II. and Mr. Jesse Foot, i. 22. Of J. H. and Dr. Garthshore, i. 28, 114. Of J. H. and Mr. Lynn, i. 116. Of J. H. and Mr. G. Nicol, i. 29. Of J. H. and Sir Joshua Reynolds, i. 108, 121. Of J. H. and Taylor, i. 87. Of J. H. and Mr. Thomas, i. 114. Of J. H. and a would-be Lecturer, i. 56. Anel; his claims to Hunter’s operation for aneurism examined, i. 98. Aneurism ; Hunter’s operation for, i. 96, 117, 543. Paper on, iii. 594. Anel s claims to, examined, i. 98. True and spurious aneurisms, i. 543. Causes of, i, 544. Na-INDEX. 641 tural cure of, i. 540. Treatment of, ib. Necessity for operating early, i. 548. Ar- Cwm ofniW55Cl thTVPerat,0n f°rmay bC Practised> *• 549’ Operation, i. 550, 551. f 51' c Pr°gr«s of, towards the surface, described, iii. 4 72. Compa- rative frequency of aneurism in the different vessels, iii. 595. thC Simp'e condition °f. >• 247. Possess little power of resisting changes of temperature, i. 288. Compared in this respect to vegetables T 320 Some are not susceptible of venereal irritation, ii. 151. egetao.es, .. ,!-J. Animal (Economy, Hunter’s work on, i. 103 Heat. (See Heat.) “ P“' ’Ux“"ne ,,nd" «"*' f- Animalization, i. 215, note, 230. Ankle, compound fractures of, i. 510. Anson's Voyage, referred to, iii. 487. Anthrax, i. 607. alld particularly the Antimonium tartarn., in Inflammation, iii. Antrum maxillare ; abscess of, ii. 77. Method of puncturing, ii. 78 note Aortl 8 °r’ '■ 5'9', D'ffuSe suPP,,ration "ear the verge of, iii.’dOl *-,i,e “™*1 w«.««. Applications, external-, in inflammation, i. 406, 480, 565. In scrofula i 600 !‘°[\enVJ an‘ hemiplegia-, proceed from the same cause, iii. 261. The mode of treat ment generally adopted not judicious, ib. i ne moue ot treat- Ar,static ; believed that the blood was alive, iii. 105, note nSirr lk?\™,a*7n'7 r o,; '• 2f“,s- % Ioj. Not equally muscular in everv tvirf i»i inn . ... /. ’ * greater than in man i Vts Of n. ^ a- j.1'', 1C°' Contractility of in animals is iii 160 r„, • i ' ,8‘ °f,11,6 effect of these two properties on the circulation in. fb9. Considered as a sort of supplemental heart iii 171 nr . ■™.“- y,ive, or. iii. 2o2. *iL£L2iTmm »i. Ao. ■ S’™r s? *• ***-«•2 *«*» < arteries arc wounded, i. 540 ; iii 240 ’ pr°per treatment whe" large Arteritis, i. 453; iii. 531. Artery Carotid; peculiar arrangement of, in some animals, iii. 3>1 , . Crtrrat; case of wound of, iii. 89. Aneurism of iii 8S Artenalization of the blood, iii. 92, note. ’ * Articulation ; of the lower jaw, described, ii. 6. Of the teeth ii. 28 -‘TZf’ 'he temperature of, i. !n. TheS.f, l9M, „0,lnd<j t"rm"i0”' 'U' M3' ”0 t ll'« respecting the Hunterian Museum, i. 139, 141. ’ ’ 13 H etter t0 Slr J- Banks Auricles, to be considered only as reservoirs’of the blood, iii. 177, 178, note. II. PaS'ifn’ Dr'\°?- tllL'!iquor sanSuinis> ill- 331, note. •signs K il bride restate]' F. sV''1 ExcaUor’to Hunu^'TTr ' 7^"^ °f’ " 53' Rc* Hunterian Oration, i. 146. ntt ’ 1,13 And Home, establish the , Joanna, i. 3. , skit, of the strange course which they sometimes take, iii. 556. *2 t 2INDEX. 642 Balsams, terebinthinate ; in mortification, i. 004 ; ii. 222 ; iii. 8. Bandages, remarks on, iii. 257. Banks, Sir J.; Letters of, to Hunter, i. 83, 84. Letters of Lord Auckland to, i. 139. Letters from, to Lord A., i. 141. How affected with cold, i. 286. Barber Surgeons, i. 5. Bathing, Cold, i. 48. In the sea, in scrofula, i. 598, 599 ; ii. 83, note. Bark-, its use in scrofula, i. 598. In mortification, i. 604; ii. 137; iii. 8, 377. In gonorrhoea and gleet, ii. 205, 222. In mortification arising from the effusion of urine, ii. 268. In phimosis, ii. 339. In erysipelas, ii. 370. In inflammation, iii. 278, 284. In gunshot wounds, iii. 577. Barruel; on the halitus of the blood, iii. 54, note. Bartholomew's Hospital; Hunter a pupil at, i. 12. Bath ; Hunter visits, i. 64, 95. Bats; torpid, whether the blood in, loses its fluidity, iii. 33, note. Batjford, Mr., i. 34. Bees; Mr. Hunter’s paper on, i. 121. Require a high temperature, i. 285, note. The larva; of, said to survive boiling, i. 294, note. Hunter’s fondness for, i. 337. Bell, Mr.; engaged by Mr. Hunter, i. 51. His drawings, i. 177. , Mr. B., ii. 148, note. Belladonna, extract of; does not prevent the contraction of the clot, iii. 43, note. Bellotcs; Hunter’s double, for artificial respiration, iii. 76. Belleisle, siege of, i. 20. Berzelius, his analysis of the blood, iii. 18, note. Bibliography; of the blood, iii. 138. Of the vascular system, iii. 233. Ofinflamma- tion, iii. 534. Of gunshot wounds, iii. 578. Bicuspides; particular description of that class of teeth, ii. 24. Their use, ii. 25. Bichat, X.; quoted, i. 240, 242. On the effects of black blood on the system, iii. 78, 87, note. His definition of life, iii. 126. Bile; in the blood, i. 353. Depositions of, in various parts, ib. Prevents the coagu- lation of the blood, iii. 35. Sometimes secreted from arterial blood, iii. 86, note. Birds; the temperature of, i. 288. Of passage, i. 294. Birthday; Hunter’s, i. 1. Black, Dr.; his discoveries on latent heat, i. 279. Bladder; wounds of, i. 448. Affected in gonorrhoea, ii. 178, 188,205. Treatment of, ii. 211, 225. Its strength increased in stricture, ii. 241. Diseases of, from ob- structions to the urine, ii. 284. Increased irritability of, ib. And urethra, contract and relax alternately, ib. Inconveniences which arise when these actions do not take place regularly, ii. 285. Their treatment, ii. 286. Paralysis of, from obstruc- tion to the passage of urine, ii. 287. Cure of paralysis of, when it arises from ob- struction, owing to pressure or spasm, ii. 289. Puncture of, above the pubes, ii. 290. By the rectum, ii. 292. In the perinseum, ii. 296. Of the increased strength of, ii. 299. Irritability of, independent of obstructions to the urine, ii. 300. The cure of simple irritability of, ib. Reason why its contraction in inflammation is so painful, iii. 332. Blane, Sir G., i. 295. Bleeding; effects of, i. 537. Its use in gonorrhcea, ii. 205. In chordee, ii. 210. (See yenesection.) Blisters; applied to the perinseum, their use in removing disagreeable sensations which remain after the cure of a gonorrhoea, ii. 218. In strangury, ib. In gleet, ii. 223. In spasmodic affections of the urethra, ii. 275. In paralysis of the urethra, ii. 276. In paralysis of the bladder, ii. 289. In spasmodic affections of the urethra, accompanied by a paralysis of the bladder, ii. 290. In simple irritability of the bladder, ii. 195. In paralysis of the acceleratores urinte, ii. 301. In nodes, ii. 447. Blizard, Mr. Thomas, i. 255, note. , Sir William, and Hunter, i. 54. Blood; general principles of, iii. 10. Erroneous views respecting, i. 229. Life of, when communicated, i. 231. Proofs of its vitality, i. 231; iii. 103. I he use ot extraneous matters in, i. 232. Harmonizes with the solids, i. 233, note, 381 ; iii. 115. Coagulation of, i. 233; iii. 41, note. Buffy and cupped, i. 233, 383; iii. 38, note. Inflammation of, i. 234. Sensible changes in, i. 235. foreign substances in, i. 347. Vitiations of, i. 352, note. Of the power of coagulated blood to become vascular, i. 236, 238, 368, 439 ; iii. 34, 115, 119,243,268, 350. Milky i. 353,INDEX. 643 »iote; m. 55, note. Death of, i. 381, 382. Disease throws great light on its natural history, iii. 12, 15. Nearly uniform in its composition, in different animals, iii. 13. I he colour of, w. 16, 58, note. Whether its constitution is always globular, iii. 16 Its various parts, and the uses which they fulfil in the animal oeconomy, iii. 17. Analysis of, m. 18. Specific gravity of, iii. 22, note. Standard heat of, iii. 338. fluidity of, depends on the vitality of the vessels, iii. 29, note, 130. Does not always coagulate on extravasation, iii. 33. Has the power of action within itself, iii. 34 1 15, 243, 350. Cases in which it does not coagulate after death, iii. 34, 42, 114* ,, • Serum of, iii. 39. Observations to prove that the albuminous principles’of the’ blood are distinct in their nature, iii. 37, note. Of the red globules, iii. 57. Differ- ence between arterial and venous, iii. 73, note; the respective colours of which are sometimes reversed, ill. 91. Effects of respiration on, iii. 74, 92, note. Venous blood not poisonous, ill. Si.note; nor essential to the secretion of bile, iii. 86, note Cause of the change of colour of the two bloods, iii. 97. The blood the same in ali the arteries, ill. 101, 102 ; but different in the different veins, iii. 73, 102. Effects of various agents on, iii. 121. Whether the quantity of, or the velocity of its circu- lation is increased in inflammation, iii. 325, note. State of, in inflammation, iii. 354 Of a person having the lues venerea, will not communicate the disease to a sound „,pe”°" by inoculation, ii. 385. (See Coagulation, Serum, Globules, Buff.) Bloodletting. (See Bleeding, Venesection.) * local, iii. 376. Bloodvessels, preparations of, i. 169. Blotches venereal, described, ii. 407. (See Eruptions ) "'ZZZ lrVXm:u7 '"* “f •'» “>*• “■! or B lumen bach, Professor, i. 284, 353, notes. Blundell, Dr., iii. 14, note. Body-, comparative powers of different parts of, ii. 134; which are greater the nearer they are to the heart, ib. The structure of different parts produces a difference in No onWerS °/ rC!h0nn lbi ’ anr '!* their susceptibility of particular diseases, ii. 105. No one part of the body applied by Nature to two purposes with advantage and instances of this in different animals, ii. 228. ® ’ ——influence on by the mind. (See Imagination.) odtes, foreign ; of the extraction of, in gunshot wounds, iii. 550. Their approach fo the surface accounted for, iii. 467, 479, notes. approach to Boerhaave, on the cause of inflammation, iii. 304. Boils, i. 608. BT1i8HU£^erd1WOrk^,!- I5K ,Theearth °f. « partof the livingbody, 1.218. 1 heir mode of growth illustrated, . 253. Their diseases i 498 y maticn of, i. 505 5.4; iii. 277,278,530. 255, note. Exfoliation of, i. 514, 529. Absorption of i 255 note ■" SL VrSr &r‘l%514M ,??0n 4 ** 5 '•' Of fhe'e^raction oSf dead f > 1 • 3 ' Moll,t,es ossium, i. 532. Exostosis, i. 533- iii 33 Tumours of, i. o,0. Venereal affections of, ii. 421, note. The union of mav be destroyed by the poison of mercury, ii. 432, note. By scurvy iii 487 y liordeu, calls the blood la chair coulante, i. 229. ^ ' Boughton, Sir T.; trial on the death of, i. 81. Hunter’s evidence on the trial i 194 Bougainville s Voyage, a passage from, ii. 144 -191. Tlojies; their use in gonorrhoea, ii. 198, 213. In gleet, ii. 223, 224. Different kinds 235 97233>|52' Their use in stricture, n. 238. Directions for passing them ii -3o, 275. Frequently stop m the lacunae of the urethra, ii. 237, note Sometimes form a new passage on the side of the urethra, ii. 239, 253. Sometimes slip into the bladder, and occasion the patient to be cut for the stone, ii. 240. Mode elf ex- acting them when a part remains still in the urethra, ii. 241. Description and use the armed-bougie, n. 246, note. Affect many parts by sympathy, ii. 251 Hollow tnZm ' How introduced, where the prostattf gland is euharged[ Bowerlank, Mr. on the globules in the blood of insects, iii. 58, note. ram .preparations>ot, i. 170. Of the active and passive states of i. 259 Too much ascribed to it, .. 260. Whether formed before or after the nerves i 264 nZ juries ol ,. 437, 492, note. Inflammation of, i. 486, 489 note ; hi. 531 Hv.iatVu of, i. 574 ; identifiable with the materia vitro diffusa, iii. 115. Is diffLd throScancer and scrofula of the testicle, i. 618 ; and of the breast, i. 598, 618. Symptoms G44 INDEX. the whole body in many of the inferior animals, iii. 116 note. Peculiarity ofitscir- cHhtion, designed to protect it against pressure from sudden congestion, iii. 220, note* Braude, Mr., i. 28. Breast, scrofulous, i. 594, 597. (See Cancer.) Breath, rendered foul by rotten teeth, ii. 65. (See Scurvu ) Brien, O', i. 106. J ’ Brodie, Sir B., on the effects of cold, i. 287, note. On abscesses in bones, i. 514. On injuries of the head, i. 491. On hydrocele, i. 461. Bromfield, Mr.; i. 25. His strictures on Mr. Hunter’s operation for aneurism, i. 547. .f0’ theory of its formation, ii. 354. Mistakes of authors relative to this subject, ii. 355. Situation and description of, ii. 357. May be formed in the lymphatics or lymphatic glands, n. 358. How distinguished from other swellings, ii. 359. Of the time between the application of the venereal matter and the formation of, ii. 360. In the tight groin, when occasioned by chancres, generally arises from sores situated on the right side of the penis, ii. 361. In women, its division, ii. 362. Of the in- flammation of, ii. 363. Marks which distinguish it from other swellings of the glands, n. 364. General reflections on its cure, ii. 368. Of the resolution of, ib. Is attended with different dispositions, which must be treated accordingly, ii. 370. Resolution of; the use of vomits in, ib. In the groin; the resolution of, ii. 371. In women; of the resolution of, ii. 3/2. In different parts of the body; treatment of, ib. Reso- lution of; the quantity of mercury necessary for, ib. Is more likely to suppurate if there is one in each groin than when single, ii. 373. Sometimes becomes scirrhous ; its treatment, ib.. Its treatment when it suppurates, ii. 374. The matter of is some- limes “bs°rbed, iii. 512. Mercury is to be given during the suppuration of, ii. 374. Method ol opening, ib. Consequences of, ii. 375. Degenerate sometimes into a ?.0r!!~ the scr°fulous kind, ii. 375, 377. In some they spread to an amazing extent, u. 3/9. Treatment of when it becomes stationary, ib. Buchanan, Mr.; marries Agnes Hunter, i. 3. Falls in business, ib. His death, i. 13. Buff of blood; consists of fibrin modified by disease, iii. 40, note. Of the relative pro- portions of solid and fluid parts in, in henlth and disease, ib. No guide for the re- petition of venesection, ib. The quantity of, much influenced by the shape of the vessel and the quickness of its solidification, iii. 39, note. The cause of, iii. 38, note. In inflammation, iii. 354, 357. Bugs; the bite of, poisonous, i. 615. Buller, Judge; his strictures on Hunter’s evidence, i. 54. Bunion, i. 560. Burke, Mr., his opinion of what is necessary to form a great man, i. 54. Burns ; mode of treating, iii. 265. Burning the nerve of a tooth ; method of performing, ii. 66. Reprobated, ii. 68, note. Of the ear, sometimes successful in the tooth-ache, ii. 66. Burrows, I)r., on the power of coagulated blood to vascularize itself, iii. 269, note. Burste, i. 449. Butler, Bishop, his treatise on natural and revealed religion the fruit of twenty years’ reflection, i. 276. Byrne, C., i. 106. C'. Cachexia; the worst forms of, induced by mercury, ii. 432, note. Ctesarian operation, i. 448. Calculi; i. 185. How formed, ii. 42, 54. Calculous matter; frequently attaches itself to the ends of bougies when left in the bladder, ii. 251. Frequently fills up the cavity of the catheter when kept a long time in the bladder, ii. 298. Callus; the nature of, i. 501, note, 502. Calomel, its use in inflammation of the testicle, ii. 212, note. Campbell, Lady, i. 41. Camphor, its use in ehordee, ii. 210. Cancer; glands contaminated by, sometimes remain dormant for a long time, i. 309 ; and sometimes inflame without being contaminated, i. 329, 622. Diagnosis between645 INDEX. and external appearances of, i. 618, 623. Progress of, i. 618, 624. Is strictly a local disease, i. 619. Predisposing causes of, i. 623. Parts most susceptible of, ib. Whether hereditary, ib. Morbid appearances of, i. 624. Treatment of, i. 625. By caustics, i. 626. By extirpation, ib. Capacity tor heat of the different bloods, employed to explain the functions of calori- fication, i. 281. (api/laries; proofs of their muscularity, iii. 158. The peculiarity of their distribution constitutes them a distinct system, iii. 197, note. State of in inflammation, iii. 325, note. Carbonic acid gas. (See Acid.) Carbuncle, i. 602, 607; iii. 317. Treatment of, i. 609. Caries, i. 499, 528. The excision of, stops the decay of teeth, ii. 65. Carlisle, Sir A.; his introduction to Hunter, i. 115. llis anatomical skill, i. 36. Anecdotes of, i. 14, 115. Carswell, Dr., on the digestion of the stomach, i. 43. Cartilage; not reproduced, i. 504, note; iii. 530. Inflammation of, iii. 530. Exfolia- tion of, i- 534. Absorption of, i. 535. Moveable, in the articulation of the jaws, de- scribed, ii. 5. Principal use of, ii. 6. Cartilages, loose; how formed, i. 520; iii. 625. Caruncles, in the urethra, ii. 277. Their cure, ib. Case of inflammation and abscess of the abdomen, i. 422. Of aneurism of the aorta, ib. Of tumour of the dura mater, i. 423. Of ununited fracture of the thigh, i. 426. Of papular eruption, allowed to get well by scabbing, i. 429. Of Ca;sarian opera- tion, i. 448. Of chancre and eruptions, i. 478. Of sloughing from the application of a blister, i. 482. Of hamiatemesis, i. 483. Of fracture of the skull, which was trepanned two years after the accident, i. 488. Of hernia cerebri, i. 495. Of frac- tured patella, in which the extensor muscles were made to resume their action by a paiticular contrivance, i. 512. Of necrosis, i. 530. Of amputation at the shoulder joint, in which the cartilage was found unadherent two years afterwards, i. 535. Of secondary haimorrhage after umputation, i. 543. Of secondary haemorrhage after the operation for popliteal aneurism, i. 551. Of encysted tumour, in which the lining membrane afterwards formed a part of the external integument, i. 576. Of diseased joint, cured by mezereon, i. 599. Of carbuncle, i. 609. Of a tooth which was successfully transplanted, ii. 80, 101, 105. Of the enamel being worn away from the teeth in a peculiar manner, so as to give to them a peculiar truncated appearance, ii. j0’ 71, note. Of a child under inoculation attacked with the measles, ii. 133 ; iii. 5. Ot a gentleman, proving that a gonorrhoea may produce a lues venerea, ii. 145. Of a young woman from the Magdalen Hospital, showing that a gonorrhcea may con- tinue two years, ii. 166. Of a gentleman, where a gonorrhcea continued a length of time without losing its virulence, ib. Of a gentleman, proving the same, ii. 167. Ol a man where the cuticle of the glans came off, ii. 168. Of a young gentleman where the gonorrhoea was confined to the glans, ii. 169. Of a gentleman, showing how the venereal matter is communicated to the urethra, ii. 176. Of a woman ha- ving a fluor albus, and communicating a disease similar to gonorrhoea, ii. 186. Of a gentleman cured of a gonorrhcea almost immediately by taking ten grains of calomel, ii. 196. Of a gentleman under a course of mercury contracting a gonorrhoea, ii. 197. Of a gentleman, showing the use of blisters applied to the perinaium in removing dis- agreeable sensations which remain after the cure of a gonorrhoea, ii 217 Of a gentleman’s servant, showing the same, ii. 218. Of a chimnev-sweeper’cured of a stricture by the application of lunar caustic, ii. 244. Of a gentleman relieved in a stricture by a gonorrhoea, ii. 250. Of a gentleman, showing the same, ib. Of a soldier, where a new passage was made along the side of the urethra bv a bougie, ii. • 5i **1 treatme,lt and Cl,re> l/j- Of a gentleman where a mortification took place in the cellular membrane of the penis from urine diffused into it, ii. 261. Of a man in St. George s Hospital, showing that keeping extraneous bodies in the urethra prevents wounds made into that canal from healing, ii. 271. Of a man in St. George's Hospital, cured of a paralysis of the urethra, ii. 276. Of John Doby, a poor pen- sioner in the Charter-house, who died from a suppression of urine occasioned by a swelled prostate gland, ii. 279. Of a gentleman, showing the inconveniences arising from a swelling of the prostate gland, ii. 281. Of a gentleman, showing the use of blisters applied to the perimeuin in spasmodic affections of the urethra accompanied with a paralysis ol the bladder, ii. 290. Of a total suppression of urine relieved by646 INDEX. Cr “ thr?ugh fhu rec,um- 293. Two instances of the same, il Of l ,! ”' 'T 6 “n“e passed fr°m the bladder i,,t0 tbe rectum, ii. 2J5. Of a gentleman, who was impotent with respect to one woman only ii 307 Of a young man cured of a seminal weakness by opium, ii. 309. Of a gentlemun’ where the semen passed into the bladder at the rime of emission, ii.310 g Of a gen- tleman, where one of the testicles wasted entirely, ii. 312. Of a gentleman show- ing the same, ib. Another instance of the same, ii. 313. Other cases, ii. 315. Ol a anO b??’ W ‘ere S6Vf " TeRs eIa?Sed between the application of the venereal poison and the appearance of a chancre, ii. 319. Of a gentleman, where the penis bent frictions Jomet- tlmC °-ereT°n’ iL 327■ 0fa gentleman, showing ft,at mercurial ' TT 8 °n the t0nsils Which have thc appearance of vene- real ulcers, n. 342. Another case, showing the same, ib. Of a gentleman with a Tukerafions" °f ‘hr prep"ce curcd b>' aea-bathing, ii. 350. Of a gentleman cured w , ulc.fr‘tlons resembling chancres, by the lixivium saponarium, ib. Of a gentleman t h.i. 1 U, swelll"g 1,1 the groin suspected to be venereal, ii. 3G6. Of an officer at lM0nnfhere a bubo Wi*s resolved, though it contained matter, by sea-sickness, ii. a KentIer"an> vvbe,rc a bubo degenerated into a sore of the scrofulous kind, n. 376. Of a gentleman who had a gonorrhoea and two buboes, where a new dis- position formed besides the venereal, ii. 377. Of a boy who swallowed some vene- real matter without any ill consequences, ii. 384. Of a lady who met with the same a deQnt’ **' 0f a cbl|d "ho was supposed to infect its nurse with the lues venerea, n. 383. Of a gentleman, proving that venereal complaints are often supposed to exist when they really do not, ii. 390. Of a man having the lues venerea; showing that the superficial parts, or those first in order, may come into action and be cured; while those parts which are second in order have only the disposition; but that they afterwards may come into action and be cured as those first in order were, ii. 400 Of a gentleman, showing the same, ii. 402. Of a lady who was salivated by a small quantity of red precipitate applied to sores, ii. 428. Of a gentleman, showing thc effects of mercury on the constitution, ii. 431. Another instance of the same, ib. Of a gentleman, showing that the effects of mercury on the constitution are not suf- ficient for the cure of thc lues venerea, it requiring its specific effects on the poison, as well as its sensible effects on the constitution, ii. 437. Of a gentleman, showing that the efficacy of electricity in the cure of diseases may be increased by mercury, n. 455. Of a man in St. George’s Hospital having the lues venerea, where a com- parative trial was made of the effects of guaiacuui and sarsaparilla, ii. 45G. Of a woman in St. George's Hospital having the lues venerea, where the cure was attempted by opium, but without success, ii. 401. Of Luke Ward, in St. Bartholomew’s Ho- spital, showing the incfficaey of opium in the lues venerea, and that it may sometimes act as a poison, ib. Of J. Morgan, in the same hospital, showing the use of opium in the cure of an ulcerated leg, ii. 462. Of a woman, where hemlock was of use in venereal sores which had put on a cancerous appearance, ii. 4G3. Of a gentleman infected with the yaws, ii. 472. Of a gentleman having a disease resembling the lues venerea, ib. Of a gentleman having a similar complaint, ii. 474. Of a lady infected with a disease similar to the lues venerea, by the transplanting of a tooth, ii. 483. Another instance in a young lady, ii. 484. Another in a gentleman, ib. Of milky blood, iii. 57. Of apoplexy, iii. 79. Of disease of the heart, with shrunken valves, iii. 80. Of disease of the heart, with communication between the ventricles, iii. 82. Of wounded crural artery, iii. 89. Of scarlet blood from the veins of the arm, iii. 91. Of fracture of thc thigh in a person who was paralytic from lead, iii. 137. Of disease of the heart, attended with peculiar symptoms, iii. 193. Ofecchy- mosis of the leg and thigh, iii. 218. Of Lord Hertford's servant, who wns tapped eight times, iii. 310. Of a gentleman, whose pulse became harder on bleeding, iii. 3G1. Of sizy blood, continuing after six bleedings, iii. 377. Of sizy blood attended with very weak powers, iii. 3/8. Ot erysipelatous inflammation by the side of the anus, iii. 401. Ot rigors, iii. 430, 431, 438. Of castration, attended with immedi- ate death, iii. 431. Of suppuration ol the cavity of the abdomen, which pointed in several places, iii. 4/7. Ol fracture of the thigh-bone, which had not united, appear- ances three or four weeks after the accident, iii. 490. Of dissolution, attended by the absorption of anasarcoug Huid before death, iii. 516. Of gun-shot wound in the cheek, iii. 555. Ot gun-shot wound of the intestines, iii. 561. Of gun-shot wound through the body, which did well, iii. 564. Of wound of the lungs, by a small sword, iii. 568. Ot inflammation of the veins ol the arm, iii. 583. Of introsuserptiun, iii.INDEX. 647 588, 592. Ot operation for popliteal aneurism by the author, iii. 598, 602, C03, 604, ?!05i ky *lr- Lyon, iii. 605; by Mr. Birch, iii. 606 ; by Mr. Pott, iii. 608; by Mr. Cline, in. 609 ; by Mr. Earle, iii. 611. Of horny excrescences from the head, iii. 632. Cases of dentition attended with anomalous symptoms, ii. 110. Of gun-shot wounds which were left to themselves, iii. 549. Of operation for popliteal aneurism, iii. 598 et seq. and m. 625. Of horny excrescences, iii. 631. Of a lady, two children, and a wet-nurse, infected with a disease resembling the lues venerea, ii. 475. Of three children and three wet-nurses having similar complaints, ib. Of diseases resem- bling the venereal disease, from transplanted teeth, ii. 483, 484. Castle-street Museum-, Hunter builds, i. 85. Opens to his friends, i. 107. Visited bv eminent foreigners, i. 1*16. J Catalogue of Museum. (See Museum.) Catketer in the urethra; mode of fixing it, ii. 270. Observations on the use of the, ii. r.7.1-,i H.ovv introduced into the bladder when the prostate gland is enlarged, ii. 2S1. Of allowing it to remain in the urethra and bladder, ii. 297. Cavendish, Lord-, peculiarity of his case of stone in the bladder, i. 322. Cavities circumscribed-, inflammation of, i. 441. Causation-, often attributed to some accidental circumstance, iii. 25. Cause and effect, the relation of, i. 208, note. ( nasties; how to apply them to the nerve of a tooth, ii. 66. Their use and applica- um in stricture, ii. 242, 245, note, 267. Description of an instrument for conveying them to strictures in the urethra, ii. 244. And of the armed bougie, ii. 246, note ; its , .,e; effe?.t '* rclu;ve spasm, ii. 246, note; accidents attending its use in cases , ^ 'C, Urt> I1' 24' ■ .note' Their use in opening abscesses, iii. 526. To be preferred °rn? r'nf ?penlng “bscesses in irritable persons, i. 557. Their mode of action, i. 0U4, 605. Their use m cancer, i. 626. Cautery actual; the use of, in diseases of the bones, i. 516, 528, 604. In cases of 1He- morrhage, l. 541. In tetanus, i. 586, 588. for the teeth ; how formed, ii. 33. (See Alveolar Processes.) Cellular tissue; preparations of the, i. 172. Inflammation of, iii. 518, note. Probably the regenerative tissue, iii. 271, note. y C>TlTZL peCUHarity in the structure of 'ts tongue, i. 251 ; and vascular system, iii. C/mncre; its poison the same as in gonorrhtea, ii. 143. Description of, ii. 316, 319, 2?** DT, Pr°duced ln three ways- ii- 317. May attack any part of the body, ii! 318. Not so frequent an effect ot the venereal poison as the gonorrhoea, ib. Its seat, ib. Are to be distinguished more by their course and progress than by their present appearances, u. 323, note. Of the distance of time between the application of the venerea poison and the appearance of, ii. 318. May produce a gonorrhoea by sympathy, h. 3-0. An instance of its curing a gleet, ib. Its variation from consti- aov ’Ac.i ' SOlnCn,I,‘” occaslons “ profuse bleeding, ib. Of, in women, ii. 3 i. Ot the vagina, n. 328, note. Observations on the treatment of, ii. 328. The constitution to be attended to in the cure of, ii. 329. Is a local complaint, but may infect the constitution jy the absorption of its matter, ii. 330. May be destroyed in two ways, by excision or caustic, ii. 330. Neither of these methods to be relied on, ii. 331, note. Its cure, n. 332. Local applications in, ii. 333. Is attended by par- ticular dispositions, which must be considered in the cure, ib. Its cure by mercurv given internally, ii. 340. Of the quantity of mercury necessary in the cure of, ii'. '• ,, klnd of false °',c ,takes Pl^’c sometimes after the cure of the true chancre, ii. taking nw'1Ue"„C<!S.».0fi ,he,r/reatment, i!- 344. Of dispositions to new diseases taking place during the cure of; their treatment, ii. 345. Cham -, flowers and fructifies in the hot-springs of Iceland, i. 293, note. Chelsea Hospital, i. 7, 14. Chemistry (applied to the investigation of the blood, i. 229, 355, notes. Has rendered important aids to physiology, iii. 12, note. Chcselden, Mr.; anecdote of, i. 7. Chilblains, i. 562. Children, sympathies of; less determinate than in old persons, i. 324. t hm, how projected forward in aged persons, ii. 33. OWmr, how far occasioned by a vitiated state of the blood, iii. 46, note. lord, on theiback of the penis; explanation of that appearance, ii. 358. Its ment, n. 370. irtat-648 INDEX. ^treatme^n’ 210?° The' '"f^ ^ inflamn,atory- in °*ers spasmodic, ib. 991TK ^ "m0, .™e.use of op.um in, tb. The use of camphor in, ii. 210 ,,,2 * *?5-. ase of electricity in, ib. The use of bark in, ib. Chrutte, Mranecdote of, i, 138. Christum, Dr., his work on poisons referred to, i. 355, note. Yefi7thnfCtaUSei°f the "■* i.lki,!Pss °f.the 8erun>. 50, note. Analogous to the blood, in. 67, note. Is probably alive, m. 117. Chyme-, the same from whatever substance it is elaborated, i 230 231 Cicatrices, contraction of, i. 430. Cicatrization, process of, i. 429, 554; iii. 500. Cicuta. (See Hemlock.) Ctha vibratory,of the mucous membranes; an important modern discovery, iii. 499. Circulation ot the blood; forces which assist in, iii. 229, note. Consequences of its interruption, 55 note. Rapidity of, iii. 38, note, 210. Varies in different parts of the body, in. 219. Dependence of, on the function of respiration, iii. 78, note. Manner in which it may be affected by obliteration of the valves of the heart, iii. 81. Gradual development of the organs of, in the zoological scale, iii. 100. Retarded in inflammation, iii. 326, note. caP*Hury! description of, iii. 196, note. State of in inflammation, iii. 325, note. Action of in the circulation of the blood, iii. 231, note. , organs of-, i. 166; iii. 145. Clarke, Dr. and Hunter, i. 75. Clift, Mr., i. 131, 154. , Mr. //., i. 154. Climate-, influence of in inducing a susceptibility to inflammation, iii. 275. Cause of, i. 294. The different means by which different animals are adapted to, i. 295, note' The effect of on disease, i. 354. In phthisis, i. 597. In scrofula, ib. On the lues venerea, n. 399. Cline, Mr., anecdotes of, i. 28, 53. Clot; synonyms of, iii. 17, note. Composition and form of, varies according to many circumstances, iii. 25, 47. Contracts for several days, iii. 25; but in this respect does not differ from the curd of milk, iii. 30, note. Is said to be affected by various stimulants, iii. 128, note. In the heart and vessels during life, iii. 30. Reasons for doubting whether it is ever capable of becoming vascular, iii. 269, note. (See Blood, Vascii larity.) Purulent deposits found in the centre of, iii. 457, note. Clothing, warm ; its advantages, in scrofula, i. 599. Coagulation of the blood, i. 233; iii. 17. An inherent property of the fibrin, iii. 17, 20. Called an “ act of contraction,” iii. 23; which is compared to the action of life in the solids, iii. 33, 113. Necessary to the maintenance of life, iii. 20. Use of, in the (economy, i. 234. Time'required for, iii. 22, 23, note. Effect of cold on, iii. 26, 27. Of air on, ib. Of rest on, iii. 28. Retarded by contact of blood with blood, or with the living vessels, iii. 31. An act of life, iii. 34. Compared to union by the first intention, iii. .16, 267, note. Whether attended with a rise of temperature, iii. 35. Cause of, i. 238, 239; iii. 43, note. Accelerated by syncope, iii. 74, note. By heat, iii. 134. Power of, destroyed in many cases, i. 236, 238; iii. 42, note. Effect of various substances on, iii. 134, note. Coagulum. (See Clot.) Cocks, experiments on ; in which their combs and wattles were frozen, iii. 109 ; and their testicles and spurs transplanted, ii. 56; iii. 256, 273. Colchicum; the effect of, in inflammation, i. 401. Cold; the negation of heat, i. 279, note; iii. 336. The generation of, in animals, i. 281, 292, 385 ; iii. 344. Its effects upon stricture, ii. 231. Upon the urethra, ii. 217. In disposing different parts ol the body in receiving the venereal infection, ii. 400. Applied to the skin, affects the deeper-seated parts by sympathy, ii. 399. Effects of, when extreme, on the animal body, i. 284, note. Induces sleep, i. 285. In moderate degrees, acts as a stimulant, i. 286, 289, 345, 370, 481, 562. On its employment in mortification, iii. 8. In inflammation, iii. 265, 385. Effects of, on the coagulation of the blood, iii. 26, 27, notes. And on muscular fibre, ib. Coleman, Professor, i. 48. College of Surgeons. (See Corporation.) Colour ; advantage of a white, in animals, i. 295, note. Of inflamed parts, i. 383. Committee; Hunter’s revising, i. 101.INDEX. 649 Compression of the brain, i. 487, 490, note. Concretion, gouty ; nature of, iii. 312, note. Concussion of the brain, i. 487, 490, note; iii. 241, 243 notes. From gun-shot wounds, iii. 553, 570. Consciousness; how used, in respect of the acts of an animal body, i. 232, 236, 255, 260, 264, 324, 361, 374, 398, 421, 430, 431, 524, 546, 553. Constitution; an act of, what is to be understood by, i. 306, 339, 340, 483. Scorbutic, ii. 132. Treatment of, in the cure of gonorrhcea, ii. 204. Effects of inflammation in the perinseum and scrotum, on, ii. 267. To be attended to, in the cure of chancres, ii. 328. How infected by the matter of chancre, ii. 329. Irritable, consists in an increased disposition to act, without the power of acting, iii. 378, 381. Often affected in a degree disproportionate to the apparent cause, iii. 425. May be fatally depressed by simple violence, iii. 431. Consumption; i. 596. Contamination; the meaning of, ii. 396. Contractility; a distinguishing mark of life, i. 242, note. Of the dot and muscular fibre, compared, iii. 43. Cook’s Voyage, quoted, ii. 143. Copaiba; in gonorrhoea, ii. 208, note. Copley Medal; Hunter receives, i. 107. Copulation; of the requisites necessary for performing that act well, ii. 305. Cornish, Mr., on the blood of torpid bats, iii. 33. Corns, i. 560, 561. Coronoid Process; in the upper jaw, described, ii. 2. The cells for the grinders formed in the root of, ii. 33. Corporation of Surgeons; Hunter a member of, i. 34. Blamed by Sir J. Banks, i. 141. Accept the Hunterian Museum, i. 142. Obtain a royal charter, i. 143. Correspondence. (See Letters.) Corrosive sublimate; mode of giving it in the lues venerea, ii. 408, 442, note. A cure for itch, i. 618. Cough; may be occasioned by the lues venerea, ii. 417. Council of the College of Surgeons. (See Museum Catalogue.) Counter-irritants, i. 406. Coverings, external, i. 172. Coieper s Glands; suppuration of, and fistula communicating with, i. 579; ii. 211. Affected in gonorrhoea, ii. 173, 178. Cowpox and Smallpox form a hybridous disease, iii. 5, note. Cranioscopy; the foundation on which it rests insecure, iii. 333. Cranium; fractures of, i. 489. Peculiarities of, i. 493. Crassamentum. (See Clot.) Croonian Lectures, i. 50, 83. Cruveilhier; his opinion respecting the reparative powers of the cellular tissue iii 271 note. ' Crystals; Hunter’s Collection of, i. 138. Cubebs; in gonorrhoea, ii. 209, note. Cuckoo; Hunter’s letters on the, i. 37, 46, 91, 94, 104, 117. Stomach of, i. 46, 92. Jenner’s paper on, i. 104. Cullen, Dr., i. 3. Cuspiilati, or canine teeth; particular description of, ii. 23. Their use, ii. 24 The frequent irregularity of, to what owing, ii. 88. Cuticle I cracking of, a symptom of the lues venerea, ii. 408. Separation of from the cutws, how accounted for, i. 397, 554; iii. 349. New formed, nature of, i. 431 ; iii. Cutis; new-formed, nature of, iii. 502. D. Dancing, excited by sympathy, i. 321. Davy, Dr., on buffy blood, i. 234. , Sir II., on the effect of gases on the blood, iii. 2S, note. Dead Teeth; in what cases they are preferable to living ones, for 98. The objections they are liable to, ii. 101. transplantation, ii.650 INDEX. "SnluWo'nTTL 26S- DifferenCe bUtW6en apPar£nt -d »• 3«5. Definitions; Mr. Hunter’s objection to, i 217 of- '• 334' 364'««• «>»• *«. to. Delusion ; explanation of, i. 333, 354. DeS,ZtteEmmeretS’ thC fir3t Wh° Perf°rmed ^nsfusion on the human subject, iii. Dentes sapient iw; particular description of those teeth, ii. 26. A frequent inconve ass/vser* at nviu"- ■"i" •- *• —*« ib. Contraction of the fingers and toes produced by, ii. 110 8 8 Denudation ; the decay of teeth by, described, ii. 70. (See Scurvu I Derivation, m. 338, 394. (See Revulsion.) K J' Dessault’s operation for aneurism, i. 98. Development, laws of; in regard to the vascular system, iii. 184, note. In retard to the nervous system, iii. 329, note. g Diet, vegetable; in scrofula, of doubtful efficacy, i. 599. Diet-Drinks; formulae for, ii. 348. Their use in the lues venerea, ii. 460 /Jigastricus; description and use of this muscle, ii 11 Digestion i. 247, 248, note. Organs of, i. 161. Of'the stomach, after death, i. 43, 165. Is suspended during hybernation, i. 286, note. Digitalis; in inflammation, iii. 387. /J,W; the tendency of to destroy the body, i. 215. Curable and incurable, i. 300. Pathology of, ill understood, i. 301. Requires different occasional causes for its production, i. 309 Causes of, ib. Two cannot possibly exist in the same pan 5 the same time, i 313 ; il. 132 ; in. 2. Observations on, i. 314. Constitutional and local, reciprocally affect one another, i. 338, 485. Specific, i. 342, 554 ; iii. 306, 308, note, 36/. Hereditary, i. 353. How affected by the mind i 359 —. Venereal; Hunter’s work on, i. 101. Its different forms, ii. 153! Varieties of, in different constitutions, ii. 154. Specific, observes a specific distance and ex- tent, n. 177, 39o. A number of diseases said to be venereal which are not, ii 4‘>3 Of the time necessary for the cure of its different forms, ii. 424. Of its prevention ii. 464. * 9 Diseases of the Teeth, specified, ii. 53. epidemic; an observation on, ii. 152. Dislocations, i. 518. Treatment of, ib. Disposition to action ; what is meant bv, i. 269. May wear itself out, ii. 270 To be distinguished from action, i. 271,300. And from susceptibility, i. 301, note. Is difficultly curable by medicine, i. 478; ii. 401. Dispositions, diseased; meaning of, ii. 396 ; iii. 238. Division of, i. 308, 555. Always simple, i. 313. Of the irritable, i. 555. Of the indolent, i. 557. Of the cure of, i. 56 1. Are always more difficult of cure than the action, ii. 401. Actions which lead to restoration cannot be called diseased, iii. 239. Dissolution, i. 341, 435; iii. 296, 506, 513. Doncllm, Capt., his trial, i. 81, 194. Drawing of Teeth ; the proper indication for, ii. 95. Consequence of deferring the operation too long, ib. Directions for its performance, ib. Remarks on the usual treatment of the gums, ib. How to stop the extraordinary bleeding of the gums, ii. 96. No bad consequences to be apprehended from breaking the alveolar processes, ib. Breaking of teeth, ii. 97. How to replace a tooth, drawn by mistake, ii. 100. Drawings, Hunterian, i. 149. Dreams; explanation of, i. 335. In what respect they differ from insanity, i. 337, note. Dress; Hunter’s style of, i. 133. Dressings, may be advantageously dispensed with in many cases, i. 429. Dropsy; the reparative powers often greatly reduced in, iii. 280. Oration; proposal for extirpating the cysts in, i. 573, note. Drowning; the question as to the probability of resuscitation from, iii. 32, note. Dura mater; tumour of, i. 124 ; iii. 473. Wounds of, i. 451.INDEX. 65 l E. Ear; burning of, useful in tooth-ache, ii. G6. Earl's Court; Hunter’s purchase of, i. 32. Description of, i. 120. Sale of, i. 137. Ecchymosis, i. 388 ; iii. 244. The blood does not always coagulate in, iii. 33, 34. The effused blood in, is always dark-coloured, iii. 87. Effect, ultimate ; of an animal body, is the preservation and continuance of the species, i. 225, 273, 293. Effusions, serous; in what respect they differ from the serum of the blood, iii. 21. Egg; development of the chick in, i. 176. Drawings of, i. 177. Life of, i. 224; which is evinced by its resistance to cold and putrefaction, i. 228. Experiments on, iii. 106. Elasticity; its properties and uses, in the animal body, i. 245 ; iii. 149, 155. Distinct from muscular action, i. 246, note. Electricity; destroys the contractility of muscles, i. 228; promotes absorption, i. 431. Operates as a stimulant, i. 482. Its use in chordee, ii. 210. In the swelled testicle, ii. 214. In paralysis of the urethra, ii. 276. In paralysis of the bladder, ii. 290. In venereal warts, ii. 352. Its powers on diseases increased by mercury, ii. 455. Accelerates the coagulation of the blood, iii. 34. Is not identifiable with the vital principle, iii. 122, note. Elephantiasis, i. 562. EUiotson, Dr., i. 285, 294, notes. Emaciation, iii. 11. Emetics; their uses and effects, iii. 383. In abscesses, iii. 417. The second emetic does not need to be so powerful as the first, i. 276. Eminent men ; their small beginnings, i. 5. Empyema; cases of, i. 442, 444; iii. 417. Enamel of the teeth; description and use of, ii. 15. Experiments on, to ascertain the nature of its composition, ii. 15, note. Formation of, explained, ii. 41. Endosmose and Exosmose, iii. 84, 85, note. Epididymis; state of, in a swelled testicle, ii. 180, 213, 226. Epistaxis; cure of, by oil of turpentine, i. 539. Erection of the penis ; how effected, i. 250. Painful, how prevented, ii. 210. Erectile tissue; the structure of, i. 251. Erelhismus, mercurial; described, ii. 432, note. Eruptions, venereal; variety of, baffles all description, ii. 409, note. Description of, ii. 410, note. Pustular, ii. 413, note. (See Blotches.) Erysipelas; described, i. 398; iii. 314. The order of the effects of inflammation re- versed in, iii. 284, 290, 315. Escharotics; their use in destroying strictures in the urethra, ii. 243. In destroying warts, ii. 353. Evacuations ; seldom proper in specific diseases, i. 609. Evaporation; one of the chief means by which the animal temperature is regulated, i. 289, note. Exacerbations; the reason of, i. 381; iii. 431. Examination, post mortem; of Hunter, i. 132. Of Sir J. Reynolds, i. 121. Excrescences, horny; iii. 631. Exercise; occasions the blood to become buffy, iii. 40, note. Exfoliation of bone; i. 514, 525, 529. Exostosis, i. 534. Sometimes arises from inflammation, iii. 533. Experience; the only means by which we obtain a knowledge of the powers of medi- cines, iii. 366. Experiments ; made to prove that matter from sores in the lues venerea will not afTect a person locally who has the lues venerea; but that matter from a gonorrhoea or chancre will, ii. 3S6. To ascertain the progress and effects of the venereal poison, ii. 417. Conclusion drawn from those experiments, ii. 419. To prove that mercury and its preparations are dissolved in the animal juices, ii. 453. Extirpation, of tumours; often difficult, i. 567. Mode of, i. 569. Extraction, of pieces of dead bone; i. 530. Of teeth, ii. 53, 54, note 95. The folly and mischief of, in many cases, ii. 47, 92, notes. Eye; inflammation of, i. 449. Doubtful if ever venereal, ii. 417. Of the iris, un- doubtedly venereal, ib. note.65 2 INDEX. . 260. The venereal Its effects on F. Face; how shortened in aged persons, ii. 32. tacts ; their use and value, i. 208 Fainting. (See Syncope.) tangs of teeth; comparative observations on, ii. 26. How formed ii4n wn tinue sound when the tooth is destroyed, ii. 60. SwellingrfX’. "■, 0, ..Con' Fa/; unnatural accumulation of, i. 563. Uses of iii 12 nofe ’T| tr,bed> '*• 7>• colour of the serum, iii. 56, note. ’ ’ The cause ,he milky Fatness; the cause of, iii. 11, note. FeTwct- PrCVent reaSonhl& and voluntary motion, r c’ wet, effect of on the stomach, i. 325 3 Fermentation, i. 217, note, 218. Not the cause of animal heat i 282 poison does not arise from, ii 147 ’ Fever ; two different kinds of, cannot exist at the same time ii 132 ^gonorrhoea, u. 205. Brings the lues venerea into action,T 400 disorfef ?34f iii3450743 H 5 433> r’°7- The effect °f “» incurable local and inscrofuhni's persons i S' SomeM m°St read!I>' leases of the bones by large abscesses, un.i, i.«7! ‘ i jail. (See Plague.) , suppurative; iii. 424. Sometimes takes place in gonorrhma, ii 191 ' > sympathetic inflammatory, i. 324, 341 ; ii 131 ■ ;;; i •{-j ,, ^ attend union by the first Intention iii 940 i'. V V ,, \ UoeS not necessarl>y same nature as the existing inflammation iii SOfl'^olcn"^61)' C!|Ual *4 a"d °f 0,6 circumstances, iii. 424. ’ J°0- V,olence of, depends on many Fibrin; solidity the natural state of, iii. 15. Described iii 99 c iii. 22, 24, notes. The most important element oT the blood iii I ThS ’ proportion of, in the blood, varie's, iii. 37, 46, note. Is increa d drning „7an m 6 “r’SK137- Unde,rg°^changes in ,he ii'fla"ied "ZRrSn-. 0dviir;;rtsH 267 noCreSAVrlar- 36,7\ And forms tbe medium of union afford itfi SOff ’ d beC°meS °fdle Same nature 85 the Parts which Filing ; the injurious effects of, on the teeth, ii. 81, note. l ingers and toes; case of contraction of, produced by dentition ii 116 FTP '■ ««.«».«»• Cure of, i. 581, m. S71 STo'toeollVud. i Of Cowper s glands in the female, ib. Of the parotid gland, i. 579 g * lachrymales, i. 578. * in ctno, i. 579. i^r-J itf cause, ii 268. The occasion of aguish complaints, ib. cure, u. 269. Description of the operation for, ib. 578. Its ... oi me operation tor, ib. iB.Tr'”'" * *“»"'»>• “• Huids, animal; the consequences of their stagnation pointed out, ii. 56. F octal peculiarities, i. 178. Foetus; before birth has no sensation, i. 264. Acephalous, i. 265. Progress of the formation of the teeth in, n. 33. May be infected in utero with the lues venerea by he matter which infected the mother, ii. 385. But not from the effects of that mat- ter upon the mother, It. 388 This opinion questioned, i. 354 ; ii. 476, notes. The blood of, does not contain fibrin, and therefore does not coagulate, iii. 37, note. Is more vascular than the adult, iii. 213. Fomentations; their use in inflammation, iii. 386, 396, 413. Fontana; his experiments referred to, ii. 164 ; iii. 30, note. F nod; on an artificial method of conveying into the stomach, in cases of paralysis of the muscles of deglutition, lli. 622. Foot, Mr. Jesse; his calumnies of Hunter, i. 21. His Life of Hunter, i. xxi. 22. His work on the Venereal Disease, ib. His Life of Murphy, ib. Fordyce, I)r., i. 44, 57, 85. His experiments quoted, ii. 291, 292. Foreign bodies; their approach to the surface explained, iii. 300, 479, notes. /• orient ion, the order of, in the development of the foetus, i. 264, note.653 INDEX. Fossils, Hunter’s collection of, i. 148. Fractures, simple, i. 439. Their mode of union, i. 501. Their treatment, i. 503. Period required for their union, i. 504. , compound, i. 440, 509. The question of amputation in such cases, i. 510 ; iii. 281, 575, notes. The danger of, ib. of the Cranium, i. 489. From gun-shot wounds, iii. 553, 570. of the Thigh, ununited, i. 426. Cause of, i. 504. Treatment of, i. 505. Fragility; of the bones, i. 532, note. Of structure, one of the consequences of inflam- mation, iii. 532. Frank, Dr., i. 146. Freezing, Mr. Hunter’s speculations on, as a method of prolonging life, i. 57, 284. Fresne, M. Du, i. 146. Friction-, not the cause of animal heat, i. 281. A stimulus, i. 481. Frost-bitten parts-, the principle on which they should be restored, i. 603. Frozen animals-, may be recovered, i. 284; iii. 107, notes. Functions ; of sensation and voluntary motion, perfect in proportion to the proximity of the parts to the heart and brain, i. 274. G. Gaertner, Dr., i. 146. Galvanism ; accelerates coagulation, iii. 34, note. A delicate test of the presence of al- bumen, iii. 49, note. Ganglions, i. 449. Gangrene, iii. 318. (See Mortification.) Garthshore, Dr., i. 28. And Hunter, i. 114. Kindness to Mrs. Hunter, i. 139. Gases, effects of on the blood, iii. 28, note. Gay Lussac and Thenard; their analysis of animal substances, iii. 20, note. Gelatine-, does not exist in the blood or animal secretions, iii. 20, 50, notes. Gendrin, M., iii. 325, 457, notes. Generation, organs of, multiplied in the lower animals, iii. 116, note. The ultimate object of life, i. 273, 293. George's St., Hospital-, Hunter a pupil at, i. 15. Disagreement amongst the surgeons of, i. 127. Appeal to the Governors of, i. 128. Death of Hunter at, i. 132. Gillaroo Trout, i. 50. Gland, prostate, swelling of, ii. 278. Its effects on the canal of the urethra, ii. 278, 280. Sometimes prevents a stone in the bladder being felt, ii. 279. Mode of detecting it, ii. 280. Its treatment, ii. 282. Should be perforated rather than puncture the bladder, in cases of retention of the urine, ii. 297, note. The use of hemlock in, ii. 283. The use of burnt sponge in, ib. Of the discharge of the secretion of, ii. 302. Mucus of; the distinction between it and the semen, ii. 203. Glands, absorbent-, swellings of, from sympathy, ii. 77, 182, 251, 256. Affected singly by the venereal poison, ii. 360. Those which are second in order are not affected by the venereal poison; the reason of this, ib. Swellings of, how distinguished from buboes, ii. 263. of the groin ; affected by sympathy in a gonorrhoea, ii. 177, 182. Of the ure- thra, their suppurations, how treated, ii. 172, 211. Of the groin, affected sympa- thetically by the use of bougies, ii. 251, 256. , buccal-, obstruction of, i. 579. Fistula of, i. 578. , conglomerate ; most susceptible of cancer, i. 618. , Cowper’s-, obstruction of, i. 578. Fistula of, ib. , mesenteric-, do not form the red globules of the blood, iii. 68, note. , parotid; obstruction of, i. 579. Fistula of, ib. Gleet-, its cause, ii. 219. Its cure, ii. 221. Balsams, their use in, ii. 222. Injections to be used in, ib. The use of blisters in, ii. 224. The use of electricity in, ii. 225. Its treatment in women, ib. Attends upon stricture, ii. 229, 257. In consequence of a stricture, its cure, ii. 248. Cured by a chancre, an instance of, ii. 320. Globules, blood, iii. 57. Teach nothing concerning the use of this fluid, i. 230. Their proportion to the serum, iii. 45, note. Uses ofj ib. Size and shape of, iii. 62, note. Motion of, i. 242; iii. 63, 131, notes. Origin of, iii. 64, 67, notes. Probably the least important part of the blood, iii. 68. Whether the ultimate molecules of the solid textures, iii. 103, note. Become heavier in inflammation, iii. 356.654 index. «\ Appears ‘'l? > without mercurv ii i *>q in** v , k ^ inftctioo, ii. 160* a.... ?ifll™':,'»di- e application of fresh mnttei- ;; i« .’. 9’ t.mnot be m- ptoms, ii. 171. nf/ °fIt7e7ti;mS pr.oduced by sympathy in/ii. 177.’ ' ... ' Its effects on the constitution in both sexes ii 1 SZfiXf??..*'- «•>»«■«»« 1 Globules, lymph, iii. 03, note. ~ pus, i. 317, n()te; iii. 449, ,,5C , /g « , Gonorrhoea; may produce a lues venerea ii U« TV urethra, ii. 159. Appears someth,wAkI -1---^*** n?t.ar,se lrom ulcers in the May be cured stinguish them note. The first the severest ■ the !■ 16 1 s °P,nion questioned, ii. 208, prove this, ib. Frequently continue ■ a 1 lnf\0Ileh generally milder; facts seeming to 215. Its seat in both sexes ii ifis o ft g time without losing its virulence, ii. ICO, AvJV n ’ , °ftcn confined to the glans, ii 109 Itssvm Affects Cowper's glands, ii. ,7.5. Of,he dfscharge in, i'i. 173? X • Uncommon symptoms in, 191. Its cure, ii. 192. No cured without mercurVas whh iT'lO^"1 °‘ praCtic<i iL 195‘ As soon ~uT„r iv r°" “7der * sional symptoms of, ii. ‘>08 An,I .1 y-05- Treatment of occa- certained, ii. 215. Symptoms nf jl • " ^'““'""between them not yet as- Supposed consequences of ii 227 DoeT1"8, ' *C fisease 18 subdued, ii. 2Id. Sometimes relieves a stricture ii' 249 M™ I" T™"0" s,rictHre> «• 232. tically, ii. 320. ’ ' ay be produced by a chancre sympathe- "^1,11M**’ UnL8Lofs^lymtf>fhw fr°m flU°r alb’,S> ib- Thc !«** as men, ib. Proofs of its existence in women ii' 190 Tf °Ut"°me" aS We“ exist without the patient knowing it, ib. Its cure, ii ^ uance> "* ,9L May Goods, Hunter’s sale of, i. 138. ’ Gout, peculiar effect of, i. 244. Relieved by local action i tnfi me Its connection with the secretion of uric acid i ’, ' °vr' , formed-1 Often produced by anxiety of mind, iii. 07c ’ ’ n°‘e- N°‘ hereditary, i Gouty Inflammation, iii. 311. More violent'than common inflammation, i*. 307. 358. Has Cases where it should be neiilmr ,1,0 ii. • violent man comm< repel^dJH. Sr"6 " SUppUrative disPosi>ion, iii. 302. Grant, Dr., iii. 58, note. .fjsr r,pr a? ■>t «vsrs Gregorte, Abbe, i. 146. Gregory, Dr., Iii. 306, note. ?• f5: “«’">»« .tec of the „PP„ ,„d mended, ii. M °f " *'“• ”h“ *■ »n e.rl, age, recoin- Grmvth of hones, illustrated, i. 253. Preternatural, of parts, i. 563. (ruaiacum ; its uses in the lues venerea, ii. 460 463 Gum Guaiacum; its effects in the lues venerea’ ii. 456. Gums, the nature and use of, explained, ii. 29. How affected by dentition, ii 34 Ex crescences from, how to be treated, ii. 75, 76, notes. Effect of the scurvy on ii 80 Treatment of in this case, ib. Symptoms of the disorder vulgarly callcd'the scurvy ot, i. 82. The cause of investigated, ib. Proper treatment of in this case ii 83 Callous thickenings of, ib. When of a cancerous nature req^c^S treaf merit, ii. 84. Remarks on the common treatment of, in drawing teeth ii 95 Mc thod of checking the extraordinary bleeding of, when a tooth is drawn, ii 96 An ii 97 ,VWhen thev0" "ht °'’ 'leccssar.v- when teeth are to be transplanted, . . en they ought to be cut, to facilitate dentition, ii. 108, 110 111 cu;e o?’i, thTr °f’ etXp!ai"ed> 72- Extraction of the affec’ted tooth he only n en, nV rtf u 1™°*’ c !*' n°'eS- How °PC" and dress them, ib. Treat- nient of, in the back part of the mouth, ib. (Sec Abscess and Scurvy.) Tl2$’ ,r" aPP ‘eS f°T a" assista',t’ L J07’ Hi* character, i. 127. Opposes Hunter, Guthrie, Mr., i. 549; iii. 576, notes. Guy, Mr., i. 35.INDEX. 655 h. Habit; as applied to the body, i. 274, 276. The importance of, in respect of the mind, i. 277. Hwmatemesis, case of, i. 483. Cured by oil of turpentine, i. 539. Hematocele, i. 463, 631. Hicmatosine, iii. 58, 66, notes. Hemoptysis; a precursor of phthisis, i. 597. Hemorrhage; capillary, i. 435. Cases of, i. 534, 543. Causes and kinds of, i. 536. Suppression of, i. 538, 541. Secondary, i. 542. From chancre; tire use of oil of turpentine in, ii. 335. After gun-shot wounds not great in general, iii. 546. Hereditary; how far diseases may be said to be so, i. 353. This property may be ac- quired, i. 357. Nature of gout and scrofula, i. 358. Of madness, i. 359. Of can- cer, i. 623. Hall, Dr. Marshall, i. 266, 293, 537; iii. 33, 87, notes. Haller, Baron; his abstinence from wine, i. 10. He discovers the tubuli testis, i. 18. Describes the hernia congenita, ib. Harmony, of the machine, i. 264; iii. 10, 125, note. Harvey, Dr., on the life of the blood, iii. 104, note. Hastings, Dr. C., on the state of the vessels in inflammation, iii. 326, note. Hatchet, Mr., on the composition of shells, &c., i. 159. Hawkins, Sir C., i. 25. , Charles, i. 127. Head, pains of, relieved by amputation of the leg, i. 401. Injuries of, i. 486. (See Cranium.) Health, the feeling of, often a precursor of disease, i. 311. Consists in the harmonious action of all the functions, i. 264; iii. 10, 125. Full, is not favourable for operations, iii. 281. Heat; the antagonizing principle to attraction, i. 213, 278. The nature of, i. 279. Latent and absolute, the difference between, ib. Its effects on the body, i. 280, 315, 344, 482. Some effects of, similar to those of cold, i. 281, note. On its employment in mortification, iii. 8. -, vital, Hunter’s papers on, i. 57, 68. Experiments on, i. 59, 65 ; iii. 338. A cer- tain standard of, necessary for the performance of the animal functions, i. 281, 285, 289. Which differs in different animals, i. 281, 288. And in different climates and seasons, i. 293 ; iii. 335, note. The causes of, i. 281, 288, 384; iii. 343. The au- thor professes his ignorance on this subject, iii. 16, 335. Does not depend on respi- ration, i. 283. This opinion questioned, iii. 343, note. Is the effect of life, i. 283. Differs in different parts, i. 288, 289. How the standard of, is preserved, i. 291, 292 Of inflamed parts, i. 384, 397 ; iii. 335, 338. In fever, iii. 337. Referred to the stomach, i. 384; iii. 336. Of the vital parts, not affected by local inflammation, i. 385. How far dependent on the nervous system, iii. 343, note. Heart; Hunter’s affection of, i. 44, 94, 131, 244 ; iii. 193. Adhesions of to the peri- cardium, i. 444; iii. 348. Its action, cause of, iii. 188. How far dependent on re- spiration, iii. 78, note, 193. And on the nervous system, iii. 190, note. Immediate cause of, iii. 192, note. Diseases of the valves of; cases of, iii. 80, 193. Case of, in which the ventricles communicated, iii. 82. Case of, in which the coronary arteries were ossified, iii. 193. The influence of on the circulation, iii. 173. Varieties in the structure of in different animals, iii. 174, 183. Use of, iii. 176. Structure of, th. Formation of, iii. 177. Size of, iii. 181. Contraction of, iii. 181. Cause of its impulse on the chest, iii. 185. Sounds of, iii. 186, note. Hectic fever. (See Fever.) Hellebore, a cure for scabies, i. 618. Hemlock; successfully used in nervous pains of the jaws, ii. 85. In scrofula, i. 599 • m. 3i 0. In swellings of the prostate gland, ii. 283. In what is called seminal weakness, ii. 304. In spreading ulcers of the prepuce, ii. 346. An instance of its having been taken in very large quantities, ii. 379. Its use in buboes, ib. In lues venerea, ii. 460, 463. Hemiplegia ; proceeds from the same cause as apoplexy, iii. 261. Herisson, M.; his sphygmometer, iii. 217, note. Hernia, i. 448. VOL. 111.656 INDEX. Ilernia «i»M from .he support of the dura mater being removed i 495 congenita -, disputes respecting, i. 18. K removed, 1. 49o. humornlis; symptoms of, ii. 180. Ilewson, Mr.; succeeds Hunter, i. 23. Hiccup, iii. 436. Ilip) diseases of, i. 595. The lengthening and shortening of the limb explained ib Uoffmau Mr on the arterialization of the blood, iii. 96, note. P Hollow Teeth ; methods of stopping, ii. 68. Home, Sir 25., becomes Hunter’s pupii, i. 44. Appointed to Plymouth Hospital i 72 T tU5“f. fr°‘n Ja'|lalca> >• 92- Becomes Hunter’s assistant, i. 96. His paper on the Ttrebella, tb. Elected assistant surgeon to St George’s Hospital, i. 108 Publishes CoTtest * St°rr °" ,n?a™mat*0"- V l23- Succeeds Hunter as lecturer on surgery, f*. Contest, St. Georges Hospital, i. 127. Present at Hunter’s death, i. l3f ^An- po nted Hunter s executor, i. 137. With Baillie, establishes the Hunterian oration i. 146. Destroys the Hunterian MSS., i. 152. His numerous papers in the Ph Trans., i. 153. On strictures, ii. 245, note. On the prostate gland, ii. 283 note! experiments of, on suppuration, iii. 445. On introsusception, iii. 593. Two papers of, con^nmg an account of Mr Hunter’s method of operating for popliteal aneE, c'rescenccs,' W 631 P ’ °" ® eartllaeeS’ 118 ! “* 625’ '"»•>' ex- , Miss, i. 40. Horny excrescences-, observations on, iii. 631. Humours; of the existence of, in the blood, i. 347, 352, note Hunter, James-, account of, i. 2. — , John ; his birth and parentage, i. 1. Proceeds to London, i. 6. His first essav m anatomy, ,. 7. A pupil of Cheselden, ib. His youthful freaks, i. 10. HiHd vantageous posmon, ,6 A pupil at St. Bartholomew’s, i. 12. Revisits Scotland, . i3. Enters at Oxford, t. 14. Resolves on his future course, ib. Enters at St 8“I‘!l0SP1r!l '• ,5' Bcc°mc* llouse surgeon, ib. His anatomical skill, ib. Ills dissection of the placenta, tb. Enters into partnership with his brother, i. 16. His part in anatomical disputes, i. 18. His paper on the descent of the testis, i. 19! balls into ill health, 1. 20. Becomes an army surgeon, 16. Goes abroad, ii. His private life and Footes calumnies, i. 21. Returns to London, i. 23. Settles in prac- nce 1. 24. His slow progress to fortune, i. 26. His ardour for the advance of his prolession, 1. 28. His carelessness of money, ii. Lectures on surgery, &c. ib. Re- commences comparative anatomy, i. 30. His extensive plan of research, i. 31. His originality, i. 32. Purchases Earl’s Court, ib. His amusements, ii. His danoer- ous encounters, i. 33. Elected an F.R.S., ii. Ruptures his tendo Achillis, i. 34. Elected surgeon to St. George’s, ii. Elected member of the Corporation ofSur- gcons, tb. Receives house pupils, ib. Moves to Jermyn-street, i. 35. His friend- ship with Jenner, i. 37. His correspondence with Jenner (See Letters), i. 38. ubhtlies on the teeth, i. 40. Marries Miss Home, ib, His taste for society* i. 41. Routs and soirie, ib. His family, ii. His papers in the Phil. Trans. (See Phil Trans ) Suffers from affection of the heart, i. 44, 244; iii. 193. Dissects torpedo, i. 46. Lectures on surgery, i. 47. His opinion of lecturing, i. 48. His character as a lec- turer, ib. His disciples, i. 49. His papers on anatomical subjects, i. 50. Engages Mr. Bell, i. 51. Addicted to fits of passion‘and to swearing, i. 52. His punctuality, tb. Allotment of his time, i. 53. And Cline, anecdote of, ii. And Blizard, i. 54! look but little repose, ii. Ilis amusements few, i. 55. Projects a school of natural history, ii. Made surgeon extraordinary to the King, i. 57. Appointed Croonian lecturer, 1. 58. Engaged in experiments on vital heat, i. 59, 66. Attacked with cerebral affection, i. 62. Visits Bath, i. 64. Returns to London, i. 65. Publishes second part of work on the teeth, i. 71. Ilis professional gains, i. 72. His estimation of the cost of his museum, ib. His greediness for rarities, i. 75. Claims the dis- covery of the anatomy of the placenta, i. 76. His quarrel with Dr. Hunter, i. 77. His reconciliation, i. 80. Gives evidence on the trial of Doneilan, i. 81. Elected 1* .S.B.L.G., i. 83. Completes his Croonian lectures, ib. Elected member of S.R.M.P. and A.R.C.P., i. 84. Purchases house in Leieester-fields, i. 85. Builds museum, ib. Assists to establish the Lyceum Mcdicum, ib. Assists to form Society for the Im- provement of Medical and Chirurgical Knowledge, i. 86. His consultation with Taylor, i. 87. His paper on inflammation of the veins, i. 91. As an operator, i. 93. His opinion of operations, ib. His heart again affected, i. 94. Visits Tun-657 INDEX. ,,rillge Bath, i. 9.5. Returns to London, i. 96. Engages Home as his assistant, i/i. Operates tor aneurism, ib. Becomes deputy surgeon-general, i. 101. Publishes on syphilis, ib. Publishes on the animal (Economy, i. 102. Prints at home, ib. His expensive researches, i. 105. Obtains Byrne’s body, i. 106. Receives the Cop- ley medal, i. 107. Elected fellow of A.P.S., ib. Opens his museum, ib. Obtains assistant at St. George’s, ib. Sits for his picture, i. 108. Patronizes Sharp, i. 109. And Mr. Thomas, anecdote of, i. 114. And Sir A. Carlisle, i. 115. And Mr. Lynn, i. 116. Loses his memory suddenly, i. 119. His love of life, ib. His residence at Earl’s Court, i/120. His toryism, &c., i. 121. Resigns his lectureship, '• 123- Preparing his work on inflammation, ib. Aids in establishing the Veterinary College, i. 125. Elected M.R.C.S.I. and M.C.P.S.E. ib. Disagrees with his col- leagues, i-12/. Supports Home, versus Keate, ib. Resolves to appropriate pupils’ fees, ib. His letter to his colleagues, i. 128. His letter to the governors of St. George’s, >b. Undertakes the cause of two students, i. 131. Attends at St. George’s, ib. His death, ib. Post mortem examination of, i. 132. His interment, i. 133. His per- sonal appearance, ib. His character as a man, i. 131. As a surgeon, i. 135. As a naturalist, ib. His will, i. 137. His goods sold, i. 138. His library, ib. His cry- stallizations, ib. Epitaph on, Mrs. H.’s, i. 139. His anxiety about his museum, i. 149. His intended works, i. 150. His leaning to the Stahlian hypothesis, i. 255. His love of truth exemplified, ii. 19, note; iii. 121, notes. Hunter, Dr. W.; a pupil of Cullen, i. 3. Settles in London, i. 4. Engages with Dou- glas, ib. Commences lecturing, ib. His narrow circumstances, i. 5. His anatomical disputes, l. 18. Offers to found a school of anatomv, i. 35. Builds a theatre in Windmill-street, ib. His quarrel with John, i. 76. His letter to the Royal Society, l. (7. His will, i. 80. His satisfaction in dying, i. 119. , Mrs.; her character and tastes, i. 10. Her parties, i. 41. Her letter to Jenner, D,crs,res t0.erect !l monument to Hunter, i. 133. Her reduced circumstances, '• Vrer PensI°n, ib. Obtains a situation, i. 139. Her epitaph on Hunter, ib. Hutchison, Mr. C., iii. 388. Hybernation; the animal and organic functions suspended during, i. 244, note. Com- pared with ordinary sleep and torpor, i. 285, note. Hydatids, i. 456, note, 572. Of the uterus, i. 573. Of the kidney, i. 574. Of the liver, ib. Ot the lungs, ib. Of the brain, ib. Cancerous, i. C19. Hydrargtjri oxymurias; a delicate test of the presence of albumen, iii. 49, note. Use of in lues venerea, ii. 408, 442, note. Hydrargyrum. (See Mercury.) Hydrocele, i. 454. Causes of, i. 457. Spontaneous cure of, ib. Congenital, ii. Di- agnosis of, i. 458. Varieties of, i. 461, note. Palliative cure of, i. 162. Different modes of radical cure of, i. 464. Causes of their failure, i. 470. Method by iniec- tion, l. 476, note. * J —, encysted, i. 456. Hydrocephalus, i. 488. Hydrophobia; does not arise spontaneously, i. 615. ib. Observations on, ii. 152, 383. Hydrops pectoris; symptoms of, i. 442. Hypertrophy ; from chronic inflammation, i. 558, 563 ; iii. 533 iii. 82. Hypopium, i. 450. Affects animals of different species, Of the heart, cause of, I. Ice-, of the application of in haemorrhage of the urethra, ii. 210 note Wo??33erS°mli the idua of’ some,*mcs lost in dreams,' i~ 335, note. Curious case Idiosyncrasies, i. 611. Iriynalion; the only artive principle of the mind in sleep, i. 335, note. The influence oi, i. 337, 351), 300; n. 4/9 ; m. 276. Impotence; its causes, ii. 304. Depending on the mind, the cause of, ii. 305. From a want of proper correspondence between the actions of the different organs, ii 308 Impressions, .. 267. Insensibility to, acquired by custom, i. 274. Innsores; the class of teeth so called, particularly described, ii. 22. Incoagulability, of the blood, occurs under various circumstances, iii. 42, note. 2 u 2658 INDEX. Incrustationsi on the teeth, the nature of explained, ii. 85. Mechanical, methods of removing, ». 87. Chemical applications, ib. (See Scaling.) Incubation; the yolk and albumen do not putrefy during, iii. 100. Indians, Last and West; their power of generating heat diminished, i. 293, note. Induration-, one of the effects of inflammation, i. 558, 503 ; iii. 532, note Passlmr Inm ulceration, the constant and distinctive mark of the venereal irritation, ii. 321, In*e*£ : mode Preventing, i. 296, 314 ; ii. 140. May he received through the blood, l. 352, no e. Venereal, the modes of, ii. 152. The opinion that it is received by matter only, and the practice founded on this dogma, questioned, ii. 141, note. May take place from simple chancrous induration, without breach of surface, ii. 112, note. Inflammation; Mr. Hunter’s treatise on, i. 123. Definition of, i. 393; iii. 297. Fun- damental principles of, i. 365 ; iii. 268. The knowledge of a first principle in sur- .Dlv's,on of> lnt0 adhesive, suppurative, and ulcerative, i. 366 ; ii. 135 ; in. 282, 298. Into healthy and unhealthy, simple and specific, single and compound, in. - Jb. Into such as affects the cellular membrane and body generally, and such as affects the outlets, iii. 298. The different degrees and kinds of, iii. 301. Con- sists in an increase of action and power, i. 365, 379, 381 ; iii. 7, 357, 372. Being a restorative action, is not to be considered as a disease, i. 365, 393 ; iii. 295, 305, 368. 6. Is allied to fever, iii. 275. Of the different causes which increase or diminish the susceptibility to, iii. 276. Of the parts most susceptible of, iii. 282. Of different «£an!and structures; produces very different effects on the constitution, iii. 277, » Causes of, i. 369, 371 ; iii. 304. How far the nervous system is concerned in the production of, iii. 328, note. Proximate cause of, i. 371; iii. 325, note. Is modified by the constitution, iii. 278, 307. By structure, i. 366, 373, 374; iii. 271, 274, 307, 310, note, 313, 370. By situation and position, iii. 272. By strength and weak- flf88’*; 27(i> 278- °f the different degrees and kinds of inflammation, ill. 301. Spontaneous inflammation the most violent, ib. That from the death of a part the least so, iii. 302. Carbunculous, iii. 317. Chronic, i. 557. Critical, i 370- in. 303. Erysipelatous, i. 398, 556 ; iii. 290, 314, 401. Gouty, i. 369; iii. 302, 311.’ Irritable, i. 556 ; ii. 193 ; iii. 374, 378. Attended with mortification, iii. 318. CEde- roatous, iii. 314. Scrofulous, i. 590, 593; iii. 307, 419. Venereal, ii. 177. In- flammation of the bladder, i. 448. Of the bones, i. 505 ; iii. 277, 278, 530. Of the bursae, i. 449. Of cartilages, iii. 530. Of the cellular membrane, iii. 316, 347, 528. Of the eye, i. '149. Of fibrous membranes, iii. 530. Of the joints, i. 449, 519. Of the lungs, i. 398; iii. 400. Of the lymphatics and veins, i. 451 ; iii. 519, 531, 581. Of mucous and serous membranes, i. 441; iii. 288, 529. Of muscles, iii. 531. Of the nerves and brain, i. 451; iii. 531. Of the pericardium, i. 444. Of the peri- naeum, and parts surrounding the urethra, ii. 262, 264, 266. Of the peritoneum, i. 445. Of the skin, iii. 528. Of the teeth, ii. 63, 67. Of the urethra, ii. 170. Ef- fects of, on structure, 532, note. Primary, ib. Secondary, iii. 533, note. Effects of, on the constitution, i. 375 ; iii. 278. Where the part is equal to the act, the constitution does not sympathize, iii. 321, 330. Effects of, on the vascular system, i. 376. * 1 , Adhesive-, i. 393, 398 ; iii. 321. Action of the vesselsin, iii. 321. Com- pared to a blush, iii. 322. From which, however, it is to be distinguished, iii. 324. The circulation in, accelerated, iii. 318, 323, 325. This opinion questioned, iii. 325, note. Colour of, i. 383 ; iii. 323, 326. Swelling of, i. 383; iii. 327. Pain of, i. 385 ; iii. 331. Heat of, i. 383, 397 ; iii. 335. Involves all the functions of a part, iii. 328, note. Effusions in, ib. Of the time that is required for its development, iii. 346. Of the uniting medium in, iii. 349. New vessels are formed in this medium, iii. 325, 351. (See Blood, Fibrin, Vascularity.) Of the state of the blood and pulse in, i. 381; iii. 354. Scabbing, iii. 362. General reflections on the resolution of inflam- mation, i. 386, 401 ; iii. 365. In what cases this should be attempted, iii. 369. Re- solution, by constitutional means, i. 401 ; iii. 372. Evacuations less necessary now than formerly, iii. 276. By venesection, i. 402 ; iii. 373, 387, note. By purg’ing, i. 405; iii. 383, 387, note. By emetics, iii. 383, 417. By local means, i. 402, 406; iii. 384, 396. By cold and lead, iii. 385. By warmth, as poultices and fomentations, i. 408 ; iii. 386, 396, 397, 413, 418. By mercury, digitalis, prussic acid, antimonial medicines and incisions, iii. 387, note. By colchieum, i. 401. By sympathy, deri- vation, and translation, i. 407 ; iii. 388. Uses of the adhesive inflammation, i. 398, note; iii. 399. Causes which limit the extension of, i. 39 4, 400; iii. 291, 268. InINDEX. 659 ■what cases and parts it is imperfect in its consequences, i. 399; iii. 346. Constitu- tional effects of, i. 400; iii. 362. Inflammation, Suppurative, i. 409; iii. 403. Difficult to trace the chain of causes leading to, i. 410; iii. 404. Does not arise from the access of air, i. 409 ; iii. 405. Nor from the violence of action simply, iii. 406. Occurs most readily in canals, i. 411; iii. 408. Symptoms of, i. 411; iii. 408. Treatment of, where suppuration must take place, i. 412; iii. 411. Also where it has taken place, iii. 416. Of col- lections of matter without suppuration, i. 413 ; iii. 419. Of the effects of such col- lections of matter on the constitution, iii. 422. Of the effects of the suppurative in- flammation on die constitution, iii. 424, 506. Divided into, first, the symptomatic fever; second, nervous affections; and third, hectic, iii. 433. Rigors, i. 411 ; iii. 427. Exacerbations, iii. 431. (See Pus and Abscess.) — , Ulcerative, i. 423; iii. 459. Of the function of the absorbents, ib. Of the uses of this inflammation, iii. 463. Of the remote causes of absorption, iii. 564. Those of five kinds, iii. 565. Of the disposition of living parts to absorb, and be ab- sorbed, iii. 565. Of interstitial absorption, iii. 469. Of progressive absorption, iii. 471. Of absorption attended with suppuration, called ulceration, i. 424; iii. 473. Is accompanied by a peculiar pain, i. 411; iii. 476. Of the relaxing process, which at- tends the approach of abscesses to the surface, L 422 ; iii. 477. The approach of ab- scesses to the surface explained on another principle, iii. 479, note. Of the intention of the absorption of the body in disease, iii. 481. Modes of promoting absorption, iii. 482. Illustrations of ulceration, iii. 483. Granulations, i. 426 ; iii. 488. Nature and properties of, i. 427; iii. 491. Are disposed to unite with one another, i. 428; iii. 493. Longevity of granulations, iii. 495. Contraction of granulations, i. 429; iii. 497. Cicatrization, i. 430; iii. 500. The new cutis, i. 430 ; iii. 502. The new cuticle, i. 431; iii. 503. The new rete mucosum, ib. Injections; different kinds of, used in gonorrhoea, ii. 19S, 209, note. To be used fre- quently, ii. 199. Their effects, ii. 200. In what cases they are improper, ib. In gleet, ii. 223. Injuries, which have no external communication, iii. 240. Those which have, iii. 251. Inoculation; queries relative to that operation, ii. 133. Case of a child under inocu- lation attacked with measles, ib. Inosculation, iii. 242. ■Insanity; in what it differs from delirium and dreams, i. 335, note. Infrequent in In- dia, i. 359. Hereditary, ib. Insects; transformation of, i. 253, note. May be frozen and boiled, and yet recover, i. 284, 293, notes. Instrument; description of one for conveying caustic to strictures, ii, 244. Inlrosusccption; paper on, iii. 587. Iodine; in the blood, i. 355. In phagadenic ulcerations, ii. 349, note. Iris; muscularity of, iii. 146, note. Iritis; venereal, ii. 419, note. Iron ; in the blood, iii. 18, 54, notes. Sulpho-cyanate of, supposed by some to be the cause of the red colour of the blood, iii. 59, note. Irritability; i. 315, 556. Restored by sleep, i. 266. Arises from weakness, i. 312. Consists in too great action compared with the powers, iii. 374, 378. Irritants, i. 312, 314. Irritation; specific, produced by the venereal poisou, ii. 151. Venereal, can be kept up but a certain time in gonorrhoea, ii. 163, 193. Venereal, parts become so habit- uated to, as hardly to be affected by, ii. 166. Venereal, takes place more readily in those parts exposed to cold, ii. 398. Constitutional, often disproportionate to the apparent cause, iii. 425. Itch, i. 617. Cure of, i. 618. Itching; a peculiar mode of sensation, i. 262. The use of, i. 264. J. Jalap; its effects on the stomach when thrown into the veins, ii. 332. James, Mr., iii. 321, note. Jar din des Plantes, i. 147. Jaundice; affects the teeth, ii. 19, note. Jaw; the upper, its form, and the hones of which it is composed, ii. 1. Lower de-660 INDEX. Which itu JXT't'; .id !0T’ e*plained’“• «• The several motions remarks on thesPe motions "t to these motions, ii. 7. Critical Difference between the grinded in ,1m I^er ani lower" 4 ‘V' scesses C^i ^ ?"* ^‘explain*, 7T 1? regularities between, and the teeth', P? ^ Ir' the lower one, ii. 93. (See Alveolar process.) y‘"g the ProJeet'°» of Jflli/. (See Gelatine.) 'vz&sssrs Ls- swallows, i. 91. His paper on the'cnckooTi. 104. E?crted°F R°S °f ; hts Irish friend, i. 5. His fear of death, F\T Hif definition of genius, '' Contracted, htlV^Kf Inflamm8,ion of’ L 519’ Juniors, Hunter’s behaviour to his, i. ] 14. Justamond, Mr., i. 2cS. ass?? 'isr ni- «.s7,no,..». Kidney ; preparations of, i. 170. Hydatids of, L57 4 Kingston, Mr., i. 35. ’ °n "" "l,ecti“ °f ,h* «*™“ - -W of Blowing Lacleals; discovery of, i. 250. Lancet-, the proper form of, for cutting the gums, ii 109 noTeT’ Mr’’ ^ H“nterian °rati0n’ 1 l46’ 0n in«W»M in inflammation, iii. 38S, /y dpitdrniolo'eS tv 6 P°we.rs.of restoration, i. 557. Its use in gonorrhoea, ii. 202. In file muscleTiii W^te "V'6 ',laiIller’. ^ removed, ii. 233. Its influence on ine muscles, m. 137, note. In inflammation, in. 384, 385 °” ,h'P">r«"»— '■ *' 0>I- Hu„«r;., i. 6. Of W. and J. Hunter, i. Id. Of nnte.r’'• ?8' V; , Croon,an- Hunter’s, i. 58. Surgical, MS. of, lost, i. 123 On surgery, i. 207. Method and intention of, i. 219. Lee, Dr. R., iii. 269, note. Leeches ; death of, from human blood, i. 354, note. An instance of, in which the blood remained fluid for ten weeks, iii. 33. Leicester Fields -, Hunter builds a house in, i. 85. Leopards -, Hunter’s encounter with, i. 33. Lepra-, venereal, ii. 411, note. * 1 Letters; of Lord Auckland to Sir J. Banks, i. 138. Of Sir J. Banks to Lord A., i. 141. OfJ. Hunter to Sir J. Banks i. 83 84 105, 122. Of J. 11. to the Koval Society, i. ifi n« h nr MC<lgH S’!' 2\ T,° Ur- Jenner» '• 37> 46> 55-76, 86-94, 103, no, Vf-1.18- 0e Mrs- H,lnter t0 Dr- •lenner, n 96. Of Wm. Hunter to the Royal So- tiety, l. tt. Leuchorrhoea. (See Fluor albus.) Leverian Museum, i. 147. Library; Hunter’s, i. 138. Lice-, body, live after being boiled, i. 294, note. Lichen; venereal, description of, ii. 411, note. Life; a power superadded to common matter, i. 214, 221; iii. 120, note. >• 223 ; iii. 2, 120, 126, notes. The cause of all actions, i. 217, 219. Definition of, A simple pro- perty, i. 221, 223; iii. 120, noic. Is not the result of organization, i. 221, 212 in.INDEX. 661 121, note. Or of action, i. 221; iii. 124, note. Possibly may arise from the arrange- ment of the ultimate molecules, i. 221 ; iii. 121, note. This idea illustrated by mag- netism, i. 221 ; iii. 122, note. Is also ascribed to the materia vitro diffusa, iii. 122, note. Is modified in its phaenoraena by organization, i. 223; iii. 124, note. Has been identified, but improperly, with galvanism, iii. 123, note. The propagation and preservation of the species, the end of, i. 225, 273, 293. Life-, of the blood, i. 231 ; iii. 103, 127, note. The argument for, a cumulative one, iii. 133, note. of the teeth, ii. 19, note. Ligatures; caution respecting their use, iii. 302, note. Lightning; destroys the coagulability of the blood and the contractility of muscles, iii. 114. Lint; use of, in dressing wounds, iii. 414. Lip; cancer of, i. 629. Liquor sanguinis; iii. 21, 24, notes. Liver; the reason why diseases of are more frequent in hot climates, i. 295, note. Hydatids of, i. 574. Living; above par, the pernicious effect of, iii. 276; mode of, under a course of mer- cury, ii. 440, 445. Lixivium Saponurium; its use in ulcerations resembling chancres, ii. 350. Lizards; Hunter’s experiments on, i. 21. Ticked jaw; iii. 379. (See Tetanus.) Locomotion; organs of, i. 158. Lotions; of the use of, in inflammation, iii. 396. Lower and King; the first who practised transfusion on the human subject, in this country, iii. 13, note. Lues Venerea; never combined with the itch or scurvy, ii. 132. And smallpox may appear at the same time, but not in the same parts, ib. Produced by a gonorrhoea, ii. 145. The cause of other diseases, ii. 155. The different ways in which it is communicated, ii. 381. Of the nature of the sores or ulcers proceeding from the, ii. 382. Does not contaminate the different secretions, ii. 383. This opinion que- stioned, ii. 477, note. Sores in the; the matter from, compared with that from chancres and buboes, ii. 385. Sores in the; the matter of, not venereal, ib. A person having the, may be affected locally by the application of matter from a go- norrhoea or chancre, ii. 386. Of the local effects arising from the, considered as critical, ii. 391. Of the symptomatic fever in the, ii. 393. Of the local and consti- tutional forms of the disease never interfering with each other, ii. 393. Of its sup- posed termination in other diseases, ii. 394. Of the specific distance of the venereal inflammation in the, ii. 395. Of the parts most susceptible of the, ii. 396. Of the time and manner in which the parts are affected in the, ib. Summary of the doc- trine on the, ib. Parts affected in the, are divided into two orders, namely, first in order of parts, and second iu order of parts, ii. 398, 425. Takes place more readily in those parts which are exposed to cold, ii. 398. Is brought into action by fever, ii. 400. Symptoms of the, ii. 405. Of the time necessary for its appearance, ib. Of the symptoms of the first stage of, ii. 407. Of the symptoms of the second stage of, ii. 420. Of the effects of the poison, on the constitution in the, ii. 422. General observations on the cure of the, ii. 423. The poison in the, circulates with the blood ; but its effects are local and may be cured locally, ii. 425. The parts first in order are easier of cure than those second in order, ii. 426. Of continuing mercury while the swelling of the parts second in order still continues, ib. Of the use of mercury in the cure of, ii. 426, 468, note. Preparation of mercury and mode of applying it in the, ii. 427. Of the quantity of mercury necessary to be given in the cure of the, ii. 433. Of the length of time mercury should be continued for the cure of the, ii. 343. Of the cure of the, in the second or third stage, ii. 344. Of the local treat- ment in the, ii. 346. Of the effects remaining after its cure, and of the diseases sometimes produced by the cure, ii. 457. General observations on the medicines usually given for the cure of, ii. 460. Of the continuance of the spitting in, 464. Of diseases resembling the, which have been mistaken for it, ii. 466. Error on this subject, ii. 467, note, particularly as to the grounds of distinction between syphilitic and pseudo-syphilitic diseases, ib. Supposed to be communicated by transplanting of a tooth, ib. b Lumbar abscess. (See Abscess.) Lungs ; inflammation of, i. 398 ; iii, 400.662 INDEX. Lyceum Medicum, i. 85. £;f5;s - i.«... 0bJ„. Prep„,„bn, of, "°'k “■* *■ !0- 531, notes. (See Absorption.) Konorrl'«a. »• 184. Inflammat.on of, iii. 319, Macaire and Marcet; their ultimate analysis of the blood iii on n„i» Machine; the animal body contrasted with a, i. 242 ’ ’ ’ * aSk°do£^ ?7‘ <See Ossification.) Man; distinguished by his reason, i. 200. Standard heat of i 280 wi .i . i ranked in the class of carnivorous animals, from his teeth ii’ 5? note *° ** Marcet, Dr.; his analysis of the serum, iii. is, note ’ 1C’ Marriage ; Hunter’s, i. 40. Martin’s, St., in the Fields; Hunter interred there, i. 133. Masseter muscle ; its description and uses, ii 7 Matter; the existence of, known only by our senses i 2ln a ’ i "j . 912 u . * -t ul,r senses, l. tiu. An abstract idea of i. Alt. Umerence between common and organic i oi.i u„„ ___ . . ’, other, unknown, i. 219. 8 ’ ’• U How one I>ass« into the Matter; of a sore, not pernicious to that sore ii itia Tui„ • • .... MnMjSce.yjKSM.1, ^ 'ake" int0 the sl0,"ach without Troducingany hid Mayo, Mr.; iii. 42, 62, note. Measles; case of in which it took the lead of smallpox, i. 513 ; iii 5 Mechanics; in what respect the power in, differs from that in an animal body, i. 242, Vflf- Hirer’S c?stributions to, on inflammation of On anlnri m V 1 °f ‘he as°l>ha8us- ' HO. On introsusception, i. 117. aneurism, ib. Jenner s paper to, on emetic tartar, i. 92. Medicines; the action of, i. 476. Our ignorance on this subject, iii. 366. Is only learnt from experience, iii. 278, note. y Membranes, mucous; inflammation of, i. 411 ; iii. 475, 529, note. Do not bear or re- quire much depletion, n. 208 ; iii. 529, note. “ ulceration'ri66nflammati0n °f’ 44*’ 529’ "°te- Rarely affl;cted Pri'"a"'y "ith , «norgamzed; produced by the coagulation and organization of fibrin, iii. 36 ———cellular; very susceptible of the adhesive and suppurative inflammations, in. 282 And also of the ulcerative, iii. 466. Further observations on inflammation of this tissue, lit. 528, note. * ,fibrous; inflammation of, iii. 530, note. Memory ; Hunter’s loss of, i. 119. As applied to the body, compared with the same faculty of the mind, i. 274. Menses; the blood in, is not globular, and does not coagulate, iii. 35, 85, 115. Mercury ^assists the absorbents in removing callous parts, i. 430. In diseases of the bones, i. j07. Ihe taking of, destructive to the transplantation of teeth, ii. 98. U nnecessary in the cure of a gonorrhoea, ii. 196. In inflammation of the testicle, ii. 212. Combined with mucilage, preferable to oily substances when used externally, ii. 333. Sometimes produces ulcers on the tonsils, which are taken for venereal, ii. ' . ^ rubbe<I i|lt0 the thigh for the cure of a chancre, sometimes occasions sin mg of the glands of the groin, ii. 343. Cautions respecting its use in phaga- denic ulcerations, ii. 349, note. And pseudo-syphilitic disorders, ii. 468, note. How to be used in the resolution of buboes, ii. 368, 371. Of the quantity necessary for I resolution of buboes, ii. 373. To be used during the suppuration of buboes, ii. 374. Appears sometimes to lose its power on the body, ii. 376. Of the use of iii the cure of lues venerea, ii. 426. Preparation of, and mode of applying it in ’the663 INDEX. lues venerea, ii. 427. The most convenient way of introducing it into the constitu- tion, ii. 429. Its action, ii. 430, 436. Its effects on the constitution, and parts ca- pable of secretion, ii. 430, 455. Its effects as a poison, ii. 432, note. Never gets into the bones in the form of a metal, ii. 432. Of the quantity necessary to be given for the cure of the lues venerea, ii. 433, 438, 444. Its effects on the mouth, ii. 434. Of its sensible effects upon parts, ib. Does not act by evacuation, ii. 435, 454. Of the different methods of giving mercury externally and internally, ii. 438, 440. When mixed with the saliva may act as a gargle upon ulcers in the throat, ii. 439. Mode of living under a course of, ii. 440, 445. Of the different preparations of, and their combination with other medicines, ii. 440, 443. Of the length of time it should be continued for the cure of the lues venerea, ii. 443. Of correcting some of the effects of, ii. 448. Of the form of the different preparations of, when in the circula- tion, ii. 452. Is dissolved in the animal juices, ii. 453. Of the operation of, on the venereal poison, ii. 454. Increases the efficacy of electricity in the cure of diseases, ii. 455. The effect of on inflammation, i. 401 ; iii. 387, notes. Mercury, perchloride of. (See Corrosive sublimate.) , protochloride of. (See Calomel.) Mercurius calcinatus; its use in preventing a lues venerea from a gonorrhoea, ii. 207. In the lues venerea, ii. 441. Metastasis; the laws which govern, iii. 389, note. Mezereon; the uses of, in diseases of the bones, i. 509. In scrofula, i. 599. In lues venerea, ii. 460. Miasmata; infectious, effects of, i. 296. How destroyed, ib. Microscope; the indications of, to be received with much caution, iii. 60, note. Middleton, Mr., i. 101. Migratory animals, i. 91, 294. Milk teeth; progress of the formation of, in the foetus, ii. 33. (See Dentition.) Mimosa; actions of the, i. 328. Mind; influence of, on the body, iii. 276. Molares; origin of the formation of, in the foetus, ii. 34. Mollities ossium, differs from rickets principally in regard to age, i. 532. Moon j the influence of, on diseases, i. 346. Morgan, Dr., iii. 410, note. , Mr., on inflammation, iii. 427, note. Mortification, i. 602 ; iii. 7, 318. Arises from the action being greater than the power i. 603 ; iii. 8. Of the teeth, symptoms of, ii. 59. And Death, not the same, ii. 60* note. Inquiry into the cause of, ii. 62. Prevention and cure of, ii. 65. Takes place in the extremities of tall people, and why, ii. 134. Of two kinds, ii. 136. Its cause ib. Its treatment hitherto in part improper, ii. 137. Its cure, i. 604; ii. 137. jjj’ 8. The use of bark in, ib. The use of opium in, ib. In consequence of diffusion of urine into the cellular membrane of the scrotum; its treatment, ii. 260. Occa- sions the blood to coagulate in the vessels, iii. 31, 42, note. From deficient inner- vation, iii. 329, note. Munro, Dr.; his disputes with the Hunters, i. 18. Muscles; loss of power of, consequent on injuries, i. 264, 439, 513, 517, 524. Con- traction of, in diseases of the joints, i. 516. Wasting of, i. 524. Colour of iii. 69 199. Experiments on, iii. 109. General observations on their action, iii. 145. The involuntary, the strongest, iii. 148. Of the elongation of, iii. 150. Inflammation of iii. 531, note. ’ Museum; Hunter’s, cost of, i. 72. His wishes respecting, i. 137. Pitt refuses to pur chase, ib. Letter from Lord Auckland to Sir J. Banks respecting, ib. Reply of Sir J. Banks to Lord Auckland, i. 139. Parliamentary committee, i. 141. Purchased bv Parliament, ib. Offered to the College of Physicians, i. 142. Accepted by the Cor- poration of Surgeons, ii. Curators of, appointed, i. 145. New building planned ib Parliamentary grants for, ib. Visited by eminent foreigners, i. 146. New building completed, ib. Lectures established at, ib. Hunterian orations, ib. Contents of j 148. MS. catalogue of, i. 151. Physiological department, i. 156. Dry prepara tions, i. 179. Osteology, t*. Monsters, i. 181. Natural history, i. 183 Pathn' logy, i. 184. , Catalogue of; Hunter’s anxiety to complete, i. 149. Sir E. Home engages to form, 1.152. Supineness of Council respecting, i. 153. In course of publication i664 INDEX. N. Nails-, the separation of, a symptom of the lues venerea, ii 409 <V m. Natural Hutory; a project for a school of, by Mr. Hunter i 55 nPB_ , , ■ , Museum, i. 183. * nunter, l. 55. department, tn the Naturalist-, Hunter, as a, i. 135. Necrosis; i. 515, 529. Of the mode of operating for i 530 23?26401fOC/theymo !"' f .Preparations of- Do not cause or support May exist without ^e*brai!r?e2flVrmt<f*SAreW^*C^V*k*^^,’ei ciJl)able L 201, 353. out bad consequences i 541 ’ 'nr ,\ , Are ?°nietimes included in ligatures with- =0, 03. MSd"f^.^L r„ ‘u %T’ ZZTf: °r il production of, iii. 120. g Method of burn,n8 th^, «• C6. Re- A ervous system; probably exists in all animals, i. 200, note. Influence of on the blood 1. 354. Influence of, on inflammation, i. 378; iii 328 531 note* ’ ntheblood* NUric acid; its use in ptyalism, ii. 451, note. ’ ’ eS' hades, Venereal; description of, ii. 420. Treatment of, ii. 440. Use of blisters in ii vtuZstur note. Is perverted or modified by inflammation, iii. 522, note. * ’ ’ O. (Economy, animal; Hunter publishes his work on i mo ti,„ c i a reSSi°" 0f acti0ns> “W out of one tnarnui; consequent on cancer, i. 029. Ointment; mercurial, a cure for the itch, i. 018 Olecranon; fracture of, i. 511. Treatment of, i. 513. nanism; how far pernicious to the constitution, ii. 304, 305, note Operations; Hunters opinion of, i. 93. Difficult to judge of their expediency loin The cause of their failure often obscure, ii. Should not be rashly 'uffie! i. n >n he Clrj“mstances whlch 8bould determine the propriety of in cancer i 027 Do not succeed in persons of full health, iii. 281 * ’ Operator; Hunter as a, i. 93. Ophthalmia, i. 449. O/ziaw; in ^ritable persons, i. 550. In mortification, i. 604; ii. 237. In priapism ‘ I” Konorrhoea, n. 201. In chordee, ii. 210. In stricture, ii. 235. In' posis'Ciia338*'°T °M 'V Urethra’ ii-..301- In seminal weakness, ii. 309. In mercury* ' 4s1 A " ven,erea>."- 44I> 4b0. In soreness of the mouth from In hiflammaUo;; iii 412. "b"* * «""n in ^ <lUa"titics> «■ 1C2- Organizatioii; the proper notion of, i. 222, 241. Not the cause of life, i. 242. Of Sri l.Blood’ f "Parity.) Gradual development of in the animal l. 401; m. io4, notes. Organs; vital, unmanageable in inflammation, i. 374. O’Shaughtiessy, Dr.; his analysis of the blood, iii. 20, note. Ossification ; the general progress of, different from the formation of the teeth, ii. 18 Of a tooth upon the pulp explained, ii. 39. Ostcological department of the Museum, i. 179. Ovum; development of, i. 176, 178. Owen, Mr. R.- on the placenta, i. 16. Appointed assistant curator, i. 154. Forms the catalogue of the physiological series, i. 155. O.rford; Hunter enters at, i. 14. Oxygen; its effects on respiration, iii. 20, note. P. Pain ; the nature of, i. 262, 361, 385, note. Why it is not felt by a part when it is struck by a musket-ball, i. 263. Dark people less susceptible of, than fair, i. 308.INDEX. 665 Inflammation of different parts and in different stages of its progress is characterized by peculiarities of, i. 397 ; iii. 331, 470, 502. Paracentesis Thoracis, i. 443. abdominis j cases of, in which the wound did not close, iii. 280. Parotid gland; fistula of, i. 579. Partnership-, of W. and J. Hunter, i. 15. Of W. Hunter and Hewson, i. 23. Paralysis-, of the urethra, ii. 270. Its cure, ib. Of the bladder from obstruction to the passage of the urine, ii. 287. Of the bladder, its cure when it arises from obstruc- tion owing to pressure or spasm, ii. 289. Of the acceleratores muscles; its cure, ii. 301. Paraphimosis; its cause, ii. 322. Natural, description of, ii. 325. From disease, de- scription of, ib. From chancres, the treatment of, ii. 339. Operation for, ii. 340. Parasitical animals; an enumeration of several species, iii. 256, note. Patella; fracture of, i. 511. Pathology, humoral, considered, i. 347, 352. The foundation of, is laid in experi- ence, iii. 277, note. Pearls-, Hunter’s, i. 105. Pearson, John, ii. 457, note. Peculiarities of animals, i. 173. Penis-, the structure of, i. 251. Sensation of, i. 262. Cancer of, i. 330. Pericardium-, inflammation of, i. 444; iii. 348. Use of, iii. 180. Peritueum; fistula of, i. 580. Operations on, in cases of retention of urine, from stric- tures, ii. 296, note. Period, latent-, of diseases, what meant by, i. 309, 312. Periosteum-, of the teeth, described, ii. 2. Peritoneum ; inflammation of, i. 445. In puerperal women, i. 446. After tapping, i. 447 Personal appearance ; Hunter’s, i. 133. Philosophical Transactions; Hunter’s contributions to, on the Proteus of Ellis, i. 33. On the digestion of the stomach after death, i. 43. On the torpedo, i. 47. On the gizzard trout, i. 50. On the air-receptacles of birds, ib. On the recovery of drowned persons, i. 57. On vital heat, i. 57, 68. On the free-martin, i. 73. On smallpox during pregnancy, i. 80. On the change of plumage in birds, ib. On the ear in fishes, l. 84. On the wolf, jackal, and dog, i. 105, 117. On whales, i. 105. On bees, l. 122. Home’s papers in, i. 153. Dr. Jenner’s, on the cuckoo, i. 101. Phimosis; its cause, ii. 322. Natural, description of, ii. 325. From disease, description ot, ib. Its treatment when produced by or attended with chancre, ii. 334, 339, note. Produced by chancres, the common operation for, ii. 336. Of the constitu- tional treatment of, ii. 338, 339, note. Phlebitis ; i. 451 ; iii. 319, 581. Causes and treatment of, i. 452; iii. 582, 585. Fre- quency of, in the horse, i. 452; iii. 583. Phthisis Pulmonalis, i. 596. The blood often huffy in the latter stages of, iii. 40, note. Physician-Anatomists, i. 5. Physiology ; study of, much aided by comparative anatomy, disease, and monstrosities, l. 220. A complex science, embracing many diilerent branches of knowledge, iii. i — df note* Picture-, Hunter’s, by Sir J. Reynolds, i. 108. Pictures; Hunter’s love of, i. 38. Pins and needles; traverse the body without exciting pain or inflammation, iii. 287. he stomachs of animals which feed in bleaching-fields often stuck full of, without inconvenience, ib. ’ Piracy ; literary, complained of by Hunter, i. 84; iii. 2. I i/cairn, Dr. D.; in consultation with Hunter, i. 610. Placenta ; anatomy of, i. 15, 76. Plague, the poison of, affects the constitution in a specific manner, iii. 307. 1 lant Sensitive ; motions ot the, i. 328. Plaster ; stimulant, to promote suppuration, iii. 418. Pleura ; very susceptible of inflammation, i. 442. Plunkett; the cancer-curer, anecdote of, i. 625. Poison ; venereal, its origin doubtful, ii. 138. Began in the human race, and in the parts of generation, ». 139. Its nature, ib. Its effects, ii. 110. Propagated 1 v matter, u. 110, 192. Its action, ii. 112. Its greater or less ucrimony, ib. It affects666 INDEX. rX’.te th same in g<rrrh“a as in .«. South Sea Islands ii 145 pL ? 1,i.°VV to Uie inhabitants of the pens, ii. HS The ^uL nf ^ f°T °f the disease • how *W« hap- mcntation, ii. 149. Its effects tfris^'from^118 -147‘ .Docs not arise fro™ fer- body in two different wavT locallv -,n4 'J*^™*!** il 151- Affects the tween the applicat!on and'eiect i 160 Aonlied"* "* ^ ,in’e be' sn ™“r «*»> S'“ Wht 357 °r the lj,"Pha"c glands, forming bu- ™riroSE„;,;hfi? sf-'sA S 1‘' be cured l«aiyS •*» *“ - l~i Poisons■ the efferts nf i il’n ‘ ,* of theoperation of mercury on the, ii. 454. „nl ’ e effects of, t. 355, note. General considerations on, i. Cl 1. Of the differ Vegetable"! 6 f 616 ; «7, note. Mhira. Sfc egetahle, 1. 614. Animal, ii. Morbid, l. 615 ; ii. 138. Modes of receiving i 616 New, are rising up every day, ii. 477. Particular, affect particular structures iii 6 Do not essentially alter the inflammatory action, iii. 300 ’ »>• 6. Polypi, i. 568. Of the uterus, ib. Position; the effect of, on the progress and cure of disease, iii. 272. / ntd.sk; hydriodate of, its use in pliagadenic ulcerations, ii. 349, note : ?r;fSC “ 5 If** 1!?? *?! ?f the >.,resence of albumen, iii. 49, note. Of sea-water, in scrofula, i. 600. . - ul uie presence lotassa Fusa-, when and how it should be used, i. 603 Hfr^nd hK imPr0Ven“e,n,tS inIls.urKery. i- 13. His disputes with Hunter, i. 18. His i 547 CharUCter’ ’• H1- Hls strictures on Mr. Hunter’s operation for aneurism, Poultices; in inflammation, i. 412; iii. 397, 413. Stimulant, so as to promote suppuration, iii. 418. Practice ; Hunter’s dislike of, i. 28. Amount of, i. 40, 72. Slow progress in, i. 26. In dispositions; require an exciting cause for their development, i! 306 Pregnancy; state of the blood in, iii. 357. Pressure; a cause of absorption and thickening, i. 256, 421, 464; iii. 466. A stimulus li 4ol. Prevest and Dumas j on the blood-globules, iii. 64, note. Principle, aromatic; of the blood, iii. 54, note. , of conservation and repair; inherent in an animal body, iii. 269 —vital; unlike any power or property in physics, i. 223. Used synonymously with simple animal life, l. 217, 318. Reasons for retaining the terra, iii. 125, note. 1 he presence of, prevents substances from acting as foreign bodies, iii 256 Principles; the value of in surgery, i. 208, 365 ; iii. 297. Secondary, i. 275. Con- nexion between, in the higher animals, i. 264, 318. Mechanical and chemical, often introduced into the animal ceconomy, i. 217; iii. 125, note. — proximate; of organized bodies, i. 215, 216, 218, notes. Easily convertible into one another, iii. 37, 41, 45, 55, notes. Printing-, carried on in Hunter’s house, i. 102. Processions; Hunter’s dislike of, i. 121. Professional men; their slow progress, i. 25. Projection; of the under jaw, method of rectifying, ii. 94. Propagation and Preservation of the species, the ullimate end of life, i. 225. 273 293 Prostate Gland. (See Gland.) ’ ’ Prout, Dr.; on the salts of the blood, iii. 47, note. On animal chemistry, iii. 67, note. Prussic acid; in inflammation, iii. 387, note. Psoriasis venereal-, description of, ii. 412, note. Pterygoideei muscles-, their description and use, ii. 10. Ptyalism, ii. 434, 464. Of the use of nitric acid in, ii. 451, note. Pulse; the state of, in disease, i. 362. In inflammation, i. 376, 382; iii. 354, 358. In inflammation of different textures and organs, iii. 302. How far an indication for bleeding can be derived from, i. 404 ; iii. 360, 379. In different animals, iii. 194.INDEX. 66 7 Cause of, iii. 216. Is the result of the combined action of the heart and arteries and the part affected, iii. 359, 362. Rises after bleeding, iii. 362. Sometimes even be- comes harder, iii. 361. Punctuality ; Hunter’s, i. 52. Baillie’s, i. 53. Pupils', Hunter’s, i. 28, 34, 49. Pees of, disputes respecting, i. 127. Purging-, in inflammation, i. 406; iii. 382. Pus, i. 414; iii. 438. General opinion of the formation of, iii. 410, 457, note. Expe- riments to ascertain the progress of suppuration, iii. 444. To be regarded as the re- sult of secretion, iii. 410, 422, 440, 457, note. Production of, independently of in- flammation, i. 413; iii. 419. This opinion questioned, iii. 421, note. Properties of, i. 414; iii. 449. Of the distinction between pus and mucus, i. 417. Has all the specific qualities of the part which produces it, iii. 452. And is not injurious to the parts which secrete it, ii. 165, 453 ; iii. 452. This opinion questioned, ii. 228, note. Corrosive, i. 418; iii. 452. Uses of, i. 419 ; iii. 455. From diseased bones, i. 516 ; iii. 455. Scrofulous, i. 594 ; iii. 417. Composition of, iii. 456, note. Progress of, towards the surface, iii. 479, note, 520. Is found in unorganized coagula, iii. 457, note. Putrefaction; peculiar kind of, attended with emphysema, i. 226. Is slower in taking place in young and inflammatory than in old and healthy blood, iii. 124, 128, 132, notes. Q. Queensbury, case of the Duke of, who broke his teudo Achillis, i. 264, 439. It. Rabbit-mouth; means of rectifying, ii. 91. Rabbits; experiments on, of freezing their ears, iii. 108, 323. Ramollissemcnt, iii. 532, note. Raspail, M.; on the formation of the red globules, iii. 64, note. Reading and Reflection ; their advantages compared, i. 210. Reason; the result of sensation, i. 259. The distinguishing attribu'e of man, i. 260. Sometimes active during sleep, i. 335. Redness; in inflammation, accounted for, i. 383. Sometimes deficient, i. 397, note. Relaxation; of the skin, precedes the approach of an abscess to the surface, iii. 477. Replacing of a tooth drawn by mistake, instruction for, ii. 100. Reproduction ; organs of, i. 17 4. Repulsion, i. 210; iii. 388, 391. Resistance; of heat and cold, in animals, i. 289. Respiration; organs of, i. 169. Artificial, mode of producing, iii. 76. Connection of, with the circulation, iii. 78, note. Importance of, iii. S6. Changes effected by, on the blood, iii. 90, 92, notes. Resolution; of inflammation, i. 387, 400. Rest; effect of, on coagulation, iii. 28, 30, 33, notes. Restoration; the powers of, in inflammation, i. 309, 501, 555. Greater in youth than in age, i. 484. Of joints, extremely limited, i. 519. Different from resistance to disease, iii. 3, note. Resurrection-men; Hunter a favourite with, i. 10. Rete-mncosum, i. 431 ; iii. 505. Revulsion, i. 321, 407 ; iii. 388, 395. Reynolds, Sir J.; his picture of Hunter, i. 108. His death and funeral, i. 121. Rickets, i. 531 ; ii. 18. Rigors; depend on the novelty of an unaccustomed action or impression, i. 379; jij. 358. How far the stomach is concerned in their production, iii. 346, 429. To be regarded as a proof of debility, iii. 358, 430. Roche, M. de la, i. 289, 290. Roget, Dr., iii. 79, note. Roof, of the mouth; osteological description of, ii. 1. Rot, the; in sheep, i. 572. Rotting, of the teeth ; symptoms and consequences of, ii. 59. Inquiry into the cause668 INDEX. 3 lTZ?°olh?v “"r C°^‘"a> «• Symptoms of by, ib. Prevention a cureoTii 56. * eXtraC“°n’ "k 65' The brcatl> ™d«ed foul lioyat Society ; Hunter elected a fellow of, i. 33. (See Phil Tram 1 "T':UM 1 d“'r“>'1 *-» "<•>■ «f «» «o.d or™*,, AV;»« venereal-, description of, ii. 412, note. Kussiun savans; tlieir opinion of Hunter’s museum, i. 147. S. Sacculi nmcosi, inflammation of and cure, i. 449. - ac3; adventitious, formed for the lodgement of bullets, glass, &c iii 289 t "of°:v °,errefby a sore bein«d—> red ^5;, n S ■ supposed*uset^t‘6. rda‘,Ve in bcalth and di—> ««• 46, note. Their «r °r ,h°>i M ■» ^ »•™>. Scabbing, i. 429; iii. 262, 264. Scabies, i. 617. Scalds, iii. 265. fca^l °r tCetl,V ‘a® UtiHty0fthis °Peration, ii. 54. Caution in, ii. 87. ciefi eia* 86r ’ ln anasarca> L C03‘ I" mortification, i. 604. In carbun- Scbultz, M., iii. 63, 197, notes. Schwilgue; on the composition of pus, iii. 457, note. Scion tooth ; instructions for the choice of, ii. 99. Scorpions-, may poison and destroy one another, i. 614. Scrofula-, observations on, i. 590; ii. 155, 156, 216, 219, 432, note; iii. 307, 417 419 358 5Sg8|Ubj par!0’ K f°\ • PredlsP.osing <-'ai,scs *• 308, 592. Not hereditary, i. 3. 8, 591. Parts most subject to, ■. 591. Of climates and seasons, in reference to his disease, i. 5J2. Susceptibility to, may be acquired, ib. Progress of i 593 Appearances of, i. 594. Of the testicle, i. 597. Of Ihe b east, ,5. Medical treat-' ment of, i. 598. Surgical treatment of, i. 600. aieuical tieat- Scrolum; relaxation of the, the cause of, ii. 305. Scurvy, effects of that disorder on the gums and alveolar processes, ii. 80 Is the first object of cure, ii. 81. Of the gums, ii. 82. ’ is tlte first Seasons; influence of, on disease, i. 345, 592. Secretion, i. 250. Rapidity of, iii. 38, note. Influence of the nervous system on, iii. ozv, note. ' 1 Secretions; uses of, i. 250. Of the skin, acid in rheumatism, i. 353, note Sedatives ; effects of, i. 314. Seeing-, the sense of, compared with that of feeling, i. 212. Sensation ; cannot exist without the brain and nerves, i. 259. Delusive, from sympatb v and when the nerves are injured, explained, i. 261, 326. Is only to be perceived within certain limits of time and space, i. 263. In healthy persons is in proportion o the nerves and vascularity of the part, i. 263 ; iii. 200. But not in disease, iii. 334. Does not exist in the unborn foetus, i. 264. May be produced in any part by fixing the attention to that part, i. 337. Continued, exhausts life, i. 266. Some actions independent of, i. 264, 318. Suspended during sleep, i. 335. Of inflamed parts’ S-nscs: organs of, preparations of, i. 171. How to be considered, i. 261 Sensibility and Contractility ; the distinguishing properties of an animal body, i. 242. note. J 9 —~~~*bc teeth ; accounted for, ii. 50, note. Of diseased parts, not in proportion to the quantity of nerves, iii. 334. Serosity ; account of, iii. 50. Serum, iii. 39. Analysis of, iii. 18, note. Proportion of, to crassamentum, iii. 25, 47, notes. Specific gravity of, iii. 47, note. Becomes lighter in inflammation, iii. 356. Proportion of albumen in, in health and disease, iii. 45, note. Sometimes separates before coagulation, iii. 46. Colour of, iii. 47. Coagulation of, iii. 49. Milky, iii. 55.INDEX. G69 Sharp, Samuel, i. 25. , William, i. 4. , the engraver, i. 109. Shedding of teeth; the process of, explained, ii. 43. The necessity of a new set, pointed out, ii. 46. Sickness ; produced by a bougie, i. 311, 320. By'an enema, i. 311. Silica; its solution compared to that of the albumen in the serum, iii. 49, note. Simpson, Dr., iii. 410, note. Skin; sympathy of, with the stomach, i. 325. Seems to be the cause of the suscepti- bility of the absorbents to receive venereal irritation, ii. 361. Inflammation of, iii 528, note. Skinning. (See Cicatrization.) Sleep; small portion of, required by Hunter, i. 54. The nature of, i. 265. Sloughing; the causes of, i. 602. Mode in which the dead parts are detached, i. 600. Sores, from contusion, treatment of, iii. 266. (See Mortification.) Smallpox; case of, which was checked by the occurrence of measles, i. 313 ; iii. 5. The pits left by, caused by a sloughing of the cutis, i. 426. May be received in utero, i. 354, note. Effects its own cure, i. 616. Matter, immaterial from what subject taken, n. 143. The reason why a person cannot be infected twice with, ii. 392. And cow- pox, are sometimes combined, iii. 5, note. Snakes; instances of, where they have remained fat for several months, without taking food, iii. 12, note. Society; Hunter’s early position in, i. 10. His taste for, i. 41. Soda; the use of, in carbuncle, i. 610. Soemmerring, A. Von; his letter, on being elected F.R.S., i. 73. Softening, of the tissues, in inflammation, iii. 532, note. Soiree ; Hunter’s conduct at, i. 41. Solander, Dr., how affected by cold, i. 286. Somnambulism, i. 335. Sores, fungated, i. 629. (See Ulcer, Chancre.) South Sea Islands; inhabitants of, how affected with lues venerea, ii. 143. Species ; the meaning of this term, as applied to disease, iii. 1. Sphacelus, i. 226. (See Mortification.) Sponge, burnt; its efficacy in scrofula, i. 599. Specific gravity; of the blood, iii. 22, note. Of milky serum, iii. 46, note. Of serum and serous effusions, iii. 47, note. Speech, depends on the respiration being partially under the will, iii. 194. Spleen ; the red globules not formed in, iii. 68, note. Spots of blood; tests for distinguishing them from other stains, iii. 54, note Sprains, i. 517. Stevens, Dr ; on the salts of the blood, iii. 46, note. His theory of arterialization ex- amined, in. 94, note. Stimuli; the nature of, explained, i. 269. Carried to their utmost extent, act as seda- tives, i. 26J, 471, It J. This exemplified by cold, i. 286. Effects of, i. 314 470 I11 mortification, iii. 8. ’ Stimulus; of necessity, the sense in which this term is employed, i. 236, 308 316 361 f°2%562°3’»j"’«• a s^pathetic stimii'us-iii: ,46> »°* SS2K: . 22 V “3!)’ ~69’ 446 • ,n- 114> n°te. Of imperfection, called also the irritation or consciousness of imperfection, i. 232, 255, 387, 398; iii. 239. Of nature, i 238 Of want, or hunger, i. 270, 311. Of weakness, i. 529. Stoker, Dr., iii. 39. Stoll, Dr., i. 146. Stomach; sympathy Of, with other parts, i. 245, 248, 325, 378 ; iii. 346, 429. With the mmd, i. 249. With the skin, i. 325. The principal part in the lower animals, ie powers of, ib. The effects of inflammation on, i. 278 ; iii. 362 The e *ife’ V »?■. ,379 * 429' The «ource 'mat and cold, i. 384 in. 336, 345. Is often multiplied in the lower animals, iii. 116. Stone in the bladder; indicated by pain in the left arm, i. 322. Stopping of hollow teeth; method of performing, ii. 68, 69, note. Strangury; the use of blisters in, ii. 218. Its cause, ii. 273. Strawberries ; sometimes act as a poison, i. 611. Strength ; in what sense this term is used, iii. 277.670 INDEX. Strili%ild weakness' how they niodi'y the phenomena of inflammation, i. 374; iil. — and action. (See Action.) Tu!tll n?'7i f; "V22"- description of, ii. 230. AlfoCol 0, n.. iho ,»v, of^'vi, ^ «• ■" ««»«a lone-continued irritmir., c ,v ? lt’ ' ■ 232, May arise in consequence of any ii 234 I 1 nf h • • f he0urmary °rgan3’ iL 233> note- I«a cure by dilatation, by ulceration i ’TT “■ 235* Fre^e,lUy a“e"d^ "ith »paam., ib. Its cure’ oy ulceration, ,i 238. Occasions an increase in the strength of the bladder ii 241 on ii 246PPina^n °f CaUStiC t°’..ii- 2 ‘2’ 245’ note> 267- womem observations Sometimes reHe?eThv’, “"l"- Z Attended with spasmodic affection, ii. 249. non» r d bj a gonorrhoea, ib. Spasmodic, its treatment, ii. 250 Perma- nent, diseases in consequence of, ii. 257. Bad effects of travelling in ii 274 S/ZcZie thZ “ m0dr°f de.tectin8 those that are unsound, ii. 71, note. Experiments to “pZl ilf Aisr^plc’t "S’ "J* 2**3?* the state in which they usually remain, ii. 60. Styptics, i. 538. SUma4™T,nZ!gnin ^ebloodTrSst^te^^'0 deSCribed eXp'ainCd' L 373> 423; few.T °fth/ b?,St r.estuoratives of the k>nd we are acquainted with, ii. 445. cury, ii. 450? ^ ^ ‘tCh’ *’ 618' ItS USe in correctinK some of the effects of mer- Supernumerary teeth-, the origin of, accounted for, ii. 51. Ought to be removed ii 93 Suppress^ of urine; how relieved, ii. 2S7. Operations for tlfe cure of i? 290 "cZr!'0" ’ r t°J: U1‘ 403‘ SymPton,s of. >• 379, 411; iii. 408. What are the exteSr^ Hi 287 Td faV°UrabIe t0; Ui; 283- note- Principally occurs in the lead?f .t,P u -2 7 ’ d mUC0US canals’ '• 411 i *'*• 289. Sometimes takes the Suses of i 410 m ?e ,diffuse suPPurative inflammation, iii. 347. Causes of, i. 410, in. 404. May take place without breach of surface, iii. 410, 4*>9 441 ; and without inflammation, iii. 419. This opinion questioned, iii. 421, note sunnuratbai ^TlT’ “V 444-...Treatment of, i. 412 ; iii. 408. Treatment of, when suppuration must take place, m. 411; and also when it has taken place, iii. 416. in "V T effrC%°/’ '/e 42i' 0f its not answering the common final intention n a gonorrhoea, ii. 15.). (See 1 us, Abscess, Suppurative Inflammation.) Surfaces, secreting and nonsecreting; what they are, ii. 145. Ofthe best for absor- ption, ii. 4a7i Surgeons ; eminent, and their pupils, i. 35. College of. (See Corporation.) ; trench military, superior to the English, before the time of Hunter, iii 541 note. * '^Hunl' s,ta^ °f> before Pott, i. 13. Pott’s improvements in, ib. State of, before Susceptibility ; of impressions, i. 267; of disease, i. 301. Greater in some persons than in others, i. 304. Kinds of, i. 305. May often be known by concomitant cir- cumstances, l. 308. Sutures-, remarks on, iii. 265. Swallows ; migration of, i. 91. Swearing -, Hunter addicted to, i. 28, 52. Swelling-, in inflammation, i. 383, 397; iii. 327. White, i. 596. Sympathy; i. 371; ill. 6. May be regarded as a secondary principle, introduced into the ceconomy of the higher order of animals, i. 371. Of the stomach, ns universal as that ofthe brain, l. 248. Of the stomach with other organs, i. 245, 248, 325 • iii. 346, 429. With the mind, i. 249. Of the vital principle, i. 226, 264. Connection ®!,Pn™CCS of action> in the Iivin8 bod>’- >-318. Between different individuals, i. 320. Of natural and diseased, and their classification, i. 320; ii. 131. Constitu- tional, i. 322 ; iii. 6, 433. Certain parts sympathize more strongly than others, L 321. Of similar and dissimilar, i. 325. Between the body and mind, i. 329. Of the mind with the living principle, ib. Uses *of sympathy in the animal oeco- nomy, i. 330. Of delusion, i. 331. The cause of the disorders incident to dentition, n. 106. 1 he symptoms of, in children, often more violent than the parts immedi-671 INDEX. ately affected, ii. 107. How adults are affected by it, ib. To be cured bv local apphcations, n. 108. Partial, divided into remote, contiguous, and continuous, ii. 7A Blitween th? uretI>ra a'ld ">e cutting of a tooth, an instance of’ ii. , ’ 161. Occasions a variety .of symptoms in gonorrhcea, ii. 51, 177. i„ „onor rhma occasions sweffings in the testicles, ii. 177, 213. And in Use absorbent glands, i. 182. Sometimes cures a gleet, n. 224. Occasions affections of many parts during the use of bougies, ii. 251, 250. Between the skin and deeper-seated parts, when 497 4®oPPnrd t0 former’ '!• 399- In inflammation, i. 370; iii. 291, 388, 393, 'i-i, 433. Of repulsion, revulsion, translation, and derivation, iii. 393 Symptom i what so called, i. 310, 311, 301. Premonitory, i. 208, 311.' The know ledge of, important, i. 320. Delusive, i. 353. me know- Syncope, i. 266. Syphilis. (See Lues Venerea.) S^hthtiemdpteudo-typJuliHe diseases-, the distinction between, ii. 407 note Syst^ “USf * tW° a"d ^orpSoTmat^r, ii. , vascular; general considerations on, iii. 145. (See Heart, Arteries, Veins.) Each joint of, the seat T. Tania ; found alive in carp that have been boiled, i. 293, note of a separate ovarv, iii. 110, note. ,l,e p,indp": ot is "pp,i“u'’ui- ««• Teething, i. 324. Teeth; Hunter’s work on, i. 40, 71. The sockets for, how formed ii 3 The natural situation of, ib. The full number of, ii. 21. The sever7chsseVnf^/' Tk mcisores, n. 22. The cuspidati, ii. 23. The bicuspides iWT a ■■ The Their fangs, ii. 27. Articulation of ii M f r 2 , The grinders, n. 25. jaw, ii. 29. The cells for, how formed', ii. 32 .1°"" Cause of the pain in dentition explained ii 34 A t n ’ Toetus, n. 33. 37, note. Process of shedding described ii 43 8 p;,J f', M ,e of lonnanon, n. a communicating chord, ii. 44 note Reason nfti ^ ^ secon(l sets connected by c.vi,v fin, „P a, ' ;'r“tet «»» to grow after being completely formed ii IS tL c •> r , ley contmued 50. Supernumerary, how they original; H. Jhe ^ountedfor, ii. Whether man is proved to be a carnivorous animal by his teeth i'i 5*9 * T1 'T*’ **' they are subject to, i. 53. On thp pvt•• 1a ieein» n* The diseases 54/ Transplantation of, ii. 55 ^ deaniuS «• diseases supposed to be produced by transplamation.^i 466'483 "“t,', OI'Vener.eal produces a disease which is sometimes more difficult ’<• 4 , Transplantation Decay of, by rotting, ii. 59. iTou^intJ thL ~ 5 T° ^ ",e.venerca>> "• M. a rotten tooth has any contaminating power ib Svn *elr rott,n|> »• 62. Whether The pain of, brough/on bycircuSn^ «• G3’ vention and cure of rottenness in, ib Method, 1 ■ d'sease, »• 65. Pre- thods of stopping them where hollow, ii. 68. Decay o^bHen^lT' 6’ "'-^' Mc' hng of the fangs described, ii. 71. The natlTLs^ t n,U' ,0’ Swel‘ Treatmentof, ii. 75, and note. Incrustation of «t“ d CaUSCS °f gum"boils> »• 72. chanical methods of removing, ii. 87. Chemicaln®.ous.,nal‘ter “I'0", ii. 85. Me- in the position of, to what owing, ii. 88 The onorati llcat'ons to» «*• Irregularity ii. 90. Cautions as to the extr^tionof thosetC 7v,nF described, rectifying what is called the rabbit-mouth ib The nrline8”I1'-91' Met,lod of them, ii. 95. Consequence of deferring theoperation lnd'ca“ons for drawing the performance, ib. Instructions for the LnsplanUUon of U%7 D,reclio,,s Tor Temperament, i. 307. (Sec Susceptibility.) P ° 0,» 97’ Temperature. (See Animal Heat. Clmate.) VOL. III. 2 xINDEX. 672 Temporal muscle j description and use of, ii. 9. Tendo Achillis; rupture of, i. 34, 264, 436, 438. Tendons; injuries of, i. 439. Testis-, descent of, i. 18. Anatomy of, ib. Pulpy j the diagnosis between and hydro- cele, i. 459, 468. Scrofulous, i. 469, 594, 597. Cancerous, i. 629. Seldom asso- ciated with hydrocele, i. 469. Swelling of, arises from sympathy in gonorrhaia, ii. 179, 213, 320. Swelled, symptoms of, ii. 179. Its treatment, ii. 212. Swelling of, is not venereal, ii. 179, 212. This opinion questioned, ii. 182, note. Sometimes produced by the gout, ii. 182. Affected sympathetically from the use of bougies, ii. 251, 256. Of the decay of, ii. 311, 315 ; iii. 533. Tetanus, i. 324, 583 ; iii. 437. In animals, i. 584. Causes of, i. 585 ; iii. 431. Treat- ment of, i. 587. Thackrah, Mr.; his explanation of the milky appearance of the blood, iii. 55, note. Thomas, Mr.; his anecdotes of Hunter, i. 114. Thomson, Dr. J., iii. 410. Thought-, the importance of established habits of, i. 277. Throats-, venereal sore, described, ii. 415, note. Tic Douloureux; the periodic character of, distinguishes those cases which arise from constitutional causes from those which arise from the teeth, ii. 85, note. Tickling-, a peculiar mode of sensation, i. 262. Tiedemann and Gmelin, i. 295. Tiger-, Mr. Hunter’s purchase of, i. 29. Time-, Hunter’s distribution of, i. 53. His great economy of, ib. Tissue erectile; structure of, i. 251. Tissues elementary; endowed with life and the powers of reproduction and reparation in very different degrees, iii. 271, 527, notes. (See Structure.) Tommasini, Sig., iii. 388, note. Tongue; state of, in disease, i. 363. Ulcers of, are seldom venereal, ii. 398. Tonsils; venereal ulcers of, description of, ii. 413, 415, note. Tumefaction of, ib. Ex- coriation of, ii. 414, 458. Toothache; is caused by the exposure of the nerve of the tooth to the air, ii. 50, 53. How to stop a hollow tooth, ii. 54. Method of burning the nerve, ii. 6G. Other modes of treatment, ib. Cautions in relation to nervous pains in the jaws, ii. 84. Instructions for the drawing of teeth, ii. 95. Torpedo ; anatomy of the, i. 40. Torpor and Sleep; the difference between, i. 286. Digestion suspended during the former, ib. Torsion; of arteries, is an unsafe substitute for the ligature, i. 540, note. Toryism; Hunter’s, i. 121. Touch; the sense of, common to all the organs of the senses, i. 261. Trail, Dr., iii. 55, note. Trances, iii. 32, note. (See Swoons.) Transformations j of structure, are supposed by some to be referrible to inflammation, iii. 533, note. Transfusion, i. 541. History of, iii. 13, note. Translation ; of disease, iii. 388, 395. Transplantation of teeth; facility of this operation, ii. 55. Successful performance of, ii. 80. General remarks on, ii. 97. Necessary attentions to the state of the gums and sockets, ib. In what cases dead teeth are preferable to living ones, ii. 98. In what cases it ought not to be attempted, ib. Ought not to be attempted on persons while taking of mercury, ib. The proper age for the performance of, ii. 99. Direc- tions for the choice of scion teeth, ib. Of replacing a sound tooth when drawn by mistake, ii. 100. Successful instance of replaced teeth, ii. 101. Of dead teeth, Hr How teeth are to be fixed and tied, ii. 102. How the patient is to conduct himself, ii. 103. Accidents to which transplanted teeth arc liable, ii. 103, 466, 483, 488. Evidences of a living union between transplanted teeth and their sockets, tb. I he Dangers of, i. 495, practice of, reprobated, ii. 56, 104, notes. Trephine; the operation of, when required, i. 492, 494, 496, notes, note. Trout Gillaroo, i. 50. Truncated teeth ; a peculiar appearance of, ii. 71, note. . Tubercles ; i. 567. Venereal, description of, ii. 410, note. Ulcerating, resemble rupia, ii. 415, note.673 INDEX. 1 umours; general observations on, L 314, 566. Origin of, i. 367, 559, 567, notes. Re- .noval of i ob7, 569. Encysted, i. 567, note, 57 I, 874. Bony, i. 570. Cuticuiar, '• ..V1 ,V'e euuls> fequire the extraction of stumps or diseased teeth, ii. 76, note. Horny, m. 632. * r'\T'r\ 1>r‘ ;„°n tlie coagulation of albumen, iii. 49, note. On the orterialization of the blood, in. 96, note. Turpentine; the styptic powers of, i. 483, 539 ; ii. 335. U. v£Zf7'!‘ fS’ 42r8;jii- 459> 473> 483- (See Ulcerative Inflammation, Absorption.) S lSS’i1'" ' Irritable, i. 553. Indolent, i. 557. The causes whfch re- V'enerea1’ of the naturc of> >'• 382. Phagadenic, ii. 324, note, .ga enic, description ot, it. 347, note. The secondary symptoms from this kind 7d;ntrafab‘e, ”-.348, note. Of the tonsils, description of, ii. 413 307; tu. 34, 118, 238. The uses of, i. 368. Is not at- nroJef W7,Sympa,thctIC fever iii. 249. Of the period after which it would be iru- 253- •0f,t!.,e COa«UliUin« lyraPh er bond of union, . - , note, 34J. Of the time required for this process, iii. 255, 346. Practical tf 2? reSP.eCt‘ne; 7 257> ls probab|y not effected, as Mr. Hunter supposed Of stfenorh T,?a'Um ?!the bl00d’ 7* by coagnIable lymph, iii. 43, 132, 267, notes! not take^la and W!f ne-S’ I" fac,Iltating or retarding this process, iii. 280. Does : ekeofP r.8retln,,C!,-,n dr°Pslcal Pe°Ple. tb. Is sometimes destroyed in conse- quence of constitutional diseases, as scurvy and mercury, ii. 432, note - iii 487 Ure, Dr.,- on the red colour of the blood, in!59, note. ’ Urea ; in the blood, i. 352, note. Uredo Nivalis; grows and flowers under the snow, i. 293, note. ii. 299?d ***** 5 a<FeCted in “ Sonorrlioea, ii. 179. Of the distension of the ureters, a dlS0.rder ?.f’ was produced by dentition, ii. 110. Ulcers in the ii U5« a -n ! Souorrhoea, ii. 158, 232. A short liistory relative to that subject' son!/.?• A,? lnstancf °J ,ts syinPat*dsing with the cutting of a tooth? i 161 Is structions of, the different kinds of’ b Prru °bs,erVat,0"s 7 1,8 uses> ”• 22S- Ob- Lacuna; of H e .r° ’ . iarts of the, most subject to stricture, ii. 230. lions which take place in‘tha"^IfanaMi ‘Son DiffL'rCnt kinds of obstruc- the side of the urethra by bougies .’ ti.'„ ,r ' metln>es a new passage is made along Enlargement of ii 257 * >, o' ’ ^ treatment and cure of that accident, ii. 258. ii. 264, 266. Abscesses nea^Bw 'Th** partS sUn'0,,nd?ng the, treatment of, tions of the, ii. 273 The"?“use ^ SP:lsm°dic a«’cc- cure, ii.; the use ofcanAaX in ^ And hi"u"' l ^ala,fia,of- 2™; its ii. 284 Inrnnvpnlonoao i • i ^ , An“ ladder contract and relax alternatelv ii. 285. Their treatment' th®s® acJions do not take place regularly,’ Urine; state of?!n d “ ’i. 362 a! "® °f> th.C d *chatge of’ iL 302. y’ for bleeding, i, 405. Coagulation of hvT011!’ p 52’ n0te.’.. AfPords an indication alkaline by mercurv ii 207 nl, f> by Go.ulard’s extract, iii. 52, note. Rendered Of a new passage formed for the' fi'S T, f thegenera! strength, ii. 208, note, (used into the cellular membrane of the vr ! *n*8chlef it occasions by being dif- Description of an operation to prevent itTneighbouring parts, ii. 259. suppressions of ii 260 9<m v . ’ -bO. lobe drawn oft frequently in °%!r re'-icVed' 287‘ R^o" of! opium in, ii. 294. Should never lie rei iine’l ^UPpr,es5'°" ° ’.tbe HSC °r calomel mid Uterus; tubercles of, i. 568. Hydatids of, i. 5y3ength °f ,llL“ bladlk‘r’ "• 301. I alvcs ; of arteries, iii. 202. Uuriolu. (see Smallpox.) V. Of the heart, construction of, iii. 179. (Sec Heart.) 2x2674 INDEX. Vascular system. (See System.) Vascularity, of coagulated blood, i. 236, 238, 368,430; lii. 34, 115,119, 243, 268, note, 350. Ot granulations, i. 427 ; iii. 492. Of parts, is in proportion to the duty they have to perform, i. 383; iii. 99, 199. Of the teeth, ii. 18, note. Is greater in pro- portion in the feetus than in the adult, iii. 213. Vegetable food; its tendency to keep the teeth clean, ii. 51. Vegetables ; nutrition of, i. 215. Composition of, i. 216. Exist under great ranges of temperature, i. 293. Compared with animals, i. 329. The reason why the sap of, does not freeze at low temperatures, iii. 107. Their tendency to the surface ex- plained, iii. 285. Vegetations, fibrinous, iii. 30, note. f eins •, described, i. 250; iii. 221. Inflammation of, Hunter’s paper on, i. 91; iii. 319, 581, notes. Varicose, i. 560. Valves of, iii. 223. Anastomosis of, iii. 225. Cause of the unintermittent current in, iii. 227. Pulsation of, iii. 228. How far they assist the general circulation, iii. 229, note. Vena porta -, instances in which it did not terminate in the liver, iii. 86, note. Venereal disease-, Hunter’s work on, i. 101. Contains many theoretical doctrines, ii. 125; and hasty generalizations, ii. 129. Is full, however, of practical observations of the highest value, ib. (See Disease.) matter, is changed by absorption, i. 257. J enesection; the use of, i. 402. Effects of, i. 537. In phthisis, ib. In gonorrlnrn, ii. 205. In chordee, ii. 210. Seldom proper in specific inflammations, i. 609. The first blood which flows is the darkest, iii. 91. Rules for its employment, i. 404 ; iii. 374, 376. Sometimes followed by increased quickness and hardness of the pulse, iii. 362. 1 Ventricles-, case of communication between the, iii. 83. Contract together, iii. 194. Vesicula seminales; their use, ii. 175. Are seldom diseased, ii. 283. Of the discharge of the secretion of, ii. 302. Mucus of, the distinction between it and the semen, ii. 164. Vessels, blood; general observations on, iii. 195. Actively dilate in inflammation, iii. 321. This opinion questioned, iii. 327, note. Of the formation of new, in coagu- lable lymph, iii. 350. State of in inflammation, iii. 268, note. (See Vascular system, Vascularity, Arteries, Veins, &c.) Veterinary College, established, i. 125. Vipers ; the bite of, i. 615. An observation on its poison, ii. 164. Vines, Mr., iii. 40, note. Vita propria, of Blumenbacli, iii, 123, note. Vinification, i. 215, 230, 231. Voice, how affected by the teeth, ii. 51. Volition, i. 260. Is lost during sleep, i. 334. Vomits-, their use in swelled testicle, ii. 164. In resolving buboes, ii. 370; iii. 417. Voyages-, recommended in phthisis, i. 597. In scrofula, i. 598. YV. Wadd, Mr. IV., i. 29. IVardrop, Mr.; case by, in which a very extensive surface was healed by scabbing, iii. 263, note. Warner, Mr., i. 25. Warts, i. 568. Venereal, their treatment, ii. 351. Watson, Mr. II., anecdote of YY’illiam Hunter, i. 5. Discovers the tubuli testis, i. 18. On the Gillaroo trout, i. 50. Weakness. (See Strength.) seminal; its cause, ii. 309. The use of opium in, ii. 310. Its cure, ii. 311. Weather; the state of, affects the spirits, i. 611. Wens, i. 567. Westminster Abbey ; Mrs. Hunter’s wish to erect a monument in, to Hunter, i. 133. White swelling, i. 596. White's New South Wales, i. 118. Whitloes, i. 425 ; iii. 486. Much more painful than other inflammations, ib. Will, Hunter's ; i. 137. Wilton, Dr., iii. 5, note. Williams, Dr. C. J. 11., on the arterialization of the blood, iii. 96, note.675 INDEX. fPilUti circle of, use of, iii, 208. Wind; the Sirocco, i. 291, note. The Harmettan, j. 297. Wine; of its use in mortification, lii. 8. Women more affected by the imagination than men, i. 360. noodville, Dr., iii. 5, note. fVZldli <*'v'8'on°f> '• 388 j iii. 210. Which communicate externally, i. 390; iii 251 Which do not communicate externally, i. 388 ; iii. 240. Of the different modes of treating, ill. 251, 257. Of the brain, i. 487, 492, note. State of, affected by the atmosphere, i. 297. And by the constitution, iii. 239. ~~~> gunshot, iii, 541. Difference between and common wounds, iii. 542. Kinds of, in. 547. Treatment of, iii. 548, 576. The impropriety of enlarging, iii. 548. 1 enetraung, of the abdomen, iii. 559. Penetrating, of the chest, iii. 566. Y. Yawning, an effect of sympathy, i. 321. I aws; case of a gentleman infected with, li. 382. Description of, ii. 472. EXD OP THB THIRD VOLUME. PRINTED BY RICHARD AND JOHN E. TAYLOR, RED LION COURT, PLEET STREET.) 1/R/6?