16 SURGERY IN BENGAL. authority to whom we are indebted for the most elaborate account of this important subject in both its pathological and surgical bearings. His experience was chiefly gained in the treatment of the wounded of the French-Italian war, who were sent to Toulon for treatment—all, consequently, cases’of disease or injury of some standing; and the results of his ob- servation and treatment are interesting in the highest degree : for they not only establish the recognition of the disease as a formidable result of operations on bone and of injuries, such as those inflicted by gun-shot wounds in bone, but they point to the necessity of thoroughly re-considering the question of amputation, and fully, in my opinion, tend to confirm the view that the site of the amputation has, not less than the time at which it is performed, much to say to the mortality. M. Legouest tells us that at the Hospital of Dolma Batche in Constantinople, out of 639 cases of amputation, M. Salleron lost 224, or little less than one-fourth. The amputa- tions in the continuity of the bone were 490, resulting in 192 deaths from purulent infection of 1 in 21’2. The disarticula- tions, in number 149, resulted in 32 deaths, or 1 in 42'3. M. J. Roux records, in his practice in St. Maundrier, the following remarkable success in the treatment of serious eases of gun-shot injuries requiring amputation, all being secondary amputations. 4 Hip-joint,, ... successful 13 Shoulder „ 1 3 1 ... ditto Knee ,, ... ditto Ankle „ ... ditto Metacarpo Phalangial ditto A series of 22 successful disarticulations, 20 of which fol- lowed gun-shot injuries of bones. Now it is perfectly clear that this extraordinary "success is due to something more than the skill of the Surgeon, the advantages of the Hospital, or other local conditions in which the patients were placed; and I think the evidence is strongly in favour of the fact that disarticulation is frequently a safer method of amputation than section of the injured bone, and also, that in cases where the bone is affected from local en- demic causes, it is a clear indication that removal of the bone so diseased is desirable—That, after amputations, they have this