STJEQERY IN BENGAL. 9 The causes of increased mortality after surgical operations are a matter of the greatest interest, and one that might profitably be made the subject of a lecture; but I propose now to consider only one of these (an important one), as the limits of this address do not admit of more. Let me now ask your attention to some of these details. The statistics that I refer to are of the 2nd half of 1863, and the information has been collected from the official Re- turns of the various stations which have been placed at my disposal by the kindness of Mr. 'H. Macpherson. I do not profess to have made a complete record of all that has occurred, but enough to give an approximative idea of the extent and nature of the work done. In many of the sta- tions the Surgeons are graduates of this College and natives of Bengal,—a glance at the table will thus show how widely spread our graduates are over India. I have in the first place a list of 180 stations and their Hospitals or Dispensaries, with the number and nature of certain of the principal operations performed in each. In the second I have a resume of the whole, an abstract vide Table in page 8, which shows, among other things, how largely the operation of lithotomy prevails in the Punjab and North- West, as contrasted with Bengal. Thus, in Bengal, there were sixty-eight cases of lithotomy with eight deaths, or one death in 8-5 cases. In the North-West and Punjab, five hundred and fifty-five cases with fifty-seven deaths, or one death in 9‘9. In Bengal forty-six cases of scrotal tumour with two deaths. In the North-West and Punjab only one case of ditto, and that recovered. I have not attempted,—for, indeed I have not had leisure to do so,—to gather from these returns the details of the opera- tions they record. That is to say, I have not tabulated the precise nature, variety, locality of each operation, or what great master’s proceedings have in individual cases been followed. I have merely recorded a general account of the great t>pera- tions en masse, and it would be a matter of no small interest to compare the record with similar ones from European IIos- b