SURGERY IN BENGAL. 17 tendency, in certain cases, to become diseased, there can be no doubt, and, in certain places, and under certain conditions, this tendency is more strongly marked than in others. It has long foroed itself upon my attention in this Hospital as one of the most frequent sources of purulent infection and consequent mortality from which we suffer. I would be understood that it is not to the disarticulation^ as such, that I attribute the success in all cases, nor do I urge the operation always in preference to section of the bone of the next segment of the limb. In the cases of the hip and shoulder, disarticulation, of course, alone is practi- cable; whereas in the leg and fore-arm, the. respective advant- ages of disarticulation at the elbow or knee may fairly be questioned; and I have no hesitation in saying it is my opi- nion that, except in cases of endemic tendency to Osteo- Myelitis, section of the Humerus or Femur, in their lower third, is as good, if not a better operation than disarticula- tion. The great point to be attained is removal of the whole of the suppurating bone; of course, whenever the endemic ten- dency to Osteo-Myelitis prevails in a Hospital, this disarticu- lation, though, in itself, inferior as an operation to section of the bone (according to my view in the case of the elbow and knee), would be preferred to amputation through the bone, as the fresh bone-wound might, under the endemic influence, give rise to an attack of Osteo-Myelitis. The points of interest in M. Roux^s treatment are, that by disarticulating, he anticipates the chance of Osteo- Myelitis, by not opening the cancellated tissue of the bone (in ordinary wounds); and that in cases where it has set in, he removes the source of blood contamination by the ablation of the affected bone. I have no intention of discussing the question of the general application of the term Osteo-Myelitis in the wide sense m which it is given to the chronic form of disease by the French Surgeons, and which involve a whole series of patho- logical changes in bone, in which the necessity of immediate amputation, is, at all events, not concerned. But it is to the ^ sort of erysipelatous form, an analogue ot diffuse suppuration in the areolar tissue, that I refer,—a disease, so far as I have seen it, so extensive, as regards the bone c