7 SUKGERY IN BENGAL. filshion, but up to the most recent state of European know- ledge, and with an intelligent appreciation of the rapid strides that are daily being made in pathology and thera- peutics : holding the responsible charges of civil stations and dispensaries, performing the most difficult and danger- ous operations of surgery, with success that tells of the care with which they have fitted themselves for the duty. And it is to be borne in mind that each of these Surgeons, whether he be European or Asiatic, in addition to the duties of his Civil Hospital and Dispensary, commands by his private practice an influence on a large circle of the native community, so extensive indeed, that, in the remotest parts of the least inhabited provinces, European Surgery is respected as some- thing, at all events, to resort to in cases of difficulty and danger. And in many parts of the country it has so thoroughly gained the confidence of the population, that they throng to the Medical Officer for advice and assistance. Different localities, aecording to the province in which they are situated, have acquired notoriety for special forms of surgical disease. What Elephantiasis is among the rice-eating population of damp Lower Bengal, Calculus is to the wheat- eating inhabitants of the dry north-west; and the extent to which these diseases are cured or alleviated you may form some notion from the records I shall lay before you. I have, with some labour, made out a list of 180 stations in the Bengal Presidency in which Surgeons are stationed, and though it is but an approximation to the actual state of things, yet it will serve to show to some extent how far surgical practice is known. I have not had leisure to analyse or tabulate the results of these documents very closely, but sufficiently to illustrate the operations and by them the class of cases most met with in different parts of India. You will observe that whilst some are abundant, such as lithotomy, removal of^ tumours, and amputations; others, such as exci- sions of joints, ligature of arteries, for Aneurism, are rare. It also serves to show, roughly, the mortality after opera- tions, and, as might be expected, that it is larger in cities and great Hospitals than in the Mofussil and the smaller Hospitals.