SURGERY IN BENGAL. 11 But, with all its defects, this Hospital must ever be re- garded with the greatest interest, for it has long and justly- enjoyed the reputation of being the Surgical Hospital of Calcutta, and it has been the scene of some of the greatest surgical triumphs achieved by our best Surgeons (such as Martin and Webb) in India. The General Hospital, vastly better situated and possessing man}'- advantages over the Chandney,'’’’ both in construction and locality, is utterly defective in structure, and wanting in what, in these days, are justly regarded as essentials in Hospital arrangement and construction. Perhaps more as a Medical than as a Surgical Hospital has this excellent Institution^been distinguished; but it is rvorthy of remark that here the first operations for the radical cure of Inguinal Hernia were per- formed in 1856, according to Gerdy^s method, by the late Mr. Bedford, and in 1859 according to Wiitzer^s plan, by Mr. Scriven, the present Professor of Surgery in Lahore. Here, also, within the last few years, the external Iliac artery was tied by Dr. Brougham; the same operation, I might re- mark, having also been performed with permanent success in the Chandney Hospital about the same period by the late Surgeon Allan Webb. It does not come within the scope of my subject to de- scribe the labours of the many distinguished Medical Officers who have been attached to this Hospital and left their con- tributions to Indian Pathology as a guide to those who have come after them; but we can hardly mention the General Hospital without recalling the names of Twining, Macphex'son, and Hare. As to our own magnificent building, the Medical College Hospital, so grand as a work of architecture, and yet so detective as a Hospital, what can I say more than that, whilst in some respects it is equal to the first, in others it is defective with the worst Hospitals in Europe! It would ill become me to judge this noble building or cri- ticize the designs of its spirited founders by the standard of recent Hospital architectural design. It was constructed with the greatest liberality and with every attention to solidity, goodness, and comfort. Its magnificent wards or halls, the spacious dispensary and operating theatre, indicate that the