SlIEGEKY IN BENGAL. 10 pitals, and to trace out the causes of greater or less mortality or success. However such comparison might I'esult, one thing is sure, that we have a mass of facts to deal with—the subject of much profitable study. Before I speak of the special subject to which I desire to direct your attention this evening, I wish, as it has an import- ant bearing on the mattei*, to make a few remarks on the Hospitals themselves. I fear it is not in my power to say anything that can be considered encouraging on this subject. The Hospitals of Calcutta were built before Hospital construction had received the scientific consideration to which it has been deemed enti- tled of late years ; and though we have more than one noble Institution, we cannot strictly be said to have really one good Hospital. The Chandney” Hospital, situated in the most crowded, and probably unhealthy centre of the city, is a low one-storied building, on the ground floor, capable of containing a large number of patients; but it is ill-constructed, shut in by surrounding buildings, and imperfectly ventilated, for such must be the case with buildings constructed on the plan of this Hospital, where the wards intercommunicate, and where the inner atmosphere of the building is common to each. Such an arrangement is altogether at variance with the modern idea of the ward unit, which should contain only a limited number of patients, be isolated, and thoroughly aired by cross ventilation. The recent addition of an ujiper-storied building, the dwelling house of former Surgeons of the Hos- pital, in which traumatic and other cases of importance are placed, and where operations of magnitude are performed, has, I am told, diminished the death rate, and rendered success more frequent than formerly. The Returns of other years, I have been informed, indicate gangrene as the most frequent cause of death after surgical operations and accidents in this Hospital, and very discourag- ing and disheartening it must have been to the Surgeons who have had charge of the Institution to see their best efforts frustrated by this pest of Hospitals, this jilague which owes its existence to, what, I believe, we must confess, though it be to our discredit, are removable causes.