SURGEEY IN BENGAL. 18 it aiFects, that it causes its entire destruction, and speedily, if not removed, gives rise to that septic condition of the blood which results fatally in a large number of cases, and where, after death, the evidences of the blood-poison are seen in structural changes in the viscera of the most interest- ing nature. These I will presently describe. It is to this point in the pathology of the disease that I would especially call attention, for, grievous as the injury of the bone is when it becomes the seat of this acute suppuration, it is not the mere local mischief that one dreads, although that may cause the loss of the limb. It is the constitutional disease to which it gives rise, and the consequent morbid condition of the blood, which is, I believe, if once thoroughly established, and not pi’omptly dealt with, certain to entail fatal results, that we must consider the great source of danger. It is, then, not only to the disease, acute suppuration in the cancellated tissue, involving the whole bone and causing its rapid dis- organization, but it is also to the treatment by which I believe, if the disease be early recognized, life may be pre- served, that I would caU attention, and it involves a question of amputation of the greatest importance, which I think I have satisfied myself in my own experience, as well as by the results of M. Jules Roux^s practice, is deserving of the consideration of every Surgeon. It is, indeed, not less than it was pronounced to be by the Baron Larrey,—a system which, if it could be adopted without control, would be, so to speak, to revolutionize the Surgery of amputations.'’^ It is not, I need hardly say, to be adopted without control, but to be carefully considered and applied in fitting cases. It is a doctrine that will thus be the salvation of many lives which otherwise would be lost. It appears to me that if I give a brief account of the symptoms of the disease, and the pathological phenomena both in life and after death, illustrating them by the detail of successful and fatal cases, that I shall be best disposing of the time left, for, indeed, I have already occupied you too long. I would also say something on the treatment both pro- phylactic and curative, endeavouring to point out the occa- sion when amputation is needed. I would further request your attention to the pathological changes in fatal eases, and these I have the means of illustrating to a certain extent