SURGERY IN BENGAL. 29 knee-joint by a kick from a horse; the joint was opened. Amputation at the lower third of the thigh was performed early on the morning of the 12th April. Oil the '\'z>th it is noted that the interior of the stump is exposed, the end of the hone denuded of periosteum, and the medulla discolored. Pulse 100. Feverish. Oil the a prohe passed into the medulla,* detected dead and putrid hone with pus. But no well marked consti- tutional symptoms, except pulse of 100. No diarrhoea. Ap- petite fair. Soft parts of stump quite healthy. On the 215^ mischief extending; long prohe passes down to the head of the hone in the suppurating medulla. Pulse 104. Vlnd.—Pulse 120. Fever in evening. V6rcl.—Pulse 130; very excitable; quickens easily. Has diarrhoea. ''l^:th.—Pulse 140. Feverish. Tongue moist, hut smooth. Prohe passes down to the head of the hone and causes pain there. Diarrhoea continues, peculiar muscular tremors, rales in chest with cough. No hepatic tenderness. Amputated at hip-joint by antero posterior flaps. Divided the bone just below the trochanter, but as pus oozed from the cancellse, I at once removed it. His pulse, I should observe, was 150 when the operation commenced. He remained in a very critical state for some days after the operation, but the pulse gradually came down. The tem- peratuie decreased; diarrhcea disappeared; tongue improved, and strength returned. On the 28th, for example, it is noted that the pulse is 140; temperature in axilla 102. On the 3rd May the femoral ligature came away. Ther- mometer 98, pulse 128. Chest sounds are better; rales less sonorous. Moist rale in upper right chest less crepitant. All this time he was well fed and supplied with port- wine. It is not necessary to trouble you with the daily details, sulhcicnt that he made gradual progress towards recoverv and a sinus, which was the last indication of the wound^ contracted and had perfectly closed by the 31st July He WM d,sch,irgc(l cured on that day, and is now in robust health, employed as a tailor in the Hospital.