22 SURGERY IN BENGAL. indicate the important chang-es taking place; though, I must confess, that I have occasionally in the worst cases failed to detect any one of these. The pathological changes found after death are very in- teresting, and are described in the pos^ mortem of a fatal case, I will presently relate. The changes in the urine during the disease are also worthy of note; though on this part of the pathology more information is needed. I have the notes of the state of the urine for some days during the life of one patient, for which I am indebted to Baboo Kany Lall Dey. The sp. gr. varied from 1004 to 1015, the re-action gene- rally alkaline; urates increased. Traces of albumen and granular casts at times. And an excessive amount of chlorides, from *4 to 2‘4 in an ounce; and of sulphuric acid, from ’446 to 1‘031 in an ounce. The treatment.—Prevention here is indeed better than cure. The former may be accomplished; the latter, when the disease has thoroughly established itself, is, to say the least, very rare. The preventive measures are all such as are included in the great questions of Hospital hygiene,—free ventilation, good food, and segregation of patients. Osteo-Myelitis occurs no doubt, like other diseases of the same genus, more readily where numbers are crowded together, and where the ventilation and other sanitary arrangements are also defective. The disease is also at times epidemic; It has visited Hospitals for a time and passed away, like erysipelas or gangrene, as was the case in the Hotel Dieu in 1814, where it caused great mortality after amputations. It is more or less endemic, as in our own Hospital, and how far it is due here to insanitation I am not prepared to offer an opinion, but I have already said that I think it is at least as much due to the people as to the Hospital, and I can say that no efforts have been spared to remove all local causes of disease. Wherever sanitaiy arrangements are good, with pure air, good food, space large, and, above all, where the patients are not overcrowded, the conditions exist which are unfavorable to the occurrence of the disease.