23 SURGERY IN BENGAL. As to treatment, the earlier the disease is recognized, the more likely is any treatment to be successful. When the pulse quickens, and rigors occur, when the dis- charge begins to assume an ichorous and unhealthy character; when, on examination, the bone proves to be denuded of periosteum and the medullary cavity filled with dead bone and pus, I am satisfied that the sooner amputation at, or above, the next joint is had recourse to, the better is the chance of saving the patient^s life. The danger is of waiting too long, long enough for the blood poison, or the capillary embolism, to have brought about changes in the viscera, which are the precursors, if not the cause, of death. On the earliest appearance of these symptoms after an amputation or injury of bone, the sooner the bone is tho- roughly examined the better, and the conditions I have described being detected, the sooner amputation at or above the next joint follows, the better also. As to the use of internal remedies I have little to say, none, so far as my experience goes, have any eflPect. The Tine. Ferri Sesquichloridi, Port Wine, Quinine, and, according to Polli, the Sulphites, have been freely used; but to none of them have I been able to asciibe any curative effect. Beyond supporting the strength, removing the source of the toxaemia by amputation or excision of the bone, and the adminis- tration of preparations of iron with stimulants, I know of no hope or chance of saving life; and when the lungs or liver have become affected, it is indeed small. I cannot say recovery is impossible, for, indeed, if the sjonp- toms be early observed, and prompt measures had recourse to, before the blood-poisoning have advanced too far, 1 believe it may and does occur; and the case I shall relate to you, in which recovery followed secondary amputation, is one in point. Youth and vigorous constitution, aided by early removal of the diseased bone, no doubt, were the chief causes of recovery. In those cases where collections of pus form external to the cavities, as in the joints,or under the superficial muscles, early evacuation of the pus and careful support by nutrients and stimulants, with change of air and other improvements in the hygienic state of the patient, may bring about recovery, but in cases of toxaemia from Osteo-Myelitis, the tendency