14 SURGERY IN BENGAL. at Dacca as an example of progress and improvement. The premature and untimely loss of the distinguished Surgeon who so lately died there in the execution of his duty, during a cholera epidemic, to which he fell a victim, worn out by his unceasing attention to the sufferers, is fresh in our memory, and deeply and truly do we mourn in the loss of Dr. Simpson that of one of the greatest Surgeons India ever saw. The Hospitals of the Mofussil stations generally, however defective or primitive they may be,—and doubtless they are so in the smaller stations,—yet have the great advantage of country air and freedom from the contamination of city miasmata. The Surgeons, also, have the great advantage of healthier subjects to deal with, more vigor, higher vitality— a difference just as great in India, as it is between the citizen and rustic in England. However far it may be true that the healthy, simple living native of the Mofussil is peculiarly tolerant of surgical operation and injuries, and capable of the most marvellous recoveries from severe and dangerous wounds, I must demur to the extension of this theory to the inha- bitants of large cities, and Calcutta in particular. In fact, ; so far from being favourable subjects for surgical operations, ' I regard them as quite the reverse, and feel assured that, to . the Surgeon who has had the opportunity of treating serious wounds or operations in the rustic native, the difference ! must be as remarkable as discouraging. When I say that I do i not believe the Hospitals of Calcutta can record three sue- ' cessful cases of amputation of the thigh in as many years, < I am not so much reflecting on the hygiene of the Hospitals as on the locality, and the subjects who are admitted into the Hospitals for treatment. Statistics will, I think, confirm what I say, and though it is true that Hospital construction ' may have something to say to this high mortality, yet I feel convinced it is due more to the people and the place than to the i Hospitals. It would be a curious subject to consider and in- vestigate why the same class of people should suffer from one i. form of diseases in one hospital, from others in another. Why, ’ for example. Gangrene should have infected one, whilst Pyaemia ; has troubled others ; such differences, no doubt, are fairly tr^e- able to local influences, and maybe due to defective sanitation, / which is capable of amelioration. But that either of the.>^e forms of disease should occur at all to the extent to which