SURGERY IN BENGAL. 30 This case I regard as very interesting, the indications of blood contamination were so clear. The amputation at the hip-joint appears to have been only just in time to remove the source of blood poisoning; the youth of the patient en- abled him to throw off the ill effects of the toxiemic condition to which he had been reduced. In all respects, therefore, this case is an interesting one, and, as I think, illustrates fairly the advantage of re-amputation, when the bone has become the seat of Osteo-Myelitis. I have yet two other cases, which I would ask your atten- tion to for a moment before concluding. Case 3. Patienffs name Golam Alii; male; aged 20; Mussulman; syce; was admitted into the Medical College Hospital on the 2nd September 1863, 2 p. m., with a vertical wound about three inches long on the right shin. The right leg also was severely bruised. Two small bruises on the anterior aspect of each of his knees, and one on the external aspect of each of his ankles; no fracture of bones. The bruised tissues began to slough, and on the 9th Sep- tember the sloughing had increased, the tibia was exposed and denuded, but not dead. From the evening of this day he had fever, without shivering, for three or four days. The fever left him, and on the 17th the ulcer looked healthy, there was no fever, and the denuded bone was covered with healthy granulations. On the 19th he complained of some pain in the ulcer, but was otherwise the same; had an attack of fever on the 28th; on the 30th the ulcer was healthy; a scale of bone necrosed, but not yet exfoliated; the patient very much emaciated and countenance somewhat anxious; had another attack of fever on the evening of 30th; complained of pain in the chest. On the morning of the 2nd October it was reported that he had fever last evening; pulse 130 ; increase of temperature in the right knee-joint; tongue moist, is slightly feverish; appetite poor; is thirsty. The fever returned almost every day at evening, and on 5th October some abscesses were detected in the right leg, one on