SURGERY IN BENGAL. 26 He lost about eight ounces of blood, as the vessels were all en- larged and numerous. This occurred on the 21st November. On the 23rd .November it is noted that he was doing well, still rather feverish, but pulse quicker than before the opera- tion. tWi November.—Pulse rapid, 130; cough troublesome; the stumj) somewhat swollen, and the discharge profuse. He has been ordered the Hyposulphite* of Soda, grs. xv, every three hours. Last night he had a sudden and violent rigor ; this was followed by sharp fever and sweating. Several ligatures have come away. He takes beef tea and port wine. I have noted that I fear the prognosis is unfavourable, and that his con- stitution is too far affected to justify amputation at the shoulder joint. 28^/i November.—“He has had repeated rigors, with _ ^ ^ „ rapid pulse in the intervals of Quoted rrom report 01 case. p ^ ji ^ p n ^ a the lever that lollowed. Tremors of the muscular system, occasional cough, respira- tion somewhat hurried. I have no doubt changes are taking place in the viscera, but there is neither abnormal thoracic sound nor abdominal pain. Srd December.—He is low, pulse rapid, the rigors and fever still continue, soft parts of the stump, up to this time healthy, now do not look so well. The bone, on examination, proves to be less diseased than I expected. The medulla pro- truding still bleeds, the periosteum is stiU adherent to the greater part of the end of the bone. There is slight diarrhoea, he takes in consequence Tinct. Opii min. x, with each dose of the Hyposulphite. He is to take stimulants frequently. Aith December.—He died last night; having become, sud- denly, much worse, he sunk from exhaustion. * According to the theory of Polli, of Milan, that sulphurous acid pre- vents or arrests the putrefactive metamorphosis of animal tissues and fluids, and that the action of the sulphites would cause resistance to the catalytic action and operation of morbid poison, which (as in this case) would induce an unnatural rapidity of putrefaction. He says that the sulphites, when given internally, are absorbed, and exert their specific action upon the blood and tissues. Vide British Medical Journal, October 1st, 1861, page 388. Mr. Spencer Well’s Lecture.