SUBGEKY IN BENGAL. 20 of other wounds treated in the same wards and under similar local influences, indicate that the hygienic conditions, gene- rally, are favourable, I am unable to say, or why the vascular highly-organized tissue of the medulla, and the cancellated portions of the bone, should take on this diseased action, and rapidly degenerate into a putrid mass of pus and caries, whilst the muscles and other tissues that were divided at the same time, are still healthy, and the general health of the patient and those about him is good (until compromised by blood contamination), I know not; but I have frequently seen that such is the case, and I have frequently detected at the bottom of a sinus in the otherwise healthy stump, dead bone, which, when exposed, presented not only necrosis of the surface, but also death of the medulla, which, if not speedily removed, would have been, and in some eases has been, the cause of death. The symptoms of this formidable disease are, in the outset, said to be obscure. The local symptoms, no doubt, may be so, where the affected bone is unexposed or undivided. The constitutional symptoms are those of Pyaemia, and, at the outset, may be mistaken for a mere access of fever, a rigor such as may follow any great surgical opera- tion, or may occur from other causes. But as the local and constitutional symptoms progress, the doubt is soon cleared up. The symptoms, in the acute form, generally make their appearance early, within a week or ten days, it may be earlier, after the operation, wound, or injury. The stump, wound, or contusion, may have been doing well. It may, perhaps, have sloughed a little, and the sloughs have cleared away, healthy granulations having appeared. The flaps may have united, almost by fimt intention (this is a point to which Sedillot directs attention as a thing to be avoided), or all but at a point or two, whence discharge continues. The pain is not necessarily acute, and the tenderness on pressure of the stump is but slightly increased. The dis- charge becomes more profuse, but it is not healthy well- elaborated pus. A probe being'introduced, the bone is found dry and denuded, and, if exposed, the medulla will probably be found protruding like a fungus whilst the peinosteum ii stripped from the end of the bone. With all this there may have been only a quickened pulse, a febrile condition at some