SURGEllY IX BEXCAL. the action of the spirit in which they have been immersed^ yet they still display the changes that have taken place. In the fatal case, it is true that disarticulation was not performed, but section of the humerus above the joint toas. Whether disarticulation at the elbow joint would have been more successful, I cannot say; that the injury inflicted by the saw, the traumatism," to use a French expression, was the direct exciting cause of the recurrence of the disease in the humerus, appears probable, and certainly, so far, is an argu- ment in favor of INFIloux’s theory of disarticulation. Case 1. A healthy young man named Hurish Chunder Sircar, aged thirty-four years, was admitted, on the 6th November 1864, with a large tumour of the lower part of the right fore-arm, about the size of a cocoanut. There was an ulcerated opening in the tumour, the result of a moxa, and from it issued a dark sanious ichor. The duration of the tumour was one year, and it was apparently Enchondromatous, and not Malignant. The glands in the axilla not enlarged, and the general health not affected. I removed the tumour by excising it with the lower third of the ulna, on which it was situated. The muscles and ten- dons were turned aside, the ulnar artery was divided and liga- tured, other smaller branches were also tied. The wound was stuffed with lint to prevent hoemorrhage. He did well at first, but the suppuration became very profuse and extended up the arm; his pulse began to quicken •, fever came on. He was ordei’ed good diet. The Tinct. Ferri Sesquiehloridi min. xv. thrice daily. Thef sutures and ligatures all came away in due time, but the suppuration increased and indications of sys- temic affection became more marked, the bone became denuded of periosteum, and the medulla protruded in fungoid form. On the 21st of the month he had rigors, followed by profuse sweats, pulse 130; the wound itself had nearly closed, but the discharge from a counter-opening was very free. The arm was infiltrated and cedematous, the superficial veins marked by discolored lines on the limb. It was evident, from both local and constitutional symptoms, that it was not possible to save the arm, and I accordingly amputated it high up near the shoulder joint by double flaps. d