28 SURGERY IN BENGAL. I have had doubts as to whether this was really a portion of dead lung- tissue, or whether it was not merely a portion of lung infiltrated with aplastic exudation; whatever it may be, it certainly is not what it is usually called, an abscess, and this is a point in the pathology to which I particularly desire to call your attention; and if it be dead tissue, how is the death caused ? Is it by capillary embolism ? or how does the blood poison operate ? Is it in producing inflammation, or, as I, regard it, death of the tissue previous to the inflammation, which is a consequence, not a precursor of the death? I feel inclined to explain it by embolism in the pulmonary artereal capillaries (the microscopical emboli having arrived there through the heart), or, at all events, death is caused by some process analogous to that by which the portion, of areolar tissue that forms the core of a boil is hilled before inflammation is set up round it, to throw it off, a process which having taken place gives rise to the abscess, in the centre of which the core of the boil is formed. The axillary vein was found filled with black jelly-like clots; near the stump a fii-m fibrinous clot blocked up its calibre. This clot was yellowish in color, and closely adherent to the living membrane of the vein. This was in one part red, in another pale and roughened, and the surface could be easily scraped off with the back of the scalpel. The smaller venous branches contained a puriform matter, which flowed out on pressure from the cut ends. The state of the cephalic vein is nOt recorded. The hone contained pus up to the head, and here and there, little depots of it, besides the general infiltration of the can- cellated portion of the bone. This case is a good one, as it illustrates the chief points of interest in both the surgical and pathological bearings. I will now relate a case in which the result was recovery. I should apologize for again bringing this ease before the Society; but as it best illustrates the points I wish to urge, I must ask your permission to do so. Case 2. A Mahomedan lad, aged 16, was admitted on the night of 10th April J864, having received a severe injury to the right