SURGERY IN BENGAL. 19 by drawings taken from nature, or the preparations them- selves. The symptoms of this formidable disease of the bone are local and constitutional. Obscure in the out-set, both, if looked for, are to be recognized, and it is of the utmost importance that this should be done early. I have already said that this disease had forced itself upon my notice as a frequent source of failure here after surgical operations involving section of bone, amputation, &c., and it is to be understood that it is of the diffuse suppuration of the bone, I speak, and not of those partial inflammations that are included by M. J. Roux in the category of Osteo-Myelitis, and which gave rise to the following remark from the Baron Larrey,—“ I would ask M. Roux if the Osteo-Myelitis which complicates a fracture, interfering with union by hinder- ing consolidation, is also the Osteo-Myelitis which prepares the callus, saving the life and limb of that patient ?” For in that case there would be two very different kinds of Osteo- Myelitis, the one absolutely morbid, entirely pathological, the other essentially curative and salutary. But where would be the limit between the two ? The endemic prevalence of the form of Osteo-Myelitis is, no doubt, due to a combination of causes existing in the people, the place and the Hospital, and though, no doubt, the hygienic condition of all these are important, yet I believe that, so far as the Hospitals themselves are concerned, we are liable to err in attributing too much to their defects ; for, as I have before remarked, though far from perfect, they are infinitely better than many where it is never pretended that Pyaemia results from defective hygiene. Osteo-Myelitis may have its origin in any wound, injury, contusion of the bone, or of its periosteum, or medullary mem- brane ; sudden extremes of heat or cold, constitutional vice, such as syphilitic or strumous deposits in bone, necrosis of the exterior extending inwards, and so causing mischief there. I would repeat that I am alluding now only to the acute form of the disease. The suppuration that invades the entire medulla of the bone. Why it should occur in some, and not in others, or why it should occur, when the healthy condition and vigorous granulation of the soft parts of the same limb, or