15 STJRGEUY IN BENGAL. they have existed, is, in my opinion, giving all due weight to local causes, more due to the city atmosphere and the people themselves, than to any other. .This brings me to speak of certain points of interest in relation to the mortality after surgical operations, and, as my time is limited, I shall confine myself to the subject which, in this respect, has most occupied my attention, and is inter- esting as one of the chief sources of the Pysemia which proves fatal to so many of our patients. The subject that I desire to ask your attention to is one of the frequent causes of death after amputation, or other inju- ries, or surgical operations involving section of bone. In illustration of this, I have noted a series of amputations that have occurred during a period of two years, in my prac- tice in the wards of the Medical College Hospital. These ampu- tations, thirty-two in number, were all capital operations, i. e., of the upper and lower extremities, either at the joints, or through the continuity of the long bones. They were—one of the hip, three of the thigh, ten of the leg, four of the ankle (Sgme’s), five at the shoulder joint, five of the arm, four of the fore-arm. Of these, thirty-two in all, three were secondary am- putations, and of the number, fourteen lived, fifteen died. Of the deaths, nine resi.dted from Pyaemia, the consequence of Osteo- Myelitis, three from Pyamia not depending on bone disease. There were six deaths from other causes, such as Tetanus, Gangrene, Exhaustion. Now it will be at once recognized that this proportion of deaths from Pyaemia, depending on bone disease, is something unusual—something very differ- ent to the ordinary death Eeturns of other hospitals. It is this, therefore, that I wish specially to call your attention to, not only in regard to its pathology, but with respect to the treatment, which involves a question of amputation of much importance. The subject of acute suppuration in bone is one which has, apparently, not attracted much attention hitherto in this country, nor, indeed, has it been, so far as I am aware, so much studied anywhere as by the French Surgeons, who have given it the name of Osteo-Myelite, by which we also now distinguish it. M. Jules Roux, Surgeon in Chief of the Great Naval Hospital of St. Maundrier in Toulon is the