SURGERY IN BENGAL. 21 time of tlie day; the temperature, at others, being at, or even below, the natural standard; rigors, as yet, so slight as hardly to have attracted attention, may have occurred. Such are the early stage and symptoms, local and constitutional. These rapidly progress and develop themselves in the most marked manner, and it is here that the critical period has arrived when it is necessary to make a thorough examination, and decide the question whether it be Osteo-Myelitis or not. Exploration should be made with the finger, the stump, if necessary, being sufficiently re-opened to admit of your doing so, and the condition of the bone should be most carefully examined and ascertained. In incipient cases, the medulla will be found protruding like a fungus, and the bone surround- ing it exposed to a greater or lesser extent. At a later period, the end of the medulla is found already dead, blackened, and encrusted, but within it is a putrid mass of bone debris, and pus—a probe passing down the entire length of the shaft. In the former stage you can wait and watch progress, the mischief may be limited, and a ring of bone be thrown off. But in the latter case, immediate interference is neces- sary, and nothing less than amputation, either at or above the next joint, will suffice. The constitutional symptoms will also have indicated the necessity for interference, and they are the symptoms of Pyaemia of a marked character. Kigors, followed by fever and profuse sweatings, rapid and feeble pulse, a yellow or rnuddy tinge of the skin and eyes, short and hurried respiration, tongue sometimes dry and coated, at others clean, but smooth and stripped of the epithelum; Sudamina on the trunk; pain in the thorax, abdomen (hypo- chondria), or in the vicinity of the large joints; expectora- tion, not unlike that of pneumonia; constipation at first, but ultirnately diarrhoea and a tympanitic state of the abdo- men, whilst at the same time, a peculiar mouse-like odour is given off from the body. As the disease advances, the rigors become more frequent, the patient wanders, and he passes into a typhoid condition; sometimes life passes away gently or in the low muttering of typhoid; in others, violent delirium precedes it, though, for the most part, death occurs quietly as from extreme exhaustion. The Hypochondriac tenderness and hurried breathing with friction sounds or bronchial rfiles, are the physical signs that