AN INQUIRY • INTO THE STRUCTURE & ANIMAL (ECONOMY OF THE HORSE. COMPREHENDING THE DISEASES TO WHICH HIS LIMBS AND FEET ARE SUBJECT, WITH PROPER DIRECTIONS FOR SHOEING, AND POINTING OUT A Method for ascertaining his Age until his Twelfth Tear. TO WHICH IS ADDED, AN ATTEMPT TO EXPLAIN THE LAWS OF HIS PROGRESSIVE MOTION, ON MECHANICAL AND ANATOMICAL PRINCIPLES. The Whole illustrated by EIGHTEEN COPPER PLATES. By RICHARD LAWRENCE, VETERINARY SURGEON, BIRMINGHAM. - CONTINUO PECO RIS GENEROSI PULLUS IN ARVIS ALTIUS INGREDITUR, ET MOLI.IA CRURA REPONIT: PRIMUS ET IRE VIAM, ET FLUVIOS TENTARE MINACES AUDET, ET IGNOTO SE3E COMMITTERE PONT1S NEC VANOS UORRET STREPITUS# VIRGIL• GEORG. LIB. 2* , A.,L & JBfcminffljam, PRINTED FOR XHE AUTHOR, j4T T. J. PEARSON'S PRINTING-OFFICE, HIGH-STREET. AND SOLD BY KNOTT & LLOYD, BIRMINGHAM; J. WALLIS, PATER-NOSTER ROW, AND G. NICOL, PALL MALL, LONDON. MDCCCI.ROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS LIBRARY CLASS t ACCN. SOURCE DATEThe A 2 TO THE RIGHT HONOURABLE LORD HEATHFIELB. MY LORD, GRATITUDE for the repeated favors 1 have received at your Lordfhip's hands, would alone prove a fufficient inducement for me thus publickly to acknowledge them. But when I confider how greatly the Vete- rinary Art is indebted to your generous patronage, I feel an additional incentive to dedicate to your Lord- fhip thefe frf fruits of my literary labours.( iv ) The annals of the Veterinary College tefiify, that your Lordfhip has ever flood foremojl in exer- tions for its interejl and profperity, by taking that inflitution under your protection, and endeavouring to ref cue an ufeful animal from the baneful ejfeffis of ignorance and prejudice. That your Lordfhip may live to fee the object of your wifhes completely fulfilled, is the ardent prayer of Your LordJhip's Mofi devoted and mofl obliged humble Servant, RICHARD LAWRENCE.The PREFACE. Next in dignity to that branch of the medical art which is applicable to the human fpecies, we may, with propriety, clafs that which has for its obje£t the difeafes of the horfe. It therefore appears extraordinary, that, until a recent period, neither humanity nor intereft fhould have prompted mankind to inveftigate, on fcientific principles, the Veterinary Art, which mull certainly be of the firfl importance in a country which abounds with the fined horfes in the world.PREFACE. VI com- The neceffity of long lludy in anatomy, pathology, and the compofition of drugs, to qualify a pradlitioner in medicine, is univerfally acknow- ledged*, and as the horfe exifts by fimilar laws, and is fubjedf to many of the difeafes incident to mankind, it cannot require much penetration to difcover that ftudies of the fame nature muft be abfolutely requifite to conftitute a good farrier. But if conclufions were to be drawn from the balis on which the veterinary fyltem has hitherto relied, it would feem that the fcience of farriery has been confidered as a natural gift, and not in the leaft dependant on the tedious procefs of medical in- quiry and invefligation; for every blackfmith, groom, and liable boy, not only conceives himfelf, but is often believed by his employer to be fully * Cicero, in his orations, makes the following juft obfervation: “ Medico diligenti, priufquam conetur segro adhibere medicinam non folum morbus ejus cui medere volet, fed etiam confuetido valentis, et natura corporis cog- nofcenda eft.”PREFACE. vu competent to the important tafk of curing difeafes, of the nature of which he is totally ignorant. Surely nothing can be more abfurd than to imagine that a groom, by having fed and cleaned a horfe for a few years, mull; confequently become acquainted with his difeafes and their caufes; it would be equally plaufible to alfert, that becaufe he knows by ocular experience, that the fun rifes in the morning and fets at night, he mull be an aftronomer. The majority of the affluent, to avoid the trouble of refledlion, fufifer themfelves to be influenced in matters of this nature by men, whofe opinions on any other fubjeft they would treat with the greateft contempt. Few things can be more arfe&ing to a con- templative and humane mind, than the fufferings of a mute and patient animal, the eftimable con- tributorPREFACE. vm Con- tributor to our pleafures and comforts, when af- fli6ted with fome violent difeafe in which nature exerts her utmoft efforts to relieve herfelf; but how muff this fcene of diflrefs be heightened, could the proprietor be convinced, that the very men he applies to for affiftance only aggravate the evil by their ignorance. The mod learned and experienced phyficians confefs the infufhciency of their art, and confe- quently their attention is dire6led to the means of rendering it lefs fallible. To men of this descrip- tion, the infinite varieties which the fame difeafe prefents in different habits, will fufficiently de- monftrate the difficulties attending their pra6tice ; but the empyric, whofe confidence ever keeps pace with his want of {kill, boldly prefcribes the fame treatment under every difference of age, fex, and conftitution.PREFACE, IX Consonant to this was the practice of farriery, until the eftablilhment of the Veterinary College took place. The treatifes written on the fubje6l before that period, were found to be fo fallacious in the de- fcription of difeafes, as well as in the proportions of drugs prefcribed, that it was judged neceflary to begin de novo. Horfes were procured for the purpofes of difle6lion, and of making experiments with regard to the quantity of different medicines which might be given with fafety, as well as to their effe&s. The profeffor and pupils were liberally fecond- ed in their endeavours by the following gentlemen, whofe names are fufficient teftimonials of their abilities, viz. Sir Geo. Baker, Mr. Cline, Mr. Abernethy, Dr. Geo. Fordyce, Mr. J. Hunter, Dr. aX PREFACE. Dr. Baillie, Mr. Cruikshanks, and Mr. Home; the latter five generoufly granted to the pupils of the college the liberty of gratuitous attendance at feveral courfes of their refpective lectures. To this fource I {hall always be proud to acknowledge myfelf much indebted, and fhall ever hold it in grateful remembrance. With refpeCl to the plan of the prefentwork, it will be perceived that I have not entered very extenfively into a defcription of internal difeafes, from a conviction that fuch a treatife would be attended with more danger than utility. The internal difeafes of horfes, except fome few which are well marked, are fo obfcure as even to baffle the {kill of an experienced praCtitioner in his endeavours to afcertain them. HencePREFACE. xi Hence it cannot be expe&ed that proprietors of horfes, from the cafual and confined obfervation furnifhed by their own ftables, can acquire the faculty of difcrimination in this refpe6i, and the mifchief arifing from an improper adminiftration of medicine, muff be fufficiently obvious both from candid reflexion and fatal experience. To confirm more ffrongly this remark, I am in poftef- fion of many proofs within the circle of my own employers, where horfes have fallen a facrifice, particularly in attempts to deffroy worms, and yet we fee exhibited at the window of every druggift's fhop, a lift of horfe medicines prepared from the moft approved recipes; nor does the evil terminate here, ftnce regularly educated veterinarians, barter- ing their better judgment for temporary intereft, carry on the traffic in the form of medicine chefts, with pamphlets containing dire£lions for making ufe of their contents. This is certainly a cheap a 2 modePREFACE. Xll mode of conveying knowledge, and, if well found- ed, muft do away at once the necertity of a veterinary college, and all its relative rtudies. But to obviate farther any difappointment which might accrue to my readers, in not meeting in the following pages with what has been generally termed a compleat fyflem of farriery, I have only to add, that I have direCted my endeavours to point out the means of preventing difeafes, and thereby to fave the animal the pain and danger of undergoing medical difcipline from the hands of thofe who are unqualified for that purpofe ; and I wifh it to be underftood, that my motive for introducing the foregoing obfervations originated purely from the conviction, that this branch of medicine, as well as all others, would, in every point of view, be more beneficial to the public, and to pra&itioners themfelves, if it was diverted ofxiii PREFACE. of thofe little artifices which have too long dif- graced it. For this reafon I have treated principally on the ftru6lure and difeafes of the limbs, fhoeing, management of the liable, &ic. than which, I con- ceive, nothing can be more important. How far I have fucceeded, I mull fubmit to the candour of the public to determine. I fhall at lead polfefs the fatisfa£lion of having endeavoured to promote the fcience, by promulgating that theory which I have found to be true in pra£lice. The fource of peculiar properties in the ftruc- ture and motion of the animal is, in general, but little underllood. This branch I have attempted to elucidate upon mechanical and anatomical principles; and the explanatory plates being de- figned by myfelf, will I trull, be more accurate thanXIV PREFACE. than they would have been from the hands of a fecond perfon. To the ProfefTor at the Veterinary College, and my Fellow Pupils, the privilege of criticifm more immediately belongs; but I feel much con- fidence in the expectation of their candour and impartiality, more efpecially when I declare, that it will always give me pleafure to acknowledge any improvements which their induftry and abili- ties may hereafter produce. CONTENTS.CONTENTS CHAPTER I. PAGE On the external Conformation of the Horfe 1 CHAPTER II. On the Eye — — — — ‘ 29 CHAPTER III. On Shoeing, and the Difeafes of the Foot — — 41 CHAPTER IV. On the Greafe — — — — — ^7 CHAPTER V. On Lamenefs — — — — =— 8i CHAPTER VI. On Wounds — — — 103 CHAPTER VII. On Refpiration, natural and difeafed — —* — 111 CHAPTERCONTENTS. XVI CHAPTER VIII. PAGE On the Structure and CEconomy of the Stable — — 129 CHAPTER IX. On the Age of the Horfe — — — — 163 CHAPTER X. On the Education of the Horfe — — — —- 173 CHAPTER XI. On Progrefiion — — — — — 183 INDEX.INDEX. PAQE . Form of, bad confequences of clipping the hair from ) g the infide of it — — — — j EYE. Its healthy and difeafed ftate — — 29 Hawe, or membrana ni&itans, its ufe — 36 Lachrymal du<5t, obftruCtion of — — 39 FOOT. Its form and component parts — — 24 Treatment of it in Ihoeing — — 45 Pumied or convex foie — — — 5° Contradled hoof — — — 52 Corns — — — — S6 Difeafed frog or running thrulh — — 59 Quittor — — — — GREASE. Defcription of and method of cure — 67 HORSE. Proportion confidered — — — 6 Fore quarters, conformation of — ■— 10 Body, proportion of — — — 16 Hind quarters, conformation of — — 19 Age, method of afcertaining it b — — MethodsINDEX. XV1U Methods employed by dealers appear younger — to make an old horfe j FAGS 168 Ditto to make a horfe which pear to be five — is four years old ap- j 170 Education — — — — 173 Blood, charafteriftic of — — 179 SS — — — — — 81 Splent — — — 82 Ring-bone — — — 84 Stiff joint or anchylofis — — »5 Bone fpavin — — — 86 Strain of the fheath of the tendon — 89 Rupture of the fufpenfor ligaments — 91 Windgalls — — — 92 Thorough pins — — — 93 Blood fpavin — — — ibid. Bog fpavin — — — ibid,. Curb — — — 94 Coffin joint, lamenefs of — — 96 Mufcular lamenefs — — — 97 Rheumatifm — — — 98 Spafm —- — — ibid. Stringhalt — — — 99 SSION — — — Walk — — - — 185 Trot — — — 189 Forging, or ftriking the fore feet with the hind feet, ) method of preventing it — — > TrottingINDEX. six P.1GE Trotting widely with the hind legs, the reafon of it 194 Canter and gallop — —- —- 196 Danger of flopping fuddenly in the gallop 203 Paflage — — — • — ibid. Advantage of teaching this pace — — 204 RESPIRATION — — — — m Peculiar form of the throat of the horfe — 112 Peculiar form of the noftrils — — 114 Broken wind —• — — — 117 Roarer defcribed — — — 121 Crib-biter — — — — 124 STABLE. Strufture and oeconomy of — — 129 Ventilation — — — 132 Light — — — —■ i37 Narrow flails, inconvenience of — J38 Ground furface of the flail, erroneous conftrudlion of 140 Organs of digeftion defcribed — — 144 Staggers — — — •— H7 Diet — •— — —■ 150 Water — — — — 152 Training hunters and racers — -— J54 SHOE. Improper form confidered — — 43 Proper form for a good foot — — 43 Bad confequences of applying it hot •—* ibid. 103 WOUNDS' ' - . ' - - . rn i-1 \r\: ' * "1 -- . »j . .. ^ (i . :cri > ' -— i J 1 • : • : . . . / ; •• - . .Cl, V I . . 7 •LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS, AyLESFORD, Earl of, tivo copies Arden, H. Efq. Altbury, Thomas, Efq. Adams, John, Efq. Anfon, Thomas, Efq. three copies Barton, Mr. James Barwel], Richard, Efq. Blunt, William, Efq. Barber, Mr. Birch, George, Efq. Bayley, Rev. Mr. Beddard, Mr. Boardman, Colonel, Scots Greys Bothwell, Major ditto Brown, Captain, Jnnijkilling Dragoons Barker, Mr. George Boulton, M. Robinlon, Efq. Bracken, Mr. Bree, Dr. Barr, Mr. Burflem, Rev. Blakemore, , Efq. Boulton, Matchew, Elq. Bacon, John, Efq. Barker, Edward, Efq. Bonnar, Mr. Bedford, W. Efq. Currie, Captain, 3^ Dragoons Croxall, Edward, Efq. Cawley, J- H. Efq. Crockett, Mr. Chrees, Mr. Champernowne, A. Efq. Clarke, N. G. Elq. Carruthers, Mr. Carmichael, Dr. Cope, Mr. John Colmore, Lionel, Efq. Couchman, Mr. Henry Carver, Lieutenant-Colonel Carles, Rev. R. L. Cliffe, Mr. Dartmouth, Earl of Deakin, Mr. Drake, T. Efq. Dixon, Rev. J. Dyott, Richard, Efq. Dilke, Rev. John Dobbs, Mr. Dickenfon, William, Efq. Dickenfon, William, Jun. Efq. Dickenfon, Mr. Jol'eph Dickenfon, Mr, Samuel Dixon, Mr. Dickens,xxn SUBSCRIBERS. Dickens, Mr. Dickenfon, Edward, Efq. Dickenfon, Wingfield, Efq. Deval, John, Efq. Edwards, Captain Evans, Lieut. C. Ellifon, Rev. William Eyres, James, Efq. Elwell, Mr. Jun. Ewart, Peter, Efq. Freer, Mr. George Freer, Mr. William Freer, Mr. Thomas, Stretton Freer, Rev. T. L. Floyer, W. H. C. Efq. Fiftier, Rev. Thomas Fletcher, William, Efq. Francis, Thomas, Efq. Freer, Mr. Dor don Freer, Mr. Leicejlerjhire Militia Finch, Hon. General Fifher, Thomas, Efq. Goodall, M. Efq. Gillon, Colonel, Scots Greys Grazebrook, Thomas, Efq. Garbett, Colonel Greenup, William, Efq. Halifax; Grove, Edward, Efq. Golfelyn, Lieutenant-Colonel Greenway, Kelynge, Efq. Gardner, Frederick, Efq. Grefley, Richard, Efq. Heathfield, Lord, fix copies Hartopp, Sir Edmund C. Bart. Hammond, Mr. Hickman, Mr. Edward Hill, Waldron, Efq. Harding, Mr. Hill, Rev. Edward Hankin, Captain, Scots Greys Harding, Mr. Peter Hutton, Mr. Holyoake, Francis, Efq. Haughton, Mr. Mofes Harris, Mr. Hipkins, Mr. Harrifon, Rev. H. Holden, Mr. H. Heath, Rev. Holkins, Francis, Efq. Hammerfley, Rev. Mr. Inge, William, Efq. Inge, Rev. Charles Johnflone, Dr. Edward Johnftone, Dr. John Jones, Mr. Jones, Rev. Jones, Roynon, Efq. Jeffon Mr. Kettle, Mr. Thomas Kennedy, Mr. Knott, Jonathan Lawley, Sir Robert, Bart. Lane, Rev. Thomas, three copies Lawrence, Mr. John Legge, Heneage, Efq. Levett, Theophilus, Efq. Lane, John, Efq. Lentz, Mr. Legge, Hon. and Rev. Auguftus Levetr, Rev. Thomas Ledfam, Mr. Lythall, Mr. Loxdale, Thomas, Efq. Lloyd, Robert Lee, George, Efq. Muckleftone, Rev. Edward Marindin, Mr. Sen. Marindin, Mr. Jun. Maule, Rev. Mr. Molineux,xxiii SUBSCRIBERS. Molineux, G. Efq. Mafon, K. Efq. Mafon, Mr.William Moilliet, Mr. Mafon, Thomas, Efq. Meyrick, Lieutenant-Colonel Monckton, Hon. Edward Murray, Lieut.-Colonel, 24tb Dragoons Mayne, Mr. Pearfon, Dr. Price, Mr. Proud, Mr. Palmer, Mr. Pickering, Rev. Richard Princep, Thomas, Efq. Price, Mr. Pidcock, Major Purden, Mr. Pearfon, Thomas Aris, Efq. Pidcock, John, Efq. Price, Theodore, Efq. Pratchet, Mr. Price, Rev. T. Pemberton, Mr. Thomas, Jun. Price, Mr. Philemon Pearfon, Edward, Efq. Palmer, Edward, Efq. Pearfon, Thomas, Elq. Roberts, Dr. Ruffell, Mr. Roberts, Henry, Efq. Rollafon, Mr. Roberts, Mr. Robinfon, Mr. T. Jun. Ryland, Mr. Samuel, Jun. Stubbs, Mr. Smallwood, Mr. T. Stiles, Mr. Swinfen, John, Efq. Sneyd, Edward, Efq. Sadler, Rev. Robert Spooner, Ifaac, Efq. Spencer, Rev. Dr. Smith, Mr. Spurrier, Mr. Slaney, Morton, Efq. Smith, Dr. Scale, Mr. John Scott, Jofeph, Efq. Styles, Mr. Richard Stuart, Mr. Charles Southern, Mr. Stancliffe, J.—E. L. S. Stubbs, Mr. Jofeph Styles, Mr. George Shenftone, Mr. Smith, Captain Ferdinando, JVorceJler- Jhire Militia Spooner, Ifaac, Jun. Efq. Saverland, Christopher, Efq. Claybrook Talbot, Right Hon. Earl Talbot, Hon. J. C. Tomlinfon, Mr. Tennant, William, Efq. Terry, Mr. Townfend, Gore, Efq. Thornley, Mr. Tutin, Mr. Richard Thompfon, J. Efq. Thompfon, A. Efq. Talbot, Rev. George Talbot, Thomas, Efq. Thomas, Mr. Unwin, James, Efq. Underhill, Mr. Thomas Unett, Mr. Undrell, Mr. John Underhill, Mr. James Villers,XXIV SUBSCRIBERS Villers, James, Efq. Vere, , Efq. Wrottefley, Sir John, Bart. Williams, Sir Robert, Bart. Wedge, Mr. Wolfeley, Mr. Wylde, Rev. John Wood, Colonel White, Mr. Willis, Richard, Efq. Welch, Mr. Watt, James, Efq. —— SEVERAL of the Towns in which the Names of Subfcribers have been received being .at a confiderable diftance from Birmingham, it became impolTible to collect all the Names at the time the prefent lift was printed ; it is therefore hoped that thofe which the Author has been thus prevented from acknowledging, will be placed to the account of an involuntary and unavoidable omiffion. ADVERTISEMENT. Watt, James, Jun. Efq. Watt, Gregory, Efq. two copies Withering, Mr. Wells, Rev. Jofeph Webb, Mr. Thomas Wolferftan, S. P. Efq. Wilkes, Mr. B. Warren, Mr. Richard Wilding, Mr. Mortimer's Crojs Wedgwood, Jofiah, Efq. Wilkes, Rev. R. Walhoufe, Rev. James THE Reader is requejled to objerve, that this Treatise has no connexion whatever with onepublijhedby John Lawrence. CHAPTERAN ENOUIRY INTO THE STRUCTURE AND ANIMAL (ECONOMY OF THE HORSE. CHAPTER I. On the external Conformation. Considered in his relative fituation in the clafs of quadrupeds, the horfe appears not to be fo immediately conducive to the neceflary comforts of man, as thofe animals which furnifh food or raiment; but when his utility in agriculture, and in the tranfport of merchandife, as well as the fhare he contributes to our eafe and pleafure, are viewed cohesively, the horfe has an undoubted claim to precedence, and confequently to an ample fhare of attention. The horfe poffefles fpeed, ftrength, and beauty, conjunSively in a degree far fuperior to all other b animals.ON THE EXTERNAL CONFORMATION. 2 animals. He is alfo more docile, and more eafily applied to the fervice of man, whether for luxuri- ous or laborious ufes. For the purpofes of parade he is peculiarly adapted, by a beautiful proportion and an innate pride and grandeur of deportment, particularly manifeft in the manege, where, by the fpirit and elegance of his movements, he appears to participate with his rider in the oftentatious pleafure. When employed in the field or the race, he vifibly demonftrates the ardour of emulation, and finally merits our gratitude, by the patience and perfe- verance with which he endures the lower offices of labour and hardfhips of fatigue. Ax animal pofleffing fuch eftimable qualities, muft certainly have claims on our attention fuffi- cient to call forth an enquiry into his ftru6lure and animal ceconomy, on more fcientific principles than has hitherto been accomplifhed. In the expofition of the external ftru£lure, which I have attempted in the following (fleets, I certainly3 ON THE EXTERNAL CONFORMATION. certainly do not lay claim to originality in the undertaking, fince certain French veterinary writers, particularly Bourgelat, have treated on the fubje£l. The late Mr. St. Bel, who was the firft profeffor at the veterinary college, had it in contemplation to publiflr a work of the fame nature, but did not live to complete his intentions ; but the profeflion of portrait painter of horfes, which I have purfued in conjunftion with the veterinary pra6tice, has di- refted my attention particularly to this branch of the fcience ; and the accuracy of obfervation which the eye acquires by making draughts from living obje£ts, has probably enabled me to make more minute refearches than might have been effe£led by others who poffefled not the fame advantages. The principles upon which I have founded the prefent fyllem, I can with truth affirm to be the refult of experience. The data have been taken from the majority of objects in the fame clafs, as no particular laws have yet been difcovered which are unexceptionable in explaining the operations B 2 of4 ON THE EXTERNAL CONFORMATION. of nature, her productions being frequently in direCt contradiction to our metaphyfical reafoning. As no accurate judgment in the proportions of architecture can be formed without pofTefTing fome knowledge of its rudiments, fo can no experience in the proportions of a horfe be acquired without fome general acquaintance with his external ana- tomy. Habitual obfervation may, in fome degree, impart the faculty of difcriminating in this refpeCt; but it can never produce a true fundamental know- ledge of the advantages or difadvantages arifing from certain peculiarities of ftruCture. Hence we find every man adapts his ideas of perfection to the peculiar conformation of his own horfe. For inftance, the proprietor of a long legged horfe will tell you, that he is thereby better en- abledON THE EXTERNAL CONFORMATION. 5 abled to clear his leaps; while, on the other hand, another, who has a fhort legged horfe, allures you, that no other can get fo well through a heavy road; a third, who podeffes a long backed horfe, declares that they muft have length fomewhere ; and, finally, the dealer in horfes, who keeps fifty in his ftables, fums up the bufinefs on a broad fcale, and anfwers all your obje£tions by afierting that they will go in all forms. It would be thoroughly incompatible with the objedt of the prefent work, to fuffer it to be biafied by fuch vague opinions, generated rather by par- tial comparifon, than by a£tual experiment. They who have no knowledge of mechanical powers, will, perhaps, ridicule the idea of reducing the animal to any fuch principle. Anatomical dilTe&ion, however, prefents a machine of the trueft mechanifm, capable of locomotion by means of mufcles afting upon bones in various dire£lions. This6 ON THE EXTERNAL CONFORMATION. The This being the fa6I, it will not be difficult to difcover in what way the power of thofe mufcles may be increafed or diminiffied, not entirely by their own fufceptibility of ftimulus, but limply by their pofition when in a hate of ina£tion. To explain this theory, will be the objeft of the pre- fent chapter. The body and legs of the horfe, exclulively of the head and tail, may be faid to form nearly a fquare, as reprefented in plate I. This fquare is divided horizontally into two parts, nearly equal, by the body and legs, as re- prefented by the line A A. It is again perpendicularly divided into three parts, as expreffed by the lines B C. The firft of thefe lines B, defcends perpendicu- larly from the withers to the ground, and gives the proportion of the fore quarters.ON THE EXTERNAL CONFORMATION. 7 The The fecond line C divides the body from the hinder quarters, and {hews their proportion. Thefe three divifions are nearly equal, except that the center divifion is rather the wideft. The neceflity for this general proportion will be explained hereafter. The head fhould be fmall, and the countenance animated; the forehead ftraight and broad, the eye prominent, the ears ere£t, the noftrils open and thin, the mouth lean and deep, the pofterior part of the lower jaw fhould be open and capacious, which contributes much to the freedom of bending the head inwards, and is alfo confidered to facilitate refpiration. The form of the ear is admirably adapted for the purpofe of colle£fing found ; and it is worthy of remark, that a horfe feldom fleeps without pointing one ear forwards and the other backwards, to enable him to receive notice of the approach of objects in either direction.ON THE EXTERNAL CONFORMATION. The The horfe’s fenfe of hearing is very acute, and it is a fa6t pretty well known by fportfmen, that he can hear the cry of the hounds at a greater diflance than his rider. Hence it will fcarcely be neceffary to point out the abfurdity of cropping ; yet there exifls another bad cuftom, nearly as in- jurious as the former, viz. trimming the hair clofe out of the ears. The utility of hair in that part confifls in moderating found, excluding cold air, rain and flies, and other extraneous fubffances, which might otherwife drop into the ear*. The method of trimming the ears is by fmgeing the hair with a candle, and as the ear itfelf is frequently injured and rendered fore by this procefs, the horfe in confequence becomes fhy of any thing approach- ing his head. * The ears of all animals are defended in fome peculiar manner. The mole which lives under ground, and whofe ear is conftantly expofed to the ingrefs of earthy particles, has the faculty of clofmg that orifice by means of a fpbincter mufcle. The human ear alfo fecretes a fluid, which, being waxy and cobefive, arrefts the progrefs of infe&s and duft, and prevents their entrance.9 ON THE EXTERNAL CONFORMATION. The form of the mouth and lips clearly indi- cates that the animal was intended to be guided by the bit, as there are no teeth in that part to pre- vent the attion of it againft the bars of the mouth. Lean lips are moft fenfible of impreflion, and are therefore to be preferred. As deformity is conftituted by a want of har- mony in the component parts, it will not be dif- ficult to perceive, that a long head and a fhort neck, or a fhort head and a long neck, cannot be efteemed handfome. The neck fhould proceed in a line from the top of the head, forming a regular progreflive curve to the withers. The trachea or windpipe fhould be large in diameter, and fomewhat detached from the flefhy part of the neck. The fize of its diame- ter has a confiderable influence in refpiration. Large windpipes are peculiar to blood horfes, whence, probably, they are better winded than all others. 1 he chief beauty of the forehand depends c onIO ON THE EXTERNAL CONFORMATION. on the union of the neck with the fhoulders. The neck fhould ifTue high, and nearly in a line with the withers, and its lower part fhould enter the cheft high, and above the point of the fhoulders: the oppofite conformation to this produces what is termed an ewe neck, which can never be efteemed handfome. The fhoulders conflitute the center of motion in the fore part of the body, and the extent and elafticity of that motion will depend chiefly on the pofition of the fhoulder blades. The con- nexion of the fhoulder blades with the body is eflablifhed by mufcles only, independently of any joint whatever. It is by the alternate contra&ion and extenfion of thefe different mufcles that motion is produced, and it is by their united elafticity that the fhock is broken when in a&ion. This would not have been the cafe, had the fhoulder terminated in a fixed joint. The truth of this remark may be afcertained by riding alternately onON THE EXTERNAL CONFORMATION. u on the withers and the croupe, and comparing the difference of their refpe£tive motions. As it is the office of the hinder quarters to pro-, pel the body forwards, it is necefiary that they fhould be clofely united with the body by means of joints. But, on the other hand, as the fore quarters are chiefly employed in fuftaining the equilibrium of the machine, the concuffion which muff have been produced if they had been united to the body by joints, would have been confider- ably greater than what is produced by their being attached by mufcles only. In defcribing the aclion of the fhoulder, it will be neceffary to confider its pofition when in a ftate of immobility. The fcapula or blade bone is placed obliquely from the cheft to the withers, and the center of its a6tion is fixed in the middle of it. In its a6tion, it defcribes as large a portion of a circle as the extenfion of its mufcles will admit. If this por- tion of a circle, for inftance, be ten degrees, and c 2 twoON THE EXTERNAL CONFORMATION. 12 two different fcapulse poffefs the fame degree of extenfion, the one fituated obliquely (vide plate 2, fig. 1) the other perpendicularly (fig. 2) it muff neceffarily follow, that, afting on their refpe&ive centers, the one which is oblique muff elevate its lower extremity higher than that which is per- pendicular, and confequently will increafe the proje£tion of every part of the fore limb. Hence it appears, that an oblique pofition of the fhoulder is moft favourable for progreffion. The fhoulder may want liberty either by being too flefhy or too lean. In the firft inftance it is overloaded, and in the lad, it poffeffes not mufcle fufficient to enable it to perform its fun&ions with ftrength and celerity. The mufcles of the cheft contribute greatly to the motion of the lower part of the fhoulder. Hence a ftrong and moderately full cheft, is to be preferred to one that is narrow and meagre. It will probably be urged, that horfes are fometimes poffeffedON THE EXTERNAL CONFORMATION. *3 poffeffed of great fpeed, whofe forehands in no wife agree with this defcription ; but fuch horles are generally endowed with particular powers in their hinder quarters. The fore quarters are merely paflive, and extend themfelves to receive the weight of the body, and if they are fufhciently ftrong for that purpofe, the animal may certainly move with confiderable velocity ; but thence it is not to be inferred, that a greater velocity might not be pro- duced if both the fore and hinder quarters were alike perfe£I in their conformation. The fore legs will next come under confidera- tionf, on the good flru6lure of which the fafety and eafe of the pace of the animal will chiefly A horfe, whofe legs are twilled, or improperly placed too far under his body, may poffefs great fpeed; but that his a61ion mull be imperfe£t, the following reafons will fufficiently demonftrate: If14 ON THE EXTERNAL CONFORMATION. If the foot turns either inwards or outwards, it cannot alight flat on the ground, in which cafe the pofition can never be firm and heady, becaufe the prefifure will be partial on either the inward or outward quarter of the foot. If the leg is not perfectly ftraight from the fhoulder to the foot (vide plate 3, Jig. 1) its adtion cannot be true, nor the center of gravity fo readily found, as by one that is even and uniform in all its parts (jig, 2). If the elbow inclines inwards clofe to the ribs (jig. 1, A A) the leg muff be thrown fide ways when in a6tion, which will remove the foot too far from the center of gravity, and produce a lateral rolling motion very unpleafant to the rider. Again, if the legs incline too much under the body, they will be overloaded, and the freedom of their adlion will be reduced in proportion as they are op- * The fore legs, to be perfeft, fhould, in a front view, be widefl at the cheft, gradually approaching each other downwards towards the foot, and do- fcending NON THE EXTERNAL CONFORMATION. the *5 fcending in a perpendicular direction to the ground, as exemplified in plate 3, fig. 2. The upper part of the fore leg next the fhoul- der, fhould be broad and mufcular. The power of elevating the knee, and throwing the leg forwards, depends much on the fize of the mufcles in this part. The knee in a front view fhould be broad, flat, and fquare ; the lower part of the limb, between the knee and the fetlock, Ihould be fhort, flat, and wide in a lateral view. The tendons fhould be diftin£f, firm, and detached from the bone. The fetlock fhould correfpond in proportion with the reft of the leg, neither too upright nor too (loping. If it is too long, its ability of fuftaining the weight of the body will be diminifhed ; and if it is too fhort, it will be liable to knuckle over. Short patterns are generally attended with contraded feet,ifc ON THE EXTERNAL CONFORMATION. the weight of the body not being thrown fo much on the heel as is the cafe with long pafterns. The general proportion of the limb is confti. tuted by two equal divifions, viz. from the elbow to the knee, and from the knee to the ground. The length of the fore leg fhould correfpond with that of the hind leg, that is to fay, the elbow D, fhould defcribe a horizontal line with the ftifle E, plate 1, otherwife the harmony of motion is loft, as is the cafe in a carriage, where the fore wheels are of a fmaller diameter than the hinder wheels, on which account they are obliged to per- form three revolutions to two of the latter. THE BODY Contains the principal vifcera and organs of life. The common appellation of this part, amongft horfemen, is the carcafe ; thus a horfe is faid to be longON THE EXTERNAL CONFORMATION. D The long or fhort in the carcafe. A horfe which is fhort in the carcafe, is ufually ribbed home, as it is termed, that is to fay, there exifts but a fmall fpace between the laft rib and the hip bone. This conformation is jnfhly efteemed excellent. A horfe thus formed is generally fhort in the back and wide in his loins, and better adapted to carry weight and bear fatigue than a horfe of a different form. . H orses of this defcription, however, are com- monly fuppofed to be deficient in fpeed, from the idea that they have not fufficient length. But when it is confidered that the carcafe has no mo- tion of itfelf, but is entirely a£ted upon by the quarters and extremities, it is manifeft that the length fhould exiff in thefe parts, and not in the body. In proof of this, two horfes may be found exafclly of the fame length from the point of the fhoulder, at the cheff, to the point of the buttock, and yet one horfe fhall be long in the carcafe, and the other fhort. Vide plate 5,fig. 1 and 2.18 ON THE EXTERNAL CONFORMATION. The The difference confifts in the one having longer quarters than the other, and this is undoubtedly the form to be preferred. The fore part of the carcafe contains the heart and lungs, and fhould therefore be fufficiently ca- pacious to admit of a free action in thofe vifcera. Horfes with flat ribs experience a greater preffure from the atmofphere in their breathing, than thofe do which have their ribs more arched, confequently they are not fo well adapted for refpiration. The pofterior part of the carcafe contains the ftomach and inteftines, and is generally round and capacious in horfes of a ftrong conftitutiom The back fhould fink in a fmall degree behind the withers, and pro- ceed in a ftraight line to the end of the loins, and thence fall gradually to the tail. A hollow back renders the motion of the animal eafier to the rider, but certainly cannot be fo ftrong as one that is ftraight. A roach or hog back conftantly throws the faddle forwards on the fhoulders.ON THE EXTERNAL CONFORMATION. 19 The loins fhould be wide, and the hips low. The diftance of the point of the buttock from the hip fhould be confiderable. The lower part of the buttocks, in a pofterior point of view, fhould be wider than the hips (vide pi 4, Jig. 2, /. A A). The tail fhould ilfue from the croupe in a regular progrehive curve, and not appear as if it was ftuck into the rump. The hinder quarters may properly be con- fidered as the main fpring of the whole machine. This is clearly demonftrated by the fuperior fize of the mufcles, and the angular pofition of the thigh bones. It has generally been the cullom to attribute the fource of motion principally to the fore quar- ters, under the idea, that if the fore quarters could move well and with fpeed, the hinder quarters mult naturally follow. The fallacy of this doc- trine may be eafily expofed. In the a6lion of a felf-moving body, the pofterior part generally con- ftitutes the fixed point from whence the motion d 2 takes20 ON THE EXTERNAL CONFORMATION. The takes its origin. Thus, if the horfe leans forwards, the center of gravity ceafes to be fupported, and he is obliged to advance one of his fore legs in order to recover the equilibrium. Again, if the chief fource of motion exifts in the fore quarters, whence does it arife that many good fore-quartered horfes are bad leapers? The reason is obvious: from weaknefs in their hinder quarters; for the principal ftrength of a horfe lies in the mufcles of his thighs. Therefore a horfe may rife well at a leap, and clear it with his fore legs, but cannot bring his hinder legs over, unlefs the mufcles of his thighs are fufficiently powerful. It may be urged, that leaping differs from gal- loping ; but galloping is, in reality, conflituted by reiterated leaps on a plain furface. Hence the neceffity of a good conformation in the hinder quarters*. * A ftrong inflance in favour of this do&rine may be adduced in the celebrated horfe Eclipfe, who was unqueftionably the mod fpeedy horfe of his day. His fore quarters were very ill formed, and his fhoulder low ; but his hinder quarters were particularly ftrong and mufcular.ON THE EXTERNAL CONFORMATION. 21 The hinder quarters commence from the center of the back, and continue to the tail, including the hinder legs. When viewed in a lateral direction, the dis- tance from the hip bone to the point of the rump fhould be very confiderable. Vide pL 1, /. I K. The ft!fie (E) fhould fall perpendicularly in a dire£t line under the hip (I). By this means the length of the thigh bone (from L to E) is increafed, and its pofition rendered more oblique and angu- 4 lar. The leg from the hough to the ground fhould be perpendicular, and exactly under the hip joint. Vide L L. The thigh above the hough fhould be broad and mufcular (MM); the hough wide, flat, and lean. The width of the hough mechanically in- creafes its powers, by removing the a£ling mufcle to a greater diflance from the joint, thereby lengthen- ing the lever. The utility of the above conforma- tion in the hinder quarters, confifts in furnifhing a greater22 ON THE EXTERNAL CONFORMATION. The greater length to the haunch and thigh bones, without adding to the volume of the part wherein they are contained, and without removing the foot too far from the center of gravity. The hinder quarters, when viewed from behind, fhould appear wider from ftifle to ftifle (A A, 4, fig. 2) than from hip to hip (B B). Herein may be traced a llrong chara6teriftic of the blood horfe. The hips of the blood horfe are lower and narrower, proportionably, than thofe of the cart horfe ; on this account he is fuppofed to be weaker than the latter; but this is not the fa61. For if the croupe of a blood horfe is meafured from hip to hip, the fpace will be found (proportionably) to be as large as that of a horfe with wider and higher hips (vide pi Aifig- *) becaufe the furface is more circular, which, if extended flat, would occupy as wide a fpace. Hence it is evident that the blood horfe,. in this inflance, poffefles as large a propor- tion of mufcle, although it is concentrated into a circular form.ON THE EXTERNAL CONFORMATION. ^3 The leg fhould be perpendicular from the hough to the ground, as exemplified in fig. 2* Lee, and the houghs not too clofe to each other, which is vulgarly termed cat or cow-houghed. Videfg. 1, L A A, fame plate. Ho rses of this defeription have, in general, the reputation of fpeed ; but not altogether with juflice. In this pofition of the leg, a greater portion of weight muff; be thrown on the hough than if it was upright. Moreover, it is clear, that a moving part muff be impeded in its a£lion in proportion as it is oppreffed, and this oppreffion is fufficiently mani- feft by the production of thorough pins, curbs, fpavins, and weaknefs in the fetlock joint, com- monly called knuckling over; injuries to which horfes of this mould are peculiarly fubjeCI. The foregoing remarks upon the external con- formation, apply only to the mechanical advantages to be derived from a peculiar conftruClion of the component parts. The force of the mufcles not beingON THE EXTERNAL CONFORMATION. 24 being dire6lly proportioned to their bulk, but being in a compound ratio of their ftze and denfity or elafticity, the latter not being viftble, the force can only be afcertained by experiment, that is, by a trial of the animal. Having thus confidered the external conforma- tion of the animal, the next object of inquiry will be the ftru£ture and oeconomy of the foot, than which nothing can be more important. For be the fabric ever fo beautiful, yet if the foundation is not good, it holds its perfe£tion by a frail tenure, which the progrefs of time at length totally anni- hilates. THE FOOT Co nsists of three principal parts, viz. the wall or cruft, the foie, and the frog. The wall or cruft is the part which iffues immediately from the coronet, and grows down- wards to the ground. ItON THE EXTERNAL CONFORMATION. 25 It is compofed of a firm horny fubftance, which becomes harder the nearer it approaches the toe. It confifis of two fets of fibres, circular and perpen- dicular. The circular fibres furround the whole, and by their contra£tile power, prevent the fides of the hoof from burfting afunder. The degree of denfity in thefe fibres, will depend on the texture of the ikin from whence they originate, and, on this account, the hoofs of blood horfes are commonly much harder and more compact than thofe of cart horfes, whofe fkin is of a more fpongy nature. The foie forms the bottom of the foot, and is clofely conne£ted with the wall, which connexion may be diftinguifhed at a fmall diftance from its edges. The foie is naturally concave, and if the wall is firm, and poffefles fufficient contra&ion, it will have the property of an arch. The frog is a fubftance proje&ing above the furface of the foie, and occupies the pofterior part of EON THE EXTERNAL CONFORMATION. 2 6 of the hoof. Its form is wedge-like, with its point terminating in the center of the foie, and is ad- mirably adapted to give liability to the foot by its refillance to flipping. It is fofter than the reft of the hoof, and ferves as an elaftic cufhion for the terminating point of the flexor tendon of the foot. The heels conftitute the pofterior part of the hoof, and are compofed of the reduplication of the wall, forming a ridge to the fide of the frog. This part is called the bar or binder of the foot, and tends confiderably to keep the heels apart from each other. The foot of a colt, antecedently to being fhod, defcribes nearly a circle, of which the heels con- ftitute the wideft part (vide plate 6, Jig. 2). The hoof contains the lefler paftern bone, the coffin bone, and the navicular bone. The coffin bone occupies the large!! part of the cavity of the hoof as clofely as the kernel of a nut within the ffiell. It is conne6fed with the hoof by laminae, which arifeON THE EXTERNAL CONFORMATION. 27 arife both from the inward furface of the hoof, and the furface of the bone (vide jig. 4). Thefe laminae maintain their connexion with each other by the attra&ion of cohefion ; they alfo contain innumerable ramifications of blood vefiels and nerves. The compofition of this part is fingularly beautiful; for if the coffin bone and hoof were not feparate from each other, the growth of the hoof downwards could not have been carried on inde- pendently of the parts contained within it; thus we find the connexion exifts by the attra£lion of thefe laminae to each other, and which are folded together like a fan, in order to occupy lefs fpace, and yet, if expanded, would furnifh a furface twenty times the circumference of the foot. Within the coronet, at the fides of the hoof, are placed two cartilages, in the fhape of a half moon. Thefe cartilages cover the larger branches of the arteries, and furnifh a defence againft in- juries, fuch as treads and overreaches. They alfo E 2 prevent28 ON THE EXTERNAL CONFORMATION. prevent the coronet from prefling on the blood veffels and nerves which furround that part. The foot is fubje£t to many defers, which will be confidered under the article of fhoeing. CHAPTERCHAPTER II. On the EYE, The great utility of fight to animals which enjoy the faculty of locomotion, mull render an inquiry into the difeafes of that organ peculiarly intereft- ing. Inflammatory attacks on the eye of the horfe, eventually producing blindnefs, are fo general as almoll to fandtion a belief, that he is naturally more fubje6l to this infirmity than any other animal. Such a fuppofition, however, would tend more to arraign the wifdom of Providence, than to throw / any light on the fubjeft. A difference in the per- fection of the eye, as well as of other parts of the body, certainly prevails amongft different horfes; butON THE EYE. 30 but not to fuch a degree as to occafion blindnefs, provided the animal remained in a flate of nature. Unnatural confinement in hot and dark flables, the conflant coflivenefs produced by dry food, and more efpecially a general derangement of the fyflem brought on by violent and excefhve exertions, are undoubtedly the primary caufes of difeafed eyes. The neceflity of fpeedily countera£ting inflamma- tion in the eye, muft be fufhciently manifeft, when the reader is informed, that a total and irrecover- able privation of fight frequently takes place in twenty-four hours. The local fituation of the eye is fo familiar to every one, that it is fcarcely neceffary to defcribe it. It is placed Tideways in the head of the horfe, as well as in all other animals who preferve them- felves from danger by flight*. This pofition of the * This pofition of the eye is common to hares, birds, and feveral other animals. An inftance has occurred of a hare, when clofely purfued by a dog, having her eyes fo attentively fixed on the object behind her, as to run againfi: a tree, and to be ftunned by the concufiion. eyeON THE EYE. eye enables him, in fome degree, to fee behind him, and to kick againft an adverfary with greater cer- tainty. The anatomy of the horfe’s eye varies, in fome in dances, from the human eye, although the functions are precifely the fame. The pupil of the human eye is circular in its form, that of the horfe oblong. By this formation, the horfe’s eye takes in objects horizontally to a much greater extent than the human. The mufcles which move the horfe’s eye, are feven in number; in the human eye there are but fix. The feventh feems to be adapted for the purpofe of retracting the eye within the orbit, to fhield it from injury, and alfo to fufpend it in the action of grazing. It differs alfo from the human eye by being furnifhed with a membrane, fituated at the anterior corner (vide pi. 7, l. c). This mem- brane is common to molt quadrupeds*, as well as to birds. The anatomical name for this membrane * The monkey is an exception to this rule. ISON THE EYE. 32 is Membrana Ni&itans ; but, perhaps, it will be more readily underftood under the appellation of Hawes. Farriers are fo univerfally ignorant of the ufe of this membrane, that they confider it as a difeafe, and under that idea remove it by excifion. The pernicious confequences of this praCtice will be explained hereafter. These are the principal points in which the eye of the horfe differs from that of the human being: a more minute and technical explanation would be, perhaps, both uninterefting and unintel- ligible to the majority of my readers. The external furface of the eye, in its healthy Hate, is thoroughly tranfparent. The center of it,which is denominated the pupil, is generally of a dark indefinite colour. The pupil has the property of contracting or dilating itfeif, in proportion to the ftrength of light which enters the eye. Vide plate 7; letter A reprefents the eye in an33 ON THE EYE. F The an obfcure light. Letter B, in a ftrong light. The non-enjoyment of this faculty is a certain indica- tion of blindnefs. To examine a horfe’s eyes pro- perly, he fhould be placed under a liable door, with his head facing the light. In this fituation the pupils of both eyes fhould be exaftly of the fame dimenfions. As he advances more into the light, the pupils fhould contract; but if either of them does not contraft, the horfe is certainly blind of that eye. The difeafe which occafions this fpecies of blindnefs is termed, in pathology, the Gutta ferena, and arifes from a palfy in the optic nerve. It is fo little perceptible, that few but anatomills can de- te£t it. Another caufe preventing the imprelfion of light on the optic nerve, is more perceptible, but equally incurable, viz. an opacity in the furface of the cryllalline lens through which the rays of light pafs to the retina.ON THE EYE. 34 The cryftalline lens is a pellucid tranfparent convex body, fituated immediately behind the pupil*. It frequently becomes opaque, in confe- quence of general inflammation in the globe of the eye. In this ftate the furface of the lens, which prefents itfelf in the cavity of the pupil, affumes a greyifh afpe£t, and in the confirmed ftate it becomes perfectly white. At the commencement of this difeafe, fmall grey fpecks, about the fize of a pin’s head, are fometimes perceived in the pupil, fo fmall as not to interrupt the entrance of light; but the prefence of thefe fpecks is a certain indication that the eyes have been attacked at fome former period [vide pi. 7, L D). The appearance of the eye in an in- flamed ftate, whether from external injury or from a bad habit of body, is nearly the fame. The fur- face becomes cloudy and opaque, and frequently * The cryftalline lens is more or lefs convex in different animals. In fiffi it is perfeftly fpherical, as the aqueous medium which furrounds them, renders a greater refraftion of the rays neceffary to vifion.ON THE EYE. 35 a yellowifh red, and fometimes green fluid is feen floating in the anterior chamber of the eye. The opacity of the outward furface is produced by the coagulable lymph being forced between the laminae of the tranfparent cornea, but is generally miflaken for a film covering the outward part of the eye ; hence the pernicious cuflom of blowing powdered glafs, and other irritating applications, into the eye, is reforted to with a view of eroding it. The blood veffels of the tunica conjun£tiva, or white of the eye, are turgid during inflammation. In this ftate the light is painful, and, in order to prevent its entrance, the eye-lids are generally clofed. When the eye-lids are opened by the hand to examine the ftate of the eye, the membrana ni&itans or hawe is brought, by the animal, con- fiderably over the furface of the eye, to fupply momentarily the office of the eye-lids, in prevent- ing the accefs of light. Vide plate 7, /. c. f 2 This3<5 ON THE EYE. the This temporary appearance of the hawe the farrier miftakes for a difeafe, and generally removes it by cutting it away. The hemorrhage and fuper- ficial irritation produced by this means, fometimes relieve the eye ; but the fubfequent effects are an expofure to inflammation, created by the prefenee of any extraneous fubftance, fuch as dull, hay-feeds, See. which, from the lofs of the hawe, the animal is difabled from wiping away. Inflammation in the eyes is often produced by plethora, from want of fufficient exercife. In this cafe topical applications alone are not to be depended upon. Evacuations to a very conflder- able degree are abfolutely neceflary. Two or three quarts of blood may be taken, and the bowels may be kept in a laxative ftate by mild purges, fuch as four drachms of aloes given at a dofe, night and morning, until they operate; the horfe to be fed with bran mafhes, andON THE EYE. 37 The the fame precautions attended to as are generally obferved in phyTicking. The bell lotion which can be applied, is a mixture of one-fourth vinegar to three-fourths of water, to be ufed with a clean fpunge and light hand very frequently. A rowel under the jaw, or blitters applied to the cheeks, will be found highly ufeful, together with regular exercife, juft fufficient to produce a moifture on the Ikin. Draught horfes of every defcription are probably more fubjeft to inflamed eyes, arifing from thepreffure of the collar preventing a free circulation of blood in the head. Young animals are more difpofed to local in- flammation than old ones, from the blood veflels not having acquired the habit of fufficiently refitt- ing the increafed force of the circulation ; hence horfes are more fubjeft to difeafed eyes before their fixth year than afterwards.38 ON THE EYE. The The mode of treatment here recommended will, in general, remove the inflammation, but will not prevent its return, except proper attention is paid to the management of the animal. It is certain that this difeafe arifes moft frequently amongfl horfes which are highly fed, and not fufhciently exercifed, and, in proof of this fa£t, many inftances occur where horfes have recovered perfect fight and retained it, in confequence of regular labour in a mail coach or poll chaife. There is another defcription of imperfeCt eyes, commonly called Moon Eyes or Buck Eyes. This term originated probably from fome peculiar in- fluence which the moon was fuppofed to have upon them, as the inflammatory attacks are gene- rally periodical. In this difeafe the eye is ufually fmaller than the common fize, and its outward appearance is cloudy and of a greyifh colour. The animal alfo is much addi£ted to ffarting at objects, particularly at fhadows and reflections from water.39 ON THE EYE. The fame rules, with regard to regimen and exer- cife, will be found ufeful in this complaint. External inflammation of the eye-lids, with a flowing of the tears down the cheek, is frequently occafioned by an obftru&ion in the lachrymal du6t, which opens into the cavity of the noftril. In this cafe water fhould be fyringed up the du£f, or fome ftrong fnuff may be blown into the noflrils to pro- duce fneezing..i :.*DU: ' u ; ?!i i'-yf cl oi Hiiv JrH.f; •: :■ t l . \ . - ‘; d ot r *.. i j. v n it . i i H’- ■ . ;•) v ; :v :• J ?} n \:-i; ; : ,'b;H / :CHAPTER III. On SHOEING. If the furface of the earth had remained in its natural verdant Hate, the neceffity of an artificial defence for the horfe’s foot would not have exifted. But fince it has been found more convenient to the general interefi of the community to conflru£t roads of hard materials, Ihoeing the animal has become an unavoidable evil. From the firft moment a colt is fhod, the con- teft between nature and the blackfmith may be faid to take place. The foot of a colt, as already defcribed, is con- cave in the foie, it will therefore be obvious, that g the42 ON SHOEING. the moft prominent parts of the foie muft come more immediately into conta£l with the ground. The parts which are moft prominent are the wall, the binders, and the frog. Thefe parts, therefore, conftitute the chief fupport of the foot. When the horfe is fhod, the inward furface of the fhoe becomes the fupport of the foot inftead of the ground; hence it will not be irrational to conclude, that the nearer this fupport refembles the furface of the earth, the better it will be adapted to the foot. The quarters and heels are naturally capable of an elaftic expanfion when the hoof is not fhod. This elafticity contributes to facilitate the circula- tion of the blood through the foot, to furnilh a fpring to the a6tion of the leg, and to leffen con- cuftion. It has been before obferved, that the foot pofteffedON SHOEING. 4 3 poffeffed three points of fupport, viz. the wall, binders, and frog. But the common method of fhoeing completely fruftrates this defign, for the fhoe being made concave and thick at the heels, the points of contaft are thereby reduced from three in number unto one, that is to fay, the wall of the hoof only. This concavity of the fhoe next to the foie, counteracts the elaftic expanfion of the quar- ters and heels, by conftantly prefling them towards each other. The thicknefs of the heels alfo elevates the frog above the ground, and prevents the preflure which its texture and ufe require. Nature, faithful to her laws, refills injury with her utmoft efforts, but, unfortunately, is unable to counteraCl the con- tinued application of an injudicioufly conftruCled fhoe. Hence the mifchief arifing from bad fhoeing is flow in its progrefs, but fatally certain in its effe&s. For if the alteration of the form of the hoof, and the confequent lamenefs, were produced inftantane- G 2 oufly,44 ON SHOEING. The oully, conviction would immediately follow, and even the molt uninformed would deteCl the erro- neous fyftem. The pra&ice of fhoeing, therefore, fhould be adapted folely as a defence to a part which is already perfect, and which hands in need of no alteration whatever from its original form. The greatefl merit which a blackfmith gene- rally affumes, is built upon his dexterity in fhoeing a bad foot, where much caution and precifion is required in driving the nails fo as to keep the fhoe fall without injuring the animal. But if he would bellow even one half of this clevernefs in atten- tively confidering the primitive lhape of the foot and its component parts, his abilities and his time would be employed to a much better purpofe. It will be fruitlefs, however, to expedl reformation from men who are fo firmly bigotted to their old maxims, that neither precept nor example can make the fmallell impreffion upon them.ON SHOEING. 45 The plan to be purfued in fhoeing a perfe£t foot will be as follows: To pare the wall juft fufficient to make it level; to pare the foie as much as will be neceflary to remove the dead furface which endeavours to de- tach itfelf by fcaling off fpontaneoufly; the frog to be cleared of its ragged edges; the heels not to be fcooped out, nor notched in any way whatever. The fhoe for a found foot to be about three quar- ters of an inch broad in the web, and of an equal thicknefs from toe to heel; the furface next the hoof to be half flat and half bevilled, except at the heels, which fhould be entirely flat, fo as to prefs on the bars as well as on the heels. The nails fhould be eight in number, four on each fide, and inferted principally near the front of the hoof, fo as to leave the heels as much at liberty as poflible. In order to fave trouble, it is a common prac- tice with blackfmiths to apply the fhoe hot, and burnON SHOEING. 46 burn down the hoof until it correfponds with the fui face of the fhoe. This method fhould never be tolerated on any pretence whatever, for it dries up the natural fluid of the hoof, deftroys the pores, and renders the cruft, to a confiderable extent, perfe6tly infenfible, and alfo caufes it to be fo brit- tle, as to be incapable of holding the nails in their refpe£tive fituations. It has been before obferved, that the fhoe fhould be half flat and half bevilled. By being half flat, it will embrace a fmall portion of the foie as well as the wall, and although it is generally afferted, that the foie will not endure preflure from the fhoe without injury, yet daily experience will fufficiently prove the contrary. If the whole weight of the animal is fuftained by the wall of the foot only, the preflure will be partial, the concuflion more considerable^ and the foie will gradually fink and become flat, and even convex or pumied. The fhoe fhould never be made of a Smaller diameter than the foot, particularly at the quarters. ThisON SHOEING. 47 This plan, however, is generally purfued from the apprehenfion of the horfe’s cutting his fetlock joints from the feet being too broad. But a horfe fel- dom cuts whilft his feet are found and free from pain, except from a natural malpofition of his legs. He is more liable to cut when his tread be- comes wavering and unlleady by being cramped and pinched from bad fhoeing. The foot fhould not be rafped too much below the clenches of the nails, as it is thereby partially weakened, and lofes its flraight direction from the coronet to the The nails fhould be as fmall as poffible, and in a wedge-like form at the head, by which means they will retain their hold with greater effect. The foregoing rules are pointed out for the purpofe of fhoeing a perfe£t foot, which has not been injured either by accident or difeafe; and if thev JON SHOEING. 48 they are ftriftly adhered to, will generally enfure a continuance of that perfection. But this method, however excellent in principle and confirmed by experience, may be eafily brought into difrepute by an injudicious application. This misfortune frequently occurs from the unqualified oppofition of blackfmiths in general, who, to ufe the words of Tacitus, will ever be found “ Confilii quamvis egregii, quod ipfe non afferret inimicus.” Their low cunning is fufficiently fruitful to point out to them, that the fudden reduction of a horfe’s heels which have been accuftomed to thick concave fhoes, will be produ£tive of confiderable pain and temporary lamenefs, and will thereby furnifh them with an opportunity of afferting the juftice of their predictions refpe£ting the fallacy of the new mode of fhoeing. Hence, if a horfe with high and contra£ted heels, is fent to a blackfmith with orders to have them reduced moderately at every49 ON SHOEING. every time of {hoeing, he feldom lets flip the op- portunity of bringing on the confequences before mentioned, by executing the orders to an extreme. Nor is this the only inftance wherein he has it in his power to pervert the prefent fyftem of fhoeincr. For if a flat narrow fhoe is recommended O as the befl; adapted for a good foot, the fame party will apply it to a pumied or convex foie, knowing, at the fame time, that a foot of that defcription cannot poflibly bear it. In this cafe the proprietor of the animal, who, probably, is not fufhciently verfed in the art of {hoeing to dete£t fuch iniquitous fchemes, difcovers that his horfe is lamed, and, unfortunately for his future intereft, poflefles a flill higher opinion of his blackfmith’s abilities, and thenceforth condemns the veterinary college and its do&rines in toto. But notwithftanding all their objections to the new fyftem of {hoeing, the defenders of the old mode cannot difprove this deplorable fa£t, that there is H fcarcelyON SHOEING. s° fcarcely one horfe in a thoufand, at fix years of age, that is perfe&ly found in his feet. PUMIED or CONVEX SOLE. i This alteration of the original form of the foie is fometimes produced by inflammation in the foot, and frequently by bad fhoeing only. When it is the refult of inflammation, the horfe is faid to be foundered, and the coffin bones to be funk. This difeafe feldom admits of a cure. But when the convexity of the foie has arifen from bad fhoeing, the only method by which permanent relief can be obtained, will be by running at grafs, without fhoes, for fix months at leaft. As the complaint is brought on, in a great degree, by par- tial preffure on the wall of the hoof by hollow- webbed fhoes, nothing can be fo conducive to the reftoration of the primitive form of the foot, as a general preffure on the foie and frog, by which means the wall of the hoof will be lefs impeded inON SHOEING. 5l in its growth, and will be thence enabled to re- cover its original flrength and texture. This is to be effeCted by no other means than by remaining at grafs, barefoot, for a confiderable length of time. As the front of the foot lofes, in this difeafe, its natural ftraight direction, and becomes curved as it approaches the ground, it is neceffary that the toe fhould be kept as fhort as poffible, in order to counteract this tendency. The heels, frog, and binders, however, fhould be left untouched. This plan will confiderably improve the fhape of a pumied foot; but a complete re-eftablifhment of the original concavity of the foie is not to be expeCted. The fhoe which is proper for a pumied foot varies, in fome degree, from that which is adapted to a perfeCt foot. Its internal furface mult correfpond, in fome meafure, with the convexity of the foie; but not more than is abfolutely necef- h 2 farvON SHOEING. 52 fary to admit a picker between them. The heels of the fhoe to be kept as flat as poflible, with a view to bring the frog into conta£l with the ground; the nails to be inferted principally round the toe. By bevilling the fhoe from the outward edge of the web to the inward edge, a flat furface will be prefented to the ground, which will certainly be more firm and fleady than one that is convex. The caution again!! applying a hot fhoe, is par- ticularly neceflary to be attended to in the prelent cafe. CONTRACTED HOOF Consists of a contra&ion of the heels of the hoof, and is, molt indubitably, the offspring of bad fhoeing (vide plate 6, Jig. i). Other circum- ftances, however, may concur in producing it, fuch as a natural difpofition to heat in the foot, increafed by Handing in the liable, or running thrulhes, or it may be brought on by the horfe’s not prefling on the53 ON SHOEING. the foot, in confequence of lamenefs in any other part of the leg. When the contraction exilts to a great degree, a perfeCt cure is not to be obtained. Hence the neceffity of counteracting it on its firlt appearance. Contraction in the hoof cannot take place fuddenly, as the internal parts of the foot will refit it for a certain length of time ; but the continued preffure of the quarters will ultimately produce an abforp- tion in the coffin bone, which is obliged, in this manner, to adapt itfelf to the diminifhed capacity of the hoof. Feet which are difpofed to contraCt, generally poffiefs great Itrength and thicknefs in the wall or cruft, and this contraCtile power mult be greatly increafed by the common praCtice of notching the heels, paring the frog and foie to an extreme, and fhoeing with convex ffioes with thick heels, thereby preventing the frog from touching the ground. In this cafe the frog, for want of preffiire, will be difeafed and waited in fubltance, and the animal will become unfafe in hisON SHOEING. 54 his progreffion whenever he happens to tread on a hone, or any other proje6ting fubftance. Corns alfo commonly attend feet of this defcription, from the heels being bound both by the ftrength of the walls and the bad conftru£lion of the fhoe. In the worlf hate of a contra&ed hoof, the foie is fometimes fo prefled upon laterally by the quar- ters, as to be forced upwards againft the flefhy foie in fuch a manner as to caufe great pain. This is denominated by the French, an encaf- telated hoof. It is eafily diflinguifhed by a preter- natural concavity in the foie. A cure is often attempted by fcoring the hoof perpendicularly from the coronet to the ground, rafping the quarters to the quick, and applying a fcrew fhoe. But attempts of this kind to produce a fudden alteration in the dimenfions of the hoof, will be found totally ufelefs, if not injurious. The difeafe is55 ON SHOEING. is brought on gradually; the remedy, therefore, muft be gradual, as the texture of the hoof is too firm and tenacious to yield haftily to artificial imprefiions. If the horfe is worth the trouble and expence, the moll probable means of effefting a cure will be either to turn him out barefoot, or to oblige him to hand without fhoes on the bare Hones during the day, and to litter him down at night as ufual. The pavement of the Hall, however, fhould be perfe&ly level, by which means the heels will be preffed upon properly, and will progreflively ex- pand. The quarters may be moderately rafped, and the heels to be pared as low as poflible. This procefs to be repeated once monthly at leaf!:. Wet rags may be tied loofely over the coronet, to be wetted frequently in the courfe of the day. This plan, however, muft be perfifted in for a con- fiderable length of time to produce the defired effe£t. But it happens fometimes, unfortunately, thatON SHOEING. 5^ that the internal parts of the hoof, fuch as the bones, cartilages, and ligaments, are diforganized beyond recovery. In this cafe an expanfion of the hoof will be produ6tive of little benefit, from the impoflibility of reftoring to thefe parts their natural functions and elaflicity. It is a praftice with moft farriers to draw the foie with a view to effe6t a cure ; but, indepen- dently of the barbarity of this operation, it will ever be found ufelefs, and will rather have a ten- dency to increafe the difeafe, by removing one of the principal fources of refinance to the contrac- tion of the walls of the foot. Yet we fee on the fhop door of every village blackfmith, horfes foies nailed up in regular order—trophies of his ignor- ance and his cruelty. CORNS. This troublefome difeafe alfo takes its origin from bad {hoeing. A corn57 ON SHOEING. A corn is generally produced by a partial preflure of the fhoe, from its fitting too hollow, or by the fhoe being too fhort, and indenting itfelf into the heel. The blood being forced into the horny fibres of the hoof, gives it fometimes a red, and fome- times a black appearance. The concomitant inflammation is frequently fo great, as to caufe internal fuppuration of the laminated furface of the hoof, even up to the coronet. In this cafe the corn fhould be properly laid open with a drawing knife, to procure a free egrefs for the matter downwards, and a bar fhoe fhould be applied, in order to remove the preflure from the heel unto the frog. As foon as the in- jured part is healed, the beft and moft radical mode of cure will be to harden its furface by an equal preflure, which will be beft effe£ted by the horfe’s remaining fome weeks without fhoes. i DISEASED58 ON SHOEING. DISEASED FROG, Commonly called a Running Thrush. This difeafe attacks the frog of the foot, ex- tending from its center up to the cleft of the heels, and if negle6led, terminates fometimes in a canker. It is often improperly attributed to a bad habit of body, and, on this account, it has been fuppofed to be dangerous to attempt its removal. A running thrufh, however, is more frequently produced by bad fhoeing, than by any other caufe, as we daily find that horfes of all habits of body are fubje£l to it. In cafes where the difcharge from the frog has been of long {landing, it is poflible that the fvftem may experience fome temporary inconve- nience by the hidden privation of an outlet to which it has been for fome time accuftomed, but hence we are not to fuppofe that an evacuation, which is not natural, fhould be effential to the health59 ON SHOEING. health of an animal, except it is brought on as a critical termination of fome other difeafe. Quadrupeds are not fubje6t to periodical dif- charges, fuch as menllruation or haemorroidal fluxes, and in this inftance they arc more perfect in their ceconomy than the human being. The frog, in its healthy hate, is a firm elaftic fubitance, fome- what fofter than the reft of the hoof. The form of it clearly points out its ufe, viz. to give liability to the foot, to ferve as a bafis for the flexor tendon of the leg, and to furnifh elafticity to the pofterior part of the hoof. But the common method of fhoeing would lead to a fuppofition, that not one of thefe pro- perties belonged to the part in queflion, and by this means the intention of nature is fruflrated in every inftance. The frog being, by thick heeled fhoes, deprived of prefture againft the ground, becomes foft, from the accumulation of the natural fluid which it fecretes, in this part, in great abun- i 2 dance,ON SHOEING. 6 o dance, from the fatty fubftance which lies imme- diately under the aponeurofis of the flexor tendon. This accumulation of fluid, at length, makes its efcape through the fiffure of the frog and heels, and acquires, by expofure to the atmofphere, a fetid fmell, and an acrimonious quality fufficient to erode the adjacent parts. In this hate the frog becomes fo fore and irritable, as not to endure preffure with- out a very painful fenfation. But the mifchief does not terminate here. The frog naturally con- ffitutes a point of refinance to the heels, and in conjun6tion with the bars of the hoof, prevents them from approaching each other; but when it is thus deftroyed by difeafe, it no longer performs that office, and the heels confequently contraft and produce an incurable lamenefs. Hence, the necef- fity of countera&ing this difeafe in its infancy, mull be fufficiently evident. The difcharge may be flopped by aftringent applications; but no permanent cure can be ob- tained without fuch a method of fhoeing as will bring61 ON SHOEING. bring the frog into contafl with the ground, and thus, by p re flu re, increafe its furface and harden its fubAance. Oil of turpentine, or blue vitriol diflolved in vinegar, may be applied daily to the part. The heels of the hoof to be pared as low as poflible, and the heels of the flioe to be made very thin. Colts at grafs are fometimes fubje6l to difeafed frogs ; but this occurs only in cafes where the walls of the hoof are exceedingly Arong, thereby prevent- ing the heels from being fufficiently worn down fo as to bring the frog into conta£l with the earth. Soft and wet paAures alfo contribute to the fame bad tendency. Here likewife the heeis ought to be pared down very frequently. If the difeafe has exiAed fo long as to have inflnuated itfelf between the horny and flefhy foies ofON SHOEING. 6 2 of the foot, it is then termed a canker, and mutt be treated in the following manner : Firft, it will be neceffary, with a drawing knife, to remove all that part of the horny foie which the difcharge has detached from the flefhy foie, or, in other words, all that part which is hollow underneath. The difeafed furface being thus expofed, is to be dreffed with a cauftic, fuch as butter of antimony, or nitrous acid and water, equal parts, and fome dry tow or powdered lime to abforb the difcharge. When this plan has been purfued, the cure will afterwards depend upon the application of preffure to the part affe6ted. The foie being, in fa£t, a plexus of blood vettels, granulations arife much more rapidly there than in any other fituation, hence they are better checked in their exuberance by pretture than by cauftic, which always puts nature to the expence of regenerating the furface. OU1TTOR,ON SHOEING. QUITTOR, Or Ulcer in the Coronet of the Hoof, Wounds on the coronet, between hair and hoof, occafioned either by treads or overreaches, may be eafily cured by wafhing the part thoroughly clean, and applying fome tow fteeped in fpirits of wine, and a moderate degree of preffure, fo as to bring the divided parts as near as poffible to each other. By thefe means they generally heal by the firft intention. But if they are negle£ted in their origin, or are improperly treated by the ufe of cauftic or violent dreflings, they become fiftulous ulcers, ul- timately rendering carious the cartilages and bones of the foot. In this hate they are called quittors. A quittor may alfo arife from the foot being pricked in {hoeing, and the matter forcing itfelf through the coronet. When64 ON SHOEING. When the ulcer has arrived at this ftate, the original caufe will be immaterial, the treatment mull be uniform in this particular, viz. to get to the bottom of the finus. The number, depth, and direction of the finufes may generally be afcer- tained by the probe. If there is only one finus, the orifice may be enlarged with the knife, and fome butter of anti- mony may be introduced, at the fame time drefiing the furface with common digeftives; but if there are more finufes, and in a tortuous dire&ion, it will be necelfary to lay the whole open, and to cut away all the difeafed part, after which it becomes a fimple wound. This operation fhould be per- formed by a fkilful hand, as there is danger of injuring both the capfular ligament of the coffin joint, and the principal artery running to the foot. A quittor frequently leaves a deformity in the growth of the hoof, which is denominated a falfe quarter.65 ON SHOEING. quarter. This arifes from the regenerated fub- fiance in the coronet producing an unequal fbape afterwards. It will afterwards be neceflary, in fhoeing, to avoid driving any nails near the part, if pofliblee K— — * . f li vmifci . .CHAPTER IV. The GREASE. In treating of the difeafes of the legs, it will be proper to begin with thofe which are external. The greafe is fo common a complaint, as to require little or no defcription of its appearance. It has hitherto been ufually afcribed to a grofs and foul habit of body, and the cullomary meafures of bleeding, purging, and rowelling have been, and continue to be adopted for the attainment of a cure. In this difeafe, as well as in all others, it will be neceffary firft to afcertain the predifpoling caufe, on found principles, before we can proceed to the adminiftration of medicine. The neceffity of this k 2 bafisTHE GREASE. 68 bafts is feldom or never confidered, and foulnefs, humours, &c. are afiigned indifcriminately to horfes of all ages, habits, and conftitutions, and caeteris paribus, the fame mode of treatment is uniformly perfifted in. Experience has proved that this mode of treatment is not always attended with fuccefs, and it remains to enquire into the caufes of its failure. The original caufe of the greafe is debility in the fyftem. Other circumftances, however, concur in its produ£tion, which will be noticed in their proper places. Debility may arife from dire£tly oppoftte caufes, viz. repletion and exhauftion. The healthy Hate of all animals is conftituted by a due and regular circulation of the blood, and an uniform maintenance of the natural evacuations of the body. Whatever difturbs any of thefe fun£tions will produce debility. In a full plethoric habit, the velfelsTHE GREASE. 69 vefiels which are appropriated for the circulation of the blood become opprelfed by being over- loaded, and are thus rendered incapable of pei- forming their office. Hence debility takes place, and the legs, which, by their fituation, aie moll remote from the center of circulation, and through which the blood has to return in oppofition to its own gravity, become fwelled for want of the ac- cuftomed abforption. On the other hand, when the horfe is lean and emaciated, either from want of a fufficient quantity of nutritive food, or from exceffive labour, the circulation of the blood will be languid from a deficiency of ftimulus, and de- bility will naturally enfue. In addition to either of the above-mentioned caufes, the following may be given as collateral promoters of the difeafe, viz. the feafon of the year, unnatural confinement in the liable, the ac- clivity of the pavement of the flail, cutting the hair off the heels, and want of proper exercife and cleaning. InTHE GREASE. 70 the In the winter feafon, at which period the greafe is moft prevalent, the infenfible perfpira- tion of the body is not fo regular, nor fo profufe, as in the fummer; but nature generally provides againft this decreafe, by increafing the difcharge of urine, and the expiration of vapour from the lungs ; and this mode of expulfion would be fully fufficient for the purpofes of the animal oeconomy, if the horfe remained in a ftate of na- ture. But it is far different with him in a domef- ticated ftate, in which he is alternately expofed to a warm and cold atmofphere, as he is within or without the ftable. The fecretion and evacua- tion of urine is difturbed in its procefs, by forcing him to proceed in his labour at the moment when the fulnefs of the bladder ftimulates him to dif- charge its contents; and although the perfpiration may be increafed to an exceffive degree by exer- cife, and which might be fuppofed to compenfate for deficiencies in other refpe£ts, yet it will be found, that the refult of exceffive labour and per- fpiration will be a proportionate debility, whereasTHE GREASE. 7« the infenfible perfpiration is a tranquil and imper- ceptible evacuation, carried on without putting nature to any expence of corporeal powers. The bad effe£ts arifing from the foregoing caufes, are confiderably aggravated by confinement to one fituation, probably during eighteen hours out of the twenty-four. The pavement of the ftall being on an afcent, will throw three-fourths of the weight of the body on the hind legs, and will alfo diftrefs them by the toe being placed upon higher ground than the heel, whereby the ligaments and mem- branes are kept conflantly diflended. Under thefe unfavourable circumftances the legs fwell, a rupture of the lkin eventually takes place, and a ferous difcharge enfues, which, by expofure to the atmof- phere, acquires a fetid and acrimonious quality. As the difeafe advances, the part affe&ed becomes ex- tremely fore and irritable, fo as to give excefiive pain to the animal when he moves the limb; at the fame time the excoriation fpreads, deftroys the roots of the hair, and creates a chancrous or puftu- lousTHE GREASE. 7* lous induration of the fkin, underftood in farriery by the appellation of grapes. When the diforder has arrived at this Hate, the horfe is generally fuppofed to be foul and full of bad humours. Bleeding, purges, and diuretics are made ufe of, during the a6tion of which the fluids are abforbed and evacuated, and the legs are relieved. This temporary abforption, however, ferves but to palliate the complaint, for its fubfe- quent effe&s will be an increafe of the original debility, and with it an increafe of the difeafe. This objection to purges, it will be neceflary to inform the reader, includes only thofe of the ftrong draftic kind. As the horfe is generally coflive in the liable, mild aperients will undoubtedly prove ferviceable ; but drallic purges generally increafe the collivenefs after their effetls have fubfided. If the horfe has proper73 THE GREASE. the L proper exercife, diuretics will, in general, remove the complaint. But antecedent to pointing out the mode of cure, it will be expedient to enquire into the con- fequences of the pra£tice of cutting the hair off the heels. So arbitrary is cuftom, that it frequently occurs that pra&ices are perfilfed in, which, by a proper invefligation, would be found to be moll dire&ly contrary to truth. Under this head we may clafs the foregoing. The common opinion upon this fubje£l is, that the hair harbours dirt, and prevents the legs from being properly cleaned. Under this pofition, its removal certainly would appear ne- celfary. But when it can be proved that this hair does not harbour dirt, but, on the contrary, prevents its accefs to the limb, it will be no diffi- cult talk to ffiew its utility. Nature has cloathed the animal with hair for the obvious purpofe of defending the Ikin from74 THE GREASE. the the conta6l of the atmofphere. Other membrane- ous parts, fuch as the noftrils and the eyes, are fhielded, with the fame intention, by peculiar fecreted fluids, which in a flate of health conftantly cover their furfaces. The inward furface of the noftrils is kept moift, in order to preferve the fenfe of fmelling ; and the outward furface of the eye is kept moift, in order to preferve its tranfparency. Both of thefe faculties would be deftroyed by the conta6f of atmofpheric air, which, by drying the furface of the noftril, would render it incapable of fmelling; and which alfo, by drying the furface of the eye, would corrugate it, and render it opaque by the multiplicity of refra&ions which would arife from its irregularity. As the body is thus defended with hair, it ac- cordingly follows that thofe parts which would, if they were naked, be moft expofed to water and dirt, are furnifhed with a greater portion of this covering. Hence the hair on the lower part of75 THE GREASE. the leg is confiderably longer than elfewhere. This is fufficiently manifeft in horfes which are bred in cold marfhy foils, fiich as Holland, Flanders, and many parts of England. If a leg of this defcription, with the hair on it in its natural ftate, is examined after palling through the dirtieft roads for feveral hours, when the hair is divided by the hand to infpedt the fkin, it will be found that the external part only is wet, whilft the internal part, together with the fkin, will have remained perfe6tly dry and free from dirt. In this ftate it will be only necelfary to wafh the dirt off the hair on the outfide, and leave it to dry by its own evaporation. On the other hand, if the hair has been cut off clofe to the heels, both water and dirt will have accefs to them, and when the paftern bends during progreflion, a very considerable fric- tion is produced, which mull confequently irritate the furface of the fkin. When the animal returns from his daily labour, the legs are wafhed with cold water, and except they are well rubbed with l 2 ftraw76 THE GREASE. the ftraw or the hand (a benefit which feldom falls to the lot of ordinary horfes) they are fuffered to become dry in a natural way; but whilft this eva- poration is going on, the legs are extremely cold for two or three hours, and the fkin being deprived of its own fluid, which it fecretes in order to pre- ferve its pliancy, becomes corrugated and inflamed, and fwelling of the cellular membrane enfues, with all its bad confequences. In obje£tion to this do&rine it will probably be argued, that blood horfes are not thus furnifhed with long hair on their legs. But it mull be con- fidered, that the blood liorfe is not originally the produce of this country. The climate in which he is generated is much warmer, and the furface of the foil is generally fandy and free from moif- ture. In this country, however, his legs are well prote£led by the clofenefs of the hair, for his Ikin, which is finer and more compaft: in its texture than that of the cart horfe, produces three hairs in the fame fpace as would be occupied by two only in77 THE GREASE; the latter. Independent of this property, his na- tural habit is more vigorous, and lefs fubje<5! to thofe difeafes which attend habits of the indolent and phlegmatic kind. The neceffity of a covering to the fkin of animals which are much expofed to the cold ele- ments, may, in an analagous point of view, be carried hill farther, viz. to water-fowl and fifh. The body of the firft is completely enveloped in feathers, which, being oily on their furfaces, repel water for a great length of time. The legs are defended by a fcaly coat. When the fowl is inclined to wafh his feathers, he rubs off the oil with his beak whilft in the water; but as foon as his feathers are dry, he oils them again by rubbing his beak again!! his rump, which fecretes a greafy fluid, and afterwards applies it to every part of his body. Fish,THE GREASE. 78 Fish, which are conftantly expofed to water, throw out, on the furface of their bodies, a mucus which prevents the conta6l of that element. In flight attacks of the greafe, a cure may gene- rally be effefted by employing fuch medicines in- ternally as will increafe the urinary and perfpiratory difcharges, and by attending to cleanlinefs and moderate exercife. The following ball may be given every other night for four or five nights: Emetic Tartar, - - 2 drachms Venice Turpentine, - § ounce Liquorice Powder, - 1 ounce Mixed together into one ball. The heels may be drefied at night, after being well wafhed with foft foap and warm water, with the following lotion: Vinegar, - - - half a pint Water, - - - half a pint White Vitriol, - one ounce Mixed. IfTHE GREASE. 79 If the difeafe has been of long duration, and has become exceedingly virulent in its effe&s, purges muft be adminiftered, and a rowel intro- duced in fome convenient part. The purging ball may confift of Aloes (Barbadoes) - 9 drachms Ginger, - - - - 1 drachm to be given when the horfe has been prepared for two days with bran mafhes ; warm water to drink during its operation, and alfo warm cloathing. The ball to be repeated in eight days. As the ulcers in the heels are generally more inveterate in a cafe of this kind, the following de- tergent lotion will be necelfary, viz. Nitrous Acid, - - - 1 ounce Water, 1 pint Mixed, to be applied every night. The following poul- tice will alfo prove beneficial: Powdered Charcoal and Oatmeal, equal quantities, made into a poultice with cold beer grounds., ,•- A- % ' ' ■ ,'v .If ' ■ . ' 1 , .a. . -X fh;m c^'iocj ■ ■ ' i '6V/ n > f i> ov/i ■ ' ' / ' ; , 1 ' .CHAPTER V. On LAMENESS. .■nxwg L AMEN ESS, which does not originate from any difeafe in the hoof, may be divided into three kinds, viz. of the mufcles, of the tendons and liga- ments, and of the bones. Lamenefs which has its feat in the bones, arifes from adventitious and difl eafed edifications in different parts of the extremi- ties, and which are commonly diftinguifhed by the following terms, viz. SPLENT, RING BONE, STIFF JOINT, or ANCHYLOSIS, BONE SPAVIN. The fplent is one of the moft common difeafes incident to the fore legs. The proximate caufe is M inflam-ON LAMENESS. 82 the inflammation in the bone, produced fometimes by concuflions of the limb from quick riding upon hard roads; or by blows from the oppofite leg during progreflion, which is called the fpeedy cut. It is a hard immoveable excrefcence, fltuated on the fhank bone, and moft frequently on the in fide of the leg. Vide plate 8, Jig. 2, letter A. It more generally attacks young horfes, their bones not having acquired the firmnefs which be- longs to a more advanced age. Splents are fup- pofed not to occafion lamenefs, unlefs they arife under a tendon or near a joint. Lamenefs, how- ever, will enfue from their exiftence in any fitua- tion. The bone of the leg, in common with all other bones, is furrounded by a firm inelaftic membrane, ftrongly adhering to its furface, and which is called Periofteum. When the bone is inflamed in any particular part, an increafed fecretion of bony matter is brought on in that part, and an enlargement ofON LAMENESS. 83 M 2 THE the bone confequently takes place. In this Hate, the bone (which, when free from difeafe, is per- fectly infenfible) becomes extremely irritable, and the pain which the animal experiences from the concuflion of the limb when it alights on the ground, is fufficient to occafion lamenefs. This fenfibility of the bone will continue until the periofteum yields, and adapts itfelf to the in- creafed fubftance which is contained within it. If the fplent is generated under a ligament, or under a tendon, it increafes the lamenefs; for, by difplacing the ligament, or the tendon, from their natural fituations, it more or lefs impedes their functions, until they adapt themfelves to their new direction. Inftances have occurred of an abforp- tion of fplents, without any external application; but cafes of this kind are fo rare, that it would not be prudent to truft to fo precarious an event. The bell mode of treatment conhfts in repeated blitters applied to the part, and cold water and bandage between the periods of their operation.ON LAMENESS. THE RING BONE Is an oflified enlargement of the letter pattern bone at a fmall diftance from the coronet of the hoof, fometimes producing a ftiff joint. Vide pL 8, fig. 3, letter c. The cartilages of the foot are alfo fometimes oflified. This laft difeafe occupies nearly the fame fltuation as the ring bone, but is totally dif- ferent from it. In the ring bone, the joint of the letter pattern is affe&ed. In the oflified cartilages, the lamenefs arifes from their having loft their elafticity. Blistering will fuffice for both cafes in an incipient ftate; but if they are of long ftanding, or very rapid in their progrefs, firing will be abfolutely neceffary. STIFFON LAMENESS. 85 STIFF JOINT, or ANCHYLOSIS, Is mo ft commonly the confequence of wounds through the capfular ligament of the joint. When the capfular ligament is perforated by any acci- dental injury, the fynovia or fluid, which is fecreted for the purpofe of lubricating the heads of the bones in their a£fion with each other, efcapes out- wards. Great irritation and inflammation attend this ftate of the wound, probably from the a£tion of the atmofpheric air which enters it. If the capfular ligament is not fpeedily healed, or its divided edges brought into conta6l with each other, fo as to prevent the fynovia from continuing to flow through the orifice, the membranes begin to thicken, and bony matter is thrown out from the heads of the bones, which unites them into one folid mafs, and the ufe of the joint is irrecoverablv loft. WoundsON LAMENESS. 8 6 Wounds of this defcription require a very dif- ferent treatment from all others; for relaxants and emollients tend but to increafe their bad pro- perties. As ligaments are not fo vafcular as mufcles, they are confequently much flower in forming granulations, or, in other words, they do not pof- fefs fo completely the powers of regeneration. Hence, as foon as it is afcertained that the ligament is perforated, the injured part fhould be {Emulated by an aftive cauftic, fuch as butter of antimony, or elfe by the application of the a£tual cautery to the edges of the wound. The external furface may be dreffed with common digeftive ointment, and the whole defended as much as podible from the air. BONE SPAVIN Takes place on the upper end of the bone of the hind leg, adjoining the lower and infide part of37 ON LAMENESS. of the hough, where it forms a round bony ex- crefcence. Vide plate 8, Jig. 6,1. F. The hough is more frequently the feat of lamenefs, than any other part of the hind leg; and young horfes, whofe houghs hand obliquely, which is commonly termed cow-houghed (vide pi. 4,fig. 1) are particularly fubjeft; to this complaint. It is produced generally by fome partial exertion in the hough bringing on inflammation and a depofition of bony matter. The lower part of the joint of the hough is compofed of feveral fmall bones, which, though they are exa£lly fitted to each other, and occupy one common cavity, yet poflefs a diflin£l feparate motion independent of each other. The utility of this conformation con fills in furnifhing greater elaflicity to the joint than it would have pofiefTed had this part been compofed of one folid mafs. When the inflammatory attack commences in this part, offeous matter is thrown out, and an union of88 ON LAMENESS. of thefe fmall bones enfues, forming together a hard fubftance, perceptible not only to the touch, but to the eye. When an union of thefe bones has taken place, their original individual motion and elafticity will be loft, and the refult will be an incurable lamenefs. The favorable crifis for the removal of this complaint is on its firft attack, before the exoftofis is formed, for a horfe will frequently be lame for a confiderable time before the fpavin makes its appearance. But an unac- countable propenfity which grooms and farriers have to fix upon either the whirl-bone or the ftifle, as the feat of lamenefs in the hind extremities, induces them to apply the remedy to thofe parts; and during the time which is wafted in this in- judicious procefs, a fpavin is formed beyond the poftibility of being eradicated. A cure is often attempted by the application of cauftics, and even by the mallet and duffel; but as neither of thefe methods will feparate the fmall bones which have been united into one mafs, and thereby reftore their former functions, they confequently will be foundON LAMENESS, found ufelefs. Frequent blitters fhould be reforted to on the firft attack, and if thefe do not fucceed* the part fhould be fired without lofs of time. Lameness in the ligamentary and tendinous parts confifts of STRAINS of the SHEATH of the TENDONS, RUPTURE of the SUSPENSOR LIGAMENTS of the LEG, THOROUGH PINS, BLOOD SPAVINS, BOG SPAVINS, CURBS, i WINDGALLS, INJURY in the COFFIN JOINT, INJURY in the WHIRL-BONE, INJURY in the STIFLE. STRAIN of the SHEATH of the TENDONS. I his will probably be better underftood by the common term of ftrain in the back finews, which generally lhews itfelf on the back part of the leg above the fetlock. Vide plate 8,fg. i, l. B. n ItON LAMENESS. 9° It may be brought on by fudden and violent exertion, or by a blow from the toe of the hind foot, which accident often occurs in hunting over heavy land, in which cafe the fore leg is prevented from extricating itfelf in time to avoid the toe of the hind leg. The injury very rarely exifts in the tendon itfelf, but is more commonly confined to the fheath which furrounds it. Camphorated fpirits of wine well rubbed on the part affe£led, and a moderately tight bandage dipt in cold water, will effe£l a cure, if applied immediately. But if the complaint has been of long dura- tion, fo as to have become callous, repeated bliflers will be neceffary. RUPTURE of the SUSPENSOR LIGAMENTS of the LEG. This may happen to either the fore or hind leg. It is generally and improperly fuppofed to conftituteON LAMENESS. 9* conttitute a rapture of the tendon or back fmews. When the fufpenfor ligaments are ruptured, the fetlock joint is incapable of preferving its natural oblique pofition, on which account it becomes fo horizontal as nearly to touch the ground. But as the flexor mufcles flill poffefs the power of bending the leg (which they could not do if the tendons were ruptured) it is manifeft that the ligaments, whofe office it is to maintain the proper pofition and connexion of the fhank and pattern bones, are alone the parts affedled. A perfedt recovery is feldom obtained, from the impradficability of con- fining the limb in a manner that would be mott favourable to a re-union of the divided parts. A fhoe with a high heel, and a bandage round the leg, are the mott likely means of promoting a cure* The re-union of the ligament, however, does not reftore the original pofition of the leg, the horfe, therefore, decreafes much in value. N 2 WINDGALLSON LAMENESS. 92 WINDGALLS Present themfelves in the form of fmall puffy fwellings above the fetlock joint, and are common to both fore and hind legs. Vide pi S9Jig. 2, /. D. They are conftituted by the relaxation of the burfa mucofa, and are produced by hard labour, and, probably in a great meafure, by the horfe being obliged to Hand up hill in the flail of the liable. Blistering, reft, and a level pavement, are the bell remedies*. * I have had opportunities of afcertaining the good effects of a level pavement in reftoring a horfe’s legs, in the ftables of a Nobleman in War- wicklhire, who does me the honour to employ me. A horfe which his Lordfhip purchafed, had all his legs confiderably affe&ed with windgalls, which totally difappeared in fix months, without the afliftance of any external application whatever. THOROUGH93 ON LAMENESS* THOROUGH PIN Is a difeafe of the fame nature as the windgall. Its fituation is in the hough, and may be diflin- guifhed by a fmall round fwelling, which yields to the prelfure of the finger. Vide pi, 5, L I. It is brought on by the fame caufes as the windgall, and requires the fame treatment. BLOOD SPAVIN* The difeafe fo called is fimply a relaxation of the vein running over the front of the hough. Vide plate S3Jig, 6, l, G. It very rarely occurs, and never produces lamenefs; but it is commonly miftaken for another complaint, denominated the BOG SPAVIN, Which confifts of an inflammation and diflen- fion of the burfa mucofa, or the part furrounding the94 ON LAMENESS. LAMENESS the ligament of the hough. This enlargement occafions a protrufion of the vein which lies im- mediately upon it, and hence the difeafe has been erroneoufly fuppofed to occupy the vein. Repeated blifters are here alfo necelfary. THE CURB Is manifefled by a fwelling on the back part of the hough. Vide pi. 5, H. It is occalioned by a ftrain in the annular ligament or Iheath of the tendons, the office of which is to keep the tendons in their proper fituations. This complaint prevails moft among young horfes, particularly thofe which are cow-houghed. Blisters muff be employed alfo in this cafe.95 ON LAMENESS. LAMENESS ■*» LAMENESS in the STIFLE Seldom occurs, except from external injury, in which cafe it makes itfelf apparent by the fuel- ling of the furrounding parts. Camphorated fpirits of wine may be applied once daily until a cure is effe£led. LAMENESS in the WHIRL-BONE, Or the Articulation of the Thigh Bone with the Pelvis. In this cafe the ligaments of the joint are pro- bably principally affe£ted. The whole part, how- ever, is furrounded by fuch maffy and powerful mufcles, as to be prote&ed, in a confiderable de- gree, from injury. When the animal is lame in this fituation, he drags the leg after him on the toe. Camphorated fpirits of wine will be found ufeful in a recent cafe ; in an old injury, recourfe mu ft be had to blifters.ON LAMENESS. 96 LAMENESS in the COFFIN JOINT. Although the feat of this lamenefs is within the hoof, yet, as the ligaments of the joint are the parts affe£ted, it was thought molt proper to clafs it with ligamentary lamenefs. From its fituation, it is the moll dangerous lamenefs that can befal a horfe, and it is very rarely overcome, except the remedy is applied on the commencement of the malady. It is ufually to be difcovered by the fen- fation of great heat round the coronet, by the horfe not bringing his heel to the ground, and by his Handing with.his leg advanced before him as much as pofhble. The fame propenfity which farriers have to afcribe the lamenefs of the hinder quarters to the whirl-bone and the ftifle, prevails alfo in this cafe; for except they can feel fome enlargement or ex- ternal mark of injury in the leg, they always fix upon the fhoulder as the part affe6led. UnderON LAMENESS; 97 Under that perfuafion they apply the remedy to the fhoulder, during which time the difeafe be- comes incurable ; for although the ligaments of the coffin joint might recover by reft, yet the means which the animal himfelf employs for that purpofe, namely, by Handing with the lame leg advanced before him, brings on a contra&ion of the hoof, which, in its confequences, is equally as detrimental as the firft complaint. Blifters fhould be applied to the coronet on the firft appearance of lamenefs, and repeated as occafion may require. MUSCULAR LAMENESS Includes all diforganization of the mufcles of the extremities, whether from external injury, im- moderate exertion, or lofs of tone from the in. fluence of cold, producing rheumatifm or fpafm. The ffioulder is fometimes impeded in its aftion by mufcular lamenefs, which may arife from a blow, or from violent extenfion of the leg in palling o over98 ON LAMENESS. over a flippery furface. It is diftinguifhed from lamenefs in any other part by the horfe’s dragging his toe, and defcribing a circular motion outwards with the leg, which motion is occafioned by the want of action in the pe£toral and adductor mufcles, on which account the abdu6lor mufcles a£t alone without refiftance from the addu6tors, and draw the leg outwards when the animal is put into mo- tion. Camphorated fpirits of wine may be rubbed on the fide of the cheft and under the arm of the lame leg, daily until a cure is effe£led. RHEUMATISM. As it is difficult, perhaps impoffible, to afcertain the exiftence of this complaint, it will be unnecef- fary to treat upon it. SPASM Is rarely a partial affe&ion, but generally attacks the whole frame, producing univerfal rigidity and lofs99 ON LAMENESS. lofs of motion in the mufcles. This being con- ne£ted with internal caufes, the cure will depend principally on the adminiftration of fudorifics, viz. emetic tartar, two drachms every night, until the fymptoms are removed. STRINGHALT Is caufed probably by a convulfive a£lion of the flexor mufcles of the hind leg, whereby the leg is raifed higher, and bended more in the hough and ftifle than is neceffary. An attempt to explain its origin would, perhaps, tend neither to its elu- cidation nor to its removal. RECAPITULATION. In concluding this chapter it will be proper to Rate, that a peculiar conformation of the limbs renders a horfe more fubje£l to lamenefs of one kind than another. Thus horfes with fhort patterns, and whofe fore legs incline much under the body, o 2 areON LAMENESS. IOO are moft liable to bony excrefcences, fuch as fplents, ring bones, and offitied cartilages of the foot, all of which, in a great meafure, arife from concuffion, for a horfe whofe legs Hand far under him, will put them down during progreffion in a perpendicular direction, whence the concuffion will be greater than when the leg is advanced before the body, and alights in an oblique direction. Contracted heels alfo are generally the fruits of this conforma- tion. Horfes with long patterns are more liable to ligamentary lamenefs than others; but as the great length of the pattern gives more pliancy and elafticity, they are confequently lefs expofed to thofe difeafes of the bones which arife from con- cuffion, fuch as fplents, ring bones, &c. Horses which are cow-houghed are particu- larly fubjeCt to fpavins, curbs, and thorough pins, owing to the malpofition of their legs. The tendency to lamenefs of every defcription is greatly aggravated by the acclivity of the ttall of theON LAMENESS. TOI the liable, and by working the animal at too early an age. In the mode of treatment recommended in the foregoing cafes, it will perhaps be remarked, that the formulas do not polfefs much variety ; but in cafes where an immediate effect is required, it is certainly bell to employ thofe remedies, the efficacy of which has been eflabliffied by experi- ence, than to wafte time in fruitlefs experiments with lefs a£live materials. Therefore, as lamenefs arifing from difeafe in the bones, whether it occu- pies the coronet of the foot, or the hough of the hind leg, may be reduced to the fame principles, it follows that the fame prefcription will be adapted for the attainment of a cure in either cafe. Farmers and breeders of horfes ride them from three years of age, until their legs and feet, from premature exertion, are fo much injured as to render their foundnefs doubtful, and this (late often comes on before they are fix years old. Under thefe circumftances they are offered for fale, and generally warranted perfe&ly found. But although fuchON LAMENESS. 102 fuch horfes do not manifeft lamenefs in any par- ticular leg, by a want of harmony in their motion, yet their injured Hate may be detected by their ttepping fhort with their fore legs, and prefling principally on the toe; and upon examining their legs when Handing Hill, if the patterns (particularly long ones) appear perpendicular, and not oblique in their dire&ion, or if the fetlock joint knuckles over, or in other words, bends forwards, little doubt may be entertained of their being unfound. CHAPTERCHAPTER VL On WOUNDS. There is no part of the modern pra&ice of farriery in which the animal is more injudicioufly treated, than in that which relates to wounds, and this appears the more extraordinary,when it is confidered that this branch of the difeafes of the horfe is much more oftenfible than thofe which are internal, and confequently lefs liable to uncertainty and mif- conception. But it is here, as it is in every other cafe where the pra6litioner a£ls without polfeffing the rudiments of his art; for although he has the fame remedies within his reach, yet he will rarely fucceed in his application of them. Wounds which are incident to horfes, are generally unconnefted with any fpecific difeafe, except in the cafes of farcy and glanders, and upon this ground the mode ofON WOUNDS. 104 of treatment muft be plain and fimple. It appears to have been a primordial provifion of nature, to have endowed animals with the faculty of repara- tion of fuch parts of their bodies as have been injured and diforganized by accidental violence. This faculty is more perfe6l in brutes than in man, and exifts in a different degree of perfection in different claffes, in fome, even to the power of complete regeneration of an amputated part, as in the lizard, the crab, and the polypus. In the prac- tice of furgery, the catalogue of falves, ointments, &c. has been, of late years, very judicioufly cur- tailed. Practitioners have difeovered, that the common pretence of affifting nature, has but too often proved the means of counteracting her en- deavours. It is much to be lamented, that the fame improvement has not extended to the veteri- nary art. In all recent injuries, the firft procefs which nature employs is an increafed aCtion in the part affeCted. For, as an injured part is rendered weaker, either by a lofs of tone or a lofs of fub- ftance, it is evident that a re-eftablifhment of its original105 ON WOUNDS. original organization cannot be effe&ed without very confiderable efforts in the fyftem. Hence inflammation almoft always fucceeds injury, in proportion, either with the extent of the mifchief, or its fltuation, or the greater or lefs irritability of the patient. In trifling accidents, the degree of inflammation is fo fmall as to require no attention; but in wounds of greater magnitude, or of parts moft effential to life, the inflammation will be more ferious, and will demand greater {kill in the treatment. As, therefore, inflammation, to a cer- tain degree, is the natural bafls of reftoration, it remains to point out the proper mode of regulating it, fo as to prevent the bad effe£ls either of its excefs, or of its want of fufficient a&ivity. In the firfi; of thefe cafes, mortification will be the con- fequence; in the laft, callofity and fchirrus, or permanent diforganization. Wounds may be di- vided into two claffes, namely, fimple and com- p Theio 6 ON WOUNDS, The fimple wound confifts of a divifion of mufcular parts, either by laceration or a fharp cutting inftrument. The compound wound con- fifts of an affe£lion of more than one part at the fame time, viz. mufcle, tendon, ligament, and bone. In the fimple wound, the firft ftep fhould be to afcertain the depth of it, and alfo to difcover whether any extraneous fubftance is lodged with- in it. This is particularly neceffary in cafes where horfes have been flaked in leaping over hedges. If there is no extraneous body within it, and the mufcular parts alone are injured, or if any pieces of the flake are difcovered, and carefully extra£led, nothing more will be required than to bring the divided furfaces of the wound as clofe together as poflible, and to defend it from the air : nature will perform the reft very fpeedily. If, however, the patient is very fat and plethoric, and has not loft much blood from the wound, bleeding will be neceffary. ThisON WOUNDS. 107 This is called union by the firft intention, that is, without the neceffity of matter being formed for that purpofe. Here, therefore, it appears that nothing more is neceffary than to regulate the inflammation. But the common pra6lice in this cafe is to keep the furfaces of the wound apart from each other, by introducing a fubflance be- tween them, fuch as a candle, or a tent of tow dipped in fome flrong flimulating mixture; and this is done with a view to the production of good matter. The mifchief arifing from fuch treatment mull be obvious to every rational mind, for the firfl procefs of nature, in this inftance, will be an endeavour to get rid of the fubflance which is thus officioufly interpofed between the furfaces, and in this attempt the inflammation is carried to an excefBve degree, very frequently to mortifica- tion. But even if the animal efcapes this unfor- tunate crifis, nature becomes weary in making fruitlefs efforts, and the furfaces of the wound change their nature, and become callous and in- a&ive, producing a difeafed abfcefs incapable of p 2 cicatrx-10S ON WOUNDS. cicatrization. In this Hate of the wound it is ne- ceffary to deftroy the callous furface, either by the knife or by caufiic, in which proceffes the animal is put to great pain, and nature generally employs treble the time in performing by this artificial and mifapplied treatment, that which fhe could have effe6ted with eafe and expedition, if left to her own uninterrupted operations. THE COMPOUND WOUND Requires, in fome refpe&s, a different treat- ment from that of the fimple wound. For as the different parts which may be affefted by the fame injury (for inftance, mufcle and bone) poffefs a different action in themfelves, it is neceffary to affimilate them as much as poffible to each other. Thus, when the bone is injured at the bottom of a wound, and inevitably expofed to the air, a certain procefs called exfoliation, muff be carried on be- fore it can be reftored to health. This exfoliation is fimply the operation whereby the living bone throwsON WOUNDS. 109 throws off the dead furface ; but as bone is much more tedious in its efforts of refioration than mufcle, it follows that the mufcular parts will unite and heal long before the bone has completed its procefs. In this cafe, that part of the bone which is detached becomes an extraneous body, producing new inflammation and a frefh abfcefs. This, therefore, demonftrates the necefiity of allowing a fufficient length of time for the bone to exfoliate, by preventing the mufcular parts from uniting over it, and in this cafe (and this only) tents are to be employed. Th ese may be dipped in common digeftive ointment, and the furface of the wound fhould be kept clean and defended from the air. In matters of this kind, which require Ikill and experience, the proprietor of a horfe would probably find it moft to his intereft to call in profeflional afliftance. As this branch of the veterinary art would require a much110 ON WOUNDS. a much more extenfive detail than the obje£l of the prefent work could embrace, and as it would alfo afford but little information to that clafs of my readers for whom it was principally intended, it will perhaps be fufficient to have pointed out the common errors attending it, and thereby to fhew the neceflity of a more rational mode of praftice. CHAPTERCHAPTER VII. On RESPIRATION. R.ESPIRATION confids in the inhalation and exhalation of atmofpheric air into the lungs of man and quadrupeds, or analagous vifcera of other animals; part of the air is there abforbed, and another part is exhaled, but is altered in its pro- perties, only part returning in the date of at- mofpheric air, and the remainder in the date of fixed or carbonic acid air, and of phlogidicated or azotic air, accompanied with a condderable quan- tity of moidure. It is not necedary here to explain the ufes of refpiration in the animal oeconomy, that having been already done by feveral eminent phyfiologids, but to fhew the peculiarities of the organs dedined to that fun£tion in the horfe. TheON RESPIRATION. 112 The pofterior part of the mouth or throat of the horfe is fo conftrudted as almoft entirely to prevent the return of air through its cavity, or, in other words, precludes expiration. Thus, although he can receive air through his mouth, he returns it only through his nofe. Hence the horfe always manifefts great uneafinefs when he is held by the noftrils, as under thofe circumftances he naturally dreads fuffocation. From the pofterior part of the roof of the mouth a membrane defcends, the extreme edge of which lies on the furface of the tongue. This membrane is called Velum palati, and one of its ufes is to prevent the food and water from returning through the nofe in their paflage to the ftomach. This membrane, in the human being, terminates in a defcending point, termed the Uvula; but in the horfe it preferves one regular form, on which ac- count the animal has no uvula, the whole of the velum reaching down to the root of the tongue, and refting upon it. Immediately behind the velumON RESPIRATION. 1 *3 velum palati is fituated a cartilaginous fubftance of a triangular pointed fhape, having its bafe attached to the root of the tongue in the horfe, which is denominated the Epiglottis. Its office is to cover the orifice of the trachea or windpipe in the aftion of deglutition. The epiglottis is conftantly elevated by its own elafticity, and never covers the trachea, except at the moment when it is prefled downwards by the food palling over it. When it is elevated, it turns back with its upper furface immediately againft and behind the velum palati, with which it enters into clofe con- tact in fuch a manner, that it forms a valve, pre- venting the return of air, or any fubftance whatever, through the mouth. (Vide plate 9, letters C and E.) Thus it may always be obferved that the horfe, even during the molt violent exertions, never opens his mouth for the purpofe of breathing, but performs it folely through his nofe, on which account his noftrils are wider in proportion than in other animals, which, when urged by exercife. o or114 ON RESPIRATION. or otherwife when requiring more air, open their mouths for its freer admiflion. The horfe has a peculiarity in the formation of his noftrils which deferves notice, each noflrii being divided by a feptum, on one fide of which is the canal which communicates with the throat and lungs, on the other fide of the feptum is a canal or fac, which may be called the falfe noflrii, which reaches upwards about four or five inches, and is imperforate (vide plate 9, letter H); but for about two inches of that depth the feptum is flit up, and the edges of the flit are fringed with fhort hairs; the particular ufe of this conformation has not yet been pointed out, and remains a problem for the phyfiologifts. When the horfe infpires, this part is filled with air, which remains ftationary until the aft of expiration, at which time it pafles back again in conjunftion with that which is returned from the lungs. The inflation of this cavity gives to the animal that animated appear- ance obfervable upon various occafions. InON RESPIRATION. 115 In other refpe£ts, the organs of refpiration differ but little from thofe of the human being, except that the diaphragm is much more mufcular, and fituated more obliquely, by which means the ftomach lies below it, although the body is in an horizontal pofition. This inclination of the dia- phragm renders the refiftance of the ftomach and inteftines lefs powerful than if it were placed in a more perpendicular dire&ion. When the lungs collapfe, this diaphragm is flackened, but in the a£t of infpiration it is tightened fo as to force back the contents of the abdomen, by which means the capacity of the cheft is enlarged. This is per- formed partly by its own mufcular contra6lion, and partly by the expanfion of the ribs, whereby the lateral points from whence the diaphragm takes its origin, are removed farther from each other. This being the natural procefs of refpiration, it will not be difficult to conceive how much it muft be impeded when the faddle is girthed ex- tremely tight, or too far back towards the flank; Q 2 but116 ON RESPIRATION. but this inconvenience does not end with the re- moval of the faddle, for the horfe is conftantly girthed with a tight furcingle whilft he is in the liable, with a view to keep up his belly. In either of thefe lituations, refpiration is carried on prin- cipally by the a£lion of the diaphragm, as the in- tercoftal mufcles cannot perform their office. Old horfes are fo fenfible of this inconveni- ence, that, during the a£l of girthing, they fwell out their chelts as much as poffible, by which means the girths become Hack when the chelf re- turns to its former dimenfions. The horfe is more frequently attacked with in- flammation of the lungs than any other quadruped. This may probably arife from the abufes and irre- gularities which he is obliged to fubmit to in his domefticated Hate, for by cloathing and the un- natural temperature of the liable, he is rendered much more fufceptible of cold than he would be under other circumllances. When the attack is violent,117 ON RESPIRATION. the violent, the inflammation is frequently fo great as to produce mortification in a few hours, and even if it is overcome by bleeding and medicine, it generally lays the foundation for a permanent cough or broken wind. This may be brought on by an effufion of water in the ched, or by lymph being thrown out into the cells of the lungs, and poffibly by a paralyfis of the diaphragm, or by the dedru&ion of part of the lungs in confequence of the inflammation. In any of thefe cafes refpira- tion will be laborious, and the animal will become unfit for violent exertion. However, the mod: common appearance of the lungs in broken-winded horfes, is a general thickening of their fubdance, by which their eladicity is, in a great meafure, dedroyed, and their weight fpecifically increafed, at the fame time that their capacity for receiving air is diminifhed. During life, the lungs entirely fill the cavity of the ched, fo as to leave no fpace between their outward furface and the inward fur- face of the ribs; thus they dilate and contra£l, following up by their own eladicity the action of118 ON RESPIRATION, the ribs and diaphragm. Hence it is probable, that adhefions of the lungs to the ribs are not fo injurious to refpiration as might be imagined. If the cheft is pun£tured in the dead fubjeft, the external air rufhes in, and the lungs collapfe; but if the horfe was broken-winded, the lungs do not collapfe, which proves that they have loft their elafticity. This ftate of the lungs fufticiently accounts for the difficulty of refpiration, for, as their faculty of dilatation is deftroyed, the ribs cannot expand without forming a vacuum in the cheft, which the preflure of the external atmofphere prevents, which may be readily perceived in the cafe of broken wind, for then the intercoftal mufcles are fo ftrongly retraced, as to form a deep furrow between every rib, as well as a depreflion in the flanks. On this account, air is received into the lungs with great difficulty, but its expulfion is not fo difficult, as the return of the ribs and diaphragm naturally force it out by their preflure. Thus, in broken-winded horfes, infpiration is very flow, but expira-ON RESPIRATION. *19 expiration is fudden and rapid, as may be feen by the flanks returning with a jerk. If there is water in the cheff, the horfe never lies down, as the preffure which would take place in that fituation, would produce fuffocation inftantly. The foregoing are the general fymptoms at- tendant on broken wind: it remains to inquire into the lefs violent affections of the lungs. The moil frequent of thefe are manifefted by coughs, which may be divided into the inflammatory and chronic kinds. In the inflammatory cough there is generally fome difcharge from the lungs, but in the confirmed chronic cough there is feldom any difcharge whatever. As the horfe does not ex- peClorate through his mouth, the mucus of the lungs is coughed up into the nofe, from whence it is afterwards difcharged by the aCtion of fnorting or fneezing. Hence, if a horfe fnorts after he coughs, he is generally fuppofed to be (although the reafon is not known) found in thofe vifcera. In the human fubjeCI, afthma is commonly divided into120 ON RESPIRATION. into two kinds, the humoral and the fpafmodic. Veterinary pra£tice has not hitherto furnilhed any proofs, that the horfe is fubjeft to afthma of the Ipafmodic kind; and from what may be colle&ed from the fymptoms of broken wind, it is probable that the latter difeafe in horfes is totally different from the afthma in the human being. For the attacks of afthma are ufually periodical, whereas the effects of broken wind are conftant, though not always oqual, their violence being increafed by exercife, which naturally demands more fre- quent and more copious refpiration, as well as by fome other caufe. Diffe&ions of the dead fubjeft afford little or no proof of the nature or exiftence of nervous complaints, hence it is not poflible to afcertain whether a paralyfis of the diaphragm may conftitute one caufe of broken wind. We muft therefore recur to fuch caufes as admit of ocular demonftration, and, of thefe, none are fo diftintl as the general thickening of the fubftance of the lungs, juft mentioned. WithON RESPIRATION. I 2 I With regard to water in the cheft, it is fre- quently problematical, on examination of the dead fubjeCt, whether the extravafation took place before or after death. Another imperfection which may be included in the clafs of difeafed refpiration, is the found which arifes in breathing, with fome horfes, when their pace is accelerated. A horfe of this defcrip- tion is termed a Roarer. From my own obferva- tion, I have not been able to difcover whether its fource is in the lungs, the trachea, or the nofe, though it is probable its feat is in the trachea or larynx. Dealers have a method of ascertaining the exigence of the difeafe by {hiking the horfe under the belly with a whip, and turning him Suddenly round at the fame time. If he groans during this procefs, they fay it proves that he is a roarer. This is probably occafioned by the fudden contraction of the abdominal mufcles forcing air from the lungs through the trachea with greater rapidity, in con- fequence of the pain he feels from the ftroke of the r whip.ON RESPIRATION. 122 whip, as well as from the bending of the ribs in the a£tion of turning round in a fmall compafs. This difeafe prevails to a different degree in different fub- je£fo; in its commencement it is generally manifefl- ed by a whiffling noife, but in the confirmed ftate it is more fonorous, and refembles deep groaning. In either cafe it has hitherto remained incurable. The orifice of the trachea is frequently injured by the cuftom of pinching it with the hand, to difcover, by the manner of coughing, whether or not a horfe is found in his wind. A cafe of this kind occurred during my refidence at the veterinary college. A horfe was brought to the infirmary which was affli&ed with an exceflive difficulty of breathing, accompanied with great noife from the noftrils, and a copious difcharge of faliva from the mouth. As the horfe eat and drank as ufual, and in all other refpe£ls was in perfe6l health, it was fufpe&ed that the laborious refpiration arofe from fome obftru&ion about the larynx, or at the en- trance into the nafal cavities. In order to give immediate123 ON RESPIRATION. immediate relief, Mr. St. Bel, who was at that time profelfor, performed the operation of bronchotomy, or, in other words, made an opening into the windpipe about four inches from the lower jaw\ Into this opening a leaden tube was introduced, which was kept in its fituation by a ligature round the neck. The animal was inftantly relieved, and refpiration was carried on entirely through this hole in the trachea. The tube was removed and cleaned every day, and the horfe appeared perfe6tly eafy in every refpeft for nearly three weeks, until the ligature happening to get loofe in the night, the tube dropped out, and he was fuffocated. On dilfe&ion, it appeared that the membrane lining the mouth of the windpipe was fo thickened, as to have entirely filled up the cavity, and thereby pre- vented the air from palling and repalling freely. As free refpiration is the balls of health and vigour, fo will the contrary produce general de- bility. Thus, the digeftive powers of the ftomach being weaker in horfes that are broken-winded, R 2 flatulency124 ON RESPIRATION. flatulency is produced, and the air which is gene- rated in the inteftines makes its efcape backwards whenever the animal coughs. This circumftance probably gave birth to the ridiculous cuflom of making an artificial and fupplementary anus, with a view of facilitating the egrefs of the wind, which was erroneoufiy fuppofed to be the caufe of the difeafe. Broken-winded horfes are commonlv much better at grafs than in the liable. This arifes from their being furrounded with a more falubrious atmofphere, and from the green food being more eafy of digellion than hay and corn. On this account carrots are given to horfes of this defcrip- tion with advantage. Some horfes acquire a habit of biting their manger, accompanied with a convulfive motion of the windpipe; in the language of the liable, they are diftinguifhed by the name of Crib-biters. During this a£lion, it is fuppofed that they fuck air into the llomach; but feveral reafons may be adduced to prove that this is not the fa6t. HorsesON RESPIRATION. I25 Horses which are addi£ted to this habit, generally perform it whilft they are mafticating their food. During the convulfion there is a great lofs of faliva, which efcapes whilil the mouth is open and fixed upon the edge of the manger. As the faliva is a very eflential agent in digeftion, it will be reafonable to conclude that the lofs of it mult be prejudicial to the animal, inafmuch as the digeftive powers of the ftomach will be infufficient for their proper functions, From this caufe, therefore, enfues the flatulence, or colle6lion of wind in the ftomach and inteftines of horfes of this defcription. Again, that the wind is not drawn into the ftomach through the mouth and oefophagus, may be proved by the mechanifm of the organs of refpiration, which have been defcribed. If the animal fucked in air during the a£lion of crib-biting, it muft neceftarily enter the lungs, as the orifice of the windpipe is always open, except at the moment of deglutition, and air cannot be fucked inwards without126 ON RESPIRATION. without a cavity being formed for its reception, as is the cafe in infpiration. The only way in which air could enter the ftomach would be by the aftion of fwallowing; but air could not be fwallowed whilft the mouth was open. This dif- eafe, therefore, feems to confift in a fpafmodic affe&ion of the oefophagus and trachea, excited by fome fympathy with the mufcles of the jaws. But from whatever caufe the habit of crib-biting may arife, it is always deemed incurable. It is cuftomary, however, to buckle a ftrap round the upper part of the neck, in order to pre- vent the movement of the windpipe. A horfe fubje£l to this complaint decreafes much in value, as he is generally lean and emaciated, and there- fore incapable of performing much labour. He alfo wears out his teeth, whereby he is prevented from grazing properly. It is a prevailing opinion amongft grooms, that a horfe’s wind may be affe6ted by giving him too 4I27 ON RESPIRATION. too much water, and under this impreflion they would (if poffible) deprive him of it entirely. It certainly is not prudent to permit the animal to drink very copioufly immediately before he is put into motion, as the increafed dimenfions of the ftomach would confine his powers of refpiration. But this furnifhes no reafon why he fhould not be allowed a fufficient quantity at proper periods. The food which he takes in the liable is perfe&ly dry, and very different from what he would eat in a Hate of nature, confequently he will require more fluids for the purpofes of digeftion. The great confumption of perfpirable fluid which the horfe experiences during exercife, alfo renders a proper fupply of water abfolutely neceffary. The imper- fect digeftion in horfes that are thick-winded, pro- duces fermentation and an unnatural heat in the ftomach, on which account horfes of this defcrip- tion are more eager for water, and that in propor- tion to the privation of it. ItON RESPIRATION. 128 It is cuftomary to water them twice daily, viz. in the morning and in the evening; the quantity, a pailful at each time. But it would be much more beneficial to give them half a pailful at four times, inftead of double that quantity at twice. chapterCHAPTER VIII. On the Structure and (Economy of the STABLE, the horfe, in order to appropriate him more imme- diately to our fervice, it furely becomes not only incumbent on humanity, but elTential to private intereft, to employ fuch modes of treatment as are moll likely to contribute to his health and com- fort. With this view it fhould firft be confidered, that, in this Hate of fubjugation, the animal ex- periences a total change in his natural habits, not only with regard to his lodging, but alfo to the quality of his food. Under thefe circumftances, it will not be fur- priling that he fhould be expofed to many difeafes, it has been found neceflary to domefticate s to130 ON THE STABLE. to which, in a ftate of nature, he would not be fubjeft. The extraordinary exertions which are fre- quently required of him, from cafes either of neceffity or amufement, are fuch as he could not endure, if he were not prepared by daily exercife and the moft nourifhing diet. But the majority of the world ufe him as a machine, the powers of which they conceive to be inexhauftible, and hence arife fuch fhameful abufes of one of the bell ani- mals in the brute creation. Nothing can be a greater reproach to mankind than the appearance of a poft-horfe. This miferable and patient crea- ture fhews how far our feelings can be blunted by cuftom. The wretched animal is feldom reduced to the condition of a poft-horfe, until fome bodily im- perfe&ion has rendered him unfit for the purpofes of parade or amufement. In this fituation he is configned, by his mercilefs owner, for a paltry confideration, to perform double labour, with the lofs of half his original ability, until at length nature,ON THE STABLE. ijt nature, overcome by continued injuries, finks un- der the burthen, and he is converted into food for his late alfociates the dogs. This termination of mifery is accelerated as much by improper management, as it is by excelfive fatigue. But cuftom, the tyrant of ordinary minds, has fan&ioned numerous rules in the ceconomy of the liable, which a moment’s reflexion would be fufhcient to explode. Great obllacles to a thorough reformation in this refpeft, will always arife from the obllinacy and ignorance of thofe to whofe care the animal is entrulled. It therefore behoves the proprietor to exert his authority, by enforcing obedience to fuch maxims as his own better judg- ment mull naturally diclate, and this will be bell effe&ed by vifiting the liable at uncertain periods, whereby improper practices will be more liable to dete£lion. In defcribing the particulars moll neceflary to be attended to in this important branch of the s 2 prefentON THE STABLE; 132 prefent fubje£l, it will be expedient to begin with the Hru6lure of the liable. The principal errors in this department confiH, generally, in the want of ventilation, deficiency of light, narrownefs of the Halls, and the declivity of their pavement. Ventilation is of the greateft importance, inafmuch as the health of the animal is moll ma- terially conne6led with it. The impolfibility of excluding air from fpace (except by exhauHion) is a fortunate circumftance for the horfe, as it fruf- trates, in fome degree, the attempts which are con- llantly pra£lifed to prevent its entrance into the liable, even by Hopping the key hole of the door. This cuHom originates among grooms, from the motive of giving to the animal the fame appear- ance in his coat in winter, as it generally puts on in fummer. Such a perverfion of the laws of nature is produ61ive of certain bad confequences, which the following obfervations will tend to demonHrate. ForON THE STABLE. *33 For this purpofe, it will firft be requifite to defcribe the fource from whence animal heat is produced, and maintained in a degree fufficient for the fupport of life. This fource is atmofpherical air, and the mode whereby it is applied to the vital organs of animal bodies is by refpiration. A certain part of this air combines with the blood in the lungs, and by fome chemical a<5tion, not yet thoroughly underltood, furnifhes heat to the whole frame. But, as in this climate the heat of the animal is greater than that of the air by which he is furrounded, it follows, from the known laws of heated bodies, that there is a conftant emiffion of heat from the horfe, which is abforbed by and warms the cooler air with which he is in conta£t. Along with the heat, a quantity of moifture conftantiy efcapes from the pores of the {kin, which, when the animal is at reif, and not kept too clofe, is in- fenfible to our organs ; but when he is put into violent motion, or kept too hot, it becomes fenfible in the form of fweat, or of {teams ilfuing from his fkin. The134 ON THE STABLE. The fenfible perfpiration is greatly augmented whenever the air furrounding him is not changed fufficiently quickly to enable it to abforb the moif- ture as it is perfpired, therefore when the horfe goes with the wind, he fweats more than when he goes againft it, becaufe, in the firft inftance, he is conftantly furrounded by the vapour which flies off from the furface of his body, whereas, in the latter cafe, the wind, meeting him, drives it behind him. Beasts of chace appear, either from inftinCfc or fome other caufe, to be fenfible of this difference, for they almoft invariably run with the wind, whereby they, in a great meafure, carry their fcent with them; they are alfo, by this means, better en- abled to hear the cry of their purfuers. The al- ternate aClion of the production of heat by the combination of air with the blood in the lungs and arteries, and the throwing it out from the body by perfpiration, is carried on without intermiffion during health. FromON THE STABLE. >35 From what has been faid, it appears that the heat thus produced by the animal is expended upon heating the air which comes in contaft with him; whence arifes that fpecies of warmth which is generally met with in a clofe or confined liable, and upon this ground very erroneous conclufions have been formed; for it is generally fuppofed that this artificial temperature increafes the warmth of the animal, and meafures are confequently adopted to fupport it, by excluding the external air as much as polfible. Flannel applied to the Ikin prevents animal heat from evaporating fo quickly as it does when the body is expofed without cover- ing, and thus the furface of the body will be confiderably warmer. Yet the warmth does not exill in the flannel, but in the body which it covers; for the temperatures of ice, and metals when cold, are not increafed by being enveloped in flannel, although heated bodies thereby retain their heat much longer; but thefe ultimately become cold, unlefs the original generating caufe of heat is continued to be applied. In the fame manner, therefore,ON THE STABLE. *3$ therefore, the heat which flies off from the body of the horfe when in a clofe liable, certainly ren- ders the atmofphere of the liable warmer than that which is without; but this heat will not continue to be generated in a proper degree, unlefs the lungs are plentifully fupplied with frefh air, unpolluted by the breath and perfpiration of the animal, and the fumes arifing from his excrements. On this account, clofe llables do not increafe the internal heat of the horfe, but rather have a tendency to diminilh it, by rendering the circulation of the blood languid, for want of a fufhcient quantity of the natural llimulus of that portion of the atmo- fphere called oxygen or vital air. The confined vapour alfo becomes condenfed on the walls, racks, and mangers, producing a conllant and unhealthy dampnefs. As the horfe, when in the Hall, is llationed to one fpot, and confequently cannot warm himfelf by exercife, it therefore is not im- proper to clothe him moderately ; but, at the fame time, he Ihould breathe frefh air; for which pur- pofe nothing is required but an outlet for the foul air,ON THE STABLE. *37 air, by which means a proper circulation of that fluid will be maintained. This may be effefied by carrying a tube of fix inches diameter from the center of the cieling through the roof. The next circumffance to be attended to, is the admiftion of a fufhcient portion of light. It is the prevailing cuffom to have fmall windows to ftables, and fre- quently none whatever. The vigorous and full enjoyment of animal faculties, depends confiderably on their being fufhciently exercifed; hence the flimulus of light is neceffary to flrengthen the eye, and to render it capable of perfeff vifion. But when the animal is fhut up in an obfcure fituation, probably during the greateft part of the day, it muff neceffarily follow that the function of fight will be proportionably impaired, which is manifeft by his winking his eyelids, from being unable to bear a fudden increafe of light on being led out of the liable. It is ufual to leffen the darknefs of ftables by whitewafhing the walls; but this inten- tion would be better effefled by enlarging the windows. The influence of light upon vegetable and T138 ON THE STABLE. and animal bodies has been afcertained by experi- ment, and it appears that, when deprived of it, they are neither fo perfe6l in their colours, nor fo vigorous in their conftitutions. Birds of the northern regions are not fo brilliant in their plumage as thofe of the fouth. It is alfo a remark- able fa61, that blind horfes are feldom fo fine and glofiy in their coats as other horfes. What analogy this laft circumftance may bear with the foregoing, I fhall not pretend to determine. Narrow ftalls are a fource of great incon- venience and danger to the animal when he turns round in them. In the courfe of my pra£tice, I have met with feveral cafes of difeafed fpines or back bones from this caufe only. Injuries of this nature are generally beyond relief, on which ac- count they point out very forcibly the necefiity of prevention. When the horfe is required to turn round in a narrow ftall, his own experience of his fituation wouldON THE STABLE. *3S would teach him to move backwards out of it, but the groom prevents him from fo doing, by handing clofe behind him, and urging him, either by a threatening tone of voice or the whip, to turn inftantaneoufly in a fpace confiderably fhorter than his own body. Although by exerting the utmoft flexibility of his frame, the animal may, perhaps, perform this motion daily without injury, he is neverthelefs conftantly expofed to an accident which may, in an inftant, render him for the future totally un- ferviceable. The width of the flail, therefore, fhould be at leaft fix feet, the length, nine feet. This will en- able the horfe to ftretch out his limbs when he is lying down, which is a great relief to him when fatigued. The manner in which the flail is ufually paved, is equally produ&ive of bad effe&s. The furface is generally formed with a defcent from the head of the flail backwards, with a view T 2 toON THE STABLE. 140 to let the urine run off from the litter. Thus the horfe Hands confiantly up hill, by which pofition he naturally becomes fo much fatigued, that he may be faid to have performed half his work be- fore he is led out of the liable. For the ligaments of his joints, and the flexor mufcles of his legs, are thereby perpetually extended. If the reader will Hand, for a few minutes, with his toes higher than his heels, the pain he will feel in the calves of his legs will foon convince him of the truth of this remark. Hence, when the horfe is not eating, he al- ways endeavours to find his level, either by Handing acrofs the Hall, or elfe as far back as his halter will permit, fo that his hind legs may meet the afcent of the other fide of the channel. But the greatefi mifchiefs which arife from this mode of conftruCt- ing the pavement, confiH in obliging the horfe to Hand with his fore legs farther under him, and out of a perpendicular direction, by which pofition he not only acquires a bad habit of leaning forwards, but alfo becomes liable to a contraction in the heels of his feet, by the weight being thrown prin- cipally141 ON THE STABLE. cipally on the toes. It moreover promotes an inclina- tion to fwelling in the hind legs, as well as being frequently the caufe of his body flipping backwards in the flail when he lies down, fo that being at the utmoft extent of his halter, he has not the power of rifing again on his legs, for want of the free ufe of his head and neck. The ground furface of the flail, therefore, fhould be perfe£Uy level, and paved with hard bricks. A conduftor for the urine may be obtained by means of a drain palling from the center backwards under the pavement. For this purpofe the center of the Hall fhould fink fomewhat lower than the other parts of it, and the entrance to the drain fhould be covered with an iron grate, about fix inches fquare. It will be advantageous to conftru£t the manger in fuch a manner that it may be removed by Hiding into the wall, fo that when the horfe has eaten his corn, he may have nothing to bite at when the groom142 ON THE STABLE; groom is cleaning him, from which habit horfes fometimes become crib-biters. The racks Ihould be compofed of call iron, as wooden rack haves frequently introduce fplin- ters into the lips during the action of gathering the hay. The door of the liable fhould be at leaft feven feet in height, which will render the horfe lefs liable to ftrike his head againft the upper part of it in palhng through it. As the foregoing are the principal points to be attended to in the llrudure of the liable, it will be proper, in the next place, to enquire into its oeco- nomy, under which head may be included diet and cleaning. In the cullomary mode of regu- lating the diet of the horfe, there are many evident improprieties; but previous to an expofition of this fubjed, it will be necelfary to treat of his organs ofON THE STABLE. i43 of digeftion. Although he is a quadruped of the herbiferous tribe, he does not chew the cud, as fuch an operation would have been very incon- venient to him in performing the offices for which he was intended by nature. His ftomach, therefore, is fmaller than that of the ox. But to make up the deficiency in the quantity received at one time, he is obliged to eat more frequently; and although his digeftion is not fo perfect as it is in animals which ruminate, yet it is much more rapid, fo that the horfe fills his ftomach twice as often as the ox. Nature has for this purpofe furniffied his ftomach with the faculty of fecreting the gaftric juice in very large quantities; fhehasalfo endowed it with very ftrong mufcles, to enable it to force its contents in a lefs digefted form into the intef- tines ; for, on examining the duodenum, the food will be found to have undergone very little altera- tion in its appearance, from which it is probable thatON THE STABLE. *44 that the ftomach of the horfe contributes little more towards digeftion than combining the gaftric juice with its contents, and immediately forcing them into'the inteftines, which, in this animal, are exceedingly large, particularly the coecum, the ftrong mufcular bands of which render it, probably, an additional feat of digeftion. The coecum, or blind gut, occupies the lower part of the abdomen, and terminates in a point called its appendix. This terminating point is fometimes filled with {tones of an extraordinary magnitude. Specimens of this kind have been found of eight inches diameter. They are, pro- bably, concretions of the earthy particles received with the food, which, by thoir gravity, precipitate during digeftion, and take up their abode in the molt depending part of the inteftines. Whilft they remain ftationary, they occafion but little inconvenience to the animal; but if they happen to be fhifted towards the mouth of the gut, the confequences are generally fatal. From145 ON THE STABLE. From the fize and dire&ion of the mufcles of the ftomach of the horfe, fome anatomifts have been induced to attribute to it the a£tion of tri- turation ; but this opinion is eafily controverted by taking it in a mechanical point of view, for to be capable of triturating its contents, it appears necef- fary that it fhould poftefs the faculty of re-a£Hon, either in a lateral or a rotatory dire&ion, and both of thefe are completely prevented by the preflure of the abdominal mufcles and other furrounding parts, fo that the only a6tion which it pofleffes, is fimply that of compreflion. The fibres of the mufcles which perform this a£tion, are wrapped round the cardiac or receiving orifice of the ftomach in a tranfverfe dire£tion, by which means they a£t as a fphin£ter, and effe£lually clofe it, fo as to prevent regurgitation, or the return of its contents. Vide plate 10, Jig. 1 —-Jig. 2 {hews the circular mufcles of the cefophagus or gullet. u ThisON THE STABLE. 146 This prevention from vomiting appears to be a neceffary ordination; for if the horfe regurgi- tated, the food which returned mull pafs outwards through his nofirils, as the peculiar formation of the pofterior part of his mouth would not permit it to go through that channel. The horfe has no gallbladder* ; but to coun- terbalance this privation, the gall du£i is propor- tionably larger. As the horfe has not always the opportunity of eating at his pleafure, like thofe animals which graze in a flate of nature, it fre- quently occurs, that, after a long faffing, he eats fo voracioufly as to overload his flomach. On this account, it is neceffary to regulate the quantity of food to be given to him at one time. But, in ffables, where horfes ffand together without any partition between them, this rule cannot be attended to, for the moff greedy horfe generally eats his * A celebrated Treatife upon Farriery by Mr. Taplin, has palFed through eleven editions, with a chapter on the difeafesof the gall bladder!!! ownON THE STABLE. 147 own {hare and part of his neighbour’s, and as greater expedition is required to do this, he of courfe fwallows it without fufficient maftication, in which cafe it cannot be fo eafy of digeftion. When the ftomach is thus praeternaturally diftend- ed, its fun£lions are greatly impeded, if not totally fufpended, and from the great fympathy between the ftomach and the brain, a degree of apoplexy is produced, terminating in delirium and death. In the language of farriery, this difeafe is deno- minated the ftaggers, and the foregoing is moft probably its true fource. At the fame time a jaundice, or a circulation of the bile through the blood veflels, takes place, and it is poftible that this arifes alfo from the preffuie of the ftomach again ft the hepatic veflels preventing the bile from flowing into the duodenum. Thus it will be found that the jaundice almoft always accompanies the ftaggers. Waggon, ftage, and poft-horfes are moft fub- je6l to the ftaggers, and, on this account, the difeafe u 2 is148 ON THE STABLE; is fuppofed to be infe6lious, as it frequently carries off feveral in the fame liable. But as horfes of the above defcription hand together without any partition, it will not be irrational to conclude that the difeafe arifes from the caufe before-mentioned. For in every cafe where I have had opportunities of examining horfes which have died of the flag- gers, I have uniformly found the ftomach diflended with a large quantity of dry undigefted food. But as it may appear extraordinary that this fhould occur to many horfes in the fame liable, it will be necelfary to aflign fome additional data to llrengthen this theory. The following are the moll promi- nent : If a carrier, or a proprietor of poll-horfes, lofes a horfe in this way, it mull follow, that if he is not immediately replaced by another horfe, the rell mull have their labour proportionably in- creafed. Hence debility follows increafed fatigue, the digellion becomes weakened, and the remainder may die fucceflively in the fame manner, without any infe6tion whatever. It alfo frequently happens, that if one horfe in a liable dies of the daggers, the149 ON THE STABLE. the fame difeafe is attributed to all the reft which die at the fame time, although their deaths might have been occafioned by a very different diforder. Therefore proprietors of waggons and ftage coaches generally experience the greateft Ioffes when the roads are bad, and the labour much increafed. As the foregoing evils are in a great meafure the refult of a want of regulation in the diet of the O animal, it remains to point out the plan neceffary to be purfued in this refpe£t. The common prac- tice is to feed all horfes in the fame proportion, without regard either to the labour they perform, or to their ages and conftitutions. The impro- priety of this pra£tice mufl be fufficiently evident, and it is, without doubt, the bafts of many difeafes. In regulating the proportions to be given to dif- ferent horfes, much judgment is not required. The following hints may probably fuffice. For a faddle or coach-horfe, which, on the average, goes about ten miles daily (and there are fome thoufands which do not perform even fo much) half a peck of150 ON THE STABLE. of found oats, with eighteen pounds of good hay, will be quite fufficient. If the hay is not good, another quarter of a peck of oats may be added. Upon this ratio, therefore, horfes which work very hard Ihould have a larger allowance, viz. from one peck to three half pecks of oats, and twenty pounds of hay daily. The confumption of grain by horfes in this kingdom is aftonifhing, and the prefent alarming {late of the country, with regard to provifions, calls aloud for the utmoft ceconomy in this department. They who keep idle horfes in a pampered (late, would do well to conlider how much, in this in- ftance, they facrifice the comforts of the poor, to the vanity and prejudices of worthlefs grooms. The food molt generally made ufe of confifts of hay, clover, oats, beans, and wheaten bran. Barley and buck-wheat are fometimes given. Barley is undoubtedly a wholefome food for horfes, butON THE STABLE. *5* but it is feldom employed as fuch, except it has been damaged by weather, and rendered unfit for malting. In this ftate, its wholefomenefs becomes very queftionable. Grain of every defcription may be much eafier and more perfe£Hy digefted by being firft bruifed in a mill. Cut ftraw helps to fill the ftomach; much nutriment, however, is not to be expelled from it; but it has the good effeft of obliging the horfe to chew his corn better before he can fwallow it. In the fpring of the year, vetches a^d young clover are given to horfes whofe employments prevent them from being turned to grafs; but thefe fhould be ufed very moderately, as fatal confequences fometimes arife from their fermentation in the ftomach, and the rarefa6lion of the air contained in them. Carrots conftitute a very grateful and nutritious diet, and are particu- larly beneficial to thick-winded horfes. With regard to water, horfes generally prefer that which is foft, and even thick and muddy. Soft water fhould therefore always be given to them,152 ON THE STABLE. them, if poflible. The quantity fhould be propor- tioned to the labour which the animal undergoes, for if he fweats much, he will confequently require more to repair the confumption of the fluids of his body. It is cuftomary in hunting ftables to warm the water before the horfe drinks it; this is a very bad pra£lice, as it renders him liable to be griped whenever he drinks it in any other date. It cer- tainly is not prudent to give much cold water to a horfe when he is heated by exercife, but other periods may be found when he may drink it with fafety. Grooms have a foolifh habit of galloping horfes immediately after drinking, with the inten- tion of warming the water in their ftomachs. By thefe unneceflary precautions, it would appear that cold water was both unnatural and prejudicial to the animal ; hut it can only become fo from his being rendered irritable and tender by the ab- furd modes with which he is treated in his do- mefticated ftate. In addition to thefe remarks, it will not be irrelevant to fay fomething on the manner in which hunters and racers are generally trainedON THE STABLE. x have *53 trained for their refpective employments. This is termed getting them into condition. The means reforted to for this purpofe are purging and exercife, both of which, when regu- lated with judgment, are certainly proper prepara- tives ; but as horfes differ much in their conftitu- tions, it muft be obvious that the fame mode of treatment cannot be adapted for all indifcrimi- nately; and a want of attention to this circumflance is the caufe why it does not always fucceed. Whenever the validity of long eftablifhed maxims is queftioned, the fupporters of thofe maxims conftantly urge their experience in their defence of them; but men who have purfued but one path, cannot be faid to poffefs an extenfive experience. Their knowledge of a fubjeft will be confined in proportion with the narrow fcale of their experiments. Hence many fallacious pro- ceffes are perfiffed in, merely becaufe the partiesON THE STABLE. *54 have neither the inclination to change them, nor the perfeverance to give new ones a fair trial. The obje6l in training hunters and racers, ap- pears to confift in an attempt to increafe their powers of refpiration, and to enable them to fup- port violent exertion for a long duration. The flrft proceeding, therefore, is to dived: them of all fuperfluous animal matter. This might be accom- plifhed by exercife only; but as a more expedi- tious mode is fometimes required, purges are ad- miniftered, which increafe the abforption of the fluids, and carry them off by the inteftines. When the horfe has been thoroughly purged, and recovered from the debility which generally enfues (for the dofes are fo ftrong, that it is no uncommon event for a horfe to die under their operation) his exercife commences, or, in the lan- guage of the turf, he takes his fweats. ByON THE STABLE. x 2 feveral *55 By this means his refpiration is improved, and his mufcular powers are increafed. But the exer- cife which he receives out of doors is not deemed fufhcient for this purpofe, he is therefore cloathed from head to foot with a hood and two or three cloths, and the liable, at the fame time, is kept as dot as poffible by every attempt to exclude the external air. Notwithflanding this procefs reduces the weight of the horfe, yet the debility which it mull inevitably create, counterbalances, in a great meafure, the advantages which are fuppofed to be derived from it. When the fweating which is excited by galloping is carried to an extreme, the mufcles are fo much exhaulled of their interllitial fat and fluids, as to become extremely rigid, and, in fome meafure, inelallic, in which Hate the ani- mal does not acquire a perfe61 ufe of them until the circulation of the blood has been increafed by motion. This, therefore, fhews that a horfe may be galloped off his fpeed, or, in other words, be- come flower in his pace the longer he is trained. It is ufual to put race-horfes on the muzzle forON THE STABLE. i$6 feveral hours before they run a race, to prevent them from filling their ftomachs. It would cer- tainly be improper to ftart a horfe with a full belly; but, on the other hand, great debility rnuft be produced from obliging him to faff for an un- reafonable length of time. The fame plan is purfued with hunters on the hunting days, particu- larly with regard to the allowance of water. But when it is recolle6led that a hunter fets out in the morning with nearly an empty ftomach, and is frequently ridden for feven or eight hours without baiting, it cannot be rational to fuppofe that he can be fo capable of going through exceffive fatigue, as if he had previoufly received a quantity of food fufhcient for the demands of nature. Whatever food and water a hunter might take on the hunting morning (provided he was fed early) would undergo the digeflive procefs, and be fo difpofed of by the time he reached the cover, as to occafion no inconvenience whatever. Thus, when the animal has been obliged to fall for an unreafon-ON THE STABLE. H7 unreasonable length of time, and has alfo under- gone exceflive fatigue, the flomach lofes its tone, and the appetite does not return until the following morning. As a remedy for this inconvenience, grooms give cordial balls, fo that in procefs of time, the horfe experiences the fame effe£ls which take place in mankind when accuflomed to drink drams, and becomes, in a great meafure, unfervice- able, if he does not receive this artificial flimulus. Next to proper feeding, good cleaning is of the utmoft importance. The method of perform- ing this part of the duties of the liable is fo familiar to every one, that it will not be neceffary to de- fer ibe it. It Should, however, be remembered, that as the horfe {beds his coat in the fpring and autumn, it is not proper to ufe a curry-comb at thofe periods, for fear of forcing off the hair too rapidly, and expofmg him to catch cold. Hand-rubbing the legsON THE STABLE. IS* legs is a very beneficial pra6lice. Horfes, after hard riding, are apt to break out again into a fweat in the liable, after they have been thoroughly cleaned and dried. This happens principally in hot llables, for the velfels of the fkin having been greatly diflended and relaxed in the a£l of throw- ing out the perfpirable matter, do not again readily recover their tone and contra£lile power, on this account the heat of the liable is alone fufficient to bring on a frelh perfpiration. Horfes, therefore, after hard exercife, fhould be cleaned and drelfed in a moderately cool fituation. Cleanlinefs in the litter and pavement of the Hall, is alfo conducive to the health of the animal. The dung, if fuffered to remain in one fpot for any length of time, generates volatile alkali in fuch a degree as to produce great irritation both on the eyes and lungs. Neither hay nor corn fhould be kept in the liable, nor in any fituation within reach of its effluvia. The racks and mangers Ihould be frequently fcraped and wafhed. TheON THE STABLE. *59 The padding of the faddles Ihould be expofed to the fun, or the heat of the fire, after being ufed. Bits fhould be kept clean, and wiped well be- fore they are put into the horfe’s mouth, as he has a natural averfion to any thing greafy. Innkeepers and coach-mafters would find it their interefl to prevent the abominable cuftom of wafhing horfes over their whole bodies with cold water imme- diately after having gone a ftage. That they fur- vive it, is no proof of its utility, but only ferves to fhow the power which nature has of refilling the effe£ls of any treatment which is hollile to her ceconomy. If the animal was put into motion immediately after this operation, it might be lefs prejudicial; but when he is tied up in a liable in that Hate for two or three hours, and left to dry by evaporation only, it cannot be difficult to perceive the impropriety and danger of fuch a pra£lice. The legs of horfes of all defcriptions Ihould never bei6o ON THE STABLE. be wafhed without being afterwards rubbed dry. The feet fhould be picked very clean after exercife, and, if hard and dry, fhould be flopped with clay, or any other fubflance which will retain moiflure. During the day time, if the horfe does not work hard, the litter fhould be removed entirely from under him, fo that he may Hand on the bare pavement, which method is very beneficial to his legs and feet. It is common to lay a little ftraw in the flail, under the horfe’s belly, upon entering the liable, to in- duce him to flale ; but this is not a good pra61ice, for the animal functions become fo much con- trolled by this affociation of two different a£lions, as to be incapable of performing their office with- out fuch an artificial ftimulus. Whistling alone is fufficient for this purpofe. In this place it will not be improper to point out the bad confequences of forcing a horfe to travel, for a great length of time, without permitting him to void his urine, for by being thus obliged to re- tainON THE STABLE, 161 tain it, the fphinter of the neck of the bladder acquires the habit of contracting fo ftrongly, as to become infenlible to the natural ftimulus of the accumulation of the fluid contained within it. From this caufe, there are but few old horfes which are not afflited, more or lefs, with ftrangury. Y* . 'CHAPTER IX. On the AGE oj the HORSE, C^UADRUPEDS generally furnifh fome vilible mark, whereby their age may be afcertained with tolerable certainty. Thus, the ox acquires annu- ally an additional ring on his horns; the buck, an additional branch to the palm. In the horfe it is manifefled by an alteration in the appearance of the teeth, and certain parts of the mouth. The horfe pofifefTes forty teeth, viz. twelve front teeth, or incifores, or nippers, twenty-four molares or grinders, and four canine teeth, which are called tufhes ; thefe lad are want- ing in the mare, except in fome very few inftances. Until five years old, the age of the horfe is afcer- y 2 tainedON THE AGE OF THE HORSE. 164 tained by the fucceffive fhedding of the twelve front teeth or incifores, which procefs begins at two years and a half old, and is carried on in the following order, namely, from two years and a half until three, he fheds the two middle teeth of the lower jaw, and alfo of the upper jaw*. Vide pi. 12, fig. B. From three years and a half until four, he Iheds the two next in both jaws. Vide fg. C. From four and a half until five, he fheds the two corner teeth of both jaws; and, at the fame time, the canine teeth or tulhes make their appearance. Vide fig. D. He is then no longer called a colt. At the upper furface or top of every tooth, there is a fmall black cavity refembling the eye of a bean. This cavity in the teeth of the lower jaw furnifhes the age from five years until feven ; after which period it is ufual to pronounce the horfe to be aged, and deprived of any figns whereby his age can be afcertained. Neverthelefs, the age may be * As the colt cannot bite the grafs perfectly when he has fhed the two middle teeth, it will be beneficial to feed him with malhes of bran, and hay, until the new teeth are of a fufficient fize. calculatedON THE AGE OF THE HORSE. 165 calculated until twelve years by the fame marks in the upper jaw, which remain after thofe in the lower jaw are worn out. This will be explained in its proper place. At five years old, the black marks or cavities in the two middle teeth of the lower jaw are filled up, and nearly difappear; for as they are fhed the firft, fo do they lofe their marks be- fore any of the reft. Vide fig. E. At fix years old, the black marks of the two fecond teeth are filled up in the fame manner as the foregoing. Vide fig. F. At feven years old until eight, the marks of the corner teeth of the lower jaw fill up and dif- appear. At the fame time the tufhes, which antecedently to this period were concave in the furface next to the tongue, alter their fhape, and become round or convex. The marks of the lower teeth being all obliterated at eight years old, it will be neceffary to have recourfe to the upper teeth, which undergo the fame procefs as the lower teeth, except with this difference, namely, that they do not begin to fill up until all the lower teeth are deprived of their marks, and that there is166 ON THE AGE OF THE HORSE. is an interval of two years between every tooth in the upper jaw, whereas in the lower jaw the in- terval is only one year. Thus, at eight the cavities of the two middle teeth of the upper jaw begin to fill up. VideJig. G. At ten, the cavities of the two next. Fig. H. And at twelve, the cavities of the corner teeth are totally effaced. Fig. I. This rule, however, is fubjeft to fome variation in dif- ferent horfes, in proportion with the different qualities of their teeth, or on account of the habit of crib-biting, which wears away the teeth much falter than in their natural courfe. In addition to thefe appearances of the teeth, other figns of ad- vanced age may be difcovered, among which the following are the moft remarkable: The roof of the mouth or palate is conftru6ted with tranfverfe ridges from one fide to the other. VideJig. G, H, I. Thefe ridges are diftant from each other about three quarters of an inch; their edges incline up- wards, by which means they ferve as points of con- ta£t for the food, and prevent it from falling out of the mouth during maftication. InON THE AGE OF THE HORSE. 167 In the ox thefe ridges are papillous, the points taking a direction upwards, in which manner they correfpond with the dire&ion of thofe in the tongue. The infides of the cheeks of the ox are alfo furnifhed with papillae of a pyramidal form, point- ing upwards towards the throat, the office of which is probably to hold the cud in its proper fituation while the animal chews it. These ridges are large and diftin£l in a young horfe, but become flatter and more level as the animal advances in years, and in very old horfes they are nearly abforbed. The front teeth or in- cifores of both jaws, in a young horfe, meet exa6tly in a line, and perpendicularly to each other. Vide jig. K. As the horfe grows older, thefe teeth take a more horizontal dire6lion, nearly in a line with the jaws, the upper teeth proje&ing very confider- ably over the lower teeth; at the fame time the upper corner tooth forms a curve over the lower cornerON THE AGE OF THE HORSE. 168 corner tooth. Vide Jig. L. Farrows appear on their front furfaces, and their colour becomes yellow and opaque. Other chara6teriftics of age may be feen externally, for inftance, the eyes link in their or- bits, the eye-lids become lean and wrinkled, and the cavity above the eye* appears more hollow. Grey hairs fhoot out upon the forehead and the lower part of the mouth, the middle of the nofe becomes indented by the long continued prelfure of the nofe-band of the head-collar, and the lips exhibit a lean and fhriveiled appearance, the lower lip hanging confiderably below the upper lip. The ears alfo drop more or lefs in a lateral dire&ion. Thefe external marks of old age, together with thofe of the teeth, the dealer in horfes exerts his ingenuity to counteraft. He therefore commences his operations by making an opening between the fkin and cellular membrane, at a fmall diftance above the eye, into * This cavity, however, is fometimes deep in a young horfe. which169 ON THE AGE OF THE HORSE. which he introduces a quill, and by blowing into it, fills up the cavity and gives it a plump appear- ance. He proceeds next to furnifh the corner teeth with the fame marks which they poflefled at feven years old. For this purpofe, he forms an artificial cavitv in the head of the tooth with an j engraving tool, and gives it a black colour by burning it with a hot iron. This procefs, in the liable vocabulary, is called Bifhopping. By fuch pra£lices as thefe, an inexperienced perfon may be deceived ; but by attending to the following ob- fervations, the impofition may be eafily dete&ed ; for although the dealer has it in his power to make marks or cavities in the corner teeth, yet he cannot alter their horizontal direction, nor reflore them to the perpendicular approximation which is the attendant of youth. Vide Jig. K. Neither can he re-produce the prominence of the ridges of the roof of the mouth, nor furnifh the tufhes with their original concave furfaces. As it fuits the purpofe of the dealer to make an old horfe appear younger, z fo170 ON THE AGE OF THE HORSE. fo does he fometimes find it convenient to make a young horfe appear older. A horfe is more faleable at five years old than at four, on which account the dealer attempts to produce an addi- tional year, by drawing the corner teeth before the natural period of their dropping out. The bars of the mouth are alfo cut, to let the tufhes protrude prematurely. But although the corner teeth are removed, and the protrufion of the new teeth is thereby fomewhat accelerated, yet it is an unerring rule, that the animal has not attained his fifth year until the corner teeth, both of the upper and lower jaw, are complete in their fize and appearance, and the marks of the middle teeth begin to fill up. The tulhes alfo fhould rife confiderably above the jaw. It is difficult to difcover with accuracy the age of crib-biters, and horfes whofe teeth are extremely hard; the former lofe the marks of their teeth before their ufual period, the latter retainON THE AGE OF THE HORSE. t7i retain them long after the age of feven years. In examining a horfe’s mouth, it is neceffary to look at both fides of it, as a confiderable difference in the appearance frequently occurs from the maftica- tion of the food being performed on one fide of the mouth only, in which cafe the teeth on that fide of the jaw which has moft fri&ion, will be moft forward in their alteration.- i:V *•> ... 170 . • ■ , - 'CHAPTER X. On the EDUCATION of the HORSE. VIRGIL, in his Georgies, thus poetically gives his advice upon this fubjeft : “ Tu quos ad ftudium atque ufum formabis agreftem, “ Jam vitulos hortare, viamque infifte domandi: “ Dum faciles animi juvenum, dum mobilis astas.” But previous to laying down any rules upon this head, it will be neceffary to enquire into the degree of underftanding pofleffed by the horfe, which, with that of other brutes, has generally been called inftinct. Natural hiflorians have at- tempted to explain this faculty; but many of them (particularly the French) have indulged in fuch reveries, as to render their works unworthy of attention or belief. Reason174 ON THE EDUCATION OF THE HORSE. Reason may be faid to confift in the faculty of affociating ideas, and forming conclufions, in- dependently of corporeal a&ion, relative fituation, or the prefence of the objects reafoned upon. But inftinft feems to be confined to the faculty of dif- criminating between noxious and innoxious food, the avoiding danger either by flight or refiftance, and to the performing certain neceffary fun&ions, which, it is fuppofed, the animal has not been taught by others. Inftiu6f may be improved by age and experience ; but it will never render a brute capable of thinking abftra&edly, or without the concurrence of certain fignals or appearances which he has been accuflomed to affociate with particular a6tions*. Thus we find in moft animals, * The moft extraordinary faculty in brutes, is that of finding their way back again, when they have been removed to a confiderable diftance from their homes. This has been attempted to be explained by the fuppofition of their recolle6ting the appearance of objects on the road, or the different fcent of the earths over which they have paffed. But as both of thefe mull prefent themfelves in an inverted order of fucceflion on their return, it is difficult to conceive that their underftanding can be equal to the talk of fuch a counter- arrangement. even175 ON THE EDUCATION OF THE HORSE. even of the ferocious tribe, an apparent attachment to their feeders; but it is probable that this attach- ment is lefs the effe6l of gratitude, than the refult of fimple recolie6lion of the fource from whence they fatisfy one of the moft urgent calls of nature. Hence the horfe can diftinguifh the voice of the perfon who feeds him from any other, and will exprefs his fatisfa£tion by neighing ; but may not this teftimony of joy arife folely from the expec- tation of receiving his accuftomed allowance of corn? For by conftantly feeding him immediately after performing certain a£tions, he will acquire the habit of repeating thofe a&ions when demanded of him at other periods. This practice ought to conftitute the bafis of horfe-breaking; but how feldom it is adopted, may be daily feen throughout the country. The parties who purfue this branch of bufinefs, are too often of a ferocious difpofition; added to which, an habitual ftate of intoxication tends not a little to heighten their natural cruelty. The horfe is, by nature, neither vicious nor un- tradable y the chief fource of his oppofition ariles fromi76 ON THE EDUCATION OF THE HORSE. from fear. On this account, it is not furprifmg that he fhould refill;, at firli, the attempts made to fubjugate him. But if, by gentle habit, he is con- vinced that no injury is intended him, he fubmits, hill preferving his natural vivacity, and becomes the pleafant inftrument of moll; of our comforts and luxuries. Unfortunately, however, violence and privation of reft and food, are generally fub- ftituted for the means here recommended. The colt which is naturally dull and fluggilh endures this treatment, and furrenders himfelf to the will of his mercilefs rider; but the colt of mettle and fpirit defends himfelf with all his powers, and, worked up to defperation, is transformed from a generous to a mifchievous and dangerous animal. As a proof of the force of habit on the horfe, we may fele£t the cuftom of whiftling to him while he is ftaling, or evacuating his urine. The found of whiftling polfelfes in itfelf originally no par- ticular ftimulus on the urinary palfages; but by whiftling to a colt when ftaling, and repeating it conftantly177 ON THE EDUCATION OF THE HORSE. conftantly upon that occafion, fuch an aflbciated adlion will in time be produced on thole parts, as to bring on the propenfity to difcharge his urine whenever he hears the whiftle. If fo great a con- troul on a function naturally fpontaneous can be obtained by habit, it is evident that the fame prin- ciple will apply to the animal in the more eh'ential parts of his education. Thus, by firing a piftol in the liable, and feeding the horfe inllantly after- wards, and repeating this pra£lice for a fhort time, that which was originally the caufe of terror, will ultimately become the fignal of gratification. • . . ’ \ Analagous to this is the method by which they are taught to perform certain tricks with great dexterity. Admitting this plan of inftru£lion to be the bed, it is obvious that it cannot be commenced at too early an age. Hence it is advifeable to accullom colts to the halter at three months old, to handle and carefs them, to lift up their legs with the hand, to ftrike the feet gently with a hammer, a a andi78 ON THE EDUCATION OF THE HORSE. and to place bags fluffed with flraw acrofs their backs. By purfuing this method, a colt may be broken in, at a proper age, with very little trouble or danger. In bringing young horfes into fervice, it is neceffary to confider their age, fize, and conftitu- tion. Small horfes generally are fit for labour at an earlier age than large ones, becaufe they fooner acquire the extent of their natural growth, and have their corporeal powers more concentrated. A large raw-boned colt, with his legs badly formed, can never fupport much fatigue, becaufe he has not only the mechanical difadvantage of the mal- polition of his legs operating againft him, but alfo the bulk of his body being difproportioned to his mufcular ffrength, muff render his exertions more feeble, and lefs capable of long duration; an irrit- able habit of body will alfo prove a great impedi- ment. Colts of the blood kind acquire ffrength comparatively at a much earlier age, fince it is cuffomaryON THE EDUCATION OF THE HORSE. >79 cuftomary to begin to race them at two years old; but their future growth is confiderably impeded by the violent treatment which they undergo in training. On this account they feldom arrive to a large fize. But this circumftance fhould be no caufe of difcouraging the breed of blood horfes, for in their natural properties they are indubitably much fuperior to all others. This fuperiority is not confined to internal or invifible caufes only ; much of it arifes from the external conformation of the body. The mechanical advantages which they derive from this fource, confift in the great length of their quarters, and the depth and capacity of their chefts ; for in their relative proportion with horfes of an ordinary fpecies, they are much ftronger, and pofielfed of greater fpeed. The molt oftenfible chara&eriflic of the blood horfe is compa6!nefs of fibre. This may be traced in every part, namely, fkin, mufcle, tendon, liga- ment, bone, and hoof. It is this property which increafes his ftrength without adding to his bulk. a a 2 OtherON THE EDUCATION OF THE HORSE. i8q Other parts, fuch as the brain, heart*, and blood velfels, are remarkable. The texture of his fkin is finer, the hair fofter, and the legs fmooth and not tufted. The capacity of the cranium or fkull, which contains the brain, is proportionally larger than that of the cart horfe ; even the features of the face, viz. ears, eyes, and noftrils, are on a bolder fcale. Vide plate 11 ,Jig. 2. His principal excellence, however, arifes from his powers of continuance, or of fupporting fa- tigue. These powers in the horfes of Arabia (if we may give credit to the aflertions of travellers) are wonderful, and the more fo when we refle£f on the great heat of that climate. The true Arabian * The heart of Eclipfe weighed fourteen pounds. horfeON THE EDUCATION OF THE HORSE, 181 the horfe of the firft race, may be confidered as the moft perfe£t model of the fpecies. The blood horfes of Great Britain are ori- ginally defcendants from this flock, but not from the moft noble fort. The natives of the eaftern countries are very tenacious of their beft breeds, and the Arabian horfes which have been imported into England, have been generally purchafed by feafaring men, who were probably no great con- noiffeurs in horfe-flelh, and whom the natives would confequently endeavour to impofe upon, by felling to them thofe of an ordinary kind. In the genealogies of their horfes they are even more particular than we are in this country, and it is remarkable that they never fuffer a mare to be exported. As the prefent is the age for improvements in the breed of cattle, it may be an objedfc worthy of confideration to improve alfo the breed of horfes, by fending a perfon properly qualified toI 8 2 ON THE EDUCATION OF THE HORSE. the Eaft to purchafe horfes for that purpofe; this might be done either by a fociety of gentlemen, or at the expence of government*. * In regard to breeding from the natural flock of this country (Great Britain) it is a queftion worthy of the attention of the phyfiologift, whether we fhould not fometimes have a better produce from the promifcuous inter- courfe of animals, than from the ftudied feleftions of breeders, efpecially when it may be fuppofed that, among the great proportion of caftrated males, fome might, if they had been left perfeft, be in every refpeft better adapted to breed from, than thofe which are appropriated, from neceffity, to that purpofe? The method which is generally adopted to improve the breed of any particular fpecies, is by crofling them with thofe of a better kind ; but if the ratio of improvement can be reduced to mathematical calculation, it is evident that the offspring from fuch an union, although it may be fu- perior to the worft of the two parents, yet will be inferior to the belt, if, as we are taught to believe, it partakes of the qualities of them both. Thus the produce from a blood horfe and a cart mare, will be a hetero- geneous monfler, inferior to either of its progenitors; and the fame refult will enfue from all crolfes which are very remote from each other in their individual properties. It would feem, therefore, that the beft way of improving the breed, would be to feleft the likelieft individuals of the fame blood, and to propagate from them only. CHAPTERCHAPTER XL On PROGRESSION, The fucceffive alternation of the limbs in the motion of quadrupeds is fo tranfitory, as to render it very difficult to difcern, at the fame view, their aCtion feparately and collectively. The horfe may be confidered as a machine fupported by four per- pendicular columns, each of which has its own center of gravity ; but during progreffion, each of thefe columns muft fhift its center, and obtain a new bafis fucceffively. In order to effeCl this, the alternate aCtions of flexion and extenfion of the limbs are carried on by means of joints aCted upon by mufcles in different directions. Thus the paces of the animal confilt of a re- petition of compound circular movements of the legs184 ON PROGRESSION. legs upon tranferable centers. The horfe naturally employs three paces, namely, the walk, the trot, and the gallop. All other paces are generally artificial, and forced upon him by education. THE WALK. Borelli, in his ingenious treatife “ de motu animalium,” fays that the horfe commences this pace with one of his hind legs firft ; “ incipit greffus pede poflicoand he attempts to prove the ne- ceffity of this law, by obferving that the body would lofe its liability, if the hind leg was not advanced under it, in order to acquire a new center of gravity previous to its progreffive motion. This rule, however, is by no means conllant, as appears by ocular demonftration. The walk confifts of four motions, which may be particularized as follows, by the legs A, B, C, D. Vide pi. 13, Jig. 1,2. InON PROGRESSION. 185 B B The In fig. 1, the horfe has advanced the near* fore leg (A) and placed it again on the ground ; this a£lion being completed, the off hind leg (C) is ele- vated and advanced under the body, but before it reaches the ground, the off fore leg (B) is railed and advanced, in order to make room for it, as is par- ticularly the cafe when the horfe overfteps the print of the fore foot with his hind foot. When the off hind leg (C) has reached the ground (vide Jig. 2) the horfe hands upon three legs, forming a triangle (A, C, D). When the off fore leg (B) alights on the ground, the near hind leg (D) com- mences its a6tion, and is advanced in the fame man- ner as before, and the horfe is again fupported by three legs (A, B, C). Thus the animal, during the walk, is always fupported by a triangular pofition of three legs, namely, two fore legs and one hind leg, or one fore leg and two hind legs, alternately. * The near legs are thofe on the fame fide on which the rider mounts.186 ON PROGRESSION. The walk is, of all paces, the eafieft to the rider, provided he fits on the center of the horfe’s back, as it confifls of an alternate depreffion of the fore and hind quarters; for infiance, when either of the fore legs is advanced, the fore quarters muff fink; but when the leg, by the advancement of the body, reaffumes its perpendicular pofition, the fore quarters will recover their former altitude. The fame action takes place in the hinder quarters. This motion may be compared to the vibration of the beam of a pair of fcales. The walk fhould be light, firm, and quick. The knee fhould be bent moderately, and the leg appear to be fufpended in the air for an inffant; the foot alfo fhould alight perfectly flat on the ground. But to be capable of a free unembarraffed walk, it is neceffary that the horfe fhould be well fhaped in his fore quarters and legs ; for a quadruped that is not firm on his center of gravity when he is handing ffill, can never be firm during progreffion. It will therefore be expedient to recapitulate fome remarks on the external con- formation contained in the former part of this work,ON PROGRESSION. 187 work, viz. that the fhoulder fhould be oblique, and the fore legs hand perfe£tly ftraight from the cheft to the ground. If the fore legs are fhort in comparifon with the hind legs, or if they incline too much under the body, the horfe will ftep Ihort, and on his toe. If the cheft is narrow, and the toes turn outwards, the legs will ftrike each other during their motion, particularly when going upon rough uneven furfaces. If the toe turns inwards, and the cheft is too wide, the horfe will tread prin- cipally on the outward quarter of the foot, and confequently will be more unfteady than if he prefled equally upon every part. The neck fhould be handfomely united with the fhoulders, and the head fhould be carried with a light and elevated air. In conjunftion with this difpofition of the fore quarters, it is neceflary that the hind quarters fhould be well conftru£Ied, and in a proper pofition, namely, that the leg from the hough to the ground fhould be ftraight, and in a perpendicular line b b 2 underON PROGRESSION. under the articulation of the thigh bone with the pelvis, commonly called the round bone. If the hind legs are placed too far behind the croupe, they cannot advance fufficiently under the body when in a6lion, whence three fourths of the weight of the body will be thrown on the fore legs, by which their aflion muft inevitably be impeded. If a horfe walks well, he generally excels in every other pace*. It is difficult, however, to confine young met- tlefome horfes to a walk, and it requires great temper and perfeverance, together with a light firm hand, to accompliffi it. Whenever the horfe changes to a trot, he fhould be flopped imme- diately for a moment or two, and then fuffered to proceed again. But this fhould not be done by roughly check- ing him with the bridle, or chaflifing him either * The word excels, is not meant to fignify fuperior fpeed ; it is intended to be applied only to the property of a true and harmonious manner of g°ing- with189 ON PROGRESSION. with whip or fpur, as fuch pra£Kces only render him more impatient and unfteady. If the horfe naturally carries his head well, it is bell to ride him with a moderately loofe rein, railing the hand when he feels likely to change into a trot. A tight rein fhould always be avoided, for if he carries his head low, it tends to deaden his mouth, and to teach him a bad habit of depending on the bridle for fupport, in which cafe he always goes heavily and on his fhoulders. It is probably of fome ad- vantage to ufe the words walk, trot, gallop, when you wifh your horfe to enter upon any one of thefe paces. THE TROT. In the walk, the horfe moves all his legs feparately and in regular fuccellion; but when he is excited to accelerate his pace, he moves two at once, viz. a fore and a hind leg diagonally, by which means he paffes over as much ground with twoON PROGRESSION* The 190 two motions in the trot, as he does in the walk with four. But as in the trot he is fupported by two legs only, he is more liable to fall in that pace than in either the walk or the canter, in both of which he has always three legs on the ground at the fame period. The trot, particularly in the circle, is well adapted to give freedom and elafticity of mo- tion to a young horfe, and to confirm him in his center of gravity. In performing this leffon, the outfide legs work on a larger circle than thofe on the infide ; he is confequently obliged to advance the outfide {boulder as much as poffible, to keep pace with the infide fhoulder, which moves on a fmaller extent of ground. The fame thing takes place alfo in the outward hind leg, for the fame reafon. In working a horfe in the circle, it is cuftomary to rein him up tight, fo as to confine his head to one particular pofition ; but this pra£tice tends very much to confine him in his fhoulders, and thereby to defeat the intention of the leffon.ON PROGRESSION. i9t The horfe fhould have his head at liberty, which will permit him to advance his {boulders, and to move with greater elafticity. When a horfe is forced in the trot beyond his powers, or does not carry himfelf well on his center, he is apt to con- fufe it with a canter, viz. to trot with his fore legs, and canter with his hind legs, and vice verfa. Whenever this confufion occurs, he fhould be checked inftantly, for this compound motion both reduces his fpeed, and renders him more unfafe in his going. If, from an upright fhoulder or bad pofition of the fore leg, the horfe goes heavily before, he will be liable to flrike his fore feet with the toes of his hind feet, and produce a difagree- able noife, called Forging. This fault may be corrected by throwing him more on his haunches, and by attending to a proper mode of fhoeing. As the fault arifes, in a great meafure, from the fore foot not being quick enough in its motion to get out of the way of the hind foot, it is evident that this may be remedied by accelerating that motion,ON PROGRESSION. 192 motion, and this may be effe6led by keeping the fore foot as low at the heel as poflible, by which means the extenfion of the flexor mufcles of the leg being increafed, they will be ftimulated to a£t fooner than they otherwife would do, and the gain- ing but a moment of time in their a£lion is fufficient for the purpofe. At the fame time the toes of the hind feet fhould be fhortened as much as poflible, and the hoof fhould proje£t, in a fmall degree, beyond the fhoe, which will prevent the iron from flriking the fore foot. Horfemen generally rife in the faddle during the trot, by which method they avoid the concuffion they would otherwife experi- ence. But by this cuftom they certainly interrupt the harmony of the horfe’s motion, by obliging him to dwell longer on one leg than the other, in doing which he accommodates himfelf to the mo- tion of his rider. BeGdes this interruption, it greatly incommodes the animal, if it is not per- formed very fleadily and perfe£tly on the center of gravity; for nothing can be fo ungraceful in appear-ON PROGRESSION. 19 3 appearance, as the figure of a rider Twinging his , arms and legs backwards and forwards as if they did not belong to his body. Fig. 1, plate 14, reprefents the horfe in a mo- derate trot, in which pace he covers no more ground at each motion than extends from one hind leg to the other. Vide letters D, C. But in fig. 2, where the trot is accelerated, he not only covers more ground by the greater ex- tenfion of his legs, but gains alfo an additional fpace by the momentum of his body during the period when all his legs are in the air. Thus the letter C marks the fpot which the near hind foot occupied before it was raifed in the air, and the letters A, B, deferibe the fpots of ground to which the near fore foot and off hind foot will reach when they alight on the earth. This momentum is, in a great meafure, loft, when the horfe goes in harnefs, as the vis inertiae of the carriage is fufficient to counterbalance it. c c WhenON PROGRESSION. 19+ When a horfe, whofe fore legs are much fhorter than his hind legs, or whofe fhoulders are very upright, trots faft, he is obliged to go with his hind legs very wide, fo that his hind feet may come on the outfide of his fore feet. By this means he finks his croupe, and brings it more on a level with his fore quarters, and at the fame time he avoids (hiking his fore feet with his hind feet. Horfes of this conformation fometimes go in the fame form as dogs generally do, namely, with their fore and hind legs in two different lines of direc- tion, by which one hind foot comes on the outfide of the fore foot, and the other hind foot between the two fore feet, and this is done with the fame intention as in the former inflance. They are, however, very unfafe to ride, for the hind foot is always more or lefs in danger of catching the fore foot, in which cafe, except the (hoe is torn off, they muft inevitably fall with great violence. The elongated or darting trot, is computed not to be fo fpeedy as the fhort quick trot; but it fnrnifhes a proof of great (Irength and elafticity of mufcle, andON PROGRESSION, *95 and is more peculiar to blood horfes than to thofe of any other defcription. The motion, however, is fo different from the fhort contra6led pace of common horfes, that bad riders are frequently puzzled to accommodate their feats to it. Hor ses have been faid to poffefs the ability of trotting eighteen miles within the hour; fuch horfes do not trot, but run, that is to fay, move all their legs feparately and fucceffively as in the walk; whereas in the trot, a horfe moves two at once, viz. a fore leg and a hind leg diagonally. Cuftom, however, has determined it to be a trot when the horfe does not rife into a gallop. It is a law in the animal oeconomy, that parts which are moft exercifed become the ftrongeft, and that animal bodies will perform particular motions to which they have been moft accuftomed with greater facility than others. Thus horfes which have been kept folely to trotting, cannot gallop fo faft as they can trot, nor for fo long a continuance. But the fame powers which enable them to excel in the trot, c c 2196 ON PROGRESSION. the trot, would alfo have rendered them fall gallopers, if they had been employed in that a£tion. Hence it is that particular ftallions acquire the reputation of getting fall trotters, or high leapers ; for as every perfon who breeds a colt from horfes of this de- fcription concludes that thefe qualities mull be fpe- cifically generated with him, he conflantly exercifes him in thefe purfuits, until the mufcles which are principally employed acquire a fuperior ftrength to the reft of the body, and furnifh the animal with the defired quality. The CANTER and GALLOP. The canter is not generally a natural pace. When the horfe is excited to move his ftation from one place to another, he performs it with a velocity proportionate to the exciting caufe. Thus he changes from the walk to the trot, and from the trot to the gallop, according to his inclination. In each of thefe changes he acquires an addi- tion of fpeed; but as the trot is equal in fpeed toON PROGRESSION. 197 the canter, he feldom adopts the canter, but changes to the gallop, when he wifhes to accelerate his motion. The horfe is taught to perform the canter by fhortening the gallop. To accomplifh this he fhould be well formed in his hind quarters, and hand with his haunches well under him, as it is almoft impoffible to make a horfe canter whofe hind legs hand far behind him, and whofe fore legs incline greatly under his body. The concuffion is not fo great in the canter as in the trot, becaufe the a£tion is divided into four motions. Thus, if the horfe leads with the off fore leg B (vide pi. 15, Jig. 1) the feet will come to the ground in the fol- lowing fucceflion, viz. the near hind leg D, off hind leg C, near fore leg A, and off fore leg B; but during this alternation, there is a period when three feet are on the ground at the fame time, and in the fame order as in the walk; for inftance, the two hind feet and the near fore foot will be on the ground juft prior to the moment when the off fore foot alights, which having taken place, the near hind foot rifes from the ground, leaving the other198 ON PROGRESSION. other three, viz. two fore feet and the off hind foot, ftationary. This could not be reprefented in the plate, as it would have given the appearance of walking inftead of cantering, but upon an attentive obfervation in the living fubje£l, it will be found to be true. In the canter, the horfe moves ob- liquely, by advancing either his right or left fhoulder in conformity with the leading leg. Thus, if he leads with the right fore leg, the right hind leg muff follow, and be advanced more under the body than the left hind leg. By this polition, the feet defcribe a rhomboidal quadrangle (A, B, C, D) which gives greater liability to the body during progreflion, than if the animal moved with an equilateral proje£lion of his limbs. If the horfe leads with the right fore leg B, and follows with the left hind leg D, he is faid to canter falfe. This may be eafdy felt by the rider, as the body of the animal will move in a tortuous, unharmonious manner. Whenever this takes place, he fhould be flopped immediately, as he incurs the danger of falling. It is eafieft to the rider when the horfe leads199 ON PROGRESSION. THE leads with the off or right fore leg, becaufe the rider holding the reins in the left hand, generally turns his body fomewhat to the fame fide, which inclination accords alfo with the oblique direction of the horfe’s body. To oblige the horfe to lead with the off fore leg, it will be neceffary to fhorten the near or left hand rein, and to prefs the horfe’s fide with the left leg, and to apply the fpur, if neceffary. By fhortening the left rein, his head and neck will be inclined to the left or near fide, which will confine the motion of his near or left fhoulder, and force him to advance the off fhoul- der, at the fame time the preffure of the rider’s left leg throws off the croupe to the right fide, and gives the hind quarters the fame direction as the fore quarters. If the horfe is required to lead with his near or left leg, the right hand and heel muff be employed for that purpofe.200 ON PROGRESSION. THE GALLOP Is commonly divided into the hand gallop and the full gallop; but as this didin&ion applies more to the different degrees of velocity than to any peculiarity in the pace, it will be nnneceffary to enter into a feparate defcription. In the gallop, the horfe leads with one fore leg fomewhat ad- vanced beyond the other, but not fo much fo as in the canter (Jig. 1) and when he is going at his utmod fpeed, the legs are nearly equal (Jig. 2). The fleeted gallopers carry their bodies perfectly horizontal, or, in other words, bear the lead refem- blance in their motion to that of a rocking-horfe. For, in the a£tion of progredion, it will be found that all bodies will be retarded in their pro- grefs in proportion as they depart from a right line, either horizontally or perpendicularly. None but horfes of great powers are able to gallop in this form, for to fupply the want of undulation in the body,ON PROGRESSION. 201 body, they muft bend their limbs in a greater de- gree, and hence the neceflity of their handing per- fectly on the center of gravity. As the a&ion of the gallop is more extended than the canter, it is necelfary that the horfe fhould have his head more at liberty, for a horfe cannot gallop out with his head reined up. Thus, in the fwift gallop, he carries his head and neck nearly horizontal. Grooms and jockies teach horfes to pull againft them in the gallop, and this praClice helps to fupport them when they Hand up in the ftirrups; but this can- not counterbalance the bad effeCfs of deadening the horfe’s mouth by the conftant prelfure of the bit; for when the horfe thus bears on the hand, a con- fiderable portion of the power which fhould be concentrated in his body, for the purpofe of main- taining his equilibrium, is directed to his head, and hence he becomes much more liable to fall in cafe of meeting with any cafual obftacle. In propor- tion with the want of fenfibility in the horfe’s mouth, the rider will have lefs command of him; d d thisON PROGRESSON. 202 this accounts for their bolting out of the courfe fo frequently during a race. To afcertain the extent of ground which the horfe paffes over at each {broke, it will be neceffary to meafure the diftance between two fucceeding impreflions of the hind feet, viz. from A to B, h-2- Horses fometimes change the leading leg dur- ing the gallop: if they change the hind leg at the fame time in unifon with the fore leg, it furnifhes a proof of great ftrength and command of their limbs; but if they change the fore leg without the hind leg, they become difunited, and fhould be inftantly {lopped. It is a great advantage to a horfe to be able to change his leading legs in this manner, as he there- by relieves either fide of his body alternately. It will be found a good pra£lice to teach him to per- form203 ON PROGRESSION. form this change by fignal from the hand and heel of his rider. The belt method to accomplifh it, is to gallop him in a ferpentine direction, obliging him to change to right or left, in conformity with the line of his direction. A horfe fhould never be flopped fuddenly in the gallop, as it endangers his loins and houghs, and often produces an irre- coverable injury. Inftances have occurred of the legs being broken by the concuffion, and the hid- den and violent contraction of the mufcles, which take place on fuch an occafion. THE PASSAGE. The paflage is a term in the manege properly hgnifying the contracted trot, in which the horfe moves with his haunches far advanced under him, and his fore quarters and legs elevated as much as poffible. This term is generally and improperly made ufe of when the horfe moves Tideways either to the right or left, defcribing two parallel lines of direction with his fore and hind feet. This d d 2 paceON PROGRESSION. 204 pace is more properly denominated, Head or tail to the wall. As the horfe acquires the habit of pre- ferving his center of gravity by moving in a right line either forwards or backwards, fo will he, by the above method, acquire the faculty of preferv- ing his center when moving in a lateral dire&ion. The advantages arifing from this pace, confift in enabling the horfe to change his line of direc- tion, either to the right or left, with greater facility, whence he will avoid obftacles much more quick- ly, and will be lefs liable to fall in eroding ruts or other uneven furfaces, and he will alfo be more expert at cramp leaps and perplexing fituations, in which a different horfe would be unable to proceed. Carriage horfes like wife will turn with lefs trouble and conftraint when they have learned this pace. As this motion is perfectly novel and un- natural to a young horfe, the gentleft means fhould be employed in teaching him. It is therefore beft toON PROGRESSION. 205 to begin it on foot, in the following manner, namely, one perfon fhould place himfelf on the near fide of the horfe’s head, and hold the near or left rein in his left hand, and the off or right rein palling over the neck to the near fide in his right hand. Another perfon fhould Hand oppofite the hind quarters on the fame fide with a whip. The perfon holding the reins Ihould then gently urge the horfe to move, but Ihould prevent him from advancing, by lightly checking him with the bridle, and inclining his head rather towards the off lide, at the fame time the perfon holding the whip Ihould touch him gently on the quarter, which will oblige him to move his hind legs in the fame dire&ion. It is necelfary, however, to obferve, that his fhoulders fhould incline towards the lide on which he is going rather more than the hind quarters, by which means he will move in an oblique manner. At firft he Ihould not be forced to continue this motion beyond three or four paces at a time, for fear of irritating him, as from206 ON PROGRESSION, to from not knowing what is required of him, he feels in conftant apprehenlion of falling. As the horfe recovers his center in a ftraight line of progreffion, by advancing one leg beyond the other, fo will he recover his center in a lateral progreffion, by eroding one leg beyond the other. Thus, if the horfe moves ddeways to the right, he erodes over his left fore and hind legs beyond the right fore and hind legs at the fame period, and thereby recovers his perpendicular pofition. In going to the left he erodes with his right legs. But he would be unable to crofs his legs if his body moved perfectly laterally, he is therefore obliged to advance one fhoulder beyond the other by moving obliquely. When the horfe has been accuftomed to this pace for fome time, it will be necedary that he fhould be taught to perform it with a rider on his back. For which purpofe, if he is required to goON PROGRESSION. 20; to the right, the rider fhould gently fhorten the right hand rein, and crofs his left hand with the left rein over the withers to the right fide, at the fame time gently prefiing the horfe’s flank with his left leg, he will oblige his croupe or hind quarters to move in a parallel dire£lion with the fore quarters. The reverfe of this is to be obferved in going to the left. This pace forms the bafis of all military movements in the cavalry, and muft ever give a fwordfman a moll decided fuperiority over another whofe horfe poffeffes not the fame qualifications, for, by the fmalleft fignal from hand and heel, he can either approach or avoid his adverfary, as occafion may require.- ‘j i ( • n h d £>r& *1370 Xii ; . . I - ■ - ■ :l ■; CJj'i it : •. '-*V;'.7 .Jj lip c ‘(L r FiOit«K>p-CONCLUSION. No amufement can be more inftruHive, or more acceptable to men of rank and fortune, than the cultivation of natural hillory; and no branch of it can be more interefting than that which relates to the horfe. How barren, indeed, of delight is the condition of him who palfes through life an incurious fpec- tator, ignorant of the common properties even of obje6ts which are mod familiar to him, and which are indifperffably necelfary to his exiftence. His mind, perpetually recurring on itfelf for fupport, tries in vain to lhake off the burden of E e indolence,CONCLUSION. 210 indolence, and too frequently feeks employment in purfuits of a degrading and unprofitable nature. In proportion with his want of knowledge, he will be the dupe of impoftors and the prey of villains, and in no inftance will he be more expofed to their artifices, than in that which is combined with the prefent fubjeft. Desirable muft be an acquaintance with the conftituent principles of the numerous produ£lions which the munificent Creator has provided for the benefit of man ; for it is not only fatisfa6lory to comprehend the ufes to which they may be ap- plied, but it is.alfo neceffary to be capable of dif- tinguifhing that which is friendly or hoftile to their oeconomy« But natural hiflorians appear to have dire£ted their refearches principally among thofe animals which inhabit but a fmall -part of the globe, while theyCONCLUSION. 111 they have bellowed but little attention upon thofe which are mod familiar and mod ferviceable. Hence we find the anatomy of the horfe chiedy defcribed by that of the human being, and confequently void of accuracy and truth. The phyfiology of the horfe is furely of as much im- portance as that of the butterdy, and the negle6t it has hitherto experienced, can be attributed only to that propenfity for the marvellous which mod naturalids poflefs, and which has induced them to exercife their labours upon animals that, by their fcarcity, prevent, in mod indances, the pofiibility of controverfy or refutation. But they would have found in the dru6ture and animal oeconomy of the horfe, peculiarities fufficient to have employed their ingenuity to its utmod extent. The veterinary fcience is dill in its infancy, and to the united exertions of the profedion we can alone look for any confiderable progrefs to- wardsCONCLUSION* 212 wards perfe&ion. I fhall therefore conclude with the words of Cicero, which, in the prefent cafe, are exceedingly applicable : “ Multum reftat operis, “ multumque reftabit, nec ulli nato poll mille “ feeula praecludetur occafio aliquid adhuc adji- “ ciendi.” BIRMINGHAM, PRINTED FOR KNOTT AND LLOYD, AT T. A. PEARS0N*3 OFFICE, HIGH-STREET./ .i * '£, >v,,rl "' ■ S0 Mi ' _ 'pi00^' • '/*' ■ a I Hoi t11 " iiitsp irr^.vSf-'fSS/SSsI'-' j-VvVrr-/ - t. •/•> .wrtstvstm -i# ■ V^.:v ■: . f <i« *Sj / -ffz<*7> ^Z.etu'r'ence Del in .Rich *Lcmmnct Jhelxn M. llcmc/hlau Sculp. vPLATE I. AA. THE line which divides the body from the legs, giving the proportion of both. B. C. The lines which divide the body from the fore and hind quar- ters, giving their refpedtive proportions* D. The elbow. E. The ftifle; F. The knee. G. The fetlock. H. The hough. I. The hip. K. The point of the buttock. L. The hip joint, commonly called the whirl-bone —the dotted line from L to E defcribes the pofition of the thigh bone. MM. The thigh.. - ■ . . 'Itirh f & A':i&PLATE II. FIG. i repre’fents the proper oblique pofition of the Ihoulder blade. C marks the center of its motion. A and B give the extent of its motion; E, the point of elevation of the lower part of the Ihoulder when it is advanced. Fig. 2 reprefents a Ihoulder blade more perpendicular in its pofition; A and B, the extent of its motion; E, the point of elevation, which is not fo high, nor fo extenfive, as in fig, i.• - \ - * IPLATE III. FIG. i and 2 reprefent the front view of two horfes. Fig. i defcribes the malpofition of the legs from the knee to the ground. AA. fliews the eloow inclined too much inwards towards the ribs. Fig. 2 gives the proper pofition of the fore legs.< u : , .. » ' v "■ ■ - ■••• ■ • ■ - is- :)< li^x i: [Oiqjii mi; s -jR.ich. Law/'t/trr Jit/in. _M.Haug7dim Sm/p.PLATE IV. FIG. i reprefents a back view of the hind quarters of an ordinary bred horfe, with a flat croupe and high hips. A A. fliow that pofition of the houghs, commonly termed cow-houghed. Fig. i reprefents a back view of the blood horfe. BB. fhow the croupe to be more circular, and the hips lower. AA. fliow the Aide to be wider than the croupe. CC. The proper ftraight pofition of the hind legs,’- ' . ■ ■ • • v ?; i'or* •* 0! .0. c. up tniri J. » ‘T:i :i ,d .6 atfbfoiqift I .OH . -;Vi i (1 bp.. •i-.1' J. A . \ . ; rup j ? . ; ] . •- ■PLATE V. in the back and longer in the quarters than fig- 2. FIGURES i and 1 reprefent two horfes of equal height anci length. The points in which they differ confift in fig. i, being Sorter' ■ • *■dpUOM&tmHJV' •*«jrp >ou*,MVTPLATE VI. FIG. i reprefents the hoof of a horfe contracted In the heels by bad fhoeing. Fig. 2 reprefents the hoof of a colt, of which the quarters and heels are the wideft parts. Fig. 3 gives a view of the hoof when fhod. Fig. 4 gives a fedtion of the hoof, defcribing the laminated fibres of its inward furface, correfponding with thofe of the coffin bone.. - ■ .PLATE VII. A. REPRESENTS the eye of the horfe, in which the pupil is dilated, being in an obfcure light. B. reprefents the pupil contraded by the ftimulus of a ftrong light. C. fhows the membrana niditans, or hawe, brought half way over the'eye. D. fhows the white fpecks in the pupil, occafioned by a partial opacity of the cryftalline lens, or an incipient catarad.' /6 y ■AlaMfu.u- !}£oiuj-h&?it /'// A/tsAi/ as A/>r /!r/ e/rr/rfs Ward. /<PO/.Plato 9 Jtic/i </ JL etw^ence D r7. Fablistied ns Hie def~ direrfs -MarchPLATE IX. THIS plate is intended to defcribe, principally, the peculiar formation of the throat of the horfe. With this view, the other parts of the head have been omitted, and fome liberties have been taken with the perfpedtive, in order to render thofe parts which are defcribed more confpicuous.(////<>£ 'jpg-PLATE X. FIG. i reprefentS the view of the upper orifice of the ftomach, with the fibres of the mufcular coat eroding each other in their direction. Fig. 2 fhews a piece of the oefophagus or gullet, with the fibres of its mufeies, imitating bafket work, by taking their attach- ments beyond the origin of each other.- - ■ 1 31 I if -( Haughton Sculp.PLATE XL FIG. A. reprefents the head of a cart horfe, the features of which are fmall, and its union with the neck abrupt and void of grace. Fig. B. reprefents the head of a blood horfe. The features are larger in proportion, and more animated, and the neck proceeds from the head with a more eafy and elegant line. The lower B defcribes the front view of the head of the blood horfe, which is fhorter and broader in the forehead, proportionably, than the cart horfe A.' . .Pl«rte VI -PfidhW/st/ as t//t -directs .Marr// J.6'01PLATE XIII. FIG. i reprefents the horfe in the walk, in which pace three legs are always on the ground at the fame time. The off fore leg B having completed its a£tion, is preparing to rife, at which moment the off hind leg C alights on the ground, and forms the triangle A, C, D, as fhown in fig. 2.- ' . - .PLATE XIV. FIG. i reprefents the horfe in a gentle trot. C and D mark the diftance of ground paffed over at each motion. Fig. 2 reprefents the darting or elongated trot, in which the horfe gains an additional fpace by the momentum of his body during the period when all his legs are in the air. Thus the letter C marks the ground which the near hind foot occupied before it was elevated; and the letters A and B mark the fpots to which the near fore foot and the off hind foot will arrive when they have completed their adtion.i'. . ' / ■ •' - ' . ‘ ' - •• » . . "