H.1 observations for the sometimes nnirh sooner. They will see their own folly and wickedne.ss nerpetuated in Hieir offspring, whom they rnust not expect to be better than the example and instruction given by themselves. , . , It was the observation of a sensible and experienced woman, that she could always read the fate of her servants who mar- ried; those who had been faithful and industrious in her ser- vice, continued their good habits in their own fami ies, and became respectable members of the community; those who were the contrary, never were successful, and not unfrequently were reduced to the parish. A proper quantity of household articles should be always ready, and more bought in before the others be consumed, to pre>ent inconvenience, especially in the country- A bill of parcels and receipt should be required, even if the money be paid at the time of purchase; and, to avoid mis- takes, let tlie goods be compared with these when brought home. Though it is very disagreeable to suspect any one s honesty, and perhaps mistakes have been unintentional; yet it is pru- dent to weigh meat, sugars, &c. when brought in. and comi>are with the charge. The butcher should be ordered to send the weight with the meat, and the cook to file these checks, to be examined when the weekly bill shall be delivered. Much trouble and irregularity are saved when there is com- p.any, if servants are required to prejiare the table and side- lx)ard in similar order daily. All things likely to be wanted should be In readiness; sugars of different qualities kept broken, currants washed, picked, and perfectly dry; spices p:,unded, and kept in very small bot- tles closely cork^; not more than will be used in four or five weeks should lie pounded at a time. Much le^ is necessary than when Ixtiled whole in gravies, Arc. Where noonings or suppers are served, (and In every house some preparation is necessary for accidental visitors,) care should be taken to have such things in readiness as are projicr for either: a list of several will be subjoined, a change of which may be agree.able, and. If dulymanaged, will be attended with little expense and much convenience. ■\ ticket should be exchanged by the cook for every loaf of bread, which, when returned, will show the number to be paid for; as Uillies may be altered, unless one is kept by each party. Those who are served with brewer’s beer, or any other articles not paid for weekly or on delivery, should keep a book for entering the dates; which will not only serve to prevent overcharges, but will shew the whole year’s consumption at one view. An inventory of furniture, linen, and china, should be kept, and the things examined by it twice a-year, or oftener, if there be a change of servants; into each of whose care the articles used by hun or her snould be entrusted, with a list, as is donu