xliii ^tlSTUESS OF A FAMILY. will be hardened and useless It was a mistake of old. to think that the whites made cakes and puddings heavy; on the contrary, if beaten long and separately, they contrioute greatly to give lightness, are an advantage to paste, and make a pretty dish beaten with fruit, to set in cream, etc If copper utensils be used in the kitchen, the cook should he charged to be very careful not to let the tin be rubited off; and to nave them fresh done when the least defect apjiears, and never to put by any soup, gravy, etc. in them, or any metal utensil; stone amt earthen vessels should be provided for these purposes, as likewise plenty of common dishes, that the table set mav be used to put by cold meat. Tin vessels, if kept damp, soon rust, which causes holes. Fenders, and tin linings of flower-pots, etc- sliould be painted every year or two. Vegetables soon sour, and corrode metals and glazed red ware, by which a strong poison is produced. Some years ago, the death of several gentlemen was occasioned at Salt-hill, by the cook sending a r.agout to table, which she had kept from the preceding day in a copper vessel badly tinned. Vinegar, by its acidity, does the same, the glazing being of lead or arsenic. To cool liquors in hot weather, dip a cloth in cold water, and wrap it round the bottle two or three times, then place it in the sun ; rtnew the process once or twice. The best way of scalding fruits, or boiling vinegar, is in a stone jar on a hot iron hearth ; or by putting the vessel into a saucepan of rvater, called a water-bath. if chocolate, coflee, jelly, gruel, bark, etc. be suflered tofboi. over, the strength is lost. The cook should lie encouraged to be careful of coals and cinders; for the latter there is a new contrivance to sift with- out dispersing the dust of the ashes, by means of a covered tin buckeL Small coal, wetted, makes the strongest fire for the back, but must remain untouched until it cake. Cinders, lightly wet. give a great degree of heat, and are better than coal for furnaces, ironing-stoves, and ovens. The cook should be charged to take care of jelly-bags, tapes for the collared things, etc. which if not perfectly scalded, and kept dry, give an unpleasant flavour when next use>d. t.’old water thrown on cast-iron, when hot, will cause it tc. crack. In the following, and indeed all other receipts, though the quantities may be as accurately directed as possible, yet much must be left to the discretion of the person who uses them. 'I’he difterent tastes of people require more or less of the fla- vour of spices, salt, garlic, butter, etc. which can never be or- rlered by general rules ; and if the cook has not a good taste, and attention to that of her employers, not all the ingredients which nature and art can fumisli, will give exquisite flavour to her dishes. The proper articles should bo at liand, and she