XXXIV observations for the lioiie of raising their offspring above their own situation be well founded. The cultivation of the understanding and disposition, how- ever, is not here ailuded to j for a jiulicious improvement of both, united to firm and early-tauglit reiigious principles, would enable tlie happy possessor of these advantages to act well on all occasions: nor would young ladies find domestic knowledge a burthen, or inconsistent with higher attainments, if the rudiments of it were inculcated at a tender age, wtien activity is so pleasing. If employment be tiresome to a healthy child, the fauU must be traced to habits which, from many cau- ses, are not at present favourable to the future conduct of wo- men. It fretiuentlv happens, that before impressions of duly are made on the mind, ornamental education commences; and it ever after takes the lead: thus, what should be only the embellishment, becomes the main business of life. There is no opportunity of attaining a knowledge of family manage- ment at school; and, during vacation, all subjects that miglit interfere with amusement are avoided. When a girl, whose family moves in the higher ranks of life, returns to reside at her father's house after completing her edu- cation, her introduction to the gay world, and a continued course of ple.asurcs, persuade her at once that she was born to be the ornament of fashionable circles, rather than to stoop (as she would conceive it) to undertake the arrangement of a fa- ir.ily, though by that means she might in various ways aug- ment the satisfaction and comfort of her parents. On the other hand, persons of an inferior siihere, and especially in the lower oriier of middling life, are almost always anxious to give their children such advantages of education .as themselves did not possess. Whether their indulgence be productive of the hap- piness so kindly aimed at, must be judged by the effects, wiiich are not very favourable, if wliat has been taught has not pio- duced humility in herself, and increased gratitude and resi>cct to the authors of her being. Were a young woman brought to relish home society, and the calm delights of agreeable occu- pation, before she entered into the delusive scenes of pleasure, presenter! by the theatre and other dissipations, it is probable she would soon make a comparison much in favour i t the for- mer, especially if restraint did not give to the latter additional relish. If we carry on our observations to married life, we shall fifid a love of employment to be the source of unnumbered plea- sures. To attend to the nursing, and at least early instruction of children, and rear a healthy progeny in the ways of (liciy and usefulness: to preside over the family and regulate the in- come allotted to its maintenance; to make home the sweet re- hige of a husband fatigued by intercourse with a jarring world: to be his enlightened.coinpanion and the chosen friend of his heart: these, these, ate woman’s duties 1 and delightful oi es they are, if haiily she be married to a man whose soul can dulv estunateher worth, and who will bring his sh.are to the co.u-