MISTRESS OP A FAMII.V. xxxix of the want of gifts to the poor in this land; but there is a mode of relief which would add greatly to their comfort, and which being prepared from superfluity, and such materials as are often thrown away, the cxj cnse would not be felt. In the latter part of this work some hints for preparing the above are given. By good hours, especially early breakfast, a family is more regular, and much time is saved. If orders be given soon in the morning, there will be more time to execute them; .and servants, by doing their work with ease, will be more equal to It, and fewer will be necessary. It is worthy of notice that the general expense will be reduc- ed, and much time saved, if every thing be kept in its proper jilace, applied to its proper use, and mended, when the nature of the accident will allow, as soon as broken. If theeconomy of time was duly considered, the useful affairs transacted before amusements were allowed, and a regular plan of employment was dally laid down, a great deal might be done without hurry or fatigue; and it would be a most plea- sant retrospect at the end of tht year, were it possible to enu- rnerate all the valuable acquirements made, and the good ac- tions performed by an active woman. If the subject of servants be thought ill-time<i in a Ixiok upon family arrangement, it must be by those who do not recollect that the regularity and good management of the heads will be insufficient, if not seconded by those who are to execute orders. 11 behoves every person to be extremely careful whom betakes into his service; to be very minute in investigating the character he receives, and cqu.ally cautious and scrupulou£ ly just in giving one to others. Were this attended to, m.any bari people would be incap.acitate<l for doing mischief, by abus- ing the trust reposed in them. It may be fairly asserted that the robbery or waste, which is but a milder epithet for the un- faithfulness of a servant, will be laid to the charge of that master or mistress, who knowing, or having well-found^ sus- picions of such faults, is prevailed upon by false pity, or en- treaty, to slide him into another place. There are, however, some who are unfortunately capricious, and often refuse to give a character because they arc displeased that a servant leaves their service; but this is unpardonable, and an absolute rob- bery, servants having no inheritance, and depending on tlieir fair name for employment. To refuse countenance to the evil, and to encourage the good servant, are actions due to society at barge; and such as are honest, frugal, and attentive to their duties, should be liberally rewardeti, wliich would encoiir.age merit, and inspire servants with zeal to acquit themselves. It may be projier to observe, that a retribuiive justice usually marks perstins in that station, sooner or later, even in this world. The extravagant and idle in servitude are ill prepared for the Industry and sobriety on which their own future welfare ■ji essentially depends. Their faults, .and the attendant punish- ments come home when they have children of their own; and