MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS FOR TBK USB OF THE MISTRESS OF A FAMILY. lx every rank, those deserve the greatest praise, who best acnuit themselves of the duties which their station requires. Indeed, this line of conduct is not a matter of choice but of necessity, if we would maintain the dignity of our character as rational beings. In the variety of female acquirements, though domestic oc- cupations stand not so high in esteem as they formerly did, yet, when neglected, they protiuce much human misery. There was a time when ladies knew nothing beyond their own family concerns; but, in the present day, there are many who know nothing about them. Fach of these extremes should be a\ oided: but is there no way to unite, in the female character, cultivation of talents and habits of u-sefulness? Hapi>ily there are still great numbers in every situation, whose example proves that this is possible. Instances may be found of ladies m the higher walks of life, who condescend to examine the ac- counts of their house-steward: and, by overlooking and wisely directing the expenditure of that part of their husband's in- come which falls under their own inspection, avoid the incon- veniences of embarrassed circumstances. Mow much more necessary, then, is domestic knowledge in those whose limited fortunes press on their attention considerations of the strictest economy ? There ought to be a material difference in the de- gree of care which a person of a large and independent estate bestows upon money concerns, and that of a person in confined circumstances: yet both may very commendably employ some (V)rtion of their time and thoughts on this subject. The cus- tt)m of the times tends in some measure to abolish the distinc- tions of rank; and the education given to young people is nearly the same in all: but though the leisure of the higlier may be well devoted to ele^int accomplishments, the pursuits of those in a middle line, if less ornamental, would better se- cure their own happiness and that of others connected with them. VVe sometimes bring up children in a manner calcula- •ed rather to fit them for the station we wish, than that which It is likely they will actually pos.«ess; and it is in all cases worth the while of oarents to consider whether the expectation oi