sxxviii Onf.ERVATIONS FOR THE rnnce prevails on necessary subjects, among tliose who are not backward in frivolous ones. It is very necessary for a woman to be informed of thcprices and goodness of all articles in common use, and of the best t imes, as we.'l as places, for purchasing them. She should also be .acquainted with the comparative prices of provisions, in order that she may be able to eubstilute those that are most reasonable, when they will answer as well for others of the s.ime kind, bu-t which are more costly. A false notion of i-conomy leads many to purchase, as bargains, what is not wanted, and sometimes never is used. Were this error avoided, more money would remain for other purposes. It is not un- ttsual among lower dealers to put off a larger quantity of goods, by assuiances that they are advancing in price; and many who supply fancy articles are so successful in persuasion, that pur- ch.TScrs not unfrequently go far beyond their original intention, even to their own future disquiet. Some things are better for keeping, .and, being in constant consumption, should be laid in accordingly; such as paper, soap, and candles. Of these, more hereafter. To give unvarying rules cannot be attempted ; for people ought to form their conduct on their circumstances; but it is pre.sumed that a judicious arrangement, according to them, will be found equally advantageous to all. The minutia: of management must be regulated by every one's fortune and tank; some ladies, not deficient in either, charge themselves with giving out, once in a month, to a superintending serv,a>n, such quaniities of household articles as by observation and calculation they know to be suflicient, reserving for their own key the large stock of things usually laid in for very large fa- milies in the country. Should there be several more visitors t ban usual, tliey can easily account for increase of consumption, and vice versa. Such a degree of judgment will be respectable even in the eyes of domestics, if they are not interested in the ignorance of their employers; and if they are, their services will not compensate for want of honesty. When young ladies marry, they frequently continue their own maids in me capacity of house-keeper,s who, as they may be more attached to their interest than strangers, become very valuable serv.ants. To such, the economical observations in this work will be as useful as the cookery ; and it is recora- mendable in them to be strictly observant of both, which, in the course of a year or two, will make them familiar in the practice. It is much to be feared, that for the waste of many of the good things that God has given for our use, not abuse, the mis- tress .and servants of great houses will hereafter be called to a strict accouut. Some part of every person’s fortune should be devoted to charity: by which “ a pious woman will build up her house before God, while she that is foolish (i. e. lends nothing to the laird.) pulls it down with her hands." No one ran complain