OBSERVATIONS FOR THE 1 The ribs are then to be divided Into atout two helpi^, an. an ear or jaw presented with them, with plenty of sauce. ^ joints may either be divided into two each, or pieces may be from them. The ril® are reckoned tlie finest part; but somi people prefer the neck end, between the shoulders. Goose.—Cut off the apron in the circular line a, 6, c, an pour into the body a glass of port wme, and a large tea-spoo. fill of mustard, first mixed at the sideboard. Turn the neck end of the goose towards you, and cut t i vhole breast in long slices from one wing to another; but or' remove them as you help eacli person, unless the company? so large as to require the legs likewise. This way gives me prime bits tlian by making wings. Take off the leg, by puttii: the fork into the small end of the bone, pressing it to the boi' »nd having passed the knife at d, turn the leg back, and, iii liung bird, it will easily separate. To take off the wing, yj your fork into the small end of the pinion, and press it ch to the body; then plit in the knife at d, and divide the joi' taking it in the direction d, e. Nothing but practice will ei ble people to hit the joint exactly at the first trial. When 1 leg and wing of one side are done, go on to the other; but' is not often necessary to cut up the whole goose, unless i company be very large. There are two side-bones by the wir which may be cut off, as likewise the back and lower si- bones ; but the best pieces are the breast, and the thighs af.; being divided from the drum-sticks. jffare.—The best way of cutting it up is, to put the point the knife under the shoulder at o, and so cut all the way do to the rump, on one side of the back-bone, in the line a, 6, the same on the other side, so that the whole hare will be vidod into three parts. Cut the back into four, which, wv the legs, is the part most esteemed. The shoulder must: cut off in a circular line, as c, d, a; lay the pieces neatly on dish as you cut them, an,; then help the company, giving so pudding an^gravy loeveu person.