LIBRARY \uthor : McLEOD (K.) Fitle : The principles of rational medicine... Lee. No. Class Mark Date Volume 50252 b.AG [1879-92]Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b24765661THE PRINCIPLES OF RATIONAL MEDICINE A FAREWELL LECTURE DELIVERED TO THE STUDENTS OP THE CALCUTTA MEDICAL COLLEGE. By Brigade-Surgeon K. McLEOD, A.M., M.D., F.R.C.S.E., Professor of Surgery, Calcutta Medical College. ©afcitffct: THACKER, SPINK AND CO. 1892FEINTED BY THACKEK, SPINK & CO., CALCUTTA.THE PRINCIPLES OF RATIONAL MEDICINE. A Farewell Lecture delivered to the Students of the Calcutta Medical College. Gentlemen, I have been in the habit for some years back of concluding my lectures with a word of advice as regards the future—an ad- monition on some particular point connected with the practice of the profession of medicine. I have done so in the hope that, spoken at the very end of the course, these words might arrest the attention and abide in the memory, and perhaps produce a lasting influence for good. As this is the last lecture of the last course of lectures on the Principles of Surgery which I shall have the privilege of delivering in this school, I have thought it well to improve on my annual cus- tom by selecting a specially important subject of admonition, and presenting it to you with greater elaboration than I have hitherto consi- dered necessary. In a course of 70 lectures of one hour’s duration, it is impossible to do more than expound general principles, and one is compelled to leave details to be filled in by students through observation and study. The great aim of the professor should be to describe( 4 ) and illustrate the best possible manner of apply- ing in practice the principles which, founded on anatomy, physiology, and pathology, are finally formulated from and tested by clinical research and study. This has been my chief object in addressing you here; and if I have succeeded in imparting to you sound principles and impressing upon your minds sound methods of investigating, recognising and healing diseases, I have done all that under the circumstances it was possible to do. But,underlying all my teachings, there has been present with me one ruling thought, which I have endeavoured to illustrate and commend for imitatiou at every step, and which I would now make the subject of these closing remarks. It is this—stated briefly and didactically— Base your practice upon rational PRINCIPLES. The human mind is so constituted that it is almost inconceivable that any human being should deliberately perform any action whatever without a reason of some kind. To act otherwise would be madness. And, in undertaking the important and responsible office of healing disease, men have always professed to proceed on rational grounds of some description. The question therefore comes to be—What kind of reasons are they which are entitled to reliance in practising the healing art? 1. In the first place, I may dismiss as almost outside the pale of reason all mysterious, mira- culous, and transcendental pretensions; and that appeal to human credulity which vaunts one particular remedy as curative of most, if not all> ailments to which the human body is subject. It. is curious how well-persistent and loud asse-( 5 ) veration succeeds in this world. And in no de- partment of business is wide and blatant adver- tising so useful as in that of the charlatan. I need not waste time by exposing the folly, or temper by denouncing the mischievousness of this kind of practice. It is a case of knavery on one side and simplicity on the other. Assuredly the barefaced advocacy of an in- terested vendor constitutes no sufficient reason for the use of a nostrum which is credited on no foundation of fact with attributes little short of miraculous. 2. Another basis of practice which is more plausible, but at the same time very deceptive, if not dangerous, is simple imitation. Something has been advantageously done or given in certain circumstances, and the argument is that the same thing is always likely to be equally advantage- ous in the same or similar circumstances. This seems reasonable enough ; but there are two pos- tulates which are necessary for the successful application of this principle, namely, first, that the reputed effect has really been achieved by the means employed; and, second, that the cir- cumstances are the same. In order to settle these postulates, skilled observation p,ud careful iuquiry are necessary, and these are generally wanting in this sort of practice, which is usually adopted by ignorant persons and in a blind hap- hazard sort of way. Rational imitation ground- ed on scientific knowledge and thorough study of pathology and therapeutics is legitimate; but mere imitation without such knowledge and study is beset with fallacies aud perils at every step.( 6 ) 3. Akin lo tin’s false method of practice is pure empiricism, which, without burdening itself with much study of disease or drugs, contents itself with observation of symptoms and with tra- ditions as to what has been found good for such or such a complaint. Experience is continually appealed to as a justification of this kind of practice, but the experience is too often a super- ficial and unreal experience and the important elements of research and introspection are too often wanting. Scientific empiricism, which re- presents an experience based on systematic in- vestigation and on knowledge acquired by scien- tific methods duly tested and proved, is a very different thing from the empiricism of the igno- rant and indolent, and it is against this that I wish to warn you. 4. So far, the so-called principles of practice which I have indicated may be designated bv the terms “ rule of thumb ” or “ hand to mouth but there is in the human mind a hankering after laws and a hunger for guiding principles. Com- bined with that, there is also a desire for finality, for some resting place, some rock on which amid the surging of waves and shifting of sands, the feet may rest secure. The history of medi- cine gives ample evidence of this great and constant striving after some general law which will dominate and guide both the science and the art of medicine. We find it in physiology, in pathology, and therapeutics. We have had mechanical, chemical, and vital theories of life ; solidist, humoralist, neuro-pathical, and parasiti- cal theories of disease; and in therapeutics various formulae have been advanced which have been( 7 ) vaunted as absolutely certain and infallible rules for the selection of drugs. These formulas have given origin and name to various sects or schools of practitioners, such as the homoeopa- thists, allopathists, autipathists, monopathists, and so forth. This method of practising by and in obedience to formulae saves a great deal of trouble, and presents a semblance of scientific accuracy and method. Given the disease, fiud the drug that fulfils the formulated indication and success is assured. But the questions arise —Can the phenomena of life and disease be in- cluded in a principle or expression or formula of this sort ? Is such a formula, if true at all, universally so ? Are the phenomena of disease and drug action so definite and uuiform that they cau be brought under the sway of fixed rules of this kind ? I am inclined, for reasons which I shall presently state, to answer these questions in the negative ; and, in addition, it is necessary to inquire-—How have these formula been arrived at ? Have they been reached by scientific methods? Are they capable of being scientifically tested and proved ? And, do they depend on objective or subjective evidence— the evidence of the senses aid by instruments of precision or of the imagination? You will find on examining these formulae that they do not satisfy these requirements, that they are the products of fancy, rather than the outcome of scientific research, and that they represent par- tial truths and superficial analogies rather than deductions from scientific observation and ex- periment. I do not therefore advise you to pin your faith on formula}. They are mostly delusive( 8 ) ami visionary, opposed to scientific progress* and inconsistent with what we know of the in- finite mutability of the manifestations of physio- logical, pathological, and therapeutical action. 5. If, then, the grounds of practice which I have described are unreal and misleading, what are the foundations of rational medicine? Briefly and generally stated they are these :— ls£.—We have to deal with the man not with the disease — with the human being, who has under some noxious influence acquired some disorder of health, and our task is to remove this disorder and to restore him to health. It is the being, the organism, not the name with which we must concern ourselves. 2nd.—The subject of our attention — the hu- man being — has attained the organic structure which he presents for our study through a process of evolution, and this fact places him in relation to the past history of organized beings and of the human race, from the earliest period regarding which we are able to obtain knowledge until now, and brings him into affi- nity with all other created beings, with which he still retains certain resemblances in structure and functions. 3rd.—What he is and does is the result of an adaptation to his surroundings under certain laws of progress and perfection which are still in operation, and which impel him towards a still higher and more useful life. 4th.—We have to consider the human being as in a state of incessant action and change ; and the activities and changes which he manifests consti- tute his life; and these are accurately adjustedC 9 ) to activities and changes occurring in his envi- ronment, to which lie reacts under well-defined laws. The influences acting upon man are mani- fold and infinite iu their variations. They are cosmic, climatic, hygienic, dietetic, and medi- cinal. The place he inhabits, the air he breathes, the food he eats, the forces of nature which he encounters, the objects with which he comes in contact, the foreign materials other than food which he may breathe or swallow—all these act upon him and produce certain reactions. 5th.—Man possesses the power of adaptation to these various influences within certain limits so that he preserves a normal type of structure and standard of vitality while being acted on by and reacting upon them. This is called health. Beyond these limits, the influence of these agencies may give rise to disorder or disease, or this may result from the impairment of his power of adaptation. 6th.—There is no new element introduced in- to the body by these disturbing agencies unless in the shape of foreign material which has effected an entry into it. As regards the dis- turbances which constitute disease, they consist tromafuuctioual pointof view iu excess, derange- ment, impairment or abolition of the ordinary manifestations of life ; from a structural point of view, they are aberrations or reversions, or de- generations ; from a chemical point of view,they are materials of simpler composition and lowlier degree inclining to inorganic types. “ There is,” Virchow observes, “ no other kind of hetero- logy m morbid structures than the abnormal manner in which they arise, and this abnormity( 10 ) consists in the production of a structure at a point where it has no business, or at a time when it ought not to be produced, or to an extent which is at variance with the typical formation of the body/’ In other words, pathology is physiology deranged under the operations of materials or influences abnormal or hurtful in kind or degree. 7 th.—We possess control over these things. We can ascertain which are beneficial and which noxious, and within what limits the power of adaptation prevails. We can shun them, we can modify them, we can remove them, and the exercise of this power constitutes the art of medicine, preventive and curative, in its highest and best sense. 8th.—But even after the organism has suc- cumbed to some deleterious agent or agency, it possesses a power of recovery from the damage done. This power may be exercised in the way of calling upon that reserve force which we possess in our body as a whole and in all our tissues or organs, or by bringing into existence remedial processes, such as vomiting, purging, inflammation or fever, or by neutralising or ex- pelling the cause of disorder, or by giving the damaged system or organ rest, or by a process of repair when structural damage has been done. In all these and other ways the natural power of recovery possessed by the body and every part of it is displayed. Without such a power our efforts to cure disease would be futile. All these efforts must be made in accordance with the ascertained laws of natural recovery, aud we cau only be said to cure disease in the sense that we place the individual in the best possible position( 11 ) for the most speedy and effective operation of these natural processes of recovery. 9th.—But it is important to note that not only is the body as a whole subject to injurious in- fluences, but that each separate part of it may undergo damage, and then the injury of the part may affect the whole or other parts in relation to it. From this point of view, the several or- gans of the body are related to each other as if they were separate organisms acting and react- ing, on the rest of the body as an environment, and they undergo sundry compensatory and vicarious changes which also tend to promote the recovery of the whole in disease. 10th.—Thus, both in pathology and therapeu- tics, we have to take account of causative and curative influences outside the body and inside the body ; and the more thoroughly we are ac- quainted with these influences and their effects, the more competent are we to restore disordered function to order and help damaged structure to undergo repair. These then are the principles of rational medi- cine stated in very general terms. They consti- tute the foundation of the healing art and are of universal application—cover every circum- stance and case in which as practitioners we may be required to act. From these principles, several conclusions of great interest as affect- ing the position aad practice of our profession flow:— Mark, first, the extent of the field whence knowledge lias to be reaped for use in practice. It is simply co-extensive with all science, and there is not a department or fact of science which( 12 ) does not or may not bear more or less directly on the objects of our studies and efforts. Then, secondly, observe how vain it is to expect finality in medicine and how foolish to reproach its ministers with changes in theory and practice. Science is ever moving forward, ever addino- to its conquests, ever gaining in breadth, in accuracy, in clearness,and in truth; and every such advance in scientific knowledge imports wisdom and power into our proceedings as doctors. From this consideration springs the obligation of diligence, of incessant study, of observation and experi- ment, of continual striving to learn as long as the facultyof learn ing remains; and this very un- certainty and mutability of the science of medi- cine, which is cast as a reproach by the thought- less, constitutes to the earnest and studious the great attraction and charm which the profession of medicine possesses. Thirdly, note the wide scope which these views impart to our profession as an art. Drugs and operations (and in these terms I include all medi- cinal and mechanical methodsof treatment) do not represent the end and object of our calling. It is our business to study all influences, climatic, hygienic, dietetic, and medicinal, which affect the body for good or evil, and so control these as to maintain health, guard against disease, and restore soundness. Drugs and operations are the least and last of our resources. Fourthly, with what dignity and importance does this aspect invest our profession. There is nothing in nature which does not directly or indirectly concern us, and no situation or act of any human being which may not interest us.( 13 ) And in all the affairs of life, public, domestic, and personal, we are asked to intervene and advise, as the possessors of a knowledge and power which largely affect the success, the wel- fare, the happiness of man and meu. Fifthly, in all this it is necessary that we should cultivate a spirit of humility in view of our incapacity to cope with all the subtle agencies acting from without and within which occasion disorder of health and endanger life. We are still in many respects very ignorant and very helpless. It becomes us fully to recognise and admit this, and to strive to our utmost for more light and better skill. The phrase “ I cured” is as hateful as it is untrue. It is the shibboleth of quackery. The utmost credit that we have a right to claim is that the patient re- covered under our management; aud before we can establish a case for the benefit of our inter- vention, we must be prepared to prove that re- covery has taken place in a larger proportion of instances in consequence of such intervention, or that the patient has done better, recovered more quickly, than if he had been left alone. Aud this attitude of humility in the presence of great responsibilities and much shortcoming should suggest a feeling of tolerance towards others in so far as that feeling can be properly entertained. It is impossible to sympathise with or in any way eucouarge those who for their own advantage, in ignorance and in greed, trade upon the infirmities of humanity: but there are many who have honestly per- suaded themselves that they have found in some empirical method or plausible formula( 14 ) a key to the treatment of disease. The method or the formula may contain a germ of truth ; as long as it is used for the presumed benefit of the patient rather than of the practitioner, so long may we honor the motive while we regret and condemn the narrow or mistaken doctrine. Depend upon it the more enlarged and philo- sophical our conception of our duties and res- ponsibilities—the higher our aims and wider our grasp—the happier will our life be and more productive our methods. The profession of medicine is to its earnest votaries a source of endless interest and pleasure, and if 1 have suc- ceeded by the words which I have now spoken in impressing upon you a loftier and truer notion of its scope and dignity and responsibility, I feel assured that I have bestowed upon you something far transcending; in value material riches, namely, that which will render your fu- ture lives more fruitful and enjoyable. In taking leave of you and of this college, I cannot offer you a better wish than that you should reap from the study and practice of rational medi- cine all the pleasure and profit which, when pro- perly and unselfishly cultivated and applied, it is so singularly and eminently capable of con- ferring.MEDICAL EDUCATION. Tiie.rise and progress of medical education in India is a subject of congratulation alike to the Indian Medical Service by which the results have been achieved, and to the Government and people who have so greatly benefited thereby. Commencing with bedside instruction in Military and Civil Hospitals, and the training of “native doctors”, medical education has been developed step by step until we now possess medical colleges in the presidency-towns teaching • and training men up to university standards on a par with those of other civilized countries. The instruction imparted in these colleges not only euables the educated youth of the country to satisfy the requirements of university examining boards in the country, but the college courses qualify for the examinations of corporations and universities in Great Britain, and ambitious youths are thus enabled to commence, and all but complete, their medical education in their own country ; and subsequently, at a minimum of trouble and expense', place a coping stone thereon by means of obtaining a British diplo- ma or degree. Not only so but the colleges provide- competent teachers for the vernacular schools, which have been established throughout Iudia, and the advantages of rational and syste-( 2. ) malic medical education have through this agency been extended to the masses. The ex- tent to which Government lias profited hy the educational services of its medical officers, which it is but right to say have hitherto always been warmly encouraged, needs no detailed de- scription. In the Army, European and native, in civil stations, in hospitals and dispensaries every- where, the official requirements and charitable enterprises of Government have been most fully and faithfully ministered to by the passed students of Indian medical colleges and schools. And the wants of the population have also been in very abundant measure satisfied by means of the services of a multitude of men who have systematically studied the human body and its diseases, and have been trained to habits of rational observation and thought, and taught the employment of rational. methods of treat- ment. The time has now come when the State should place the stamp of legal* recognition on such men (and this term must now include women as well) by means of some simple measure of medical registration. And it is necessary also, while recording thankfulness and praise for the past, to consider the future of medical education in this country, and how it can best be made to keep pace with the rapid advances of the age. Hitherto no difficulty has' been experienced in obtaining from the ranks of the public services men competent by reason of education, talent, energy, and enthusiasm, to perform the duties .of professors and teachers in medical colleges and schools. Teaching appointments possess both here and at home, strong attractions for( 3 ) medical men, who recognise in these the best opportunities for fulfilling the highest functions of the profession to which they have devoted their lives. This spirit is not likely to weaken or wane, and this spirit it is which, we are firmly convinced, stimulates aud supports the ambition which medical men have to obtain such offices, and it is a spirit which ought to be encouraged to the full. Medical education, as medical science and art expand, is becoming a more laborious and engrossing occupation. It is a noble work but it is also an arduous business, and it makes demauds on a man’s time and energies in a man- ner and to an extent which it is difficult to over- estimate. To possess au aptitude for instruct- ing, to acquire the necessary knowledge and gain the art of instructing—these things come not by intuition but by labour and experience. And further, to reap the ever-ripening ears of growing knowledge, to sift the wheat from the chaff, to decide what to give, and what to with- hold—these require patient study and deliberate thought. Moreover, the professor ought him- self to be a student, to observe and investigate, to advance his subject, to originate and devise, to meditate and publish, to utilize his oppor- tunities, to be a man not only of learning, expe- rience aud skill but of culture, and originality ; and these are matters which necessitate devotion of life and time, and exclusion of petty distrac- tions, interests aud pursuits. And this brings us to the main object of our present contention which is that, looking to the present requirements of medical education, teachers ought to be re- lieved of all duties aud employments which do( 4 ) not directly and immediately bear upon their work. In England and the Colonies this desir- able result is attained by engaging for the du- ties of his office the whole time of the incumbent. With regard to certain subjects such as anatomy, chemistry and physiology, this arrangement is eminently advantageous, and this has been re- cognized in India. The time was when the pro- fessor of chemistry in Calcutta engaged in general practice, and when physiology was taught by a man encumbered with many other pursuits public and private. The professors of these important subjects are now enabled to devote their undivided time to teaching these branches theoretically and practically,- except in so far as Government avails itself of their special knowledge for cognate purposes. But it is otherwise with the remaining chairs. Their occupiers have had- imposed ou them a multitude of petty and miscellaneous duties which have no direct relation to the subjects which they teach, and the remuneration connect- ed with the chair has been adjusted so that the professors are compelled to engage in general practice for the purpose of earning a liveli- hood. The distinction between the general practitioner and the professor has become a very substantial one in Britain, and it is an emi- nently useful and convenient one. The latter mostly confines himself to consulting practice, which permits of his ordering his own time and reserving for the duties of his chair and for study and research as much leisure as he may consider requisite or desirable. This is the sort of ar- rangement which we should wish to see carriedI 5 ) out in India. It would be unjust to the public, official and non-official, to deprive them of the special skill in medicine, surgery, midwifery, and ophthalmology obtained by study and hos- pital practice by the professors of these sub- jects ; but in India, as elsewhere, the distractions of general practice are inconsistent with that exclusive or predominant devotion to the work of teaching, which the vast extent and rapid growth of medical service 'now demand. Our contention is, in short, that the professors of medical colleges should be relieved of presi- dency surgeons’ duties, and prohibited from en- gaging in general or family practice. Their services should be available to the public, offi- cial and non-official, in consultation as that term is understood in England—without fee of course iu the case of Government officers,—and they should be permitted to undertake professional work, such as referee for insurance companies, university examiner, editor or correspondent of a medical journal, &c., &c., which could be per- formed during the hours of leisure to which every man is entitled. An arrangement of this sort would necessitate a considerable in- crease in the present scale of salaries, which was drawn up when the value of the rupee was considerably higher than it is, and the expenses of living considerably lower, and on the assump- tion that the permission to engage in general practice was of itself a substantial addition to the. official pay. It would also necessitate a revision iu part or in whole to the old system of separate presidency surgeons. This would undoubtedly add to the cost of medical services ;C 6 ) but the added cost would be more than com- pensated by the increased efficiency of teaching, which would then constitute the whole, in place of as at present a fraction, of the official occupa- tion of medical professors.PRECIS OF OPERATIONS PERFORMED IN THE WARDS OF THE SECOND SUR- GEON, MEDICAL COLLEGE HOSPITAL, DURING THE YEAR 1879. By Surgeon-Major K. McLeod, A.M., M.D., Professor of Surgery, Calcutta Medical College. In recent discussions which have taken place regarding the comparative merits of different methods of surgical treatment as affecting more particularly the success of surgi- cal operations, two points have been indicated as specially desirable—first, the publication of surgical statistics and- second, the elucidation of these by means of brief abstracts of cases. It has been urged that isolated cases or selected groups of cases are apt to lend support to contracted views and par- tial inferences, and that broad and true deductions can only be rightly drawn from wide inductions collected without reservation or bias. It has, on the other hand, been remarked with truth and justice that the circumstances, etiological, hygienic and per. sonal, affecting the issue of surgical cases and operations vary so much that a mere numerical statement without some detail or explanation is useless or worse. Several eminent surgeons have of late placed the results of their operative practice on record, and the system is likely to become more common. Two difficulties occur, however, on the threshold of any attempt of this kind. The first is, that no common classifi- cation of operations is followed. Without something of this kind a comparison of particular operations may be made, but a comparison of totals is impossible. The second difficulty consists in the detailing of cases, as it is by no means easy to steer clear of the Scylla of meagreness and the Charybclis of prolixity. Some reporters have given abstracts of all cases—brief abstracts of the less important and fuller details of the more important. Others have omitted the former and given notes only of the more interesting and grave. The first method appears to be the better of the two, holding the main object of the record in view, namely, to supplement( 2 ) the figures by written descriptions. This is the plan which has been followed by Professor Spence of Edinburgh (vide 'Jlie Edinburgh Medical Journal, Nov. and Dec. 1879), and he has striven to avoid both the dangers to which allusion has been made. As regards classification, if that laid down in the “ Nomenclature of Diseases” were followed, though it is neither exhaustive nor perfect, a more accurate com- parison of results would be possible. In preparing this paper I have followed the classification in question as closely as possible, and have adopted Professor Spence’s plan of giving details of all cases, short or long* according to their relative importance and the necessity of explanation. Every operation performed in the Second Surgeon’s wards during the year has been included. These wards were under the charge of Surgeon-Major W. J. Palmer, M. D., during the first three months of the year, and under my own during the last nine. The details now published will give a good idea of the surgical practice of the Hospital and constitute the commencement of a sexies of similar reports which I hope to be able to prepare from year to year. Of some of the operations performed by Dr. Palmer I possess no personal knowledge. Others were handed over to me when I took over charge. Those performed by Dr. Palmer have been specially indicated. The following return represents the results of the year, and includes all the cases treated in which operations of any kind causing detention in hospital were found necessary :— Description op Operations. Number of operations. Died. I.—Operations fin the eye and its appendages. 1. Excision of upper eyelid for malignant tumour, 1 0 2. For fistula lachrymalis and lachrymal obstruction, 1 0 3. Excision of the eyeball with the rest of the contents of the orbit,'... 1 0 Total, 3 0( 3 ) 1$ DESCRIPTION OF OPERATIONS. o> .2 3 a CD s II.—Operations on arteries. 1. Ligature of temporal artery, i 0 III.—Operations on joints. 1. Dislocation of hip-joint reduced, 2. Compound dislocation of knee-joint re- 2 0 duced, ... 1 1 (shoulder, ... 1 0 3. Extension of stiff joints -(elbow, 2 0 1 knee, 3 0 4. Incision of knee-joint, 1 0 Total, IV.—Operations on lone. 10 1 1. Partial excision for necrosis, 3 0 V.—Amputations:—A. For injury. 1. Primary, of the shoulder joint, 1 1 2. „ of the forearm, 2 0 3. „ of parts of the hand, 5 0 4. „ of the thigh, 1 1 5. Secondary, of the arm, 6. For spreading traumatic gangrene, of 1 0 the thigh, 1 1 B. For disease. 7. For malignant disease, of the arm, 1 0 8. „ „ of the forearm,... 9. For caries of tarsus, of the ankle (Syme’s 1 0 operation), 1 1 Total, i i 4 VI.—Removal of Tumours:—A. Malignant. 1. Scirrhus of Mamma and axillary glands, 2. Epithelioma of penis, i 3 1 0 3- „ „ thigh, 1 0 4. Sarcoma of neck, 2 1 6. „ „ lower jaw, B. Mon-malignant. 1 1 6. Fibro-cartilaginous of cheek, 1 0 Carried over 9 3( 4 ) Description of Operations. Brought forward 7. Fibroma of lower jaw, 8. Lipoma of cheek, 9. „ ,, thigh, 10. Enlarged axillary glands, ... 11. Vascular tumour of right eye-brow, 12. „ „ „ thigh, ... 13. Elephantiasis of scrotum, ... 14. „ „ labia, 15. Cystic tumour of neck, 16. Condyloma of anus, 17. External and internal piles,... 18. Polypus of rectum, Total VII.—Removal of foreign bodies. 1. From nose, 2. From pharynx, ... Total, VIII.—Removal of Calculi. 1. Vesical, by lateral lithotomy, 2. Do., by lithotrity, 3. Urethral, by urethrotomy, ... Total, IX.—Incisions. 1. Tracheotomy 2. For strangulated hernia— (a.) with opening sac. (b.) without opening sac, 3. For radical cure of hernia (Wood’s opera tion,) 4. For atresia oris, 5. For stricture of rectum, 6. For Fistula in ano, o 2 <5.2 2? 3 « Died. 9 3 1 0 1 0 1 1 1 0 1 0 1 0 28 5 2 2 1 0 1 0 2 0 1 0 50 11 2 0 2 0 4 0 2 0 3 0 1 0 6 0 7 4 1 1 1 0 3 0 2 0 1 0 1 1 16 6 Carried over, ...( 5 ) Description op Operations. i Number of op nations. j Died. Brought forward, ... 16 6 7. For anal fissure, 1 0 8. Perinseal section, 3 2 9. For large abscesses, 19 3 10. For hematocele, 5 0 11. For carbuncle, ... 2 0 Total, X.—Reparative operations. 1. For cicatrix after bum of forearm and 46 11 hand, 2. For cicatrix after operation for scrotal 1 0 elephantiasis, ... 1 0 3. For hare-lip, 1 0 4. For phimosis—circumcision, 2 0 5. For hypospadias, 1 0 Total, XI.—Operations not classed. 6 0 1. Hydrocele tapped and injected, 2 0 2. Nerve-stretching, 3 1 Total, 5 1 Grand Total, 151 28 I shall now proceed to give a brief sketch of each of the cases included in the foregoing return. In drawing up these notes I have been greatly aided by Assistant-Surgeon Nitai Charn Haldar. I 1.—Excision of the upper eyelid for'maliynant tumour.— Hindu set. 17. Growth of two years’ duration; partially excised ; chloride of zinc repeatedly applied ; recurred ; left hospital unrelieved. (Dr. Palmer.) 2. Operation for fistula lachrymalis and lachrymal' obstruction.—A young Hindu woman was admitted for exten- sive necrosis of the frontal bone of syphilitic origin. This was treated successfully by the application of dilute hydrochloricC C ) acid according to the plan recommended by Dr. Palmer. (Vide Indian Medical Gazette, October 1877.) The bone softened and crumbled down, and was replaced by healthy granulations which subsequently cicatriced. While under treatment an abscess formed in the lachrymal sac which was followed by lachrymal fistula. The canaliculus was slit and duct, which was found to be strictured, gradually dilated. The fistula was cured by this means. 3. Excision of the eyeball with the rest of the contents of the orbit for glioma.—Hindu male, act. 4 ; seven months’ duration, tumour of eyeball and behind it. Ball extirpated and orbit cleared out. Chloride of zinc (40 grains to 1 oz.) applied ; wound dressed with boracic acid ointment spread on thin muslin. Healed up satisfactorily. Left hospital 23 days after operation. II. 1.—Ligature of temporal artery.—A Manilla seaman, mt. 60, got a severe lacerated wound of his forehead by the fall of a plank on his head. Profuse arterial bleeding oc- curred which continued after his admission. A vessel was tied in the wound, but the bleeding continuing and the tissues being very pulpy, the anterior branch of the super- ficial temporal was cut down on and ligatured, which com- pletely stayed the haemorrhage. The wound healed up satisfactorily. III. 1.—Dislocation of hip-joint. (a.) A Mahomedan male, set. 65, was knocked down by a bullock; the hip-joint was dislocated backwards, head of femur resting on dorsum ilii. Came to hospital a week after the accident. Dislocation reduced under chloroform by manipulation. The bone subsequently escaped from the acetabulum. (Dr. Palmer.) (&.) Mahomedan boy, set. 9, sustained dislocation of the head of the right femur into the sciatic notch about a month ago. Put under chloroform and the dislocation reduced by manipulation ; the limb kept in position by splint and exten- sion. There was slight prominence of the right trochanter major after reduction, but the shortening and inversion were corrected. 2. Compound dislocation of knee-joint.—A Hindu labourer, set. 38, was brought to hospital on 12th November with( 7 ) compound dislocation of right knee caused by a bag of wheat having fallen on his thigh. The condyles of the femur protruded through a transverse wound behind the joint and the posterior tibial pulsation could not be felt until reduction had been effected. This was done under chloroform by extension. The wound was syringed out with carbolic lotion, two drainage tubes inserted, the wound stitched, an antiseptic dressing applied and the limb kept at rest by a splint. Rum and beef-tea were given frequent- ly and ice bags applied to the joint; temperature rose to 104-6° next morning. He had severe rigors and a pulse of 114. Drainage was free, and no accumulation took place in the joint. He was thirsty and feverish (103-6°) all day, and complaining of pain in the joint: discharge profuse. Symptom of collapse set in during the night, and prostration increased until he died of shock at 6J A. M. on the 14th. The discharge continued profuse, and was devoid of foetor to the last. 3. Extension of stiff joints. (a.) Anchylosis of shoulder.—Hindu male, set. 16, had an abscess in the left pectoral region, which pointed in the axilla, 7 months ago. It was opened imperfectly, hence resulted in a sinus. There was burrowing of matter in all directions. The abscess was cured by means of free drainage and free incisions. During the course of treatment he had an attack of erysipelas which extended along the left aim and involved the whole of the trunk. The left arm was kept constantly at his side. He was treated at home, and applied at the hospital for relief on account of a stiff shoulder. The left shoulder joint was found anchylosed. The arm could be raised from the side to a slight extent, and could be moved backwards and forwards. No rotation could be accom- plished. Under chloroform the joint was moved forcibly in almost every direction ; in doing so grating was detected. The head of the humerus was separate from the shaft, but there was no displacement. By passive motion the movements were rendered free. Discharged after a month much relieved though the movements of the shoulder were not restored to their full extent.ft C 8 ) (b.) Anchjlosvt of elbow joint.—An Ooria male, set. 31, about a year and half ago sustained compound fracture of the left forearm add severe lacerated wounds of the same. These were produced by the teeth of a crocodile. Profuse suppuration and sloughing ensued, and bits of necrosed bones came away. He kept his forearm in a straight position, i. e. in a line with the aim. On admission the left elbow was found ancliylosed. A few sinuses were situated in the middle of the forearm leading to necrosed bone. The muscles Were partially destroyed. The fingers were very weak. Put under chloroform, the elbow was bent forcibly to less than a right angle. During the procedure the bones of the forearm gave way as the union was not very firm. The forearm was put up in splints. The joint was forcibly moved under chloroform on two more occasions. The sinuses healed up. The bones united firmly. The movements of joints were much freer. There was slight inflammation of the joint after each forcible movement. Discharged after 79 days. (c.) Hindu girl set. 9 (married). Had small-pox two months ago, followed by several symmetrical abscesses about the shoulders and elbows. Both the elbows were stiffened, thickened and painful. A bit of the right acromion was found to be necrosed and was removed. The joints were forcibly moved under chloroform. Passive motion was afterwards regularly maintained. As the muscles were atrophied, they were stimulated by means of electricity. Discharged after 74 days, much improved. (d.) Anchylosis of knee-joint.—Mahomedan youth fet. 20. Had small-pox six months ago ; about a month afterwards two abscesses formed—one in each leg. The lower limbs were supported on pillows in a flexed condition. Since then the knees could not be stretched properly. Flexion of the knees complete ; they could be extended to. more than a right angle. The right knee freer in its movements than the left. The joints were completely stretched under chloro- form and put up in McIntyre’s splint. Gradual exten- sion by the same splint has been tried without benefit. There was slight effusion into the joint which soon disappeared. After a month he was allowed to walk about. Then he was( 9 ) subjected to another operation for the removal of bits of necrosed bone from left fibula and right radius. He was discharged almost completely cured in 75 days. (e) . Bengalee Brahmin, male, set. 52. Had inflammation of right knee seven months ago, which was followed by anchylosis. The joint was bent almost at right angles. Slight flexion and extension could be produced by a little forcible movement. He was put under chloroform and the joint stretched fully. The fibrous adhesions gave way. The limb was then put up in McIntyre’s splint in a straight position. The patient was very nervous, and was discharged at his own request with a comparatively straight limb in two days. (f) . Mahomedan male set. 40. Fifteen months ago he had a cut on the inner aspect of the left knee caused by an axe. Apparently the joint was laid open. There was suppuration in the joint as well as in the adjacent portions of thigh and leg. The wound healed up in four months, but the joint became anchylosed. It was fixed at an obtuse^ angle. Flexion and extension almost absent. For a few days by means of elastic bandage and Mc- Intyre’s splint the limb was kept extended (very slightly). After a week, finding the result to be not very satisfactory, the joint was forcibly stretched under chloroform. The patient objected to undergo the pain necessary for his cure, and left the hospital in twelve days somewhat improved. In addition to these cases the same plan of treatment, namely, forcible extension of stiff joints and liberation of adherent tendons under chloroform, was pursued in cases of compound fracture. The restoration of movement to the fingers in cases of thecal adhesion is a most satisfactory performance if forcible manipulation is resorted to while the adhesions are recent—as soon in fact as the inflam- matory condition causing them has subsided. All such manoeuvres are exquisitely painful, and should be invariably resorted to under chloroform, at any rate on the first two or three occasions. Case (c.) was one of several which came to hospital about the same time in which severe multiple abscesses followed attacks of small-pox. In two of them the abscesses were symmetrical; in one there had been epi-( 10 ) physitis of both elbow joints affecting all the epiphyses connected, with the joint. Sinuses led to surfaces of bare bone, and the joints felt like a bag of necrosed fragments. These sinuses closed up and recovery took place without resort to operation. 4. Incision of Imee-joint for suppurative synovitis.—A Hindu youth set. 18 years. Fours years ago he had syno- vitis after prolonged walking—of the left knee only. Was cured by aspirating in this hospital. A second attack was cured by rest only. On admission the joint was considerably swollen ; about S ounces of puriform fluid were drawn off by aspirator. Re-accumulation of fluid having taken place, an opening was made into the supra-patellar pouch with a knife under spray and about 4 ounces of pus let out. Dressed with carbolic gauze. This was done a month after his admission. The operation was followed by no constitutional disturbance. The dressings were changed every third or fourth day. The discharge gradually diminished in quantity, the dis- tension of the joint disappeared and he left the hospital after ten days with a stiff knee joint, but a serviceable limb. IV.—Partial excisions for necrosis. Ca). Lower jam.—Hindu male set. 40. Fourteen months ago he had suppuration of the gums on the left side. A month afterwards a swelling appeared near the angle of the lower jaw on the same side ; it burst and formed into a sinus. Another sinus formed soon after in the same situation. Both of them led to bare bone. Took mercury for rheumatism. After admission the opening (lowermost) was enlarged and almost the whole of the left ramus of the lower jaw removed in pieces. The wound healed up by granulation. Discharged in 81 days cured. (b.) Radius and ulna.—Hindu boy set. 8. Fell from a height of about 20 feet; sustained compound fracture of lower end of left humerus, and also of radius and ulna of the same side a little above the wrist. The wound of the arm healed up without much difficulty. Necrosed pieces of radius and ulna about an inch in length removed about sis weeks after the accident. Discharged with a stiff elbow after 164 days.( 11 ) (c.) Ibmur.—Hindu male, set. 30. Compound comminuted fracture, one month before admission, of lower third of femur. Lower fragment drawn behind and within upper, the end of which protruded through the skin outside of the knee-joint. Masses of dead femur removed, bone refractured and placed in better position. The wound was putrid on admission, and continued so after operation, though an attempt was made to render it aseptic. Septic suppuration with severe constitutional disturbance set in which eventually implicated the knee-joint rendering amputation of the thigh necessary. This operation was recently performed by Dr. Kaye under whose care the case came, and I understand that though the man was reduced to a state of extreme prostration before operation, he rallied to some extent but eventually succumbed having survived the amputation over a week. V.—Amputations.—A. For injury. 1. Primary of shoulder joint.—Mahomedan male, set. 32. Severe machinery accident. Eight arm and forearm thoroughly smashed. Amputation (primary) at shoulder joint, flaps ex- ternal and internal cut from without. Elastic cord did not command axillary sufficiently. A good deal of bleeding in consequence. Died of shock in two days. 2. Primary of forearm.—(a.) Hindu male, set. 36 ; hand smashed by machinery; forearm lacerated and partially decorticated: primary amputation of forearm—middle— antiseptic. Recovered; discharged in 34 days. (b.) Hindu female, set. 36. Jute mill accident; wrist, hand and lower part of forearm completely smashed: primary amputation at middle of forearm. Recovered; discharged in 26 days. Both these operations were performed under strict antiseptic precautions. Case (b) presented a typical antiseptic result— absence of inflammation, suppuration, putrefaction and con- stitutional disturbance and union of the flaps by first in- tention. In case (a) part of one of the flaps sloughed in conse- quence of original bruising, but the progress was satisfactory notwithstanding, and repair of the amputation wound rapid.( 12 ) 3. Primary of parts of the hand.—(a.) A native male, set. 27, came in with smash of index, middle and right fingers and lacerated wound of the hand both on the dorsal and palmar aspects, and also of the thumb, its metacarpo- phalangeal joint being exposed. The ring finger was ampu- tated through its middle phalanx; the middle finger through its metacarpo-phalangeal joint, and the index finger through the metacarpal bone. The operation was performed under chloroform, with antiseptic precautions. The result was satisfactory, and patient was discharged after 39 days with a still thumb. (b.) A Hindustanee lad, set. 10, while working with a straw- cutting machine, injured his hand. There was compound dislocation of the first phalanx of the index finger and second phalanx of the middle. Extensive laceration of the soft structures ; a longitudinal lacerated wound on the ball of the thumb, the metacarpo-phalangeal joint being exposed. The index and middle fingers were removed with the greater part of the metacarpal bones under chloroform. The thumb, ring and little fingers were saved. Discharged after two months with a useful hand. (c.) A Mahomedan male, set. 30. Right hand caught be- tween the wheels of an oil-machine. The index finger almost entirely divided just at its middle, and its metacarpal bone fractured. The middle finger pulverised. The metacarpal bone of the ring finger was fractured, and there were lacerated wounds situated on the dorsal and palmar aspects of the hand communicating with the seat of fracture ; slight cut on the finger. The half of the index and whole of the middle fingers were removed under chloroform. The patient absconded after a month, the wounds being quite superficial. (d.) A Mahomedan adult male, set. 26. The two distal phalanges of the index and middle fingers crushed by a machine. There was also a lacerated wound on the dorsum of the hand. The first phalanges of the fingers were saved. Discharged after 34 days with slight power over the stumps. (e.) A Mahomedan adult, set. 35. Thumb entangled in a( 13 ) pulley and smashed. The phalanges removed under chloro- form : is still under treatment. 4. Primary of the thigh.—Hindu female, act. 40. Fell from a roof 22 ft. high. Colies’ fracture of right wrist; compound comminuted fracture of left femur ; fracture of lower jaw ; concussion. Amputation (primary) by modified circular me- thod at lower third of thigh. Died in 3 days of exhaustion. Full details of this case, which presented many points of special interest, will be found in the September (1879) number of the Indian Medical Gazette. 5. Secondary of the arm.—Hindu female, set. 18. Fell into the fire a month before admission in a fit. Amputation through middle of arm. Recovered. Discharged in 51 days. (Dr. Palmer). 6. For spreading traumatic gangrene.—Hindu male, ret. 40. Sloughing ulcers of right foot, extending. History of syphi- lis, mercury, drink and opium. Left leg amputated a few years ago for similar condition. Syme’s amputation per- formed; gangrene set in (traumatic spreading.) Amputa- tion above knee by long posterior and short anterior flap. Gangrene speedily supervened ; death in 3 days. Amputations for disease. 7. For malignant disease of the arm.—Hindu male set. 42. Severe bum of left arm and forearm at 6 years of age; epithelioma commenced two years ago, involved periosteum of inner condyle and fascia covering origins of muscles. Amputation antiseptically of lower third of arm by modified circular plan. Healed by primary adhesion. Discharged in 18 days. This amputation pursued a typical antiseptic course notwithstanding that, owing to tight bandaging, the stump cavity became distended with venous blood, and it was necessary, on the tjjird day, to open the wound and remove the clots which were creating tension and some constitutional disturbance ; these disappeared immediately on removal of the tension. 8. For malignant disease of the forearm.—Hindu male, set. 50. Epithelioma of wrist following injury sustained one year ago. Amputation by modified circular plan at upper( 14 ) third of forearm ; antiseptic ; primary union Discharged in 25 days. 9. For caries of the tarsus.—Hindu male, set. 40 ; 2 years’ duration : health bad. Extensive caries of tarsus and lower end of tibia and fibula. Syme’s amputation ; died of pleurisy in six days. Of the four fatal cases of amputation two died of the combined effects of the injuries sustained and operation performed. In the third, the operation was performed as a last resort in a man whose health had been shattered by dissipation, and who was suffering from delirium when the amputation was done. The fourth was also a bad subject, exhausted by long-continued disease. In none of the amputations did septicremic symptoms arise, and those which were treated under strict antiseptic pre- cautions recovered as rapidly as it is possible for amputations to recover. VI. A. 1. Scirrhus of mamma.—Hindu female, set. 40. One year’s duration ; left axillary glands extensively dis- eased. Breast removed and glands extirpated. Died of pleurisy in five days. Antiseptically performed but became putrid. 2. Epithelioma of penis. (a). Chinaman, set. 60 ; 12 or 13 years’ duration. Penis amputated, near pubis ; urethra stitched to skin. Re- covered. Discharged in thirty days. (Dr. Palmer). (b.) Hiudu, set. 25.; one year’s duration ; lateral skin flaps and corpus spongiosum divided f inch longer than corpora cavernosa. Good result. Discharged in 37 days. (c.) Hindu, set. 45. ; 8 months’ duration. Corpora ca- vernosa removed at root. Corpus spongiosum healthy, separated from corpora cavernosa ; brought out below testes about 2 inches in front of anus; testes covered in by scrotum, which healed rapidly ; troublesome sinus behind them which continued to discharge an abun-( 15 ) dance of foetid pus until patient left hospital. This sinus burrowed beneath the skin of the pubis, laying bare the bone ; the man got a severe attack of pneu- monia, and was removed against advice by his friends in a weak and critical condition. 3. Epithelioma of thigh.—Hindu male, set. 60. Eight thigh ; burn 46 years ago. Ulcerated 30 years ago, and has been growing rapidly of late ; fascia lata slightly involved but not muscles ; removed with subjacent fascia ; wound 8 in. by 4. Cicatrised soundly. Discharged in 93 days. 4. Sarcoma of neck. (a.) Hindu male, set. 16 ; 9 months’ duration, of glan- dular origin ; round-celled sarcoma attached to tranverse process of atlas. Removed antiseptically. Patient very- restless ; putrefaction gained access to wound cavity ; died of pyaemia in nine days. (h.) Hindu female, aet. 30 ; 5 or 6 years’ duration, grow- ing rapidly of late ; right side of neck beneath lower jaw. Removed by deep dissection. Recurred on two occasions. Second and third operations—one extirpating parotid gland. Recurred a fourth time ; nothing further could be done, and patient left hospital with the growth rapidly increasing in the cicatrix. 5. Sarcoma of lower jaw.—Hindu, set. 45, of bad con- stitution ; five months’ duration ; right half of lower jaw. Removed by incisions from angle of mouth and through middle of lower lip and chin ; found to have involved palate and fauces and spread along temporal and ptery- goid muscles into temporal, zygomatic and pterygoid fossa}. Part of upper jaw removed. External carotid artery tied. Died of pneumonia in two days. 6. Fibro-cartilaginous tumour of cheek.—Mahomedan, jet. 32 ; 12 years’ duration. Removed by single incision. Recovered. Discharged in 60 days. (Dr. Palmer).' 7. Fibroma of lower jaw.—Hindu male, tet. 20 ; 2£ years’( 16 ) duration. Left ramus and almost whole of body involved. Removed without difficulty ; two incisions made through middle of lower lip and angle of mouth. Body divided opposite right first bicuspid ; ^sub-periosteal disarticula- tion of left ramus. Satisfactory recovery. Discharged in 42 days. 8. Lipoma of cheelc.—Hindu male, set. 35 ; left side. Bemoved. Recovered. Discharged in 44 days, could not close left eye ; left with salivary fistula. (Dr. Palmer). 9. Lipoma of thigh.—Hindu male, set. 12 ; 6 years’ duration. Upper part of left thigh anteriorly ; weighed 6 lbs. Removed by single incision antiseptically r was doing well when tetanus supervened on 11th day; died 18 days after operation. 10. Enlarged axillary glands.—Negro Sailor, set. 28. Abscess on left side of chest two years ago ; burst ; necro- sis of 5th rib detected ; sequestrum removed. Axillary glands began to enlarge six months ago, attained very large dimensions. All the glands in the axillary space removed antiseptically. Recovered. Discharged from hospital in 63 days after operation. 11. Vascular tumour of right eyebrow.—Hindu, set. 16 ; right eyebrow ; 10 years’ duration. Excised. Recovered. Discharged in ten days. (Dr. Palmer). 12. Vascular tumour of thigh.—East Indian, set. 13. Congenita], size of a nut. Involved skin and fascia lata ; partially excised ; fundus ligatiwed ; done antiseptically. Recovered. Discharged from hospital with sound cicatrix and without a trace of the tumour in 30 days. 13. Elephantiasis of the Scrotum. (a.) Hindu, set. 40 ; 4 years’ duration ; general health bad. Suppurative hsematocele on right side : laid open, and tunica, testicle and scrotum removed a few days afterwards ; weighed 2 lbs. Died in 9 days of tetanus. (Dr. Palmer).( 17 ) (b.) Hindu, set. 32 ; 2 years’ duration. Preceded by hydrocele, which was tapped and injected 4 years ago ; general health good ; 8 lbs. Recovered. Discharged in 67 days. (Dr. Palmer). (c.) Hindu, ret. 32 ; 6 months’ duration ; general health good ; 1 lb. Recovered. Discharged in 48 days. (Dr. Palmer). (d.) Hindu, set. 37 ; 3 years’ duration; general health good ; 1 lb. Recovered. Discharged in 75 days. (Dr. Palmer). (e.) Mahomedan, set. 45 ; 3 years’ duration ; general health bad ; 1 lb. Recovered. Discharged in 38 days. (Dr. Palmer). (j.) Hindu, set. 20 ; 4 years’ duration ; general health good ; 1 lb. Recovered. (Dr. Palmer). (g.) Hindu, set. 34 ; 6 years’ duration ; health good. Removed bloodlessly in the usual manner ; 11 lbs. 14 oz. Large hsematocele on left side. Recovered. Discharged in 54 days. (Dr. Palmer). (h.) Hindu, set. 58 ; 15 or 16 years’ duration ; general health indifferent ; arcus senilis. Right testicle removed ; cord slipped; free venous haemorrhage; inguinal canal slit up ; bleeding point secured with difficulty ; died in 22 hours, of exhaustion ; no new bleeding. Large varicocele on right side ; granular kidneys. (i.) Hindu, set. 30 ; about 5 years’ duration ; general health indifferent. There was urinary fistula in the penis ; weight 1 lb. 10 oz. Slight hydrocele of the right tunica. A drainage tube passed into the urethra. Prepuce of cartilaginous hardness. A few warty growths around the meatus. Recovered ; the fistula contracted. Discharged after 48 days. There was a history of syphilis. (j.) A Madrassee, set. 32 years. Duration 2 years. History of syphilis. Weight 2 lbs. Had a urinary fistula in penis. A tube was passed into the urethra. General health good. Recovered after 61 days.( 18 ) W A Hindustanee, net. 40. Six months’duration. Ul- ceration at the root of the tumour. General health bad. Weight 2 lbs. Died six days after the operation of exhaustion. (l■) Hindu, net. 58. Hydrocele 15 years ago. The tumour began to grow a year and half ago ; weight 10 ounces. On the 14th day of operation had erysipelas, which disappeared after 11 days. Recovered after 92 days. Had enlargement of spleen. (m.) Hindu, set. 29. Duration 2 years. Prepuce consi- derably hypertrophied. Weight 12 ounces. Washed with chloride of zinc lotion (40 grs to 1 oz.) The whole wound got covered with deep sloughs. The right testicle was de- stroyed. The left was quite loose at first, but became adherent after a few days. General health indifferent. Discharged after 96 days. (n.) Hindu, set. 32. Duration 9 years. Sloughing of the scrotum had occurred ; both testicles protruding ; looked anaemic ; fairly nourished. Weight 12 ounces. Recover- ed after 84 days. (o.) Hindu, aet. 25. Duration 4 years. Elephantoid thickening of mons veneris and lower part of the abdomen. A slight collection of fluid in the left tunica; weight 2 lbs. 8 oz. Had erysipelas on the 8th day of the operation; recovered after 15 days. Discharged after 64 days. The swelling of the pubis was much less. (p.) A Hindustanee, set. 50. Duration 15 years. Ad- mitted with suppuration of the right tunica : weight 2 lbs. 8 oz. The right tunica thickened and contained purulent and sloughy material : had haemorrhage from the wound ; suffered from collapse for more than 24 hours. General health very good. Recovered after 73 days. (q.) Hindu, aet. 40. Duration 2 years. Both legs swollen ; general health good ; no organic mischief ; weight 3 lbs. 4 oz. Lost about 8 ounces of blood from inefficiency of the elastic cord ; the right tunica( 19 ) thickened and almost cartilaginous : the left one healthy. There were symptoms of prostration for a few days. Discharged after 79 days. (r.) A Ilindustanee, ast. 32. Duration 5 years ; general health good ; weight 5 lbs. 2 oz. Penis imbedded. On the 9th day of the operation there was erysipelatous redness over the abdomen. Had persistent hiccough, and died on the 14th day of the operation. (s.) Hindu, ret. 23. Duration said to be one year and a half ; general health good ; weight 6 ounces. Hydrocele of right tunica. Cured in 54 days. (t.) Hindu, set 32. Duration 5 years. Well nourished ; no organic complication. The tumour traversed by lymph channels ; weight 2 lbs. 9 oz. Testicles healthy. Discharged in 71 days. (u.) East Indian, jet. 31. Duration 3 months. The scrotum had a mammillated appearance ; clear lymph containing filarise came out in a stream on puncturing the lymph channels. Sound health ; no organic mischief ; weight 10 ounces. Cured in 79 days. (v.) Hindu, set. 27. Duration 8 years. Had stricture of the urethra and urinary fistulas. Body not well nourished; spleen slightly enlarged ; weight 1 lb. 1 oz. Had iscliio rectal abscess, which was opened. Absconded after 64 days almost cured. (w.) Mahomedan, jet. 31. Duration six years ; health bad. Had enlargement of spleen and liver (chronic), and chronic bronchitis. Was kept under tonic treatment for 44 days. Then the tumour was removed ; weight 8 lbs. 3 oz. A large hydrocele on the left side, a small one on the right. Had inflammation of the right cord (simulating erysipelas). Discharged after 78 days. (x.) Mahomedan, jet. 35. Duration 5 years. Both legs thickened; health good ; weight 7 lbs. 3 oz. Large hydrocele on the left side ; a small on the right side. Discharged cured in 106 days.( 20 ) (y.) Hindu, aat. 35. Duration 10 years ; health very good ; weight 2 lbs. 10 oz. Had hydrocele of both tunicse which were cured by iodine injection. No collection of fluid in them. Discharged in 72 days. (z.) A native, ®t. 35. Duration 5 years; health in- different. Radial artery branched off very high up ; weight 2 lbs. 4 oz. Hydrocele on both sides. Recovered in 58 days. (<*■) Native, set. 37. Duration 8 years ; countenance anaemic: not very well nourished; weight 3 lbs. 2oz. Hydrocele on the left side. The right tunica of cartila- ginous hardness. On the 7th day of the operation bad secondary haemorrhage from the wound. Died on the 10th day exhausted. ((i.) Native, aet. 40. Duration not known by the patient. The growth had been rapid for five months. General health not good. Had chronic bronchitis. Weight 1 lb. 8 oz. Both tunic® thickened. Recovered. All these tumours were small. In fact the operation has become so well known and popular that patients now-at-days resort to the hospital for relief while the growth is small, and large tumours are rarely met with. The safety of the operation has been greatly enhanced by the use of Dr. Partridge’s adaptation of Esmarch’s elastic bandage and cord described in the Indian Medical Gazetteer January 1875. The use of boracic ointment has also diminished risk by securing, when properly applied, al- most complete asepsis. These large wounds do however become putrid notwithstanding the use of antiseptics, and 3 of the cases contracted erysipelas, of which one died. Of the remaining four fatal cases, one died of the effects of primary haemorrhage from an immense varicocele which it was found difficult to ligature, and the other of secondary haemorrhage ; the fourth died of tetanus, and the fifth of exhaustion. He was a feeble subject, as many victims of this disease are. The cica-( 21 ) trization of the wound occupies from 2 to 3 months as a rule. The skin covering both penis and testes was removed in every instance as experience has proved the necessity of this step to obviate recurrence. 14. Elephantiasis of the Labia. (a.) Hindu female, ret. 24. One year’s duration. Very delicate ; enlarged spleen. Tumour removed almost bloodlessly. Wounds were cicatrizing when she got an attack of erysipelas succeeded by peritonitis. Died in 21 days. (b.) Hindu female, ret. 30, prostitute. Commenced a year ago ; history of syphilis. Labia majora and minora much hypertrophied. Polypoid masses springing from front and back wall of vagina ; urethra pushed back and enormously dilated. (Had evidently copulated through urethra.) All the masses removed. Was making a good recovery when she got a severe attack of erysipelas : was recovering from this when a relapse took place. Died of meningitis 49 days after the operation. 15. Cystic tumour of neck.—Hindu male, ast. 16 ; situated between hyoid bone and thyroid cartilage below skin ; 2 years’ growth. Removed antiseptically. Recovered in 14 days. Linear cicatrix. 16. Condyloma (anus).—A Hindu female, set. 25 years. 'I he tubercles were noticed a month ago. There was a history of true syphilis and leucorrhoea. There were also two fissures. The growths were excised by a pair of scissors under chloroform and the sphincter divided lor the fissure Discharged cured after 36 days. 17. Piles (internal and external). (a.) A Mahomedan male, aet. 29 years. History of piles for 3 months, and ulceration of the rectum after dysen- tery. 1 here was also a fissure-like condition. Put under chloroform; about 4 piles excised (internal and external.) ihe internal ones clamped, excised and cauterised. The( 22 ) sphincter ani divided for fissure. Absconded after a fortnight. (b.) A Hindu male, aet. 40. History of piles for about 18 years. There were masses of piles both internal and external. Was very anaemic on account of loss of blood from them. Under chloroform they were clamped, excised and then cauterised. The sphincter was divided to prevent subsequent contraction. The bleeding stopped, general health improved. Discharged after 50 days with slight contraction of the anus. 18. Polypus (Rectum.)—An East Indian boy, set. 34. History of bleeding from the rectum for almost a year. On examination polypoid growths were detected about an inch above the anus. Put under chloroform ; one as large as an almond was brought down with polypus forceps, seized with a clamp, and cauterised. Another gave way as it was being brought down. Not much bleeding. Discharged after 17 days cured. VII. 1. Foreign bodies removed from nose. 1. Both cases were children, and the foreign bodies were easily removed by means of the scoop end of a director. 2. Removal of foreign bodies from the pharynx.—In one of these cases the foreign body was the vertebra of a fish, the tranverse processes of which had pierced the aryteno-epiglottidean folds on each side. It was caught by the spinous process and removed. VIII. 1.—Lateral lithotomy. (a.) Hindu male, set. 30. Symptoms of years’ dura- tion ; lateral lithotomy ; discharged well in 39 days. Uric calculus, weight 45 grains. (Dr. Palmer). (b.) Jew, aet. 4. Symptoms of 2 years’ duration. Lateral lithotomy. Weighed 90 grains. Recovered. Discharged in 31 days.( 23 ) 2. Lithotrity. (a.) Makomedan male, set. 30. Lateral lithotomy performed a few years ago. Present symptoms recent. Crushing performed in two sittings. Recovered. Dis- charged in 4 days. (Dr. Palmer) (b.) Ooria Hindu male, set. 20 ; 8 months’ duration. Small stone causing retention ; crushed. Recovered. Dis- charged in 6 days. (c.) Hindu male, set. 35. One year’s duration. Crushed on six occasions. Discharged in 75 day's. 3. Urethrotomy.— Symptoms of two days’ duration. Two calculi extracted after incision into urethra. Catheter retained ; cystitis. Removed by friends after a month in a sinking state. (Dr. Palmer). IX. 1.—Tracheotomy. (a.) English sailor, set. 25. Diphtheria. Died in 17 hours. (Dr. Palmer). (b.) Hindu, set. 26. Laryngitis of 4 days’ duration. Recovered. Discharged in 91 days. (Dr. Palmer). (e) Hindu female, set. 28. Laryngitis and oedema glottidis of 5 days’ duration. Recovered. Discharged in 35 days. (d.) Hindu female child, 13 months of age. Diph- theria of four days’ duration. Operation rendered neces- sary by extreme dyspnoea. Died next day. (e.) Hindu male, set. 65. (Edema glottidis ; respira- tion ceased during operation and had to be re-estab- lished by Howard’s direct method. Recovered. Dis- charged in 28 days. (f.) Hindu male, set. 35. (Edema glottidis 5 day's ; great dyspnoea. Died of pneumonia in 2 days. ({]•) Hindu male, set. 25. Sloughing sorethroat. Great dyspnoea. Died of acute bronchitis in one day. 2. For strangulated hernia. (a.) With opening sac,—C. M., Manila seaman, set. 45.( 24 ) Hernia clown for 31 hours. All the symptoms of stran- gulation and peritonitis; very low. Sac laid open; intestines gangrenous. No adhesion at neck of sac. Died in 6 hours. (b.) Without opening sac.—Jew, set. 60. Ruptured 50 years ago; down for 21 hours. Irreducible, tense, painful, distended with serum ; symptoms of strangula- tion not extreme; taxis tried in vain with chloroform and ice. Herniotomy without opening sac ; stricture at external ring. Recovered. 3. For radical cure of liemia (Wood's operation). (a.) Mahomedan male, set. 50. Ruptured 12 years ago. Right inguinal hernia. Been down for four days. No symptoms of strangulation. Reduced by taxis under chloroform ; large hydrocele on the same side. Wood’s operation performed antiseptically on two occasions. Effusion of lymph on 1st occasion moderate ; hernia still descended on coughing or exertion. Success com- plete on second occasion. Interval between operations 45 days. (b.) Irishman, sot- 35 ; 5 years’ duration. Hernia about the size of an orange. Recovered. (Dr. Palmer). (c.) Hindu male, set. 39. Came in with hernia testis consequent on sloughing of scrotum caused by violent taxis. By careful strapping and dressing the testes were completely covered with skin. Wood's operation performed when wound healed, antiseptically. Abundant effusion ; no suppuration. Discharged apparently quite cured one month after operation. 4. For Atresia Oris. (a.) A native lad, aet. 8 years, was salivated for fever ; sloughing of the right cheek, ulceration of the gums, and necrosis of the lower jaw followed. The jaws were completely tied down to each other by a cicatricial band, and an opening existed in the upper lip leading( 25 ) to the mouth. The bands were divided under chloroform and the jaws kept apart. This was followed by a little improvement. Removed by his father after a fortnight before the completion of the treatment. (b.) An East Indian girl, set. 7, could hardly open her mouth after an attack of cancrum oris. The bands, which were situated on the right side, were divided under chloroform and the jaws were afterwards separated by means of gags. Discharged almost cured after a month and half. 5. For stricture of rectum.—A European infant, aged 12 months. Just after birth great abdominal distension was observed. After careful examination a small open- ing was found at the situation of the anus with a small nodule in front of it. The opening was enlarged by incision next day, and was dilated by wax bougies. Three months afterwards the child was subjected to a second cutting operation on account of contraction of the parts. During the subsequent treatment of the case fistulous communication between the urethra and rectum was established by rough probing (as was described by the mother of the patient). On admission a small open- ing admitting an ordinary index finger was seen in the situation of the anus. A crescentic fold of mucous membrane was situated on the posterior wall of the canal. Urine escaped freely through the so-called anus, and fmcal matter through the urethra. The child had to strain very much during defalcation. He was put under chloroform ; the anal aperture enlarg- ed posteriorly, and then the crescentic band was divided completely. The rectum was pulled down and its edges stitched to the lips of the wound with silk ligature. Within a few days the end of the alimentary canal became adherent to the skin wound. No contraction followed, and the patient was discharged after 52 days. Circumcision was performed for congenital phimosis.( 26 ) The urethral fistula continued open. 6. For Fistula in ano.—The patient contracted erysi- pelas during treatment and died of that disease. 7. For anal fissure.—A Japanese male, set. 30, came in for fissure of the superficial layer of the sphincter which was divided without chloroform. Discharged after 17 days cured. 8. Perinceal section. (a.) Hindu, set. 26. Old stricture; retention for 4 days. Bladder distended to navel ; extravasation; drowsy ; urethra divided without staff and Syme’s catheter entered into bladder : died in a few hours. (Dr. Palmer). (b.) Hindu, set. 25. History of stricture and peri- nseal fistula. Some urine discharged through rectum and perinseum. Catheterised before admission ; several false passages, large abscess in perinaeo. Cock’s operation ; died in five days of uraemia. Catheter had been passed into rectum (!) before admission ; perinseum and prostate riddled with false passages. The section was perfectly correct, the urethra being opened in the middle line and just in front of prostate. (c.) Mahomedan male, set. 45. Severe symptoms of bladder inflammation ; suspicion of encysted calculus. Cut; no stone found. Great relief after operation. Dis- charged cured in 30 days. 9. Large Abscesses. (A.) Iliac. (a.) East Indian girl, set. 5; fall 6 days ago, followed by abscess on right side, opened above Pou- part’s ligament. Died of septicaemia in 7 days. (Dr. Palmer). (b.) Plindu male, aet. 45. One and half months’ dura- tion. Opened antiseptically below Poupart’s ligament. Discharged cured in 44 days. (c.) Hindu male, aet. 21. 2 months’ duration, pointing( 27 ) above Poupart’s ligament. Opened antiseptically at this point. Recovered. Discharged in 70 days. (d.) Hindu male, set 12. One month. Opened beneath Poupart’s ligament antiseptically ; good recovery. Dis- charged in 26 days. The three last cases remained aseptic throughout and made excellent recoveries. (B.) Ischio-rectal. (a.) Hindu male, set. 24. Admitted with a large ischio-rectal abscess of 12 days’ duration. It burst of itself after admission as a catheter was being passed for the relief of his bladder. The opening was enlarged, and the sphincter divided; dressed with carbolic oil and lint. The cavity extended upwards along the rectum backwards to the sacrum and forwards into the perinseum. On the 27th day had an attack of erysipelas which disappear- ed after a fortnight. Discharged perfectly cured after 86 days. (Dr. Palmer). (b.) Hindustanee male, set. 30. Had an inflammatory swelling in the right ischio-rectal region. The abscess resulting from it extended to the other side of the rectum which was thus encircled. Laid open freely ; 4 ounces of foetid pus let out. The sphincter divided. Dressed with cotton and carbolic oil. Discharged cured after a month. (c.) Hindu male, set. 27. Had symptoms of abscess about the rectum 10 days ago. It was quite small and encroached more into the perinseum than backwards. Treated in the same way. Discharged cured after a month. (C.) Of bach. An East Indian girl, set. 14 years. There was a history of fall 9 days ago from a height of about 4 feet, which was followed by a swelling in the back. On admission the bladder was relieved of about two and half pints of urine ; uo signs of paralysis of limbs. A( 28 ) large abscess was situated on the back, which was opened under spray (under chloroform) and about 3 ounces of healthy pus let out. Discharged after 84 days. Had enlarged spleen. (D.) Of right side. Native male, set. 26. Had a swelling in the right side with fever and inflammatory symptoms. It turned into abscess. The matter burrowed along the inter- muscular planes of the abdomen and passed through the external abdominal ring into the scrotum. Here a small opening formed, through which matter dis- charged freely, after a fortnight. The abscess, which was situated just below the costal arch, was laid open freely. A large slough (probably the whole of the internal oblique muscle) was drawn out through the opening. Drainage tubes put in. Is still in the hos- pital ; doing well. (E.) Faecal. (a.) A stout Punjabi Mahomedan, net. 40, was ad- mitted with a lumbar abscess of a fortnight’s duration. The iliac fossa was swollen and fluctuating. The abscess was opened antiseptically beneath Pouuart’s ligament. The pus was extremely foetid. Diffuse cellulitis ex- tended beneath the skin of the thigh in all directions. The patient lived for 44 days. The opening continued to discharge very offensive matter with a distinct foetid odour. Diarrhoea and prostration were the immediate precursors of death. A communication with the coecum was found after death through the appendix verntiformis, and the body of the ilium was bare and infiltrated with gangrenous pus. (h.) A middle-aged lascar was taken ill about a month before admission with fever and pain in the right ingui- nal region where a swelling formed. He had passed pus per rectum a few days before he came to hospital. A( 29 y globular swelling to tbe right of the Iinea alba and below tbe level of the umbilicus was found to contain pus, and was laid open. The discharge was fseculent. He fell into a state of prostration with diarrhoea, and died in about two months. A large aperture of commu- nication with the coecum was found. The abscess cavity and interior of the bowel showed large polypoid masses of fibrinous lymph impregnated with fseculent matter. (F.) Gluteal. (a.) A native male, ast. 30 years. A large abscess extending from the crest of the ilium to below the trochanter major. About two pints of pus let out. There was profuse discharge which was all along sweet. Dressed almost every day with carbolic gauze. The whole thickness of the ala of the ilium necrosed and was absorbed. After a long struggle the patient was cured and left the hospital with stiffness of the knee and hip of the same side, after about 8 months. The cavity was kept aseptic throughout. (b.) Native male, aged 28 years. Came in with a large gluteal abscess situated between the gluteal muscles. At first opened under spray and about six ounces of pus let out. Sinuses burrowed in all direction, and the patient died of chronic dysentery after 3 months. Dressed with carbolic oil. (Dr. Palmer). (G.) Of thigh. (a.) An East Indian male, set. 14. First appeared 17 days ago. It was situated in the upper part of the thigh underneath the vessels. An incision was made on the inner side of the thigh on the adductor brevis and the director and finger carried along the inter- muscular space. About 5 ounces of laudable pus let out. Dressed under antiseptic precautions. Discharged after 54 days cured. Had severe constitutional dis- turbance and asthma.( 30 ) (b.) A Mahomedan male, set. 20. Had inflammation of one finger resulting in necrosis of last phalanx about a fortnight ago. Abscess of the thigh formed about a week ago. It was situated close to the femur. About an oflnce of pus let out under spray ; the discharge was foetid next day. The cavity filled up without any complication. Another (axillary) abscess formed and was opened by the same method. Discharged after 40 days. (c.) Native male, set. 45. Commenced 15 days ago. Situated on the inner aspect of the thigh at about its middle. About 8 ounces of pus let out. Dressed with carbolic gauze under spray. Discharged cured after 2 months. The limb was put up in splint. (d.) Native male, set. 50. Duration 20 days. After fever. It burst of itself, and about 15 ounces of thin whitish fluid flowed out. Dressed with carbolic gauze after injecting the cavity. Had troublesome sinuses which were not cured until rest was secured by means of splint. Discharged after 4 months and half. (e.) Ooria female, set. 35. Large abscess of thigh above the knee. History of injury a fortnight before. Opened under chloroform and under spray ; pus about 5 ounces. Discharged cured after 38 days. (II.) Of ankle. East Indian, set. 24. Had severe inflammation of the left leg and foot; collections of matter formed about the ankle which were opened under chloroform. Com- munication existed between the abscess cavity and the joint. Altogether 4 incisions were made. Discharged cured after 65 days with a stiff ankle joint. These abscesses were of such magnitude, were situated in such important neighbourhoods, or required such elaborate manipulations for opening and treating them, that I have included them in the list of operations. It is extraordinary how natives of Bengal, whose cousti-( 31 ) tutions are depressed by fever, syphili- or mercury, run into pus. Stripping and infiltration of bone are very common in these huge abscesses. If putrefaction gains access into the abscess cavity, dysentery and fatal exhaustion are a very common result. Under antisep- tic management, with attention to the general health, rapid repair takes place, and even when bone has been involved, recovery though slower is certain, the bone becoming molecularly disintegrated and absorbed as in case (F, a) where the finger could be passed through the ala of the ilium from without into the iliac fossa. 10. For Hcematocele. (a.) A Scotch sailor, set. 40. Duration about 14 years. Commenced without any apparent cause except constant labour. Put under chloroform, a portion of the right thickened tunica excised and clots removed. Recovered after severe constitutional disturbance in 67 days. (Dr. Palmer). (b.) Hindu male, set. 41. History of injury 5 years ago. For one month pain had increased with fever. On incision under chloroform a few ounces of pus let out. The cavity communicated with that of the tunica, and also extended outside it. A large mass of half decoloris- ed clot scooped out. Cured in 35 days. (c.) An East Indian, set. 27. Duration according to his statement one month. No history of injury. The tunica was laid open freely under chloroform, and was thickened to about £ inch, A portion of it excised. The edges of the wound brought together by stitches and horsehair used for drainage. Had severe inflammation of the part arid great constitutional disturbance. Discharg- ed perfectly cured after 64 days. (cl.) Hindu male, set. 25. Native of North-west. Commenced to grow 12 years ago. Was quiet for a long time. Had become uncomfortable for about 4 months.( 32 ) The scrotum as large as a cocoanut. The right tunica, which was thickened, was laid open freely and clots' removed. The hydrocele of the left testicle was tap- ped a few days afterwards, in order to relieve tension and prevent eaping. A swelling appeared which led to a suspicion of iliac abscess. It subsided without any unpleasant symptom. Was discharged cured after 2 months. Operation performed under chloroform. (e.) Native, aet 26. Commenced 7 years ago. No his- tory of injury. Large as a cocoanut. Laid open freely : clots removed. Tunica not excised. Is still under treatment. Profuse suppuration and sloughing. Per- formed under chloroform. Most cases of hsematocele met with in this country have been preceded by hydrocele, the tunica from injury or degeneration getting filled with blood, which is found in various stages of disintegration, and I have found it best simply to lay open freely the sac, not to excise any portion of it however degenerated. The thickened tunica acts as a sort of splint, keeping the testicle in position and preventing the occurrence of hernia testis. The tunica becomes absorbed and a satisfactory cure ensues. Antiseptic treatment by means of boracic ointment spread on gauze is of great value. 11. For Carbuncle. (a.) A European merchant, set. 73 years. Had had an inflammatory swelling in the back for about 20 days, which was lanced slightly by a medical man. Large crucial incision made through the swelling ; the vertical one measuring 5 or 6 inches. Recovered without any complication, and was discharged after 63 days. No sugar in his urine. Had bad health previous to this complaint. (b) A Hindu male, set. 48. Commenced about a fortnight ago with fever ; occupied almost the whole of the dorsal region. Freely incised under chloroform by( 33 ) the crucial method ; this was followed by free bleed- ing which had to be stopped by the application of Tr. Ferri. Discharged cured after 44 days. There was loss of skin from sloughing. Skin grafts took very well, and hastened the cure. Both these cases made a rapid and satisfactory recovery under free incision. The morbid process was at once stayed and the constitutional symptoms improved from the moment that the tension, which was great, was relieved. X. 1. For cicatrix after burn.—Hindu male, at. 16. Bight hand and forearm burnt severely 12 years ago ; thumb bound to forearm by very tight cicatricial band which was divided transversely. Wound stitched longi- tudinally. Becovered, with a hand greatly improved in appearance and usefulness. 2. For cicatrix after operation for scrotal tumour.— Hindu male, set. 30 years. About a year ago was operated on for scrotal tumour in this hospital. Was discharged with a small ulcer at the junction of the penis with the scrotum This cicatrising caused adhesion of the scrotum with almost the whole length of the penis. The cicatrix was divided under chloroform and under antiseptic precautions. The lips of the wound were stitch- ed up from side to side. It healed without any forma- tion of pus, and the patient was discharged after 28 days perfectly satisfied with the result of the operation. 3. For Harelip.—European boy, set. 5 years ; single harelip left side. The edges of the cleft were pared and brought together by a harelip pin. Discharged after 10 days with partial obliteration of the cleft. He was operated on again with better success. (Dr. Palmer;. 4. Phimosis. (a.) East Indian, set. 18. There was a history of gonorrhoea a month ago and chancre two weeks after- wards. On admission a suppurating bubo was detected( 34 ) in the left groin. The prepuce was thickened and phimosed and covered with warty growths. There was also purulent discharge from the urethra. He was circumcised under chloroform ; no stitches put in. The bubo was opened and dressed with cotton and oil. He was discharged cured after 77 days, (b.) Native Christian, set. 12 ; came in with congeni- tal phimosis ; circumcised in the usual way. The prepuce was grasped between the blades of forceps opposite to corona glandis. The glans pushed up and the prepuce divided with curved bistoury in front of the forceps. The line of incision directed from above downwards and slightly forwards. The mucous membrane was glit up and reflected, and then stitched with the surrounding skin with horsehair at three points. Dressed with boracic gauze. Eesult very satisfactory. Left hospital in 15 days. XI. 1. Hydrocele tapped and injected.—These two cases presented the usual features and result. 5. Hypospadias.—Hindu, get. 21. Traumatic stricture, impermeable, near point of penis ; fistula behind on lower aspect of penis. Plastic operation performed ; failed. Patient would not retain tube, and urine got between lips of wound and caused its separation. "Would not submit to second operation. 2. Nerve-stretching. 1. Hindu male, set. 45 ; tingling of left hand and arm six months before admission succeeded by anaesthesia of ring and little fingers and ulnar side of hand and fore- arm ; wasting of muscles and bullae. Ulnar nerve much thickened ; stretched above elbow. Sensation restored aud muscular power improved. Discharged in 23 days. 2. I. B., set. 40, Station master. Foot crushed by a trolly some time ago; numbness, tingling in 3 outer toes, and muscular weakness of whole foot. Ext. popliteal nerve stretched. Left in 16 days much relieved.( 35 ) 3. Hindu male, set. 30. Right thumb smashed ; slough- ed off ; tetanus supervened on 13th day. Median nerve stretched on 18th day. No benefit. Died on 24th day after injury, 9 days after tetanus, and 6 days after nerve stretching. General Remarks. The death rate of the cases included in the foregoing table, &c., amounts to 18'5 per cent. This rate is com- parable only with a table constructed on the same princi- ples and including the same description of cases. It might be raised slightly by adding two or three cases which were removed from the hospital in a precarious condition, or lowered a little by removing cases where the fatal event did not result from the operation per- formed, such as the fatal cases of tracheotomy, the case of nerve-stretching for tetanus, &c. A general death rate in surgical operations is an extremely loose and uncer- tain figure. The rate now given will be useful for comparison with future rates calculated on the same principles and by the same method. The figures relating to particular operations together with the descriptions are of more value for purposes of general comparison, and this value will increase as the induction is widened from year to year. It will be observed that several of the fatal events were due to erysipelas and septic disease. 10 cases of erysipelas occurred in these wards during the year, and four of these proved fatal. Not one of the cases treated under the strict antiseptic system contracted the disease, though they occupied the same wards at the time the disease was prevailing. Five of the cases occurred in patients from whom scrotal and labial tumours had been removed. These patients remain for weeks under treat- ment with granulating wounds which from their situation cannot be kept quite pure. Efforts were made to segre- gate and isolate the affected patients as much as possible.Calcutta: Printed by P. S. D’Rozario and Co. 12, Waterloo Street. t iPRECIS OF OPERATIONS PERFORMED IN THE WARDS OF THE FIRST SURGEON, MEDICAL COLLEGE HOSPITAL, DURING THE YEAR 1880. By Surgeon-Major K. McLeod, A.M., M.D., F.R.C.S.E., Professor of Surgery, Calcutta Medical College. In preparing the following paper I have closely fol- lowed the plan pursued in detailing the results of opera- tive surgery in the Second Sui'geon’s wards in 1879 (Vide “ Indian Medical Gazette,” No. XV., pages 92 & 123). The hygienic circumstances of the two series of wards correspond very closely, and in no appreciable respect does the one differ from the other ; nor is there any difference between the class of patients treated in the two ; patients requiring in-door treatment being admit- ted into each on alternate days and on alternate Sundays. The number of available beds in each is 60, of which 19 are allotted to Christian males (Europeans, Eurasians, Native Christians and others consuming miscellaneous food), 29 to native males (Mahomedans and Hindus indifferently), 8 to native females and 4 to Christian females. The materials from which this paper has been prepared were collected and put into shape by my assistant, GopalChunderChatterjee, M.B., to whom I am deeply indebted for the unwearied industry and great intelligence with which he has aided me in the operating theatre and wards, and in recording and compiling notes of cases. To him is largely due any success which has been obtained during the year in carrying out the anti-( 2 ) septic system, whose principles and methods he thoroughly understood and conscientiously practised. The following return includes all cases in which opera- tions were performed during the year, tabulated accord- ing to the system adopted in the previous paper :— '■+-* O Description of Operations. I.—Operations on arteries. 1. Ligature of femoral for aneurism ... II.—Operations on joints. 1. Reduction of dislocation of shoulder joint 2. Extension of stiff joints, j ^e°JV 3. Incision of knee-joint 4. Excision of elbow-joint „ hip-joint Total III.—Operations on bones. 1. Partial excision for necrosis («.) frontal bone \b.) lower jaw (c.) humerus (d.) ulna (e.) tibia (/.) tarsus Total Number operatioi Died. 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 1 1 1 6 2 1 0 1 0 1 0 2 0 2 0 3 0 10 0( 3 ) Description op Operations. Number of operations. 1 Died. IV.—Amputations. A. For Injury. 1. Primary, of the shoulder joint 1 0 2. „ of the arm 1 0 3. „ of the forearm 1 0 4. ,, of the ring and middle fingers 1 0 5. „ of the leg 1 0 6. Secondary, of the arm, for gangrene 1 0 7. „ of the thigh, ditto ... 1 0 B. For Disease. 8. For sarcoma of arm—of the shoulder joint 1 0 9. For sarcoma of forearm—of the arm 1 0 10. For caries of tibia and tarsus—of the thigh 1 0 11. For disorganization of knee-joint—of the thigh 1 0 12. For aneurism—of the thigh 1 0 13. For caries of tarsus,—of the ankle (Syme) 1 0 Total ... 13 0 V.—Removal of tumours (By excision.) A. Malignant. 1. Scirrhus of mamma and axillary glands 2 0 2a. Epithelioma (a.) of cheek 2 1 „ (b.) scalp 1 0 „ (c.) penis 1 0 3. Sarcoma of back ... 2 0 B. Non-malignant. 4. Fibroma (a.) of back... 1 0 „ (b.) of mamma ... 1 0 5. Exostosis of femur 1 0 6. Osteoma of lower jaw 1 1 7. Osteo-cystoma of lower jaw 2 0( 4 ; Description of Operations. JN umber or operations. Died. • 8. Cartilaginous tumour of nose 1 0 ,, of sub-maxillary gland... 1 0 9. Dermoid cyst of cheek ... 1 0 Sebaceous cyst of scalp 1 0 10. Elephantiasis (a.) of prepuce ... 2 0 (b.) of scrotum 26 4 (c.) of labia ... 1 0 11. External and internal piles 6 0 12. Condyloma (a.) of anus 1 0 „ (b.) of labium ... 1 0 13. Axillary hsematoma 1 0 14. Bronchocele 1 0 Total ... 57 6 V.—Removal of calculi. 1. Vesical, by lateral lithotomy 8 2 VI.—Incisions. 1. Tracheotomy 2. For strangulated hernia 2 2 (a.) with opening sac 3. For radical cure of hernia (Wood’s 3 1 operation) 11 1 4. For atresia oris 2 0 5. For fistula in ano 2 0 6. For anal fissure ... 2 0 7. Perinteal section 4 0 8. For large abscesses 22 4 9. For hydrocele 4 0 10. For htematocele ... •. 3 0 Total ... 55 8( 5 ) Description of Operations. Number 01 operations. 1 Died. VII.—Reparative operations. 1. For cicatrix after operation for scrotal tumour 2 0 2. For urinary fistula 1 0 3. For Epispadias 1 0 4. For talipes varus 4 0 5. For phimosis—circumcision 5 0 Total ... 13 0 VIII.—Operations not classed. 1. Hydrocele tapped and injected 1 0 2. Nerve splitting 3 0 3. Nerve stretching 1 0 Total ... 5 0 Grand total ... 168 18 I shall now record a brief detail of each of the cases included in the foregoing return, pursuing the order jn which they have been tabulated, and offering such comments on individual cases or groups of cases as may appear desirable. I. 1.—Ligature of the femoral artery for popliteal aneurism.—A Hindu male, jet. 25, with a history of syphilis, was admitted on 14th May with a pulsating swelling in left popliteal space, of 2 months’ duration. The tumour was large, soft and fluctuating ; pulsation stopped on pressing femoral artery ; distinct bruit audible ; knee semi-flexed ; ankle oedematous ; general health fair. The femoral was ligatured with catgut on the 17th May( 6 ) at the apex of Scarpa’s triangle ; operation performed antiseptioally ; pulsation ceased instantly and did not recur ; wound healed by first intention, and was complete- ly cicatrized on 28th May. Tension of tumour subsided, but no consolidation of contents took place. A blister formed on the most prominent part of its surface. This was succeeded by a small sphacelus which was being removed by cicatrization beneath, when on 9th July oozing of blood was detected. This became freer ; the aneurismal sac was laid open and an attempt was made to secure the vessel above and below, but welling still taking place, amputation was performed. The result of this operation is given below. The sac was found on dissection to be principally composed of the surrounding tissues, and to contain a small quantity of firm clot and a large quantity of fluid blood undergoing disorganiza- tion. The cavity was perfectly sweet, though it had been practically in contact with dead material for weeks. The slough included the wall of the aneurism at a minute point when the escape of blood had taken place. It was perfectly aseptic. The operation was successful as far as permanent occlusion of the artery was con- cerned, but this measure failed to procure consolidation of the aneurism which was very large and practically diffuse. II. 1. Reduction of dislocation of shoulder joint.— Hindu male, set. 43 ; one month’s duration ; caused by a fall. Reduced by traction under chloroform by means of pulleys; slight synovitis followed which subsided, and the resulting stiffness was remedied by passive move- ments. 2. (a.) Extension of stiff elbow.—Hindu male, set. 20 ; elbow stiff, bent at an angle of 30. Forcibly extended under chloroform, followed by frequent passive move- ment. Left hospital in 33 days greatly improved. (&.) Extension of stiff lenee.—Eurasian male, ret. 14. Bent knee consequent on a recent wound in popliteal( 7 ) space. Extended gradually by MacIntyre’s splint. Left hospital in 9 days with a straight and flexible joint. 3. Incision of knee-joint.—Eurasian female, ret. 43. Elephantiasis of both legs. Numerous abscesses of right leg ; knee-joint inflamed and became filled with pus. It was laid open aiitiseptically and drainage tubes inserted ; these were gradually shortened and the sinus finally closed, leaving a straight and stiff joint. The abscesses of the leg were also treated successfully, and the swelling went down considerably in consequence of the sup- puration. 4. (a). Resection of elbow joint.—Hindu male, aet. 49. Admitted for stricture of urethra and fistula in ano. His general health was bad. A large abscess suddenly formed above right elbow, stripping the humerus exten- sively and involving the joint, which became disorganized. Resection was performed on 23rd January ; about 3£ inches of humerus had to be removed. The wound putrefied; patient suffered from diarrhoea; but rallied and was progressing favourably when acute peritonitis set in and killed him in three days. He survived the operation 28 days. The humerus was found stripped to the extent of an inch and its medulla inflamed. (b.) Resection of hip-joint.—A Hindu child, aet. 2 years, admitted 11th August 1879 ; sustained a fall two months before admission. A fluctuating swelling existed, and was opened ; two other openings had sub- sequently to be made to evacuate matter. The joint was found to be disorganized and femur dislocated on dorsum. The acetabulum was perforated and an abscess formed in the right iliac fossa ; fever of a hectic type existed. After a long period of treatment by drainage, feed- ing, cod-liver oil, Iodide of Iron, &c., excision of the joint was performed, on 14th July 1880; a transverse incision was made behind the joint, the periosteum was detached and the head of the femur was removed( 8 ) through the trochanter major. The acetabulum was scraped by an osteotrite. For several weeks progress was favourable, the wound was almost closed, and the general health improved, when fever and diarrhoea set in ; the granulation material broke down, the end of the bone was again exposed. Discharge became profuse, symptoms of tubercle appeared in the apex of the left lung, and the patient finally died of exhaustion on the 12th of August—69 days after the operation. III. 1. Partial excisions for necrosis. (a.) Frontal bone.—Hebrew male, set. 30. Syphilitic necrosis of frontal bone. Sinus slit open and sequestrum removed. Wound cicatrized soundly after nearly 8 months’ treatment. (b.) Lower jaw.—Hindu male, mt. 20. Sinus of right cheek leading to necrosed alveolar process holding two loose dead teeth ; necrosed teeth and bone removed and edges of sinus brought together. A severe attack of facial erysipelas followed. The wound became sloughy and gaped. Recovery took place, and he eventually left hospital with a sound jaw and contracted sinus. (c.) Humerus.—Hindu male, ast. 35. History of syphilis ; admitted with sinus of left shoulder leading to dead bone. Sequestrum, which consisted of the greater part of the head of the humerus, was removed and patient left hospital in two and a half months with a depressed cicatrix and somewhat impaired movements of the shoulder joint. (d.) Ulna.—i. Hindu male, ^t. 32. Death of a large portion of the right ulna consequent on compound frac- ture. Sequestrum 4 inches long removed. Discharged in 37 days with wound soundly healed but rather impair- ed movements of the hand. ii. Native Christian female, eet. 36. History of abscess two months before admission. Sinus laid open ; several( 9 ) dead bits of left ulna removed ; wound healed up in 54 days. (e.) Tibia.—i. Mahomedan male, sot. 20 ; two and a half years’ duration, consequent on abscess. Sequestrum was removed from lower end of right tibia and wound healed soundly in 87 days. Ankle joint a little stiff. ii. Hindu male, set. 22. Caused by abscess thirteen mouths ago. Sequestrum removed from lower end of left tibia ; wound cicatrized in 139 days. (f.) Tarsus.—i. Armenian female, set. 40 ; one and a half year’s duration. Idiopathic inflammation resulting in abscess. Several sinuses of left foot leading to bare bone ; carious bones (scaphoid, internal cuneiform and base of 1st metatarsal) removed. Cavity filled up very slowly. Left hospital eventually in 7^ months with a soundly cicatrized wound and able to walk. ii. Male Hindu, aet. 38 ; disease of 18 months’ duration j contusion followed by abscess. Four sinuses of right foot leading to bare bone. Incisions made along inner and outer borders of foot; periosteum detached ; scaphoid, cuboid, three cuneiforms and bases of metatarsal bones removed (P. H. Watson’s operation.) The wound filled up but a sinus remained, and bare bone being still detected amputation at the ankle joint was performed 3| months after resection. Hi. Hindu male, set. 35. Disease of 6 months’ dura- tion, caused by injury. Internal cuneiform and tarsal end of 1st metatarsal bone removed. Healed up soundly in 55 days. All these operations were performed bloodlessly, sub- periosteally and antiseptically. The cloacse were enlarged by chisel, and the cavities and sinuses thoroughly scraped out with scoop and osteotrite. A strong solution of Chloride of zinc (40 grs. to J i) was applied ; a layer of boracic gauze invaginated into the wound and stuffed with carbolic gauze. A large dressing of the latter( 10 ) included all. The cavity under this treatment fills up kindly with granulation material which organizes and cicatrizes. The process is necessarily protracted. Partial resections of the tarsus are not favourably viewed by some authorities. In two cases perfect repair resulted ; in the third caries re-appeared in the remaining bones. In no case, though the surrounding bone was freely divided and scraped, did any symptom of osteo-myelitis appear. TV. Amputations for injury. 1. Primary amputation of the shoulder joint.—Male Mahomedan, aff. 13. Sustained a severe laceration of right arm in the machinery of a jute mill a few hours before admission. An Esmarch’s cord was wound tightly round the shoulder and kept in position by tapes fastened on the opposite side. The remains of the arm were taken off at the shoulder joint. Anterior and posterior flaps were cut; the latter larger. Little or no blood was lost, and strict antiseptic precautions were employed. Suppuration took place and partial sloughing of posterior flap from bruising. A good stump eventually resulted. The wound healed partly by first intention and partly by granulation. There was no constitutional disturb- ance beyond the shock and reactive fever. Patient left hospital 90 days after the operation. 2. Primary amputation of the arm.—Hindu male, set. 28 ; machine accident. Sustained also lacerated wound of right leg. Arm removed before admission a few inches below shoulder joint. Flaps a good deal bruised and torn; sloughed partially, exposing of bone ; wound healed by granulation. No necrosis. Left hospital with a sound stump in 74 days. Amputation wound became septic for a time. Wound of leg remained aseptic and healed kindly and rapidly. 3. Primary amputation of the forearm.—Mahomedan male, set. 14. Bitten by a horse 5 hours before admission.( 11 ) Eight forearm completely crushed. Amputation perform- ed at junction of upper and middle thirds bloodlessly and antiseptically. Catgut threads used for drainage secured by catgut loops to deepest part of wound. Stitches removed and wound healed soundly in 10 days. No constitutional disturbance of any kind, nor local inflam- mation or suppuration. Left hospital 26 days after operation. 4. Primary amputation of ring and middle fingers.— Hindu male, mt. 18. Machine accident ; wound sloughy and putrid. Ring and middle fingers removed at metacarpo-phalangeal joints. Healed by granulation. Putrefaction extirpated ; left hospital in 30 days. 5. Primary amputation of the leg.—Mahomedan male, set. 34. Right leg crushed by fall of a bale of jute. Amputated at seat of election by modified circular plan. Wound putrefied ; flaps sloughed ; some secondary he- morrhage occurred ; suffered from severe constitutional disturbance ; sloughs separated ; remains of posterior flap dragged over end of bone. Satisfactory stump resulted in three months. 6. Secondary amputation of arm (for gangrene).— Hindu male, set. 12. Fell from a mango tree 11 days be- fore admission, and broke right forearm, which mortified. Line of demarcation had formed. Amputated at junction of middle and lower thirds by modified circular method, bloodlessly and antiseptically. Catgut drain used ; wound healed up in 6 days and stump became round and solid in 3 weeks ; no constitutional or local disturbance. Dis- charged 20 days after operation. 7. Secondary amputation of the thigh (for gangrene.) — Hindu male, mt. 22. Fell off a palm tree some days before admission and broke his left leg. Gangrene set in. There was a line of demarcation below the knee on ad- mission. Putrid suppuration occurred in the knee-joint and constitutional disturbance was severe. Carden’s ampu-( 12 ) tation was performed and the supra-patellar pouch, which had become greatly distended,was thoroughly scraped and Washed out with a solution of Chloride of zinc (40 grs. to an ounce). Notwithstanding strict antiseptic treatment the wound putrefied, suppurated and sloughed to a slight extent. It was nearly healed in 6 weeks when secondary haemorrhage from the popliteal artery occurred, for which the femoral artery was tied with catgut below Hunter’s canal. This wound healed readily under antiseptic treat- ment. There was no return of bleeding, and patient left hospital with a sound stump 72 days after operation. Amputations for disease. 8. Amputation at shoulder joint for Sarcoma af arm.— Hindu male, aet. 19 ; 8 months’ duration, 16 inches in circumference. Amputation through shoulder joint by external and internal oval flaps. Esmarch’s cord used as in No. 1. Operation performed under strict antiseptic precautions. No secondary fever ; wound remained sweet and healed for most part by first intention. Dis- charged 32 days after operation. 9. Amputation of the arm for Sarcoma of forearm.— Hindu female, aged 2J years. Disease of 11 months’ duration; whole of the right forearm from elbow to wrist involved. Amputation by modified circular plan at lower third of arm bloodlessly and antiseptically ; catgut drain used. Treated as an out-door patient. Dressed on 2nd, 4th, 7th, 10th and 14th day ; wound remained sweet and united throughout by first intention. Very little constitutional disturbance. 10. Amputation of thigh for caries of tibia and tarsus. -—Hindu male, tet. 46. Had suffered for years from disease of bones of right leg and foot, causing profuse discharge and great prostration. Leg atrophied ; general health very low. Carden’s amputation performed blood- lessly and antiseptically. Caoutchouc tubes used for( i3 ; drainage. Constitutional disturbance after operation mild ; wound healed soundly in 24 days ; general health improved greatly. Discharged 79 days after operation. 11. Amputation of thigh for disorganization of the knee-joint.—Hindu male, jet. 38. Disease of 8 years’ dura- tion. Joint semi-flexed, grated on movement. Abcesses formed external to it. Suffered from fever of a low type (hectic); knee-joint filled with putrid pus. Amputation performed at middle of thigh by lateral flaps (to avoid putrid abscesses and sinuses) bloodlessly and antisepti- cally; inner flap larger. Caoutchouc tubes used for drainage; wound remained sweet, and healed mostly by first intention : considerable shock and reactive fever: general health improved rapidly. Patient left hospital 77 days after operation with a sound stump and in good health and condition. 12. Amputation of thigh for open aneurism.—Male Hindu, set. 25 ; circumstances necessitating amputation explained above (1.1.) Amputation at lower third of thigh by antero-posterior flaps cut from without and circular division of muscles ; wound putrefied ; small exfoliations came off end of femur. Left hospital 146 days after the amputation with a sound stump. 13. Syme's amputation at the ankle for caries of tarsus. Hindu male, jet. 38. Resection of the tarsus had been per- formed (Vide III. 1. /. ii,), the amputation was done on 20th May. Suppuration took place in the stump cavity leading to sinuses which required repeated incision, and healed very slowly. The stump is now (18th March, 1881) quite sound, and patient is about to leave hospital. The stump is movable and very callous. Cases 3, 6, 8, 9, are good examples of what may be obtained by strict antiseptic treatment, namely, rapid repair without constitutional disturbance or local inflammation In cases. 3, 6 and 9 the merit of catgut as a means of drainage is very satisfactorily demons-( 14 ) trated. In the remaining cases repair was delayed from various causes. In none was there any serious cause of anxiety regarding the ultimate result. In all antiseptics were used to prevent or extirpate putrefaction, and there can be little doubt that the success which was obtained— a success unprecedented in the Medical College Hospital —was largely if not mainly due to the careful employ- ment of antiseptic precautions and appliances. Removal of Tumours. V. A. 1. Scirrhus oj mamma and axillary glands.—(a.) East Indian female, ret. 40 ; fifteen months' duration. Left mamma removed antiseptically ; lymphatic glands thoroughly removed from axilla. Part of lower flap sloughed. Portion of wound healed by first intention, remainder by granulation. Discharged with sound cicatrix in 76 days. (b ) Hindu female, ret. 45 ; two and a half years’ duration. Last child 16 years old. Right mamma with skin covering it thoroughly extirpated. Axilla cleared of glands and an enlarged and indurated gland above clavicle also removed through axilla. Operation per- formed antiseptically, followed by severe shock, succeed- ed by reaction. No absorptive fever. Discharged with sound cicatrix in 50 days. [The axillary vein was temporarily ligatured in this case to prevent venous bleeding. The ligature was subsequently removed ; no harm followed.] 2. Epithelioma of cheek.—(a.) Hindu male, set. 39. Disease of 4 months’ duration. Extensive infiltration and perforation of the cheek. It became necessary to remove the left half of the lower jaw, part of the upper, the sub-maxillary gland and three cancerous cervical glands. Patient never rallied from the shock of the operation, and died next day. (6.) Hindu female, rot. 40; disease of two months’( 15 ) duration. Villous growth on inside of the right cheek ; skin covering it infiltrated. Parotid gland indurated and enlarged ; tumour excised. Haemorrhage controlled by round oesophagus forceps closed above and below the growth. Parotid entirely extirpated, its deep connections having been previously tied by strong catgut threads ; wound of cheek healed by first intention and remainder by granulation. Atresia prevented by use of Smith’s gag. Left hospital in 60 days with sound cicatrix ; very little facial paralysis, and no sign of return of disease. (b). Epithelioma of scalp.—Mahomedan male, set. 40 ; eight years’ growth. Tumour had been excised 2 years previously in the Mitford Hospital. Situated on vertex, three inches diameter. Removed antiseptically with a ring of healthy skin ; skull stripped of periosteum to the extent of a rupee. Remained sweet. Healed by granula- tion ; no constitutional disturbance. Soundly cicatrized in 72 days. (c.) Epithelioma of penis.—Hindu male, set. 29; disease of one and a half years’ duration, consequent on phimosis; skin divided circularly; corpus spongiosum left longer than corpora, cavernosa and stitched at lower angle of wound. Bleeding stopped by stitching corpora cavernosa with catgut. Result satisfactory. Left hospital in 32 days. 3. Sarcoma of hade—(a). Hindu female, set. 20; admitted 30th January. Large hemispherical tumour of one year’s growth on centre of back, caused by injury. Removed antiseptically by single incision. Left hospital with sound linear cicatrix in 46 days. (b.) Re-admitted on 18th September. Tumour re-ap- peared 1£ month ago. Three distinct masses existed in neighbourhood of former cicatrix. They were removed with a liberal margin of surrounding skin and tissue under antiseptic precautions. Wound healed by granulation. Discharged in 94 days with sound cicatrix.( 16 ) A small growth appeared in the track of one of the button stitches which attained the size of a marble. Has not been heard of since she left hospital. 4. (a.) Fibroma of bach.—Hindu male, set. 45 ; of 25 years’ duration ; size of a cocoanut situated over lumbar spine. Rapid growth within three years ; acutely painful latterly. Removed antiseptically by single incision ; deep attachments ligatured by catgut before division. Healed by first intention without suppuration : no secondary fever. Discharged in 27 days, (b.) Fibroma of mamma.—Hindu female, set. 20. Pendulous tumour of right breast ; extensive sloughing of skin had taken place on anterior asppct. No disease of axillary glands. Removed by elliptical incision. Wound healed by granulation. Discharged with sound cicatrix in 55 days. Tumour found to be a fibroma. 5. Exostosis of femur.—Hindu male, set. 25. Growth situated on inner side of lower end of left femur ; of 15 years’ duration ; originally started by a blow from a hammer ; about the size of a large orange and peduncu- lated. Removed antiseptically by chisel and hammer. An abscess formed beneath the extensor muscles which had to be opened. Both wound and abscess remained aseptic. Discharged well in 41 days. 6. Osteoma of lower jaw.—Hindu male, set 40. Growth of 11 years’ duration ; involved left half of lower jaw ; as large as a fist ; jaw divided at symphysis and across upper part of ramus. Sub-maxillary gland which was infiltrated also removed. Skin divided over lower mar- gin of jaw; lower lip left intaot. Wound inflamed. Septic fever and secondary hsemorrhage occurred in third week. Suppurative periostitis of right half of lower jaw ; parotitis and pleurisy supervened and death took place from pyroraia 21 days after the operation, 7. Osteo-cystoma of lower jaw.—(a.) Hindu female, ret. 25. Tumour of right side of lower jaw, of two( 17 ) years’ duration; jaw divided at symphysis and below coronoid process ; mucous membrane stitched with catgut and edges of skin wound brought together by iron wire and horsehair stitches. Drained by caoutchouc tube. Wound healed by first intention ; very slight consti- tutional disturbance, Left hospital 20 days after operation. (b.) Hindu male, set. 32. Tumour of two years’ duration ; as large as a foetal head ; situated on left side. Jaw removed from symphysis to coronoid process ; mucous membrane stitched with catgut ; drainage tube introduced. Healed partly by first intention ; wound inflamed and diffuse cellulitis occurred in its neighbourhood. Patient became insane and remained so for about a week. Left hospital in good health, mental and bodily, in 42 days with the wound soundly repaired. 8. (a.) Enchondroma of nose.—Hindu male, set. 32 ; eight months’ duration; size of a large potato. Excised by straight incision, found to spring from cartilage of septum, which was divided ; wound gaped at lower part and secondary operation became necessary. Left hospital in 43 days with a somewhat flattened nose. (b.) Cartilaginous tumour of left sub-maxillary gland. —Hindu male, set. 40. Swelling noticed three months ago. Sub-maxillary gland removed, its deep attach- ments being tied before division with catgut. Dissection deep and difficult. Wound healed by first intention. Left hospital in 29 days. 10. (a.) Dermoid cyst of cheelc.—Eurasian male, fet. 20 ; growth of 3 years’ duration ; size of pigeon’s egg. Enucleated antiseptically ; catgut drain used. Healed by first intention. Discharged in 11 days. (b.) Sebaceous cyst of scalp.—Hindu male, ret. 19. Congenital, situated over anterior fontanel; size of an orange. Opened antiseptically ; emptied. Lining wall( 18 ) scraped and drainage tube inserted. Collapsed and healed. Discharged in 32 days with some induration remaining in site of tumour. 10. {a).—Elephantiasis of prepuce. i. Hindu male, set. 32. Phimosis from childhood, paraphimosis for 5 months, causing elephantoid swelling of the prepuce beyond the constriction. This was re- moved ; the wound healed by granulation, and patient was discharged in 24 days. ii. Hindu male, set. 20. Hard chancre two months ago; partial cix-cumcision 1J month ago. Portion of prepuce left behind had undergone great elephantoid thickening. It was excised, and patient was discharged in 32 days with a sound soft cicatrix above the corona glandis. (5).—Elephantiasis of scrotum. i. Hindu, ret. 48 ; 12 years’ growth; enormous tumour; general health fair ; addicted to drink. Excised bloodlessly ; 85 vessels tied ; very little shock ; secon- dary haemorrhage 9th, 10th and 11th days. Diarrhoea, vomiting and exhaustion. Died 15 days after operation ; tumour weighed 961bs. ii. Hindu, set. 28 ; 4 jrears’ duration. Excised blood- lessly ; hydrocele on both sides ; 35 vessels tied. Wound suppurated, suffered a good deal from fever. Discharged in 82 days. Weight 12oz. Hi. Hindu, set. 55 ; 25 years’ duration. Hydrocele of left testicle. Removed bloodlessly, 36 vessels tied. Wound putrefied : fever for 10 days ; left hospital in 76 days. Weight 81bs. 8oz. iv. Hindu, set. 36 ; 4 years’ duration. Small hydro- cele on both sides. Excised bloodlessly ; 35 ligatures used ; wound putrefied. Suffered from hiccup for two days. Had a good deal of fever. Discharged in 80 days. Weight lib. 5oz.( 19 ) v. Eurasian, set. 32 ; 4 years’ duration. Has also elephantiasis of right leg. General health good. Removed in the usual way. Hydrocele of both testes. The operation was followed by severe sloughing cellulitis of the abdominal wall and gluteal region, accompanied by fever of a low type. Free incisions were requried. Re- covery eventually took. Left hospital in good health with wound soundly cicatrized in 108 days. vi. Hindu, set. 40 ; 17 years’ duration ; general health good. Removed in the usual way ; tunica adherent. 40 ligatures used. Progress satisfactory. Discharged in 38 days. Weighed 41bs. vii. Hindu, set. 40 ; 5 years’ duration ; history of injury; no venereal disease ; health good. Removed in the usual way. Double hydrocele ; testes stitched with catgut to each other and to edge of wound. Dressed antiseptically. Putrefied, became aseptic in 4 weeks. Discharged in 65 days. Weighed 3lbs. 2oz. viii. Mahomedan, set. 45 ; 9 years’ duration ; spleen and liver enlarged and right leg elephantoid. Removed in the usual way. A little fluid in both tunicas ; testes stitched as in No. vii. Dressed antiseptically under the spray ; wound putrefied and suppurated ; secondary hemorrhage. Sinus formed behind and between testes ; suffered much from fever ; wound eventually became sweet and cicatrized. Discharged in 85 days. Weighed 31bs. 4oz. ix. Mahomedan, set. 32 ; 5 years’ duration ; fever and enlarged spleen. Removed and dressed as in Case viii. Remained aseptic ; no suppuration ; dressings changed daily foi a foitnight, then less frequently. Discharged in 67 days., Weighed lib. 3oz. x. Hindu, rot. 50 ; 8 years’ duration. History of gonorihcea and syphilis ; health good. Removed under spray as in Case viii. Fluid in left tunica ; right adherent; skin freed laterally and brought over testes. No putre-( 20 ) faction, inflammation or fever. Discharged in 62 davs Weighed 21bs. 2oz. 7 xi. Hindu, rot. 35; 2 years’ duration. History of hydrocele, phimosis and chancre. Operation as in Case x. Secondary haemorrhage on second day. Wound putre- fied. Secondary fever. Discharged in 70 days. Weighed lib. 6oz. xii. Hindu, rot. 25 ; 4 years’ duration. History of hy- drocele, fever and chancre. Operation as in Case x. • hydrocele of right testicle. Wound remained sweet and healed kindly without suppuration. Discharged in 73 days. Weight 21bs. 6oz. xiiit Hindu, rot. 30; 8 years’ duration. History of hydrocele and sloughing of left scrotum ; hydrocele of right side. Removed under strict antiseptic precautions ; flaps cut from thighs ; testes stitched to each other and to surface of perinroal wound : flaps brought together over them. Remained sweet; very little fever. Discharged in 70 days. Weighed 61bs. 2|oz. xiv. Hindu, rot. 25; 5 months’ duration. Operation as in Case xiii. Wound remained aseptic. Discharged in 74 days. Weighed 7oz. xv. Hindu, rot. 35; 13 years’ duration. History of hydrocele. Operation as in Case xiii. Double hydrocele. No putrefaction, inflammation, suppuration or fever. Discharged in 63 days. Weighed 91bs. 12oz. xvi. Hindu, rot. 20 ; 5 years’ duration. Operation as in Case xiii. Putrefied on 4th day. Suffered from erysipe- las and fever. Wound subsequently became aseptic. Discharged in 65 days. Weighed 6oz. xvii. Mahomedan, rot. 32 ; 4 years’ duration. History of fever and hydrocele. Slight enlargement of spleen and liver. Operation as in Case xiii. Wound putrefied in second week, and became aseptic in about 17 days. Discharged in 72 days. Weighed lib. 9oz. Omi. Hindu, rot, 32 ; 3 years’ duration. Lymph scro-( 21 ) turn. Scrotum removed antiseptically ; testes stitched as in xiii. ; lateral flaps brought over them and stitched toge- ther with catgut ; penis healthy, not decorticated. Wound remained sweet and was healing kindly ; got lymphangitis of both arms on 7th day, and pleurisy on 13th. Died 14 days after operation of pleurisy and pericarditis. Weighed lloz. xix. Hindu, ret. 34 ; 4 years’ duration. Health good. Operation as in Case xiii. Haematocele of left tunica. Temporary putrefaction from 4th to 15th day. Flaps adhered and wound granulated satisfactorily. Discharged in 72 days. Weighed 21bs. lloz. x.r. Hindu, set. 25 ; 2 years’ duration. Health good. Operation as in Case xiii. Double hydrocele. Wound putrefied ; suffered from fever, dysentery and cutaneous erysipelas. Wound eventually healed kindly and flaps retained their vitality and formed a good covering for the testes. Discharged in 75 days. Weighed lib. lloz. xxi. Hindu, ret. 25 ; 10 months’ duration. History of gonorrhoea and chancre. Health good ; operation as in Case xiii. Secondary hemorrhage and putrefaction occurred, accompanied by high fever ; suffered also from bronchitis. Wound subsequently rendered aseptic. Dis- charged in 67 days. Weighed 6oz. xxii. Mahomedan, set. 20 ; 4 years’ duration. General health bad ; ulcer on scrotum and elephantiasis of both legs. Operation as in Case xiii. Hydrocele of right tunica. Wound putrefied on 5th day. Secondary haemor- rhage on two occasions. Wound became kseptic in a week. Suffered from fever and got sloughing dysentery which carried him off in 7 days. Wound nearly healed. Died 32 days after operation. Weighed 41bs. 4ozs. xxiii. Hindu, set. 40; 5 years’ duration. General health good ; very fat. Operation as in Case xiii. Rallied badly. Secondary haemorrhage within 24 hours, succeed- ed by obstinate vomiting; flaps inflamed on 3rd day,( 22 ) and were covered with bullae. Got high fever and died of exhaustion 3 days after operation. Weighed 51bs, lloz. xxiv. Hindu, set. 25 ; 8 years’ duration. Health good. Operation as in Case xiii, Double hydrocele. Discharged in 73 days. Weighed 41bs. l4oz. xxv. Hindu, aet. 40 ; 8 years’ duration. History of syphilis. Oblique reducible inguinal hernia on right side. Operation as in Case xiii. Wood’s operation per- formed after removal of tumour; wire removed in 10 days. Large hydrocele on left side. Wound granu- lated and cicatrized slowly. Hernia recurred. Discharged in 89 days with a truss. Weighed lib. 15oz. xxvi. European, set. 48 ; 4 years’ duration. History of gonorrhoea and phimosis. General health good ; addicted to drink. Removed bloodlessly but not antiseptically. Hydrocele of left tunica. Wound putrefied and sup- purated. Discharged in 120 days. Weighed lib. 3oz. The treatment pursued in these cases varied some- what. Cases i.—vi. and xxvi. were operated on and dressed in the manner described in last year’s precis. The tumour was removed without antiseptic precau- tions, and no effort was made to attach the testes to each other or to the surface of the perinseal wound, nor to cover them with skin. The dressing consisted of Boracic gauze next the wound, lint steeped in Carblic oil (1 in 10) over it, and a layer of cotton wool secured by a suspensory bandage outside. Excluding Case i., which was a gigantic tumour, and which proved fatal 14 days after operation from secon- dary haemorrhage and gastro-enteric irritation, the ave- rage weight of the tumours was 21bs. 9oz., and the average period of detention in hospital 84 days. In all the cases secondary fever was severe, and in one an attack of sloughing cellulitis of great intensity occurred. In these cases the lateral lips of the wound were kept( 23 ) apart to prevent their inversion and give room for the testes by means of stitches attached to tapes passed round the thighs, as recommended by Professor Partridge. In the second series including cases vii.—ix. the testes were stitched to each other and to the margins of the wound by catgut. The parts were washed with Carbo- lic lotion and the wound covered with Boracic gauze, outside of which layers of Carbolic gauze were placed instead of lint. The average weight of the tumours in these cases was 21bs. 8oz., and the average period of detention in hospital 72 days. Only one of these cases remained aseptic, but they all recovered satisfactorily. In the third series x.—xii. the operation was per- formed under strict antiseptic precautions, the parts being washed with a 1 in 20 Carbolic lotion, the Carbolic spray used throughout the operation, the testes secured as in the last series, and similar dressings applied. The average weight was lib. 15oz., and average period of detention 68 days. Two remained sweet throughout. In the third case there was secondary haemorrhage, and the wound putrefied. In the cases which remained aseptic there was an entire absence of suppuration and secondary fever. In the fourth series, in addition to the steps detailed above, rectangular flaps were cut from the side of the thighs and transplanted to cover the testes, the edges being brought together as close- ly as possible by a continuous catgut suture; this series includes cases xiii—xxv. The average weight was 21bs. 15oz., and the average period of detention 72 days. Three of these cases died—one of pleurisy and pericar- ditis 14 days after the operation, which supervened upon lymphangitis of both arms, and adenitis in both axillm. A similar sequence is mentioned in Billroth’s Surgical Pathology, 4th Ed., page 351. The wound, which remained aseptic, was in process of satisfactory repair. The second death occurred in consequence of sloughing dysentery,( 24 ) which supervened 25 days after operation, when the wound was nearly healed, and ended fatally in 7 days. The third death was caused by sloughing cellulitis which originated in the cords, and rapidly affected the flaps and neighbourhood of the wound ; death occurred in 3 days. Of the ten remaining cases one-half remained aseptic, and the other half underwent temporary putrefaction. This fact attests the great difficulty which is experienced in keeping these large wounds, which are situated close to sources of putrefaction, free from septic contamination. In these five, however, the aseptic condition was re- stored by the diligent use of iodine and boraeic acid. The five aseptic cases undoubtedly underwent repair more comfortably and rapidly than the others, and constitu- tional disburbance was slight or wanting. In one of them the complication of right oblique inguinal hernia existed. This was treated at the time of removal of the srrotal tumour by Wood's operation, which proved effective during the period of cicatrization. The hernia however descended afterwards. Of the five septic cases, one suffered from high fever and cutaneous erysipelas, another from both these complications and dysentery in addition, and a third from fever and bronchitis. On the whole the experience of the year justifies the following conclusions: — 1. That it is possible in a large proportion to carry out the antiseptic system thoroughly in these operations. 2. That when it succeeds there is a great saving of suffering in addition to the absence of stench. 3. That the stitching of the testes to each other, and to the surface of the wound, is a great improvement in the subsequent management of such cases, and 4. That the cutting of lateral flaps from the thighs facilitates materially the process of repair. The death-rate amounted to l5-4 per cent, of cases( 25 ) against 17-8 in 1879. The average weight of the tumours (excluding No 1, which was exceptional) was 21bs. lloz., and the average duration of treatment of those that recovered 75 days. All the cases were retained until cicatrization was completed, but the last part of the process is frequently protracted, and patients might be discharged a week or two earlier without risk or discom- fort. (c.) Elephantiasis of labia.—Hindu female, set. 30 ; 12 years’ duration. History of ulcers on labia and sup- purating bubos ; salivated thrice. General health indif- ferent ; spleen enlarged. Both labia enormously hyper- trophied, forming large pendulous tumours. A third existed between them corresponding to the position of the clitoris. All these removed simultaneously. Bleeding prevented by preliminary ligature of pedicle with whipcord. Dressed with Boracic ointment spread on gauze : catheter retained. Healed slowly by granulation. Result satisfactory. Discharged 96 days after operation. Weighed 71 bs lOoz. 11. Excision of piles.—(a.) Hindu female, set. 25. External piles and fissure ; former cut off and latter divided. Discharged well in 18 days. (6.) Hindu male, set. 40. Internal bleeding piles ; clamped, cut off by scissors and cauterised. Recovered in 20 days. (c.) Armenian male, set. 24. External piles and fissure ; former cut ofl; and latter divided. Left hospital well in 28 days. [d.) Eurasian male, aat. 22. Internal bleeding piles ; clamped, cut off by scissors and cauterised. Cured in 11 days. (e.) Hindu male, set. 23. Internal bleeding piles very ansemic; venous murmur in neck. Clamped, removed by scissors and cauterised. Discharged in 30 days with wounds healed and general health greatly improved.( 26 ) (f.) English male, set. 38. Internal and external piles ; former bled. Clamped, removed by scissors and cau- terised. Left hospital in 19 days. 12. —(a.) Condyloma of anus.—Hindu male, aet. 8. History of hereditary syphilis; removed by scissors. Discharged well in 25 days. (5.) Condyloma of labium.—Hindu female, act. 27 ; 10 months’ duration. Right labium majus ; both labia and part of clitoris removed by knife. Healed slowly by granulation ; result satisfactory. Left hospital in 64 days after operation. 13. Venous Iicematoma of axilla—Hindu male, aet. 45. Tumour noticed two months ago ; grew very rapidly. Left axilla filled with a large, globular, very tense tumour from which venous blood flowed on puncture. Removed antiseptically. Loop of catgut threads passed round axil- lary vessels before operation ; deep connections secured with catgut ligature before division. Found to be an immense outgrowth or aneurism of the axillary vein. "Wound healed mostly by first intention. Left hospital with sound cicatrix in 38 days.—(Vide Lancet, vol. 1 of 1881, page 133.) 14. Bronchocele.—Mahomedan male, aet. 29 ; 8 years’ duration, about the size of a child’s head. Removed antiseptically ; straight incision in middle line of neck ; base of tumour ligatured with catgut in several sections before division. Wound healed mostly by first intention. Lower part suppurated and healed by granulation. Left hospital in 62 days with a linear cicatrix. In no class of operations is the strict antiseptic system of greater advantage than in the removal of tumours, and several of the cases above detailed illustrate this in a very satisfactory manner, the two last very conspicuously.( 27 ) V. 1. Lateral lithotomy.—[a.) Mahomeden, ast. 36 ; stricture and perinseal fistula. Stricture dated by Holt’s instrument ; fistula included in incision for removal of stone. Discharged cured in 42 days. Phosphatic stone weighed 210 grains. (h.) Hindu, jet. 40. Stone crushed in first instance, but a large and very hard nucleus remaining which escaped the grasp of the lithotrite, and the bladder being full of debris he was cut, the nucleus removed and bladder washed out. Discharged well in 38 days. Phosphatic and uric stone, weighed 420 grains exclusive of debris. (c.) Hindu, set. 8. Operation was followed by pelvic cellulitis. Discharged well in 38 days. Oxalate of lime stone weighed 60 grains. (cl.) Male, jet. 40. Two stones removed ; no bleeding of consequence either primary or secondary. Died 18 days after operation of catarrhal dysentery and broncho- pneumonia ; wound had contracted and was healing. ■Weighed 133 grains, composed of oxalate of lime. (e.) Hindu, jet. 6. Recovered in 27 days. Uric calculus ; weighed 63 grains. if.) Hindu, jet. 55. Lithotrity tried in first instance. Stone encysted ; edge of cyst ran into grasp of li- thotrite ; bladder torn in withdrawal. Lateral operation performed. Peritonitis set in on second day. Died 3 days after operation ; stone phosphatic and, uric, size of a hen’s egg. (y.) Hindu, jet. 35. Recovered without a bad symp- tom in 22 days. Oxalate of lime, weighed 220 grains. (h.) Hindu, jet. 43. Made water on 6th day ; wound closed on 11th. Discharged in 20 days. Uric calculus, weighed 18 grains. In all these cases the operation was performed by lateral incision on left side. The primary incision reached the staff, and the second opened the bladder. In( 28 ) no case was the rectum injured. A tube was not used in any instance, though in (/.) it might have been inserted with advantage. The bladder was invariably washed with Carbolic lotion (1 in 40) after operation. VI. 1. Tracheotomy.—(a.) Hindu male. set. 45. La- ryngitis of 3| months’ duration; history of syphilis. Admitted with great dyspnoea, relieved by aconite, blis- ters, &c. Imminent suffocation 21 days after admission necessitated laryngo-tracheotomy. He survived the operation 29 days, and died of septicaemia and pneu- monia. The thyroid cartilage underwent necrosis and lay in a gangrenous cavity. (h.) Mahomedan male, aet. 35. Symptoms of dyspnoea of 10 da}rs’ duration very urgent on admission ; history of syphilis. Tracheotomy performed at once below the isthmus. Died of dyspnoea 4 days after operation. An aneurism of the arch of the aorta was found after death. 2. Herniotomy.—(a.) Native Christian, aet. 27. Pain- ful swelling of right inguinal region with obstructed bowels for four days before admission. Eight testicle in inguinal canal. Continued to suffer from pain and obstruction, and symptoms of strangulation supervened ; the sac was opened. It was found to be a congenital omental hernia, the obstruction being caused by doubling of the bowel and the omentum, which was almost gangre- nous, was adherent to the fundus of sac. The omentum was tied at the neck of the sac with catgut and removed ; the gut being liberated and reduced. The edges of the sac and wound were carefully stitched with catgut. The wound suppurated, gaped and healed by granula- tion. An abscess of the abdominal wall afterwards formed which was treated antiseptically with success. The operation proved a radical cure of the hernia. Patient has been repeatedly seen, and there has been( 29 ) no return of the disease, Discharged 62 days after operation. (b ) Mahomedan male, set. 35. Left oblique inguinal hernia; 30 years’ duration. Irreducible for 48 hours. Some symptoms of strangulation. Ice and taxis under chloroform having failed, herniotomy was performed, followed by Wood's operation, under antiseptic precau- tions ; pillars were brought together with double catgut thread in addition to wire. Latter removed on 11th day ; wound putrefied, suppurated and healed by granulation ; no descent of hernia during the 40 days he remained in hospital after operation. (c). Hindu male, set. 36 ; Oblique inguinal hernia of left side; of 3 months’ duration, three days down ; symptoms of strangulation almost amounting to pros- tration ; sac laid open ; intestine adherent to sac ; sloughy opening at one part. Dressed for artificial anus. Died next day with symptoms of peritonitis. 3. Wood's operation for the radical cure of hernia.— (a.) Mahomedan male, set. 35. Eight oblique inguinal, of five years’ duration ; incarcerated for 15 days before operation, reduced by pressure of elastic bandage after purgatives, ice and taxis under chloroform had failed. Wood’s operation performed under antiseptic precautions ; wire removed on 10th day ; wound suppurated. Con- siderable contraction of ring occurred, but the rupture came down after the wound had healed. Discharged with a truss in 48 days. (b.) Mahomedan male, set. 50. Right oblique inguinal hernia, of 6 months’ duration. Wood’s operation perform- ed antiseptically ; wire removed on 12th day, wound healed in a fortnight. Canal much contracted. Dis- charged with a truss in 26 days. (c.) Mahomedan male, set. 50. Oblique inguinal hernia, of one year’s duration. Wood’s operation performed an- tiseptically ; wire removed on 9th day ; wound suppurat-( 30 ) ed. No descent of hernia while in hospital. Provided with a truss. Discharged in 32 days. (d.) East Indian male, set. 37. Right oblique inguinal hernia of one year’s duration. Wood’s operation performed antiseptically; wire removed on 11th day ; wound healed in 16 days. No descent of hernia took place. Discharged with a truss in 34 days. (e.) Re-admitted next day after discharge. Hernial protrusion took place after he began to walk about. Oper- ation repeated antiseptically 6 days after admission ; wire removed in 11 days ; wound healed in there weeks. Discharged in 30 days apparently cured. [This man has recently (2nd March) been admitted a third time with slight hernial protrusion, and subjected to a third operation. The result will appear among the operations of 1881.] (/.) Mahomedan male, set. 40. Oblique inguinal hernia of right side, of one year’s duration. Had also a hernia on left side. Latter operated on on 7th July ; wire removed on 17th (10 days); healed in three weeks. Right side operated on on 20th July ; wire removed on 4th August (15 days) ; operation repeated on left side 25th August, on account of descent of hernia ; wire removed on 7th September (12 days). A double catgut ligature was placed on the pillars in addition to the wires. Healed on 25t'n September. Wound remained aseptic in all three operations ; suppurated on last occasion. Hernia descended on both sides, although canals and rings underwent contraction. Provided with a truss. Left hospital 84 days after first operation. (i.) Native Christian, mt. 30. Left oblique ingui- nal hernia, \\ year’s duration. Patient suffering from bronchitis and heart disease ; hernia constantly coming down. Operation performed antiseptically. Catgut ligature passed through pillars in addition to wire; coughed much during operation. Symptoms of strangula-( 31 ) tion and peritonitis observed next day. These in- creasing, the wound was re-opened on third day. During operation and while slightly under chloroform patient vomited and died suddenly on the table of asphyxia. A portion of the sac had remained in the scrotum and a loop of intestine had been forced into it by the constant coughing which had become strangulated. (j.) Mahomedan male, set. 70. Left oblique inguinal hernia, of 3 years’ duration ; ring very large ; con- stant descents ; operation performed antiseptically ; wire removed in 21 days. Left hospital in 44 days. No descent of hernia. (h.) American male, aet. 40. Left oblique inguinal hernia ; 7 years’ duration ; ring admitted two fingers. Operation performed antiseptically ; wound suppu- rated ; wire removed after 11 days. Wound healed in 37 days. Hernia descended two days after. Discharg- ed in 57 days wearing a truss. 13 operations for the radical cure of hernia, according to Professor Wood's plan, were performed in 1880. The result was on the whole disappointing. In only one case did putrefaction occur, and in none except the fatal case (£,) in which the circumstances were very unfavourable, did any constitutional or local disturbance of consequence arise. Only 3 of the thirteen operations succeeded in preventing subsequent descent of the hernia. The ring was contracted in all the cases, and considerable effusion took place, but in the majority, on absorption of this effusion, the hernia descended. The truss was more effective in preventing descent in these cases than it had been. In one case the operation was repeated without avail. In another case with double hernia two operations were performed on one side and one on the other : they all failed. In the majority the wires were removed in from 9 to 12 days. In one case they were retained for 15 days without effect, in another successful case for 21 days.( 32 ) The occurrence of inflammation as indicated by the formation of pus appeared to make no difference in the result. Iti two cases the pillars were brought together by a double catgut thread in addition to the wires : one of these succeeded. The operation was performed exactly according to Professor Wood’s instructions, special care being taken to include the conjoined tendon in the inner wire and drag it outwards into contact with the outer pillar. The impression left on my mind by the experience of the year is, that the operation performed under antisep- tic precautions, while very safe, is not effective, and I have since the close of the year resolved to try another method of closing the canal and rings. 4. Operation for Atresia Oris.—(a) Native Christian female, set. 19. Muuth closed by tight cicatricial band consequent on ulceration of the cheek and gum, caused by irruption of wisdom tooth. Band divided freely ; the tooth, which was growing into the cheek, extracted ; mouth kept open by occasional use of Smith’s gag. Left hospital 21 days after operation. {b.) Hindu male, set. 20. History of chancre and ptyalism; ulceration of cheek and gums, and cicatricial contraction ; could not separate teeth. Cicatricial bands divided. Mouth kept open by occasional use of gag. Left hospital in 34 days with the wound healed and able to open his mouth fully. 5. Fistula inano.—The fistula was laid open in the usual way in both cases—with good result. 6. Anal fissure.—Divided with underlying sphincter : complete recovery in each case. 7. Perinceal section.—(a.) Native Christian, set. 34. Stricture followed by perinseal abscess. Abscess opened and stricture divided by same operation ; wound healed up in a fortnight ; full-sized bougie passed occasionally. Discharged in 33 days. (b.) Mahomedan, aet. 30. History of gonorrhoea, stric- ture and perinseal abscess. No retention, but instrument( 33 ) could not be parsed through stricture. Abscess laid open freely ; instruments entered bladder a few days after. Got urethritis, ophthalmia, and synovitis of both knees ; urethra gradually dilated and full-sized bougie passed occasionally. Left hospital in 43 days with perinaeal wound closed and urethra fully dilated. (c.) Hindu male, set. 30. History of gonorrhoea and stricture, fistula following abscess existed at mons veneris, through which most of the urine passed. This was consequent on catheterism for retention a month before admission. Perinaeal section performed. Urethra fully dilated. Pubic fistula closed, and subsequently perinaeal wound. Full-sized bougie passed occasionally. Left hospital in 53 days. (d.) Hindu male, set. 32; admitted 10th October. History of syphilis, gonorrhoea, stricture, abscess and fistula. Perinaeal section performed and fistulas laid open. Subsequently two sinuses were found leading to a large abscess cavity on each side of the rectum in the ischio- rectal fossae. Another passed forward to the left towards the pubis. These were freely laid open 35 days after the first operation. The sphincter was divided on each side. He is still in hospital (31st March.) The fistu- lous tracts have all filled up and healed, with the exception of the central one, through which a little urine still escapes during micturition. The urethra admits a No. 12 catheter, and patient’s general health has greatly improved. 8. Large abscesses.—The following are notes of abscesses which, on account of their situation and depth, required for their treatment bold or difficult incisions or dissections. (a.) Iliac abscesses.—i. Hindu male, set. 17 ; 3 weeks’ duration ; commenced with fever ; situated in right iliac foBsa. Opened antiseptically below Poupart’s ligament by a vertical incision through skin and fascia lata half( 34 ) way between anterior superior spinous process of ileum and femoral artery, over the iliacus muscle. The cavity was reached by director, the track being subsequently enlarged and drainage tube inserted. Remained aseptic ; healed in 15 days. Left hospital in 44 days. ii. Hindu male, set. 18 ; one month’s duration ; caused by strain. Left side opened as in Case i. ; half a pint of pus removed. Drainage tube removed in 13 days. Left hospital in 52 days ; discharge sweet throughout. Hi. Mahomedan male, ret. 35 ; 15 days’ duration ; left side ; fluctuating swelling in upper part of left thigh also, continuous with the iliac swelling. Opened antiseptically at the same point as in Case i. Tubes inserted upwards and downwards. Drainage tubes withdrawn finally in 29 days. Left hospital in 44 days. Two pints of pus removed. Remained aseptic throughout. iv. Hindu female, ret. 6 ; two weeks’ duration. History of fall and subsequent fever. Left side. Operation performed as in Case i. Tubes removed in 11 days. Dis- charged in 14 days. (b.) Abscess of abdominal loall.—i. Hindu male, ret. 3 ; one month’s duration ; caused by a fall. Situated close to the navel on its right side below external ob- lique ; opened antiseptically. Drained by caoutchouc tube. Healed up in 12 days. ii. East Indian male, ret. 3 ; caused by a fall sustained four dajrs before admission. Situated in right hj'po- chondrium, beneath external oblique ; tubes removed on fifth day. Left hospital in 10 days. . Hi. Mahomedan male, ret. 24 ; ten days’ duration ; con- sequent on spraiu. Situated in left inguinal region— superficial to muscles. Discharged in 18 days. iv. Mahomedan male, ret. 4 ; 14 days’ duration. Si- tuated in right hypochondrium in substance of trans- versalis muscle. Opened antiseptically ; closed in 10 days. Superficial wound healed a few days afterwards.( 35 ) v. Native Christian, ret. 27 ; arose during convalescence from operation for strangulated hernia (vide VI. 2 (a),) ; situated in right hypochondrium between peritoneum and muscles. Opened antiseptically by careful dissection. Healed in a fortnight. (c.) Gluteal abscesses.—i. Hebrew male. set. 3 ; 8 days’ duration ; left side. Opened antiseptically above and behind trochanter major. Discharged in 7 days ; abscess quite healed. ii. Hindu male, aet. 40 ; 20 days’ duration ; left side. Very large abscess extending from crest of ileum to below trochanter ; suffered much from fever. Opened antisep- tically 2 ; pints of pus evacuated. Remained aseptic ; got an attack of sloughing dysentery, of which he died 7 days after operation. Hi. Hindu male, set. 50 : 2 months’duration Situation and size similar to last. Opened behind great trochanter ; 2^ pints of matter evacuated ; 4 drainage tubes iuserted which were gradually withdrawn, the last 7 days after operation ; got a glandular abscess in neck, which was opened and scraped out. Left hospital in 33 days with a small sinus in neck. iv. Eurasian female, aet. 20 ; 15 days’duration. History of fever aud ague ; a Bmall abscess on right thumb, was opened nine days before admission : left side. Opened antiseptically 2nd November. A small abscess of left forearm had been opened on 29th October. An abscess at upper third of right thigh opened 5th November. Fever continued high ; dysentery appeared on 11th ; bedsore formed ; rigors set in on 11th, frequently re- peated. Erythema nodosum observed on 12th. Joints became painful. Abscesses formed in arms and upper part of right thigh ; opened on 13th. Pneumonia detected on 15th. Became delirious ; died on 16th. A case of pyajmia. All the abscesses which were opened remained aseptic.( 36 ) (d.) Abscesses of thigh.—i. East Indian male, aet. 32 ; deep-seated abscess of left thigh ; opened antiseptically. Left hospital well in 55 days ; delay caused by re-forma- tion of abscess owing to premature withdrawal of tube. ii. Hindu male, ajt. 26 ; 3 weeks' duration. Conti- nued and severe fever; very low. Large deep-seated abscesses situated in both thighs. Opened simultaneously under antiseptic precautions. Died in 4 days of prostra- tion. Hi. Portuguese male, ffit. 35 ; 1 week’s duration. History of injury. Opened antiseptically. Premature removal of tubes caused re-accumulation. Recovered completely in 60 days. iv. Hindu male. set. 37 ; 6 weeks’ duration. Suffer- ing from diabetes; very much emaciated. Opening made on inner side of leg and four tubes passed up and down. About 3 pints of pus removed. Discharge continued copious ; tissues of leg and thigh sloughed and patient was removed 31 days after operation in a dying state. v. Hindu female, ®t. 25 ; 15 days’ duration ; back of left thigh. Opened and dressed antiseptically; tubes removed in 14 days. Discharged 21 days after opera- tion. vi. Eurasian male, set. 1{§ ; 9 days’duration ; situated between adductor magnus and hamstrings of right side. Opened and dressed antiseptically. Drainage tube remov- ed in 6 days. Left hospital quite recovered in 10 days. (e ) Abscesses of leg.—i. Eurasian seaman, rnt. 48 ; 23 days’ duration ; admitted 27th July. Situated beneath deep fascia of left side. Discharged well. ii. Re-admitted 8th November, 49 days after dis- charge, with a large abscess of same leg, of 8 days’ duration ; opened antiseptically and closed in 50 days. Ivnee-joint swelled and abscess pointed in popliteal space; this was opened on 1st December after the former, and closed in 60 days. The knee-joint gradually subsid-( 37 ) ed. It remained weak, and some lateral motion was elicited by manipulation. A starch bandage was put on. He is still (1st April) in hospital. He is able to use the leg without pain or discomfort. There has been no re-appearance of abscess. Hi. Eurasian male, set. 36 ; eight days’ duration. Situated beneath deep fascia. Discharged on 1st Sep- tember, well in 24 days. 9. Incisions for hydrocele.—(a.) Mahomedan, set. 45; 16 years’ duration ; inflamed for 4 days. Laid open by free incision; turbid serum escaped ; dressed with boracic gauze; healed by granulation. Discharged in 69 days. (h.) Hindu, set. 65 ; one year’s duration ; inflamed. Laid open freely ; lymphy fluid evacuated ; granulated. Discharged in 29 days with linear cicatrix. (c.) Hindu, set. 45; 25 years’ duration. Injured a month before admission, causing sloughing of scrotum. Cavity of tunica laid open, clear fluid discharged ; healed by granulation ; discharged in 45 days with wound fully cicatrized. <d.) Hindu, set. 30; inflamed; scrotum cedematous, laid open freely ; opaque serous fluid evacuated ; healed in 43 days. In all these cases inflammation of the sac existed, causing pain, fever, tension, oedema of scrotum and sloughing in one instance. The cavity of the tunica was obliterated in each case and a radical cure obtained—the constitutional distress being at once relieved. 10. Incisions for hcematocele.—(a.) Hindu, set. 45. Double hematocele ; of 4 years’ duration, inflamed for 5 days ; general health low. Both laid open simulta- neously ; grumous fluid and decolorized clot evacuated ; healed by granulation in 72 days. General health restored. (5.) Native of Goa, set. 28 j 2 years’ duration ; left( 38 ) side. Laid open freely, contained sanguineous serum and coagulated blood. Discharged well in 77 days. (c). Hindu, jet. 34 ; 9 years’ duration ; right side ; hy- drocele of left. Hannatooele laid open by free incision ; contained blood ; hydrocele tapped. Recovered in G7 days. VII. 1. Operations for adherent penis after removal of scrotal tumour.—(a.) East Indian, rnt. 30. Scrotal tumour removed by operation on 10th September 1879 ; recovered in 3 months. Penis became gradually retracted and pulled down. Cicatricial band attaching the organ to the scrotum divided transversely and incision stitched vertically. Operation performed antiseptically. Wound remained sweet, and healed partly by granulation and partly by first intention. Discharged in 29 days. Penis quite free. (h.) Eurasian, jet. 43. Tumour removed in December 1879. Retraction of penis took place during healing. Organ free to the extent of § inch. Operation as in last case ; result satisfactory ; left hospital in 50 days. 2. For Urinarg fistula.—East Indian, set. 34. Fistula consequent on stricture. Two plastic operations had been previously performed ; fistula cauterized on two occasions. Bladder very irritable. Edges pared, small lateral flaps cut and stitched together with catgut. Winged catheter inserted. Patient withdrew catheter ; urine escaped through wound ; primary union thus prevented ; healed by granulation, and contracted slightly. About jth of the urine passed through the fistula. Left hospital 57 days after operation. 3. For Epispadias.—Hindu, aet. 15 ; congenital. Roof of urethra wanting to root of penis ; mucous membrane dissected from sides of fissure and stitched on an India rubber tube ; skin freed on each side and brought to meet in middle line ; lateral incisions made to relieve tension. Operation failed ; stitches gave way and wound gaped.( 39 ) Sides healed by granulation, leaving the chasm a little smaller than it was originally. Discharged in 27 days. 4. For Talipes varus.—(a.) French female child, aged 2 years; both feet affected. Tendo Achillis and both tibiales divided subcutaneously. Deformity entirely corrected by the use of light block tin shoes. (b.) Hindu male child, set. 2 years, 4 months ; con- genital ; both feet affected. Tendo Achillis and both tibiales divided ; bandaged to a straight splint on outside of foot. Deformity corrected. (c.) Twin brother of last case ; both feet similarly operated on. False aneurism formed behind inner malleolus of right foot, laid open and artery ( malleo- lar branch of posterior tibial) tied above and below. Wound healed up kindly. (cl.) Hindu male child, one year old ; talipes varus of both feet, operated on as in previous cases. Deformity corrected to a great extent. Special boots recommended. Circumcision.—(a.) East Indian, set. 13 ; congenital. Prepuce removed and adhesions to glans broken down. Result good. (b.) Hindu, set. 24. Contracted chancre 4 months ago ; sores still on preputial meatus. Prepuce removed by slanting incision. Result good. (c.) Hindu, set. 18; congenital; retention 10 days before admission; prepuce contracted and adherent, removed obliquely; thick fibrinous membrane found between inside of prepuce and glans; mucous membrane slit on each side. .Result satisfactory. (d.) Hindu, set. 16. Sore on penis ; paraphimosis, of 6 days’ standing ; reduced ; circumcision performed three days afterwards ; thickened prepuce removed. Result good. (e.) Hindu, a3t. 30. History of gonorrhoea and chancre, purulent discharge existing, and sinus in right groin. Prepuce removed by circumcision, sinus slit. Discharged cured of both ailments in 30 days.( 40 ) Tho oblique removal of the prepuce and bilateral division of the remains of its mucous membrane gave excellent results in these cases. VIII. 1. Hydrocele tapped and injected.-—3 ij of tinct. Iodi., diluted with an equal quantity of water, injected. Discharged in 13 days ; result satisfactory. 2. Nerve-splitting.—(a.) East Indian male, set. 17. Pain- ful thickening of left ulnar nerve and tuberculated patch of anaesthetic skin on dorsum of wrist and lower part of forearm ; commenced with itching of skin 5 years ago ; fingers not affected. Similar patch over right tendo Achillis. General health good. Thickened nerve exposed above inner condyle split to extent of 4 inches and pulled. Sheath found much thickened. Wound of nerve gaped. Operation performed antiseptically on 18th April; healed on 25th Nov. No benefit. Musculo-spiral exposed above outer condyle and stretched on 28th ; wound healed by first intention. Operation followed by wrist drop, which gradually disappeared. No improvement as regards anaesthetic patch ; would not have internal cutaneous stretched. (b.) Mahomedan, set. 52. Two painful patches of thickened skin on wrist and ulnar side of left forearm. Disease of two months’ duration. Ulnar nerve split for 4 inches above condyle and pulled. Sheath pearly in colour and thickened. Hypersesthesia relieved ; thicken- ing of skin reduced somewhat. Wound healed in 11 days ; performed antiseptically. Catgut drain used. (c.) Hindu, set. 29. Ulnar side of left forearm and little finger ansesthetic; skin thickened. Similar patch on left leg above outer malleolus. History of secondary syphilis 6 years ago. Disease of 5 months’ duration ; became glazed, red and discoloured one month ago. Ulnar nerve above elbow much thickened. Nerve split and stretched for about 5 inches ; sheath thick and pearly. Operation performed antiseptically ; catgut drain used.( 41 ) Wound healed in 12 days. Thickening of skin gra- dually disappeared ; sensation restored to a slight extent. 3. Nerve-stretching.—Hindu female, ret. 40. Anaes- thetic leprosy of 6 or 7 years’ duration ; right leg and foot affected ; gangrenous ulcers on toes. Sciatic nerve stretched. Wound healed in a week. Ulcers healed and sensation restored to a slight extent. In two of the cases where splitting of the thickened nerve was the main feature of the operation, decided relief was obtained. In the case of nerve-stretching the disease had advanced too far to leave ground for much hope. General Remarks. 1. Mortality.—The death-rate in 1880 amounted to 10‘7 per cent, against 18*5 in 1879. On comparing the tables from which these rates are deduced, it will be found that the operations of 1880 were by no means lighter in character than those of 1879. Indeed the numbers of the more important and serious cases are wonderfully alike. Whether the improved death- rate is a mere variation—a result of what may be briefly and expressively called luck,—or depends on an improvement in the management of cases, future returns will show. I am inclined provisionally, and subject to correction by wider experience, to believe that the more assiduous and scrupulous use of antiseptics has contributed materially to the result. 2. Antiseptics.—These have been more largely and carefully employed—used more strictly in cases to which they are easily applicable, and extended to others where success is not so easily attained. Rigid Listerism has been adopted whenever possible; and in cases such as operations about the mouth or anus, where putrefaction could not be excluded, agents such as chloride of zinc, iodine, permanganate of potash and boracic acid, have been freely used with a view to( 42 ) minimise putridity and remove the irritation and risk of constitutional disturbance liable to follow septic changes occurring on a wounded surface. The benefit to the hospital atmosphere has been un- doubted, and I am able to state confidently that the more completely I have succeeded in preventiug putrescence in a wound, the less suffering has the patient had to endure, and the more speedy his recovery. 3. Hospitalism,—The diseases signified by this term have been, much less frequent in 1880 than in 1879. Under the orders of the Surgeon-General for Bengal a record was kept during the year of all cases of this kind, whether following upon operations or not. The total number of these cases which occurred in the First Surgeon’s wards during the year was 15, namely 3 cases of p3rsemia, 3 of septicEemia, 7 of erysipelas and 2 of sloughing or gangrenous cellulitis. No case in which strict Listerism was established and maintained, suffered from any form of septic infection. Of the 15, G were admitted with the disease already established, 2 developed it in hospital, and in 7 it occurred after operation ; 4 of these were operations for scrotal tumour, 1 amputation of the left half of the lower jaw and submaxillary gland in an old man, and 1 removal of necrosed jaw and plastic operation on cheek in an unhealthy youth. All the cases of pya?mia and septicaemia proved fatal; one case of sloughing cellulitis died, and the other recovered, and two of the 7 cases of erysipelas proved fatal. 4. Catgut.—This material has been used for a variety of important purposes. For the deligation of divided vessels no other ligature has been employed, and in no single case has failure resulted or irritation been caused by cutting the ligature short and leaving it in the wound. In a few scrotal tumour operations( 43 ) secondary haemorrhage occurred, but this wa9 caused by vessels which escaped notice during the operation subsequently bleeding when reaction occurred. In two cases the femoral artery was tied in its continuity with catgut with the effect of permanently occluding it. In several cases the deep connections of tumours were ligatured before division and bleeding prevented at the time of operation and subsequently. The sew- ing of the testes together and their fixation by means of catgut to the surface of the perinseal wound has been an unqualified success. These organs are em- bedded in granulation material effused from their own raw surface and that of the wound, and nothing is seen of the catgut afterwards. Catgut has also been used for purposes of drainage with unfailing success. It is better than caoutchouc tubes, because there is no risk of entrance of putrid air and no need of withdrawal, the material melting away or becoming organized after it has fulfilled its function. The stitching together with catgut of the edges of the divided mucous membrane in excisions of the lower jaw is also a decided advantage, as tend- ing to prevent entry of putrid or putrescent material into the wound cavity. Of the employment of cat- gut in the radical cure of hernia I hope to write fully with extended experience in next year’s precis. P. S. D'Rozario and Co., Printers, Calcutta.. 1X s \j i PRECIS OF OPERATIONS PERFORMED IN THE WARDS OF THE FIRST SURGEON, MEDICAL COLLEGE HOSPITAL, DURING THE YEAR 1881. By Surgeon-Major K. McLeod, A.M., M.D., F.R.C.S.E., Professor of Surgery, Calcutta Medical College. The following table and notes of cases are in series with those published for the years 1879 and 1880 (Vide Indian Medical Gazette, Vol. XV., pp. 92, 123, and Vol. XVI., pp. 123, 154). The abstracts have been prepared from detailed histories drawn up by Assistant-Surgeon Devendra Nath Dey, M. B., to whom I am deeply in- debted for the able and intelligent aid he has rendered me in the performance of operations, the management of cases and the maintenance of records. Description of Operations. o£ u o d> • r-4 a 1 T3 <D I. —Operations on Arteries. 1. Ligature of radial for traumatic aneurism, ... II. —Operations on joints. 1. Extension of stiff joints, j ^ ^nee^ " 2. Excision of joints, ia. elbow,.., b. ' knee,... Total,( 2 ) Description of Operations. Number of operations Died. III.—Operations on bones. 1. Partial excision for necrosis, 2 0 2. „ caries, 2 0 Total, 4 0 IV,—A mputations. A.—For injury. 1. Primary of 4th and 5th metacarpal bones,... 1 n 2. Primary above ankle (Syme’s), 1 1* 3. Secondary—of forearm, 1 l2 4. ,, of thigh, 1 l3 5. „ of great toe, 1 0 B.—For disease. 6. For osteo-sarcoma of leg—of thigh,... 1 0 7. For disease of knee-joint—of thigh,... 1 1* 8. For mycetoma of foot—of leg, 1 0 Total, 8 4 V.—Removal of tumours. A.—Malignant. 1. Scirrhus of Mamma, 3 2* 2. Epithelioma, (a.) of lip, 1 0 (6.) of tongue, (c.) of shoulder, 1 0 1 0 (d.) of thigh, 1 0 (e.) of leg, 1 0 (/■.) of penis, 2 0 3. Sarcoma, (a.) of pharynx, 2 0 (5.) of neck, 2 2* (c.) of back, 1 V ♦( 3 ) Description op Operations. N umber of operations. ri <x> Q B.—Non-Malignant. 4. Fibroma, (a.) of lower jaw, 1 0 (b.) of male mammilla, 1 0 5. Fibro-cystoma of axilla. 1 1* 6. Glandular tumour, (a.) of male mammilla 1 0 (b.) of axilla, 1 0 7. Angioma of external ear, (ligatured), 1 0 8. Mucous polypus of mouth, 1 0 9. Cystic tumour, (a.) of forehead, 1 0 (5.) of back, 1 0 (c.) of foot, 1 0 10. Elephantiasis, (a.) of scrotum, 23 4® (b.) of labium, 1 0 11. Inflammatory tumour of mamma, 1 l10 12. External and internal piles, 4 1>1 Total, 54 12 VI.—Removal of Calculi. 1. Vesical, by lithotomy, ... 3 0 2. „ lithotrity, ... 3 0 6 0 VII.—Incisions. 1. Tracheotomy, ... 5 0 2. For strangulated hernia, (a.) with opening sac, 2 21 a (b.) without opening sac, 1 0 3. For radical cure of hernia, (a.) Wood’s operation, 2 0 (b.) antiseptic operations with 8 113 catgut, 4. For fistula in ano, 4 0 5. Perinaeal section, 8 1 >« 6. For hydrocele, 3 0 7. For hcematocele, 2 0 8. For large abscesses, 38 5'* 73 9( 4 ; Description of Operations. Number of operation s. Died. VIII.—Reparative operations. 1. For cicatrix after burn, 1 lie 2. For cleft palate. 1 0 3. For hare-lip, 2 0 4. For tongue tie, 1 0 5. For phimosis—circumcision, 5 0 10 1 IX.—Operations not classed. 1. Hydrocele tapped and injected, 7 0 2, Nerve-stretching, 1 0 m h 8 0 Grand total .. 171 26 In preparing the following abstracts of the cases con- tained in the foregoing return, I have aimed at conden- sation without sacrifice of the salient points. A few comments are appended to particular cases and groups of cases which appear to merit special notice. I. 1. Ligature of the right radial artery for traumatic aneurism.—Hindu female ®t. 35. Sustained a wound of lower third of right forearm by the spike of a date palm 3 months before admission. Suppuration followed. An abscess was lanced by a native doctor 9 days after injury. Operation followed by profuse arterial bleeding. Wound healed in a month. A pulsating swelling gradu- Vealh causes.—1 Tetanus ; 2 Secondary h Hemorrhage; 3 Traumatic gan- grene ; 4 noetic—exhaustion ; 5 (a.) Septicajmia. (6.) Thrombosis; 6 (a.) Recurrence, (6.) Shock ; 7 Paralysis and exhaustion ; 8 Diarrhcea and exhaustion: 9 one septiefemia, three tetanus ; 10 Shock ; 11 Ex- haustion ; 12 (a.) Shock, (b.) Perionitis; 13 Pysemia ; 14 Shock and hemorrhage ; 15 (a.) Asthenia, (b ) Stepticsemia, fc.J Pericarditis, fa.) Dysentery, (e.) Diarrhoea ; 16 Shook,( 5 ) ally getting largor succeeded. Radial artery ligatured with catgut on proximal and distal aspect of sac, which was laid opeu and emptied ; wound drained by catgut threads and stitched with horsehair under strict antisep- tic precautions ; wound remained aseptic and healed in 10 days. II. 1. a. Extension of stiff elbow-joint.—Mahomedan male set. 40. Joint stiffened at a right angle, the result of rheumatic arthritis; forcible extension under chlo- roform followed by passive motion. Movements restored almost to normal limits : 19 days in hospital. b. Extension of stiff knee-joint, {a).—Hindu male set. 26. Joint fixed at angle of 160° ; 6 months’ duration, fol- lowed strumous inflammation. Forcible extension under chloroform followed by gradual straightening by means of MacIntyre’s splint. Remained in hospital 52 days, and left with a straight leg but somewhat stiff joint. Could walk firmly with the aid of a stick. (5).—Hindu male set. 26. Knee bent at an angle of 125°; inflammation of leg and abscess and sinus in popliteal space. Commenced about a year before admis- sion. Forcible extension under chloroform and gradual straightening with MacIntyre’s splint. Deep ulcer formed above patella from pressure of bandage. Remained in hospital 204 days, and left with a straight leg : joint somewhat tender. Required the use of crutches. 2. a. Excision of elbow joint, (a).—Hindu female set. 40. Suppuration of left elbow joint, which was distended with pus and grated on movement. Arm and forearm extremely cedematous. Resection performed antiseptically and subperiosteally by single longitudinal incision. Cartilages found eroded and partly exfoliated : ends of bones sawn off. Wound remained sweet ; no constitutional disorder. Passive motion commenced on 20th day. Remained in hospital 98 days; left with a sound and freely moveable false elbow joint.; 6 ; (6.)—Hindoo male set. 8. Was inoculated four years ago. This led to necrosis of several bones—right tibia and fibula, left fibula and left humerus. Elbow joint of left side stiff from thickening of lower end of humerus. Resection performed by straight posterior incision. Sequesttum, consisting of 2 inches of lower end of shaft, removed and ends of bones sawn off. Passive motion commenced on 9th day. Abscess formed after wound in cavity had healed, necessitating incision and giving rise to much effusion. Eemained in hospital 170 days after operation, and left with a stiff joint in semi-flexed posi- tion. 2. b. (a). Excision of the knee-joint for ankylosis.— Hindu male eet. 42. Arthritis of left knee 4 years ago ; history of subsequent suppuration treated by incision ; knee firmly fixed at a right angle ; head of tibia dislocated outwards. Recent abscess of popliteal space opened, and leaving a sinus ; leg wasted. Resected antiseptically by semilunar incision below patella, which was removed. Ends of bones forcibly separated ; ^ an inch sawn off tibia, and about 2 inches off femur. Tendons of semiten- dinosis and biceps divided subcutaneously ; ends of bones drilled and united by twisted wires. Catgut drain brought out at each angle of wound. Pursued an aseptic course. No suppuration or constitutional disturbance ; wound healed by first intention. Drain melted away and ends re- moved in 8 days ; wires removed after 69 days. Left hospital in 150 days with a firm straight limb about 3 inches shorter than the other, and able to walk with a high-heeled and soled shoe. [This case pursued a typical aseptic course. The union of the ends of the bones by wire undoubtedly accelerated recovery.] (b).—Resection of knee joint for disorganization.— Hindu male set. 30. Disease of joint of 9 years’ standing ; much worse within last year ; swollen, tender ; bent at an angle of 145° ; movements limited; some lateral( 7 ) motion; some crackling ; starting at night. Health bad, anaemic ; gums spongy ; leg much wasted but not cedematous; resected about a month after admission after other treatment failed ; semilunar incision below l§vel of patella which was left ; about £ an inch cut off ends of bones ; joint quite disorganised ; bones in- filtrated and soft ; catgut drains inserted ; operation done antiseptically. Considerable local and constitutional disturbance ensued. Cellulitis extended up the femur and resulted in abscess which required free opening ; other abscesses formed communicating with wound cavity. Wound healed imperfectly and a low form of inflammation with profuse suppuration resulting in multiple sinuses, continued ; symptoms of hectic with great emaciation and exhaustion supervened, and it was considered advisable to amputate the limb—71 days after the resection. See below. [It would probably have been better had amputation been performed in this case in the first instance.] III. 1. Sequestrotomy. a.—Hindu male mt. 8 (see II. 2. a (b) ). Necrosjs of shaft of right tibia and fibula and left fibula following small-pox consequent on inoculation 4 years ago. Sequestra removed, cavities scraped out and purified with chloride of zinc (40 grs. to 1 oz.); wounds dressed antiseptically ; wounds remained aseptic and healed rapidly by granulation. b. Hindu male ret. 18. Upper two-thirds of epiphysis of right humerus necrosed ; consequent on an abscess which occurred a year ago. Four sinuses led to dead bone. They were laid open, the cloaca enlarged and sequestrum (5 inches long) removed ; wound purified as in last case and dressed antiseptically. Is still in hospital (3 months after operation), cavity almost filled up. Two sinuses remained whose mouths contracted. These were again laid open and the wound treated for granulation. Arm much shorter than the( 8 ) opposite; bone firm ; shoulder joint somewhat stiff. Discharges light and serous ; health greatly improved. 2. Excision of caries, a.—Hindu male aat. 25 Caries of os calcis of 4 months’ duration. History of abscess followed by sinuses which were found to lead to a carious cavity. Sinuses connected by incision ; carious bone thoroughly removed by gouge, chisel and hammer and osteotrite ; sinuses scraped and cavity dressed antisepti- cally with boracic gauze. Remained aseptic. Sinuses had to be enlarged on two subsequent occasions for the extraction of fragments of bone. The cavity finally healed up soundly after 170 days’ residence in hospital. b. East Indian set. 18. Caries of os calcis and cuboid of 6 months’ standing. Three sinuses on the outer border of foot leading down to carious bone ; cavity exposed by free incision and carious material thoroughly extirpated, sinus- es scraped out, wound washed with chloride of zinc (40 grs. to 3 i) and dressed antiseptically. Cavity filled up with granulation material and wound healed without further operation. Left hospital with a sound, useful though somewhat deformed foot in 111 days. Amputations. IV. A. 1. Primary amputation of 4th and 5 metacarpal bones.—Hindu male ret. 32. Compound comminuted frac- ture with great laceration of soft parts ; occurred 2^ hours before admission. Ring and little fingers removed with metacarpal bones, which were divided £ an inch from proximal end catgut drains and horse-hair stitches. Flaps slouched, but on separation wound granulated kindly and healed in two months. 2. Primary amputation above the anlcle joint (Syme’s)— Mahomedan male ret. 12. Right foot crushed 4 hours before admission ; bones broken and dislocated, and soft parts stripped and lacerated. Lacerated wound of scalp over occipital bone. Flap obtained from heel and inner side of foot. Bones divided above malleoli; performed( 9 ) under strict antiseptic precautions. There was consider- able reaction and temperature continued high (100 to 102°), wound remained aseptic, and no local inflam- mation or suppuration arose. Symptoms of tetanus appeared 7 days after operation, the disease assumed a very acute type and proved fatal in 24 hours. 3. Secondary amputation of the forearm for gangrene.— Hindu male set 30. Left forearm crushed in a sugar mill 11 days before admission. Both bones broken; tissues on anterior aspect of forearm gangrenous. Temp. 103°, pulse feeble ; patient restless and delirious. Gangrenous tissues removed at line of demarcation with scissors. Oval flap cut from sound tissues on dorsum; bones divided 2 inches below elbow ; vessels secured with cat- gut. Tissues in a state of inflammatory infiltration; great tendency to oozing which was checked by cat- gut ligatures. Wound washed with chloride of zinc (40 gr. to 3i ) and dressed antiseptically Secondary haemorrhage occurred on two occasions in consequence of patient’s restlessness. He became low and sank 15 hours after the operation. 4. Secondary amputation of thigh for compound fracture and haemorrhage from eroded popliteal artery.—Hindu male aet. 43, admitted 29th November with compound comminuted fracture of left femur above the condyles ; wound was in course of repair when, on 31st December, free arterial haemorrhage occurred. This was controlled by graduated compress, but was repeated on three sub- sequent occasions, greatly reducing patient's strength. It became evident that the blood proceeded from the main artery, and amputation was resorted to as the only means of saving life ; the bleeding point being very deep and the prospect of gangrene certain if the main artery of the limb were ligated. The amputa- tion was performed by Carden’s method bloodlessly and antiseptically. The stump became gangrenous( 10 ) within 24 hours ; the gangrene spread rapidly and death ensued on the 2nd day after the operation. The popliteal artery was found to have been eroded by a sharp edge of the broken bone. 5. Secondary amputation of the great toe.—Hindu male set. 30. Sustained a seyere lacerated wound of the sole of left foot by the fall of an iron bar on it 6 months before admission. Great toe pulled down and fixed at right angles to sole of foot by cicatricial contraction. It was removed at the metatarso-phalangeal joint. The wound healed by granulation in 89 days. Patient left hospital with a useful foot. 6. Amputation of thigh for osteosarcoma of leg.—• Hindu male set. 18. Tumour of 9 months’ duration follow- ed upon an injury ; fungated 10 days before admission; implicated the whole of the leg, which measured 21 inches in circumference. Skin tense, hot, glazed and tender; foot oedematous ; inguinal glands enlarged ; patient weak and anaemic. Amputation by Garden's method performed bloodlessly and autiseptically. Catgut drain inserted in front and behind end of bone and brought out at the angles. Wound remained aseptic and healed by first intention. There was no inflammation, suppu- ration, nor constitutional disturbance. Wire stitches removed in 10 days and horse hair in 18. The wound healed in 11 days, except at the corners where tho drains emerged : these dropped off. Patient remained 62 days in hospital until the stump was sufficiently callous to bear the weight of the body on an artificial limb. The tumour was found on examination to be an osteo-sarcoma originating in the head of the labia. 7. Amputation of the thigh for disorganized hiee joint,<£c. —This patient had undergone resection of the knee joint (see II. 2. b. (b.) above). Amputation was resorted to for the purpose of removing the morbid tissues( 11 ) which were in a state of suppurative inflam- mation and so minimising the profuse discharge which was giving rise to a rapidly exhausting hectic. The anterior flap of the resection wound was retained as the anterior flap of the amputation ; the patella remov- ed, the posterior flap cut by oblique incision through the popliteal space and the femur divided above the condyles. The cavity of the resection wound was thus taken away. An abscess cavity running up the thigh, into which a counter-opening had been made below the trochanter remained. The man was in a state of miserable debility, but bore the operation well. Very little blood was lost. He seemed at first to rally. No attempt at repair took place; discharge continued profuse; wasting and exhaustion progressive, and ha died 8 days after operation. The wound did not undergo putrefaction after either operation, and the suppurative melting away of the tissues seemed to be the result of sheer constitutional asthenia. 8. Amputation of the leg for mycetoma of foot.—Hindu male set. 34. Sustained an injury of the sole of left foot about a year before admission. A month after a few pimples appeared near the wound which suppurated and burst; successive crops of fresh pimples appeared, the foot and ankle meantime growing bulky. On admission foot, ankle and lower third of leg found brawny and covered with button-like tubercles through which a probe entered and passed deeply into the member. No bare bone could be felt. White granular material like hilsa row could be spooned out of the sinuses. Amputation of leg at junction of middle and lower third performed bloodlessly and antiseptically by long anterior and short posterior flaps. Catgut drain used : wound remained aseptic and healed by first intention. Drain fell off on 7th day ; wire sutures removed on 5th and horse hair on 11th day. Wound soundly healed in 15 days. Left hospital( 12 ) 54 days after operation. Able to walk comfortably on an artificial bottle leg. [Nos. 6 and 8 in this list present typical illustrations of the advantage of the antiseptic method in ampu- tation. The use of catgut drains was found to be attended with the best results in both cases. In Nos. 3, 4 and 7 amputation was resorted to under des- perate circumstances in the hope of saving life which was fast ebbing under the circumstances detailed. The fatal result in No. 2, though occurring under strict and successful antiseptic management, was in no way due to it. The tetanus which proved so rapidly fatal, was probably due as much to shock as to the irritation arising from the local injury. The two remaining cases were trivial.] V. 1.—Scirrhus of Mamma, a.—Hindu female set. 45 ; right breast; 11 months’ duration. Skin sparingly involv- ed, tumour moveable over pectoral muscle ; hard cord run- ning towards right axilla, glands of which were involved. General health poor. Had borne no children. Gland re- moved antiseptically ; oval piece of skin covering gland taken away ; axillary glands dissected out. Lower flap sloughed and suppurative cellulitis of chest wall took place, ending in abscess which required opening. Putre- faction was averted throughout by careful use of antisep- tics. Constitutional disturbance moderate ; had an attack of dysentery for 15 days during second month. Wound finally healed by granulation, and patient was discharged well after a stay in hospital of 145 days. b.—Hindu female set. 50. Tumour of right breast of 2 years’ duration ; inflamed and ulcerated 10 months ago; moveable over pectoralis major ; axillary glands enlarged and indurated ; general health good. Tumour and axillary glands extirpated along with the skin covering the mamma. Portions of pectoralis major and serratus mag- nus subsequently dissected away because of infiltration ;( 13 ) edges of wound brought together by button stitches and wire sutures. Operation performed under strict antiseptic precautions. Fell into a state of collapse immediately after, and remained low for two days (temp. 96°). Wound remained aseptic for 6 days, and then became putrid. Diarrhoea set in and sloughing invaded flaps and wound. Symptoms of septic poisoning occurred ; purging and vomiting continued ; the wound gaped and became gangrenous and death ensued from exhaustion and septicaemia 19 days after operation. [This was a very severe operation involving great shock and considerable loss of blood. The case promised to do well until, through some accident, putrefaction gained access to the wound. The fatal sequence—diar- rhoea, vomiting, septicaemia, gangrene—rapidly followed,] c.—European female set. 25. Scirrhus of left breast of one year’s duration ; ulcerated above nipple ; moveable over pectoral muscle ; enlarged indurated glands in axilla ; mamma with skin covering it removed by two semi-lunar incisions. A suspicious piece of pectoralis major dissected off : axillary glands extirpated : cat- gut drain used. Operation performed under strict antiseptic precautions. Suffered from shock with vomit- ing and restlessness during the day, followed by smart reaction ; went on well for 5 days, when she had a rigor, succeeded by high fever which ranged from 99° to 104°, and lasted to the end. The wound remained aseptic, and repair was in active and satisfactory progress. Diarrhoea, vomiting and smoky urine were observed, and the dressings at once changed from carbolic to boracic acid, thymol lotion being used as spray and for irrigation. The left arm and left side of the face became tensely cedematous ; patient became comatose with low muttering delirium. Hypostatic congestion of the lungs set in and death ensued 19 days after operation. On examination of the tumour after death its structure was found to( 14 ) be inflammatory rather than cancerous. Clinically it presented all the features of malignancy pain, cachexy, infiltration, rapid but gradual growth and break- ing down into a sloughy cavern with indurated base and edges and irregular mammillated surface. [I am inclined to attribute the unfortunate issue in this case to carbolic acid poisoning. The wound pursued an aseptic course and repair was proceeding actively. The only trace of suppuration which was observed was a little pus which formed at the outer angle. The gastro- enteric irritation, smoky urine, pyrexia and head symptoms point to carbolic absorption. The change of dressings produced no improvement. Thrombosis l^ad apparently taken place in the left axillary and innominate veins. A post-mortem examination could not be obtained.] 2. (aj. Epithelioma of lip.—Mahomedan male set, 40 ; 2 months’ duration ; involved whole of lower lip, which was thickened, indurated, everted and ulcerated ; lym- phatic glands below chin enlarged and a solitary gland on right side of middle line lower down. General health indifferent. Lower lip entirely removed. Vertical inci- sion inch long carried down to chin and lateral curved incisions from the end of it downwards and outwards ; flaps dissected off. A few labial glands removed and the whole of the enlarged lymphatic glands. Flaps united in middle line and raised so as to form a new lower lip, which was first held up by wire loops secured to a bandage fastened round the head and then by buttons, the wires attached to which were fastened to the teeth. Wound healed mostly by first intention, the triangular wound below the chin by granulation ; suffer- ed from pneumonia and parotitis ; made a satisfactory recovery. Lower lip half covered, the lower teeth and mouth could be closed almost completely. No reappear- ance of the disease during the 72 days he spent in hos- pital after the operation.( 15 ) b. Epithelioma of the tongue.—Hindu male set. 40 ; 5 months’ duration ; ragged ulcer on dorsum of tongue near root; base indurated, and posterior third of organ generally infiltrated ; floor of mouth and gums healthy. Enlarged and indurated glands below inferior border of lower jaw ; general health good. Tracheotomy perform- ed and chloroform administered through tube ; pharynx stuffed with sponge. Incision made in middle line above hyoid bone and mesial aponeurosis of mylo- hyoid divided ; tongue separated from floor of mouth by scissors ; aneurism needle passed through base and chain ecraseur brought through mental wound ; tongue pulled forward and f ths of organ extirpated, remainder removed by ecraseur in two sections. Tracheotomy tube removed next day. Fed with a soft catheter for a few days. Began to sit up and walk about after three days ; wound of floor of mouth healed kindly by granulation, and submental and tracheotomy wounds united rapidly, leaving linear cicatrices. Left hospital 53 days after operation with wounds soundly healed ; could swallow well, and distinguish salt from sugar by taste. Able to articulate intelligibly. Returned in 3 months with recurrence of disease in the floor of the mouth ; faucial aperture much contracted : no further operation resorted to.—(See Indian Medical Gazette, Vol. XVT.. p. 285.) c. Epithelioma of shoulder.—Hindu female mt. 45. Sustained a severe burn at 16 years of age which caused loss of right pinna, and resulted in cicatricial bands pull- ing head and face towards right shoulder and establish- ed the condition of torticollis. A hard swelling appear- ed a year ago over spine of scapula resulting in an ulcer with a hard base attached firmly to the bone ; neighbouring tissue much infiltrated and indurated. Ulcerated tumour dissected off and subjacent bone freely removed by gouge and osteotrite ; enlarged lymphatic glands in posterior triangle removed ; cicatricial banda( 1G ) divided transversely and stitched longitudinally ; flaps taken from the nape of the neck and transplanted on to the side of the neck. A very large wound remained. Operation performed antiseptically ; wound remained sweet and healed very slowly by granulation. Skin graft* ing attempted twice unsuccessfully. Is still in hospital with a small ulcer about the size of a rupee on the top of the shouider which is contracting slowly ; has been 230 days under treatment. Wry neck much improved ; no reappearance of disease. d. Epithelioma of thigh.—Mahomedan male set. 40 ; 4 years’ duration ; situated on inner side of right buttock ; foul ulcer about 1 inch in diameter set on a raised hard base and surrounded by thickened, indurated and infil- trated skin not moveable over subjacent fascia. Mass removed along with fascia, leaving a large open wound about 5 inches long which was left to heal by granula- tion. This process occupied 76 days. Left hospital with a sound cicatrix and no reappearance of disease. e. Epithelioma (?) of leg.—Hindu female set. 48; warty looking growth on outside of right leg below knee, of 34 years’ duration ; has made rapid progress during last 3 yearn ; measured 5 in. X 3 ; ulcerated and fungating at centre ; freely moveable on muscles ; surface tuberculat- ed, raised and indurated ; surrounding infiltration slight. Removed antiseptically with part of subjacent fascia ; edges of wound approximated by button stitches. Wound remained sweet and healed by granulation in 73 days. On examination the growth was found to be of warty rather than epithelioinatous nature. The epithelial cells were confined to the surface, and the hard base was com- posed of small round cells and cicatricial tissue. f. Epithelioma of penis, (a).—Hindu male ast. 25 Had soft chancre and phimosis 8 years ago ; latter treated by circumcision, which left an induration which has gradually extended and ulcerated, invading the( 17 ) glans and body of the penis ; growth warty, tubercular or xnammillated. Organ removed about an inch from the root, corpora cavernosa divided higher than corpus spongiosum, which was stitched to the edges of a slit in a ventral flap. Bleeding stopped by catgut ligatures. Mass of cancerous lymphatic glands removed from left groin. Dressed with sulphate of iron lotion (gr. xto ^i.) This did not keep the wounds aseptic. Both suppurated and healed by granulation. The final result was satis- factory. Left hospital 37 days after operation with wounds soundly healed, patent urethra and no sign of recurrence. b. Hindu male set 40 ; operation of circumcision per- formed for phimosis three years ago. An indurated sore appeared in the cicatrix 6 months after, which invaded the penis, amputation of which was performed 8 months ago. The disease recurred in the stump and the right inguinal glands became enlarged, indurated and then broke down and fungated ; tumour and glands thoroughly extirpated with the skin covering them and the aponeurosis of the external oblique—both pillars and part of Poupart’s and Gimbernat’s ligament—to which the diseased glands were intimately glued. A very large wound resulted, the edges of which were approximated by button stitches. It was dressed antiseptically and remained sweet. It healed by granulation. Patient left hospital 85 days after the operation with a sound cicatrix, a patent urethra, and no sign of recurrence of the cancer. No tendency to hernia was observed, although the pillars of the outer ring had been removed along with a large piece of the aponeurosis of the external oblique. [The principal interest of this case, apart from the necessary severity of the operation, consists in the demonstration which it affords that it is the conjoined tendon that constitutes the principal agent in preventing( 18 ) formation of hernia; the external ring forming a very secondary and feeble adjuvant.] 3. a.—Sarcoma of pharynx, (a).—Eurasian male set. 33. Large tumour of pharynx of 6 months’duration; consisted of 2 lobes—one springing from left tonsil, the other at- tached to posterior wall of pharynx and occupying left half of soft palate as far forwards as the edge of hard palate. Uvula displaced to right side. Aperture of fauces greatly contracted ; considerable difficulty in talking and swallowing ; tumour seemed to be confined to the pharyn- geal wall and left pillars of fauces ; tongue not im- plicated. Laryngotomy performed as a preliminary and tube inserted through which chloroform was administered. Mucous membrane divided by scissors and probe pointed bistoury ; tumour separated from surrounding tissue by finger and detached by chain ecraseur. Portions which remained behind removed by scissors. Tube removed after 24 hours. Patient fed through a tube for a month. Parts diligently gargled with Condy's fluid ; wound granulated and healed in 51 days. Uvula was drawn to left side. He was able to speak clearly and swallow comfortably; no sign of recurrence manifest when he left hospital. (b). Same patient returned 75 days after discharge with a recurrence of the tumour. Remained well for a month, when a painful swelling of the throat and left parotid region appeared. A piece of slough sepa- rated from the region of the left tonsil, but a tumour re- mained which was felt to have a smooth rounded sur- face between the sterno-mastoid and ramus of the jaw. It was pretty movable, and no enlarged glands could be discovered. It was determined to attempt its removal from without. A semi-lunar incision about 2 inches long was made behind the ramus and angle of the lower jaw, the skin and platysma myoides were cut through and the external jugular veins exposed and( 19 ) ligatured in two places and then cut. The deep fascia was divided and the sterno-mastoid exposed. The facial artery and vein were ligatured and divided ; the posterior belly of the digastric and the stylo-hyoid muscles dissected, caught in a catgut loop and held out of the way. The mouth was thrown open by a Smith’s gag ; the external carotid artery tied and held aside. The tumour was then felt through the wound—which was enlarged by a downward incision at right angles to the first. The tumour was separated by finger and scissors, care being taken to cut in the sound structures outside of it, vessels being promptly tied as they bled by catgut ligatures, the ends of which were left long for drainage. All suspicious mucous membrane was removed by scissors and the morbid mass thoroughly' taken away. The wound healed kindly by granulation and was superficial in a fortnight. The patient was fed with a tube for 18 days, and was then able to swallow. He left hospital in good health 35 days after the operation with a sound T shaped cicatrix on the left side of his neck. [This man underwent both of these formidable opera- tions very successfully. Fuller details of them will be found in the Indian Medical Gazette (Vol. XVI., pp. 146, 232 ). I have recently (7 months after last discharge from hospi- tal) seen him again. There is no recurrence of the growth in the pharynx. He is able to talk distinctly and swallow well, but there is a diffuse infiltration below the left ear about the origin of the sterno-mastoid muscle which forms a swelling and impedes the opening of the lower jaw. This swelling subsided somewhat after being painted with iodine, but there is every reason to fear that the tumour has recurred, and in such a way as to preclude any further operative interference.] 6. Sarcoma of the neck, (a.)—Mahomedan male mt. 16. Tumour said to have commenced a month ago as( 20 ) a nodule under the angle of the lower jaw, right aide. Had undergone very rapid increase ; is situated in the anterior triangle, pushing the larynx to the left, extending behind body of lower jaw, and forming a swelling in the pharynx, fungating externally. Surrounding tissues ccdematous ; outline of rumour ill defined ; very sparingly movable. No enlarged glands ; general health poor ; no specific history. Suffers much from dyspnoea and dys- phagia ; face livid ; asphyxiation imminent. Tracheotomy performed on admission : great relief experienced ; colour was restored and dyspnoea subsided ; tube left in fora week and then removed. Had to be reinserted after another week for renewed dyspnoea. The tumour became more defined after the oedema subsided. Two abscesses form- ed—the one in the left groin the other in the left buttock. They were opened and healed kindly. New nodules began to grow in the neighbourhood of the tumour, and the consent of the patient’s guardians having been obtained, an attempt was made to extirpate the tumour 39 days after the tracheotomy. ( hloroform was admi- nistered through the tube. The skin was divided by a triangular incision whose base was parallel to the lower border of the lower jaw outer side to the sterno-mastoid and iuner to the middle. After a prolonged and intricate dissection, during which the patient ceased to breathe and artificial respiration had to be resorted to, the mass was thoroughly extirpated. Part of the sterno-mastoid and the subinaxillary gland were removed and the facial superior thyroid and lingual vessels tied ; preliminary ligation was resorted to in separating the deep attach- ments. The carotid sheath was not involved. The lower jaw was laid bare and subsequently an exfoliation separated from it. The wound was left open and dressed with boracic gauze. It filled up with granula- tion material and contracted to some extent, but the growth recurred and a similar tumour appeared in the( 21 ) tipper part of the right thigh. Patient emaciated aDd died of exhaustion 69 days after the operation. [This patient’s life was undoubtedly saved for the time by the tracheotomy. The removal of the tumour was resorted to as the only chance of saving a young life. The operation was extremely difficult and formidable, but recovery took place from the immediate effects of it, and repair of tne parts was in progress when local and remote recurrence took place. Further operation could not be recommended, and patient yielded his life very slowly by a process of emaciation and asthenia probably due to secondary visceral deposits. A post-mortem exa- mination was not permitted. The sarcoma was of the small round-celled variety.] (A) Mahomedan male set. 45. Infiltrating tumour of the right side of the neck, of 8 months’ duration, situated below sterno-mastoid and extending from the anterior border of the trapezius to near the middle line ; very hard ; skin movable over it. Seemed to be cir- cumscribed, and was capable of being moved as a mass. Exposed by an incision in the line of the sterno-mastoid, part of which had to be removed. Carotid artery and internal jugular vein were imbedded, and were tied above and below. Pneumogastric nerve dissected out of the tumour. Died of shock 6 hours after the operation. The tumour was found to be a large spindle-celled sarcoma apparently of glandular origin, and implicating the carotid sheath and right lobe of the thyroid body. c. Sarcoma of back.—Hindu male set. 46. Had a tumour (fibro-sarcoma) removed from his back in 1880 (see V. 4 a. of precis of 1880) ; remained well for 4 months when a new growth started at the site of the old. This continued to increase rapidly. Re-admitted, and second operation performed 11 months after first. It was found to implicate the spinal column, and it became( 22 ) necessary lo remove (he arches of the last two dorsal vertebras. Under antiseptic management the wound progressed favourably, but wasting, paralysis and bedsores supervened, and death occurred from exhaustion 91 days after the operation. The tumour was found to be a sarcoma. Secondary deposits were discovered in the liver and lungs, and the bodies of the 12th dorsal vertebra and 2nd, 4th and 5th lumbar were found to have been com- pletely decalcified and converted into fibrous tissue of an embryonic type. [Full details of this interesting case are given in the Indian Medical Gazette, Vol., XVI., page 315.] 4. a. Fibroma of lower jaw.—Hiudu male jet. 30. Tumour of left side, of 10 years’ duration. Eemoved insufficiently 7 years ago. The portion left behind gra- dually increased to the size of a large orange. Skin much thinned and ulcerated in two places. Mass exposed by two semi-lunar incisions including thinned and ulcerated skin. Tumour removed by disarticulation of lower jaw. Wound healed above and below by first intention ; gaped in the centre ; filled up by granulations. Aperture gradually contracted. A second operation needed to obliterate it. Left hospital 75 days after operation. b. Fibroma of male mammilla.—European male set. 41. Hard mass about the size of a walnut, of 3 months’ growth; gland removed along with nipple and areola. Catgut drain inserted and edges brought together: healed by first intention in 13 days. The mass on exami- nation was found to be a simple mass of fibrous tissue. 5. Fibro-cystoma of axilla. — Hindu male set. 23. Had a boil in the right axilla 8 months ago, which burst and left an ulcer which was neglected and healed slowly. It was succeeded by a swelling in the same region which has grown very rapidly during the last two months. Tumour circumscribed and movable. Extends from outer border of scapula to 1^ inch above right nipple. Soft)( 23 ) elastic, doughy and painful on pressing ; exposed by single incision parallel to lower border of pectoral is major. Did not possess a capsule. Merged into surrounding areolar tissue ; intimately connected with veins of axilla. Extripated by scissors and scalpel ; wound closed antisep* ticully. Suffered from shock for 12 hours. Had feeble reaction with considerable prostration. Diarrhoea and vomiting set in, and he sank exhausted 3 days after operation. The tumour was examined by Professor McConnell, whose description of it is as follows :— Tumour of axilla.—A multilocular cyst which does not appear to be connected with any large blood vessels ; its walls are composed of fibro-elastic tissues, and lined by flat pavement epithelium. The loculi vary in size from that of a sparrow’s egg to that of a walnut. They contain glutinous looking fluid which under the micros- cope exhibits mucoid material with small round mucous corpuscles, epithelium and a few blood cells. In parts walls are thick and semi-solid ; when incised presents a honey-combed or cavernous structure from commencing disruption and differentiation into cystic expansions. 6. a. Glandular tumour of male mammilla.—Hindu male set. 22. About the size of an orange; of 5 years’ duration ; knotty to feel ; circumscribed. Removed antiseptically ; wound healed kindly. Left hospital in 27 days. b Glandular tumour of axilla. — Hindu female set. 50 ; of 24 years’ growth. Increase rapid during last 2 years ; lanced by a barber, wound became unhealthy and sloughy ; admitted with a large excavation in floor of left axilla, full of putrid pus and maggots, and surround- ed by indurated tissue movable on chest wall. Mass dissected out. Axillary artery and vein implicated in indurated mass. They were divided and secured by proximal and distal catgut ligatures, wound left to heal by granulation. The chasm gradually filled up and contracted until now (106 days after operation), but a( 24 ) small superficial sore remains. Vitality of extremity not impaired. No pulse at the wrist. Little or no constitution- al disturbance throughout. Boracic dressing used. 7. Angioma of ear.—Hindu male aet. 24. Eight pinna enormously swollen ; began to swell 5 years ago. Part livid, hot, pulsating. A curved needle was passed beneath the posterior auricular and the branches of the temporal and occipital arteries, supplying the ear, and double catgut threads tied tightly over rolls of boracic gauze. The pulsation stopped at once, the pinna got gradually smaller, cooler and firmer. The ligatures came away in about a fortnight, the part of the threads in contact with the tissues having been almost or en- tirely absorbed. Small linear ulcers remained which soon healed. Left the hospital 18 days after the operation greatly relieved. 8. Mucous polypus of mouth,.—Hindu male set. 16. Admitted with his mouth full of a mass of polypoid material of 4 months’ growth which was found to spring from the hard palate ; mouth permanently open. Res- piration and deglutition greatly impeded. A wire ecrasenr was passed over the fundus of the tumour and the narrow pedicle easily severed. Relief was immediate. A subsequent tendency to grow was checked by the application of lunar caustic. Left the hospital in 43 days. 9. a. Cystic tumour of forehead—Hindoo male set. 25. Congenital dermoid cyst above right eyebrow ; size of a small apple. Removed antiseptically by single incision. Healed by first intention. Discharged in 22 days. b. Cystic of bach —Sebaceous cyst behind left shoul- der, of 2 years' growth, about the size of a mango. Re- moved antiseptically. Wound healed almost entirely by first intention. Discharged in 19 days. c. Cyst of foot.—Situated in front of left ankle ; of 5 years’ duratiou. Removed antiseptically by single inci- sion. Remained sweet and healed in 28 days.( 25 ) 10. a. Removal of elephantiasis of the scrotum, (a).— Hindu male £et. 17 ; 2 years’ duration. Slight enlarge- ment of spieen. Health otherwise good. Penis unaf- fected, not decorticated. Scrotum removed under antiseptic precautions. Testes stitched together and to surface of wound by catgut; lateral flaps brought together over them by continuous catgut suture. Healed in 58 days. Tumour weighed 6 oz. (5.) Hindu male set. 19 ; 4 months’ duration ; health good. Removed antiseptically ; flaps taken from thigh to cover testes which were stitched together as in case (a). Left hospital 60 days after operation. Tumour weighed 12 oz. (c.) Hindu male set. 35 ; 6 years’ duration ; large double hydrocele. Removed bloodlessly and antiseptically ; flaps taken from thighs; testes stitched as in case (a). Dis- charged in 64 days. Tumour weighed 3 tbs. 10 oz. (d.) Hindu male ®t. 40 ; 1^ years’ duration. Ulcer on fundus ; abscess on dorsum of penis. Tumour removed antiseptically; flaps cut from thighs; testes stitched. Healed in 34 days. Weighed 13 oz. (e.) Mahomedan male ®t. 32 ; 12 years’ duration. History of hydrocele on both sides ; health good. Tu- mour removed bloodlessly and antiseptically ; flaps taken from thighs and testes stitched. Tunicae adherent to testes. Right contained a large quantity of jelly-like lymph. Wound remained aseptic. Discharged in 94 days. Tumour weighed 1 lb. 11 oz. (/■.) Hindu male set. 40 ; one year's duration ; beads of dilated lymphatics on fundus. Tumour removed anti- septically ; tunic® found adherent to testes. These were stitched together and placed in pockets which were formed by separating the deep layer of the superficia. perin®al fascia from the subjacent structures. The lateral flaps so formed were stitched by continuou( 26 ) catgut suture over the testes. Wound remained aseptic and healed in 71 days. Weight of tumour 13 ounces. (g.) Hindu male set. 26 ; 4 years’ duration. History of Byphilis 8 years ago ; admitted in an inflamed condition ; on the inflammation subsiding an operation was perform- ed as in case (f). Repair took place satisfactorily in 64 days ; an abscess formed in right groin which was opened antiseptically and healed in a few days. Slight hy- drocele existed on both sides. Tumour weighed 13 ounces. (h.) Hindu male ast. 55 ; 20 years' duration. Operation as in case (/) ; wound remained aseptic, and was progress- ing satisfactorily when tetanus supervened on the 8th and carried the patient off on the 9th day after operation Tumour weighed 3 lbs. 8 oz. (£.) Hindu male set. 22 ; 4 years’ duration ; history of gonorrhoea and double bubo ; general health good. Operation as in case (J). Pursued an aseptic course. Discharged 45 days after operation. Tumour weighed 8 ounces. (j.) Mahomedan male set 28; 3 years’ duration ; history of gonorrhoea followed by orchitis. Hydrocele on right side. Tumour removed as in case (b). Repair progressed satisfactorily. Discharged in 97 days. Cica- trization of penis slow. Tumour weighed 2 lbs. 4 oz. (h.) Hindu male set. 45 ; 20 years’ duration ; history of hydrocele. Health good. Removed as in case (/), Wound remained aseptic and healed in 49 days ; tunicas adherent to testes ; lymphatic l>eads on scrotum ; lining membrane of prepuce left behind. It became cedematous and then thickened. Tumour weighed 2 lbs. 1 oz. (l.) Hindu male set. 41 ; 3 years’ duration ; history of double hydrocele which was tapped and injected. Oper- ation as in case (f): tunicse adherent to testes; suffered from high fever and smoky urine preceded by roseolar eruption for five days. Carbolic dressings discontinued; iodine irrigation and boracic dressings used. Wound( 27 ) continued aseptic and healed satisfactorily in 37 days. Tumour weighed 14 oz. (m.) Native Christian male set. 40 ; 8 years’duration; history of syphilis ; numerous ulcers on penis, scrotum and right leg. Operation as in case (/.) Tunica adherent to right testis ; small hydrocele on left side. Wound remained aseptic but healed slowly. Discharged in 102 days. Weighed 2 Its. 6 oz, (n.) Hindu male set. 30 ; 3 years’ duration. Enormous hydrocele on right side and very large on left ; phimosis of penis, which was otherwise unaffected. Hyper- trophied fundus of the scrotum removed by elliptical incision ; hydroceles emptied ; redundant tunicse clipped off ; testes stitched as in case (a.) ; phimosis slit. Oper- ation performed antiseptically. Wound remained aseptic, and healed in 24 days. Patient discharged in 35 days. Tumour weighed 1 lb. 10 oz. (o.) Hindu male set. 30; 10 years’ duration ; hsema* tocele on right and hydrocele on left side ; skin of penis Sound not removed; thickened portion of scrotum taken away by elliptical incision. Tunicas emptied and pared off; testes stitched as usual ; lateral flaps brought over them. Operation performed antiseptically. Wound re- mained sweet and repair was in satisfactory progress when tetanus set in on 13th day and carried him off on 21st after operation. (P ) Native Christian male set. 40 ; 4 years’ duration ; hematocele on right side and hydrocele on left. Oper- ation as in case (o ). Wound remained aseptic and healed in 56 days. Tumour weighed 17 oz. (q.) Mahomedan male set. 27 ; 5 years’ duration. Immense hydrocele on left side, a small one on right. Operation as in case (o ) Wound putrefied and became sioughy. Surrounding tissues oedematous and excoriated. Suffered from pyrexia. Tetanus set in on 9th day and( 28 ) carried him off on 12th day after operation. Tumour weighed 12 oz. (r) Hindu male set. 40 ; 2 years’ duration. Hsematocele on right side and hydrocele on left. Operation as in case (o.) Wound putrefied and some sloughing took place from the surface of the cords. On the separation of the sloughs healthy repair set in and was completed in 61 days. Tumour weighed 14 ounces. (s.) Mahomedan male aet. 40; 3 years’ duration. Immense hydrocele on right side, a small one on left. Health indifferent. Operation as in case (o.) Eight tunica contained a large quantity of jelly-like lymphy material. As much of the redundant tunica as possible removed by scissors. Flaps brought over testes to with- in fth of an inch. Wound remained aseptic and healed without suppuration. Discharged in 30 days. The mass which was removed weighed 1 lb. 4 oz. (<.) Mahomedan malocet. 30 ; 12 years’ duration. Right oblique inguinal hernia of 5 years’ duration ; double hydrocele ; spleen much enlarged, liver slightly so ; in the habit of consuming 12 grs. of opium daily. Tumour removed antiseptically and bioodlessly. Flaps taken from thigh. Sac of hernia dissected out, ligatured at neck and cut off ; stump reduced into canal, pillars and sides of canal brought together by iron wire. Suffered from shock and strong reaction; symptoms of septicaemia appeared on 6th day. Wound putrid and sloughy The unhealthy action extended, bedsores formed and patient sank of exhaustion 12 days after operation. No symp- tom of peritonitis. (m.) Hindu male set. 45 ; 7 years’ duration. Rieht oblique inguinal hernia (scrotal) of 5 years’ duration. Scrotal tumour removed as usual. Sac of hernia dissected out. Spermatic artery accidentally wounded, castration of right testicle performed in consequence. Sac ligatured at neck and cut off : stump reduced. Pillars and sides of( 29 ) canal brought together with two double catgut threads ; some suppuration took place around the stump of the cord requiring the use of a drainage tube, otherwise the wound pursued the usual aseptic course, and patient left hospital 67 days after the operation with a sound cicatrix. The right inguinal canal was blocked up> the ring obliterated, and there was no impulse nor tendency to hernial descent. The tumour weighed 4 oz. 6 ibs. (v.) Hindu male ret. 30. Penis, scrotum and pubis covered with a large serpigenous ulcer of 6 years’ dura- tion, which commenced with a soft chancre. Scrotum enlarged (elephantoid). Ulcer dissected off and thickened scrotum removed; penis dissected out of cicatricial mass ; flaps taken from thigh and stitched over testes, which were also stitched together and to surface of perinseum. Operation performed with antiseptic precautions ; flaps united and wound which remained aseptic healed kindly. Cicatrization of penis very tedious. Discharged in 123 days. (w.) Hindu male act. 25. A lage serpigenous ulcer on scrotum, pubis and groins following chancre and bubo contracted 4 years ago ; penis completely embedded in cicatricial mass ; scrotum much thickened ; edges of ulcer papillomatous. Uicer dissected off including the tuber, culated edge, except from right groin ; penis freed and thickened, scrotum removed ; flap taken from left thigh : testes stitched as usual. Pcpair of the large wound very tedious. After a stay in hospital of 225 days he left with a sound eicatrix. Mass removed weighed 11^ oz. [These cases range themselves into distinct categories according as the operation was performed for—1. Sim- ple scrotal tumour ; 2. Hydrocele or hmmatocele or both with some degree of scrotal hypertrophy ; 3. Scrotal tumour complicated with hernia, and 4. Serpigenous ulceration associated with more or less thickening of( 30 ) the scrotal and penile tissues. 1. To the first category belong cases a—ni.—13 in all. These cases were operated on under strict antiseptic precautions, the parts being thoroughly washed with a 1—20 carbolic lotion before the operation, and the spray kept in full play during the operation and dressing. Precautions were also taken to minimise bleeding by the use of an elastic bandage before the operation and an elastic cord encircling the neck of the tumour during it, the latter being held back in most cases by being attached by means of rapes to a waist- belt. The penis and testes were exposed and isolated in the usual manner and the mass removed by circular incision ; as much skin as was really sound being left at the sides. In all cases the raphe was freely removed, because experience has shown that it is peculiarly prone to undergo thickening. In one case of this series (a) the skin of the penis was not removed because it had under- gone no thickening. In decorticating the penis care is taken to remove every scrap of integument including the lining membrane of the preputial cavity. In one case this was left, and underwent cedematons thicken- ing. In all cases the tunica vaginalis was opened, unless adherent from previous inflammation naturally occurring or artificially induced This step is necessary in order to prevent future hydrocele The membrane was pared off to within a quarter of an inch of its reflection from the surface of the testis on one side and the epididymis on the other. This collar is left for the purpose of stitching. This is accomplished in the following way A needle is threaded with carbolised catgut, the testes are sewn together by continuous suture by means of the collar of tunica vaginalis left attached to them, care being taken to leave the epididymis outside. The outer rim is then sewn to the surface of the peri- naeal wound Latterly I have found it best to attach the inner rims to the centre of the perinseal tissue and( 31 ) leave the out rims free. In a certain number of the cases rectangular flaps were cut from the skin of the thigh, and these were transplanted over the testes and attached to each other by continuous catgut suture (cases b to e), leaving a triangular wound on the thigh to heal by granulation. In other cases pockets were constructed for the accommodation of the testes by following the deep layer of the superficial perinseal fascia down to the arch of the pubis. The lateral flaps so formed are dragged by continuous catgut suture over the tes’es and the edges brought within an inch or so of each other in the middle line. This is the plan I invariably adopt now. By either method the testes are securely fixed in proper position, and covered either partially ar entirely by skin. When the cords are long or voluminous, as they often are in cases complicated with hydrocele or haematocele, they are simply left to form a loose mass at the root of the penis. When these various steps are completed the wound is carefully washed with al—20 carbolic lotion and dressed A strip of boracic gauze (gauze spread thinly with boracic ointment) is firsr, wound round the root of the penis in order to pre- vent its becoming imbedded. The body of the organ is then clothed with another strip Pieces of the same mate- rial are then applied to the surface of the testes. Over these are applied layers of carbolic gauze secured in position by a gauze bandage. A piece of waterproof paper envelopes the whole, and the dressings are finally secured by a bandage encircling the thighs and pubis and crossing over the perniaeum, and thus securing the close application of the borders of the dressing to the wound. The dressings are changed every day for the first fortnight or three weeks, then every second or third day according to the amount of discharge. When cases are thus treated the process of repair takes place in the following manner. The wound is filled with lymph( 32 ) which infiltrates the cords and causes them to swell some- what. When the cords are long and voluminous a tumour of considerable size forms at the root of the penis. The testes remain embedded in their pockets without any per- ceptible change except that all spaces between and around them are filled with lymph. The sutures are embedded in this material which forms a putty-iike cement, filling up the wound from edge to edge and presenting a straw-coloured surface marbled with blood clots. In a week or 10 days this becomes vascularized, shreds of lytni>h peel off nd the surface becomes red and granular. The mass now undergoes rapid absorption. Cicatriza- tion commences at the edge and rapidly extends from every side towards the root of the penis. The testes are covered in with skin, and finally a cicatricial circle ascends from the root of the penis and descends from the corona glandis, and in about 6 weeks the whole is covered. During the process it is important to prevent the penis being drawn into the cicatrizing mass. This may be done by diligently keeping the root free and perhaps snipping the granulations through on its under surface if they threaten to retract the organ too much. No pus formation occurs if the wound remains aseptic, and putrefaction is very rarely perceptible, If any sign of it becomes evident the free use of tincture of iodine suffices to extirpate it. Of this series of cases only one died of tetanus which supervened while the wound was in process of normal (aseptic) repair. The average weight of the tumours was 1 lb 6 oz., and the mean period of detention in hospital 64 days. The plan of operation and dressing adopted in these cases results in a great saving of suffering, constitutional and local, obviates all offensive odour, diminishes mor- tality and reduces the period of detention in hospital. 2. The second series (?*—s) of 6 cases include those in which large hydroceles and hmmatoceles were complicat-( 33 ) ed with hypertrophy of the scrotal integument, the skin of the penis remains healthy. These were treated by liberal removal of the redundant and thickened scrotum '■> isolation of the testes, removal of superfluous tunica> stitching of the testes together and of the remains of the scrotum over them. This was done under antiseptic precautions, and in 4 of the cases repair took place by vascularization and organization of effused lymph as in the first series. The period of repair was shorter, averaging 45 days. In one of the cases which putrefied tetanus occurred and proved fatal, and the same disease carried off another case in which aseptic repair was pro- gressing satisfactorily. In the other septic case repair was slower than in the aseptic. 3. In the 2 cases complicated with hernia (t and u) in addition to the ordinary operation described above the sac was amputated after catgut ligature of its neck and the canal olosed by the same material. Fatal septic poisoning occurred in one case after putrefaction had invaded the wound. The other, in which castration of one testicle was performed, made a satisfactory and complete recovery. 4. The last series of 2 cases (v and w) supply an illus- tration of a disease which is occasionally met with in India, namely serpigenous or lupoid ulceration of the genital^. The process commences with a venereal sore (chancroid) ; from this as a centre or starting point or from a bubo resulting from it, ulceration gradually and very slowly spreads. The skin becomes tuberculated, the neoplasm breaks down and a circle of ulcer results) which is succeeded by an imperfect cicatrix- The scrotal and penile skin are destroyed, these organs get involved in a mass of cicatricial material and the ulceration spreads by circles and bays into the groins, thighs and buttocks Excision is the most easy and effective treat- ment, but scraping and the thorough use of strong( 34 ) caustics is also sufficient to extirpate the disease. In the cases on record the penis and testes were dissected out of the cicatricial mass, and treated on the same principles as after amiuitarion of a scrotal tumour]. b. Elephantiasis of the clitoris and labia.—Hindu female aet. 30 ; 2 years’ duration following syphilis, for which she was salivated. Preputium clitoridis formed ( a large pendulous mass about the size of an orange. Both labia majora and minora hypertrophied. All the hypertrophied tissue was removed, the clitoris being left behind, and the wound dressed with boracic ointment and a catheter retained permanently in. the bladder. Repair took place in 59 days. The parts removed weighed 8 ounces. 11. Inflammatory tumour of Mamma.—Mahomedan sweeper set. 22. Disease of 6 years’ duration. Resulted from an abscess. A sinus remained which obstinately resisted all efforts to closo it. The axillary glands o£ the right side were enormously enlarged, one of them had suppurated and burst and given rise to a sinus in the axilla. Mamma indurated and hypertrophied. As the patient’s health was suffering from the prolonged discharge and continued irritation, it was thought best to remove the whole mass. This was done antisepti- cally. A spiral wire drainage tube was found in the interior of the axillary sinus. The axillary glands were found to be undergoing caseation. The operation was a severe one, patient lost a good deal of blood. She suffered from severe shock from which she did not rally, and died 30 hours after the operation. 12. Excision of external and internal piles, (a.)—Maho. medan male tet. 50. Internal piles of 3 years’ duration ; bleeding and prolapsus. Very anaemic and feeble. Removed by clamp, scissors and cautery ; very little blood lost. Patient had constant, involuntary loose motions, and died of exhaustion in 3 days.( 35 ) (b.) Hindu male set. 55. External piles of 6 years’ duration. Bled after stool. In a sloughy condition. Removed radially by clamp, scissors and cautery ; morphia suppository inserted. Discharged in 20 days with a sound anus : no contraction or incontinence. (c.) Mahomedan female set. 55. External piles of 6 months’ duration associated with fissure. Piles removed with scissors and fissure divided. Discharged in 32 days quite cured. (d.) English male set. 39. External piles of 9 years’ duration, encircling anus and bleeding after stool. Re- moved in sections radially by clamp, scissors and cautery; suppository inserted. Operation followed by retention. Slight bleeding on 4th day. Discharged in 26 days after a satisfactory recovery. [Case a died of exhaustion due mainly to the disease. In the other three cases though the tumours were situat- ed outside the anal opening, the hsemorrhoidal swelling extended in ridges into the gut, and the clamp was made to embrace these prolongations ] V.—Lithotomy, a.—Hindu male set. 35. Symptoms of stone first noticed 25 days before admission. Had re- tention on the day preceding. Stone impacted in pros- tatic urethra. Extraction per urethram failing, peri- nseal section was performed ; calculus slipped back into bladder on trying to catch it. A lateral division of the prostate was made and a small uric calculus weighing 15 grains easily withdrawn. Discharged well in 23 days. b.—Mahomedan male, set. 35. First symptoms 5 months ago. Urine frequently stopped ; stream diminished ; stone felt in urethra. It could not be caught by urethral forceps, and median lithotomy was performed. A small phosphatic stone weighing 9 grains was extracted through the perinseal wound. Passed water entirely through urethra in 6 days, and was discharged in 22 days.( 36 ) c• Hindu male, rot. 5. Symptoms commenced when he was a year old : great urinary irritation and temporary obstruction occurred at intervals. A calculus discovered on sounding. Lateral lithotomy was performed and a uric stone weighing 120 grains extracted. Made water entirely through penis afb r 16 days, and was discharged in 23 days. Wound suppurated. 2. Lilhotrity. a.—Hindu male rot. 30. Symptoms of I5 year’s duration. A stone about 1^ inch in diameter was discovered on sounding. It was crushed on three successive occasions ; the intervals were 6 and 7 days. No attempt was made to evacuate by instruments. Chloro- form was given on the first occasion, but not on the last two ; very little irritation resulted from these operations, and he left hospital 7 days after the last crushing quite free of stone and in good health in every respect. b.—Hindu male rot. 45. Symptoms of one year’s duration. Passed a calculus 2 years ago. Stone small, and crushed at one sitting under chloroform. A little bleeding and irritation followed, but he left hospital in 5 days quite relieved of his symptoms. No stone could be detected on careful sounding. c —Mahomedan male rot. 33. Symptoms of 2 years’ duration ; patient labouring under phthisis ; small stone (probably phosphaticl detected. It was crushed on two occasions at 15 days’ interval. Slight irritation, but no bleeding followed the first operation. Left hospital 3 days after second crushing which was done without chloroform ; quite relieved. No sign of calculus detected by sound. [These operations were performed with Weiss's lithotrites (Thompson’s), Bigelow’s instruments not being available. Repeated crushings were resorted to ; under chloroform on the first occasions ; a fenestrated female blade being first used and then a solid one. In one case a single operation sufficed, in another a second and in( 37 ) if another a third was necessary. Great help was experienced from the finger in-recto which gives precision to the operation and guides the fragments into the grasp of the lithotrite], VII. I. Tracheotomy, a.—Hindu male set. 35. Laryn- gitis with oedema glottidis of 2 days’ duration ; dyspnoea extreme ; relieved at once by opening the windpipe. Left hospital quite recovered of both disease and wound in 35 days. [In the remaining four cases tracheotomy was performed as a preliminary to operations in the mouth and pharynx—(see V. 2. b., V 3. a., V. 3. h. (a)., and VIII. 2). In each of these cases great comfort and safety were secured by diverting the respiratory current from its usual route]. 2. Herniotomy, a.— With opening sac. (a.)—Hindu male aet. 38. Right inguinal hernia of 7 months’ duration. Irreducible for 58 hours before admission; size of foetal head; tense and painful. Ice applied and taxis tried without effect with and without chloro- form; vomiting, restlessness, feeble pulse, cold extremities, clammy perspiration. Operation performed 15 hours after admission. Sac exposed by oblique incision over exter- nal ring. Hernia could not be reduced ; sac laid open. Contained omentum and intestine. Latter could not be reduced till former was removed after ligature in sections with catgut. Contents of hernia then replaced in peritoneal cavity ; neck of sac tied with three loops of catgut; stump placed in inguinal canal ; body amputated. Pillars and sides of canal brought together over cord with 2 double catgut stitches ; ends left long for drainage. Skin wound brought together with iron wiro and horsehair. Operation performed with antiseptic precautions. Never rallied ; vomiting and symptoms of collapse became aggravated. Died of shock 8 hours after operation. (5). Mahomedan male mt. 45. Right oblique inguinal( 38 ) hernia (scrotal) of 10 years’ duration. Came down 8 hours before admission ; painful, tense and oedematous locally. Suffering from vomiting, tympanitis, hurried breathing, dry coated tongue and symptoms of collapse. Ice appli* ed for 3 hours and taxis tried under chloroform without effect. A small hydrocele was emptied and the hernial tumour punctured in 3 places, but it still resisted reduc- tion ; sac exposed and laid open. Ccecum found in a gangrenous state. It was opened and a large hmmatoma found in its interior ; on emptying this the gut returned. The edges of the opening were stitched to those of the ■wound and a boracic dressing applied. Patient became restless and suffered greatly from shock after the opera- tion : breathing hurried, pulse shnost imperceptible. Abdomen swelled and became tender. He died in 12 hours. b. Without opening sac. Hindu male set 30. Right inguinal hernia of 10 years’ duration: descended an hour before admission. Taxis with and without chloroform tried in vain ; opium enemata, and continuous application of ice employed for 5 hours with- out effect. Sac exposed ; stricture at external ring divid- ed ; contents returned without opening sac. Sac invagina- ted and secured in canal by catgut loop passed through abdominal wall opposite internal ring; pillars and sides of canal brought into contact with 3 strong catgut sutures ; ends left long for drainage ; skin wound stitched with horsehair. Restless and delirious during first night ; removed dressings and exposed wound. Had two motions containing blood. Scrotum swelled and suppurated ; counter-opening made through which in time a large mass of membranous slough ( ? the sac) was re- moved. Drainage tube passed through suppurating tract, which eventually granulated, the wound having been rendered aseptic by iodine injections. Discharged in 57 days, with depressed cicatrix at fundus of scrotum,( 39 ) which wag of natural size. Oval depressed cicatrix in groin. A large mass of indurated cicatricial material in canal and around cord. No hernial impulse nor des- cent. Apparently a thorough radical cure. 3. Operations for the radical cure of hernia, a. Wood's operation, (a).—English seaman set. 47. Eight oblique inguinal hernia of 17 years’ duration ; ring ad- mitted 3 fingers. Wood’s operation performed antisepti- cally. Kemained in hospital 132 days. Hernia returned ; canal contracted and truss more effective. (6.)—European seaman set. 40. Right oblique inguinal hernia of 15 days’ duration ; ring very wide. Wood’s operation performed antiseptically. Left hospital in 27 days apparently cured. 6. Antiseptic operation with catgut. (a )—European male set. 50. Right oblique inguinal hernia of 6 years’ duration, caused by a fall. Command- ed by a truss till the day before admission, when it de- scended and could not be got back. Was reduced in hospital after application of ice. Ring admitted three fingers. Habits intemperate; suffered from chronio bronchitis. Kept under observation for 20 days. Rupture descended on slightest provocation, and was not control- led by truss. Was anxious for radical cure. Operation performed under strict antiseptic precautions ; neck of sac exposed by dissection and tied at internal ring by catgut ligature. Pillars and sides of canal brought together by double catgut ligature ; ends left long for drainage. Had strong reaction. Became delirious and passed water in- voluntarily, soaking dressing ; wound did well for 4 days then gaped, became sloughy and putrid ; diffuse suppura- tion spread down into the scrotum and between the abdominal muscles. Some redness observed on right buttock : got high fever with delirium, vomiting, diarrhoea and great prostration. Lung symptoms observed a few( 40 ) days before death. Died exhausted 8 days after opera- tion. Secondary abscesses found in lungs ; no peritonitis. Sac not inflamed ; neck impermeable ; ligature imbedded in lymph. (6.)—Hindu male aet. 30. Eight oblique inguinal hernia (bubonocele) ; occurred 5 days ago in a street row. Pain- ful swelling of the size of a hen’s egg suddenly formed in groin ; was reduced soon after. King dilated ; dis- tinct impulse on coughing. Cord exposed by dissection ; no sac found ; pillars and sides of ring united by three double catgut ligatures. Operation performed antisep- tically. Wound remained sweet and healed by first intention in a week. Left hospital 43 days after opera- tion ; ring contracted round cord. Considerable cicatri- cial thickening ; no impulse. Cicatrix linear ; depressed in centre and adherent to cicatricial mass. (c.)—Hindu male ret. 35. Right oblique inguinal hernia (scrotal) of 2 years’ duration. Painful and irreducible on admission, but went back after 6 hours’ application of ice. Ring admitted 4 fingers. Operation performed with strict antiseptic precautions 2 days after admission. Cord exposed by dissection ; neck of sac isolated and tied with two catgut ligatures at a short distance from each other. Pillars and sides of ring brought together by 2 double cateut threads, ends left long for drainage. Operation succeeded by tympanitis which lasted for a few days. Wound remained sweet till 5th day, when some putrid pus escaped on pressure. Became aseptic on 13tli day after diligent antiseptic treatment. Healed mostly by first intention. Patient left hospital 31 days after operation ; ring firmly contracted round cord ; no impulse. Sound linear cicatrix in groin. (d.)—European (English) male ast. 39. Right oblique ineuinal hernia (scrotal) of 14 years’ duration. Rupture frequently came down in spite of truss. Ring and canal admitted 2 fingers. Cord exposed by dissection. Sac( 41 ) invaginated and secured by loop passed through abdo- minal wall a little above and outside of site of internal ring ; pillars and sides of canal brought together by 2 strong catgut ligatures ; ends left long for drainage. No fever or peritoneal irritation. Wound healed by first intention. Drain came away on 12th day ; wound completely healed 4 days afterwards, Left hospital 91 days after operation. Ring closed and firmly adherent to cord. Canal occupied by indurated mass. No impulse nor descent. (e.)—European male set. 32. Left oblique inguinal hernia of one year’s duration (bubonocele). Rupture descended on standing. Ring admitted two fingers. Cord exposed by dissection ; no sac found ; veins of cord varicose ; tied with two catgut ligatures at i he interval of one inch ; pillars and sides of canal brought together by 2 double catgut ligatures, ends left long for drainage. No fever or peritoneal irritation. Wound healed by first intention. Catgut drain came away in 10 days. Left hospital 13 days after operation. Seen a few weeks afterwards. A hard mass bulged through the canal on coughing (epiplocele) ; obliged to wear a truss. (/.)—Hindu male set. 14. Left oblique inguinal hernia (scrotal) of 12 years’duration (qy. Infantile). Descend- ed on the slightest exertion. Ring and canal very large, admitting three fingers. Cord exposed by dissection ; cremaster muscle hypertrophied ; neck of sac isolated ; tied in two places by stout catgut thread and divided between. Stump reduced into canal, sac left in scrotum. Wound remained sweet for two days, then became putrid and suppurated ; sloughing cellulitis extended into ab- dominal wall and scrotum. Sac suppurated and required free incision. Considerable constitutional disturbance ac- companied these processes. Wounds finally healed soundly by granulation. Left hospital 93 days after operation with a depressed linear cicatrix in left groin. Canal( 42 ) closely adherent to cord ; no impulse or descent. Scrotum of natural size. (g.) Hebrew male act. 50. Left oblique inguinal hernia (scrotal) ; underwent operation for its radical cure 20 years ago. Remained well for 4 or 5 years, then returned. Tumour very large ; canal very wide ; scrotum very voluminous ; truss ineffective. Cord exposed by dissection. Sac separated from cord ; neck tied with three catgut loops and body amputated. Stump reduced into canal and pillars, &c., brought together by 3 double cat- gut threads, ends left long for drainage. Had tympanitis without fever for a few days ; wound remained aseptic and healed by first intention. Reparative process slow. Left hospital 68 days after operation with a depressed cicatrix in the groin ; canal closed ; no impulse or tendency to descent. (/j.)—Eurasian male mt 38. Right oblique inguinal hernia of one year’s duration. Operated on twice by Wood’s method [vide precis of 1880, VI. 3, (cl.) (e.)] De- scended a third time soon after the last operation (perform- ed on 20th June 1881). Re-admitted 21st March 1882. Sac exposed by dissection, separated from cord, invagi- nated and retained in canal by catgut loop passed through abdominal wall opposite internal ring. Pillars and sides of canal brought together by double catgut sutures, ends left long for drainage. Operation perform- ed under strict antiseptic precautions ; wound remained aseptic. Had some tympanitic distension but no fever. Healed by first intention. Left hospital in 56 days ; no hernial descent. Ring contracted round cord. Some impulse felt on coughing. It has been ascertained that the hernia returned after he left hospital. [These records contain notes of 14 cases in which operations were performed for the radical cure of ob- lique inguinal hernia. Two of them were cases of scrotal tumour [V. 10. a. (t) and («)] in which in addition to( 43 ) the removal of the tumour, the sac of the hernia was ligatured at the neck, the fundus amputated and the pillars and sides of the canal brought together by strong catgut sutures. In one castration was performed on the same side in consequence of accidental wound of the spermatic artery. One of these cases died of septicae- mia due to putrefaction of the external wound ; the peritoneum was found healthy and neck of the sac in process of obliteration on post-mortem examination. In the second case a satisfactory radical cure was obtained. Two were cases of herniotomy for strangulation. [VII. 2. a (a.) and &.] in one of which a large mass of omentum was removed after ligature in sections, the sac dissected off the cord, neck tied and the pillars, &c., brought together. The hernia had been down for 58 hours, patient was in a state of collapse, and died in 8 hours of shock and exhaustion. In the other after reduc- tion of the hernia without opening the sac, this was in- vaginated and held in the canal by a catgut loop passed through the abdominal wall; the pillars, &c., being brought together by 3 strong catgut loops. Suppuration occurred in the scrotum requiring free counter-opening ; the sac came away in the form of a slough through this opening, and the patient made a good recovery with radical cure of his hernia. In two cases [VII. 3. a (a) and (5) Wood’s wire oper- ation was performed with apparent radical cure in one instance and benefit in the other ; the canal being con- tracted and a truss rendered more effective. In the remaining 8 cases more direct measures were resorted to wittx a view to obliteration of the sac cavity and approximation of the canal walls. In two cases of this series (b) and (ej—after expos- ing the cord by direct dissection, dividing its coverings and examining the canal no sac could be found, the pillars were brought together by catgut ligatures on( 44 ) Wood’s principle. In one a radical cure was obtained. In another a bubonocele was discovered on subsequent examination. In this last case varicose veins of the cord were tied with catgut and a cure of a varicocele effected. In two others (cl) and (h) the sac was exposed by dissection, invaginated into the canal, held in that position by a catgut loop and the pillars, &c., brought together. In both aseptic repair took place rapidly and a radical cure was apparently accomplished. In another case (c) the neck of the sac was dissected from the cord, tied in two places and leftm situ, the pillars, &c., being secured by catgut. In this case also a satisfactory re- sult was obtained. In two cases (a) and (b) the neck of the sac was isolated, tied in two places and divided, the stump being reduced into the canal and the body of the sac left in the scrotum, the pillars, &c., being subse- quently brought together. In one case putrefaction invaded the wound, sloughing cellulitis extended into the abdominal wall, and death took place in 12 days from pyeemia. In the others a scrotal abscess formed, but a radical cure resulted. In the last case (g), the sac was dissected out in toto, the neck tied and the rest removed. In this case aseptic repair occurred and a radical cure was effected. This is the operation which I now invariably perform, and it seems to me to be the most promising. It combines—1, an assurance of obli- teration of the sac ; 2, occlusion of it at the internal ring ; 3, plugging of the canal from within ; and 4, approximation of the sides of the canal after the manner of Wood. It secures all the advantages of Wood's operation with greater precision and accuracy, inasmuch as every- thing is done under the eye ; it removes the two great disadvantages of Wood’s operation, namely uncertainty regarding the treatment and fate of the .sac and invagination of structures from without, which have a constant tendency to be pulled out; and it( 45 ) provides a solid plug from within which assists in closing and corking the canal, and must materially aid in preventing subsequent descent. I have performed a number of operations of this kind since the close of the year which I shall relate and discuss in the precis for 1882. Of the whole 14 cases, 3 died of the causes above specified ; 9 presented every indication of radical cure, and 2 resulted in a condition of parts more favourable for the effectiv e application of a truss.] 4. For Fistula in A no. a.—Hindu male ret. 40 ; 7 years’ duration ; 3 external and one internal opening ; external piles ; fistula laid open and piles removed by scissors. Left hospital quite cured in 18 days. b. —Hebrew male aet. 46. History of rectal trouble of one year's duration ; discharge of pus with every motion and much pain. Hard obscurely fluctuating swelling over right ischio-rectal fossa. This was laid open and an abscess was found which communicated with the rectum by a small aperture. An operation was performed as for fistula. Considerable haemorrhage ensued during next 12 hours. The wound granulated kindly but slowly. Kecovery delayed by formation of an abscess on under surface of urethra. It was laid freely open and healed rapidly. Discharged in 43 days. c. —Hindu male ast. 45. An indurated brawny track extended from the rectum across each gluteal region. It was riddled with sinuses starting from a strictured part of the gut about 2 inches from the verge of the anus. History of syphilis. All the fistulae were freely laid open. They healed by granulation. The calibre of the rectum was restored by bougies and patient left hospital in 171 days, cured both of fistulae aud stricture, no incontinence. 5. Perinceal Section, a.—Hindu male aet. 28. A boatman. 1 Fell on a pole some days before admission and lacerated his ■ urethra ; perinaeum swollen hard, tense ; penis cedematous;( 46 ) bladder distended. Free opening made in the middle line of the perinasum ; floor of urethra found extensively destroyed ; wound sloughy ; patient in a state of prostra- tion, with diarrhoea and hiccup : this lasted for about 10 days. The wound cleaned and contracted, and the gene- ral condition improved. A sinus extending towards the rectum had to be slit open. The perinreal fistula remain- ing widely open, a plastic operatiou was performed 97 days after the perineal section. Flaps were made at the sides of the opening and brought together by horse- hair stitches. This reduced the opening to a very small size. A No. 12 catheter was passed every few days, and the most of the [urine passed by urethram. He became impatient of treatment, and left hospital 20 days after the last operation. b. Hindu male ret. 20. Ruptured his urethra 2 days before admission by falling on an iron rod. Blood passes from the urethra, and the perinseum is hard, tense, tender and swollen. Free incision made in the middle line, clots cleared out, No. 10 catheter passed into bladder and wound dressed with boracic gauze. The most of the urine at first passed through the wound which granulated and contracted. As it contracted a larger proportion, in 23 days the whole passed per urethram. Left hospital 26 days after the operation. c. Hindu male act. 30. Urinary fistula in left groin consequent on an abscess in the left inguinal region, opened 1^ month before admission ; perinasum painful, swollen and fluctuating. Incised in middle line. A large quantity of pus escaped ; urethra incised to extent of ftli in. Inguinal fistula gradually closed and then the peroneal. A full sized catheter was passed every third day, and he left hospital in 72 days without either stricture or fistula. [The fistula in this case was evi- dently due to pelvic cellulitis caused by urinary abscess forming behind the triangular ligament.]( 47 ) d. Hindu male set. 30. Ruptured his urethra by falling on a bamboo from a height of 6 or 7 feet about 29. hours before admission. A swelling formed in the perinseum and retention occurred, which was relieved by a catheter through which bloody urine passed : this was retained for 10 hours and then the perinseum was laid open in the middle line. The urethra wa3 found to be much tom. The perinaeal wound gradually contracted and finally healed. A full sized catheter was passed every third day. He remained in hospital 59 days. No con. stitutional disturbance. e. Hindu male set 35. Had gonorrhoea 5 years ago ; fresh attack two months ago, succeeded by pain and difficulty in micturition. While straining to make water on the day of admission felt something give way and perinaeum and buttocks swelled. Presented symptoms of shock. Free incision made in middle line of perinasum and into left ischio-rectal fossa ; pus and sloughs issued freely from both incisions. Wound cleaned in a week. Urine passed both ways—through penis and wound for 20 days, then through penis only. Left hospital in 46 days quite cured ; a full sized catheter was passed every third day to secure patency of urethra. /. Hindu male ret. 45. Gonorrhoea 12 years ago; perinseal abscess 5 months ago, succeeded by fistula. Had 3 fistulous openings in perinseum through which urine issued. Tight stricture in the region of the bulb. Catheters 1 to 4 passed on day of admission ; Nos. 3 to 6 in 6 days, and Nos. 5 to 8 in 6 days more. This operation was followed by much bleeding. The bladder became greatly distended with clots. The perinseum was laid open freely in the middle line and No. 8 catheter intro- duced into the bladder through the wound ; bleeding continued and patient died 10 hours after the operation of exhaustion. U- Eurasian male set. 24, Fell on a fence which he( 48 ) was trying to jump and ruptured liis urethra. Passed blood per urethram. Perinaeum tense and swollen, laid open freely in the middle line ; a large cavity containing fluid and clotted blood found. No. 10 catheter passed into the bladder : urethra badly torn. Arterial bleeding continued and a catgut ligature was passed round the internal pudic with a needle ; wound plugged with lint steeped in Tinct. Fer. sesquichlor. on account of oozing. The wound granulated and closed slowly. Patient was discharged quite cured in 54 days. A full sized ca- theter was passed occasionally. : h. Eurasian male ast. 40. History of chancre and gonor- rhoea and perinaeal abscess of 5 days’ duration. Free opening made in middle line of perinaeum ; wound healed in 23 days. Full size catheter passed every 2 or 3 days. 6. Incisions for hydrocele, a.—Hindu male set 45. Large double hydrocele of 7 years’ duration. An opening was made into each with antiseptic precautions and a drainage tube inserted. That on right side was removed after 6 days, but was reinserted in 22 days owing to re-accumulation of fluid in the tunica. It was finally re- moved in 21 days, the cavity closing up as it was gradual- ly shortened. The tube on the left side was retained for a month, being gradually shortened as the cavity became shallow. On both sides a radical cure was obtained. Bemained in hospital 63 days. b.—Hindu male ret. 40. Large hydrocele of left side, of 6 years’ duration ; became inflamed 6 days before admis- sion in consequence of injury; turbid serum issued through canula. An opening was made into the tunica under antiseptic precautions and a tube inserted. The scrotal swelling subsided at once. The tube was withdrawn in 5 days, the wound having apparently filled up with lymph. Two days afterwards shivering and fever took place, and fluctuation was again noticed. The tunica was laid open freely and dressed with plugs of( 49 ) boracic gauze. The opening healed by granulation and a satisfactory cure was obtained in 35 days. c. East Indian male jet. 38. Hydrocele of left side, of one year’s duration, which became inflamed a week before admission. Turbid serum removed by tapping. In a fortnight re-accumulation took place and the tunica was laid open and its cavity dressed with boracic gauze invaginated into it and plugged with carbolic gauze. It healed by granulation. A hydrocele of the right tunica was subsequently tapped and injected with iodine. Remained in hospital 66 days. 7. Incision for hcematocele. a.—Mahomedan male ret 50. Hjematocele of one month’s duration, consequent on unskilful tapping of a hydrocele. Incised and drainage tube inserted in the first instance. This measure failing to empty it, in three days, it was laid freely open, contents thoroughly removed and the cavity dressed with boracic gauze invaginated and stuffed with carbolic gauze. Healed by granulation in 38 days. b.—Hindu male ®t. 22. Putrid liaematocele of right side ; laid open freely ; washed with carbolic lotion and dressed the same as last case ; tunica about |th in. thick ; contained putrid grumous material. Discharge became sweet under assiduous use of antiseptics and cavity was obliterated. Wound healed in 46 days. 8. Large Abscesses. a. Iliac abscesses. (a)—Hindu male jet. 22. Left side ; 20 days’ duration ; high fever. Opened antisep- tically below Poupart’s ligament ; \\ pint of pus gush- ed out ; fever subsided in 24 hours. Two drainage tubes inserted—one beiug withdrawn in 2 days and the other gradually shortened and finally removed in 25 days. Discharged in 55 days quite recovered. (6.)—Hindu female jet. 40 ; right side, 2 months’ duration ; opened antiseptically below Poupart’s liga-( 50 ) rnent, about half a pint of pus removed ; a drainage tube inserted, shortened in 6 days and withdrawn in 12. Discharged in 61 days quite well. (c.)—Mahomedan male set. 30 ; right side, 2 months’ duration. Opened antiseptically below Poupart’s ligament by Hilton’s method ; about 1£ pint of pus gushed out; 2 tubes inserted,—one removed next day, the other in 11 days. Left hospital in 38 days. (d.)—Hindu male set. 16 ; left side, one month’s dura- tion. Opened antiseptically below Poupart’s ligament; serum and lymph issued ; no pus ; drainage tube inserted. Discharge continued serous and aseptic ; tube removed in 7 days ; wound healed and swelling disappeared. Discharged in 3 days. [This case presented all the symptoms of an abscess— tense, tender swelling in iliac fossa, fluctuation, permanent flexion of hip joint, &c. The swelling was undoubtedly inflammatory but had not undergone suppuration.] (e.)—East Indian female ret. 55 ; left side ; 12 days’ duration. Opened below Poupart’s ligament ; tube re- moved in 6 days. Dis diarged in 41 days. (/I)—European male ret 40; right side; 26 days’ duration. Two drainage tubes inserted,—one removed in 2 days and the other in 13 days. Discharged in 29 days. (<7.)—European male ast. 15 ; left side ; 15 days’ dura- tion. Opened antiseptically below Poupart’s ligament ; tube removed in 8 days. Wound healed in 19 days. (h.)—Hindu female set. 30. Large sinus of 2 years’ duration in left gluteal region, abscess in right iliac fossa. Caries of lumbar vertebrae ; history of syphilis and salivation. Abscess opened above Poupart’s ligament ; putrid pus issued ; drainage tubes inserted in sinuses and abscess. Discharge continued profuse and putrid and patient sank from exhaustion 12 days after the opening of the abscess. [This was a case of psoas rather than iliac abscess.( 51 > Pas had found its way through the greater sacrcr-sciatic foramen into the left gluteal region. The putrid condi- tion of the abscess on the right side was evidently due to communication with the putrid sinuses on the left side.] East Indian male aet. 13. Right side ; 2 months’ duration; opened antiseptically below Poupart’s ligament; and 3 drainage tubes inserted,—one tube removed.in one day, the second in 3 days, and the third in 10 days. Discharged in 61 days. [The result in all these cases except (h), which was a case of putrid caries of the lumbar vertebrae giving rise to double psoas abscess, was eminently satisfactory. On incision both local and constitutional distress rapidly Subsided; no sinus resulted in any of the cases, the abscess cavity filled up in from 10 to 15 days and the remainder of the stay in hospital was occupied by repair of the skin wound and absorption of the effusion.] b. Fsoas abscess.—Hindu male set. 30. Spinal curvature with fluctuating swellings in lumbar and iliac regions ; abscess cavity reached by incision under antiseptic pre- cautions beneath Poupart’s ligament. 2 drainage tubes inserted,—one withdrawn in 2 days and the other gra- dually shortened. Discharge became scanty and serous. Patient left the hospital contrary to advice in 144 days, greatly improved in general health and able to walk, without discomfort. A small sinus exuding a slight serous discharge still existed in the groin. c. Pelvic abscess.—Hindu female set. 45. Symptoms of one month’s duration ; fluctuating swelling detected in recto-vaginal septum. It was punctured per vaginam and about a pint of matter withdrawn ; canula retained, for 24 hours ; matter continued to pass per vaginam for a week. The swelling gradually subsided and she was discharged well in 20 days. (cZ.) Scrotal Abscesses, (a.)—Hindu male set. 55 ; right side ; 7 days’duration, accompanied with high fever, great( 52 ) infiltration of scrotum and cord ; obscure fluctuation pos- teriorly ; laid open antiseptically and drainage tube in- serted. Recovered in 18 days. (b) .—Hindu male aet. 25. Right Bide ; 8 days’ dura- tion ; hydrocele on same side ; abscess opened antisep- tically and hydrocele tapped. Recovered in 30 days. (c) .—Hindu male rnt. 37. Erysipelatous inflammation of scrotum cord and abdominal wall ; of 12 days’ duration, accompanied with high fever and marked prostration. As soon as evidence of the existence of pus was obtained a free opening was made in the scrotum and above Poupart’s ligament antiseptically and drainage tubes in- serted. The infiltration slowly subsided and apertures took a long time to heal. Discharged in 40 days. (d) .—Chinaman set. 43. Abscess of left tunica vagi-' nalis, of 15 days’ duration. Opened antiseptically and1 drainage tube inserted. Recovered in 24 days. ' (e).—Mahomedan male set. 45. Abscess of right tunica vaginalis, of 22 days’ duration, treated by free incision and drainage under antiseptic precautions. Recovered in 26 days. [Cases (a) and (c) illustrate a condition which is not uncommon during and after the rains. A patient has, perhaps after malaise, a severe rigor followed by fever, during whose development rapid infiltration of the cord and scrotum of one or both sides occurs. The tunica is apt at the same time to undergo rapid distension. The infiltration may implicate the abdominal wall or extend between or beneath the abdominal muscles in the areolar planes. In rare cases peritonitis may occur. The fever pursues a remittent course, and is apt to be very high in range and prostrating in effect; cases of this sort often prove fatal by blood poisoning in a few days. The swelling may resolve on subsidence of the fever in a week or 10 days, more frequently suppuration of a diffuse kind results, the pus being of( 53 ) an ichorous or sanious kind and peculiarly prone to putrefy. Antiseptic precautions, free opening and efficient drainage are peculiarly valuable in this class of .cases. Cases (d) and (e) were inflamed hydroceles treated by free evacuation and drainage.] e. Abscess of abdominal wall.—Hindu female set. 60. Abscess of right iliac rigion following injury of 15 days’ duration. Had opened spontaneously; cavity full of blood clot; aperture enlarged, thrombi removed and drainage tubes inserted. Healed in 23 days. /. Gluteal abscesses. (a)—Hindu male set. 32. Eight side; 25 days’ duration ; whole extremity cedematous. Opened antiseptically behind trochanter, 32 oz. of pus escaped. 3 drainage tubes inserted in different directions. The swelling of the leg subsided and repair was in satisfactory progress when on the 16th day the wound became unhealthy, some constitutional disturbance oc- curred and the leg swelled again. The knee joiut also filled with fluid. Bagging of matter occurred on the front of the thigh requiring free counter-opening. The swelling of the limb and joint now disappeared and com- plete recovery took place after a stay in hospital of 61days. (b.)—Hindu male set. 25. Right side ; 3 days’ duration. Opened antiseptically, 22 oz. of pus escaped ; 2 tubes inserted,—one withdrawn in 2 and the other in 7 days. Discharged in 19 days. (c.)—Hindu male set. 12. Left side, followed an injury sustained a week ago. Opened antiseptically, 8 oz. of pus ; drainage tube inserted, withdrawn in 8 days. Another abscess formed in front of the thigh from which 4 oz. of pus were let out. It healed rapidly. Discharged in 44 days. (d.)—Hindu male 1| year old. Sustained a fall two months ago. An abscess formed in the buttock and thigh of right side. Latter opened 5 days before admission without antiseptic precautions. A long putrid sinus( 54 ) resulted. Gluteal abscess opened antiseptically ; tubes inserted both in sinus and abscess. Was doing well till the 7th day when cedematous swelling of the limb occurred with fever and aphthous ulceration of lips, tongue and mouth. Diarrhoea followed and the child died 18 days after operation. g. Abscess of arm.—European male aet. 21. Abscess of right arm of 3 weeks’ duration following bruise. Open- ed antiseptically and tube inserted ; tube withdrawn on 2nd day. Abscess healed in 5 days. h. Abscess of thigh, fa).—Native Christian female set 30. Deep seated abscess of front of right thigh, of 17 days’ duration. Skin divided by scalpel and abscess reached through vastus by director ; 2 tubes inserted,—one removed in 3 days and the other in 11. Left hospital in 34 days. (&).—Hindu male set. 24. Deep seated abscess of front of left thigh opened by scalpel and finger ; 2 tubes inserted,—one removed in 13 and the other in 15 days. Discharged in 28 days. (c).—Hindu male set. 35. Erysipelatous swelling of left thigh, of 10 days’ duration. Pus being detected deep- ly by a fine trochar, a free opening was made through which some sanious matter issued ; 2 tubes inserted. The erysipelas became more intense and symptoms of pros- tration occurred on 5th day, on the evening of which patient died. (ch)—Hindu male set. 30. Abscess of right thigh following lymphangitis ; opened antiseptically ; catgut drain inserted. Healed in 8 days. Discharged in 11 days. (e.)—Eurasian male mt. 19. Left thigh ; 3 days’ dura- tion ; diffuse ; opened antiseptically ; 2 drainage tubes inserted,—one withdrawn in 5 and the other in 13 days. Discharged in 30 days. {f.)—East Indian female set. 14. Left side, five days’ duration ; opened antiseptically. Healed in 39 days.( 55 ) (gj—Jewess ret. 29. Right side ; 14 days’ duration following lymphangitis ; opened antiseptically ; tube withdrawn in 9 days. Discharged in 16 days. (A.)—East Indian male set. 7. Left side ; one week’s duration ; situated in popliteal space; leg much swollen ; opened antiseptically ; cavity healed slowly ; knee joint somewhat contracted and had to be straightened by a MacIntyre splint; remained in hospital 103 days. (i.)—Hindu male ret. 40. Left thigh ; one month’s duration ; very large and deep; opened antiseptically through vastus externus ; 2 tubes inserted,—one removed in 5 days the other in 21 days. Discharged in 72 days. (j.)—East Indian male ret 45. Front of right thigh ; one month’s duration; consequent on injury. One tube inserted, bagging took place and a counter opening and second tube became necessary. Discharged in 36 days. (/r.)—European male ret 30. Right thigh ; history of lead poisoning ; wrist drop ; opened antiseptically and tube inserted ; removed in 3 days. Discharged in 15 days. [In several of these cases the matter formed in the loose cellular tissue surrounding the periosteum of the femur anteriorly and externally, and access could only be obtaiued to it through the vastus externus ; the fibres of the muscle were separated ny finger or direc- tor after the skin and fascia lata had been opened by knife.] i. Abscess of leg.—Hindu male ret 34 ; right leg ; 12 days’ duration ; whole leg swollen ; opened on inner side antiseptically ; tube inserted ; removed in 15 days. Discharged in 29 days. j. Abscess of liver, (a)—Hindu cook ret. 26. Hepatic symptoms of 3 months’ duratiou ; admitted with fluctua- ting swelling in epigastrium ; left lobe of liver enlarged. Opening made antiseptically and about one pint of hepatic pus let out, Two drainage tubes inserted. Discharge( 66 ) at first profuse and grumous, gradually became scanty and more tenacious and lymphy. Remained sweet for a fortnight and then became putrid ; vomiting, pain in the chest and prostration gradually supervened and he died of collapse in 30 days. The abscess was found to have eroded the left lobe of the liver deeply, and to have worked its way into the pericardium and stomach. (&.) Hindu male set 25. Symptoms of one month’s duration. Admitted with a fluctuating swelling in epigas- trium, to right of middle line ; opened antiseptically ; discharge at first purulent and then like prune juice ; tube removed aud cavity closed in 9 days. Symptoms of dysentery supervened and patient died of this disease 13 days after the opening of the abscess. k. Multiple abscess, (a.)—Hindu male set. 45. Had 5 abscesses in different parts of the body said to have succeeded a fall sustained two months ago. They were opened antiseptically as they matured. Discharged well in 33 days. (6.)—European male set. 10. Four large abscesses in different parts of the body. Patient in bad health, anae- mic and emaciated. They were opened antiseptically and healed kindly. Discharged in 18 days. [In all unbroken abscesses strict antiseptic precautions were adopted with very satisfactory result ; the cavity filled up with lymph as the tube was withdrawn. This generally occurred in from 7 to 14 days according to the size and depth of the abscess. The balance of the pe- riod of detention was required for repair of the skin wound. Bagging, counter openings and sinuses were a rare exception. Constitutional disorder disappeared as a rule ou the opening being made. In two of the fatal cases openings leading to putrid sinuses existed on •admission. In a third death was due to blood poisoning consequent on cellular erysipelas. In one of the perihe- patic abscesses putrefaction was apparently the cause( 57 ) of fatal extension and ulceration into pericardium and stomach. In the other liver case the abscess did well, but a very intractable attack of dysentery carried the patient off.] VIII. 1. Operation for Cicatrix after burns.—Hindu female mt. 2 months, was burnt three hours after birth in the left arm and hand. Elbow and wrist joint for- cibly flexed and fixed by cicatricial bands. These were divided transversely and the wounds thus made were stitched longitudinally. Flaps being formed by small cuts at the end of the transverse incision thus : The deformity was rectified in this manner. The opera- tion was performed antiseptically and boracic dressings and a splint applied. On the 2nd day there was a rise of temperature ; the flaps showed indication of sloughing. On the third day there was high fever with tympanitis and vomiting, and death took place from exhaustion. 2. Staphyloraphy.—Eurasian male set. 19. Congenital fission of soft palate in middle line. Pillars of fauces divided by scissors ; deep incision made on each side of CL( 58 ) cleft to paralyse tensor palati; edges pared and brought together by horse-hair sutures. Stitches removed in G, 7 and 11 days: result satisfactory. Bemained 20 days in hospital. 3. Harelip.—Both cases were single without any pala- tal or dental complication ; edges pared and brought to- gether by horsehair ; result satisfactory. 4. Tongue tie—Hindu male set. 26. Congenital; tongue atrophied ; articulation very defective ; frsenum divided by scissors and finger ; movements of tongue rendered freer. Mastication facilitated ; breech not improved. 5. Circumcision, a.—East Indian set. 14. Chancroid sores round preputial orifice ; phimosis. Prepuce removed, ulcers revealed on glans, they were touched with nitric acid. Stitches draged ; wound healed by granulation. Discharged in 34 days. b. —Eurasian set. 201. A similar condition similarly treated; healed by granulation in 30 days. Satisfactory result. c. —Eurasian set. 9. Congenital phimosis ; collection of smegma in preputial cavity ; balanatis and cedematou3 prepuce. Operation as in previous cases. Wound healed by granulation in 19 days. d. —Eurasian set 18. Condition similar to cases a and b ; similarly treated. Healed in 24 days. e—Similar condition treated in the same way ; healed satisfactorily in 31 days. [The mode of operating adopted in these cases was :— an oblique section of the prepuce and subsequent vertical section of its mucous membrane on each side of the glans, the edges of the latter being stitched to the skin edges by horse-hair sutures all round. The inflammatory infiltration of tissue caused these to drag in every instance. The result was, however, good in all the cases. A sufficient amount of prepuce remaining to cover tho corona and part of the glans surface.](( 59 ) IX. 1. Gf the 7 hydroceles tapped and injected 5 were filled with 2 drachms of tincture of Iodine diluted with an equal amount of water, and 2 with pure tincture. One operation sufficed for radical cure in each case. 2. Nerve-stretching.—Hindu set. 32; admitted with gan- giene of 2nd, 3rd and 4th toes of right foot following tingling and numbness 40 days before; whole foot much swollen. Sciatic nerve stretched below lower border of gluteus maximus. Wound healed under antiseptic treatment in 2 days ; swelling subsided quickly after the stretching ; line of demarkation formed and dead parts were gradually separated, the wound closing up by granulation leaving a serviceable foot. Eemained in hospital 70 days. General Remarks. 1. Death-rate.—The general death-rate, 15*2 per cent, takes an intermediate position between that of 1879, l8-5 and of 1880, 10#7. The rates are true and fairly com- parable, because the cases were treated to the end, and no case was removed from hospital in a dying state. The operations performed were also very much the same in number and kind. 2. Death causes.—These have been briefly indicated at page 113. In so far as they are capable of grouping the following statement represents them summarily :— Shock ... ... ... ... 5 Tetanus ... ... ... ... 4 Bowel complaints ... ... ... 3 Exhaustion ... ... ... ... 3 Septic disease... ... ... „. 7 Miscellaneous... ... ... ... 4, ... 26 The term shock is restricted to primary shock, caused by severe injury generally combined with some pre-existing debilitating cause. Exhaustion expresses a( GO ) later surrender of life due to nervous depression depen- dent on the effects of injury and disease separately or combined. The other terms used explain them- selves. 3. Antiseptics and hospitalism.—The antiseptic system has been practised as strictly and sedulously as possible during the year. Difficulties are encountered in an Indian hospital which tend to detract from the success of antiseptic surgery. The appliances are not so per- fect as in an English hospital ; the patients very rarely give intelligent assistance, and often defeat the sur- geon’s best efforts by incautious movements, pulling off and soiling dressings, &c., and the assistants are often unreliable—careless, hurried, superficial or dishonest. Still by persevering personal attention success can be secured in most instances, and there is nothing in the climate to render such success unattainable or even arduous, if only the system is thoroughly understood and conscientiously applied. The end in view, repair of injury by physiological process without the interven- tion of pathological or septic disturbance, can be attained in suitable cases just as well in India as in Europe, though perhaps for the reasons stated not so easily. It may be useful to examine the death causes above specified in detail with a view to discover how far they are due to the absence or failure of antiseptics. As regards the general behaviour of wounds the experi- ence of the year was favourable. No erysipelas, sloughing cellulitis or similar.wound disturbance prevailed. In none of the cases of shock could septic poisoning bo said to predispose or hasten the fatal event. In two cases the severity of the operation was solely responsible ; in one impaired health from long standing sinuses, in one previous haemorrhage, and in another strangulation of a hernia were undoubtedly predisposing causes. Of the 4 cases of tetanus, the disease arose in three( 61 ) patients whose wounds were quite aseptic, and in one whose wound was putrid. Of the bowel complaints, diarrhoea in one case appeared to be caused by imperfect reaction after a severe opera- tion ; in another case was associated with a large putrid sinus, and dysentery in a third case occurred in a patient with liver abscess which had undergone aseptic repair. In one of the cases exhaustion was due to paralysis and viseral sarcoma, in another to long continued hsemor- rhoidal bleeding, and in a third to putrid psoas abscess, admitted in that state. Of the 7 deaths from septic disease—all were asso- ciated with putrid wounds; and in 6 instances this condition succeeded operation. In one case, hernio- tomy, in which the bowel had become gangrenous, putrefaction was inevitable ; in another case it was for erysipelatous inflammation existing on admission that the knife was resorted to. These leave a balance of 4 deaths regarding which the question arises, whether, if putrefaction had not invaded the wounds, death would have occurred. I am inclined to think it would not. In none of the miscellaneous cases did putrefaction or septic absorption have anything to do with the result. On the whole the experience of the year is strongly in favour of strict antiseptic surgery and in support of the view that septic complications may be largely if not entirely prevented by the sedulous employment of antiseptic agents.Calcutta: Printed hy P, S. D’Rozai-io and Co. 12, Waterloo Street.2 Total ... 0 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS PERFORMED IN THE WARDS OF THE FIRST SUR- GEON, MEDICAL COLLEGE HOSPITAL, DURING THE YEAR 1882. By Surgeon-Major K. McLeod, A. M., M. D., F. R. C. S. E., Professor of Surgery, Calcutta Medical College. The table and notes which follow are in series with those published for 1879, 1880 and 1881 (vide Indian Medical Gazette, Vol. XV., pp. 92, 123 ; Vol. XVI., pp. 123, 145, and Vol. XVII., pp. 113 and 143.) The detailed histories from which the abstracts have been prepared were drawn up by Assistant-Surgeon Devendra Nath Day, m. b., for whose efficient aid I have much pleasure in again recording my deep obligations. Description of Operations. N umber of oper- ations. Died. /. Operations on the Eye and its appen- dages. 1. Excision of the eyelids for epithe- lioma 1 0 II. Operations on Arteries. 1. Ligature of—a. brachial artery for wound 1 0 b. radial 1 0( 2 ) 43 6 Total ... Description of Operations. Number of oper- ations. Died. III. Operations on Joints. i. Dislocation of hip joint reduced ... ^ 3 0 2. Extension of stiff knee joints 4 i1 3. Incision of knee joint 2 0 4. Excision of joints—a. elbow 2 0 b. hip 1 0 Total ... 12 1 IV. Operatiojis on Bones. 1. Wire^uturing of fractured patella 2 0 2. Gouging out of carious os calcis... 1 0 Total ... 3 0 V. A mputations. A.—For Injury. 1. Primary of four outer fingers ... 1 0 2. Secondary of thigh (Carden’s) ... 2 i2 3. Secondary of foot (Syme’s) 2 0 4. Secondary of arm 1 0 B.—For Disease. 6. For syphilitic caries—of leg 1 0 Total ... 7 1 VI. Removal of Tumours by excision. A.—Malignant. 1. Scirrhus of mamma ... I 0 2. Epithelioma—a. of lip 1 0 b. of larynx 1 0 B.—Non-malignafit. 3. Cystic of scalp 1 0 4. Molluscum of face ... 1 0 5./Cartilaginous ofneck... 3 Is 4. Fibroma of thigh 1 0 5. Elephantiasis—a. of scrotum ... 28 4* b. of labium 3 i6 6. Haemorrhoids, external and inter- nal ••• • • s ••• 3 0( 3 ) Description of Operations. Number of oper- ations. Died. VII. Removal of Calculi. x. Vesical, for—by lithotomy 4 0 2. „ „ lithotrity 1 0 Total ... 5 0 VIII. Removal of foreign bodies. 1. From nasal cavity r.. r 0 2. From urethra 1 0 Total ... 2 0 IX. Incisions. 1. Tracheotomy 1 0 2. Herniotomy 5 2s 3. For radical cure of hernia 13 V 4. For fistula in ano 3 0 5. Perinaeal section 4 0 6. For hgematocele 3 0 7. For recto-vaginal fistula 1 ip 8. For large abscesses ... 12 0 Total ... 42 4 X. Reparative Operations. 1. For cicatrix after burn 1 0 2. For hare-lip 2 0 3. For atresia oris 2 0 4. For restoration of lip 2 0 5. For phimosis—circumcision 6 0 6. For laceration of scrotum 1 0 Total ... M 0 XI. Operations not classed. 1. Nerve-stretching. 1 . 0 Total ... 132 12 Causes of death.—t—2 Shock. 3 Secondary haemorrhage. 4 a Diar- rhoea and pneumonia, b, c Tetanus, d Septicaemia and parotitis. 5 Sep- ticaemia and pneumonia. 6 a. Obstruction, Peritonitis, b Gangrene of bowel. 7 Gangrene. 8 Phthisis.( 4 ) The following abstracts of cases are arranged in accordance with the foregoing return :— /. i.—Excision of the eyelids for epithelioma.—Ma- homedan male, set. 35, disease of eight months’ duration ; commenced in the lower lid ; implicated the side of the nose and the left cheek; fungating ; has attained the size of an apple ; left eyeball displaced but healthy ; tumour slightly movable. Another hard lump in front of left ear, and another inside of left angle of lower jaw. Ablation of orbital tumour attempted. It was found to involve the inner and upper wall of the orbit ; extirpation impossible. No attempt made to remove the two other tumours. Cornea sloughed and eyeball col- lapsed. Cavity caused by removal, of tumour was filled up by granulation material. Disease recurred. Patient left hospital of his own accord 40 days after operation. No head symptoms. II. 1. Ligature of brachial artery for wound.— Hindu male, set. 35 ; severe wound of lower third of right arm caused by breaking of a bottle ; brachial artery, median nerve, median basilic vein, and part of biceps severed ; lost much blood. Wound en- larged, and both ends of brachial artery tied, two other vessels ligatured. Catgut drain inserted, wound stitched and dressed antiseptically. Suppuration took place and some sloughing ; but on separation of sloughs, healing by granulation ensued satis- factorily. Sensation of parts supplied by median nerve lost. Could hold a pen and write. Remained 77 days in hospital. 2. Ligature of radial artery for wound.—Maho- medan male, set. 30 ; wound of lower third of forearm caused by an axe ; much bleeding; wound enlarged, both ends of artery tied; wound stitched and dressed antiseptically. Healed by first intention. Patient left hospital in 4 days. III. 1. Dislocation of hip joint, a.—Hindu male, set. 10; left side; dorsal, of 7 days ’ duration,( 5 ) caused by a fall. Reduced by manipulation under chloroform. Patient left hospital same day. b. Hindu male, set. 35; left side; dorsal, one day’s duration ; caused by fall of a bale of jute on the back. Reduced by manipulation under chloro- form ; left hospital in 9 days. c. Hindu male, aet. 30 ; left side ; dorsal; of one day’s duration, caused by fall of a bale of jute on the back. Reduced by manipulation under chlo- roform. Left hospital in 15 days. [Both these accidents were caused by the same bale of jute. The reduction was effected by Dr. R. D. Murray, Resident Surgeon.] 2. Extension of stiff knee joint, a.—Hindu male, ast. 37 ; left knee joint; four months’ standing ; followed gonorrhoeal arthritis ; bent at a right angle. Straight- ened forcibly under chloroform and put on a Mac- Intyre splint; left hospital in 85 days with a straight but stiff joint. b. Hindu male, aet. 45 ; both knee joints affect- ed ; disease (syphilitic arthritis) of 8 months’ du- ration ; joints swollen and permanently flexed at an acute angle ; both forcibly stretched under chloro- form—right easily ; popliteal skin gave way when left was nearly straightened. Wound dressed anti- septica.lly and both limbs placed on MacIntyre splints. Patient detained in hospital 179 days. Left with straight but stiff limbs ; able to stand firmly and walk a little. c. East Indian male, set. 25 ; left side ; from go- norrhoeal inflammation of 7 months’ duration ; joint firmly flexed and patella fixed, forcibly extended under chloroform and put on a MacIntyre splint. Remained 89 days in hospital. Left with a straight limb ; knee joint admitted of some movement. d. Hindu male, set. 18. History of gonorrhoea, measles, fever, stricture, and urethral fever. Both knees have gradually become stiffened and bent f»*Am L.UL...11 -4 * 1 * .1 < ’.*• xt‘( 6 ) joints also flexed and stiff. Has large cicatrices of deep bed-sores on buttocks and heels. Is in very fe'eble health. Three days after admission the right knee was forcibly stretched under chloroform, and put upon a MacIntyre splint. Pulley and weight adapted to leg to maintain extension. This was followed by fever for two days. Got retention of urine which was relieved by catheter ; urethra found to be strictured and fully dilated. Nine days after admission (6 after the first operation), his health having apparently been restored, the left knee was similarly dealt with. This was followed by shock which proved fatal in io hours. On post-mortem examination, both knee joints were found to contain some blood mixed with synovia. Ecchymosis ex- isted around the joint. The popliteal vessels were uninjured. The cavities of the heart, which was flabby and dilated, were full of decolorized clot. The membranes of the brain were in a state of chronic thickening and congestion with effusion into the ventricles ; liver congested, spleen enlarged, kidneys undergoing contraction. [The extension of stiff joints in cases of fibrous ankylosis is a very safe and successful procedure. The stiffness may depend on a great variety of circumstances, and varies exceedingly in degree, and the treatment must be adapted accordingly. The cause may be outside of the joint or inside. If outside, it may depend (a) upon rigidly contracted muscles and prolonged recumbency, or (b) upon the result of inflammatory thickening of the fibrous textures surrounding the joint—the remains of a severe synovitis which has undergone resolution as far as the cavity of the joint is concerned; prolonged retention in a faulty position generally adding to the mischief, or (c) upon cicatrices the result of wound, or ulcer, or abscess. If within the joint, there are (d) fibrous adhesions between opposed /-3rHloirinr»m.- nr minnviiI qnrfnrrs. ihe cartilage or( 7 ) synovial membrane having undergone destruction. This condition may result from penetrating injury or inflammation, generally of a strumous kind, and is often the sequel of an open joint. In this case there is also generally thickening and contraction outside the joint as well. In case (a) stretching can generally be accomplished at once and to the full and without tearing. It is advisable to put the limb on a splint for a few days and then resort to regular passive movement. There is seldom, if ever, any irritation resulting from stretching in such cases. In case (b) the completeness of stretching will depend on the strength of the adhesions and the state of the skin. In some cases the joint can be fully stretched at once, in others the cure must be completed by the use of splints, weights, or elastic bandages. In all these cases there is tearing at the time, and more or less irritation for a few days after the operation. A second or third attempt may be made under chlo- roform and passive motion should be resorted to after rest. The treatment in case (c) will depend on the nature of the case, the position and extent of the cicatrix, &c. In case (d) more caution and time are required. They are amenable to mecha- nical extension, and some degree of movement can generally be restored. A more decided sensation of tearing is perceptible in these cases, and very often, especially in the case of the knee, a certain amount of dislocation results. Irritation of the joint is more pronounced in these cases, often requiring ice or lead. Perseverance in treatment however produces decided benefit, and even if movement is not restored, the joint can be placed in a more favourable position. In the case of joints which are the seat of actual disease, whether of an acute, sub-acute, or chronic kind, forcible stretching is to be avoided. The fore- going series presents two remarkable cases—one in which the popliteal skin gave way under excessive trac- tion ; antiseptic treatment was promptly adopted, and( 8 ) the case eventually did well. The other was a fatal case, death having been caused in a feeble unhealthy subject by shock resulting from forcible stretch- ing of the knee joint, the other joint having been similarly treated a few days previously with the result of producing a smart attack of fever. Both joints were found to contain bloody synovium, and ecchymoses were observed outside of them ; but no evidence of inflammation existed on either side.] 3. Incision of knee joint, (a).—Hindu male, set. 28, left knee; acute synovitis following chicken pox; the joint was enormously swollen, and on tapping it sero-purulent material issued in large quantity and the cavity collapsed. It re-accumulated in a few days, and a free incision was made under antiseptic precautions into the supra-patellar pouch. A drainage tube was inserted and an antiseptic dressing applied. No further accumulation occurred, and the symptoms, local and constitutional, prompt- ly subsided ; the tube was gradually shortened and finally removed in 18 days. He was discharged in 89 days with a useful joint. b. Hindu male, set. 25, sustained a compound fracture of the left leg, about 24 hours before ad- mission, by a fall on some bricks from a height of about 10 feet. The fracture was oblique and knee joint much swollen. The wound was dressed antisep- tically, but putrefaction supervened. He had great constitutional disturbance. Seven days after admis- sion the knee joint was tapped with a fine trochar and a quantity of sanguineous serum let out. Re-accumulation taking place in three days, it was freely incised above the patella and a drainage tube inserted : this gave great relief. Discharge from the wound remained sweet, and the tube was gradually withdrawn and wound allowed to close. Extensive suppurative cellulitis occurred up and down the limb requiring numerous counter-openings. Several pieces of necrosed bone had to be removed, but the( 9 ) wound eventually closed, and firm union took place, and the function of the limb was restored. He remained 298 days in hospital. 4. Excision of the elbow joint. (a).—Hindu male, ret. 37, sustained a severe compound com- minuted fracture of left elbow by a fall off a tree ; long lacerated wound at back of joint, through which the joint was entered and numerous fragments of the bones entering into its formation felt ; arteries and nerves intact. Resection was performed in the usual way, and about 2 inches of humerus and of radius and ulna removed. Ten separate pieces of bone were taken out of the cavity. Not- withstanding rigid antiseptic precautions, the wound putrefied on the third day and suppurated on the fifth. There was very little constitutional disturb- ance, the cavity gradually filled by granulation, and the patient left the hospital in 44 days with a strong and useful arm, the joint permitting of a wide range of movement. b. Hindu male, set. 20, was bitten by a tiger in the right elbow 7 months before admission. General inflammation of the limb ensued, and he came with a stiff elbow riddled with sinuses leading to bare bone and fingers incapable of motion owing to the results of thecal inflammation. The nails of this hand had fissures across them indicating entire interruption to growth for a short period. Five days after admission the elbow joint was resected by single vertical dorsal incision. Boro-glyceride lotion (1 in 20 parts) was used as a lotion and dressing, but it failed to keep the wound aseptic. Suppuration took place, but eventually satisfactory repair was procured, and by means of passive movement of the elbow, wrist, and fingers, a considerable range of move- ment was restored. He remained in hospitals days. b. Excision of the hip joint.—Mahomedan male, set. 16, sustained an injury of the left hip about a year before admission, followed by fever, inflam-( *0 ) mation, and abscesses which were opened and gave rise to three sinuses. Dorsal dislocation of femur; hip rigidly flexed; limb shortened and wasted,’ somewhat inverted; shaft of femur thickened: curved incision made behind trochanter major. Necrosed head of femur removed, and seven or eight pieces of dead bone taken out. Limb placed in straight position and secured by long splint and weight; recovery slow. Two sinuses, on the anterior and inner aspect of the thigh, continued long to discharge. Was eventually able to walk with the aid of crutches, and left hospital after a stay of 312 days, in good health and every prospect of regaining the use of the left leg ; the new hip joint admitted of a considerable range of movement. IV. 1. Wire suturing of fractured patella, a.— European male, ret 50, sustained transverse fracture of right patella, and was treated for 14 days by hyper-extension and strapping. The frag- ments could not be maintained in contact; they were exposed by two vertical parallel incisions about an inch apart, drilled with a bradawl, and brought close together by means of a double twisted silver wire, a large quantity of clot having been cleared out with the finger from between them. The wounds were stitched with iron wire and horse-hair. The operation was performed under strict antiseptic precautions. The wound remained aseptic through- out and pursued an aseptic course. The wires were untwisted and removed 40 days after the operation. There was a slight rise of temperature for two days, and some tenderness of the wound, but no inflam- mation or suppuration occurred. The bone united firmly, and patient left hospital in 102 days, with a useful joint and limb. He sub- sequently fell down some steps and refractured the bone at the same site. The fracture on this occasion was compound owing to the tearing open of the wound. He was treated at the General Hospital.( II ) The wound closed and the bone united, with the exception, that a small fragment at the upper and outer aspect of it, remained detached from the rest of the mass. He has been seen walking about recently (March 1883) without difficulty or halt. b. Hindu male, set. 40, sustained transverse fracture of the right patella by a fall on the knee while in a bent position. The joint was much swollen, and the fargments remained inches apart, and could not be brought closer. A single vertical incision was made, large clots cleared out of the joint and the cavity of the fracture. The fragments were then drilled and approximated by twisted silver sutures. The operation was performed under strict antiseptic precautions, but symptoms of carbolic poisoning set in ; the carbolic dressings were exchanged for boracic ; putrefaction invaded the wound and joint which suppurated. Drainage tubes were inserted \ the wires were withdrawn after 49 and 58 days ; the wound eventually closed, the bone united, and patient left hospital in 132 days, able to walk fairly well with the aid of crutches. He has been lost sight of. [The first of these cases seemed at first to be a perfect success, but the accident of refracture, which has been repeatedly recorded in similar cases, delayed the cure which was eventually satisfactory. In the second case the occurrence of carbolic poisoning and subsequent putrefaction of the wound militated against success. The result, as observed when he left hospital, was not very gratifying, and the lame stiff joint, which served the purpose of progres- sion very indifferently, was a somewhat disappointing outcome of much suffering, and long confinement to bed, on the part of the patient, and great anxiety and labour on the part of his attendants.] 2. Gouging out carious Os calcis.—Mahomedan male, set. 28, wounded by a nail in left heel four months before admission. Inflammation ensued,( 12 ) resulting in sinus leading down to carious bone. The sinus was laid freely open, and the carious bone scooped out by means of a gouge. The wound was dressed antiseptically, a layer of boracic gauze being invaginated, and loosely stuffed with carbolic gauze. Repair by granulation took place, and he left hospital with a sound heel after a stay of 60 days. Amputations. V. A. r. — Primary amputation of the four outer fingers.—Hindu male, set. 12, sustained a severe lacerated wound of the right hand in the machinery of a jute mill. AH die fingers had to be removed with exception of the thumb and index finger; the palm was lacerated, and a skin covering could not be ob- tained for it. The operation was performed antisep- tically, and repair took place quickly and satisfac- torily. The thumb and index finger retained free motion, and a very useful hand remained. He was discharged after a stay in hospital of 46 days. 2. Secondary amputation of the thigh, a.—For gangrene.—Mahometan, set. 26, sustained a compound fracture of the lower third of the leg by the wheel of a carriage passing over it. Gangrene set in on the third day, and the limb was removed by Carden’s amputation under strict antiseptic precautions. The anterior flap was infiltrated with sanguineous serum, and the thigh swelled and the inguinal glands became irritated. The discharge was copious and grumous for a few days, and considerable constitutional dis- turbance existed. The wound remained aseptic and underwent repair by first intention. An excellent stump resulted. Stitches were removed in from four to twelve days, and catgut was used for drainage and proved efficient ; no suppuration occurred. The patient was discharged in 58 days, able to walk with an artificial leg. b. For spreading traumatic gangrene.—Hindu male, set. 60, sustained compound fracture of the( *3 ) upper third of left leg by the kick of a horse 20 hours before admission. Next morning the whole leg was found to be gangrenous. Temperature 102°, tongue dry. Carden’s amputation was performed under strict antiseptic precautions. The knee joint was found full of sanguineous serum, and the subcutaneous cellular tissue of the limb tensely infiltrated with the same. Patient sank 15 hours after the operation. He never rallied, and death appeared to be due partly to shock and partly to septicaemia. 3. Secondary amputation above the ankle joint (Syme's). a.—For gangrene.—Mahomedan male, set. 40 ; left foot crushed by the wheel of a trolly ; foot became gangrenous after a week’s stay in hospital. As much skin as remained alive saved ; no stitches inserted. Operation performed antiseptically; wound remained sweet and healed by granulation. The skin was dragged over the face of the stump during the process of cicatrization. This was aided by careful application of straps. A sound stump eventually resulted, which bore the weight of the body well. Patient discharged 127 days after the opera- tion, able to walk with a high-heeled boot. b. Hindu male, set. 40 ; left foot severely crush- ed by the wheel of a cart. Extensive suppuration and sloughing with severe constitutional symptoms set in a few days, and amputation became necessary to save both life and limb. Syme’s incisions were followed as closely as the state of parts permitted. The heel flap sloughed in a few days, and a gangrenous abscess formed in the calf, spreading up along the tendo Achillis. A free counter-opening was made; the abscess healed, the wound became clean, and sufficient skin remained to cover the stump. The process of repair was protracted. He left hospital after a stay of 117 days in good health, and able to walk with a high-heeled boot. 4. Seco?idary amputation oj the arm for necrosis. Hindu female, set. 25, left forearm bitten off by an( 14 ) alligator a few days before admission. Wound sloughy and full of maggots. Under treatment the sloughs separated and healthy granulations appeared. A portion of the ulna remained, and an effort was made to save what was left of the forearm. She suffered from septicaemia and tetanus, which nearly killed her. Eventually the face of the stump healed, but several sinuses remained at the elbow, leading down to bare bone. A semilunar incision was made in front, the remains of the ulna removed and about an inch of humerus. The wound healed kindly, and she left hospital in good health and with a sound stump 211 days after admission and 60 days after the operation. 5. Amputation of the leg for syphilitic caries.— Hindu male, set. 30. Suffered from syphilis 14 years ago ; was salivated. An abscess formed over right tibia two years before admission, which burst and exposed the bone. A large ulcerated cavity remained, which was gradually growing larger. The bone was thickened and indurated above the ulcer. A fruitless effort was made to clean and heal the ulcer. Amputation by the modified circular me- thod was performed at the seat of election. The cavity got filled with blood clots, which had to be removed by finger, after taking out a few stitches. The wound eventually healed soundly, and the patient was discharged 75 days after the operation, able to walk with the aid of a pin leg. Tumours. V A. 1.—Scirrhus of mamma.—East Indian female, set. 52 ; four months’ duration; nipple retracted. Patient anaemic and very fat. Gland thoroughly removed by an elliptical incision includ- ing all suspicious skin ; a mass of suspicious glands taken out of the axilla; skin edges brought into contact. Operation performed under strict antisep- tic precautions. Discharge became grumous and( i5 .) gangrenous about a week after operation, and re- mained so for six days; constitutional disturbance slight. The wound united by first intention, and discharge gradually became scanty and lymphy. Left hospitafin 45 days with a sound linear cicatrix. a. Epithelioma of lower lip.—Mahomedan male, get. 551 said to be of 2c days’duration. Involved the whole of the lower lip, which was removed by a V-shaped incision • flaps were taken from beneath the chin and raised to the level of the teeth. Union took place, and patient left hospital in 21 days with a good substitute for the lost lip. b. Epithelioma of larynx.—Hindu male, set. 35 ; disease of 7 months’ duration. Lost his voice about a year ago; a weakly man subject to chronic diarrhoea. A cauliflower-like growth, about the size of a child’s fist, existed over the larynx, rather on the right side of it. The surrounding skin was somewhat infiltrated, and the body of the larynx and right lobe of the thy- roid body were evidently implicated. The disease could be felt with the finger through the rima glottidis ; the epiglottis seemed to be sound. Extirpation of the larynx and thyroid body was performed on the 15th November. An elliptical incision was made around the growth, including it and a liberal margin of skin. The larynx was isolated by dissection ; the thyroid arteries tied with catgut and then divided. The trachea was divided at the second ring, and the larynx removed by scissors. Epiglottis left behind. He was fed by nutrient enemata for a few days, then by means of an elastic catheter passed into the oesophagus through the wound. Healing took place slowly, but without serious hinderance. The anterior wall of the pharynx is deficient to the extent of about 2 inches; the trachseal opening is situated below it. He can swallow with the aid of an India- rubber bandage wound round the neck, is able to whisper when he places the palm of his hand over the opening, and an artificial larynx has been con-( 16 ) structed for him. His health is fairly good (ioth April 1883). There is no sign of recurrence of the disease.—(Vide “ Indian Medical Gazette,” Vol. XVIII, p. 24.) 3. Cystic tumour of the scalp.—Hindu male, ret. 30; congenital large dermoid cyst situated above upper left eyelid. Exposed by straight incision paral- lel to the eyebrow, and removed whole; found adherent to periosteum ; healed by granulation. Re- mained 22 days in hospital. 4 Molluscum of face—Mahomedan male, ret. 27; eight years’ duration. A pendulous cutaneous out- growth, springing from the left lower eyelid, removed by elliptical incision; a V-shaped piece of skin dissect- ed off the cheek to support the lid. Healing took place under careful management without eversion of lid. One month in hospital. 5. Cartilaginous tumour of neck. a.—Hindu male, ret. 38 ; one year’s duration ; situated on right side of neck deeply between parotid and submaxil- lary glands, bulging into fauces, about the size of an orange. Exposed by incision in submaxillary triangle, and shelled out with the finger. Operation performed antiseptically and drainage tube inserted. Wound healed in 8 days. Left hospital in n days. b. Hindu male, ret. 20; eight years’ duration; below left side of lower jaw, size of an orange; freely movable. Exposed by horizontal incision below border of jaw, and removed with a piece of the lower jaw to which it adhered; submaxillary gland left. Wound suppurated, but healed by gra- nulation. Left hospital in 22 days with a linear cicatrix. c. Hindu male, set. 36 ; ten years’ duration. An enormous tumour, weighing 14 lbs. after removal, hanging from the right side of the neck. Removed by elliptical incision. Vessels which were very large and numerous, as far as possible tied before division. Submaxillary gland and a few lymphatic glands also( i7 ) removed. Wound left open and dressed with bora- cic ointment. Suffered from shock which passed off, and was succeeded by mild re-action. Wound was undergoing satisfactory repair by granulation until the ioth day, when secondary haemorrhage took place from the facial artery, which had been divided close to its origin. This vessel was secured by ligature, but the bleeding recurred on the nth day and carried him off. 4. Fibroma of thigh.—Ten years’ duration ; situated over the left Scarpa’s triangle, freely mov- able. Removed by elliptical incision under antisep- tic precautions. Wound healed by granulation in 47 days. 5. a. Elephantiasis of scrotum, (a).—Mahome- dan male, aet. 37. Lymph scrotum of three years’ duration. History of orchitis, double hydrocele, and periodical fever. Scrotum covered with vesi- cles (dilated lymphatics) discharging a clear or pink- ish fluid on being pricked. Redundant and thickened scrotal skin removed, skin of penis left, testes stitched together and covered with flaps drawn from the sides. Operation performed under strict antiseptic precautions. Wound remained sweet and healed in 33 days, leaving a linear cicatrix. Tumour weighed 15 ounces. (b.) Mahomedan male, ret. 50; eight years’ duration. Syphilis 20 years ago. History of gonorrhoeal orchi- tis and fever; lymph vesicles on surface of scrotum. Tumour removed under antiseptic precautions. Pockets dug for testes, which were stitched together and to the surface of the perinaeum; lateral flaps stitched over them by continuous catgut sutures. Testes adhered to each other and to flaps. Large abscess formed in right groin. Penis freed with scissors on two occasions. Final result satisfactory. Remained in hospital 77 days. Tumour weighed 1 olbs.( i8 ) (c.) Hindu male, set, 32; ten years’duration. History of orchitis and periodical fever. Lymph vesicles on scrotum. Elephantiasis of both legs. Operations as in case (b). Double hydrocele; wound putrefied and flaps partially sloughed. Suffered from carbolic poisoning. Secondary operation necessary for removal of thickened perinseum. Penis freed by scissors on three occasions. Final result satisfactory. Discharged in 114 days. Tumour weighed 2 3lbs. (d.) Mahomedan male, aet. 38. Lymph scrotum of ten years’ duration. History of periodical fever. Skin of penis healthy. Scrotal skin removed as in case (a). Suppuration occurred in each groin, which delayed recovery. Wound healed in 31 days. Tu- mour weighed 5 ounces. (e.) Hindu male, set. 40; three years’duration. Large hydrocele on right side, extending upwards along the cord, and entering the abdomen through the ring. Skin of penis and scrotum removed in the usual way. Unobliterated processus of right side dissected off the cord and sides of dilated ring of this side brought together by strong catgut thread ; testes stitched in pockets and skin flaps brought over them. Right testicle became gangrenous, and was removed two days after operation; wound putrefied and septic suppuration ascended through ring into the right iliac fossa. Counter-opening and drainage re- sorted to; discharge profuse and foetid. Diarrhoea and pneumonia set in, and patient died of exhaus- tion 42 days after operation. Tumour weighed 8}4 ounces. (f.) Hindu, set. 41 ; eight years’ duration. History of hydrocele and fever. Operation as in case (b). Six pints of fluid in left tunica, which was continuous with an unobliterated processus vaginalis; 10 oz. in right tunica. Wound remained aseptic and • healed kindly. Penis had to be isolated on two or three occasions. Discharged in 73 days. Weight of mass iSlbs. 20Z.( i9 ) (g.) Mahomedan, cet. 20 ; four years’ duration. History of inflammation and fever ; vesicles on scro- tum. Excised as in case (b). Remained aseptic; excellent result. Discharged in 63 days. Tumour weighed 13^ ounces. (h.) Hindu, set. 43 ; twelve years’ duration. His- tory of periodical fever and sloughing. Excised as in case (b). Right tunica thickened and cartila- ginous, contained about 50Z. of fluid. Wound re- mained sweet. , Satisfactory result in 70 days. Tu- mour weighed 81bs. (/.) Hindu, set. 36 ; six years’ duration, occa- sional fever. Removed as in case (b) ; tunica partially adherent. Wound remained aseptic. Discharged in 72 days. Tumour weighed 7lbs. 7 oz. (j.) Hindu, set. 37 ; two years’ duration ; periodical fever. Removed as in case (b). Tunica inflamed. Wound remained sweet, but repair slow, owing to inflamed state of parts. Discharged in 92 days. Tumour weighed ilb. (b.) Mahomedan, set. 32 ; two months’ duration. History of inflammation and fever. Removed as in case (b). Hydrocele on both sides. Wound re- mained aseptic, cords swelled considerably. Good result in 72 days. Weighed 14 ounces. (/.) Hindu, set. 21 ; one month’s duration. His- tory of gonorrhoea and syphilis. Secondary erup- tions. Removed as in case (b). Double hydrocele; wound putrefied; burrowing took place in left groin. Recovery slow. Final result good. Discharged in 135 days. Tumour weighed ilb. 4 oz. (m.) Hindu male, aet. 38 ; one year’s duration; vesicles on scrotum; syphilis two months ago. Excised as in case (b). Wound remained aseptic. Cicatrization of penis slow. Remained 97 days in hospital. Tumour weighed ilb. ^oz. (n.) Mahomedan, get. 45. Had irreducible right inguinal hernia on admission; had been down( 20 ) for 5 hours ; was reduced in four hours after appli- cation of ice. Large hydrocele on right side, smaller on left. Scrotum thickened (elephantoid). Ablation of scrotum performed four days after. Skin of penis unaffected and not removed. Hydro- celes emptied and redundant tunicae removed. Sac of hernia dissected out, ligatured at neck and cut off. Pillars and sides of inguinal canal brought together by strong catgut ligature. Pockets made for testes in the usual way ; testis stitched together and skin drawn over them by continuous suture. The right testis and cord exhibited signs of stran- gulation, and were removed next day. The wound putrefied and suppurated. Burrowing of matter took place along the track of both cords requiring free counter-opening and drainage. Considerable con- stitutional disturbance at this time. Result eventually satisfactory. No sign of return of hernia, and scrotal wound healed up firmly. Discharged in 42 days. Tumour weighed 130Z. (o.) Hindu, set. 30. Syphilis 16 years ago; tumour of five years’ duration. History of periodical fever and swelling ; latter reduced by free exudation from surface of tumour on subsidence of fever. Weakly man subject to dysentery. Operation as in case (b). Varicose veins on right side tied with cat- gut. Wound remained sweet for a week. Tetanus set in in 9 days and carried the patient off in 3 days. Weight of tumour 10 oz. (j>.) Hindu, set. 26 ; hernia testis of left side, with elephantoid swelling of scrotum. History of gonorrhoea and orchitis. Ablation of scrotum per- formed as in case (a)\ skin of penis being left. Infiltrated substance of left testis protruded through a narrow opening in the tunica albuginea, which was freely notched ; testis stitched together and enclos- ed in pockets as usual. Wound remained aseptic and underwent slow but satisfactory repair. Dis- charged in 98 days. Tumour weighed 6 ounces.( 21 ) (q.) East Indian, set. 30 ; four years’ duration. History of orchitis and fever. Operation as in case (b). Wound remained aseptic and underwent satis- factory repair. Cicatrization of penis tedious. Re- mained 90 days in hospital. Tumour weighed 3lbs. 6oz. (r.) Hindu, aet. 38 ; two years’duration. History of hydrocele and inflamed scrotum. Left reducible inguinal hernia. Operation as in case (n). Wound putrefied, skin flaps sloughed, and suppur- ation ran up the left cord. Sloughs separated and wound was granulating, when suppurative parotitis supervened with fever of typhoid type. Patient sank 24 days after operation. (s.) Hindu, aet. 35 ; three years’ duration. History of gonorrhsea, phimosis and periodical fever. Oper- ation as in case (b). Wound remained aseptic. Good result in 68 days. Tumour weighed 2lbs. 8oz. (t.) Hindu, aet. 40 ; ten years’ duration. His- tory of orchitis and periodical fever ; operation as in case (b). Wound remained aseptic and healed without suppuration. Remained 72 days in hospital. Tumour weighed ilb. 6oz. (u.) Mahomedan, aet. 40 ; two years’ duration. History of abscess of scrotum. Sinus at fundus of scrotum. Removed as in case (b) ; tunicae adherent on both sides. Wound remained sweet and healed kindly. Discharged in 90 days. Weight of tumour 81bs. 120Z. (v.) Hindu, aet. 42 ; eight years’ duration. History of hydrocele and periodical fever. Operation as in case (b). Double hydrocele of very large size. Wound remained sweet. Symptoms of carbolic poi- soning noticed a week after operation • dressings changed to boracic. Symptoms of tetanus appeared 9 days after operation, which proved fatal in two days. Tumour weighed 32lbs. (w.) Hindu, aet. 40 ; eighteen months’ duration. History of syphilis and periodical fever. Tumour( 22 ) removed as in case (b). Wound remained aseptic and healed kindly. Discharged in 79 days, Tumour weighed 5lbs. 6oz. (x.) Hindu, set. 25 ; five years’ duration. History of hydrocele and periodical fever. Removed as in case (b); tunicse adherent. Wound remained asep- tic and underwent satisfactory repair. Left hospital in 74 days. Tumour weighed 4lbs. 120Z. (}’■) Hindu, set. 18; ten years’duration. History of orchitis and fever. Operation as in case (b). Wound remained sweet and healed without hinder- ance. Discharged 71 days after operation. Tumour weighed ilb. 20Z. (2.) Hindu, set. 37 ; five years’ duration. History of inflammation and fever. Lymph vesicles on scrotum. Patient very fat; consumed about 60 grains of opium a day by smoking. Removed as in case (b). Double hydrocele. Wound putrefied and suppurated. Lateral flaps melted away some- what and burrowing of matter took place in groins and thighs. Result eventually satisfactory. Left hospital in 90 days. Tumour weighed 5lbs 120Z. (aa.) Hindu, set. 25 ; eight years’ duration. History of scrotal inflammation and periodical fever. Lymph vesicles on scrotum. Operation as in case (b). Small double hydrocele. Secondary haemorrhage on 2nd and 4th day. Stopped by ligature of bleed- ing points. Wound putrefied and suppurated and burrowing of matter took place along left cord. Final result good. Discharged in 100 days. Tu- mour weighed 2lbs. (bb.) Hindu, aet. 23; one year’s duration. History of inflammation and periodical fever ; deep sinus in fundus of scrotum ; spleen much enlarged. Sinus healed under treatment. Another scrotal abscess formed, and was successfully treated by evacuating incision. Tumour excised as in case (b). Wound remained aseptic. Result good. Discharg- ed in 81 days. Tumour weighed 1 lb. 140Z.( 23 ) [The method of operating adopted in these 28 cases was fully detailed in a clinical lecture published in the November number of the Indian Medical Gazette. The novelties presented by this series as compared with those previously published are—(1) the new method of applying the elastic cord; (2) the digging of pockets for the reception of the testes by separating the layers of the scrotal fascia down to the pubic arch, the testes being stitched in position with catgut as previously practised, and (3) the use of boracic ointment and lint for dressing. This latter was rendered necessary in consequence of serious symptoms arising in a few cases from the absorption of carbolic acid by the large wound resulting from this operation. The success of these expedients has been marked, and although healing has not been accelerated (owing to the steps adopted to preserve the length of the penis) the process of repair has been bereft of local suffering, constitutional distress and offensive smell. In 3 of the cases (a. d. h.) the skin of the penis was preserved and remained heal- thy. Two were cases of lymph scrotum. This plan of treatment may also be adopted in cases of large hydroceles with redundant and, perhaps, slightly hypertrophied scrotal skin. In 2 cases (e. /.) the hydrocele extended along the cord into the abdomen. This was due to the tunica vaginalis being unobliter- ated inferiorly. The tunica was dissected out, and the dilated external abdominal ring closed with catgut. In one case putrefaction invaded the wound, septic suppuration ascended along the cord, and death eventually took place by septicaemia. In 2 cases (u. v.) the tumour was complicated with hernia ; these will be referred to further on. In all cases in which putrefaction was absent, repair took place more satisfactorily than when the wound became septic. Of the four deaths, two were due to septicaemia and two to tetanus. The largest tumour weighed 32 lbs. 8 oz., the( 24 ) smallest 5 oz., the average being 4 lbs. 15 oz. The average period of detention in hospital, excluding fatal cases, was 78 days. The death-rate was equal to i4’3 per cent, of operations.] b. Elephantiasis of labium, (a).—Mahomedan, set. 30; one year’s duration. History of syphilis. All the external parts involved ; stricture of rectum and recto-vaginal fistula ; condylomatous masses in the vestibule. Disease removed partly by knife and partly by ecraseur : tumour weighed 15^ oz. The wound became putrid and unhealthy action set in. Symp- toms of carbolic poisoning were observed, and the dressing promptly exchanged for boracic. Patient died of pneumonia 7 days after operation. (b). Hindu, set. 26 ; three years’ duration, of syphilitic origin; involved all the external organs. Re- moved by incision after the base of the tumour had been tightly ligatured with whipcord passed through it by means of a hernia needle ; mass weighed 3 lbs 4 oz. Wound healed by granulation in 140 days. (e). Hindu, set. 24; four years’ duration. His- tory of suppurating bubos. Both labia majora affected. Tumours excised after the base of them had been tied lightly with whipcord to prevent loss of blood. Weighed 6 lbs. 4 oz. Wound healed by granulation in 106 days. 6. Excision of piles, (a).—Hindu male, set. 30. One large pile, partly external and partly internal, removed by clamp, scissors and cautery. Healed satisfactorily in 10 days. (b). European male, set. 38. Anus surrounded by large piles which protruded and bled at stool, and had to be replaced mechanically. 10 years’ duration. Removed in sections by scissors, clamp and cautery. Satisfactory result in 39 days. (c.) European male, set. 49 ; 5 internal piles, re- moved by scissors after ligature of their base with catgut. Good result in 34 days.( 25 ) VII. i. Lithotomy (a.) Mahomedan male, aet. 60; symptoms of 3 years’ duration ; urine alkaline, traces of albumen. Left lateral lithotomy performed; bilateral section of prostate made, stone weighed 1 oz. 6*4 drs.; made a good recovery in 37 days. (&.) Mahomedan male, set. 60; symptoms of 3 years’ duration. Patient a feeble old man, addicted to opium, consumed 16 grains a day; stone extracted by median lithotomy with bilateral section of peri- naeum, weighed 1 oz. 4 drs. 6 grs. Got an attack of diarrhoea about a week after operation. Removed by his friends in a low state on the thirteenth day ; wound clean. It was subsequently ascertained that the bowel complaint subsided, and he made a good recovery. (0.) Hindu male, set. 28 ; symptoms of three years’ duration. Sound impinged on the surface of the stone easily, but could not enter the bladder. Stone felt with unusual distinctness in the situation of the prostate per rectum, median section made in the perinseum, a a shaped incision made in continuation on each side of the rectum. A similar incision opened the prostatic sac, and the stone was extracted by straight forceps. It was found to occupy the prostatic urethra, the bladder being empty and con- tracted, the stone weighed 4 oz. 2 drs.; recovery tedious owing to persistence of the perinseal opening. This was cauterised by a hot iron, but a small fistula remained when he was discharged 132 days after the operation. (d.) Mahomedan male, aet. 30 ; symptoms of 10 years’ duration. Left lateral lithotomy performed, and a stone weighing 4 oz. 6 drs. extracted with some difficulty ; wound became sloughy, and patient suffered from diarrhoea, but eventually a good re- covery ensued in 67 days. 2. Lithotrity.—Mahomedan male, set. 36 ; symp- toms of 2 or 3 years’ duration. Stone crushed on( 26 ) three occasions, on 3rd, 10th, and 14th of March ; suffered from a smart attack of fever after the first operation ; very little vesical irritation. Remained 44 days in hospital. VIII. Removal of foreign body from nose.—Hindu male, set. 5. Had introduced a piece of sola or pith into the right nostril five months ago. Inflam- mation and swelling ensued, the nostril was plugged, and there was a constant discharge of pus and blood from it. The mass had swelled and become firmly impacted. It was removed partly by a director sweeping the cavity from above downwards, and partly by forceps. Some epistaxis ensued, but not of sufficient consequence to necessitate plugging. The boy left hospital in a few days. 2. Removal of foreign body from the urethra. —Hindu male, set. 32. Had suffered from chan- cre 16 years ago. The ulcer was behind the corona glandis interiorly, and left a cartilaginous induration which caused great contraction of the urethra in this position. He subsequently contracted gonor- rhoea which was followed by gleet and stricture in the membranous part of the urethra. On the day preceding his admission he had retention for which a medical practitioner tried to pass a No. 4 catheter. It was forced through the anterior structure with great difficulty, and a false passage was made into the erectile substance of the penis immediately behind the stricture. Failing to reach the bladder, the operator tried to withdraw the instrument, and in doing so, broke it at the junction of the shaft and curve. The latter remained behind and could be felt on handling the penis. The stricture was divided by urethrotomy and the fragment removed by forceps ; the posterior stricture was subsequently dilated by bougies ; slight bleeding persisted for 24 hours and then ceased. Urine was passed in good stream,( 27 ) and the patient insisted on leaving hospital in three days. JX. i. Tracheotomy.—Hindu female, ret. 28. Had been admitted about 4 months previously into the second surgeon’s ward for acute laryngitis. Tra- cheotomy was found necessary on account of urgent dyspnoea. After two months’ detention in hospital she was discharged apparently well; she remained well for a month when the laryngeal symptoms recurred with an attack of fever, the difficulty of breathing again becoming alarming, she sought re- admission into hospital, when it was found necessary to repeat the operation (at the former site) and re- introduce a tube. This gave complete relief. She remained 137 days in hospital; the glottis continued so thickened and contracted that she could not breathe comfortably without the tube. She was subjected to various plans of treatment. Her gene- ral health was good, and becoming impatient of de- tention, she was provided with a tube and allowed to leave hospital; she has not been heard of since. 2. Herniotomy.—a. Hindu male set. 40. Right inguinal oblique hernia (scrotal epiplocele), 4 years’ duration. Descended 4 days previous to admission. Taxis tried in vain with and without chloroform before and after admission. Suffered from vomiting and obstruc- tion of bowels and increasing local tenderness. Pulse regular, good strength ; surface warm, tongue furred, moist; general health good. Tumour tense, painful, dull on percussion and fluctuating. Hydrocele fluid ; withdrawn from lower part by a fine trochar, and sanguineous serum from upper. Oblique incision in right groin, coverings divided seriatim, sac opened. Sanguineous serum gushed out and strangulated omentum presented. Latter pulled down till healthy structure came into view ; tied with 4 catgut ligatures at line of demarcation, and strangulated portion amputated. Sac dissected( 28 ) out, tied at neck and removed. Stump reduced into canal and pillars, and sides of canal brought together by four-ply catgut sutures, ends left long for drain- age. Operation performed under strict antiseptic precautions. Temperature never exceeded 100°, and became normal in four days. Vomiting subsided. Bowels became regular in 15 days. Required two doses of castor oil before then ; wound remained aseptic ; dis- charge gradually became lymphy and scanty. Drain came away in 12 days, wire stitches removed in 8, and horse-hair in n days. Wound healed in 15 days. Remained 48 days in hospital. Centre of cicatrix depressed, adherent to an indurated mass occupying canal. Superficial ring firmly adherent to cord. No impulse nor descent. Hydrocele tapped and injected successfully before he left hospital. Not heard of since. b. Hindu male, set. 35. Oblique inguinal hernia (right) of 7 years’ duration. Came down 6 hours before admission ; vomited thrice ; swelling tense and painful; taxis with ice and chloroform applied without avail. 1 oz, of sanguin- eous fluid withdrawn by fine canula. Very anxious and restless ; perspiring freely. Bowels obstructed. Performed 12 hours after descent. Sac laid open ; congested; contained a coil of congested small intestine and very fat mesentery. Gut emptied and reduced. Sac dissected out and tied at neck ; pillars &c., ligatured in the usual way. Operation performed antiseptically. Obstruction continued with dry retching and free perspiration. Abdomen became tympanitic and thora- cic viscera were compressed. In 4^4 days the oper- ation oflaparatomy was performed, seat of obstruction found, gut liberated and intestine punctured. Died in 10 hours after second operation—5^ days after the first. Recent peritonitis and paralysis of( 29 ) intestines. Herniotomy wound aseptic and in process of satisfactory repair. (c.) Hindu male, set. 40. Right oblique inguinal hernia of 5 years’ duration. Descended 6 hours before admission ; tapped and sanguineous fluid removed, ice applied; reduced after 6 hours. Came down again after a fortnight. Partly reduced after tapping. Symptoms of pros- tration. Cold sweat, feeble pulse, &c. Sac laid open. Knuckle of small intestine found acutely inflamed, bent at an acute angle, limbs of angle glued to each other and to mesentery. It was stretched, lymph peeled off and reduced. Sac and canal dealt with as in case a. Operation done anti- septically. Wound remained aseptic for a week; then putre- fied and suppurated and gaped ; matter formed in canal. Healed slowly by granulation. Constitution- al symptoms gradually improved under treatment. Bowels became regular; strength and flesh returned. Remained in hospital 66 days. Depressed cicatrix in right groin. Canal and outer ring firmly adherent to cord. No descent or impulse ; abdominal wall lax;' discharged with a truss as a precaution. Seen 10 months after discharge in excellent health ; no descent of hernia. d. Hindu male, set. 32. Congenital hernia, right side. Came down 12 hours before admission ; irredu- cible. Patient restless ; vomited thrice after admis- sion. Bowels acted after enema. Ice and taxis ap- plied without avail; 7 oz. of clear fluid removed by canula. Sac exposed; external ring nicked ; con- tents partly reduced ; sac laid open ; full of omentum adherent by a band to bottom of sac ; band tied and divided ; omentum returned. Sac dissected off, tied at neck and removed ; testes and cord pulled out of scrotum, returned after trimming and stitched to fundus of scrotum. Sides of canal brought together as usual; drainage tube passed from wound through( 3° ) incision in fundus of scrotum. Pursued aseptic course. Dressings changed after i, 3, 4, 3 and 3 days ; wire stitches removed in 8 days, and horse-hair in ir. Drain came away in 14. Healed by first intention. No inflammation. Discharged 25 days after operation. Parts consolidated ; linear cicatrix in groin ; ring closed; no impulse; no sign of de- scent. e. Hindu, set. 45. Left oblique inguinal hernia. Down 48 hours; very tense and tender. A small quantity of sanguineous serum removed by tapping ; very restless and anxious ; vomited. Ice applied for 5 hours and taxis tried without effect. Sac exposed and opened ; contained congested omentum and a knuckle of large intestine. Both reduced. Several bands of adhesion between omentum and interior of sac 1 divided. Sac dissected out, ligatured at neck, and removed. Pillars, &c., brought together with catgut. Suffered from shock, which was succeeded by prostra- tion. Abdomen became tympanitic; hiccough set in ; got stercoraceous vomiting ; temperature subnormal. Died of exhaustion 5 days after operation. On dis- section the intestine, which had been herniated, was found to be gangrenous. Septic peritonitis had occurred. Omentum had retained vitality. 3. Operation for the radical cure oj hernia.— a. European male, set. 48, sailor. Right direct inguinal hernia of 18 years’ duration. Underwent operation by Wood’s method a year ago; hernia descended after 66 days. Sac exposed by dissec- tion, neck tied with catgut by three successive loops ; body of sac removed ; stump of neck placed in canal; pillars and sides of canal brought toge- ther by double catgut ligatures, ends left long for drainage. Operation performed under strict anti- septic precautions. The sac was unobliterated, some- what contracted at neck where adhesions existed to ring. Wound remained aseptic and healed by first intention. A troublesome sinus remained in( 31 ) track of drain. Finally healed, with depressed cicatrix. Discharged in 118 days with a linear cica- trix. Canal closed; no impulse nor descent. Was re-admitted into hospital for sloughing dysentery, of which he died months after the last operation. A post-mortem examination was held, and the ring found completely obliterated and firmly adherent to the cord. There was a depressed cicatrix of the peritoneum opposite the internal ring to the inside of the epigastric artery where the neck of the sac had been tied. No trace remained of the catgut ligatures. b. Mahomedan male, tet. 68. Right oblique in- guinal hernia of 16 years’ duration. Scrotal epi- plocele. Incarcerated for 4 days. Reduced after 18 hours’ application of ice. Same operation. Cord voluminous; veins of cord varicose. Wound putre- fied, inflamed and suppurated. Stitches removed on 5th day and tube inserted. Bagging of matter in scrotum requiring counter opening. Wound finally healed by granulation. Discharged in 58 days with linear cicatrix in groin. Canal blocked. No impulse nor descent. Not heard of since he left hospital. c. Mahomedan male, aet. 45. Right oblique in- guinal hernia of 6 years’ duration (scrotal). Ring admitted 2 fingers. Large hydrocele on left side tapped; pint of hydrocele fluid removed. Same operation. Wound remained aseptic and healed by first intention. Scrotum tapped twice and sanguin- eous serum let out. Discharged in 30 days. Canal closed round cord. No descent nor impulse. Not heard of since. d. Mahomedan male, aet. 60. Right oblique in- guinal hernia (scrotal). Admitted with incarcerated epiplocele, reduced after application of ice for 20 hours. Same operation. Sac large. A thick layer of fat between neck of sac and spermatic fascia. Wound remained aseptic but inflamed and suppur- ated. Symptoms of carbolic acid poisoning appeared( 32 ) six days after operation; smoky urine, fever, deli- rium, dry tongue, &c. Boracic dressings substituted. Lungs became congested. Removed 10 days after operation by friends. It was ascertained that he died two days afterwards. e. East Indian male, aet. 18. Right oblique ingui- nal hernia of i y2 years’ duration. Tumour size of a duck’s egg, scrotal. Operation as in case a. Wound remained aseptic and healed by first inten- tion. Wire stitches removed on 7th and horse-hair on 10th day. Drain came away on 7th day. Dis- charged in 36 days. Ring and canal closed. No impulse; cure apparently satisfactory. Not heard of since. f. Jew, set. 40. Right oblique inguinal hernia of 6 years’ duration (scrotal). Ring admitted three fingers. Tumour large, descending on the slightest exertion. Same operation. Sac very large. Wound pursued aseptic course, healing by first intention. Wire stitches removed in 6 and horse-hair in 9 days. Drain came away in 8 days. Serous accumulation in scrotum ; removed by repeated tapping. Dis- charged in 48 days ; canal closed round cord. No impulse nor descent. Cure apparently satisfactory. Not heard of since. g. Mahomedan male, set. 50. Right oblique inguinal hernia (encysted). Large hydrocele on right side, tapped and injected 14 days before the opera- tion. Usual operation. Sac double, consisting of unobliterated processus vaginalis and a diaphanous peritoneal protrusion into its cavity. Boracic lint used in dressing wound. Wound healed by first intention ; no putrefaction nor inflammation. Stitches removed on 8th day and drain came away on roth. Discharged in 37 days with a liner cicatrix adherent to the cord. No impulse or descent. Hydrocele radically cured. h. Hindu male, set. 42. Right oblique inguinal hernia of 5 years’ duration. Entero-epiplocelc. Ring( 33 ) admitted two fingers. Usual operation. Boracic lint used in dressing. Remained aseptic and healed by first intention ; stitches removed on 5th and 9th day, and drain came away on 9th day. A small membra- nous slough came away through track of drain. Dis- charged in 53 days. Depressed cicatrix in groin adherent to cord. No impulse below ring; no descent of hernia. /. European male, ret. 56. Right inguinal hernia of 12 years' duration (scrotal); ring admitted two fingers. Constant descent of intestine which was not prevent- ed by a truss. Gut easily returned, but a hard lump remained in sac. Sac exposed—found to be of hour glass shape. Lower cavity contained a mass of matted omentum adherent by bands to the interior of the sac. The omentum was ligatured in sections with catgut, the lump removed and the rest returned. The operation was completed in the usual manner. The wound remained aseptic and healed by first intention. Abdomen tympanitic for three days. No inflammation or fever; drain came away on 10th day. Patient left hospital 35 days after the operation with a linear cicatrix in right groin, and no tendency to reproduction of hernia. He reported four months afterwards that the parts were quite comfortable, and that there was no sign of return of the hernia. j. East Indian male, set. 45. Right oblique in- guinal hernia of 4 years’ duration. Operated on by Wood’s method in 1878. Remained up for 4 years. Descended recently. Suffers from asthma. Usual operation. Sac bilocular, presenting two bags and an intervening septum. Wound putrefied, inflamed and suppurated. The whole of the stump of the sac came away in the form of a slough. Pus burrowed into the scrotum and abdominal wall requiring counter openings and insertion of drainage tubes. Remained 209 days in hospital; numerous subcuta- neous abscesses formed on the chest and abdomen —( 34 ) requiring incision and drainage. Made a satisfactory, recovery in the end. Hernia radically cured. k. Armenian male, ait. 25. Suffered from a ful- ness of the left groin from infancy. Pronounced symptoms of rupture were observed one and-a-half years ago. Ring dilated, admitted two fingers. ; t Hydrocele on the same side; health good. The usual operation was performed under strict antisep- tic precautions. The tunica vaginalis was emptied 1 and a portion of it removed. The wound remained : sweet and healed throughout the greater part of its extent by first intention. An abscess formed in the r scrotum requiring a counter opening and drainage. He remained 78 days in hospital, and left with the wounds soundly healed, the parts contracted and consolidated and the hernia satisfactorily cured. l. Mahomedan male, aet. 20. Left oblique ingui- nal hernia (scrotal) of 7 years’ duration. Ring ad- j mitted two fingers; same operation. Two sacs found, a larger superiorly, and a smaller containing matted omentum adherent to the inner surface inferiorly. The adhesions were divided, the omentum returned, and the operation completed in the usual way. The upper wound healed kindly, and no abdominal symp- toms occurred, Suppurative inflammation arose in the scrotum requiring a free opening at its fundus through which a large quantity of pus and several stringy sloughs were withdrawn. A drainage tube was inserted and the cavity gradually closed. He was discharged 55 days after the operation in good health, and without any sign of recurrence of the hernia. m. European male, sailor, set. 36. Reducible ob- lique inguinal hernia of the right side of 17 years’ I duration. He had been operated on for its radical cure at Malta 15 years ago. He was detained in hospital for 2 months, but the hernia descended four months after his discharge. The ring easily admit- ted two fingers. He was a robust looking man ; had( 35 ) suffered from scurvy, but there were no signs of it now present except some ulceration of the gums. The usual operation was performed. The tunica vaginalis was found to be distended with fluid. It was emptied and part of it removed. An opening was made through the fundus of the scrotum and a drain placed in it. The patient had some febrile re- action, and the scrotum was found swollen, and ecchymosed on the day after operation. Next day the swelling had increased, the penis was cedema- tous, and it became necessary to remove the stitches which were causing tension. On the third day the scro- tum, lower abdomen and thighs were found gangre- nous, and the man was in a state of typhoid prostra- tion. He died of exhaustion in course of the afternoon. [These notes contain records of 20 cases in which the sac was exposed, the neck of it tied, the sac it- self excised, and the inguinal canal closed with cat- gut ligatures after the manner fully described in the Indian Medical Gazette, Vol. XV. pp. 227—255. In two of the cases (V. 5 a. (n) (r). supra) the hernia existed as a complication of scrotal tumour, and the operation was performed simultaneously with that of removal of the elephantoid swelling; one of these recovered notwithstanding that a large hydrocele had to be evacuated and most of the tunica removed, that castration became necessary next day, and that putrid cellulitis took place, causing extensive burrow- ing and necessitating free counter opening. The se- cond case died of septicaemia 24 days after operation. In this case the wound putrefied and parts sloughed. In five of the cases the operation was performed in addition to that of herniotomy which was demand- ed by strangulation of the hernial contents. In three of these complete recovery and radical cure resulted. Two proved fatal—one from persisting obstruction, and the other from gangrene of the herniated intes- tine. Of the 13 cases in which the operation was( 36 ) resorted to for cure of a reducible hernia 11 recover- ed, and, as far as is known, the operation was entire- ly successful. Two cases proved fatal, one of them was an elderly man who exhibited symptoms of car- bolic acid poisoning. The lungs became congested ; he was removed in a moribund state, and died 12 days after operation. The other man died of spread- ing traumatic gangrene on the fourth day. His sys- r tem was damaged by a previous attack of scurvy. The conclusions which I consider that these cases and those previously reported justify, are :— 1. That the operation effectually obliterates an existing hernia in all cases and prevents the formation of another rupture on the same side in the great majority of cases. 2. That its performance does not add materially to the risk when strangulation or incarceration de- ■ mands surgical interference. 3. That when performed in a young and healthy subject with strict antiseptic precautions, it is not ac- : companied with any material risk to life, but 4. When the subject is old or sickly, or when the wound becomes septic, that considerable danger to life exists.] 4. Fishila in ano.—(a). Jewess, set. 37; compli- cated with external and internal piles and fissure; j 5 months’ duration ; fistula divided and piles removed by scissors. Left hospital in 6 days in process of cure. (i>). Mahomedan male, set. 35. Blind external fistula of 2 months’ duration, following ischiorectal [ abscess ; laid open into rectum. Wound healed by granulation. 61 days under treatment. (c). European male, set. 32. Complete fistula of 6 months’ duration, laid open in the usual way. Operation had to be repeated owing to premature union of lips of wound. Result finally satisfactory in 66 days. 5. Perincealsection—(a). Mahomedan male, set. 25.( 37 ) Fell off a coach-box 4 days before admission on to a piece of wood which came into violent contact with his perinaeum. Passed bloody urine for 2 days ; hard painful swelling in perinaeum ; perinaeum incised; clots removed; full sized catheter introduced into bladder, wound gradually closed. No. 12 catheter introduced every third day. Left hospital in 32 days with the perinaeal wound fully closed and able to make water in full stream per urethram. (b.) Hindu male, aet. 55. Scrotal fistula follow- ing abscess, through which urine dribbled; 9 months’ duration ; history of gonorrhoea and syphilis. Sinus slit up and No. 12 catheter passed into bladder. A grating sensation was experienced when the instrument reached the membranous part of the urethra. Urine continuing to dribble, a grooved staff was introduced r 2 days afterwards, and a free perinaeal section performed. Two small calculous masses were removed from the cavity of the fistula which was thoroughly laid open. After a few days No. 12 catheter was introduced, and this was repeated every third day. The wound contracted; but the patient got dysentery, and was taken away by his friends before the cure was com- plete. Remained 43 days in hospital after the second operation. (c.) Hindu male, aet. 30. Suffered from gonor- rhoea 10 years ago, and again 6 years ago. This attack was followed by orchitis and hydrocele of the left side. An abscess formed in the perinaeum 6 months before admission. It burst and left a sinus in the fundus of the scrotum through which urine escapes. The hydrocele was tapped about this time. Since then both penis and scrotum have undergone elephantoid enlargement, attaining the size of a cocoa- nut ; penis embedded ; urethra strictured. The stricture was in the first instance dilated by bougies till it admitted a No. 12. The escape of urine continuing, a grooved staff was introduced into( 38 ) the bladder and the fistula thoroughly laid open and stricture divided. Several vessels had to be tied. Secondary haemor- rhage took place ten days after the operation which was stayed by tying a bleeding point and plugging. The wound gradually contracted. A full sized instru- ment was introduced every third day. He would not have the tumour removed, and left hospital 48 days after the operation. d. Hindu male, set. 24. Had suffered from gonor- rhoea which was followed by two abscesses, one in the hypogastric region and another in front of the scro- tum at the root of the penis. An instrument passed into the urethra entered the latter and pus and blood welled out. A perinseal section was performed with- out a guide, and a soft instrument passed into and through the penile urethra from behind forwards through the wound. This was retained for a day or two, and a drainage tube was then put in its place and retained. The abscesses were at the same time laid freely open; their cavities gradually filled up, and the resulting fistulas closed. The tube was with- drawn, a full sized bougie was introduced into the bladder every third day, and finally the perinasal wound also closed up. Patient left hospital in 63 days per- fectly recovered. (e.) Mahomedan male, set. 30. Had injured his : urethra by a fall 7 years previously. Stricture re- sulted. 20 days before admission an abscess formed in the perinaeum, which burst and left a fistula through which urine escaped during micturition. No instrument could be passed through the stricture, though repeated attempts were made. Perinaeal sec- tion was performed without guide, the stricture divid- ed, and a No. 12 catheter passed into the bladder. This was repeated periodically ; the perinaeal wound gradually closed and patient left hospital after 46 days’ treatment. 6. hicisionfot hcematocele.—(a.) Hindu male, aet. 35-( 39 ) Admitted with a very tense and painful swelling of left side of scrotum which had been mistaken for a strangulated hernia. Constipation had existed for S days, patient had vomited, and was in a state of prostration. On tapping the swelling very foetid fluid of a yellow color was emitted. The cord was exposed in the groin. It was oedematous, but no sign of any hernial sac could be seen. The scrotal swelling was then laid open by free incision, and a large quantity of putrid clot and grumous liquid re- moved. It was dressed for granulation. Consider- able constitutional disturbance remained for a day or two, but gradually subsided; both wounds healed by granulation. An abscess formed on the right side of the scrotum which was laid open. Eventually an excellent recovery took place in 32 days ; the wounds having cicatrized, the scrotum resumed its natural size. (b.) Hindu male, set. 24. Suffered from hernia of the right side which was tapped a year ago. Re- accumulation taking place, it was again tapped 4 days before admission. The fluid was observed to be sanguineous, and a solution of carbolic acid was injected. Great pain and swelling and constitutional disturbance followed. On exploring the tunica it was found to be tensely filled with bloody putrid material. It was laid open freely and emptied and dressed with boracic gauze. The wound gradually filled up, and patient left hospital in 48 days with a linear cicatrix on a scrotum of normal size. He had an attack of surgical scarlatina during convalescence. (c.) Hindu male, set. 40. Suffered from hydrocele of left tunica and periodical fever. It was tapped and injected with iodine two months before admis- sion. This was followed by inflammation and swell- ing. The latter continued to increase. The tunica was freely laid open and a large quantity of sanguin- eous fluid and lymphy clot evacuated. The wound healed by granulation in 55 days, the cavity of the tunica undergoing complete obliteration.( 40 ) 7. Redo-vaginal fistula.—East Indian female, aet. 32. Admitted with ulceration of rectum, external piles, and a fistulous communication between the vagina and rectum, situated about half an inch from the anal verge, giving rise to very unpleasant suffering. She was in an advanced stage of phthisis and subject to diarrhoea. The fistula was laid open by division of the perinseum and the wound dressed with boracic ointment. This contributed to cleanliness and com- fort. She died in a month of the phthisis apd diar- rhoea ; the wound was clean and granulating. 8. Large abscesses. a. Dorsal abscess.—Hindu male, set. 36. Curva- ture of the cervical spine, associated with abscess extending on the left side of the spine from the nape of the neck to the inferior angle of the scapula. History of syphilis; anaemic and feeble. Abscess opened antiseptically, 8oz. of pus evacuated ; tube withdrawn in 10 days ; wound healed soon afterwards. Another abscess formed at upper part of right thigh, it was opened antiseptically, and healed in a week. An abscess of the right calf, which had been opened without antiseptic precautions before admission, closed very slowly. Was under treatment for 86 days, and left hospital much improved in health. b. Scrotal abscesses, (a).—East Indian male, aet. 30. Hydrocele tapped 6 days before and iodine injected; cellulitis and suppuration followed. Laid open antisep- tically ; tunica explored, a little clear fluid escaped. A cellular slough was discharged through the incision which healed up soon thereafter. The scrotum re- gained its natural size. Detained in hospital 28 days. (b). Chinaman, set. 48. Suffered from fever and swelling of scrotum for four days ; tunica distended. It was tapped on two occasions, and turbid serum withdrawn. An abscess formed in the cellular tissue of the stcrotum which was laid open antiseptically. This underwent rapid repair, the tunica regained its nor- mal size, and the patient was discharged well in 35 daysTube removed in 9 days. Discharged in 13 days. ( 4* ) 1 c. Perinatal abscesses, (a).—Hindu male, set. 30 ; 12 days’ duration. Gonorrhoea 3 months ago. A free perinaeal section was performed, and about 5 ounces of very foetid pus evacuated. No communication existed with the urethra. The wound healed in 18 days. A slight stricture of the urethra was gradually dilated. (b). Hindu male, set. 28; one month’s duration following gonorrhoea, urethra strictured. Free peri- nseal section performed, and about half an ounce of pus evacuated. No escape of urine through wound now or subsequently. Wound healed kindly ; stricture gradually dilated. Discharged in 63 days. (c.) Hindu male, set. 38 ; 15 days’ duration; followed gonorrhoea of three months’ standing • urethra strictured; free incision in middle line of perinseum, a small quantity of pus exhaling a urinous odour evacuated. Stricture gradually dilated. A few drops of urine used to come for a time through the wound during micturition. It finally closed, and patient left hospital in 34 days quite recovered. (d.) Abscess of tunica vaginalis.—East Indian male, aet. 18; twenty days’ duration; formation accompanied with fever and shivering; fluid detected in tunica which, on tapping, was found to be purulent; free incision made. The cavity filled with granula- tion material and closed in 37 days. e. Perihepatic abscess.—Hindu male, set. 25 ; 23 days’ duration; fluctuating tumour in right hypo- chondrium. Liver dulness extended 3 inches below costal arch including fluctuating area. An incision was made under strict antiseptic precautions and two drainage tubes inserted; pus characteristic of liver abscess evacuated; one tube withdrawn in 15 and the other in 25 days. Wound healed shortly after- wards. Suffered from dysentery for a week. Re- mained 34 days in hospital. f. Axillary abscess.—European male, set. 44 ; 17 days’ duration; opened and drained antiseptically.( 42 ) g. Abscess of arm.—Native female, get. 28. Ab- scess in infra spinous fossa of right side of 4 days’ duration. Opened and drained antiseptically. An- other abscess detected at the upper part of right arm 6 days afterwards, and similarly treated. Erysipelas of the shoulder and arm supervened on the last oper- ation. This delayed the closing of the sinuses, which continued to suppurate freely as long as the erysipelas lasted. Satisfactory closing of both was obtained after 68 days’ treatment. h. Multiple abscesses.—(a.) Eurasian female, set. 29. Had suffered before admission from 6 abscesses in the breast, axilla, and other places. After admis- sion four additional abscesses formed; they were opened and drained antiseptically. Tonic treatment was adopted, and she was discharged in good health after 92 days’ treatment. (b.) East Indian male, set. 31. Admitted with a large abscess of left thigh of 1 7 days’ duration, which followed over-fatigue and formed with fever. An abscess at the back of the right thigh was subse- quently detected, and then an abscess of the liver. They were opened and drained antiseptically on the 20th, 22nd and 26th June. The tubes were gradu- ally shortened and finally withdrawn on 27th June (right thigh), 30th June (left thigh), and 17th July (liver). The wounds healed up soon after, and he was discharged on 21st July,—32 days after ad- mission. X. 1. Division of cicatrix after burn.—Hindu male, set. 7. Sustained a burn of the right upper extremity 2)4 years ago. This resulted in a triangu- lar cicatricial web occupying the angle of the acutely flexed limb. The apex of the web was at the elbow joint, and its base measuring about 2)4 inches, ex- tended from the wrist to the shoulder. The arm was covered externally with a thick (keloid) cicatri- cial mass. This was dissected off; the web was split up to the bend of the elbow. A band of skin( 43 ) was dissected off the inner and outer aspects of the limb above and below the joint and united by sutures in the middle line. The limb was straightened and secured in that position by a straight splint. The wound gradually cicatrized and patient was discharg- ed after 74 days’ detention in hospital with a useful limb. 2. Hare-lip. a.—Mahomedan female, set. 7. Single, left side ; incisor gum protruding through cleft. This was removed by cutting forceps, a giant incisor extracted, and the alveolar edge rounded off. The edges of the cleft were then pared and brought accu- rately together by 6 horse-hair stitches. A button suture was employed to take the strain off these. The wound healed by first intention, and a good result was obtained after 9 days’ treatment. b. Hindu female, aet. 26. Single, left side, complete. A prominent incisor tooth was extracted, the edges of the fissure pared and brought together by 7 horse-hair stitches. The wound healed by first intention. Patient was convalescing from an opera- tion for the removal of labial elephantiasis when this operation was performed. 3. For Atresia oris. a.—Hindu male, set. 5. Had suffered from cancrum oris which caused necrosis of the jaw and loss of several teeth, and resulted in a firm cicatricial band on the inside of the right cheek which held the mouth firmly closed. This was divided, a necrosed molar tooth removed, a bit of necrosed alveolar process scraped away, and the mouth forced open by a Smith’s gag. The gag was used every third day during the process of healing, and the patient left hospital in 36 days, able to separate his teeth to a sufficient extent. b. Hindu male, set. T2. Had suffered from malarious fever, enlarged spleen, and cancrum oris two years before admission. A firm cicatricial band resulted on the inside of the left cheek, holding the teeth firmly and permanently in contact. The same( 44 ) treatment was adopted as in the last'case. The wound healed in 39 days, and patient left hospital with power to separate his teeth to a serviceable extent. 4. Plastic operation for restoration of lip. a. —Hindu male, set. 30. Had suffered from a carbun- cular boil of lower lip 4 years ago, 6 teeth and a cor- responding length of gum exposed. A flap was taken from the chin and transplanted upwards. This serv- ed to supply the deficiency and conceal the teeth and gums. Remained 22 days in hospital. b. Hindu female, set. 13. Had suffered from sloughing parotitis two years before, which resulted in destruction of the whole of the left cheek, most of the lower lip, part of the upper and most of the nose. Several teeth of both jaws necrosed; mouth permanently closed by firm cicatricial bands extend- ing between the left alveolar processes. The un- sound teeth were extracted, cicatricial material dis- sected off, and the mouth forced open, flaps were taken from beneath the lower jaw and over the malar bone and zygoma to form a cheek and lips, and by a subsequent operation a new nose was formed partly from the forehead and partly from the right cheek. She was under treatment for 56 days, and left hos- pital with all the deficiencies in the face supplied and able to masticate her food. 5. Circumcision, a.—Hindu male, set. 28. Para- phimosis with phagedenic sores. Constriction divid- ed and prepuce, which was ulcerated, cedematous, and gangrenous, excised by scissors. Wound healed by granulation. Discharged in 24 days. b. Burmese male, set. 20. Preputial chancroid and phimosis, of one and-a-half month’s duration. Prepuce removed; wound healed by granulation in 28 days. c. European male, set. 21. Preputial chancroid and phimosis of 2 months’ duration. Prepuce re- moved by circular incision, mucous membrane divid-( 45 ) cd to corona glandis by two lateral incisions ; edges of skin and mucous membrane brought together by horse-hair stitches. Parts healed in 29 days. d. East Indian male, set. 10. Congenital phimo- sis ; same operation. Discharged in 30 days. Re- sult good. e European male, aet. 30. Phimosis; same oper- ation. Edges united by first intention. A small tumour was also successfully removed from the sole of the left foot. Detained 30 days in hospital. f. Hindu male, aet. 20. Phimosis following go- norrhoea and balanitis. Excoriations round prepu- tial orifice, penis much swollen. Same operation. Satisfactory result in 14 days. 6. Plastic operation for laceration of scrotum.— Hindu male aet. 25. His clothes were caught in an oil machine and the skin of the penis and scrotum completely torn off, just as if he had been subjected to an operation for scrotal tumour. No bleeding ; edges even; testes, hanging free over perinaeum. Pockets were dug for them as in the operation for scrotal tumour, the testes were stitched together by catgut, and lateral flaps of skin drawn over them by continuous catgut suture. An excellent scrotum resulted ; the penis was gradually covered by cicatri- cial integument. Patient was discharged in 53 days. XI. 1. Nerve-stretching for sciatica.—Patient, an East Indian male, aet. 52 ; had suffered for 2 years from sciatica which had come on after exposure to cold, and had been treated in vain up-country by a great variety of medicines and appliances.' He suffered constant agony, and was quite bed-ridden, being unable to move his leg without great pain. The sciatic nerve was exposed as it emerges from under the edge of the gluteus maximus, and thorough- ly stretched. The wound healed by first intention, and the pain in the course of the sciatic nerve disappeared. No paralysis resulted from the operar tion.( 46 ) A tumour was subsequently detected above the great trochanter, which was judged to be a sarcoma. Patient would not consent to any operation for the removal of it, and left hospital greatly relieved after a stay of 48 days. General Remarks. 1. Death-rate.—The general death-rate 9^9 per cent, of cases treated to the end is more favourable than in any of the series previously published. The operations were not less severe than those of former years, and considering the class of patients treated, many of them presenting constitutions damag- ed by malaria, syphilis, unhealthy surroundings, and poor feeding, I am not sanguine that the rate can be reduced much lower. 2. Death causes.—These are shown in the foot note appended to the return which prefaces this paper, and fully explained in the narratives of indivi- dual cases. They may be exhibited thus :— Shock ... ... 2 Tetanus ... ... 2 Septic poisoning ... ... 3 Primary gangrene ... ... 1 Gangrene of bowel ... ... 1 Obstruction of bowel ... ... 1 Secondary haemorrhage ... 1 Phthisis ... ... 1 12 In one of the cases of primary shock (the case of knee-stretching) a comparatively trivial injury induced shock in a subject, of very feeble constitution. In the other case advanced age combined with severe injury, traumatic gangrene and a serious operation to establish the same condition. Both the cases of tetanus had undergone an operation for the removal of scrotal elephantiasis. The state of the wound was satisfactory in each instance, the disease supervened on the ninth day in both, and pursued an acute and rapid( 47 ) course. In the cases of septic poisoning, the disease was associated with putrid wounds and presented a chronic type, being of slow development and associat- ed with local inflammations of a low kind. The remaining causes do not give ground of general com- ment. 3. Hospitalism and Antiseptics.—The behaviour of wounds was satisfactory during the year under re- port, erysipelas almost unknown, and unhealthy in- flammation rare. Extended experience induces me to attach greater importance to the element of con- stitutional depravity or impaired vital resistance, as largely determining both the occurrence and type of septic disturbance both of wounds and system. This consideration furnishes strong ground for the sedu- lous employment of antiseptics. The argument would take this form. If the strong and healthy are liable to be poisoned by material absorbed from putrid wounds, and require for safety the employment of measures competent to prevent putrefaction, how much more necessary are these in the case of the feeble and unhealthy, whose tissues become an easier prey to infection and systems succumb more readily to the toxic effects of septic poisons absorbed from putrid wounds. I have accordingly spared no pains to prevent the occurrence of putrefaction in wounds. The only change which I have made in this respect has been greater caution in applying carbolic dressings direct to wounds, for in several cases I have observed un- pleasant symptoms arise from absorption of carbolic acid through the wound and skin. I have therefore used boracic acid in the form of the boracic lint, and the ointment (Lister’s) spread on thin gauze more largely as a direct application to wounds and sores, reserving carbolic gauze for use as an outer covering. As such it maintains a pure atmosphere in the vicinity of the wound, and maintains aseptic any discharges that may escape beyond the deeper layers of the dressings’" . I a m j , ■1. Excision of the eye-ball PRECIS OF OPERATIONS PERFORMED IN THE WARDS OF THE FIRST SUR- GEON, MEDICAL COLLEGE HOS- PITAL, DURING THE YEAR 1883. By Surgeon-Major K. McLeod, A.M., M.D., F.R.C.S.E., Professor of Surgery-, Calcutta Medical College. The following table and notes are in series with those published . for the years 1879, 18S0’ 1881 and 1882,' Vide “ Indian Medical Gazette ; Vol. XV, pp. 92, 123 ; Vol. XVI, pp, 123, 145 ; Vol. XVII, pp. 113, 143 and Vol. XVIII, pp. 141 171.) The abstracts of cases have been con- densed from detailed notes recorded by my House-Surgeon, Assistant-Surgeon Amrita Lall Das, L.M.S., who has performed this duty with much care and intelligence. I am also much indebted to this officer for valu- able aid in the treatment of the cases, many of them requiring anxious watching and sedulous attention. . , Description of Operations. ■<* 0 5 ,2 <U JO Oj s s 3 d £ o 73 <y /.—Operations on the eye and its appen- dages.i Dysentery. 2 Tetanus. ( 2 ) Description of Operations. Number of operations. Died. II.—Operations on joints. I. Dislocation of shoulder joint reduced. 3 0 2. Extension of stiff knee-joints 2 0 3. Incision of knee-joint 1 0 Total 6 0 III.—Operations on Bones. 1. Partial excision for necrosis ( Sequestrotomy ) 4 0 2. Gouging out ofcarious os cal:is 1 0 3. Refracture of femur 1 0 Total 6 0 I V.—A mputations. A—For Injury. 1. Primary of arm 1 0 2. fingers 2 I1 3- leg r 0 4. toes 2 0 5. Secondary of shoulder joint for spreading traumatic gan- grene 1 I - 6. Arm for ditto ... 1 3 7. leg 1 3Number of ( 3 ) Description of Operations. 1* 1 2 3 * * * operations. B.—For Disease. 8. For sarcoma—of the upper extremity and scapula ... 9. of the lower ex- tremity and bones of the pelvis io For cancer—above the ankle (Syme’s) 11. Forcariesof the tarsus—above the ankle (Syme’s) 12. For caries of the ankle—of the leg 13. For disorganization and an- > kylosis of the knee-joint— of the leg 14. For disorganization of the knee-joint-—of the thigh ... 15. For necrosis of the finger ... I I I I I 2 2 -i 14 13 o o o 2s Total F.—Removal of Tumours {By excision.) A.—Malignant. 1. Scirrhus of mamma 2. Epithelioma—a. of the cheek and jaw b. of the lower lip c. of the tongue 19 1 i7 1 o 1 i8 3 Shock. 7 Exhaustion. 4 Shock, s Tetanus. 6 Both asthenia. 8 Secondary haemorrhage.( 4 ) Description of Operations. Number ofj operations. Died. 2. Epithelioma—^.of the pharynx & larynx 1 I9 e. of the abdomi- nal wall 1 0 f of the buttock 1 0 g. of the penis ... 4 0 3. Sarcoma—a. of the foot 1 0 b. of the face 1 i10 c. of the neck 1 0 B.—Non-malignant. 4. Fibroma of face 1 0 5. Lymphangioma 1 0 6. Lymphadenoma of neck 1 i11 7. Angioma I i12 8. Papilloma—a. of leg 1 i13 b. of penis and scrotum 1 0 9. External and internal piles ... 3 0 10. Elephantiasis—a. of scrotum... 24 614 b. of labia 2 0 Total 49 13 V.—Removal of Calculi. 1. Urethral by forceps 1 0 2. by incision 1 0 3. Vesical by lithotomy 2 i15 4. by litholapaxy 1 i16 Total 5 2 9 Secondary haemorrhage, io Shock. 11 Chloroform asphyxia. 2—13 Pneumonia. 14 Three Tetanus and three Septicaemia. 15 Pneumonia ; 16 Septicaemia.( 5 } 1 Description of Operations. Number of operations. Died. |l VI.—Removal of foreign bodies. 1. CEsophageal by probang 1 0 VI1.—Incisions. 1. Tracheotomy 1 i1T 2. Abdominal section (Explora- tory) 1 i13 3. For strangulated hernia— a with opening sac 5 319 4. For radical cure of hernia 8 0 5. For fistula in ?-no 5 0 6. Perinaeal section 8 22 9 7. Internal urethrotomy 1 0 8. For haematocele 5 221 9. For imperforate anus 3 i33 10. For bubo with removal of glands 4 0 11. For large abscesses 39 2 Total 80 12 VIII.—Reparatwe Ope? ations. 1. For atresia oris 2 0 2. For cleft palate (staphylo- raphy) 1 0 3. For hare-lip 1 0 4. For vesico-vaginal fistula 1 0 5. For taipes varus 1 0 6. For cicatrix after burn 1 0 7. For phimosis (circumcision) ... 3 0 Total 10 0 17 Diphtheria. 18 Exhaustion. 19 a Tetanus, b obstruction c Peritonitis. 20 Both Septicaemia. 21 Both Septicaemia ->2 Exhaustion. 23 Both Septicaemia.Description of Operations. OJ ■- - 5 I Q a,' o IX.—Operations not classed. 1. Hydrocele tapped and injected. r 0 2. Spina bifida tapped and injected r 0 3. Cystic tumour of neck tapped 1 0 Total 3 0 Grand Total ... J CO O 34 I. —Excision of the eyeball for malignant dis- ease.—Hindu male, set. 55. Commenced in the eyeball 5 years ago; has attained the size of an orange ; lids displaced and everted. Extirpation effected by scissors. Left hospital well in 25 days ; no recurrence. II. — Reduction of dislocation of the shoulder joint, a.—Hindu male, aet 24. Subcoracoid; one month’s duration; occurred during an epileptic fit. Reduced under chloroform by traction with the heel in the axilla. Operation followed by several epileptic fits. Left hospital in 10 days. b. —Englishman, aet. 40, a jockey. Recent post-glenoid, caused by a fall. Reduction effec- ted by traction with the heel in the axilla without chloroform. Suffered subsequently from neuralgia of the branches of the brachial plexus, and remained in hospital for 27 days. c. —Mahomedan male, aet. 30. Recent sub- glenoid ; caused by overreaching in attempting( 7 ) to strike another man. Reduced by traction with the heel in the axilla. Left hospital the same day. 2. Extension of stiff Knee-joints, a.—Maho- medan male, aet. 35. Sustained a wound of the left knee-joint 9 months ago, followed by sup- puration in the joint, formation of sinuses and permanent stiffness in a semi-flexed position. Stretched forcibly under chloroform ; several bands felt giving way ; limb placed on a Mac- Intyre splint and ice applied. Joint swelled ; strong fever supervened, lasting for two days. Lead and opium lotion applied, and a succession of blisters. Left hospital in 45 days, able to stand and walk without support, and to flex and extend the limb. b.—Hindu male, aet. 29. Right knee-joint in- flamed one year ago. Pus formed in the joint, which was laid open. Ankylosis in a semi-flexed attitude took place during the process of clo- i sure of the puncture ; leg atrophied ; patella mov- able ; constitution feeble. Forcible extension was made under chloroform, followed by the use of a MacIntyre splint. The joint inflamed. Rest and counter irritants failed to reduce the inflamma- tion, which proceeded to suppuration. The cavity became putrid and septic fever of severe type ensued. Under free opening and drainage this subsided and eventually ankylosis in a straight position was obtained. Remained 6 months under treatment. [Extension was also resorted to in Cases IV. 14.b, and vii. II. n. ii and iv.] 3. Incision of knee-joint.—Eurasian male, aet. 21. Admitted with erysipelatous inflammation of the scrotum and glands of the right groins and( 8 ) axilla following a wound of the left great toe. The right knee-joint was also painful and dis- J tended, and severe fever of a low type existed. The right tunica vaginalis was found on explora- tion to contain turbid serum, and was laid open and drained antiseptically. The knee-joint be- 1 came more swollen, tense and painful, and con- ? stitutional symptoms more urgent. Two days af- ter admission, the joint was tapped by a fine trochar and found to contain pus. An incision was made and drainage tube introduced under antiseptic precautions. His state at this time' i was extremely critical. Improvement soon fol- lowed the operation, and under antiseptic treat- ment both tunica and joint recovered ; the erysi- pelas and constitutional disturbance quickly! abating. The knee-joint remained somewhat stiff, and tender, and passive movement under chloroform was repeatedly resorted to. The glandular swellings underwent resolution. He left hospital in 98 days in good health, with slight stiffness of the joint. [ This was a case of very severe external pysemia resulting in suppuration of the right tunica vaginalis and knee-joint. Free incision and subsequent drainage under strict antiseptic precautions were followed by marked and pro- gressive improvement, eventuating in recovery.] Incision of the knee-joint was also resorted to in Cases II. 2. b., and IV. 14. a and b. III. 1.—Partial excision for necrosis-Seques- trotomy. a.—Lower jaw. i.—Hindu male, set 30. Had a “ gumboil” about a year and-a-half ago which burst. He was profusely salivated, and matter made its way out through an opening( 9 ) opposite the angle of the jaw. On admission the right half of the lower jaw was found necrosed from symphysis to angle, the sequestrum was loose, and a new body had been formed. The lead piece was easily removed by manipulation. It was 4 inches long and i^inch deep. The teeth had dropped out, and the alveolar sockets had been ground down by rubbing against the teeth of the upper jaw. The cavity soon filled up and the sinus closed. He was discharged 6 days after operation. ii. —Hindu male, jet 30. Had a bad gumboil ion the left side of the lower jaw a year ago ; lost two molars. 20 days ago an opening was made externally, through which a piece of Idead bone was extracted. On admission loose [sequestra could be detected through the sinus. 'This was enlarged under chloroform and three ipieces of dead bones were extracted. The mouth was subsequently opened by repeated use of Smith’s gag. Got an attack of facial erysipelas there weeks after operation. On subsidence of this the cavity and sinus closed, and he was dis- charged after a stay of 30 days in hospital. iii. —Hindu male, aet 20. Exfoliation of right ramus of lower jaw caused by a strumous [abscess of the cheek, of 3 months’ standing. Several sinuses existed on the right side of tire face and neck. These were laid open and [scraped. The sinus leading to the dead bone was also enlarged, a lot of gelatinous granula- tion material scraped out, some small exfolia- tions were removed, and the surface of the diseased bone well filed down by an osteotrite. Constitutional treatment was adopted. The : sinuses healed soundly by granulation. The( 10 ) mouth was opened by repeated use of Smith” gag. Remained 53 days in hospital. b. Humerus.—Hindu male, aet. 25. Had an abscess of right arm 6 years ago, which has never closed. Numerous subcutaneous abscess- es appeared on other parts of his body, which healed after discharge of matter. Movable dead bone detected through the sinus of arm. This was enlarged under chloroform and two sequestra removed—one two inches long. A drainage tube was inserted and the wound dressed antiseptically. The sinus healed sound- ly. He had an attack of dysentery during convalescence. Discharged in 45 days. 2. Gouging out oj carious os calcis.—Hindu male, aet. 30. A nail entered above his right heel, and though it was extracted at once, inflamma- tion and suppuration followed requiring three successive incisions—over the tendo Achillis, at the lower third of the leg, and on the sole. After a month it was discovered that the os calcis was carious. It was exposed by longitudinal inci- sion and about -§rds of it gouged out. 171 days have elapsed (5th March) since the operation. The old sinuses still remain open, and a new gathering formed over the instep. 1 The cavity of the operation wound has not closed. The ankle is swollen but the joint is movable. He has improved in health, but disease of the tarsus still exists, and amputation will probably be necessary. 3. Refracture of the femur.—Hindu male, aet. 30. Had sustained a fracture of the middle of the right femur 3 months ago. It was unskil- fully treated, and united at a consider- able angle. The limb was 3 inches shorter( II ) than the other, and walking was accomplished i with great difficulty and distress. He was put under chloroform and traction was made in opposite direction by means of three folded ; sheets, the central being placed over the seat : of fracture and pulled towards the bend. The callus gave way, and by manipulation all deformity was corrected He was kept for a month on a long splint, and after 37 days’ stay in hospital was able to walk comfortably. One inch of shortening remained. He had no constitutional disturbance after the operation. Amputations. A For Injury. IV. A. /.—Primary amputation of arm.— Hindu male, set. 15. Fell from a mango tree three days before admission Sustained simple Colles’s fracture of both radii, compound fracture of lower end of right humerus and olecranon pro- cess. Right forearm much swollen and infiltrat- ed ; gangrene evidently impending. Amputation by modified circular method—oval skin flaps and circular division of muscles—of lower third of arm, under antiseptic precautions. Had fever and swelling of right knee for 10 days Some sloughing occurred in amputation wound which granulated and healed within a month Fracture of left radius underwent satisfactory union. Remained in hospital for 44 days. 2.—Primary of fingers, (a).— Hindu male, set. 35- Fingers of right hand crushed by a bone- crushing machine. Middle and ring fingers removed at metacarpo-phalangeal joint, index and little fingers at the base of the second phalanx. Operation followed by high fever and erysipelatous inflammation reaching as far as the axilla. This subsided and was followed by( 12 ) dysentery, which resisted treatment, and caused death by exhaustion 25 days after the opera- tion. b. Spaniard, aet 42. Right middle and ring fingers smashed. They were amputated at the base of the second phalanx ; wound healed by granulation. Had three attacks of haemoptysis (he suffered from chronic phthisis) during con- valescence. Discharged 45 days after operation. 3. Primary of leg.—Mahomedan male, aet 30 ; sustained a crush of left leg, smashing the bones and lacerating and bruising the soft parts. Occurred 18 hours before admission. Had suffered from shock and showed symptoms of febrile reaction. An attempt was made to save the limb by rest and antiseptics, but in two days the parts became gangrenous and constitutional disturbance serious. Amputation by the modified circular method was performed at the “ seat of election.” The flaps were infiltrated and the wound was left open ; boracic dressings used. He suffered from fever and bronchitis for a fortnight. Part of the posterior flap sloughed. Eventually the cavity was filled with granula- tions and the skin edges drawn together by cicatrization. An excellent stump resulted. He was detained for 139 days in hospital. 4. Primary of toes.—a. Hindu male, a;t. 35. Right great toe smashed and dorsum of foot lacerated by the fall of a heavy weight. Ampu- tation performed at the metatarso-phalangeal joint. Wound healed by granulation in 32: days. b. East Indian male, set. 45. Four outer toes of left foot smashed by the fall of a piece of sheet iron, which almost detached them. Amputation( 13 ) was performed at the metatarso-phalangeal joints and the wound allowed to heal by granu- lation as the flaps were short and bruised. Dis- charged with a sound and useful foot in 121 days. 5. Secondary of shoulder-joint for spreading , traumatic gangrene.-^Hindu female, aet. 32. Sus- . tained a fall off a terrace four days before admis- sion, resulting in compound fracture of both bones of the forearm; the whole arm had become ; gangrenous as high as the shoulder, and patient ' was in a very low state. Amputation was per- 1 formed through the shoulder joint, as offering the only chance of recovery. Haemorrhage was 1 restrained by the use of an elastic cord. No j reaction took place. Symptoms of tetanus ap- i peared next morning and she died about mid- 1 night—-39 hours after operation. The cut sur- ; faces had been coated with lymp. 6. Secondary of Arm.—Mahomedan male, : aet. 50. His left forearm had almost been bitten off by an alligator about 2 months before . admission. The wound had got covered with ; granulation and large masses of callus had form- : ed, but the part was riddled with sinuses and the tissues swollen by inflammatory infiltration. He 1 had .sub-acute trismus and slight fever. He was : kept under observation for 6 days, and no prcs- ; pect of recovery with a useful limb existing, amputation was performed through the elbow 1 joint, a circular division of the soft tissue having been made 2 inches below it. The wound 1 pursued an aseptic course, and he was discharged . well in 39 days. 7. Secondary of /^—Mahomedan male, aet. 45. left foot and ankle severely bruised by the( 14 ) fall of bricks. Destructive inflammation ensued, resulting in disorganization of the ankle joint'. Amputation was performed after a vain effort to save the limb, at the lower third of the leg by the modified circular plan. The wound healed by first intention, and he left hospital with a sound stump 40 days after operation B.—Amputations for disease. 8. Amputation of the upper extremity and scapu- la for sarcoma.—Hindu male, set. 20 ; sustained a fracture of right humerus near the shoulder in infancy. The upper part of the arm began to swell painfully 3 months ago, and the tumour has grown very rapidly. It was punctured twice, but nothing issued except sanguineous fluid. It is a diffuse fluctuating swelling, occu- pying the upper half of the arm and measuring 27 inches in circumference. Patient emaciated and pallid ; suffering great distress and subject to fever. The tumour was removed by ampu- tation of the upper extremity, including the scapula and outer half of the clavicle. He died of shock about an hour after completion of the operation. On post-mortem examination recent infarctions were found in both lungs. The tumour was a very soft diffuse sarcoma. Full details will be found in the January (1884) number of the Indian Medical Gazette. 9. Amputation of the lozver extremity and bones of the pelvis for sarcoma.—Hindu male, aet 43 ; sustained an injury of left hip 3 months ago, which was followed by a swelling which has undergone rapid increase of size. Admitted with an immense fluctuating enlarge- ment of left thigh, measuring 24 inches in cir- cumference ; no pulsation. Patient emaciated( i5 ) and suffering great distress from pain and fever. An exploratory incision was made which revealed a large ragged cavity containing blood and sur- rounding the bare and eroded shaft of the femur. Amputation was performed at the hip joint. The cortex of the hollow was found to consist of sarcoma. In order to extirpate it, it became necessary to remove by chisel, hammer, gouge and bone forceps the whole of the ischium and greater part of the ilium and pubis. Special precautions were taken to restrain haemorrhage, and very little blood was lost. Patient died of shock 5 hours after completion of the operation. Secondary dissemination had taken place in the lungs, and the inguinal glands were diseased. The tumour was found to be a very soft sarcoma. The case has been fully detailed in the issue of the Indian Medical Gazette for January 1884. [These two cases are very good illustrations of diffuse rapidly growing sarcoma in young subjects, hollowed out by haemorrhage and degeneration into large cavities and simulating cyst or aneurism. These cases are very common in Bengal, and early secondary visceral deposit takes place, so that the propriety of operation is more than doubtful.] 10. Amputation above the ankle (Syme's) for cancer.—Hindu male, aet. 40. Admitted with epithelioma of right foot developed on the cica- trix of a burn sustained in childhood. Health bad ; history of syphilis. Amputation at the ankle performed by Syme’s method. The cavity of the wound inflamed and suppurated, and some sloughing took place. Repair set in in course of a week, and the case promised well until syrup-( 16 ) toms of tetanus set in on the 15th day. These symptoms gradually became more severe, and death took place from exhaustion 24 days after operation and 9 after appearance of tetanus. 11. Amputation above the ankle (Syme's) for caries of tlie tarsus.—Hindu male, aet. 30 ; sus- tained a sprain of left ankle 6 months before ad- mission. Inflammation of the joint followed. Two incisions had been made by a medical man. He was kept under treatment for 3 months, during which rest, counter-irritation and constitutional treatment were thoroughly tried. Abscesses form- ed around the joint resulting in sinuses, and the joint became thoroughly disorganized, and the bones entering into its formation carious. Ampu- tation was performed at the ankle according to Syme’s plan. The amputation wound became the seat of unhealthy inflammation ; burrowing took place up the leg. Sinuses filled with gelatinous granulation material formed. The skin melted away, and the bones of the leg became bare and eroded. The patient had several attacks of diarrhoea and dysentery. After 7 months’ patient effort to induce repair, an amputation higher up Was considered necessary. The wound was kept aseptic throughout. Patient was found to be labouring under phthisis pulmonalis. 12. Re-amputation of the leg for caries.—The same subject. Amputation was performed at the middle of the leg by modified circular method under strict antiseptic precautions. The wound healed by first intention in 12 days. A fortnight later, after a smart attack of fever, a small abscess formed in the stump cavity, which discharged and healed. Patient subsequently, after the wound had completely and finally( 17 ) healed, had a violent attack of dysentery, suc- ceeded by phagsedenic ulceration of the mouth. He eventually died of phthisis. [This case is an admirable example of the diffi- culties with which surgery has to contend in a tuberculous subject.] 13. Amputation of the leg for disorganization and ankylosis of knee-joint.—a. Hindu male, aet 40. Had suffered for 10 or 12 years from articu- lar rheumatism. Three months ago inflammation of right knee-joint occurred, which resulted in ab- scess. This was opened, but great destruction of tissue took place on the inner aspect of the knee and thigh. On admission his knee-joint was found to be perfectly stiff and acutely flexed ; leg wasted and cedematous. A large unhealthy ulcer on the inner aspect of the thigh as far down as the head of the tibia. Hip-joint flexed and stiff. Amputation was performed below the knee-joint, which was ankylosed and obliterated. A circular incision was made and the flap dis- sected up ; the tibia was divided quite close to the joint. No stitches were inserted. The oper- ation was performed 4 days after admission, when the ulcer had taken on a healthy action. The flap was trained to cover the end of the bones and the ulcer. Nearly 9 months have now (6th March) elapsed since the operation was done. The ends of the bones have got covered, and the ulcer has nearly healed ; the hip joint has been straightened and the patient’s health greatly improved by tonics and generous diet. The wound remained sweet throughout, slight oozing took place for a few days. No con- stitutional disturbance of any consequence has occurred. Skin grafting has been resorted toC 18 ) to accelerate cicatrization ; the dressings were changed every 2nd, 3rd, or 4th day according to need, and are now removed weekly. He is able to get about with crutches, but eventually the condyles of the femur will afford excellent support for the body on an artificial limb, while the attachments of the extensors and hamstrings remain. [An amputation higher up would have healed faster, but it would have involved greater risk to life and left a less useful stump.] b. A native Christian girl, set 10. In- flammation of the knee-joint occurred owing to a fall in infancy, resulting in permanent flexion of the joint, dislocation backwards of the tibia and wasting of the leg. Three deep sinuses existed at the lower part of the thigh reaching the femur. Cavity of the joint filled up. Two oval flaps were taken from the sides of the leg, the tibia divided just below the joint and the flaps brought together so as to form a longitudinal wouud. some constitu- tional disturbance followed theoperation, and the cavity of the wound underwent suppurative inflammation. Healing finally took place by granulation,leaving a sound longitudinal cicatrix. Her constitutional state greatly improved under treatment, and she was able to walk with ease with the aid of a wooden leg. She remained in hospital for 123 days. [In both these cases special measures were used in order to retain the condyles of the femur as a basis of support and with success.] 14. Amputation of the thigh through the con- dyles (Carden's) for disorganized knee-joint.— A Hindu male, set. 40. History of syphilis and mercury; an attack of fever two months( 19 ) ago succeeded by two abscesses of the right leg and right arm, which burst spontaneously. Both knees swelled, and the right leg became permanently flexed. General health bad. On exploring the right knee-joint it was found full of pus. It was laid open by incision and found to be carious. Carden’s amputation was per- formed. A putrid sinus ran up the thigh. A counter opening was made at its upper end and a drainage tube inserted. No improvement follow- ed the operation, and he sank of exhaustion,with pronounced symptoms of septic fever ending in prostration, two days after the operation. b. Hindu male, set. 40. Had suffered from inflammation of the left knee-joint for 2 years. Became more swollen and painful three weeks before admission ; joint permanently flexed. It was straightened under chloroform, put on a Macintyre splint and treated by counter irritants locally, iodide of potassium being adminis- tered internally. Patient continued to suffer from fever and diarrhoea, which commenced be- fore admission. On exploration 3^ months after admission the joint was found to be full of pus. It was opened and drained antiseptically ; a large abscess formed at the back of the leg, and the joint was found to be disorganized and carious. The limb was removed by Carden’s method. The diarrhoea meantime turned into dysentery. The wound remained aseptic, but the posterior flap melted away and no attempt at repair took place. He rallied to some extent but eventually sank from wasting and prostra- tion 34 days after the operation. 15. Amputation of the right middle finger for necrosis.—Englishman, aet. 38. Had sustained( 20 ) a gun injury of the finger io months before admission. First inter-phalangeal joint disor- ganized and adjoining bones necrosed ; finger amputated through metacarpo-phalangeal joint by oval method. Satisfactory result in 29 days. [The death-rate among these amputations is very high, but in the fatal cases the operations were undertaken under exceedingly unpromis- ing circumstances. In these it was thought right to resort to amputation as offering the only chance of recovery. The antiseptic method was strictly carried out in all cases, but under conditions such as I have detailed, the use of antiseptics cannot materially affect the issue.] Tumours. V. A. 1. Scirrhus of mamma and axillary glands.—Hindu female, aet 40. Scirrhus of right breast, commenced a year ago, became open a fortnight ago. Several hard enlarged glands in axilla. Breast extirpated and axilla thoroughly cleared out. Wound not stitched ; dressed with boracic lint and carbolic gauze. Wound remained aseptic and filled up rapidly with granulation matter. No constitutional distur- bance. Left hospital in 76 days with a linear cicatrix. No sign of recurrence. 2. a. Epithelioma of right cheek and jaws.— Hindu male, set. 35. Admitted with a cancerous tumour of 3 months’ duration, involving the right cheek and both upper and lower jaws. Appear to have commenced on the inside of the cheek. The whole cheek was removed, with upper and right half of lower jaw and the right parotid and sub-maxillary glands. Flaps brought from the neck and opposite side of the face. Suffered from shock succeeded by reaction( 21 ) of an unsatisfactory kind (prostration with ex- citement). Died of exhaustion 6 days after the operation. The flaps retained their vitality, and there was no bleeding. b. Epithelioma of the lower lip.—Eurasian male, jet. 55 ; 1 ]/% months’ duration. Cancerous ulcer of left side of lower lip near angle ; sub- maxillary gland also enlarged and indurated, Growth removed by V-shaped incision. Gland dissected out. There was very free bleeding, and the facial artery required double ligation. Lip wound healed by first intention, the other in- flamed, suppurated and healed by granulation Discharged in 29 days. [Returned in 4 months with recurrence under, the jaw ; lip sound. Left half of body of lower jaw removed, and all the soft tissue covering it, also sublingual gland removed. Plastic opera- tion afterwards required to fill up the aperture. Made a good recovery.] c. Epithelioma of the tongue.—Hindu male, jet. 40. Disease of years’ standing. Im- plicates the dorsum and right side of the tongue ; the right sub-maxillary gland enlarged and indurated, also some lymphatic glands under the sterno-mastoid. Tongue secured by a stout ligature passed through its apex. Incision made in the middle line from the symphysis to the hyoid bone. This was deepened and the mylo- hyoid aponeurosis divided. Thegenio-hyo glossi were detached from their tubercles, the mucous membrane and palato and stylo glossi divided by scissors. The base of the tongue was trans- fixed by an aneurism needle introduced through the wound, through which also the chain of an ecraseur was passed and carried behind( 22 ) the needle. The organ was thus severed and removed through the mouth : no bleeding of consequence. The diseased sub-maxillary and lymphatic glands were subsequently removed by dissection. The facial artery had to be tied. Suffered from shock succeeded by reaction. The wound became sloughy and free secondary haemorrhage occurred on the 6th day. The clots were removed and the bleeding point secured, but he died of exhaustion on the morning of the 7th day. ci. Epithelioma of the larynx and pharynx.— Hindu male, st 40. Disease of 1 year’s duration ; hard vascular mammillated growth visible below right tonsil, folds of glottis felt thick, hard, irregular and indurated. Indurated swelling perceptible around and behind larynx on palpa- tion. An enlarged hard lymphatic gland behind right sterno-mastoid. Loss of voice and consi- derable dyspnoea. Anaemic and wasted. Oper- ation of extirpation of larynx performed ; thyroid body found healthy and not removed. Pharynx extensively diseased. Isolated by dissection and removed by ecraseur. Diseas- ed gland dissected out; wound left open. Suffered from shock, succeeded by smart reac- tion. Condition was improving and wound doing well, when on the morning of the 5th day second- ary haemorrhage occurred. It was stopped by pressure, but recurred violently in the afternoon and caused death. The bleeding was venous. No post-mortem was allowed. Had been nou- rished by enemata and liquids introduced into the aesophagus by means of a soft catheter. For full details of the case vide Indian Medical Gazette for December 1883, page 348.( 23 ) e. Epithelioma of the abdominal wall— Hindu male, set. 50. The actual cautery had been applied in several places over the spleen in his youth for enlargement of that organ. The can- cer commenced two years ago in the site of one of the cicatrices of these burns. It had attained the size of a full blown rose, diameter 3^ inches. Deeply movable. Enlarged veins in the neigh- bourhood ; general health fair. Dissected out. Abdominal muscles removed layer by layer till the transversalis fascia was reached. A bit of the rectus and its sheath had also to be cut away. Healed by granulation in 99 days. Suffered from bronchitis and diarrhcea during con- valescence. Skin grafting, both primary and secondary, failed owing to profuse discharge and the restlessness of the patient. No sign of recurrence. f. Epithelioma of the buttock.—Hindu male set. 21 ; commenced to grow from a wart two years ago, spread over the greater part of the right buttock ; diameter 6*4 inches. The mass was dissected off as in the preceding case. A circular incision was made through the skin well beyond the margin of the growth which was undermined from all sides, the incision being deepened according to the depth of the infil- tration. Three indurated inguinal glands were also removed. The wound healed by granula- tion in 118 days. Grafting was twice tried without success. There was no sign of recur- rence when the man left hospital. g. Epithelioma of the penis.—i. Hindu male, cet. 50 ; disease of 4 months’ growth ; had, gonorrhoea and bubo 3 years ago. Originated in the prepuce and involved only the skin which,( 24 ) together with a portion of the glans, was removed by knife. The wound healed in 23 days, and there was no appearance of recurrence when he left hospital. ii. Hindu male, set. 40. History of syphilis 15 years ago. Had undergone circumcision 3 years before admission, and suffered from suppurating bubo on the right groin and a large abscess of left thigh. Present disease com- menced one year ago at the glans, and anterior half of the body of the penis affected ; enlarged and indurated glands in left groin An oval skin incision was made well beyond the limit of disease, the corpus spongiosum separat- ed from the corpora cavernosa and divided at a lower level. The edges of the fibrous cylinder of the latter were brought together by catgut stitches to stop bleeding. The wound was finally stitched and the extremity of the corpus spongiosum brought out at its lower angle. The diseased inguinal glands were removed by dissection, one of them extended into the saphenous opening. The wounds healed by granulation. He left hospital in 38 days with a patent urethra, and no symptom of return of the disease. [This patient presented himself recently, about 7 months after the operation, with recur- rence in both the penis and groin. Nothing further could be done for him,] iii. Hindu male, set. 50. History of syphilis and salivation 30 years ago. Present disease of 4 months’ duration ; glans and anterior third of penis implicated. Disease removed by transverse incision beyond its limit ; urethra slit on under surface and stitched to skin ;( 25 ) wound left to granulate. It healed in 21 days, and there was no sign of recurrence at the time of patient’s discharge from hospital. iv. Hindu male, aet. 40. History of gonor- rhoea 18 months ago. Present disease of 6 months’ duration; involved the glans, and a small part of the adjacent body of the organ. Opera- tion as in case ii. Wound healed in 27 days— result satisfactory. No sign of recurrence. 3. a. Sarcoma of the sole of the foot.—Irish woman, aet. 55. Tumour of 7 years’ growth, re- moved 2 years ago, recurred in 2 months. Fungat- ing movable. Removed by elliptical incision, portion of tendon of flexor longus pollicis, which seemed to be diseased, also taken away. Wound remained aseptic and healed by granulation in 64 days. Was able to walk with the aid of a stick when she left hospital. b. Sarcoma of the face.—Mahomedan female, aet. 9. Admitted with a tumour of the size of an orange, of one month’s growth, implicating the right side of the face, the ear and the parotid region. It was soft, very vascular, ill-defined, and not movable. General health bad. An explora- tory incision was made and the tumour was found to implicate the parotid gland and mastoid process. It was cut and scraped away, bleed- ing points secured and chloride of zinc paste applied (equal parts of flour and chloride of zinc) to the surface of the wound to stop oozing and destroy the remains of the tumour. She died of primary shock on the afternoon of the day of operation. c. Sarcoma of the neck— Hindu male, aet. 40 Fluctuating swelling, of 3 months’ duration, on left side of neck ; skin tense, red and shining ;( 2 6 ) had been punctured and a quantity of sanious fluid let out ; lymphatic glands on both sides of the neck enlarged. Respiration and deglutition impeded. An incision was made under antiseptic precautions and a lot of curdy sanious matter evacuated ; a drainage tube was inserted. The cavity inflamed, and to relieve tension another incision was made. The base of the cavity meantime became broader and harder, and deep infiltration of the neck proceeded. As the tumour was obviously a soft sarcoma and beyond the reach of safe or thorough removal, no further step was taken, and patient was allowed to go home. B.—Non-malignant tumours. 4. Fibroma of face.—Hindu male, set. 40. Had a small lump in front of his right ear from boyhood ; began to increase rapidly after an attack of fever a year ago. Skin adherent and ulcerated in two or three spots, base movable. General health good. Removed by incision Part of the parotid gland, which looked suspi- cious, also removed. Operation followed by facial paralysis. Wound healed by granulation in 74 days. 5. Lymphangioma of arm.—English child, 13 months old. A soft swelling of 6 months’ growth on the inside of right arm, above the elbow, implicated skin and subcutaneous areolar tissue. Removed by elliptical incision. Tumour cavernous, cells filled with clear fluid. Wound healed by first intention in 10 days. 9. Lymphadenoma of neck.—Hindu malo, aet. 36. Large multiple lymphatic tumours on right side of neck, observed 9 months ago ; recent increase rapid ; causing much pain by( 27 ) pressure, and considerable difficulty in breathing and swallowing. Straight incision made in front of the sterno-mastoid and 13 glandular masses enucleated. Stopped breathing in the course of the operation. Breathing re-established by arti- ficial respiration and operation completed. Did not recover consciousness, became asphyxiated, and had spasm of the glottis. Tracheotomy performed after forcible traction of the tongue by forceps, &c., failed to relieve the obstruction. Artificial respiration diligently carried out by direct method without avail. On post-mortem examination heart found dilated and fatty. All the signs of death by asphyxia present. No injury of pneumogastric or other impor- tant structure. Lungs congested. No blood in air tubes. 7. Angioma {venous) of abdominal wall.— Mahomedan male, set. 35. Admitted with a small tumour over the xyphoid cartilage, of 5 years’ duration, bleeding profusely through a small orifice—dilated veins coursing up to it from below ; burst 6 days ago. It was laid open and a cavity was found, out of which venous blood gushed freely. Pressure below it restrained the flow, and a strong catgut thread was passed deeply through the abdominal wall on this as- pect of the tumour, and tied over a roll of bora- cic gauze. This caused the welling to cease. A graduated compress of lint soaked in tinct. per. perchlorid. was placed on the tumour. He had a severe attack of fever the same day. Abdomen became tympanitic ; right lung pneu- monic. Symptoms of typhoid prostration ensued and he diec 51 hours after operation. No post-mortem examination was allowed.( 28 ) 8. a. Papilloma of right leg.—Hindu male, mt. 55. A warty growth of two years’ duration, : implicating the skin of the lower aspect of right leg lower third. It was removed antiseptically and a number of fragments of skin were grafted by means of a catgut thread on the exposed fascia. He had a severe attack of fever, with rigor, on the second day, followed by pneumonia of right lung, which ended fatally 5 days after the operation. The great majority of - the grafts were found to have retained their vitality and become embedded in lymph. b Papilloma of penis and scrotum.—Mah©- medan male, set. 28. Had a venereal sore on the penis about a year ago. Warts began to grow on the prepuce about 4 months back, and they gradually extended over the penis and scrotum, which were now thickly covered with vascular warty masses. Skin of scrotum consi- derably thickened. Gians concealed by a large bunchy mass of preputial papillomata. Opera- tion performed as for scrotal tumour Parts covered with sound cicatrix in 58 days. 9. External and Internal piles.—a. Jew, aet. 30. Internal piles of uncertain duration ; painful defecation and prolapsus ; no bleeding. Three tumours removed by clamp and cautery. Re- covered in 9 days. b. Hindu male, aet. 55. Internal piles of 5 years’ standing ; bled occasionally.—Removed by clamp and cautery. Good result in 11 days. c. Hindu male, set. 40. Complete fistula of 8 months and external piles of 2 years’ duration. Fistula divided and piles removed by scissors. Recovered and left hospital in 12 days.( 29 ) 10. a. Elephantiasis of scrotum.—i. Mahome- dan male, set 20. Tumour of 5 years’ duration ; history of periodical fever, orchitis and hydro- cele, which was tapped and injected with iodine. Health good. Usual operation performed. Parts healed in 72 days—no constitutional dis- turbance. Tumour weighed 2lbs. 1 oz. 11. Hindu male, set. 30. Tumour involving both penis and scrotum, of years’ duration. History of syphilis and periodic fever. Scrotum covered with cicatrices. Usual operation. Slight fever for two days. Wound was pursuing an aseptic course when tetanus set in 5 days after operation, and proved fatal next day. Tumour weighed 2 lbs. iii. Burmese male, set. 25. Tumour involving both penis and scrotum, of 1 year’s duration. History of syphilis and periodic fever. Usual operation. Wound healed kindly and without constitutional disturbance, but an attack of syphilitic psoriasis detained him in hospital for 91 days after operation. Weight of tumour 15 oz. iv. Hindu male, set. 25. Tumour involving both penis and scrotum, of 1 year’s duration. History of syphilis, gonorrhoea and double suppurating bubo. Usual operation performed. Hydrocele on right side ; testicle wanting on left Got fever with rigor 4 days after operation, succeeded by sloughing of the wound and erysi- pelatous inflammation in its neighbourhood. This delayed recovery, and he remained 99 days in hospital. Tumour weighed 1 lb. 8 oz. v. Hindu male, set. 60. Tumour involving penis and scrotum, of 12 years’ duration. History of periodic fever and hydrocele. Subject( 30 ) to right inguinal hernia. Usual operation per- formed. Oblique incision made over right cord. Sac of hernia dissected out and removed after tying the neck, pillars brought together by catgut. Fever with rigor set in on the evening of the day of operation and continued to increase daily. Sloughing cellulitis attacked the wound and spread into the right abdominal wall requiring free incision. Prostration ensued and he died of septicaemia 7 days after operation. No sign of peritonitis on post-mortem exami- nation. Wound gangrenous ; the gangrene had extended along both cords. Large fibrinous clots in right cavities, smaller in left. Tumour weighed 3 lbs. 6 ozs. vi. Hindu male, jet. 30. Tumour of penis and scrotum, of two years’ growth. History of periodic fever. Health good. Usual operation. Hydrocele on right side. Left testis atrophied. Complete and satisfactory recovery in 91 days. Tumour weighed 1 lb. vii. Hindu male, aet. 45. Tumour of penis and scrotum, of 5 years’duration. History of periodic fever. Surface of scrotum exudes fluid. Operation as usual. Double hydrocele. Wound remained aseptic and healed completely in 91 days. Tumour weighed 1 lb. 6 oz. viii. Armenian male, aet. 42. Tumour impli- cating both penis and scrotum, of five years’ ' duration. History of periodic fever, hydrocele, syphilis, gonorrhoea and bubo ; parts inflamed on admission ; treated for some time w'ith lead locally and iodide of potassium internally. Usual operation performed. Had smart reactive fever, which subsided. Was doing well, when tetanus set in 10 days after operation and proved fatal in 6 days. Tumour weighed 1 lb. 8 oz.( 3i ) ix. Hindu male, set 40. Tumour of both penis and scrotum, of 3 years’duration. History of periodic fever. Scrotum covered with vesicles containing lymph. Usual operation ; haematocele on right and hydrocele on left side. Slight reac- tive fever. Recovered in 65 days. Tumour weighed 3 lbs. ioz. x. Hindu male, oet. 40. Case of elephanti- asis of scrotum only. Slough on the fundus of it ; hydrocele on left side ; recent venereal sore and bubo. General health bad. The diseased parts were removed by an elliptical incision at the root of the scrotum. The penis was not decorticated ; hydrocele emptied and redundant tunica removed ; right tunica adherent. Pockets made for testes and side flaps drawn over them in the usual manner. Operation succeeded by strong fever, which did not subside. Penis swelled and became gangrenous ; wound got sloughy. An unhealthy abscess formed in the abdominal wall. Type of fever became low. Died of septic blood poisoning in 11 days. Tumour weighed 10 oz. xi. Mahomedan male, ret. 50. Tumour involved both penis and scrotum, of one year’s duration. History of syphilis and gonorrhaea in early life, and periodic fever accompanying growth of the tumour. Vesicles on scrotum. Usual operation. Slight reactive fever after it. Wound remained aseptic and healed in 61 days. Tumour weighed 1 lb. 4 oz. xii. Hindu male, aet. 27. Admitted with hernia testis of left side, consequent on asbscess of the tunica vaginalis and sloughing of the scrotum. Had destructive venereal sores on penis, which caused loss of most of its integu-( 32 ) ment. Suffered also from gonorrhoea which was succeeded by an abscess at the root of the penis, which bursting gave rise to a permanent fistula. Scrotal skin much thickened and covered with cicatrices. Scrotal integument removed by elliptical incisions at its neck ; testes dissected out ; substance of left herniated through a hole in the tunica albuginea which was freely notched ; testes stitched in pockets in the usual way ; part of the thickened skin of the penis also removed. Wound healed kindly in 34 days. The fistula remained patent. Tumour weighed 8 ounces. xiii. Hindu male, set. 33. Scrotal tumour of three years’ and right oblique inguinal hernia of 4 years’ duration. The hernia got stran- gulated three years ago, and an operation was performed by Dr. Partridge for its radical cure (probably Wood’s). It descended a month after he left hospital. A truss does not prevent descent. History of periodical fever. Scrotum removed by elliptical incisions meeting at the root of the penis, and perinseum and sac dissected out ; cord spread out over its posterior surface. After ligaturing the neck of the sac and amputating its body, the loop slipped and several coils of small intestines protruded. These were returned, the edges of the peritoneal opening were caught by artery forceps and the neck of the sac thus secured was transfixed, and securely ligatured a second time. The pillars were brought together with catgut. The right testis was now examined with care, and as the cord was very long and scattered, and no pulsation was felt in the spermatic artery, castration was resorted to. The remaining testis were then stitched as( 33 ) usual in the pockets which had been prepared for them. Tne whole proceeding was conducted under strict antiseptic precautions. Patient was very restless after the operation, and the abdomen became tympanitic ; this subsided on the third day after a purgative. The wound remained sweet and was undergoing satisfactory repair when, on the 7th day of operation, tetanus set in and proved fatal in 18 hours. The tumour weighed 61bs. 14 oz. A post- mortem examination was not permitted. xiv. Hindu male, aet. 30. Admitted with putrid hsematocele of left side, hydrocele on right, and severe inflammatory swelling of scro- tum. Suffered from high fever of remittent type and was very low. Hsematocele freely laid open and emptied. Much oozing from divided tunica, which was enormously thickened. This was stopped by passing a continuous catgut suture through the membrane about half an inch from the edge. Counter-openings had to be made to liberate pus which formed in the cellular tissue of the scrotum. The lining membrane of the sac came away as an entire bladder like sac. The wound eventually granu- lated and filled up,the fever subsided,and his con- stitutional state greatly improved. One monht after the first operation, a second was performed for the purpose of removing the hypertrophied scrotum. This was accomplished by elliptical in- cisions as in case xiii. The right tunica was laid open and emptied of the clear fluid which it con- tained. The redundant portion of it was excised. The remains of the thickened left tunica were also pared off. The testes were then stitched in perinaeal pockets as usual. A consider-( 34 ) able amount of blood was lost. The operation was followed by high fever, which did not subside. The wound became sloughy and the neighbouring skin gangrenous. The gangrene spread, patient became low and delirious and died of prostration 6 days after the last opera- tion. The tumour weighed 13T2 oz. xv. Eurasian male, a;t, 28. Hypertrophy of penis and scrotum, of 12 years’ duration, com- 1 menced after an attack of dengue fever. Suffered 1 from fever at irregular intervals. Hydrocele of right side, tapped 10 days before admission. An abscess formed on the right side of the scrotum, which was laid open. Penis decorticated and scro- tum removed in the usual way. Hsematocele of right side ; slight attack of reactive fever. Wound remained sweet and was healing satisfactorily when he got an attack of tetanus 47 days after operation. This developed into a severe and critical illness, from which he re- covered. Discharged well in 89 days. Tumour weighed 1 ft 2 oz. xvi. Hindu ma'e, set. 35. Hypertrophy of penis and scrotum, of 3 years’duration. History of fever; venereal sores 3 years ago. Usual oper- ation. Slight hydrocele on right side. Left tunica adherent. No fever after operation. Recovered in 59 days- Tumour weighed 6 ft>s. 8 oz. xxii. Mahomedan male, set 30. Tumour im- plicating penis and scrotum, of \l/2 years’ dura- tion. Gonorrhoea and bubo 10 years ago. Sub- ject to occasional attacks of fever. Skin of scro- tum scaly, occasionally exuding watery fluid. Usual operation. Double hydrocele. Slight reactive fever. Recovered in 56 days. Tumour weighed 10 oz.( 35 ) xviii. Hindu male, set. 38. Sustained an in- jury of the scrotum in boyhood, and since then has had an oblique hernia of the right side and considerable enlargement of the testes and their coverings. Has suffered much from fever off and on. One and-a-half years ago the right scro- tum burst, and has been discharging dark offen- sive matter ever since. Scrotum removed in the usual way ; penis not decorticated. Haema- tocele on right side laid open, tunica pared and scraped down. Incision made over right cord ; sac dissected out tied and amputated. Suffered from strong fever for a week. Wound became sloughy ; the sloughs separated and healthy granulations formed. Absconded in 55 days with the wound quite superficial and nearly healed ; no descent of hernia. Tumour weighed 2 lbs. 4 oz. The case is detailed at greater length in the Indian Medical Gazette for December last. xiv. Hindu male, set. 35. Hypertrophy of penis and scrotum, of 5 years’ duration. History of periodic fever and hydrocele. Usual operation. Very large hydrocele on right side, smaller on left. Slight re-active fever. Good result in 80 days. Tumour weighed 4 lbs. 6 oz. xx. Hindu male, aet. 35. Tumour of scro- tum, of 4 years’ duration. History of fever and double hydrocele ; inguinal glands enlarged. Scrotum amputated. Double abscess of scrotum •and tunica found, tunica pared down and opera- tion completed as usual. Suffered from fever for a week. Made a good recovery in 61 days. Tumour weighed lib. 7 oz. xxi. Native Christian male, ret. 50. Tumour involves both penis and scrotum ; had venereal ;sore and suppurating bubo 25 years ago. His-( 36 ) tory of fever. Usual operation ; healed in 81 days. Tumour weighed ilb 12 oz. xxii. Native Christian male, set. 45. The scrotum was amputated for elephantiasis by Dr. Gayer 7 years ago. The prepuce has now got enlarged. This was removed by dissection and the wound allowed to heal by granulation, which took place in 25 days. xxii. Hindo male, set 50. Tumour of pe- nis and scrotum, of 2 years’ duration. History of venereal sore, suppurating bubo and gonor- rhoea, also of occasional fever. Skin of scrotum covered with vesicles discharging clear fluid. Usual operation. Satisfactory result in 75 days. Tumour weighed 1 lb. 6. oz. xxiv. Hindu male, set. 55. Tumour involv- ing both penis and scrotum, of 10 months’ dura- tion. History of gonorrhoea and mercury and occasional fever. Usual operation. Large hae- matocele on right side. The cord of this side swelled greatly after operation. This subsided very gradually by absorption. He is still in hospital (72 days since operation) but very nearly recovered. Tumour weighed 4lbs. [The operation in these cases was performed after the plan described in last year’s report. In some cases a transverse incision was made into the groin opposite the base of the penis on each side. This facilitated the adjustment of the flaps and left the root of the penis free. The dressings used consisted of a layer of boracic gauze (thin muslin spread with boracic oint- ment) next the wound ; a layer of borated lint outside of that, several pieces of carbolic gauze outside of that, a large piece of oiled paper to cover the whole and a bandage to keep(them in position. They were generally changed every day for the first fortnight, then every second )■ ^ or third day according to the amount of discharge; the spray was used during operation or change of dressing. In the great majority of cases,— when not otherwise stated—the wound remain- ed aseptic and did not suppurate. This is a i great comfort to the patient and dresser. It i contributes also to the salubrity of the ward, t Great care was taken to keep the penis isolated i and prevent its retraction during cicatrization. 1 When it was necessary adhesions at its root j were freely disrupted or divided by finger or scissors. This process of maintaining the isola- i tion of the penis greatly retards final recovery, but it procures a much more natural and useful state of parts. The scrotal wound, in aseptic cases, generally heals in a fortnight or three weeks ; the rest of the time is consumed in cicatrization of the penis. In six cases (Nos. x, xii, xiii, xviii, xix, xx,) the scrotum only was removed, the penis being left untouched. In one case (No. xxii) the skin of the penis only was removed. It was a case of recurrence after a former amputation of the scrotum only. In many cases the tumour was complicated with hydrocele, and in a few with haematocele. The lightest tumour weighed 8 oz. and the heaviest 6 lbs. 8 oz., the average being 2 lbs. 2% oz.' The mean period of detention in hospital was (excluding fatal cases) 6g days. The three cases which were complicated with hernia will be subsequently referred to. The death-rate was high—25 per cent. In three cases the cause was tetanus, and in three septic poisoning, associated with putrefaction and gangrene.]( 38 ) b. Elephantiasis of the labia.—i. Mahomedan female, aet. 28. Tumour implicating both labia majora, of 2 years’ duration. History of venereal sores and suppurating bubo. Base of tumour transfixed by a needle and tied tightly with, stout silk ; mass dissected off. Slight reactive fever. Wound healed by granulation in 40 days. Tumour weighed 3 lbs. 4^ oz. ii. Hindu female, aet. 24. Hypertrophy of both labia minora, of 4 years’ duration, fol-, lowing venereal sores. Base of nymphae secured by Smith’s clamp ; tumours removed and stump cauterized with a red hot iron. Recovered in 19 days. Removal of Calculi. 1. Removal of urethral calculus by forceps — Hindu male, aet. 36. Suffering from difficul- ty in making water for 8 days. Stone detected in urethra, impacted about 5 inches from the orifice ; removed by long forceps. Patient left hospital the same day. 2. Removal of urethralcalculas by incision.— Hindu male, aet 45. Suffered from pain and difficulty in passing water for 15 days Stone detected in urethra far back. Aftera vain attempt to remove it by forceps, perinaeal section was performed, and a stone, the size of a coffee bean, extracted. Recovered in 17 days. Full sized catheter passed occasionally to maintain patency of canal. 3. Lithotomy.—a Hindu male, aet 45. Symp- toms of one year’s duration. Large stone detected in prostatic part of urethra; removed by perinaeal section. A second stone found on exploring the bladder. Wound enlarged, prostate nicked and stone removed by forceps. Operation( 39 ) (followed by no constitutional disturbance; began !to make water through penis 13 days after operation. Perinaeal wound had almost closed in 45 days, when he got severe rigor and fever, followed by double pneumonia which proved fatal in 5 days. Stones uric ; weighed I oz., 6 drs. 10 grs. b. Hindu male, set. 50. Symptoms of two years’ duration. Lithotrite introduced and stone found too large. Bilateral lithotomy performed and a calculus weighing 7 oz. and 3 drs. extract- ed with great difficulty. Operation succeeded iby rigor and fever. He became low and deli- rious ; had hiccough and tenderness over the ihypogastrium. Tongue dry, fissured and coated. He was removed in a moribund state by his rela- tions 11 days after the operation. 4. Litholapaxy.—Mahomedan male, aet. 55. Symptoms of one year’s duration. General health feeble. Litholapaxy performed by Dr. R. C. Sanders. Lithotrite introduced thrice and eva- cuator4 times. Operation lasted 30 minutes ; followed by strong rigor and fever and pain over bladder, urine ropy, foetid and ammoniacal. Diarrhoea and prostration ensued. Scrotum and penis became gangrenous before death, which happened 22 days after operation. On post-mor- tem examination the dura mater and surface of the brain were found to be congested. Upper lobe of right lung much congested and contained a large cavity ; decolorized clots in right auricle and left ventricle, pyaemic abscesses in both kidneys. Peritoneum over bladder congested. Bladder hypertrophied and contracted ; mucous membrane inflamed and covered with spots of ecchymosis. A piece of phosphatic calculus, size( 40 ) of a horse bean, found in it and some minute phosphatic grit ; two ragged cavities in base oi bladder ; urethra lacerated and gangrenous; gangrene extended over Poupart’s ligament on right side. Patches of congestion throughout small intestine. VI. Removal of foreign body from (Esophagus by probang.—Hindu male child, set. two years, Two days before admission attempted to swal- low a guava fruit which he had partially mas- ficated. It stuck in his gullet. He had vomited fragments of it, but was unable to swallow. Water taken into the oesophagus was immediate- ly rejected. A whalebone sponge probang well oiled was passed and the foreign body dislodged and pushed into the stomach. He was now able to swallow and retain food and water. Left hospital next day apparently quite well. Incisions. VII. r. Tracheotomy for diphtheria.—Eura- sian child, aet 2*4 years ; disease of 5 days, duration ; difficulty of breathing extreme. Tra- chaea opened below the isthmus of the thy- roid and tube inserted. Breathing relieved, but patient died of exhaustion in sixteen hours. [Tracheotomy was also performed in case V. 6. supra.] 2. Exploratory Laparotomy.—Mahomedan male, aet. 40. Admitted with a large abdomi- nal aneurism of uncertain duration, occupying the left side of the abdomen from the umbili- cus to the erector spinae, and from the ribs to the crest of the ileum. It was undergo- ing rapid enlargement and causing great dis- tress. The abdomen was opened with antisep- tic precautions under the impression that it( 4* ) might have originated from dilatation of the left renal or the inferior mesenteric artery, and a ligature might be placed between the aorta and the cavity of the aneurism. On exploration by the hand it was found to spring from the abdominal aorta by a wide opening on each side of which existed a large atheromatous plate. Large dilated arteries, branches of the inferior mesenteric coursed over the anterior aspect of the tumour. The wound was carefully closed and dressed antiseptically. He died of exhaustion 56 hours after the operation. No sign of peritonitis was found on post- mortem examination, and the lips of the wound were glued together with lymph. The aneurism had grown from the left side of the abdominal aorta, and was filled with clot. The aorta was dilated and atheromatous throughout. Orifice of aneurism admitted three fingers. Last dorsal and two first lumbar vertebrae eroded. Lower lobe of right lung congested. Left kidney fatty. 3. Herniotomy.—a. Hindu male, aet. 40. Admitted with strangulated right inguinal hernia. Was subject to a permanent swelling in right groin, which had become suddenly larger, with pain, on the morning of day of admission when he was returning from bathing in a tank. Taxis applied and tumour reduced in size. Some material remained in the sac, apparently solid. Bowels opened by enema ; vomited thrice between 10 P.M. and 4 A.M. Abdomen tympanitic, pulse excited. Reduction being incomplete and symptoms of obstruction existing, operation was resorted to. An oblique incision made over right cord. Sac exposed and. reduction being still impossible, opened. It contained an empty( 42 ) knuckle of small intestine and some omentum and mesentery. Intestine much congested and ecchymosed. Stricture in neck of sac. This was divided and the contents returned. The slit in the neck of the sac was stitched, the neck tied, and the rest of it dissected out and ampu- tated. Boundaries of canal brought together by catgut ligature and external wound sutur- ed. Operation performed under strict antisep- tic precautions and wound dressed with boracic lint and carbolic gauze. Tympanitis gradually subsided. Wound remained aseptic and healed by first intention, except where drain emerged. Had fevei on 3rd, 4th and 5th days ; subsided under salines. Again on 8th day. Bowels became regular ; some tendency to looseness. Symp- toms of tetanus appeared 9 days after operation. The disease quickly assumed a severe form and proved fatal on next day—10 days after Operation. Omental adhesions were found opposite the external wound. A coil of small intestine was also adherent in this position, its wall softened and about to give way. No gene- ral peritonitis. Left lung in state of red hepa- tization throughout. b. Mahomedan male, aet. 60. Oblique right in- guinal hernia, of one month’s duration ; came down 13 hours before admission, and could not be reduced. Abdomen tympanitic ; hiccough but no vomiting. No stools since descent. Pulse small, feeble, excited ; tumour dull, no im- pulse. Taxis after ice failing, herniotomy was per- formed 18 hours after descent. Sac opened, contained 2 oz. of dark offensive fluid ; a coil of small intestine 4^4 inches long and some mesen- tery ; stricture in neck of sac. Omentum reduced,.( 43 ) Bowel soft, gave way under manipulation. The gangrenous bowel was excised, and the orifices stitched together and to the neck of the sac by continuous catgut suture for artificial anus. No faeces came for 2 days. Rectal bougies were passed through the proximal orifice and a few ounces of faeculent material followed. Became low and had stercoraceous vomiting. Died of obstruction and prostration 4 days after opera- tion. On post-mortem examination, the ends of the bowel were found united together and to the neck of the ^.ac by lymph ; no faeculent material in peritoneal cavity ; acute peritonitis ; small intestine distended, congested and adherent; fibrinous coagulae in the cavities of the heart. c. Mahomedan male, set. 55. Right oblique, inguinal hernia, of 5 years’ duration; 6 days down. Tumour hard, dull, tender, without impulse ; abdomen tympanitic ; countenance anxious ; pulse small, feeble and frequent; stercoraceous vomiting ; bowels obstructed. Sac exposed and opened ; contained 10 ounces of sanguineous serum and 3 inches of deeply congested small intestine. An enlarged mesenteric gland impeded reduction ; stricture in neck of sac freely divided. Sac dissected out, ligatured at neck, stump reduced ; pillars brought together and wound sutured. Counter-opening made in scrotum and drainage tube inserted. No sign of improvement followed the operation, except that several loose stools were passed. Vomiting continued and the abdomen remained puffed and tender. Sank exhausted 4 days after operation. Post-mortem examination not permitted. d, Mahomedan male, get. 60. Double scrotal hernia, of 20 years’ duration. Both descendedC 44 ; 6 days ago and could not be reduced. Bowels had not acted since descent; vomiting stercoraceous material ; hiccough setting in ; abdomen tympanitic. Temp. 9720, pulse small and frequent. Right hernia hard, tender, without impulse ; left loose. Labouring under double hydrocele. The hydrocele of the right side was tapped and emptied. Sac exposed and opened ; contained a large quantity of sanguine- ous serum and 4 inches of congested and inflamed small interim. ; stricture outside of sac freely divided. The intestine was denuded of lymph and returned. A finger was passed into the opposite sac and traction from within com- bined with taxis failed to empty the sac. The left hydrocele was also tapped and emptied. The right sac was next dissected out, tied at the neck and the stump reduced. The pillars were brought together with catgut and the wound stitched. A counter-opening was made in the scrotum and a drainage tube inserted. The operation was followed by high fever, sloughing cellulitis in the neighbourhood of the wound, and symptoms of peritonitis. These symptoms subsided in 14 days, and the wound became clean and began to granulate. The other rupture was returned by taxis 17 days after operation. A few days after a collection of matter was found in the scrotum and freely laid open. The wound healed and the patient was discharged 49 days after operation with a double truss. The canal on the right side seemed to be obliterated, and no sign of reproduction of hernia existed when he left hospital. The left hernia was fully com- manded by the truss. Full details of this impor- tant case will be found in the Indian Medical Gazette for February 1884.( 45 ) e. Hindu male, set. 60. Left oblique ingui- nal hernia, of 15 years’ duration; down 15 hours. Bowels obstructed ; vomited 4 times ; abdomen tympanitic; pulse not much disturbed ; tongue moist. Taxis with ice and chloroform failing, the sac was exposed, stricture outside of neck divided, and contents relieved ; some- thing remained in the sac and it was opened. This was found to be omentum, which was adherent to the inside of the neck and to the herniated bowel, whose coils were also adherent. Adhesions were separated by knife and finger ; several vessels requiring ligature. The sac was next dissected out, tied at the neck and ampu- tated, and the operation completed in the usual way. Operation followed by slight reactive fever. Wound remained aseptic and healed most- ly by first intention. Patient left hospital after 26 days with a fine linear cicatrix in left groin, and no apparent tendency to recurrence. Canal firmly closed. The case has been recorded in greater detail in the issue of the Indian Medi- cal Gazette for February 1884. 4. Operations for the radical care of hernia.— a. Mahomedan male, aet. 28. Oblique right inguinal hernia, of one year’s duration ; not entire^ reducible ; no strangulation ; health good ; subject to bronchitis. Sac exposed and opened ; omental adhesions within sac. These were divided and the omentum returned. The operation was then completed in the usual man- ner. Slight fever and swelling of scrotum for a few days. Suffered also from an attack of diarrhoea about the third week. Wound com- pletely healed and patient discharged in 60 days. Linear cicatrix in groin ; canal closed ;( 46 ) no impulse or tendency to recurrence. Recom- mended to wear a truss. b. Jew, aet. 28. Right oblique inguinal hernia, of 3 years’ duration, not commanded by a truss. Usual operation performed. Omentum found adherent to the neck of the Sac, tied and divided and reduced. Fevered after operation. Abdomen swelled painfully ; scrotum became cedematous. Wound healed by first intention, but became putrid and inflamed ; suppurated and gaped. It then healed slowly by granula- tion ; had a slight attack of diarrhoea for a week 17 days after operation. Discharged in 55 days with wound soundly healed and canal closed. c. Englishman, aet. 18, a sailor. Right oblique inguinal hernia, of 5 months’ duration. Had been down for 12 hours ; was reduced by taxis after the application of ice. Usual operation per- formed. Had fever and bronchitis for a week after. Scrotum swelled and suppuration took place in the cavity, out of which the sac had been dissected. Wound healed by granulation. Discharged in 20 days ; result satisfactory. d. Englishman, aet. 23. Right oblique in- guinal hernia, of 10 months’ duration. Usual operation performed. Had fever for 10 days, wound inflamed and suppurated, and healed by granulation. Discharged in 40 days with a sound cicatrix and closed canal ; no sign of re- currence. e. Hindu male, aet. 45. Right oblique in- guinal hernia, of two months’ duration. Usual operation performed ; slight reactive fever. Wound remained aseptic and healed mostly by first intention. Discharged in 37 days ; result very satisfactory.( 47 ) f. Bhootea, male, set. 24. Right oblique inguinal hernia, of 16 years’ standing. Usual operation performed, opening made in scrotum and tube inserted, no constitutional disturbance. Wound healed in 12 days. Discharged in 36 days ; linear cicatrix ; canal closed ; no impulse. Provided with a truss. g. Mahomedan male, set. 25. Right oblique inguinal hernia, of 3 years’ duration. Painful and irreducible on admission. Ice applied and tumour reduced by taxis. Suffered from fever and abdominal pain for 25 days. The usual operation for radical cure was then performed; Wound healed by first intention in 10 days, symptoms of tetanus appeared 11 days after operation: was removed against advice and re- monstrance by his friends three days afterwards with the disease fully developed. k. Mahomedan male, set. 35. Right oblique inguinal hernia, of one year’s duration. Rupture irreducible for an hour before admission ; symp- toms of strangulation ; reduced by taxis after ap- plication of ice. Usual operation for radical cure performed 4 days after. Wound healed by first intention. Discharged in 29 days. Result very satisfactory. [There are 16 cases included in these abstracts in which an operation was performed for the cure of hernia. In three of the cases (V. 10 a. v. xiii and xviii) the hernia existed in conjunc- tion with elephantiasis of the scrotum. In one of them the case was further complicated by the existence of a large open hseomatcele. I these cases the operation for the cure of the her- 1 nia was combined with ablation of the elephan- tiasis; in one instance both penis and scrotum( 48 ) were decorticated; in the other two the scrotum only was removed—the skin of the penis being healthy. The additional step of dissecting out the sac, tying it at the neck, cutting the rest off and approximating the pillars can be carried out with great ease ; a prolongation of the incision along the cord being all that is requisite One of these cases (v.) was a complete failure. The wound became putrid and gangrenous cellu- litis set in ; severe septic fever ensued and death resulted. Another case was a complete success (xviii), notwithstanding that a putrid haema- tocele had to be dealt with. The third case fxiii) occupies an intermediate position; The wound was aseptic and doing well when tetanus attacked and carried off the patient. It will be observed that castration was found necessary in this case. As a matter of ex- perience I have found that the operation of castration is very frequently followed by teta- nus. There can be no doubt that the combina- tion of these two operations—ablation of scrotal tumour and extirpation of a hernial sac—is a serious procedure ; but in these cases a truss is of very little service and strangulation a more probable contingency than in simple hernia. In five of the cases operation had to be re- sorted to for the relief of strangulation. In all the sac was opened. In four of these the sac was tied and amputated. Two of them (a., c.) died, one of tetanus and one of peritonitis. Two (,de.) recovered under very unpromising circum- tances, &c. In the fifth case the gut was found gangrenous and steps had to be taken to es- tablish an artificial anus. These were unsuccess- ful in consequence of peritonitis and paralysis of the intestines.( 49 ) The experience furnished by these four cases is in favor of resorting to the further measure of extirpating the sac when operation is re- quired for the relief of strangulation, more espe- cially if the sac has to be opened. Eight oper- ations were performed for the radical cure of rupture, according to the plan described in previous reports. The only changes of proce- dure which additional experience has taught are these,—(i) opening into the sac at once no danger arises from so doing if antiseptic precautions are followed, and it greatly facili- tates dissecting out the sac and saves handling and tearing of the fasciae ; the descent of intes- tine is prevented by sponge pressure on the can- al ; (2) making in every case a counter-opening in the fundu^ of the scrotum to drain the cavity left by removal of the sac and inserting a drain- age tube into it. This tube may be removed in two or three days according to the amount of discharge. I consider this a great improvement in the operation. The result of the operations of the year is very satisfactory. One man unfortunately got tetanus while he was rapidly recovering from the operation. His friends insisted on removing him, and the final issue of the case could not be ascertained. All the other cases succeeded well. In one case the wound became putrid and suppurated ; and in two the wound inflamed and suppurated without putrefaction. The average age of the patients was 28 years, and the average period of deten- tion in hospital (excluding the tetanus case) ^9 days. The dressing used in all cases was boracic lint next the wound and carbolic gauze and oiled paper outside of it. It is curious to note( So ) that out of the 16 cases, 14 were right oblique inguinal herniae, one only being on the left I' side. The remaining case was double. On the |; whole the experience of the year is in favour of resort to this operation in young and healthy subjects.] S- Fistula in ano.—a. Mahomedan male, aet. 24 Complete fistula of 8 years’duration. Laid open. Discharged cured in 16 days. b. Hindu male, aet. 30. Complete fistula result- ing from an abscess caused by application of caustics to piles by a Madrassee quack. Fistula laid open. Pile removed after ligaturing its I: base. Recovered in 13 days. c. Hindu male, aet. 18. Incomplete fistula with I< internal opening consequent on ischio-rectal ab- 13 scess bursting inside 6 months ago. Laid freely B open ; sphincter divided ; cavity very large; filled 1* up in 50 days. Suffered from acute right Is pneumonia during his stay in hospital. d. Mahomedan male, aet. 32. Complete fistula I of 8 months’ duration consequent on abscess. Laid freely open. Healed in 24 days. e. East Indian female, aet. 25. Blind external fistula of 7 weeks’ duration ; completed and laid jc freely open. Healed in 23 days. 6. Perinceal section.—a. Hindu male, aet. 65. - Attacked with retention of urine suddenly. Urethra had been lacerated by attempts at catheterism before admission. No instrument h could be passed in consequence. Cock’s operation 1 performed. Two small calculi detected in 11 urethra and removed by forceps. Full h sized catheter introduced into bladder per ure- thram. Had strong fever for 2 days. Full sized metallic catheter passed on nth day, and( 5i ) (every second or third day afterwards. Discharged in 31 days with perinaeal wound closed and f able to make water in full stream. b. Hindu male, set. 36. Admitted with dis- tended bladder and extravasation of urine, dry tongue, and low fever. Perinaeum Laid freely open. Urine dawn off by Syme’s catheter which was retained. Two free incisions made in scrotum. Scrotum sloughed ; maggots developed in the wound. Got diarrhoea and sank of exhaustion 7 days after operation. c. Hindu male, aet. 34- Admitted with reten- tion of urine due to stricture consequent on gonorrhoea and gleet. Bladder distended. Urethra lacerated by previous attempts to pass a catheter. Cock’s operation performed. Bladder emptied. No. 8 catheter passed into it per ureth- tavt. Bled a good deal after the operation and subsequently. Haemorrhage stopped by plug- ging. Nos. 9 to 12 catheters passed on 8th day, latter introduced every 2 or 3 days. Left hospi- tal in 45 days, with perinaeal wound healed and able to make water in good stream. d. Hindoo male, aet. 36. Admitted with organic stricture of 4 years’ duration, three perinaeal fistulae consequent on an abscess which burst 4 months ago and an ischio-rectal abscess. 1 No. 6 catheter was passed into the bladder. I The perinaeum was laid freely open on a guide, and the abscess opened fully. Had fever for I 3 days. The urethra was fully dilated by 1 occasional passage of instruments of increasing size. The perinaeal wound and fistulae gradual- ly closed. Another abscess of ihe opposite ischio-rectal fossa had to be opened. Remained 64 days in hospital.( 52 ) e. East Indian male, aet. 45. Admitted with retention of 48 hours’ standing, caused by organic stricture of the urethra. Relieved twice by a No. 2 catheter. Urine ammoniacal. Perinaeal section was performed and the bladder thoroughly emptied. A No. 3 catheter was afterwards passed through the urethra which was gradually dilated to its full size. The perinaeal wound gradually closed, and he left hospital in 64 days, able to make water in full stream/*??' urethram. f East Indian male, aet. 45. Admitted with several sinuses in perinaeo, and retention and ex- travasation—the result of traumatic stricture. Perinaeum laid open and bladder emptied. Catheters of increasing size were afterwards passed into the bladder. He became impa- tient and left hospital in 69 days before the perinaeal wound was fully closed. He could make water in full stream through the penis when the lips of the perinaeal wound were held together. g. Hindu male, aet. 26. Admitted with or- ganic stricture of 6 years’ duration and peri- naeal fistula following abscess which formed two months ago. Nos. 1,2 and 3 catheters passed with difficulty. Perinaeum laid open with- out a guide, the stricture divided, and No. 12 catheter introduced. This was repeated occa- sionally. The perinaeal wound healed and pa- tient left hospital in 54 days, able to make water in full stream through the urethra. h. Hindu male, aet. 18. Admitted with ex- travasation of urine, of 9 days’ duration, due to rupture of the urethra caused by a fall off a tree. Bladder distended, had been repeatedly re-( S3 ) lieved by catheter ; boggy swelling in perinaeum. Perinaeum laid freely open and No. 11 catheter introduced into the bladder per urethram Urine turbid, ammoniacal. Deep tissues of perinaeum gangrenous. Considerable bleeding followed, which was stopped by plugging. Patient con- tinued to suffer from fever of typhoid type. He got diarrhoea and sank of exhaustion two days after operation. [In 6 of these 8 cases the urethra was reached without a guide, by what is known as Cock’s operation. This is an exceedingly easy proce- dure, and applicable to cases when from lacera- tion of urethra extravasation or other cause a ^uide cannot be introduced. The stricture can subsequently be divided by prolonging the sec- tion forwards until it reaches the point of an instrument passed down through the urethra. This practice has frequently been followed by my colleague Surgeon-Major D. O’C. Raye and myself with good result. It is advisable to pass a large sized instrument into the bladder at once, and after a week or so intro- duce it again and continue the use of it at short intervals, until the perinaeal wound closes. I prefer this procedure to Wheelhousc’s opera- tion, which is both difficult and tecious.] 7. Internal urethrotomy.—West Indian male, set. 18. Admitted with two organic strictures— one about two inches from the external meatus, and the second in the membranous part of the urethra. Anterior stricture divided by a bistoury on a director ; posterior by Civiale’s urethro- tome. Full sized bougies were subsequently passed to maintain the patency of the canal, Remained under treatment for 40 days.( 54 ) 9 Hcematocele—a. Hindu male, aet. 35. Disease said to be of one month’s duration ; tunica very tense and tender, laid open freely, and dressed antiseptically; contents sangui- neous serum. Wound healed by granulation in 48 days. b. Hindu male, aet. 26. Admitted with a tense and very tender distension of the tunica vaginalis, extending beneath Poupart’s ligament into the addomen to the level of the umbilicus. On puncture, sanguineous fluid escaped. An incision was made under antiseptic precautions, 96 oz. of fluid evacuated and a long drainage tube inserted. Had a severe attack of fever with rigor the same day ; became worse next day, and the discharge was observed to be foetid. The sac was washed out with a lotion con- taining iodine. Delirium, and prostration en- sued, and he died comatose 5 days after the operation. The sac was found gangrenous on post-mortem examination. c. Mahomedan male, aet. 38. Disease of seven days’ duration, caused by a kick. Tunica very tense and tender. Laid freely open ; contents, sanguineous serum and small fibrin- ous clot. A layer of boracic gauze invagina- ted and stuffed with boracic lint. Wound healed by granulation in 20 days. d. Hindu male, aet. 20. Disease of 2 years’ duration; tunica very hard. On tapping turbid red fluid with liver-colored, curdy, dregs issued. Laidopenfreely,fullof coffee ground material and dark fluid. Cavity thoroughly washed and dress- ed antiseptically. Operation followed by high fever. Delirium and gangrene supervened and death took place in two days.( 55 ) e. East Indian male, set. 27. Distended tunica of 2 years’ duration, was tapped and injected with iodine one month ago. Laid open by a small incision and a tube inserted. Wound healed by granulation. Was suffering from secondary syphilis, which detained him in hospital 58 days. [Case b is a very remarkable one. The cavity consisted of a combined tunica and processus. Hydrocles of this sort are not uncommon in India. The result of incision was the develop- ment of septicaemia of exceedingly severe type. I have another case of the kind in hospital at present (March 1884), in which suppuration had taken place prior to admission. The sac was greatly thickened. A small opening was made under the spray just sufficient to admit a drain- age tube. The discharge has remained sweet and the sac is rapidly contracting. No constitu- tional disturbance occurred in this case. I be- lieve that unless the sac can be drained antiseptically (which is not an easy matter) the best plan istomake avery free opening and stuff the cavity with antiseptic substances such as boracic lint. Even this practice is not devoid of danger as Case d. proves.] 10. Imperforate anus.—a. Male child, 5 days old. Abdomen distended, parietes congedtes, intestinal coils visible, stercoraceous vomit- ing, difficult breathing ; child very low. A punc- ture about kt inch deep in the centre of the perinaeum. An incision was made in the middle line and gradually deepened to 2 inches. Meconium came through a trochar introduced for exploration. The bowel was freely opened, and the orifice pulled down and stitched by( 56 ) 4 horse hair sutures to the skin of the anus. A large amount of faeculent matter escaped. The child was taken away by its parents, and the result of operation could not be ascer- tained. b. Male child, 3 days’ old ; same symp- toms ; depression about *4 an inch deep at the site of the anus ; a little meconium passing by urethra. Similar operation performed. A large quantity of meconium was voided imme- diately after. The child sank in 5 hours. c. Malechild, il/2 month old. Abdomen distended,—covered with dilated veins, skin glazed. Penisand scrotum cedematous. Child emaciated Vomited occasionally. Urine yellow and oily. Anal orifice existed, but probe could not be passed into the rectum, and no faeces came by anus. Similar oper- ation performed, faeculent matter escaped at once, and the abdominal distension subsided. Was brought back for inspection three or four times. Made a good recovery. [Case iris a curious one. Theremusthavebeen a fistulous communication between the rectum- and bladder, or urethra, sufficient to keep the child alive, but insufficient to empty the bowel thoroughly. The practice of pulling down the end of the rectum and stitching it to the anal skin is an easy and useful one.] 11. Incision for bubo with removal of glands.—a. Hindu, set. 26. Had a bubo one month ago, which was opened 10 days before admission. Right inguinal glands much enlarged ; those of the left side slightly enlarged also. The right inguinal glands exposed by incision and enucleated. Wound inflamed, suppurated, and( 57 ) then healed slowly bv granulation. Discharged in ioi days quite recovered. b. Englishman, aet. 23. Sympathetic bubo of one month’s duration. Glands much enlarged and partly broken down. They were exposed by incision and extirpated. The wound re- mained aseptic and healed by granulation in 40 days. c. East Indian male, aet. 17. Chancroidal bubo of one month’s duration ; laid freely open ; gland much enlarged and infiltrated with pus ; it was enucleated. Wound healed by granula- tion in 24 days. d. East Indian male, aet. 21. Double bubo following gonorrhoea. Glands much enlarged. Both bubos laid freely open, and glands ex- tirpated, at a few days’ interval. Wound healed kindly by granulation in 58 days. [In these cases the glands were in process of suppurative disintegration. When glands begin to break down from suppuration or degeneration, it saves time and prevents the formation of sinuses to scrape them out with a sharp spoon or extirpate them. This last can easily be done by means of the fingers and director, aided perhaps by an occasional snip with the scissors.] 11. Large abscesses.—The abscesses included under this head were either situated deeply or in delicate and dangerous situations, or re- quired difficult or deep incisions or dissections for their evacuation. a. Abscesses of the neck.—i. Mahomedan male, aet. 23. Deep abscess of the left parotid region, of 5 months’ duration, which had opened into the external meatus. Afree external opening( 53 ) was made and adrainage tube inserted. Complete recovery took place in 48 days. Had an attack of acute dysentery during his stay in hospital. ii. Hindu male, set. 30. Abscess over left mastoid process, of 2*4 months’ duration; had been opened three times; bare bone detected by probe. Sinus laid freely open and dressed for granulation. Left hospital after 14 days with a small superficial sore. iii. Native Christian female, set. 18. Glan- dular swelling of three years’ duration in left sub-maxillary region. Pus detected on explora- tion. Incision made antiseptically and drain- age tube inserted; slight discharge continued for some time, but the wound eventually closed and all swelling disappeared. Under treatment 53 days. b. Axillary abscesses.— i. Eurasian female, set. 26. 25 days’ duration. Opened antiseptically by Hilton’s plan ; 5 oz.; drainage tube inserted. Complete recovery in 11 days. ii. Eurasian female, set. 15. 15, days’duration Opened antiseptically by Hilton’s method ; 10 oz.; tube inserted. Discharged cured in 24 days. iii. Mahomedan male, set. 35, 20 days’ duration. Opened antiseptically by Hilton’s method; 5 oz. ; tube inserted; very free discharge continued for some days. Finally closed in 34 days. c. Perihepatic abscesses.—i. East Indian male, set. 35. Admitted with a fluctuating swelling in right hypochondrium ; found on exploration to contain sanious pus. Opened under spray. Liver not enlarged. A large quantity of brickdust coloured matter escaped ; drainage tube inserted and antiseptic dressing applied. The discharge( 59 ) continued profuse for some time. It gradually became scantier, lighter and more sticky Remained aseptic throughout. Wound healed- in 35 days. ii. Hindu male, set. 40. Fluctuating swelling of right hypochondrium, of 4 months’ duration ; history of fever. Right lobe of liver enlarged. Thick sanious pus discovered by exploration. A small opening made and drainage tube in- serted under antiseptic precautions. High fever and delirium ensued, but improvement took place. Discharge very profuse, like apple jelly. Became putrid and changed its character to a thin grumous fluid a few days before death. Got fever of a typhoid type and died comatose 31 days after operation. On post-mortum exa- mination the surface of the liver was found to be deeply eroded. Another large abscess existed at the back of the right lobe. The substance of the liver was extensively destroyed. The con- stitutional disturbance which proved fatal follow- ed the change in the character of the discharge. iii. Hindu male, set. 54. Admitted with a fluctuating swelling in the left hypochondriac region, of 1 month’s duration ; development'ac- companied by fever. Explored and found to con- tain pus Opened antiseptically by a bistoury, 14 oz. of thick reddish brown matter escaped ; tube inserted and antiseptic dressing applied, No constitutional disturbance. Discharge gradu- ally became scantier and more lymphy. Dis- charged in 46 days perfectly recovered. Dress- ings changed every 2, 3 or 4 days ; the interval being prolonged and tube shortened as the dis- charge became scanty.( 6o ) d. abscesses of the Abdominal parietes.—i. Mahomedan male, aet. 20. Fluctuating swelling of left hypochondrium, of 8 days’ duration. A small opening made and tube inserted. Antisep- tic dressing appiled. Healed in 10 days. ii. Hindu male, aet. 30. Fluctuating swelling in left iliac region, of 20 days’duration. Opened rantiseptically and drainage tube inserted; suffeed from fever for a month and urine became turbid and albuminous about 3 weeks after opening. Wound finally closed and patient discharged in 68 days. e. Iliac abscess.—Hindumale, net. 28. Abscess of 6 months’ duration ; had been mistaken for a bubo and opened in the left groin, profuse foetid discharge came from a sinus through which a probe passed deeply into the left iliac fossa. Thigh flexed on abdomen and leg on thigh. Suffering from hectic fever. A free opening was made below Poupart’s ligament half way between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the femoral artery, and a drainage tube inserted into the abscess cavity. Very free discharge continued. The original sinus closed and the counter-opening had almost healed, when fresh accumulation took place, with fever and rigor. The wound was re-opened and tube again inserted. The sinus finally closed under careful treatment, and patient was discharged 258 days after the counter-opening had been made. His health was greatly im- proved. Some thickening remained in the iliac fossa and some stiffness of the hip joint. /. Bubo.—Irishman, aet. 25. Chancroidal bubo; laid freely open antiseptically; healed in 16 days.( 6i ) g. Scrotal abscess.—Eurasian male, aet. 45, 27 days’ duration ; opened antiseptically ; 6 oz. of pus ; closed in 10 days. h. Abscesses of tunica vaginalis (suppurated, hydrocele).—i. Mahomedan male, aet. 55. Left hydrocele, of 10 years’standing tapped on two occasions; became swollen, tense and painful recently. Pus discoversd on tapping tunica ; laid open and drainage tube inserted. Fever ensued, which lasted for a week ; tunica sloughed off and wound healed and granulated in 54 days. ii. Native Christian male, aet. 18 years. Right hydrocele; tapped five days previous to admission; inflamed. Pus discovered by ex- ploring; tunica opened antiseptically and drain- age tube inserted. Healed in 10 days. i. —Perincealabscesses, i.—East Indian clerk, aet. 35. Painful swelling in perinaeum, of 3 days’ duration, accompanied with fever and difficult micturition. Perinaeal section performed. Wound closed in 11 days. No urine came through it. ii.—Mahomedan male, aet 35. Suffered from gonorrhoea 17 years ago, succeeded by gleet. Symptoms of stricture gradually appeared, and these have gradually become more pronounced. Had strong fever 13 days ago, succeeded by painful swelling in the perinaeum. Retention of urine for 7 days. Scrotum of penis oedema- tous. Bladder extremely distended. Crackling boggy swelling above pubis. Pronounced symp- toms of uraemia. Perinaeum laid open freely. A large quantity of foetid pus and urine gushed out. Urethra freely laid open and bladder emp- tied by catheter No. 10 passed per urethram. Two days afterwards a free incision made in the middle line above pubis. A large quan-( 62 ) tity of foetid pus and slough removed. Both wounds healed gradually by granulation. Full sized catheter passed occasionally. Discharged well in 16 days. iii. —Hindu shopkeeper, aet. 22. Gonorrhoea 5 months ?go, followed by gleet and symptoms of stricture. Painful swellings appeared in perinaeum and right ischio-rectal fossa, with fever, a week ago. Micturition difficult ; health bad ; liver and spleen enlarged. Perinaeum laid freely open, pus and urine welled out. Urethra opened. Ischio-rectal abscess opened, the sphincter being freely divided at the same time. No. 10 catheter passed into bladder per urelhram. Did well for 23 days, wounds granulating and contracting ; urethra kept open by passing full sized catheter. Then got diarrhoea, which resisted treatment and proved fatal by exhaus- tion in 12 days—35 days after operation. iv. —Jew, set. 48. Painful swelling in peri- naeum, of 20 days’ duration ; laid open freely. Pus issued and afterwards urine. Wound healed in 34 days. Bougies 3 and 4 were passed on one occasion, but this was succeeded by so severe an attack of fever that the experiment was not repeated v. —Mahomedan male, aet. 35. Painful swelling in perinaeum with fever of 10 days’ duration ; laid open freely in middle line ; about 2 oz. of pus issued. Wound healed and patient discharged in 17 days. No urine came through the opening. vi. —Hindu male, aet. 40. Painful fluctuat- ing perinaeal swelling of 1 month’s duration ; fever and difficulty of micturition ; laid open reely. Sphincter ani divided as the cavity( 63 ) reached the bowel. Wound healed by granula- tion in 35 days. No urine escaped through it. [Those cases in which no issue of urine took place through the incision made into the abscess, prove that at least some of these abscesses do not take their origin from within the urethra. I am inclined to think that very few of them do, and that communications with the urethra, when they exist, are secondary.] j. Prostatic abscess.—Englishman, aet. 30 Admitted with retention of urine. Prostatic abscess discovered by rectal examination ; laid open freely through perinaeum : No. 10 cathe- ter passed. Left hospital in 14 days. Wound closed, able to make water in full stream. k. Peri-rectal abscess.—Native Christian, aet. 25. Abscess surrounding rectum, of 3 months’ duration, burst into the gut 20 days ago ; laid freely open into gut on both sides ; sphincter divided. A second free incision required in 57 days. Wound now (15th March) contract- ing and filling up from the bottom. Is anaemic ; constitution feeble. /. Gluteal abscesses, i.—East Indian female child, aet. 4. Abscess of four days’ duration. Opened antiseptically. Healed in 12 days. ii. Hindu female, aet. 18, 15 days’ dura- tion ; below left gluteus maximus. Opened antiseptically. Healed in 23 days. m. Abscess of thigh, i.—East Indian female, aet. 10, four days’ duration, under extens or muscles of right thigh. Opened antiseptically by Hilton’s plan. Healed in 10 days. ii.—Mahomedan female, aet. 35. Chronic ab- scess of left thigh, of 2 months’ duration. Opened ■antiseptically. Healed in 18 days.( 64 ) iii. —Eurasian female, aet. 28. Large abscess of upper part of left thigh, of 10 days’ duration. Opened antiseptically by Hilton’s plan. Healed in 8 days. iv. —Eurasian female, aet. 30. Large abscess of left thigh, of one month’s duration. Opened antiseptically. Healed in 7 days. v. —East Indian male, aet. 27. Large deep abscess of left thigh, of 7 days’ duration. Open- ed antiseptically by Hilton’s method. Healed in 39 days. vi. —Native Christian female, a t. 30. Large abscess behind left thigh, of 5 days’ duration. Opened antiseptically by Hilton’s method. Healed in 14 days. vii. —Chinese male, aet. 16. Large deep ab- scess of upper part of right thigh, of 15 days, duration. Opened antiseptically. A long sinus had to be laid open in 17 days. Finally healed in 54 days. n. Popliteal abscesses, i.—East Indian student, aet. 14. Diffuse cellulitis of 7 days’ duration, fluc- tuation over popliteal space. Opened antisepti- cally. Healed in 8 days. ii.—Hindu male, set. 14. Inflammatory swell- ing behind knee-joint, of 12 days’ duration. Knee joint acutely flexed. Pus detected and antiseptic opening made. Healed in 26 days. Joint gradu- ally straightened. iii—. Hindu male, set. 11. Similar case of 20 days’duration. Opened antiseptically. Healed in 18 days. o. Abscess of leg.—Eurasian female, aet. 14. Collection under sural muscles, of 15 days’ forma- tion. Opened antiseptically on inner side of leg.( 65 ) Discharged in 35 days. Knee-joint had to be forcibly straightened. p. Multiple abscesses, i.—Eurasian male, aet. 36. Acute abscess of right arm and right thigh of 12 days’ duration. Opened simultaneously with antiseptic precautions. Drainage tubes inserted. Healed in 17 days. ii. —Hindu male, aet. 32. Axillary abscess of right side and abscess of right arm, of 13 days’ duration. Opened spontaneously, tube inserted, 5 other collections formed in different parts of the body. Got pneumonia, diarrhoea, and bed- sores. Abscesses laid open and suitable consti- tutional remedies given. Recovered in 98 days. VIII.—Reparative Operations. 1. For Atresia oris. i.—Mahomedan male, aet. 20. Jaws bound together by cicatricial bands due to destruction of buccal mucous membrane by mercurial salivation. Bands divided by probe- pointed bistoury and mouth forced open by Smith’s gag. This was used periodically to maintain patency, and he was discharged in 28 days, able to open his mouth fully. iii. Hindu male, aet. 28. Similar case but more aggravated ; alveolar processes necrosed and teeth loose. Three sequestra and teeth were removed after the bands had been divided. Patency was maintained by occasional insertion of a bivalve speculum. Left hospital in 21 days greatly improved. 2. For cleft palate.—(Staphyloraphy)—Hindu male, aet. 7. Fissure through both hard and soft palate. Edges pared ; soft dissected off hard palate, latter divided on each side of cleft by chisel and hammer, and prized towards centre; pillars of fauces snipped across by scissors. Uni-( 66 ) on took place except at two po'nts where small holes remained. The father would not permit a second operation. 3. bor harelip.—Same subject. Single com- plete fissure continuous with the cleft of the palate. Operation performed 10 days after the staphyloraphy. Edges pared ; ala freed ; wound stitched by horse hair. No dressing applied. Healed by first intention. Left hospital in 10 days. 4. For Vesico-taginalfistula.—Hindu female, —set. 20 (prostitute.) Large aperture in anterior vaginal wall just behind meatus urinarius, the result of syphilitic ulceration. Condylomata on vulva. Urethra dilated, forefinger of left hand introduced into bladder. Anterior wall of vagina brought out into vulva in this manner. Edges of fistula pared. Silver and horse hair stitches applied. Drainage tube inserted into bladder and stitched with horse hair to meatus. In 10 days tubes and stitches removed ; a small opening remained unclosed. This was pared and stitched again. In 10 days stitches were removed. A small hole still remained. Patient refused to undergo further operation, and was discharged. 5. For talipes varus.—East Indian child, 3 years. Foot quite inverted, walked on the outer malleolus and astragalus. Tendo Achillis, both tibials and flexor longus divided ; position of foot partially rectified by splints and bandages. Left hospital in 16 days greatly improved ; supplied with a zinc shoe to be constantly worn, 6. For cicatrix after burn.—Mahomedan male, set. 35. Right arm burnt in infancy. Cicatricial web prolonging folds of axilla and binding( 6; ) arm to chest ; another on the anterior aspect of the elbow-joint producing acute flexure and fix- ation. These were freely divided, and by careful dressing during the healing process the limb was restored to usefulness. Remained 70 days in hospital. 7. For phimosis (circumcision).—a. Hindu male, set. 35. Elephantoid mass below glans, the result of paraphimosis three years ago. The whole of the prepuce was removed and the skin of the penis united to the root of the glans by horse hair stitches. Wound united by first intention in 12 days. b. East Indian male, set. 17. Admitted with gonorrhoea, phimosis and double suppurating bubo. Prepuce removed by oblique incision, mucous membrane slit up on each side, horse heir stitches applied. Bubo laid open. Left hospital quite recovered in 59 days. c. East Indian male, set. 20. Orifice of prepuce contracted ; syphilitic sore within ; suffering from secondary eruption. Circumcision performed and specific treatment resorted to. Discharged well in 24 days. XL i. Hydrocele tapped and injected.—Maho- medan male, set. 35. Large double hydrocele ; tapped simultaneously, and injected with iodine. The right contained about 2 lbs. and the left 1 lb. of fluid. Satisfactory result. Left hospital in 7 days. 2. Spina bijida tapped and injected.—Maho- medan male, 1 year old. Large fluid tumour over sacrum, size of a foetal head, 12 inches in circumference; tapped with a hypodermic syringe and 5SS of Morton’s iodo-glycerine solution in- jected. Refilled in a week. This was repeated( 68 ) 8 times at intervals of 7 to 10 days, from 5 to 6 oz. being evacuated on each occasion. Fever followed the first two operations. It was intend- ed to increase the amount of fluid injected, but the parents grew impatient and withdrew the child after 64 da>'s’ residence in hospital. The treatment did no good whatever. A large aper- ture could be discovered in the back of the sacrum when the tumour was emptied. 3. Cystic tumour of neck tapped.— H indu male, set. 50. Fluid tumour on right side of neck, of 10 years’ duration. Experienced pain from pressure on the brachial plexus. 5 ounces of clear serous fluid were withdrawn by a small trochar and the tumour collapsed. Patient left hospital the same day and has not since returned. General Remarks I. Death-rate.—The mortality of the year was high—1 S'8 per cent. The death-rates of the four preceding series of operations were,— 1879, 18 5 ; 1880, 107 ; 1881, 15 2, and 1882, 9-9. To the deaths which actually took place in hospital must be added 3 cases which were removed in a moribund state, so that 20’5 would more correctly represent the true mor- tality among these cases, which were, with exception of one or two instances treated to the end. It will be observed that in a large pro- portion of the fatal cases operation was resorted to under very unfavourable or desperate circum- stances, with a faint hope of saving life otherwise certainly and inevitably doomed. The dread of a high death-rate has never been permitted to irterfere with an obvious duty in such cir- cumstances.( 69 ) 2 Death causes.—These may be displayed as follows :— Septicaemia ... ••• 10 Tetanus ... .. ••• 6 Asthenia and exhaustion ... 5 Shock .. ... ... 3 Pneumonia ... ••• 3 Secondary haemorrhage ... 2 Dysentery ... ... i Chloroform asphyxia ... ... i Diphtheria ... ... I Obstruction of bowels ... i Peritonitis ... ... i 34 In the fatal cases of septic poisoning a putrid or gangrenous state of the wound existed, and a reference to the detailed cases will show that this occurred under circumstances in which its prevention was difficult or impossible. The number of deaths caused by tetanus is large, and most of them arose in connection with scrotal operations. In one case the disease was associated with spreading traumatic gangrene. I have seen other instances of this combination, and the fatal issue is exceedingly swift. In the cases of exhaustion, constitutional exhaus- tion, the shock of injury and septic poisoning were so associated as to render a more precise term inaccurate. In the cases of death by shock the result was partly due to the feeble constitution of the subject and partly to the severity of the operation. In the fatal cases of pneumonia and dysentery these diseases de- veloped after operation, and were probably the result of chill acting on a susceptible system( 70 ) The two deaths from secondary haemorrhage took place in deep wounds of the neck, which had undergone putrid inflammation. Secondary haemorrhage has been an exceedingly rare acci- dent in these wards since antiseptic organic liga- tures were introduced. The other death causes are special, and do not admit of general remark. 3 Hospitalism and antiseptics.—There has been no epidemic of septic disease of any shape in the hospital during the year. Wounds have as a rule done well, and when septic conditions arose in any case, it was due moreto circumstances connected with the individual and his wound or injury than to any contamination derived from the hospital. To prevent the occurrence of putrefaction in wounds, has now become an es- tablished object and rule in surgical practice. In some wounds and in some patients this is more difficult of accomplishment than in others, and in this country the maintenance of purity in wounds is not always an easy matter. In- creasing experience has impressed me with an increasingly thorough conviction of the great value of the antiseptic system, and the more closely I have followed the footsteps of Lister the greater comfort, success and security have I obtained. During the past year 1 have resorted to the use of boracic acid in the form of lint and ointment more largely than before, and I have found that, with some simple precautions at the time of operation and dressing, it is an efficient antiseptic, easy of application and perfectly safe. I have, however, continued to use carbolic acid in the form of spray and lotion, and in special cases have also employed carbolic gauze as an outside dressing.ed; aud (3) the anatomical or the part of the PRECIS OF OPERATIONS PERFORMED IN THE WARDS OF THE FIRST SURGEON, MEDICAL COLLEGE HOSPITAL, During the year 18S6. By Surgeon-Major K. McLEOD, A.M., M.D., F.R.C.S.E., Professor of Surgery, Calcutta, Medical College. Since the last of this series of papers was published (vide Indian Medical Gazette for 1884, pp. 94, 165), a new Nomenclature of Diseases lias been issued (1885), containing, as an ap- pendix, a new classification of surgical oper- ations. In my previous papers I followed the classification laid down in the “Nomenclature” of 1868. The recent classification differs in some essential points from that, and the question arises whether I ought now to follow the old or adopt the new. In my book on “ Operative Surgery in the Medical College Hospital, Calcutta,” I devoted a short chapter to the subject of Classification of Surgical Operations. I showed that three principles or bases governed the naming and classing of operations, namely—(1) the ’pathological or the disease or diseased condi- tion for which the operation is performed ; (2) the therapeutical or the operative procedure adopt-PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 2 body affected by disease or deformity and sub- jected to operation. I showed that in the old classification while the three principles were held in view in naming and classing, they were . employed without system or uniformity so that in one case the disease was the main governing principle (tumours, calculi, &c.), in another the mode of operating (incision, amputation), aud iu a third the part of the body affected (operation on the eye, bones, joints, arteries, viens, &c.). And, as with the main classes so with the sub-classes, and names; the three fun- damental ideas were transposed according to con- venience or fancy, the general result being a classification without a ruling principle, and, t therefore, an imperfect and confused one. In the new classification of operations, the anatomical basis has been much more largely adopted as a primary principle just as diseases have been more strictly classified in the body of the “Nomenclature” ou the same pijni. There is much to say for this system. It presents a cer- tain unalterable basis of classing, and, both diseases and the methods of dealing with them by operation present great differences according, to the part of the body affected. Compare, for example, cysts of the ovary with cysts elsewhere ; ; cancer of the tongue with cancer of the rectum incision for extravasation of urine with incision for whitlow. The objections to the anatomical plan are that it necessarily separates, and places in different classes, things pathologically or oper- atively identical or similar; and this has beeu felt in framing the new classification so strongly that pathological groups are still retained (tu-3 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 1 0 Total incurs, abscess, haemorrhage, aneurism), while amputation—a method of operating—still holds a prominent place in the scheme. The fact is, that any classification rigidly carried out on any of the three principles will drag likes apart, and,perhaps, the anatomical plan does this to a greater extent than either of the other two. It follows from what I have written, that the new classification is very far from per- fect, and, inasmuch as it is more bulky aud ela- borate, it is not so convenient as the old. For this reason, aud for the sake of uniformity and facility of comparison, I have determined to ad- here to the plan of classification adopted in pre- vious papers. Indeed, as long as the terras des- criptive of operations express the three ideas I have specified, it does not matter much what classification is used, because the items can be redistributed according to fancy or need at any future time. With these preliminary remarks, I present a tabular statement of the operations performed during the calendar year 1886. In future numbers, I hope to give a short accouut of each of the more important cases: — Table of Operations performed during 1886. Description of Operation. Number. Died. I. Operations on the Eye and its Appendages ... ... ... 0 0 II. Operations on Arteries— 1, Ligature of brachial for traumatic aneu- rism ... ... ... 1 o4 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. III. Operations on Joints— No. Died. 1. Reduction of dislocation of shoulder joint... 2 0 2. Extension of stiff joints— a Shoulder... 2 0 b Elbow 1 0 c Knee 3 0 3. Excision of joints— a Elbow 1 1 4 b Knee 1 0 c Ankle 1 0 Total 11 1 IV. Operations on Bones— 1. Partial excision for necrosis (seques- trotomy) 7 1* 1 2. Re-section for un-united fracture 1 0 Total 8 1 V 1. Amputation. A.—For injury. Primary of the arm 2 0 2. ,, of the forearm 1 0 3. Secondary of both arms for gangrene 1 1» 4. „ of the leg for gangrene ... „ „ for spreading trauma- tic gangrene 1 IV-1 5. 1 iA Total 6 3 6. JB.—For Disease. Through shoulder joint, for sarcoma 1 0 7. Of the thigh, for sarcoma 1 1 V 8. Of both legs, for dry gangrene 1 0 9. Of the leg, for gangrene 1 0 10. ,, for caries of ankle ... 1 0 11. „ for epithelioma of foot 1 0 12. Above the ankle (Syme’s), for sarcoma of foot 1 0 13. ,, ,, for disease of ankle joint 1 0 14. Of the penis for ulceration 1 0 9 1 Total Grand Total of Amputations ... 15 4PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 7 1 Total YI. Removal of Tumours (by excision.) A.—Malignant. 1. Scirrhus of mamma and axillary glands ... 2. Cancerous glands (recurrent) ... 3. Epithelioma a of scalp l) of nose and face c of cheek d of lip e of tongue / of chin and lower jaw (recurrent g of neck (recurrent) li of penis and inguinal glands 4. Sarcoma. a of upper jaw ... b of hard palate ... c of shoulder d of arm e of back f of buttock No. Died 5 1 2 0 1 0 1 1 1 0 1 0 2 0 2 0 1 1 1 1 1 0 1 1 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 Total B.—Non- Malignant. 1. Elephantiasis a of scrotum , b of labia 2. Lipoma ‘ 3. Epulis... 4. Nasopharyngeal polypus 5. Osteo-cystoma of lower jaw 6. Papilloma of penis 7. Haemorrhoids Total Grand Total of Tumours VII. Removal of Foreign Bodies. 1. From cheek Total VIII, Removal of Calculi. 1. TJrethral, by incision 2. Vesical,by suprapubic lithotomy 3. „ by litholapaxy , 23 6 20 1 1 0 2 0 1 0 1 0 2 0 1 0 3 0 . 31 1 . 64 6 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 6 16 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. IX. Incisions. 1. Tracheotomy 2. Cholecystotomy 3. For strangulated hernia (with opening sac) 4. For radical cure of inguinal hernia (antisep- tic ligature and removal of sac) 5. For radical cure of umbilical hernia 6. For haamatocele 7. For bubo (with removal of glands) 8. Perinoeal section a with guide... b without guide (Cock’s) 9. For anal fissure 10. For talipes varus 11. For large abscesses ... Total X. Reparative Operations. 1. For hare lip 2. For cleft palate 3. For vesico-vaginal fistula 4. For penile fistula ... 5. For cicatrix after burn 6. „ „ abscess 7. For hernia testis Total XI. Operations not classed. 1. Imperforate anus ... 2. Nerve splitting No. Died 7 3 1 1 6 2 11 1 1 0 4 1 4 0 12 0 6 3 1 0 4 0 16 1 72 12 1 0 2 0 3 0 1 0 3 0 1 0 1 0 12 0 1 0 1 0 2 0 Grand Total ... 183 25 The following notes of cases are based on more detailed abstracts prepared by my House- Surgeon, Assistant-Surgeon Khagendra Nath Sen, M. B., from the bed-head tickets. II. Operations on Arteries. 1.—Legature of the brachial artery for trau- matic aneurism.—Hindu male, at. 8. FellPRECIS OF OPERATIONS. from a height of five feet a month before admis- sion. Injury treated in the country as a frac- ture of elbow. About a week ago a swelling was observed above the elbow in course of the brachial artery, which on puncture, emitted blood. This was found to be an aneurism 1 which, after administration of chloroform and application of an India-rubber cord on its proxi- mal aspect, was laid open. Blood and clot were removed from the cavity and an aperture was found on its inner wall communicating with the brachial artery. This was carefully isolated and tied above and below, a drainage tube was inserted, and the wound stitched and dressed with strict antiseptic precautions. The wound remained aseptic and healed by first intention. The movements of the limb were fully restored, land patient left hospital in 53 days with a sound useful limb. %*The perfect success of antiseptic treatment in procuring the best and speediest repair possi- ble was beautifully illustrated by this case. III. Operations on Joints. 1. (i, ii.)—11 eduction of dislocation of the slioulder-joint.—The dislocation (downwards) was reduced in both these cases by manipulation, land the patients left hospital the same day. 2. a. i.—Manipulation of stiff shoulder-joint.— Hindu male, cut. 35. Shoulder-joint stiffened isix months ago in consequence of severe inflam- mation of right arm caused by a prick of the ! index finger. Movements greatly impaired. Movements of fingers also much impaired. Chloroform was administered, and the stiff joint8 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. freely manipulated. Passive motion was sufc1 se'quently repeated daily. He left the hospita i in 52 days with the movements of the arm am fingers greatly improved. ii. Eurasian, male, cet. 32. The righ > shoulder-joint was injured a month ago, am i its movements in every direction are almos annulled. They were freely restored unde chloroform, and patient left hospital iu thre t days. b. Bending of stiff elbow-joint.—Hindu male I cet. 12. Had a fall four months ago, followed b> abscess iu front of the elbow-joint. The ulna I appears to have been broken near its uppe end, the radious dislocated, and the interna condyle of the humerus separated from the shaft The joint is fixed at a right angle, and ven little movement remains ; the fingers are als< flexed and stilf. Forcible movement unde chloroform followed by frequent repeated pas- sive movement subsequently caused considerabl improvement. c. Extension of stiff linee-joints. i. Hindu male, cet. 36. Left knee fixed at : right angle. This condition .ensued on gonor rhoeal arthritis, which occurred eight months ago The joint was forcibly straightened on lou different occasions under chloroform. He re mained in hospital 42 days, and was dischargee with a straight but stiff leg. ii. Hindu male, cet. 29. Had fever four month: ago, followed by swelling and flexion of tin knee-joint. History of gonorrhoea and rheuma tism, leg flexed on thigh at an angle of 30PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 9 Tlie knee-joint was forcibly flexed twice under jjcfllorofovm. The straightening was completed jby a MacIntyre splint and maintained by a istarcb bandage. He was discharged 69 days [after admission with a useful limb. The knee- joint was straight and stiff, and some displace- ment backwards of the head of the tibia bad (taken place. iii. Native Christian female, cut. 15. Ad- mitted with two sinuses on the right thigh, result- Iing from abscess, and a stiff but straight-knee- joint. The sinuses were closed and the joint freely moved under chloroform. Adhesions were felt to give way. Passive movement was re- peated on several subsequent occasions. She remained in hospital 120 days, and left with a useful and moveable joint. In each of these cases of false or fibrous i anchylosis considerable improvement and res- toration to usefulness were obtained by forcible movement under chloroform and subsequent manipulation. Such cases, which are very com- mon in India, require patient and prolonged treatment; but the result in most instances : amply repays the trouble taken. The cause and degree of stiffening determine the kind, amount, and duration of manipulation necessary. If any movement remains in a joint and no active disease exists, treatment of this kind should be tried, at auy rate in the first in- stance. 3. a. Excision of the elbow-joint. — Hindu male, at. 16. Had sustained compound dislo- cation of left elbow-joint aud fracture of in- ternal condyle by a fall off a tree from a height10 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. of 30 feet. The wound measured tlirpe inclie and had been stitolled but not drained. H suffered from fever. A drainage tube wa inserted on his admission and an effort, made t< render the wound aseptic. Eight days afte> admission the discharge was found to hegancrreJ nous, and wound sloughy ; humerus extensively denuded; patient delirious ; temperature 103°: ' tongue dry. Resection was performed under! antiseptic precautions as a forlorn hope. Thi> I did not stay the progress of septic infection ; secondary abscesses appeared in the forearm. 1 left iliac fossa, and over left tibia; the lattei-i two baring the bone extensively. A bedsore formed, which took on a sloughing character, and laid bare the sacrum and iliac bones. It finally communicated with the iliac abscess1 and bladder. For a few days before his death patient passed all llis urine through the bedsore. He died of exhaustion from pyaemia 21 days after the operation. A post-mortem examina- tion was not permitted. *%* Had this wound been Listerised and drained at the commencement, the issue would 1 probably have been different. Attempts to render it aseptic after admission failed and septic periostitis set in. Amputation was recoin- ! mended but declined, and resection was con- seated to after considerable persuasion. It was too late. Pyaemia, already established, pursued a swift and virulent course. It is curious to note that the secondary lesions affected the same tissue, periosteum, as the primary. Mic- turition thiough the bedsore was a rare and sad incident of the close of the case.PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 11 j b. Excision of knee-joint. — Mahomedan nale, cet. 11, admitted 5th July 1885. Had mstaiued an injury of left knee-joint six months previously, which led to its becoming fixed at right angle. It was straightened under hloroform on 23rd August and kept on a plint till 6th October. It was then found to ie weak and tender. The head of the tibia was iisplaced behind the lower end of the femur, md he could not use the limb. It was put p in a starch bandage, and he could then imp about with crutches; the bandage was lemoved and reapplied in November, and again lemoved in February 1886, when the joint was Duud to be as tender as ever and the limb as iseless for support and progression. Resection vas accordingly recommended, and performed n the 18th of February. The operation was performed with strict an- iseptic precautions. A semi-lunar flap was taken from the front of the knee-joint, the !! itella removed, and the ends of the femur and bia turned out. A wedge was cut out of the indyles of the femur antero-posteriorly as far as ie epiphysial plate, and a corresponding wedge taped on the head of the tibia. This fitted to the femoral angle. The wound was carefully titched and drained and the limb placed ou a traight, posterior splint. A severe attack of rysipelas, affecting the leg which had been Iperated on, set in on the third day after opera- ion. There were other cases of this disease in the ospital at the time. This lasted a fortnight and paused destructive inflammation of the wound. *lhe skin united in 24 days, leaving threePRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 12 sinuses, which discharged freely, and throug which, eventually some small sequestra we: removed. The process of consolidation was very prolonged one, aud the patient was not ah to leave hospital till the 19th of October. B was able to support the weight of his body cc the limb and to walk about actively with tli aid ot crutches. The joint was free of pain, an the femur and tibia had undergone satisfactor union. %* In this case of fibrous anchylosis, straigk.; eniug and subsequent prolonged fixation failei I The joint was found to be carious on resection The cutting of a wedge out of the angle of th! femur, and fitting the head of the tibia into i ; gave strength to the apposition of the bom i and permitted preservation of the epiphysin plates. Recovery was greatly delayed by tl:l attack of erysipelas, which the patient underwer- soon after thk operation, and which caused de: tructive inflammation of the wound cavity ; hi the final result was satisfactory. c. Excision of the anhle-joint.—Hindu mah I cet. 32. Patient was admitted with cario-necros- of the lower end of the left tibia, which wr operated on (see IV. 1. f. i. below) ; the ankle joint becoming seriously diseased, it was resecte on the 5th of April. Lateral incisions were madi the diseased surface of the astragalus remove bv gouge, aud the extremities of the tibia an fibula by bone forceps. The skin wounds par tially healed, but the cavity did not fill up, an bare and carious bone being discovered b probing, amputation of the leg was performe on the 23rd of June (see V. 10, below).PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 13 IV. Operations on Bones. Partial excision for necrosis (sequestro- tomy ). a. Frontal bone and rib.— European male, y. 40. Suffered from syphilis some years ago, and ,ad gummatous swellings on the head and chest our years ago, which suppurated and dis- harged, leaving sinuses through which dead roue was discovered. The sinuses were enlarg- 'd by incision and small sequestra removed. The resulting wounds healed by granulation, le remained in hospital 37 days. 6. Upper and lower jaws.—Hindu male, et. 30. Had lever nine months ago, followed by nflammatiou of the alveolor process of the left upper jaw, and of the lower jaw, on the right ide. Several teeth had fallen out, and others *vere loose. These were extracted, and the tequestra removed. Left hospital next day. c. Loicer jaw.—Mahomedan male, cut. 29. Had fever 10 months ago, followed by inflamma- tion of left side of lower jaw, resulting in necro- sis. A large sequestrum was removed under ihloroform, and he left hospital in five days. d. Pelvis.—Mahomedan male, cet. 12. Had iever, followed by iliac abscess, a year ago. A large ulcer existed on the front of the right Hugh, below Poupart’s ligament, at the upper Dart of which there was a sinus leading into the hac fossa, through which loose dead bone was liscovered. The spleen was much enlarged. The sinus was enlarged, the sequestra removed, - drainage tube inserted, antiseptic dressing applied, and extension by weight and pulley em-PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. ] 4 ployed to straighten the hip-joint, which wa somewhat bent. No sign of repair ensued, th. ileum was bare, and abundant discharge of pui came through the tube. He lingered for 101 months, and eventually died of exhaustion. *#* Failure in this case was due to the bac constitution and health of the patient. e. Femur.—Mahomedan male, at. 32. Had an abscess (probably periosteal) of the lower end of right femur 17 years ago, which burst spon- taneously and seemed to heal, but broke out repeatedly. An open sinus ha3 existed for 12 years, through which small bits of bone came. This sinus was enlarged, several small sequestra removed, and the bone filed down with an os- teotrite. It was very dense (sclerosed). The sinus was carefully drained, and contracted con- siderably. He grew tired of treatment and left hospital after 68 days’ residence, considerably improved, but not cured. f. Bones of leg.—Hindu male, at. 32, admit- ted 23rd February. About nine mouths ago had an abscess over the lower ends of the tibia, resulting in sinus, which closed in three months, but reopened in a month, and has continued dis- charging. Dead bone could be felt through four sinuses when he was admitted. A free cru- cial incision was made on the 27th of July, a sequestrum removed, and the cavity which con- tained it, gouged out. Noimprovement followed and an abscess formed in a month over the outer malleolus, which was opened and fouud to lead to dead bone and communicate with a diseased ankle-joint. Accordingly resection ofPRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 16 lie ankle-joint was performed on the 10th of Vpril {vide III, 3. c., supra). ii. Hindu male, cet. 18. Admitted witli sinuses eading to base, tibia, and fibula of resulting from .u abscess which occurred six months ago. The linuses were freely laid open and small se- iiiestra removed. The wounds healed by gra- nulation. Patient left hospital with a sound eg after a stay of 71 days. 2. Resection for ununited fracture of bone of ''prearm.—-Hindu male, cet. 30. Sustained a com- puud fracture of left forearm by the bite of a nule a year and nine months ago. Both bones nunited. Seat of fracture 2J inches above the '/rist-joiut. Wrist-joint stiff, but movement of ingers perfect. The false joint between the radial fragments ?as exposed by a longitudinal incision. The sur- aces of the joint were removed, and the frag- fieuts drilled and brought together by silverwire. ?lie ulnar false joint was similarly exposed by a pngitudinal incision, on the ulnar side; the frag- ments were found to be pointed and attached y fibrous tissue. The ends were snipped off y bone-forceps and left in the wound. Both ounds were carefully stitched and dressed an- septically. The wounds remained aseptic and (ealed by first intention. The wire was removed 1 days after operation, and its track healed up !> four days. The limb was then fixed in starch, batient left hospital 93 days after the oper- rion. The radius had united, but there was still tight movement between the ulnar fragments. He was furnished with a leather belt to steady »e limb.PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 16 *** The expedient adopted in this case in orde to procure union of the pointed fragments t the ulna is worthy of notice. The points wer snipped off by bone-forceps, and, having bee I placed behind the freshened ends of the broke! I shaft, were left in the wound. The object waste leave as much material as possible for the forma tion of new bone in the wound. For this purpose it is necessary : (a) to preserve the soft tissue con nections of the separated fragments as much a possible; and (b) to keep the wound aseptic The result was not perfect, but was probabl; more so than if the pieces had been removed The same expedient was employed in a simila Ciise in 1885 with partial success. The patien i absconded before the final result of the expe dient could be observed. Y. AMPUTATIONS FOR INJURY. 1. Primary amputation of the arm.—i. Hind male, cet. 16. Lower third of arm badly lace rated by a machine six hours before admissioi Amputation of the arm above the seat of injur performed by the modified circular method unde strict antiseptic precautions. Drainage tub removed on fourth and stitches on tenth daj Left hospital in 23 days with a sound stump. ii. Iiiudu male, cet. 25. Forearm smashe by an oil-machine. Amputation performed abov elbow by modified circular plan. Wound hea ed by first intention, and patient left liospiti with a sound stump in 30 days. 2. Primary amputation of the forearm.- Hiudu male, cet. 20. Left hand and wrist crusheJPRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 17 jy a wheel in a mill. Amputation performed at mver third of forearm. Wound healed by first intention, and patient discharged 18 days alter operation. 3. Secondary amputation of both arms for mnqrene.—Hindu male, cut. 30. Admitted on 31st May with severe burn of both hands and fore- arms, caused by falling into a hearth of blazing ;oal. Extensive sloughs formed : and on the 3rd )f June gangrene was found to have set in, and o have reached the upper third of the right arm a,ud a little above the elbow of the left arm. He vassuffering from symptoms of blood-poisoning. Temperature 102°. Both arms were amputated well beyond the seat of disease, the right just pelow the shoulder-joint, and the left at the ower third. Patient died of shock the same evening. Gangrene had recurred on the left side. %* A hopeless case. 4. Secondary amputation of the leg for gan- grene.—Hindu female, cat. 50. Admitted 13th October with compound fracture of the left eg above the ankle caused by the wheel of a cart. Wound sloughy, and bone bare. An attempt was made to save the foot, but the leg became oedematous, the wound more uuhealthy, and symptoms of septicaemia appeared. The leg iwas removed below the knee on the 18th. The Case did badly, flaps sloughed, and constitutional condition got worse. She died 5 days after the operation from exhaustion caused by septicaemia. *** Amputation performed as a dernier resort. 5. Secondary amputation of the leg for 'spreading traumatic gangrene.—Pliudu male, :ait. 62. Admitted with severe lacerated wound BPRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 18 of right foot exposing the os calcis. The woum did badly from first. It bled on the second da and was found gangrenous on the fourth. Th patient’s temperature was high throughout. 0 the sixth day the gangrene had invaded the leo and amputation was performed below the knee tetanus set in, aud patieut died 24 hours afte the operation. *** A hopeless case. AMPUTATIONS FOR DISEASE. 6. Amputation through the shoulder-joint fo sarcoma.—Hindu male, cet. 23. Admitted wit a large tender swelling of the right forearri implicating the skin, of 5 years’ duration. Re cent growth very rapid. Several small tumour existed in the arm aud about the wrist, and som of the axillary glands were enlarged. All tin lumps were very painful, and patient was inucl worn out with suffering. He had nodules o inolluscum fibrosum all over the body. Th arm was removed through the shoulder joint b Spence’s method (large deltoid flap cut froi: without), the brachial plexus was found matte' aud thickened and was removed just below th level of the clavicle, and a mass of diseasec glands was taken out of the axilla. The woum healed mostly by first iuteution. Some suppu ration took place in the cavity. The patien had recovered sufficiently in 36 days to leav the hospital, but there was a very suspiciou fulness of the posterior flap—suggesting recur: rence. He has not beeu heard of since his dis charge. Examination of the limb fully cun firmed the diaguosis.PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 19 7. Amputation of the thigh for Sarcoma.— Hindu male, cat. 50. Admitted with a soft tumour if eight mouths’ duration, implicating the knee- joint and lower extremity of the femur, which had [undergone spontaneous fracture 15 days previous- ly. The growth being evidently malignant ampu- tation was performed at the upper third of the thigh. The wound healed well, but the disease O J m recurred in the pelvis and stump, and patient died of exhaustion 88 days after operation. The (tumour was found to be a spindle called sarcoma. 8. Amputation of both legs for dry gangrene. —Hindu male, cet. 28. Suffered from fever two months ago, followed by swelling of both legs and feet. Abouta month ago, his feet lost vitality, and blisters, followed by ulceration, appeared above the ankles. The feet are dry and shrivelled and there is a deep sulcus down to the bones about two inches above the ankle-joint, separating the dead parts from the living. The condition is 'exactly symmetrical, and patient looks as if he had on a pair of black moccasins. The tips of (the middle fingers are also gangrenous. The dead parts were removed by amputation, (the operation consisting in constructing flaps out of the surviving tissues with the least possi- ble sacrifice of parts and dividing the bone at pi sufficiently high level to admit of apposition bf the edges of the flaps. The wound healed rnostly by first intention, and the patient was discharged in 55 days, able to get about with Crutches and circular boots. The deep dressings |—bo racic gauze, spinkled with iodo-form—were mot changed in this case for eight days. The right ileg healed in 11 days, and the left in 22 days.20 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 9. Amputation of the leg for gangrene.— Hindu male, cet. 48. Admitted lltli April, : Suffered from an inflamed corn four months ago. , which suppurated and left a sinus. This gave ; him no trouble until a fortnight ago, when , he got ague and measles, followed by inflam- mation of the foot, which led to gangrene. On admission the whole foot was found to be gan grenous, and some sinuses at the outside of th ankle-joint led to dead bone. Urine container albumen. Patient takes 26 grains of opiun: daily. Has been having low fever with hiccu| during the last few days. Looking to the mau’i constitution and habits, the state of the kidney: and the character of the lesion, it was though advisable not to amputate. The part was care fully disinfected by bichloride lotion and iodofonu and suitable constitutional treatment employed, A line of demarcation formed above the ankle but on the 13th, he had severe bleeding fron the foot, followed by a temperature of 104° ana prostration and hiccup. Next morning (14th signs of a return of bleeding being evident and no possibility existing of securing the poin in any way in the midst of a gangrenous mass amputation was thought necessary. The leg was removed above the line of de marcation with the strictest antiseptic precau tion. The operation was followed by market improvement in the constitutional conditions subsidence of fever, disappearance of hiccup, &c The discharges remained sweet for four days On the fifth, they were found to be putrid On the eighth day the wound looked sloughy' On the fourteenth, the bare end of the tibi; it21 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. tirotruded; some improvement and attempt at ■epair took place till the twenty-fourth day, when fever set in, and Gangrene of the posterior Hap became evident. This progressed upwards, land on the twenty-eighth day, when he was re- moved in a moribund state, the gangrene had extended as far as the upper part of the thigh. Amputation was resorted to in this case to save life, which was urgently threatened by severe haemorrhage. The combination of Bright’s disease and excessive opium eating contra-iudi- icated operation, which was undertaken under the pressure of imminent peril to life. It seemed at first as if success would be achieved, but the (constitutional depravity finally asserted itself. The case is one of a class not uncommon in Ben- gal, in which, on account of diabetes, Bright’s disease, or excessive indulgence in opium singly or combined, the use of the knife is almost certain to be followed by gangreue. 10. Amputation of leg for caries of the ankle. i—Hindu male, cet. 32. Had been previously loperated on unsuccessfully for caries of the tars- tsus and ankle-joint (see IV. 1. f. i. and III. 3. c.). Amputation was performed by Teale’s method. The wound healed kindly in fifteen days. He lleft hospital 20 days after the late operation. 11. Amputation of the leg for epithelioma of the foot.—Hindu male, at. 50. Had gangrene of !both feet after fever 25 years age, resulting in spontaneous amputation of the foot between the two rows of tarsal bones (Chopart’s amputa- tion.) He hurt the left stump a year ago, and au ('ulcer formed, which has continued to iucrease. ! This ulcer presented on admission the charactersPRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 22 of an epithelioma. Leg amputated above ankl i by a short internal and long external flap. Th ■ wound suppurated, and part of the outer fla; sloughed. Healing took place by granulation and the patient left hospital with a sound stum] ; 75 days after the operation. 12. Spine’s amputation for sarcoma of foot.— Mahomedan male3«£. 32. Disease of three years i duration, implicating dorsum of foot; souin i heel flap available. Wound remained asepticj and healed kindly. A small sinus at the inne- corner of the wound caused some delay. Patien discharged 60 days after operation with a callou and useful stump. No sign of recurrence. Ha not been heard of since. 13. Syme’s amputation for caries of th\ ankle-joint.—Mahomedan male, act. 35. Had ; fall six months ago, followed by inflammation o right ankle. Abscesses appeared over outer and inner ankle in a month, which discharged i good deal of pus. The opening thereby causec and a third which formed subsequently, have persisted up to the present. Bare bone cau lx felt through them. Amputation performed b} Syme’s method. Ankle-joint found to be dis- organized. Sinuses were scraped out by i sharp spoon. The cavity of the wound sup- purated and a counter-opening through tin heel flap became necessary. Repair was slow i and occupied about five mouths, at the end o which time the sinus had healed, and patieni was discharged with a callous stump which bor< the weight of the body well. 14. Amputation of the penis for slougliina consequent on extravasation of urine.—HindiPRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 23 n 1 s .2 S -*j g ur o o <£ 'S!-“ «—« .© <p o © co ^ s rt — © ►j ■< H O c 9 'o OJ *7» o £.2 W 70 a> e3 2d 3 fl O o3 -a c/2 d a a M ft o CO — No. co co oo d * : : : 1 : :::,: o' : : : ; O - : : - P. C, 166 25 o © —< o - o 523 (M — — P. c. QZ 001 ft • <M O CM No. • W CD 00 d a d 00 100 ,s» fc •• «3 | -*3 a o : r - 5 o fc : - • ; ; • ►» . >> c3 • g-S .1 3 »H 0J 2- CO Total © ►» " J- C3 .2, S .5 d t- *-» o oPRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 24 The numbers are too small for any profitabh analysis. The method of operation adopted in all bu four cases, where Spence’s, Teale’s, and Syme’t special procedures were followed, was what i called the modified circular—oval flaps o; equal or unequal length, according to circuin- stances, composed of skin, subcutaneous anc muscular fascia cut from without; a circulate or obliquely upward division of muscles at tin base of the flaps and division of the bone i little higher up. This is the most convenieui and successful method in the great majority of circumstances. Great care was taken in securing exact apposition of the flaps and draining the stump cavity, and strict antiseptic precautions according to the method which will be subse* quently described were adopted in all cases. These were successful in all cases iu which it is not otherwise stated. YI. Removal of Tumours {by Excision). A.—Malignant Tumours. 1. Sciri'hus of mamma and axillary glands.— i. European, ait. 45. Tumour of left breast of three mouths’ duration. Skiu not in- volved. Nipple not retracted. General health fair. Gland removed by elliptical incisions. Two cancerous glands removed from the axilla. Edges of incision brought together by metal- lic and horse-hair stitches, and an incision made for drainage in the lower flap. Dressed antiseptically. Wound remained aseptic, and healed by first intention, except about two inches of its centre which was closed by granu- <PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 25 ation. No constitutional disturbance of conse- uence. Discharged 21 days after the operation. Returned in a few days complaining of palpi- tation which was found to he functional, and Subsided under treatment. ii. Hindu, oat. 42. Tumour of left breast of ttwo years’ duration. Skin involved and nipple retracted. Axillary glands enlarged and in- durated. General health fair. Gland extir- U>ated by two elliptical incisions. Axillary ands removed. Wound closed by metallic and Ihorse-hair sutures. Dressed antiseptically, and remained aseptic. Left hospital with a sound cicatrix fifteen days after the operation. iii. Hindu, oat. 56. Scirrhus of right breast of five months’ duration. Skin implicated. Nipple retracted. Axillary glands diseased. A few enlarged and indurated glauds also above clavicle. An incision about two inches long was, in the first instance, made above the clavicle parallel to the sterno-mastoid for the purpose of, if possible, removing the diseased supra-clavicular glands. These glands were taken away by means of the finger, and no more were felt. The breast was then removed including; the skin covering it. The axilla was thorough- ly emptied of glands. Several small hard glands were found beneath the clavicle and be- tween the pectoral muscles. A curved iucision was made below the axilla to permit of the transplantation of skin upwards aud forwards to fill the large gap caused by the free removal of skin. A drainage tube was carried under the •clavicle from the neck wound to the lower angle of the axillary wound, and the whole dressed26 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. antiseptically with great care. The wound re- mained sweet for three days, then putrefied. Suppuration took place, and high fever and diar- rhoea ensued. Pronounced symptoms of septi- cacmia of a severe type set in on the twelfth day, and patient was removed in a moribund state fourteen days after the operation. %* This was a very severe operation ; but there is every reason to think that the case would have done well had the wound remained aseptic. The wound probably became septic in conse- quence of the movements of the head disturb-- ing the upper portion of the dressing. Efforts' were made by means of injections to extirpate putrefaction, but without avail. iv. Eurasian, cet. 40. Tumour of left breast noticed two months ago. Skin not adherent ; axil- lary glands enlarged and indurated ; general health delicate. Mamma removed by elliptical in- cisions including nipple. Several diseased glands • removed from axilla. Edges of wound brought into accurate contact, and a hole made in the lower flap for drainage. A small portiou of the lower flap sloughed at the centre of the wound and some suppuration took place around it. The rest of the wound healed by first intention. The drainage tubes were gradually shortened. Left hospital 31 days after operation with the wound nearly healed. v. Hindu, cet. 30. Cancer of the right breast of 11 months’ duration ; skin involved ; axillary glands enlarged and indurated. Breast extir- pated together with the skin covering it. Axilla thorough cleared. A large flap was taken from the side of the chest and moved upwards auuPRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 27 liwards to fill up the wound. It was stitched vith catgut, and two triangular gaps left on ■iich side to heal by granulation. Wound re- named aseptic. Flaps contracted adhesions Hid the intervals between them healed by gra- nulation. Patient remained in hospital 80 days. 2. Removal of recurrent cancerous glands.— i. European male, cat. 55. Had been oper- .ted on for epithelioma of tongue (see e, i, >elo\v). A gland situated beneath the left terno-inastoid became enlarged aud was euu- lleated on the 11th of February. The wound lealed within a week. ii. Same case. Another gland beneath the lame muscle, lower dowu, underwent enlarge- aent and was extirpated on the 20th of March ; lie wound healed rapidly, but the disease re- urred at the root of the neck beyond reach of ■peration. He left the hospital on the 23rd of ipril. 3. a. Epithelioma of the Scalp.— Hindu female, ?t. 45. Had a tumour of the occiput from hildhood, which attained the size of a foetal lead and was removed eight months ago. It has lecurred and presents the appearance of a large lauliflower excrescence. It was removed to- other with a liberal margin of sound scalp. 1'lie tumour was adherent to the occipital pro- luberance which was chipped off with a chisel. I" 'lie wound remained aseptic and healed by gra- ulation. She remained in hospital 70 days, aud u her discharge no sign of recurrence was bserved. She has not been beard of since she (eft hospital. b. Epithelioma of the nose and face.—Hindu28 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. male, ait. 45. A small nodule appeared at the tip of his nose four months ago, which rapidly increased and spread until the disease involved the whole of the upper lip, whole of the nose as far as the bridge, and the adjacent cheek tc some extent. The tumour presented the charac- teristic signs of epithelioma. It was isolated by two incisions starting,, from the angles of the mouth and meeting-over the nasal bones. The growth was undermined and removed, leaving the patient without an upper lip and nose.- Symmetrical flaps were cut from the cheek tc supply their place and stitched together in the middle line. Some diseased glands were also removed from below the jaw. Patient got high reactive fever. Diarrhoea set on on the third day, and he died of exhaustion 60 hours after the operation. c. Epithelioma of the cheek.—Hindu female. cet. 50. Was in the habit of chewing lime and tobacco leaves since the age of nine ; noticed a growth on the inside of the right cheek 1J years ago. It now extends from the angle of the mouth to the level of the last molar, and from about an inch below the upper alveolus to the lower, which is to some extent implicated. Tongue and floor of mouth healthy. Cheek di- vided by an incision curving from angle ofmoutli outwards and downwards. Growth isolated and removed by division of buccal mucous mem- brane. One tooth extracted and gum of lower jaw removed together with subjacent alveolar process; a diseased gland removed from below angle of lower jaw. Wound carefully stitched. It healed by first intention in 14 days. PatientPRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 29 left hospital 27 days after operation. No sign f recurrence. d. Epithelioma of lower lip.—Eurasian male, )et. 37. Observed a growth of the right side >f the lower lip three years ago. During the last nonth the right submaxillary gland has been Undergoing enlargement. The growth now occu- ties the right half of the lower lip, and the fight submaxillary gland is large and indu- cted. The right half of the lip was removed by i V shaped incision, and the submaxillary gland nucleated through a straight incision. Both (rounds were carefully stitched and healed by irst intention. He left hospital 22 days after the operation. Some induration remained in the ubmaxillary region. He was subsequently eadmitted with a recurrence of the disease See f, i below). e. —Epithelioma of the tovgue.— i. European male, at. 55. About 10 years igo noticed a small growth on the tongue which is said to have been cured by a Persian physician. Two years ago this growth re-appeared, and has >een extending ever since. He suffered from yphilis in youth, and under the impression that lie growth was syphilitic, be was treated with large doses of iodide of potassium without avail. L’lie left side of the tongue is occupied by an indurated sloughy ulcer which extends from lie tip to the anterior pillar of the fauces, tv Inch is implicated. The left sublingual gland is enlarged and indurated. Total extirpation of Hie tongue was performed on the 8th of January. L'he floor of the mouth was divided externally in he middle line by au incision extending from thePRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 30 symphysis to the hyoid bone. Two needles j were passed from this wound beneath the lingua, I artery and brought out below the angle of the t lower jaw; the tissues between the surface and the needles being compressed by an elastic cord passed round the projecting ends. The deep attachments of the tongue were then separated by the linger and divided with scissors. Tht left sublingual gland was removed, and the operation completed by the ecraseur. A drain age tube was placed in the submental wound and the parts freely sprinkled with iodoform The wound healed slowly by granulation, anc was soundly cicatrized. Patient was able to tall very distinctly and retained some sense of taste <{ being able to distinguish salt from sugar. The disease subsequently recurred in tin glands of the neck, and two operations were per-: formed for their extirpation on the lltli of Febru- ary and 20th March (see 2 i, ii, above). Recur- rence again took place beyond reach of operation and he finally left hospital on the 23rd o April. ii. East Indian female, at. 72, admitted witl a warty growth on the right side of the tongue about the size of a hazel nut of five months’ dura- tion. The growth was removed by curved scissors and the edges of the wound stitched with catgut. It healed in 7 days, and patient left hos- pital 13 days after the operation. Recurrence subsequently took place in the cervical glands situated beneath the right sterno- mastoid. (See g, below). f.—Epithelioma of the lower jaio.— i. Eurasian male, at. 37, had undergonePRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 31 operation for cancer of the lower lip and sub- paxillary gland. (See d, above.) Readmitted me month after the operation with a hard apidly growing lump in the right submaxil- ary region; skin infiltrated. A triangular piece if skin was removed with all the morbid material imlerlying it, including the lower border of the ower jaw to which it adhered. The dissection vas deep and difficult. The wound was closed >y flaps taken from the neighbourhood. It did veil, but recurrence again took place iu the neck and cheek, and patient declining further operation, which indeed was not pressed, left the mspital 55 days after the last operation, and vas subsequently reported to have died. ii. J. C., aged 30, an Englishman, and engine- ilriver by occupation, was admitted on the 11th [of November 1886. In the preceding January ie had had an operation performed for cancer if the lower lip. He remained well till August ivhen a swelling formed beneath the chin which gradually increased, and finally burst, leaving im open sloughy sore with an extensive aud ileep indurated base. On admission, the disease was found to in- volve the lower lip, chin and lower jaw, and extend down the front of the neck as far as the Bpisternal notch. The man was fairly nourish- 'd, but suffered from bronchitis. The larynx 'vas found to move up and down duriuor desrlu- , i o o ition, and no enlarged gland could be detected. A.t the patient’s urgent entreaty an operation Ivas performed. The central half of the lower lip was isolated by vertical incisions which were carried to the angles of the lower jaw, aud32 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. along the anterior borders of the sterno-mastoids as far as the episternal notch where they met. i The lower jaw was divided at the angles, and j the whole of the tissues included in the inci- sion removed down to the surface of the larynx. Both submaxillary and sublingual glands were taken away, and the body of the hyoid bone, which was eroded, removed. The operation was of a very formidable character, and some 60 vessels had to be ligatured. The edges of what remained of the lower lip were brought toge- ther. Laryngotomy was found to be necessary owing to the falling back of the tongue and epiglottis. The wound was sprinkled with iodoform, and dressed with boraoic gauze. Patient was fed at first per rectum, and then by a funnel and tube passed into the oesophagus. The parts gradually healed. The lower lip adhered, and the wound on the front of the neck underwent granulation, cicatrization and contraction. Patient was taught to feed him- self, and improved greatly in general health, He continued to wear the tracheal tube ; bui was able to walk about the hospital grounds. About two months after the operation, infiltra- tion of the skin was observed at a little did- I tance from the wound on either side. These lumps have extended and ulcerated, and are now rugged sloughy open sores set on a deep, hard, extensive base exactly resembling that which existed on his chin when lie was admitted. He is emaciating, and the end is not I far off. (Died 31st May). q.—Epithelioma of the neck (recurrent). — Patient had undergone an operation for cancer |PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 33 If the tongue (e ii) on the 28tli of -April. Iu he middle of August she noticed a swelling >elow the right ear which has been gradually ncreasing. It is about the size of an orange, ot red and tender, and movable. On the 23rd f October an attempt was made to remove lie tumour ; but it was found to embrace the arotid artery and internal jugular vein, and he operation was not completed. As much of lie cancerous material as had broken down was Scraped away, and the wound left open and iressed auliseptically. Patient lived for 52 iays ; the tumour increased and fuugated, and eath was due to exhaustion. h.—Epithelioma of the penis and inguinal lands.—Hindu male, cet. 32. The disease ap- eared eight months ago. The glans and pre- use are involved and the inguinal glands on •oth sides. The penis was removed by Hilton’s hetliod, the corpus spongiosum being cut half In inch longer than the corpora cavernosa, lit on the ventral aspect ami attached to the nver angle of the wound by a few horse-hair lutures. The inguinal glands were extirpated >y incision parallel to Poupart’s ligament; they Fere beginning to break down. The penis ealed well, but recurrence took place in the ;roins. Patient lived for 38 days, and died of xhaustion due to fever and diarrhoea. The ever existed prior to the operation aud persisted o the end. The diarrhoea set in 20 days before lentli and proved uncontrollable. *#* The foregoing record of 17 operations >r cancer, concerns 13 cases; two patients aving undergone a second operation and one CPRECIS OF OPERATIONS- 34 patient two secondary operations for recur ; rence. Two of the patients had moreove i been subjected t.o a primary operation befori i admission. Of the 13 persons, 4 died in hos- i pital, 2 left hospital in a hopeless state, 1 i still in hospital in a dying state, and 6 reco- vered and left hospital without any si^n of re currence. Four of these were cases of scirr lius of the breast, in which a thorough reinova I of axillary glands was resorted to in addition to extirpation of the mamma and free remova of the affected skin. The record is a melan choly and disheartening one. In the cases ii which recurrence occurred, this took place ii all but one instance in the nearest lymphatit gland. The experience of the year reiterate; the old lesson, that the only hope of success ii , operations on cancer consists in very liberal ablation of tissues in the vicinity of the disease and the careful removal of suspicious glands ii the neighbourhood. Even when these measure: have been adopted with an unsparing hand the result is too often disappointing and dis as t rous. 4. a.—Excision of Sarcoma of the left Uppe\ . Jaw.—Hindu male. Get. 19. Five months ago i ; swelling of the left upper jaw was noticed ; which has rapidly increased in size. It in- volves the whole of the left superior maxilh and part of the malar bone. The eye is not displaced, but there is a large bulging of tin alveolar and palate processes into the mouth The whole of the left upper jaw bone and malai were removed in the usual manner. Fergus- son’s method of dividing the skin was followedPRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 35 The wound was accurately closed by horse-hair I stitches, and the cavity stuffed with boracio lint sprinkled with iodoform. The skin wound lealed by first intention, and patient left hospital 24 days after the operation with a sunken dieek and a hole about ^ an inch in diameter in die roof of the mouth. He returned a few months afterwards with a recurrence of the rumour in the angular process of the frontal none and roof of the orbit. A second opera- tion was not considered feasible. b.— Sarcoma of the hard Palate.—Hindu male, cet. 35. Soft tumour of hard palate in- volving also the alveolar processes of both su- perior maxillae as far as the bicuspid teeth ; of ive months’ duration ; very vascular and ul- cerated on the surface, bleeding profusely. The upper lip was divided in the middle line and die incision carried into the nostrils. The soft parts were raised off the surface of the tumour, and the soft palate divided horizontally. The cartilaginous septum of the nose was divided, and central portions of the upper jaw together with the tumour removed by means of a bone "orceps. A good deal of blood was lost. Patient lied of shock in six hours. The tumour was found to be a small round-celled sarcoma. c.— Sarcoma of the shoulder.—Mahomedan male, cet. 50. Had a tumour removed from the top of the right shoulder seven years ago. It reappeared six months ago, and has attained the size of a hen’s egg. It is freely movable, is soft and fluctuating and lias been bleeding for the last few days. It was removed with a liberal margiu of adjacent skin, and a flap was taken3G PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. from 1 lie shoulder to cover the wound. Repair was satisfactory, and patient left hospital with a sound cicatrix in 33 days. The tumour was found to be a spindle-celled sarcoma. d. —Sarcoma of the Arm.—Hindu male, cet. 27. Tumour of middle head of left triceps of three years’ duration, skin not implicated. It was exposed by a longitudinal incision and thorough- ly removed together with the long head of the triceps. The wound healed by first intention, and patient left hospital l9 days after the oper- ation. He has not been heard of since. e. —Sarcoma of Back.—Hindu male, cet. 30. ! Had been operated on two years ago for a tumour of the back of about six years’ duration. The growth soon recurred and it is now 4 inches long by 2 inches broad, soft fungating but movable; situated between1 the spine and right scapula. It was removed together with a free margin of adjacent skin and liberal amount of subjacent tissue. The wound healed by granu- lation in 63 days. f. — Sarcoma of the Buttock.—Eurasian female, cet. 52. Noticed a tumour on the right gluteal region 9 months ago, which was removed five months ago. Another tumour had grown on the scar. It is about the size of a pigeon’s egg, and involves the skin and subjacent fascia. It was removed together with a liberal margin of surrounding tissue. The wound healed by granulation in 40 days. B.—Non-Malignant Tumours. i. Elephantiasis of the Scrotum.—i. Hindu, cet. 21. Had a suppurated hydrocele twelve37 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. pears ago. Scrotum began to enlarge four years tgo. Tumour removed by the method referred to below ; weighed 7 fbs. 10 oz. after removal. Wound remained aseptic; deep dressing removed after 14 days. Remained in hospital 74 days. ii. Hindu, at. 40. Two years’ duration. Tumour removed as usual ; weighed 2 fbs. 2 oz. Wound remained aseptic ; deep dressing changed lifter 12 days. Left hospital 51 days after Operation. iii. Hindu, at. 25. Six years’ duration. Jsual operation. Tumour weighed 5 fbs. 9 oz. Wound remained aseptic, and healed iu 59 days ; leep dressing removed in 16 days. iv. Hindu, at. 43. Small tumour of four gears’duration. Health good. Usual operation. Weighed 12 oz. Wound remained aseptic, jeft hospital in 49 days. v. Mahomedan, at. 35. Tumour of two gears’ duration. Health good. Excised in the Usual way. Weighed 1 fb. 1 oz. Wound re- mained aseptic. Left hospital 84 days after iperation. vi. Hindu, at. 50. Scrotal tumour of four years’ duration. Has had hydrocele for 15 years. Legs also elephantoid. Suffering from fever. Addicted to hemp. On subsidence of the fever, the tumour was removed in the usual manner. An abscess existed in the right side of the scrotum. Severe fever set in on the even- ing of the second day, and lasted for two days, when the temperature became subnormal and patient became weak and delirious. Prostra- tion ensued, and death by exhaustion occurred six days after the operation. The wound re-PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 38 mained aseptic. A post-mortem examination could not be obtained. vii. Mabomedan, at. 39. Tumour of twelve years’ duration. Health good. Usual operation. Weighed 2 lbs. 8 oz. Wound remained aseptic. Left hospital 62 days after operation. viii. Hindu, at. 30. Small tumour of one and a half year’s duration. Health good. During the operation an unobliterated processus vaginalis was found on the right side. It was isolated, tied at the external ring, and the re mainder removed. The operation was completed in the usual way. An abscess formed on the right side, which was opened in the groin and drained. The wound healed by granulation, and patient left hospital 62 days after the operation. ix. Mahomedan, cet. 40. Has suffered from hydrocele for 15 years. The scrotum has under- gone thickening of late with periodical attacks of fever. Health good. The thickened skin was removed in the usual way, the hydrocele emptied, and the redundant tunicas pared off. The testes were stitched in pockets. Wound remained aseptic. Left hospital 62 days after oper- ation. x. Hindu, cet. 40. Scrotal tumour of ten years’ duration. Health good. Removed in the usual manner. Weighed 3 lbs. 15 oz. Wound i remained aseptic. Left hospital 59 days after operation. xi. Hindu, cet. 25. Small tumour of two months’duration. Health good. Inguinal glands on both sides enlarged and breaking down. Tumour removed by the usual operation. Weighed 1 tb. 15 oz. Inguinal glands extir-PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 39 ated. Wound remained aseptic, and healed by ranulation. Left hospital in 53 days. xii. Hindu, at. 38. Scrotal tumour of three ears’ duration. Health good. Operation as sual. Large hydrocele containing 16 oz. of aid on right side. Tumour weighed 8 lbs. '’lie edges of the flaps covering the testes ouglied to a slight extent. The sloughs pparated and wound healed by granulation, jeft hospital 65 days after operation. xiii. Mahomedan, at. 25. Scrotal tumour of our years’ duration with right inguinal reducible ernia. Health good. The tumour, which weighed 13 oz., was removed in the usual way, ml the sac of the hernia was then isolated, tied t the neck, and removed. The pillars were •rought together by catgut. Suppuration took •lace in the hernial wound, and a small abscess .Iso formed in the perinaeum. With these xceptions, repair proceeded in a favourable nanner, and patient left hospital quite cured of •oth tumour and hernia in 65 days. xiv. Mahomedan, cut. 40. Tumour of two -ears’ duration. A few lymphatic vesicles on the urface; double hvdrocele. Health good. Oper- ition as usual. Weighed 1 lb. 7 oz. Wound re- mained aseptic and healed in 70 days. xv. Eurasian, at. 35. Had a small scrotal umour removed in 1880. Underwent an oper- ition shortly afterwards for adhesion of the under surface of the penis to the cicatrix. Had |i small lymph-scrotum removed in 1885. This lealed soundly, but the skin on each side of die scar has again become spongy and liyper- rophied. This skiu was thoroughly removed40 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. by an elliptical incision, and the edges stitched. The wound remained aseptic and healed in 38 days. xvi. Hindu, cet. 35. Tumour of eight months’ duration. Development accompanied with periodical fever. Health good. Usual operation performed. Large hydrocele on right and small on left side; tumour weighed 1 lb. 10 oz. Wound remained aseptic and healed in 72 days. xvii. Hindu, cet. 45. History of two at- tacks of gonorrhoea, the last four months ago, followed by swelling of the scrotum. Meatus uriuarius contracted and glands indurated. The Ii 1r afro meatus was slit open, and No. 12 catheter easily passed into the bladder. The glans was removed, and the tumour excised in the usual way. It weighed 1 lb. The wound healed kindly, and patient left hospital 49 days after operation. xviii. Hindu, cet. 28. Very large tumour of five years’ growth, engorged with blood and serum and covered with gangrenous patches. Suffering from high fever. Evening temper- ature 103°. The fever abated under treatment, the gangrenous patches slouched off, and an operation was performed six days after his admission in the usual manner. The tumour weighed 31 lbs. and both tunicae contained fluid. The wound was a large one and underwent putrefaction on the third day. It became aseptic in a week; during this period there was consi- derable fever, temperature ranging from 99° to 103°. Repair took place by granulation, and patient left hospital 75 days after the oper- ation. f t BUll lie I* ; I r:.41 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. xix. Hindu, cet. 40. Scrotal tumour of even years’ duration. Health good. Usual • peration. Right, tunica contained 6 piuts and ! oz. of fluid. Tumour weighed 8 fbs. 4 oz. rVound got foetid on the sixth day, and some loughs formed on the surface. There was slight lever at this period. About 35 days after the peratiou patient got an attack ot acute eczema 11 over his body which was thought to be ue to the bichloride of mercury. Iodide of otassiura was administered internally, and oracic dressings substituted for the bichloride, ’he eczema disappeared and patient left hospi- sd quite well 64 days after the operation. xx. Hindu, cet. 38. Grot acute hydrocele six ears ago. Both tunic© tapped and injected . year afterwards. Since then the scrotum has mdergone enlargement with periodical fever, spleen enlarged ; has fistula in auo. Consumes ive grains of opium daily. Tumour removed in he usual way ; weighed 12 ths. 2 oz. Wound emained aseptic, and recovery took place in >3 days. %* The operation in these cases was per- iormed according to the plan minutely describ- d in a clinical lecture which was published in he issue of the Indian Medical Gazette for Siovember 1882 and reproduced in my work on “Operative Surgery in the Calcutta Medical Dollege Hospital.” The parts were rendered and cept aseptic by the free use of a bichloride of mercury lotion (1 to 2000), and the wound was peppered with iodoform and carefully covered vitli boracic gauze before the outer-dressing, ponsisting of coarse gauze (bandage cloth)42 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. soaked iu bichloride and glycerine (1 to 500) | was applied. On removal of the outer-dressing, the gauze received a fresh sprinkling of iodo- I form and was left in situ for from 10 to 14 I days. When removed, the wound was found in full process of aseptic granulation. These i measures kept the wound aseptic and free of suppuration in all but a few cases, and in these the putrefaction and suppuration were partial. The tumours were mostly small and the i subjects healthy. The mortality (5 per cent.) was -j very favourable. The single fatal case was that; of an elderly man whose health had been shatter- ed by debauchery, and who succumbed from the shock of the operation and the subsequent reac- i tion, causing prostration and exhaustion. b. Elephantiasis of the labia.—Hindu, cet. 25. Suffered from double bubo a year ago and both i labia began to swell about a month ago. The labia were removed by elliptical incisions, the edges of which were brought together by catgut and healed in 25 days. 2. i. Lipoma of the thigh.—Hindu male, ; cet. 18. The tumour of 12 years’ growth occu- pies Scarpa’s triangle (right side), displacing.! the femoral artery outwards. It is about the i size of an apple, and freely movable. A straight i incision exposed it, and it was easily shelled out. The wound remained aseptic and healed in 31 days. ii. Lipoma of the groin.—Hindu male, cet. 24. I Large tumour of seven years’ duration extend- j iug from Poupart’s ligament to about 2 inches below the umbilicus on the right side, lobulated j uud freely movable. It was exposed by a43 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. straight incision, ami shelled out without diffi- culty. Wound remained aseptic and healed by first, iuteution. Patient left hospital iu 34 flays. 3. Simple -Epulis of lower jaw. — Hindu male, -jet. 16. The tumour began to grow six (months ago and occupies the left alveolus, Bjorrespomiing to the incisor and canine teeth, fiistory of fall three years ago. Five teeth were Extracted and the growth together with the subjacent gum and bone removed. Bleeding stopped by cautery. The wound healed kindly and patient left hospital in 11 days. • 4. Naso-pharyngeal polypus.—Mahomedan tmale, cet. 21. Noticed a growth in left nostril two years ago. It now protrudes from the nostril .which is much expanded and displaces the soft palate forwards. It is very hard, and there is a inuco-purulent discharge from the nostril. The (nose was slit open, exposing the chamber of tthe left nasal fossa. The chain ecraseur was (passed round the growth and part of it removed. The remainder was avulsed with a pair of (necrosis forceps. The fossa was stuffed with boracic lint and the nose carefully stitched. A good deal of blood was lost. The nose healed by first intention and the cavity by granula- tion. It was regularly washed out with Condy’s fluid. A few maggots came out of it for a dew days, but they disappeared under the use of iodoform. Left hospital perfectly well 37 Bays after the operation. 5. Cystic tumour of the lower jaw. — i. [Hi du male, cet. 26. Tumour commenced seven jyears ago. Implicates the whole of the rightPRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 44 half and (lie body of the left half of the jaw Tongue secured hy a cord. Lower lip dividei iu the middle line and the incision carriec downwards and to the right over the most pro ininent part of the mass where the integumen wns much stretched and thinned. Flaps reflect ed from outer surface of tumour; jaw divided a level of second molar tooth on left side, am removed by disarticulation on right side. Lq and wound carefully stitched. The lip healed by first intention and most of the wound. Patient left hospital quite recovered 57 days after the operation. Tumour weighed 2 Pos. 2 oz. It was an osteo-cystoma. ii. Hindu female, at. 40. Tumour of two years’ duration, involving the left half of the body of the lower jaw and extending be- yond the symphysis to the right side. Two sinuses, the result of recent suppuration, en- tered the body of the tumour from outside (suppurated cysts). A straight incision was made from the left angle of the mouth, the flaps dissected off and the jaw divided at the level of the 1st bicuspid tooth of the right side and through the angle of the left. The wound was carefully stitched and healed by first intention. Recovery was delayed some- what by bagging of matter beneath the divided angle which was bare, and a free counter opening had to be made. She left hospital quite well 89 days after the operation. Tumour weighed 1 lb. 2 oz. It was an osteo cystoma. Contrary to custom the lip was divided in both these cases. The tumours were very large aud the skin considerably thinned. Divi-45 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. >;ion of the lip facilitates the dissection, the division of the jaw and the seizure of bleeding Joints : and if the wound is carefully stitched, no deformity or inconvenience results. A large drainage tube was inserted in both cases into lie lower angle of the wound. This fulfils an Important purpose by preventing the accumu- lation of septic material in the floor of the Fnouth. It also permits more thorough wasti- ng out of the wound cavity. 5. Warty tumour of the penis.—Hindu, \zt. 23. The mucous membrane lining the pre- nuce and covering the glans is covered with L crop of large warts forming a continuous mass, whose base is surrounded by considerable lliickening. The growth of the warts followed an attack of gonorrhoea five months ago ; the irepuce cannot be retracted and a foul purulent lischarge issues from the preputial orifice. IThe preputial cavity was slit open, and the prepuce entirely removed ; the warts were also lissected off the surface of the glans. Some •ecurrence took place during the healing of the wound, and a second operation was necessary. Perfect recovery eventually took place. Patient •emained in hospital 58 days. 6. Removal of piles.—In these three cases he piles were isolated by means of Smith’s damp and removed by strong curved scissors, he cut surface being seared with Paquelin’s cau- ery. The operation was facilitated by cutting lie skin and mucous membrane surrounding the )ile with scissors before applying the clamp. A satisfactory result was obtained in all the leases.46 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. VII. Removal of foreign body from tk cheek.—Mahomedun male, cet. 45, admitteo with a sinus of the right cheek and complete inability to open his mouth. Nine months am. a pistol, with which he had been amusing him- self, burst, and a fragment of the barrel caused i the wound in his cheek. This was stitched am dressed, but after prolonged treatment failed t.e close. On probing the sinus a hard body was felt, and when the sinus was freely laid opei ! under chloroform, a piece of the barrel of tin pistol 3^ inches long, \ iuch broad and ^ incl thick was extracted. It was bent on itself a! its outer end, and the inner extremity projected into the pharynx behind the anterior pillar o the fauces. On extraction of the foreign body the mouth was fully opened by a screw-gaud and the wound stitched after a drainage tube had been inserted. The wound healed in i month, but some difficulty was experienced ii keeping the mouth open. The screw-gag had to be used frequently, and lie was retained it hospital for 84 days. He was taught to applj the screw-gag and when he left he could opeL his mouth to the exteut of about 1^-inch. VIII. Removal of Calculi. 1. Urethral Calculus removed by incision.— Mahomedan male, cet. 25, a boatman by oc- cupation, sustained an injury of the peringeum 6 years ago, which was followed by bleeding from the urethra and difficulty in micturition. This latter has persisted; and about three months ago he had fever, followed by swelling of the periuseum and scrotum. Ou admission, the[precis op operations. 47 peril) aeum was found to be hard and swollen, and in front of this swelling another larger soft fluc- tuating swelling projected between the testes, 'distending the scrotum. The prostate gland was found to be healthy, and he could make water in narrow jets sufficiently to empty his babbler. An attempt was made to pass a cathe- ter, but a very tight stricture was found to exist about three inches from the meatus. The scrotal swelling was punctured with a fine trocar. Urine escaped through the canula with fine aleulous sand. When the cyst was emptied of fluid, it was found to contain a large quantity lof calculous material. The patient was now chloroformed, and the cyst laid freely open in the middle line. About an ounce of calculous gravel and sand, composed, it was afterwards found, of urate of ammonia and phosphate of lime, was removed by a lithotomy scoop. The distant end of the urethra projected into the cyst as a nipple-shaped process about one inch ong at the apex of which a minute opening existed. This was enlarged by incision, and a No. 12 catheter finally carried into the bladder, frwhich was found to be empty. The cyst cavity mvas washed out daily, and a No. 12 catheter ^passed every third or fourth day. The cyst con- tracted, and the wound healed ; and he left hos- pital in two months, able to make water in a good stream. %* This is a very rare termination of a very ■“severe rupture of the urethra. The cavity of >itlie rupture appears to have been gradually (converted into a cyst in which urine lodged, and where a process of precipitation of urinary48 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. salts took place. The isolated and contracted urethral oriiice dipped into this cyst and re moved by a slow and jerky process the sur:j pins fluid. The plan of treatment adopted was i sufficiently obvious and succeeded well ; bu it is more than probable that the strictures condition of the urethra will recur. 2. Vesical calculus removed by suprnpulm | lithotomy.—Hindu male, let. 35. Has sufferer from symptoms of stone for two years, and oi two occasions passed small calculi. A large; stone was readily detected by the sound am also felt per rectum. It was also felt above tin pubis and seemed to be encysted in the orifice of the left ureter. The rectum was thicken® and somewhat contracted in calibre, apparent!\ i from syphilis, though this was denied. Tin distinctness with which the stone could be fel 1 through the abdominal wall and its positioi led me to elect suprapubic lithotomy. Tin urine was turbid, alkaline, and contained an excess of mucus and phosphates. Owing to the state of the rectum, no attemp was made to distend it. Eight ounces of bichlo ; ride of mercury lotion (1 in 4,000) were in jected into the bladder after it had been emptiec by means of a catheter; and a tape was tier round the penis to prevent the escape of th fluid. A vertical incision, about three inches in length was made above the pubic symphysis. Th muscles were cautiously separated, and the sur face of the bladder reached by scraping upwarr with the nail of the forefiuger from behind tin symphysis.PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 49 "When the surface of the bladder was laid ully bare, it. was steadied by a sharp hook, trans- fixed, and divided in the middle line by a fcalpel, from above downwards. The stone (pliosphatic) was found to be very friable, and broke down under the forceps into (several fragments, which were removed, and the bladder thoroughly washed out. It was found to oe fasciculated and pouched. A soft catheter was tied in, and a large drain- age tube inserted through the wound, which was not stitched. The catheter was removed in >4, and the tube in 48 hours. Urine was allowed 0 escape by the wound, being caught by a vessel Is the patient lay on his side. The bladder was ivashed out daily with glycerine of borax lotion dr. i to oz. i). For a month the urine escaped mtirely through the suprapubic wound. As the wound contracted, the discharge took place m increasing quantities through the urethra. S”o symptom causing any anxiety arose during nis convalescence; and his health was greatly [improved by diet and tonics. He was discharged 52 days after the operation. The fragments inveighed 14 drams. This calculus could doubtless have been removed by lateral lithotomy or litholapaxy, but 11 feel convinced that suprapubic lithotomy was t he safest and easiest method of dealing with it. 1 have repeatedly convinced myself by operations 'in the dead body that the peritoneum can easily -oe displaced upwards with the forefinger and the bladder opened without difficulty or danger, lu this case rectal distension was impossible. 3. Vesical calculi removed by litholnpaxy.—i. DPRICCIS OP OPERATIONS. 60 Native Christian male, cet. 40. Has had syrup toms of stone for six months. A small calculi) detected ; urine ammoniacal: no albumen. Tin stone was crushed, and the fragments evacuated the lithotrite and evacuator being twice inserted The debris (uric.) weighed 38 grains. He suffere< from epidv dimitis, orch ei tis, and scrotal abscess am had an attack of chicken pox. This caused hi detention in hospital for 20 days. He wasfinalh discharged quite free from urinary distress, ii. C. H. D , Ameri can, cet. 71, a feeble wasted, very nervous and irritable old man. Hat 1 is Ei tin suffered for years from frequent and painfu micturition and prolapsus of the rectum. A stone was detected, and the operation of litho- lapaxy performed. The crusher bad to be intro- duced ten times. The debris weighed loz. 6 drs A morphia suppository was introduced into tin rectum. The temperature rose rapidly, and lu became extremely restless and delirious, made water thrice. After seven hours temperature began to fall and symptoms of pros tration set in. He died of asthenia twelve hour! after the completion of the operation. *#* The shock of the operation was too mucl for this frail old man, whose system had beet worn out by prolonged torture and want o sleep. The symptoms were those of “ urethra fever ” of a severe type. iii. Mahomedan male, cet. 60. Symptoms o two years’ duration. A stone, weighing 3 dram; and 20 grains, composed of uric acid, ealciun oxalate, and traces of phosphates, crushed anc evacuated by two introductions. Patient lef hospital quite well nine days after the operation E if "J51 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. iv. Hindu mule, cet.42. Symptoms of 1 year’s luration. Small stone weighing 30 grains, com- >osed principally of calcium oxalate. Two irushings. Left hospital next day. v. Mahomedan male, cet. 35. Symptoms of wo years’duration. Debris weighed ldr.40grs., bainly oxalic; six introductions. Left hospital in 19 daysi IX. 1.— Tracheotomy. i. Mahomedan male, cut. 44. Admitted with edema of soft palate and fauces, swollen cervical jlands, discharge of pus and sloughs from the nose and imminent suffocation. Tracheotomy Lerformed by the Resident Surgeon with tem- porary relief. Died of exhaustion two hours jifter the operation. ii. Hindu male, cet. 25. Syphilitic laryngitis pausing extreme dyspnoea. Trachaea opened ibove the isthmus, and a canula inserted. Under reatment (Iodide of potassium, blisters, &c.), he swelling of the neck disappeared, but the tube ;ould not be dispensed with. After 4^ months’ •esideuce in hospital, lie was provided with a (diver canula and discharged in good health. Some air passed into the mouth when the canula *vas closed, and he could talk in a weak raucous ivav : but the canal was insufficient for breathing. iii. Mahomedan male, CBt. 35. Grea t difficulty- id breathing caused by cancer of the larynx. Jould hardly swallow on account of the fits of lyspnoea excited by the act of deglutition. Frachaja opened above the isthmus. Great re- lief obtained as regards both breathing and I wallowing. Left hospital, wearing a canula, 38PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 52 days after the operation, and has not been heart of since. iv. European child, aged three years. Cae of diphtheria with imminent suffocation. Track si opened above the isthmus by the Resident Surgeon. The child sank ten hours afterwards v. Hindu male,oe£. 7. Difficulty of breathin; caused by sarcoma of the pharynx. The tra chiea was opened just below the cricoid card lage. Relief was immediate. He was remove! I by his friends, wearing a canula, in 27 days The tumour and cervical glands continued t grow rapidly. vi. Hindu male, cet. 6 Case of diphtlieri causing dyspnoea. Lived for two days after tli opening of the trachaea. Died of diphtheria. vii. Hindu male, cut. 30. Great difficulty o breathing caused by syphilitic larynx. Neck brawny. Patient extremely feeble. Trachte : opened below isthmus. The swelling of the nee) disappeared under treatment (Iodide of potassiui and ling, hydrarg. Ciuiod. locally) and th canula was removed in 14 days. A full-sized bougie was passed through tli glottis from below upward and encountere' I no resistance. The wound closed in 48 day f and patient left hospital in 51 days in gou i health, and able to speak distinctly and breath 1 freely. *%* Life was undoubtedly saved in two c these cases (ii and vii) and prolonged in tw others (iii and v). In the remaining three cases two of diphtheria and one of ulcerated sore throat, temporary relief was conferred, but th | patients died of the diseases. ■53 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 2.— Cholecystotomy. East Indian female, cat. 32, admitted 26tli March. During the last two years suffered from requent attacks of hepatic colic, about a year i,ncl a half ago passed a bile stone. A distinct uruour was discovered on admission above and io right of the umbilicus projecting from the tuder surface of the liver, globular in form nd very tender on pressure. Bowels costive, general health good. Soon after admission, she iad a severe attack of fever and jaundice with increased tenderness of the tumour. This subsi- led under treatment (smart purgation with salomel and administration of autispasmodics lid anodynes). The tumour was proved to be the gall blad- der, by puncturing it with a hypodermic syriuge iud removing a few drops of bile. A longer needle was subsequently introduced and impart- d sensation of calculi. In view of the serious ttacks she had undergone, and the diagnosis of gall bladder filled with calculi, and the persist- mt pain, the operation of opening the gall ladder and removing the calculi was recorn- lended and consented to. On the 17th of April, the gall bladder was lautiously exposed under strict antiseptic pre- autions. It was found to be adherent to the bdominal wall, greatly thickened aud cou- acted, its cavity converted into pockets con- fining masses of inspissated bile and numerous mall calculi. About a dozen of these were prnoved with the scoop-end of a director, the dges of the divided bladder were stitched to ae wound, a large drainage tube inserted, andPRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 54 tlie wound stitched and dressed antiseptically, She remained free from fever for three days, but suffered from nausea, vomiting and flatulent, dis- tension of the abdomen. On the evening of the 20th, the temperature suddenly rose to lOS'G0 and she got jaundice and delirium. These con- ditions increased in severity, and she died of ex- haustion on the evening of the 24t,h. The wound remained aseptic. No bile issued from it uuti about four hours before her death, when a verj copious flow occurred. No post mortem exami- nation could be obtained. 3. Operations for strangulated hernia. i. Hindu male, cut. 42, admitted with strangu- lated right inguinal hernia. No history could bo obtained, as the patient was of defective intellect Hard, tender, dull swelling of light scrotum tongue dry ; pulse rapid and weak; no stoo for several days. About 18 oz. of sanguineou: serum were removed from the scrotum by tap ping. Taxis was then tried without effect. Tin sac was laid open ; the contents consisted of ; coil of highly congested and ecchymosed smal intestine, bathed in sanguinous fluid, and in i state of incipient inflammation. The intestini Avas returned, the sac dissected out, and re- moved after ligature of the neck. The pillar: were brought together by a double catgut liga ture, a counter opening made for drainage ii the fundus of the scrotum, and the wound care- fully stitched. The wound remained aseptic and healed completely within 22 days. Tw< abscesses formed in the scrotum and one in tin groin, which were opened and healed rapidly The bowels acted soon after the operation, am55 PEECIS OP OPERATIONS. [the constitutional symptoms underwent rapid improvement. He was discharged 88 days ifter the operation in good health, and with his rupture radically cured. ii. Mahomedan male, cet. 60, has suffered Vom right oblique inguinal hernia for 2 years, [t descended into the scrotum three days ago, And he has been unable to reduce it. Bowels )bstructed; frequent vomiting; tongue dry; Dulse weak and rapid ; tumour dull, painful, and reuse ; no impulse. Six ounces of sanguineous lerum were removed by a small trocar. The sac was laid open. It contained a mass of ecohy- nosed omentum and a loop of highly congested utestine. The omentum was ligatured in sec- tions, and the diseased portion cut off. The bowel ,vas returned, and the operation completed as in he preceding case. The wound remained asep- tic, aud healed completely in 19 days. He made a good recovery, and left hospital in 20 days, laving been provided with a truss, which he was advised to wear for some time, i iii. Hindu male, cet. 70. Had suffered from right oblique inguinal hernia for about a year, ft descended into the scrotum 38 hours before admission, and he has not been able to return it. (The tumour is dull and tender, and has no im- pulse ou coughing. Bowels obstructed ; vomit- ed once ; tongue moist; pulse regular, 92. Six- teen ounces of sanguineous fluid were removed prom the sac, the taxis tried, and then elastic (pressure for half an hour under chloroform with- out effect. The sac was then laid open. It con- tained highly congested intestine and mesentery Iwhich were glued to the interior of the sac byPRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 56 recent effusion. The contents were returned and the operation completed as in the previous i cases. On the 3rd day, tympanites set in, am ; on the 6th, the discharge was found to be offen- ) sive. Tetanus appeared on the 7th day am proved fatal in a few hours. iv. Hindu male, cet. 24 ; congenital hernia o i right side. Descended about an hour before! admission, and could not be reduced. Scrotuir ! swollen, tender, tense, and tympanitic. Vomited several times; pulse weak. Taxis tried withouii avail. The scrotum was tapped with a small i trochar, and some 16 ounces of sanguineous o serum (almost pure blood) removed. Taxis i; again tried, but without effect. The sac was i now laid open (8^ hours after the descent), i It was found to contain ccecum which was : filled with blood clot. It was punctured in: two places, and some sanguineous fluid removed. ; These punctures continuing to bleed, they were i ligatured with fine catgut. The ccecum was. then returned, the neck of the sac isolated and 1 tied, the rest of the sac (tunica) dissected ofl I the cord down to the testicle and removed, the pillars brought together with catgut, a counter ; opening made in the fundus of the scrotum, a drainage tube inserted, and antiseptic dressing applied. The case did well. Some suppuration took place in the wound, but it healed in 24 days. On the second and third days loose motions containing blood were passed. He remained in hospital 23 days, and was provided with a truss, which he was instructed to use for some time, although no impulse at the external ring j or sign of descent existed.PRECIS OE OPERATIONS. 67 V. Hindu male, cet. 29. Has had right oblique inguinal hernia for 10 years. Seven lays ago a descent took place while he strained lit stool, and since then he has not been able to return it. Taxis has been tried repeatedly .without avail. Has not passed stool for seven lays, nor flatus for three days. Tumour hard, (tense, and very tender; no impulse; abdomen tympanitic; pulse feeble; has vomited fre- rpiently ; is very restless. The sac was open- id, and found to be intensely congested and to ioutain a mass of matted omentum and a oop of very congested small intestine. The bmentum was removed after ligature in sec- tions. It weighed 1 lb. 5oz. The intestine iwas retdoyed, and the operation completed as in the previous cases. He soon obtained relief Eiy passing flatus and faeces. The wound re- named aseptic, and he was doing well until ive days after the operation, when tetanus set in. This disease pursued a very acute course, and caused death uext day. *** In all these cases measures were taken to procure a radical cure in addition to those which were necessary for the relief of strangu- lation. In the three cases which recovered, the result was, as far as could be judged, satisfac- tory. A truss was given as a precaution. In me of the fatal cases there were symptoms of peritonitis ; probably caused by gangrene of the bowel, but no post-mortem examination could be obtained. The onset of tetanus was in this case coincident with a putrid state of the dis- charge from the wound. In the second fatal .case it was uot so : uo symptom of abdominal58 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. . trouble existed, and the wound was aseptic. Several of the cases illustrate the importance of tapping the sac with a fine troehar, in order to ascertain the fact and degree of strangulation. The evacuation of fluid in this manner is also in some cases an aid to the taxis, when that procedure is deemed justifiable. 4. Operations for the radical cure of hernia. i. Mahomedan male, cet. 48. Right redu- cible inguinal hernia of one year’s dura- tion. General health good. Sac dissected out, transfixed, and tied at the neck with catgut. Rest of sac removed. Stump reduced into canal. Pillars brought together with double catgut thread. Counter-opening made in scrotum; tube inserted ; and antiseptic dressing applied Wound pursued an aseptic course, and healed in 15 days. He remained in hospital 40 days. The canal was firmly closed ; and there was no hernial impulse. He was provided with aspring, truss, and advised to wear it for some time. ii. Mahomedan male, cet. 30. Right oblique 'ji inguinal hernia of 20 years’ duration. Had been repeatedly strangulated; but was always re- r turned by taxis. This happened on the day of admission. Suffering fromfeverof remittenttype. He was detained in hospital for 40 days—un- til the fever subsided—and then operated on in the same manner as the last case. Suppura- tion took place in the track of the wound and repair was somewhat slow. He absconded 32 days after operation, when the wound was almost healed. Mahomedan male, cet. 30. Double oblique m. inguinal hernia; right of nine years’, and left of ' as M59 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. two years’ duration. Both operated on simul- taneously. Right sac removed after ligature; left, which was smaller, ligatured at neck, and re- duced in the canal. Wounds remained aseptic ; eft healed in 16 days, and right in 21. Was detained in hospital for 25 days, and provided with a double truss. Not heard of since his dis- charge. iv. Hiudu male, cet. 5. Suffering from ingui- nal hernia of the left side from the age of three months. The neck of the sac was exposed, iso- lated and ligatured in two places—the interveu- ing part being removed. The pillars were brought together, and the wound stitched and dressed autiseptically. Some swelling of the scrotum took place, and the wound suppurated. The patient had high fever for a few days. Ou puncturing the scrotum, some pus escaped from [what remained of the cavity of the sac. The Swelling and fever theu subsided, and the wound healed. The result, eventually, was satisfactory. Left hospital 23 days after the operation. v. Mahomedau male, cet. 50. Right reducible inguinal hernia of 15 months’ duration. Oper- ated on as in case i. Wound healed kindly. A ^mall collection of pus formed in the scrotum, iwhich had to be emptied. Discharged 47 days after operation with wound soundly healed, and mo sign of recurrence. vi. Pliudu male, cet. 44. Reducible right oblique inguinal hernia of two months’ duration nvith double hydrocele; latter tapped and in- jected. Hernia then operated ou in the usual rvay. Wound pursuedan aseptic course,andhealed y first intention. Discharged 42 days afterPRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 60 operation with a truss, which he was advised to wear for sometime, as a precaution. vii. Mahomedan male, cet. 30. Admitted with double oblique inguiual hernia of three years’ duration. The right hernia was irreducible, but was returned after appliction of ice. Four days after admission, both heruise were operated : on simultaneously in the usual manner. He did well until the fifth day, when the tempera- ture rose, and diffuse cellulitis of the left abdo- minal wall was discovered. The discharge from the side became putrid. A free incision was made to relieve tension, and evacuate pus. Symptoms of septicmmia increased, the left pleura filled, and he died of exhaustion, from blood-poisoning, eight days after operation. The left pleural cavity was found to be distended : with pus; and the lungs were studded with pymmic abscesses. viii. Hindu male, cet. 9. Congenital inguinal hernia of left side. Sac exposed and tied at neck; remainder separated from the cord as far : as the testicle, and removed ; a counter-opening made in the scrotum, and drainage tube insert- ' ed. Some suppuration took place, and the wound healed by granulation. Discharged 25 days after operation, apparently quite 11 cured. ix. Mahomedan male, cet. 45. Reducible left oblique inguinal hernia of three years’dura- tion. Had hydrocele on the same side. Scrotum i somewhat thickened. Usual operation perform- ed. Some suppuration occurred in the wound, and the scrotum swelled—with fever (elephan- tiasis). This subsided, aud he was dischargedPRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 61 47 days after operation, with the wound soundly [healed, and the hernia radically cured. x. Native Christian male, cet. 25. Con- genital hernia, right side. Sac exposed ; neck ttied, and reduced into canal. Remainder of sac dissected off and removed. Opening made in fundus of scrotum, and drainage tube inserted. Wound remained aseptic, and healed, without suppuration, in 13 days. Discharged 25 days after operation. xi. Hindu male, cet. 40. Reducible oblique right inguinal hernia of three years’ duration. Usual operation. Some bleeding took place after operation; and a thrombus formed iu the wound cavity, which suppurated freely. Repair took place by granulation. He was discharged 51 days after the operation with the canal well closed, and no sign of recurrence. The operation performed in these cases has been fully described in a clinical lecture which I published in this Journal (September 11882), and reproduced in my work on “ Opera- tive Surgery ” (page 202). The points which the additional experience of these cases has im- >ressed on me are: 1st. To transfix the neck of (the sac twice, at right angles, in tying it. This gives greater security to the ligature and renders fit unnecessary to tighten it so much ; 2nd. The great advantage of making an opening iu the fundus of the scrotum and inserting a drainage tube ; 3rd. In congenital cases, the advisability of cutting off the tunica close to the testis rather than tying it.; and 4th. The danger of |>erforming an operation on both sides at the Bame time iu double cases. The ouly fatal casePIIECIS OP OPERATIONS. 62 Ill 1' this series (vii) was a double one, anti though septic infection, resulting in pyaemia, may ■ occur in single operations, the chances of its t occurrence are greater in double operations, while the vital resistance is lowered by the shock of a more severe and prolonged procedure. In addition to these cases a radical operation was successfully performed for the cure of reduci- ble right inguinal hernia which was complicated by scrotal elephantiasis (see vi B. 1. xiii). Un- fortunately we have been unable to trace the subsequent history of any of these 12 persons ; but when they left hospital, the result seemed to be quite satisfactory, and none of them has since returned. They were each provided with a truss, and advised to wear it for at least a year. 5. Operation for the radical cure of ttmbilicul hernia. Mrs. M.,'European,otf.43. Five yearsago when stooping down to lift a child, she felt something give way at the navel, and a lump formed, which lias gradually increased in size. In August 1885. the swelling became tense and painful, and its contentscoulduot be reduced. They were return- ed after the employment of fomentations and purgatives. The tumour is very large, and fills whenever she stands up. The ring is very wide, admits three fingers, and is situated just above the umbilicus. The contents return into the abdominal cavity when she lies down, or with the aid of manipulation. On the 13th of February an operation was performed for the cure of the hernia. An incision was made in the middle line down to tiie sac which was carefully isolated and stitched at the neck by 4 or 5 catgut sutures.63 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. Two adherent omental processes had to be tied imd returned. Five strong double catgut sutures ivere placed in the edges of the tendinous ring, and ied firmly. The wound was then stitched with ron wire and horse-hair, two drainage tubes tvere inserted, and an antiseptic dressing applied. There was slight fever for a few days; and free suppuration took place in the wound cavity. The ower third of the wound healed by first inten- sion, and the vest by granulation. On the 13th if March, while the wound was undergoing satisfactory repair,she began to have fever, which gradually increased in severity. On the 26th if March, an abscess on the right broad ligament vas detected ; and on the 30th this was asperated, md 4 oz. of foetid pus removed. Re-accumulation ook place ; and, on the 1st of April, the abscess vas opened above the pubes, and a drainage tube nserted. It gradually closed. The fever subsided ifter the opening of the abscess. Her health improved rapidly ; and she left hospital on the 54th of April, quite cured of both hernia and ibscess. A letter received from her about a ^ear after her discharge reported that no return ►f the rupture had then taken place. *** The patient was a stout, unwieldy woman, with a very flabby abdomen ; and the suppuration »f the wound was caused by putrefaction which vas probably due to slipping of the dressings;— liese were not at first secured by elastic band- tges or strapping; the latter was subsequently ■mployed to retain them, with benefit. Whether he pel vie cellulitis was of septic origin, it. is Bifficult to say. No other suppuration took place; mid when the abscess-cavity was emptied audPRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 61 i. —Mahomedan, cet. 60. Hematocele of rigli drained, it healed up kindly. No symptom o peritonitis was observed throughout, and tin liual result of the operation was satisfactory i though considerable suffering aud prolougatioi of convalescence were caused by the putrefao tiou and suppuration of the wound. 6. Incisions for haimatocele. side of three months’ duration ; began with fever Tunica laid open; wound dressed for grauu lation. Healed in 35 days. ii. —Mahomedan, cet.. 50, Scrotum enlarged bj elephautiasis. Had a fall a fortnight ago, follow- ed by increased swelling and pain. Right tunics found distended with grumous blood. It wsu laid freely open. The cavity suppurated and granulated; and the wound healed in 40 days. iii. —Mahomedan, cet. 60. Has suffered from swollen scrotum for eight years. The swelling increased periodically with attacks of fever. Botl tunicas immensely,distended with coffee-coloures fluid ; skin of scrotum much thickened. Tin scrotal skin was removed by an oval incision The tunicae laid open, and emptied. They were both, much thickened and degenerated. Tin right contained 48 oz. and the left 32 oz. o luematocele fluid ; 146 oz. of similar materia had been removed, by tapping, on the previous dsiy. The tunica; were dissected off the cord, am removed; the testes trimmed and stitched in tin periuEeum, as in an operation for scrotal tumour and the remains of the scrotal skin drawn ovei them by continuous catgut suture. On tin 4th day the wound was found to be putrid am sloughy. Dysentery set in on the third day, am it65 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. broncho-pneumonia on the 7th. Patient died of exhaustion 10 days after the operation. iv. Mahoinedau, at. 40. Has suffered from hydrocele of right tunica for 24 years. Had a strong attack of fever five months ago, followed by increase of swelling and great pain, which have continued up to the present. The tunica was laid open, and about a pint of coffee-colour- ed fluid removed. The cavity was washed out, and dressed for granulation. He was discharged, well, 61 days after the operation. Htematocele in old subjects is generally a sequel of hydrocele. The tunica undergoes (Treat thickening and degeneration. A slight }n o o o injury is then sufficient to cause bleeding into its cavity. This may also occur spontaneously from degenerative erosion. Patches of abra- sion are seen in these cases on the interior of the tunica, and it is from these, apparently, that the bleeding takes place. The treatment by free incision is the most ef- fective and speedy. I have tried a small opening and drainage. If putrefaction takes place in the cavity—and this is a probable contingency—the result may be dangerous or fatal. Even if the cavity remains aseptic, the process of repair is very slow. With free incision and complete evacuation, it is easier to avoid putrefaction, and repair is much more rapid. 7. Incision for bubo with removul of inguinal glands. i. East Indian, male, cet. 18. Acute bubo of 10 days’ duration following chancroid. A free iincision was made, and some enlarged, softened, aud partially isolated glauds were removed by EPRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 66 enucleation by finger. The wound was dressei antiseptieally, and healed soundly in 37 days. ii. Hindoo male, ciet. 29. Double bubo of 2( days’ duration following chancroid. Right lai< open 20 days ago, and still discharging; gland much enlarged. A free incision was made ; tin glands of left side removed by finger ; and th remains of those of right scraped out by Yolk malm’s spoon. Eighty-one days after operation sinuses still remaining, these were enlarged, am three diseased glands removed from right, au< one from left side. The wound now granulated and healed in 54 days. iii. East Indian male, cet. 24. Had under gone operation for right bubo with extirpatioi of glands five months ago. Suppuration tool place subsequently on left side, which was in cised without removal of glands. Sinuses hav recently formed in both cicatrices; and they ar found to lead down to indurated and enlarge* glands. The sinuses were laid open, and th glands removed. The resulting wounds healet by granulation in 50 days. iv. East Indian male, cet. 40. Enlarged in guinal glands of both sides following chancroid Limited fluctuation on the surface. Incision were made, and the enlarged glands removed They were found to be undergoing caseatioi Left hospital, quite recovered, in 53 days. *#* The removal of partially disorganise glands in acute bubogreatly accelerates recover] In chronic bubo the glands are apt either t undergo caseation of centre or fibroid thicket ing of capsule or both; and, in either case, me sion alone is sure to result in obstinate sinus. I67 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. very virulent bubos complete destruction by suppuration saves the trouble of enucleation. In the milder forms of perilyinphadenitis, when the gland is simply hyperplasic, incision is suffi- cient ; but, between these two extremes, a more satisfactory result is obtained by extirpating the diseased gland or glands, than by incising only. 8. Perinatal section. i. Mahomedan, cet. 40. Admitted with re- tention of urine. Penis and scrotum oedematous. Urine dribbling. History of gonorrhoea and stricture. Some offensive urine was removed by a No. 8 catheter. The perinseum was opened; and the urethra divided up to the prostate. The bladder was then emptied by a No. 12 catheter. A free incision was made into the scrotum, in i the middle line. A large cavity was found con- taining foetid urine and pus. This was also entered from the peringeum and a drainage tube passed from one opening to the other. Syme’s S-shaped catheter was tied in. Some bleeding i took place after the operation requiring the use : of a petticoat. The scrotal swelling subsided, and cavity gradually healed. Urine began to flow per urethram after 15 days. A full-sized bougie (Lister’s) was passed into the bladder at intervals of three days. He was improving rapidly, when he absconded, 43 days after the operation. ii. Hindu, cet. 28. Admitted with retention of uriue; bladder distended. Perinamm, scrotum, i^nd lower part of abdomen swollen and oedema- tous. History of stricture for six or seven years. Some urine had been removed by a No. 6 ca- theter, and some small punctures made in the68 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. scrotum. The peril)seum was freely laid opei aud the membranous urethra fully divided ; large quantity of ammoniacal urine was thu removed. A free incision was made into th swolleu penis. Urine continued to pass thro tigs the perinaeal wound, and extensive sloughing c the penis and scrotum took place ;—the forme was almost amputated by the gangrene. A attempt was made to suture the corpora cavei nosa, but failed ; and it was, finally, thought be to remove the organ. The ulcers left by tli sloughing cicatrised. The peri nasal orifice wj kept open bv occasional passage of a cathete and micturition was performed through it. P; tient had control over the sphincter vesicae. JH remaiued in hospital 52 days. iii. Hindu, cet. 38. Admitted with retentk of urine, and painful swelling of perinamm. G> norrhoea 12 years ago; stricture for four yean and retention for 12 days. The perimeal absce was laid open; the membranous urethra dividee and a No. 12 catheter passed into the bladd per uretliram. He began to make water tlirouc the penis 15 days after operation, aud left ho pital 57 days after the operation, with t) perinaeal wound closed aud a fully dilatr urethra. A No. 12 catheter was introduce into the bladder every third day during his st; in hospital. iv. Hindu, cet. 30. Sustained ruptui of urethra by a fall on the perinaeum. Bladd distended ; perinaeum swollen. A No. 8 cathet passed. Perinaeuna divided, aud urethra s open up to prostate. A No. 12 catheter passe Wound closed in 35 days. A No. 12 cathetPRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 69 , passed into the bladder every fourth day. Able r, to pass water freely in full stream. v. Hindu, cot. 40. Retention of 24 hours’ . duration. History of stricture. Perinaeal sec- tion had been performed two years ago. Stream j lias gradually become narrowed. Bladder reliev- ■ ed by tapping before admission. A No. 2 ca- i tlieter was passed with difficulty, and the peri- i utetim and urethra were divided on it. The { stricture was also divided, and a No. 12 catheter ((passed by the urethra. Left hospital 40 days nafter the operation, with the perinaeal wound pclosed, and able to make water in full stream. A •INo. 12 catheter had been passed every fourth day. ! vi. Eurasian, cmt. 28. Perinaeal abscess and Ifistula consequent on gonorrhoea and stricture. iPerinaenm laid open and stricture divided on a >|grooved staff. No. 12 catheter introduced. Both ^sinuses and perinaeal wound closed within 68 [Mays. A full-sized catheter was passed every jlfourth day. t vii. Mahomedan, at. 35. Urinary fistula fund stricture. Had gonorrhoea 20 years ago, nand perinaeal abscess 12 years ago. Perinaeum lincised, and stricture divided on a grooved staff. J Absconded a month after operation, before the itcure was completed. The urethra admitted j a No. 10 catheter. viii. Hindu, cet. 35. Six fistulas in the peri- tonaeum and scrotum, also fistula in uno. History rot gonorrhoea, abscesses, and fistula ranging over 822 years. A No. 2 catheter introduced, and J external urethrotomy performed. No. 12 cathe- fter passed per urethram ; anal fistula divided, i Leinained iu hospital 18 days. The anal fistula70 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS, Ava3 cured, and all the urinary fistulas closed The wound had not healed ; and half of the urin passed through it. The urethra admitted a No. 1: easily, which was passed every fourth day. ix. Hindu, cet. 40. Had an attack of gonor rhcea 20 days ago, followed by hasmaturia in fiv days. Urine began to issue per anum in tlire i days; and on the day preceding admission a opening formed in the perinasum, also discharge; ing urine. There is a large gluteal abscess o the right side. The perinaeuin was laid freel. (> open ; a stricture was divided, and a No. catheter passed into the bladder. The glutet:; abscess was also opened. He was very low an continued so for three days. Temperature sut i normal. Then, slight reaction took place ; but was followed by prostration, and he was remover, in a moribund state, six days after the operation! x. Hindu, cet. 70. Ten urinary fistulge i perimeum and scrotum. Had gonorrhoea fiv years ago, followed by abscess. Urethra admi a No. 12. Perina3al section performed on a guide! A full-sized catheter was passed every fourt day. Left hospital 70 days after operation passing water in full stream, and with tl: perimeal wound closed. xi. East Indian, cet. 28. Admitted wit recent fistula on left of perina3um, followin gonorrhoea and stricture. Urethra admitted | No. 12. An attempt was made to close tl fistula by laying it open, and passing a ful sized instrument every third day. After pers< vering with this treatment for 45 days, tl peringeum was freely laid open and the men: t brauous urethra divided. The fistula healedPRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 71 I but the perinaeal wound remained slightly open after 65 days. His health being bad, also the fistula threatening to reopen, he was advised to take a change of air, which resulted in closure of the perinaeal wound. He has a full-sized sound passed occasionally. xii. Hindu, cat. 40. Suffered from gonorrhoea 24 years ago, followed by stricture. A second attack three years ago was succeeded by abscess- es of scrotum and perinaeum and fistulas. There are now four of these, and the urethra is much narrowed hy a succession of tight strictures. The perinaeum was laid open, and the strictures divided. A No. 12 was passed into the bladder. He was doing well until eight days after the t operation, when fever and swelling of the scrotum j occurred. This was followed by left pleurisy, i and erysipelas of the groins and flanks. He t was removed in a low condition 55 days after t the operation. Cock’s operation.—i. Hindu, cat. 30. Admit- ; ted with large double hydroceles and general i anasarca. The hydroceles were incised and I drained, and, while in satisfactory process of ) cure, 26 days after the operation, symptoms of t extravasation of urine presented themselves; — l swollen, boggy perinaeum, cedematous scrotum, [ and tender swelling above the pubes. There l was a stricture near the meatus which was I divided, and the perinaeum was laid freely open, ■ the floor of the urethra incised, the bladder i emptied, and a No. 12 catheter passed. Urine escaped freely through the wound, and the patient seemed to do well for three days, when the supra pubic swelling became boggy. It was72 PEECIS OF OPEEATIONS. freely incised in the middle line, and a drainage tube passed through the wound, beneath the pubi arch, to the perinaeal wound. The symptoms ( septicaemia became more severe ; and this diseas proved fatal five days after the operation. ii. Hindu, cct. 33.—Has suffered from stric ture for eight years, and from retention for thre days. Instruments have been used forcibly and the urethra is badly lacerated ; the bladder i greatly distended. A catheter can be passed; bit nothing issues through it, except, a small quan tily of sanious fluid. The perinasum was divided and the urethra incised in front of the prostate The bladder was found to be full of clots, which were removed by a lithotomy scoop and injec tion. A stricture of the penile urethra wa divided, and a No. 12 passed from behind forwards After a week a full-sized instrument was intro duced into the bladder per uretliram and thi was repeated every fourth day. He left hospita 31 days after the operation with the perinaea wound closed, and able to make water in ful stream. iii. Hindu, cet. 30. Stricture and perinsea I abscess. Gonorrhoea six months ago. Absces.-j opened, and stricture divided. A No. 12 passer per urethrmn. Secondary haemorrhage took plac on the 5th and 7th days, and was stopped bj ligature and pressure. A full-sized catheter| was introduced 25 days after the operation, auc every fourth day thereafter. He left hospital 87 days after operation, witl the perinaeal wound still unclosed, but passing about three-fourths of his urine through the penis in good stream.PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 73 f iv. Mahomedan, cet. 55. Retention for 48 |- liours. History of gonorrhoea and stricture. *; The bladder had been tapped per rectum, and the p canula retained. Perinseuin and scrotum much swollen. Patient very low. Perinacum laid open, t. mid urethra incised in front of the prostate by f Cock’s method. .Syme’s catheter tied in. Inci- L sions were also made on the swollen penis and It scrotum. Patient died of septicoemia four days s after operation. [ v. Hindu, cet. 50. Gonorrhoea ten years ago U|followed by a succession of fistulas, which are psituated on the perinseuin, scrotum, and penis, ) and through which urine is passed with great diffi- f culty. No instrument could be passed into the p bladder. The perinaeum was divided and the, fj strictured urethra laid open. A No. 12 catheter t introduced. This was repeated every fourth day. Patient left hospital 57 days after oper- i ation before the cure was completed. vi. Mahomedan, cet. 35. Fell on the peri- i: nasum six days ago. Has not been able to make , water since then. Passed some blood after the I accident. Perinseuin swollen and bo^gy. Cathe- i terism tried to no purpose. Bladder distended to umbilicus. Cock’s operation performed ; 6 ' pintsand2 oz. of bloody urine withdrawn. Con- siderable deep bleeding which was stopped by plugging. He got a violent attack of dysentery i next day, which proved fatal in twelve days. | Pysemic abscesses were found in the liver. *#* The causes for which these 18 operations of perimeal section were performed were various. Two were rendered necessary by rupture of the urethra—one recent, and one of six days’ stand-74 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. ing ; the recent case did well; the other got py aemiaand died. Two were cases of external uthe thotomy for strictures with retention. In on of these the urethra had been badly lacerated by violent catheterism, and the bladder wa distended with clots. These cases are not un common ; and it is often impossible to introduce an instrument into the bladder. If the reten- tion is urgent, Cock’s operation is the best anc safest course in sucli cases ; the stricture beinc sought for and divided at the same time tha the bladder is opened by incising the prostath urethra. Both these cases did well. In thre< cases perinseal abscess was associated wit! stricture and retention ; and by the sanu operation the abscess was evacuated, the blad- der emptied, and the stricture divided. Sii were cases of urinary fistula. Owing to neglec these cases are often of a severe and intractabh nature. If perinaeal section does not confer com plete cure in such cases, it gives great relie by exchanging one direct and central opening for several tortuous ones, and the swelling sur- rounding the latter also disappears. By the persevering use of instruments a perfect cun can be obtained in such cases if the loss o substance in the perinaeum has not been great Five were cases of extravasation of urine. Two of these did well, two died, and one was removec moribund. The importance of passing full-sized instru ments frequently in such cases need hardlj be pointed out. In all cases of stricture oc casional instrumentation is advisable ; hov much more so when the urethra is divided b}75 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. jloperation or damaged by injury or disease. Unfortunately in hospital practice it is very diffi- . cult to persuade patients to undergo this very ■ necessary part of the treatment. 9. Incision for anal ulcer. Eurasian female, cet. 22. A large ulcer of rectum of eight months’ duration; constantly passing blood and mucus, with pain and straining. Sphincter and floor of ulcer divided, and wound dressed with iodoform nud boracic ointment. The ulcer healed by granulation : and sbe left hospital in 56 days with the parts almost healed, and quite relieved of her former sufferings. 10. Tenotomy for talipes varus. i. Mahomedan male, cet. 3. Talipes varus of right foot, and enlarged bursa over outer ankle. The temlo achillis and the tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum divided and the bursa dissected out. Removed 17 days after operation with the foot greatly improved. ii. European child, cet. 12 mouths. Right talipes equino-varus. Had been operated on shortly after birth, but the deformity persisted. The tendons of the tibiales and flexor longus digitorum and the tendo achillis were divided, and, under greater care in after-treatment, a better result was obtained. iii. A precisely similar case. iv. European child, 2 months old, with I double talipes varus. The tendons were divided, and under careful after-treatment the defor- mity was thoroughly corrected. *** The three last cases were not detained in hospital; in two of them the tendons had been previously cut, but the necessary after-treatmentPRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 76 neglected. To ensure thorough section, tin tendous were exposed by a small longitudi- nal incision, raised by a strabismus hook, am divided. C ase iv was a complete success owiiu to the intelligent aid of the parents. 11. Large abscesses. a. Axillary abscess.—Hindu, cet. 14. 15 days duration, opened and drained antiseptically healing delayed by an enlarged gland. Dis- charged- quite recovered in 69 days. b. Hepatic abscess. — Hindu male, cet. 42. Had fever one year ago, followed by enlargement of the liver. Fever subsided in three months, leaving the liver enlarged. A relapse of the fever occurred seven months ago, attended witli a hard swelliug in the right hypochondrium. Fever left after a mouth ; but the swelling re- mained, and during the last four months has been increasing in size. It is situated over the epigastric and right hypochondriac regions, is dull on percussion and fluctuates. The right lobe of the liver is of normal dimensions. An incision was made on the 2nd of December 1886 under antiseptic precautions at the most pro- minent part of the tumour, and 3 oz. of reddish- brown pus removed, a sinus was found leading deeply into the left lobe of the liver. A drainage tube was inserted. The swelling subsided, nc lever ensued, and the discharge continued tc flow through the tube in considerable quanti- ties. It remained sweet. The tube was removed on 18th December. On 17th January the sinus being contracted, but patent and still discharg- ing, it was enlarged, and the tube reintroduced, On the 19th of February discharge continuing :PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 77 chloroform was administered, and the sinus laid freely open. He remained in hospital till the 14th" of May. The orifice had again under- gone contraction, and a small amount of dis- charge continued to issue from it. He was free of all uneasiness, his general health was good, and, tiring of treatment, he insisted on leaving the hospitah c. Iliac abscess.—i. A Hindu, at. 16. Pytemic abscess of left side in a case of resection of elbow joint for compound fracture (vide III. 3. a.) opened and drained. Patient died of pyaemia. ii. Mahomedan male, cet. 30. Left iliac abscess of one month’s duration, opened by Hilton’s method below Poupart’s ligament and drained. Healed in 28 days. iii. Hindu, cet. 11. An iliac abscess had been opened ten days ago on right side above Poupart’s ligament.. This was being imperfectly : drained. Another iliac abscess existed on left side. Getting high fever and suffering from dysentery. Both abscesses laid open below Poupart’s ligament. Discharged well in 31 i days. iv. Eurasian child, cat. 4. Right iliac abscess opened beneath Poupart’s ligament. Removed convalescent five days afterwards. v. Hindu, cet. 5. Left iliac abscess of 5 days’ duration, result of a fall, opened antisep- tically below Poupart’s ligament, healed in 16 days. vi. Mahomedan male, cet. 16. Abscess of right iliac fossa and right thigh (periosteal) the result of fever. Both opened on the same day by Hilton’s method under antiseptic pre-78 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. cautions. The iliac abscess healed in 10, and th I thigh abscess in 28 days. *** The advantages of opening these abs j cesses below Poupart’s ligaments are : (1) that th abdominal wall is not weakened ; and (2) tha drainage is more thorough, and repair mor: rapid. The spot at which the opening is mad is half-way between the artery and the auterio superior spinous process of the ileum. Tin skin, superficial and deep fascia are divided b; a short longitudinal (vertical) incision. A. director finds its way very easily along th under surface of the iliac fascia. The opening is enlarged by a forceps and a good-sized drain age tube inserted. Repair takes place iu 10 t< 15 days. c. Pelvic abscess.—This case has been al ready described under the head of radical cur of umbilical hernia (IX 5). The collectioi was situated in the right broad ligament o the uterus, and was evacuated by aspiration ii the first instance, and then by incision above tin pubes and drainage. d. Gluteal abscess.—i. East Indian child cet. 4. Deep abscess of right gluteal region of 1( days’duration, opened autiseptically by Hilton’, plan. Healed iu 12 days. ii. European male, azt. 30. Five weeks ago In jumped into water. This was followed by feve and paiu over left buttock, which became pro 1 miueut a few days ago. A large and deep abs- cess was opened, and a portion of the ileum win found to be bare. A sinus resulted opposite the barebone which continued to discharge after the abscess cavity had filled up. He was ad'79 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. vised to return to Scotland, and left hospital 63 days after the operation. e. Thigh abscesses.—i. East Indian child, cet. 9. Sustained a fall nine days ago, resulting in painful swelling of left thigh. An abscess was detected beneath the quadriceps muscle, aud was (opened autiseptically by Hilton’s plan. It healed completely in 19 days. ii. Hindu male, cet. 20. Admitted for acute isynovitis of right knee-joint. A large collec- Ition of pus was detected in the lower part of the thigh 13 days after admission. It was open- ed antiseptically, and healed in two mouths. The joint underwent simultaneous recovery. iii, iv. There were two cases of children (admitted with sinus of the leg leading to hare- bone, abscess of the thigh and diseased knee-join the abscess was opened and sinus drained. One ichild was removed before recovery was complete, the other got fever of a hectic type, and died of convulsions. v. Hindu, cet. 25. Large and deep abscess of thigh of 15 days’ duration, resulting from fever, opened antiseptically ; healed in 19 days. %* These abscesses were opened and subse- quently dressed, under irrigation, by bichloride lotion. In no case did putrefaction occur. Seve- ral of the cases illustrate the advantage of opening periosteal abscesses early ; and a few of them indicate the trouble which is apt to arise if this is uot done ;—the periosteum is destroyed, osteitis ensues, and necrosis varying iu depth according to the severity and extent of the osteitis is the consequence. This is often asso- ciated with sclerosis or the latter occurs alone.80 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. In either case a very protracted and intractab sinus results. X. Reparative Operations. 1. Operation for harelip.—Eurasian chil aged 4 months. A very feeble, thin child, wit cleft palate, and single complete harelip. T1 edges were pared, adhesions separated, t! wound carefully stitched with horse-hair, and button stitch of relaxation applied at some di tance from the edges. The wound suppurat- freely, the stitches cut and dragged, and unir did not take place. A second operation was pos ported until the child was older and in bett. health. 2. Operation for cleft palate.—A Europ an child, cet. 2\ years. Fissure of the soft palat The edges were pared, the palatine musch divided, and the wound united by silver wir A small part of the wound gaped, and a secot operation was required to close the aperture. 3. Operation for vesico-vaginal fistula.- i. Hindu female, ait. 35. A lai ge fistula caus- by sloughing of anterior wall of vagina due tedious labour. Urethral orifice contracted! bladder prolapsed through the fistula. T1 urethra was dilated sufficiently to admit the for finger.The os uteri was drawn down by vulst lum. A flap was dissected off the anterior lip the os and stitched to the lower edge of the gaj a drainage tube was inserted per urethram ai secured in situ by horsehair stitches. The ape I tuve was partially closed by these means, second operation reduced its size still furthe Patient became impatient of treatment, aiPRECIS OE OPERATIONS. 81 j left hospital in two months, before the cure was : complete. The central portion of the gap had , been bridged, but two holes remained—one on each side. The prolapsus of the bladder was I, remedied. ii. Mahomedan female, cut. 35. A very ag- i gravated case caused by tedious labour about a i year ago. It was operated on in the same way. i Partial closure was obtained ; but the patient . would not submit to a second operation. She was i transferred to the Eden Hospital thirty-four j days after operation. t 4. Operation for penile fistula,—Mahome- t dan, cet. 45. The fistula resulted from the dis- charge through au ulcerated aperture on the i dorsum of the penis of a urethral calculus two | months ago. The urethral orifice underwent l contraction at the same time, and the fistula t has recently been contracting, giving rise to dif- j ficulty and distress in urinating; the glans penis : had been destroyed by the ulceration. The i corpus spongiosum was laid open above the in- i durated tissues and its edges pared and stitch- ( ed to the skin. The orifice was kept patent . during the process of healing by passing a No. 12 i catheter occasionally. He left hospital with a ; good meatus 14 days after the operation. Ii . 5. Operations for cicatrix after burn.— d i. Hindu male, cut. 23, admitted 3rd December j 1885. Had sustained a severe burn of left arm j 6 months previously, causing the formation of i cicatricial webs in front of the wrist, elbow and | shoulder-joints. The webs in front of the wrist and elbow were divided on the 5th of December, j and flaps of skin transplanted from the back of F82 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. the hand and forearm to fill the gaps. The resulifl was good. He underwent a second operation o the 11th of January for the web stretching be tween the arm and chest wall. This was divide freely, and a flap was takeu from behind th axilla, pulled forward and stitched in front This prevented re-formation of the web, and h left hospital in twenty-one days with good us of his left arm. ii. Hindu boy, cet. 10. Got his right arm an chest severely burnt 1J years ago, and there i cicatricial adhesion between the arm and th; forearm down to its lower third to the side c the chest. The right half of the chest auteriorl is covered with a thick cicatricial breastplate An operation was performed for liberating till arm and forearm in June 1885 : but duriu the process of repair, the parts were pullei together again, and the deformity and disabilit reproduced. The preseut operation was ver thorough—including complete division of th cicatrix and dissecting off of its harder an thicker parts. Flaps were moved forward froi the extensor aspect of the arm and forearm, am from the posterior aspect of the chest wall t provide a cutaneous covering for the flexor aspei of the joints. Repair took place kindly. Th forearm was liberated and the use of the elbo largely restored ; but the arm still remaine bound to the side of the chest. He was detaine in hospital 110 days. He has been re-admitte this year, and has undergone two further ope; atious. iii. Hindu male, cet. 21. Sustained a sevei burn of right arm 17 years ago. There are twPRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 83 cicatricial webs — one stretching between the arm and chest, and the other between the arm and forearm ; the webs were divided and flaps transplanted from the extensor to cover the flexor aspects of the joint. The case did well, and patient left hospital 93 days after operation with a useful limb. Cases of cicatricial contraction after burn are very common in Calcutta. They usually present a tight web stretching across the flexor i aspect of one or more joints and holding these in a position of acute flexion, thus seriously im- j pairing the use of the extremity. The principles of treatment employed in these cases are: ls£. To divide the cicatricial tissue thorough- ly and transversely; avoiding, of course, by ; careful dissection, division of important struc- I tures. j 2nd. To dissect off any hard keloid cicatrix, ■ which is likely to impede repair, i 3i'd. To convert the transverse wound into a l longitudinal wound. i 4th. To dissect off flaps from the sides and i back of the limb to enable the edges of the ) longitudinal wound to come together and provide t a covering of skin on the flexor aspect of the ) joint. » 5th. During the process of repair, to complete I extension and maintain the movement of the joint. If 6. Operation for cicatrix after abscess.— i Hindu male, act. 20. Had a popliteal abscess ijl 9 months ago, followed Gy a sinuous ulcer, which resulted in a hard thick cicatricial mass holding I the knee-joint flexed at an angle of about 60°. if The cicatrix was dissected off, the hamstringPRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 84 tendons divided, and flaps brought from the side of the knee to meet behind the joint, which wa stretched to an angle of about 120°. The lim was placed on a McIntyre splint. The woundremained aseptic,and healed kindjh The leg was straightened by meaus of tli splint, and he left hospital in 65 days with straight useful limb which he could flex to a; angle of 90°. 7. Operation for hernia testes.—Hindu, cp, 25. The extrusion of the testicle was due tj spontaneous rupture of a luematocele with slough iug of the scrotal integument. Syme’s opei’ ation was performed, the testicle being dissecte from its cicatricial adhesions, and the skin draw over it and stitched. A good result was ot tained in 32 days. XI. Operations not classed. 1. Operation for imperforate anus.— j. male child three days’ old. Abdomen greatl distended. An incision had been made in the sit; of the anus without success. A small trocha was passed in the direction of the rectum, air meconium issued through the canula. A fre incision was made backwards on this as a guid( the orifice was dilated with the finger. Mi conium passed freely. Finally, the edges ( the bowel were drawn down and stitched to tli t skin. The patient was taken home and m i heard of afterwards. 2. Nerve splitting.— A Hindu, cat. 2< ! Suffered from syphilis 12 years ago. Got severe injury of the dorsum of the right haui ; two years ago, followed by inflammatory swel 'J85 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. i ing and gradual loss of sensation over the inner side of the hand. The ulnar nerve is indurated and thickened I above the elbow. The musculo spiral nerve i is also felt to be thickened as it winds round i the humerus. There is loss of sensation over i the little and ring; fingers as well as over the ; palm and dorsum of the ulnar side of the hand. Complains of tingling over the inner side of the forearm. There is no eruption or ulcer. There is considerable atrophy of the muscles of < the forearm, also of those of the little finger. •' The little finger is rigidly flexed, and the ring 1 finger partially so. ( The ulnar nerve was exposed to the extent of four inches above the elbow. The coat of it was found to be congested and sclerosed. It was carefully split in the direction of its long axis to the full extent of the wound. The edges of the split gaped. It was also stretched. The wound was stitched with horse-hair, \ and dressed autiseptically. It healed by first i intention. Patient remained iu hospital 17 1 days. The tingling disappeared, sensation was ! restored in some measure, and the ring and little i fiugers became more flexible. Aiuesthesia of ! these fingers still remained. General Remarks. 1. Mortality.—The causes of death in cases which ended fatally have already been ex- plained, It will be interesting and useful to consider here the death causes generally. The mortality-rate (26 in 183) amounts to 14’2 per cent, of cases treated to the end. This figurePBECIS OP OPERATIONS. 86 corresponds very closely to the rate (14-7' which prevailed among the operations included in my work on “ Operative Surgery.” The rate would be somewhat raised if I in eluded four cases which were removed in i hopeless state. So much depends upon tin i class of cases included in such a series as tin i present that a general mortality - rate is a verj uncertain index of surgical success. As, how- ever, scrupulous care was taken to include it this series the same kind of operations as . published in the work referred to, the rates an fairly comparable,and their close correspondeuct I is remarkable. I would impose upon the figure: no heavier burden than to indicate that tin success obtained in 1886 was not worse thai in 1879-83. The enhancement of the rate by including moribuiuls would be balanced b} counting separately two or more operations oi | the same subject which has not been done. 2. Death causes. These may be shown as follows :— Shock ... ... ... 3 Exhaustion ... ... 9 Septicaemia ... ... 4 Pyaemia ... ... ... 2 Tetanus ... ... ... 3 Convulsions ... ... 1 Diphtheria ... ... 2 Pneumonia ... ... 1 Dysentery ... ... 1 26 Shock.—Previous ill health, loss of blood, ant a severe operation combined iu these cases tt cause death iu a short time.87 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. Exhaustion.—This term included a great variety of fatal conditions, tending or combining I to cause death. In four cases it indicates the sapping of life caused by recurrence of malig- nant disease; in one the termination of hectic; in one the. effect of sloughing sorethroat, re- lieved, but not cured, by tracheotomy ; in oue asthenia from tramuatic delirium in a subject debilitated by debauchery, drugs and fever; in lone poisoning by cholaemia ; and in one sinking from a serious operation for severe cancer. Septicaemia.—Two of the deaths caused by septic poisoning were cases of extravasation of urine, in which the condition was fully estab- lished before operation was resorted to. In another case a deep aud extensive wound for removal of cancer underwent putrefaction ; and in another of bad smash of the leg septicaemia lexisted before admission, and before amputation was resorted to. Pi/cemia.—In one case the disease existed on admission; in another (double operation for radical cure of hernia) sloughing cellulitis un- doubtedly originated in the hospital. Thus, of the total number of six deaths due to septic poisoning per se,ouly two can be attributed to causes developed during residence iu the hos- pital. Tetanus.—'Two of the cases of tetanus were consequent on operation for strangulated hernia, and the third ou amputation of the leg for gangrene. The remaining causes do not suggest general remarks. 3. Antiseptics have been sedulously used in all cases. The spray has been entirely discarded,88 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. and irrigation with bichloride of mercury lotio (1 in 2,000) used instead. Bichloride gauze h: also been employed in place of carbolic gau2 with satisfactory result. The plan of dressin followed was that which I described last "year i a paper on “ Cheap Antiseptics ” read before tl Calcutta Medical Society. I have every reaso to be satisfied with it. A few failures occurred but these must be looked for iu the circun stances under any system of antiseptic mauagi ment.PRECIS OF OPERATIONS PERFORMED IN THE WARDS OF THE FIRST SURGEON, MEDICAL COLLEGE HOSPITAL, During the year 1887. By Surgeon-Major K. McLEOD, A.M., M.D., F.R.C.S.E,, Professor of Surgery, Calcutta Medical College. The following table and notes are framed on Ithe same principles and plan as similar state- ments for previous j ears which have appeared in this journal. I shall, therefore, place the data Ion record without preface. I have much plea- sure in acknowledging the willing and intelli- gent assistance I have obtained from Assistant- Surgeon Khagendra Nath Sen, M. B., in writing up the bedhead-tickets and preparing (these abstracts. This is the seventh article of Ithe present series : — Table of Operations performed during 1887. Description of Operation. No. Died. i L—Operations on the Eye and its Ap- pendages. 1. Excision of an eye-ball for rupture... 1 0 II.—Operations on Veins. 1. Ligature of the axillary vein for secondary lnemorrhage 1 0 2. For Varicocele ... 1 0 Total 2 0 A( i „ a Elbow i 2 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 9 ( joint No. Total „ b Knee Description of Operation. i ( Total Total 18 , 6 >0 CO l’’ OO 05 ' Died \ III.—Operations on Joints. 1. Reduction of dislocation of shoulder- 2. Extension of stiff joints— 3. Excision of joints— „ a Elbow 2 ( „ b Knee 1 l „ c Calcaneo-cuboid 1 l 4. Erasion of tarsus 2 ( ( , IY.—Operations on Bones. 1. Partial excision for necrosis (seques- trotomy) 17 1 I 2. Refracture of femur 1 1 Y.—Amputati ons.—A. —For injury. 1. Primary of the arm 2 2. „ of the thigh ... ^ 1 3. „ of the metacarpals 1 4. Secondary of the arm for spreading traumatic gangrene ... 1 5. Secondary of the leg for gangrene... 1 B.—For disease. 6. Of the thigh for sarcoma . Y 1 7. Of the leg for epithelioma 2 8. „ for diseased ankle 2 9. Above the ankle (Syme’s) for dis- eased ankle-joint 3 10. Of .the metatarsals for necrosis ... 1 Total . 9 Grand total of amputations 15Total 3. Sarcoma of axilla PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. Description of Operation. Grand total of tumours Total ^ CO to •tTI.—Eemoval of Tumours (by excision). A. —MaMgnan t. 1. Eemoval of Cancerous glands (recurrent) ... 2. 5) b of tongue... c of lower jaw )) d of chestwall )> e of scrotum J) / of penis and turn ... )) g of rectum scro- B.—Non- Malignant 1. Elephantiasis a of scrotum ,, b of labia 2. Ostreo-cystoma of lower jaw 3. Diseased Cervical glands 4. Diseased inguinal glands 5. Papilloma of leg and foot 6. Keloid of chestwall 7. Condyloma of rectum 8. Hiem orrlioid s VII.—Eemoval of Calculi. 1. Prostatic by incision . Vesical by suprapubic lithotomy • „ by litholapaxy ... „ by lateral lithotomy Total4 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 6U5WW'1 74} tdi 09 ft.. f" SB V‘ u Am** *WT5 Description of Operation. No. Die C VIII.—Incisions. 1. %■ Tracheotomy Strangulated hernia (with opening 1 fi\ sac) Strangulated hernia (without open- 2 / 4. ing sac) 1 Radical cure of hernia ... 9 5. For hsemotocele 2 6. Perinseal section a with guide 4 „ b without guide CO.1 A (Cock’s) 11 7- ^Lumber colotomy 1 8: For clubfoot 1 9. For stricture of rectum ... 1 10. For large abscesses 10 Total 43 IX.—Reparative Operations. 1. For cicatrix after burn ... 4 2. For webbed fingers 2 3. Rhinoplasty 1 Total 7 X.—Operations not classed. 1. For imperforate anus 1 3. Nerve-splitting and stretching 1 Total 2 Grand Total 151 I. 1. Excision of the eye-hall for rupture Hindu male, ait. 24. Left globe ruptu by a blow ; iris and lens protruding tliroi a wound of the cornea; vision lost; gl removed by curved scissors; cavity healed5 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. granulation in 37 days. Sight of light eye unimpaired. II. 1. Ligature of right axillary vein for jsecondary hcemorrhaye.—Hindu male, cet. 35. An abscess of the right axilla was opened 20 Aiiys prior to admission. T11e cavity putrefied mud walls sloughed. Admitted with septic fever and secondary haemorrhage. The orifice was (enlarged and cavity plugged, but bleeding recurred on the 4th and 5th days. The cavity was now thoroughly laid open, and venous bleeding was found to proceed from the axillary 'vein, which was ligatured above and below the bleeding point, a small artery was tied, and a diseased gland removed. No further bleeding occurred. The cavity became clean and healed up by granulation. The fever subsided and he left hospital in 54 days, quite recovered. 2. Operation for varicocele.—East Indian male, cet. 27. A delicate young man subject to constipation, and obliged to stand at his work all day. Has a large double varicocele, which has grown bigger and more painful during the last 3 mouths. He cannot stand or walk without discomfort. The left side is worse than the right. Chloroform was adminis- tered, and an incision about 3 inches Ions: was made over the left cord. The coverings of the # O cord were divided, and the varicose mass sepa- rated from the vas defereus and spermatic artery. It was ligatured with catgut at the external ring and just above the testicle, and the interven- ing portion removed; wound dressed antisepti- cally. It remained aseptic and healed in 28 I' days. The result appeared to be satisfactory.PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 6 III. Operations on Joints. 1. Reduction of dislocation of shoulder.- Hindu female, out. 40. Right joint dislocate by a fall. Reduced by the heel in the axilla. 2a. Flexion of stiff elbow-joint. — Hind female, cet. 20. Had an abscess of the job three months ago. Stiffened in a straight positioi Partial dislocation backwards. Joint fbrcihl flexed under chloroform and placed on an at | gular splint. Left hospital after a month wit t a more useful limb. 6. Extension of stiff knee-joint. — Hind i male, cet. 45. Had gonorrhoeal arthritis of hot knee-joints two years ago. They have beconc. fixed at an angle of 45°. Slight movement i e right ; left fixed. The right joint was fore bly straightened under chloroform on three occil sions. Left hospital after 118 days ; able to wal I with crutches; would not have the left joii resected. 3a. Excision of the elbow-joint.—i. Hind < male, cet. 18. Sustained an injury of the rigli elbow-joint six months ago by a fall which r< suited in anchylosis and fixture at an ang.j „ of 120°; the joint was resected through a straigl l posterior incision. The wound remained aseptn and healed in 20 days. Left hospital in 52 da] with a moveable and serviceable joint. ii. Mahomedan male, cet. 35; fell off a trej one year ago and sustained compound fractui of lower and of left humerus extending into tli joint. The part suppurated, and two sinusf remained leading to bare bone. The joint wi fixed at an angle of 90°. Resection was pe formed through a straight posterior incision, tl i7 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. (articular extremities of the humerus, radius and | ulma being freely removed. The wound healed i in 23 days, and patient left hospital with a moveable and useful joint in 52 days. b. Excision of the knee-joint.—Hindu male, t cet 25. Left knee-joint wounded 7 months ago i by a dhno. It suppurated, and became anchy- j losed at an angle of 120°, and partially dislo- i cated ; patella fixed ; joint opened by a semilunar ij incision below the patella which was separated j by a chisel and removed. An angle was cut I between the condyles of the femur and a wedge I shaped on the head of the tibia, which was fitted ji into it; the wound closed by metallic and horse- t hair stitches and dressed antiseptically. It i healed kindly, and patient left hospital in 122 j days with a straight limb, on which he could ( walk with ease. %* The details of this case have been pub- i Lulled at page 209 of vol. XXIL An operation ( performed on a similar plan was published in i last year’s “ precis.” The result in the present j case was very satisfactory as regards the length l and position of the limb and the strength and t stability of the union. I propose in the next case of amputation through the knee-joint to adopt a similar principle by constructing an j angle between the condyles of the femur and i paring the sides of the patella so as to fit I into it. c. Resection of right cnlcnneo cuboid joint.— I Hindu male, cet. 35. Admitted with caries of I the joint between the os calcis and cuboid, It was exposed by a straight incision, the I diseased surfaces removed by a gouge and thePRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 8 wound dressed antiseptically. He left hospita with sound foot in 50 days. 4. Evasion of the tarsus.—i. Mahomedai I male, at. 4. Tlws child had fever two years age i followed by swelling of the right foot, resultin' i in an abscess which burst and left two siuuse t below the ankle, through which carious bou' j could be felt. The outer sinus was laid open ; \ mass of carious os calcis removed ; the walls o the cavity iu which it lay and the other sinu : were thoroughly scraped with a sharp spoon and the wound dressed antiseptically. Th cavity filled up with granulation material, ant cicatrised soundly in 84 days. ii. Hindu female, cet. 10. Similar history j Sinus lead to the calcaneo-astrogaloid jont whicl i was disorganized. Under similar treatment ; satisfactory result was obtained in 56 days. *** These cases illustrate the benefit whicl is obtainable by carefully scraping in cases o caries aud subsequent antiseptic dressing. Tin operation of Evasion is now recognised as at efficient substitute for resection in many case of joint disease, aud is a further step in th< direction of conservatism. Much depends oi the constitution of the patient, some failure in the next section show. IV.—Operation on Bones. 1. Partial Excision for Necvossis ( Sequestro tomy) (a) Upper jaw.—Mahomedan male, at 20. Had fever 15 months ago, followed bj abscess of right cheek. There are two orifices through the bridge of the nose externally ano beneath the upper lip internally, leading tc loose necrosed bone. The upper lip aud cheel9 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. were raised, the necrosed bones removed, and ' the cavity in which they lay thoroughly scraped. This healed kindly by granulation, and a plas- > tic operation was performed in 15 days to close j up the aperture at the root of the nose. (5) Loioer jaw.—Mahomedan male, Odt. 24 ; > an unhealthy lad with enlarged spleen ; suffered from gumboil six months ago which turued into a large abscessrequiring three external incisious. Sinuses remain at the site of these leading to loose dead bone. The sinuses were enlarged, several fragments of dead bone removed, and several loose teeth extracted. He made a good recovery in 31 days. (c) Sternum. — i. Hindu male, cet. 30. Ab- scesses appeared about the middle of the sternum two years ago, leaving three sinuses which are lined with soft granulation material, and lead to rough bare bone. The sinuses and an abscess situated to right of them were laid open and scraped by sharp spoon. The carious sternum was also removed by gouge and osteotrite. . ii. A second operation of similar character was re- i quired in about three mouths. The parts were i in process of satisfactory repair when patient abscouded after a stay in hospital of 155 days. (d) Hibs. — Hindu male, cet. 31. Necrosis of ; 6th and 7th right ribs, result of abscess 10 * months ago, following fever and dysentery. Sinuses enlarged, and sequestra removed ; re- covered in 42 days. . (e) Carpus.—Hindu male, cet. 45. Abscess of right carpus five months ago, following fever. The trapezoid and cuneiform have already been removed through a sinus on the dorsal10 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. aspect of the wrist through which other dea carpal bones can he discovered. This sinu was freely enlarged, and the os magnum, parte i scaphoid and end of second metacarpal hon were removed. The cavity was thoroughl scraped and rendered aseptic. A satisfactor result was obtained in 58 days. (f) Femur.—i. .Native Christian, cet. 31. Ha an abscess of the left thigh, about seven yeai ago. A sinus has remained on the outer aspec ever since, which is found to lead to bare bout The sinus was enlarged, bits of sclerosed bar bone were removed by chisel and the cavit scraped. The sinus healed, but broke open agaii and bare bone was discovered. Pie grew tire of treatment, and left hospital after a stay c five months. ii. Hindu male, cet. 2. Abscess above le knee five months ago, resulting in sinus lead in to dead bone. A cloaca was found which wi enlarged, and a sequestrum was remove! i and the cavity in which it lay thoroughl scraped. The child was removed in 72 daj before the wound had completely healee Cases of bare sclerosed femur resultin from deep periosteal abscesses are extreme! . tedious and difficult. Free and early openin' of deep abscesses of the thigh prevents th occurrence of this troublesome condition ; bi once established there is nothing for it In enlarging the sinus, chipping and scraping awa the hard bone, draining the cavity, keepin the part at rest, attending to the general healll and exercising patience which is very reqiuisih (g) Knee.—Mahomedan male, cet. o2. i \PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 11 weakly lad who had had his knee-joint resected i in 1886. A sinus broke out in the centre of the incision about 10 months after discharge, i and carious bone was detected through this. The : sinus was enlarged, and several bits of carious i bone removed ; the cavity was scraped, dressed i antiseptically and drained. Symptoms of phthi- i sis appeared about a month after admission, and : he died of this disease in 138 days. (h) Tibia.—i. British seaman, cet. 63, Long ; standing cario-necrosis of lower end of left tibia, several hits of dead bone removed, and the cavity thoroughly scraped and treated for granulation .He left hospital after more than a year’s stay. The tibia which had undergone great thickening has resumed its natural dimen- sinus and the cavity had almost cicatrized. He was advised to go to a temperate climate, as the process of repair was extremely slow. ii. Hindu male, cet. 12. Right tibia, of ; traumatic origin, seven years’ duration, sinuses leading to loose dead bone. These were removed and the cavity thoroughly scraped. Made a good recovery in 54 days. iii. Hindu male, cet. 30. Necrosis of left tibia caused by an absess 12 months ago. A loose se- questrum was removed, and the cavity scraped and dressed antiseptically. A second opera- tion became necessary, but success was even- tually obtained. iv. European male, cet 13. Strumous subject. Sustained a fall five months ago, followed by suppurative periostitis of left tibia, resulting in extensive necrosis of the shaft. Three incisions had been made before admission12 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. through which hare hone was readily dis- covered. An incision was made along the au- terior aspect of the tibia from epiphysis t< epiphysis and 12 sequestra were removed, the i cavity was scraped and dressed autiseptieally It remained aseptic, and partial closure of the wound resulted. The central portion of it, how- ever, failed to heal ; sinuses remained filled will very vascular granulations, and after five month; i a second operation became necessary to removt I some sequestra which still remained. The ' belongs to the list of 1888. v. Hindu male, cet. 15. Caries of internal mat | leolus of right leg, caused by an injury sustainec i 12 months ago, followed by abscess and persisting sinus. The bone is greatly thickened and tin probe pn,sses freely into a cavity lined by rougl ; dead bone. This cavity was laid open, and tin diseased bone thoroughly removed by a gouge the cavity being subsequently smoothed down bj an osteotrite. The wound was dressed antisep I tically for granulation. The granulations whicl grew were gelatinous and were bulky, and tin area of disease extended. vi. About 3J months after the first, a seconi | and more thorough removal of diseased tissui was made in the same way, but it soon becanu i evident that the gelatinous disease implioatei the ankle and tarsus, and amputation of the let at the lower third finally became necessary i (See V, 8, ii). Suitable constitutional treatmeu was employed Avhile these local measures wen being carried out. i. Metatarsus—i. Hindu male, cet. 40. Got hi left foot hurt five years ago. An abscess lorme(PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 13 ■ from which a sinus resulted, which has gradually I enlarged into an ulcer, leading to diseased bone (5th metatarsal). The diseased bone was re- moved and the gelatinous granulations thorough- ly scraped away. The resulting wound healed iii 88 days, and the use of the foot was restored, ii. East Indian male, ciet. 44. A heavy piece I of iron fell on his foot, causing compound com- j minuted fracture of the metatarsal bone, of his : left foot and gangrene of the toes. These fell ; off, and the necrosed pieces of bone came away < with exception of the first, which required an : incision to expose and remove it. A good foot i resulted. He remaiued in hospital 104 days. 2. Refuacture of femur. Hindu male, cet. 13. Broke his right thigh nine weeks ago. It has united with inversion i and great angular distortion. The bone was l DO easily refractured at the angle by placing i the knee against it and making outward : traction at the lower end of the femur. It was i put up in a long splint with extension. Straight union took place, but in endeavouring to bend the stiffened joint, epiphysial separation took place at the upper extremity of the tibia and fibula. This necessitated reapplication of splints. He eventually left the hospital with i a useful limb and power to bend the knee over ' right angle. Amputations for injury. 1. Primary amputation of the arm.—i. Hindu male, cet. 12. Machine accident. Eight hand torn off at the wrist; forearm and lower third of arm hopelessly lacerated. Amputation per- formed by the modified circular method; a loifcr " DPRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 1± posterior flop being stitched to a short anterior. The wound healed by first intention. Dressino-s were changed thrice; the drainage tube removed on the 9th and stitches on the 141li day. He left hospital 17 days after admission. ii. Hindu male, cat. 15. Machine accident. Right arm torn off at. upper third. The sound skin which remained was fashioned into flaps, and the muscles and bone divided circularly at. a sufficient height to permit of easy apposition of I edges. Wound remained aseptic and healed by first intention. Drainage tube and stitches- removed on 11th day. Discharged 27 days after operation. 2. Primary amputation of the thiyh.—Hindu male, cat. 25. A mass of earth fell on his left leg: eight, hours before admission, forcing the lower end of the femur through a ragged wound at the back of the thigh ; great laceration and bruising of soft parts and stripping of bone. Amputation performed through middle third by long anterior and short posterior flaps. Re- mained aseptic and healed by first intention except at two points through which the hare rim of the bone could be felt; these eventually healed without exfoliation. Discharged with an artificial limb in 70 davs. 3. Primary amputation of the metacarpal hone. — Mahomedan male, cat. 28. Machine acci- dent. Right hand badly smashed, thumb and part of 1st phalanx of index finger saved, all the other fingers removed near the carpo-metacarpal joints, and flaps taken from what remained of the skin of the palm and dorsum. Parts re- mained aseptic, healing took place, principally15 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. Ly granulation, in 45 days. Thumb and remains lot forefinger useful for prehension. 4. Secondary amputation of the arm for spreading traumatic gangrene.—Mahomedan female, cut. 25. Admitted with compound fracture of the lower end of radius. Spreading traumatic o-augrene appeared on fourth day reaching as far "as the elbow. Amputation was performed (through the middle of the arm by the circular method. The wound healed by first intention ; (drainage tube and wire stitches removed on 12th, and horse-hair stitches on 8th and 9th days. Left hospital 2$ days, after admission with a jsound rtuimb. , 5. Secondary amputation of the leg for gangrene.—Mahomedan male, cet. 55. Sustained compound fracture of left leg eight days ago. Soft parts gangrenous, tibia extensively bared ; amputation by double flaps (modified circular) at the “ seat of selection ; ” wound underwent putrefaction, and central part of posterior flap sloughed. A satisfactory result was however obtained in 41 days. Amputations for disease. 6. Amputation of the thigh for sarcoma.— Hindu male, cet. 24. Sarcoma of outer aspect of right thigh and of popliteal space, latter grow- ing upwards among the hamstring muscles; of two years’ growth. Amputation performed at upper third of thigh, and some enlarged glands removed by a straight incision below Poupart’s ligament. Wound healed by first intention. ILeft, hospital with an artificial leg in 57 days. 7. Amputation of the leg for epithelioma.—i. Mahomedan male, ait. 18. Cancerous ulcer at16 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. lower half of right, leg of nine months growth Amputation at seat of selection by mm lifiei J circular method. Wound remained aseptic an<J healed by first intention. Discharged iu 4 days. ii. Hindu male, cet.. 30. Suffered from feve at the age of 8, which was followed by symmetri cal gangrene of the feet, causing pathological am putation through the metatarsus on right side ant tarsus on left. Injured the face of left stump : year ago, and since then a cancerous growth ha formed on it. Amputation was performed at tli lower fourth of the leg. The wound remainee sweet and healed by first intention. The lef knee-joint, which was bent at an angle of 120 j on admission, was straightened; and he lef hospital able to walk with an artificial limb in 51 days. 8. Amputation of the leg for diseased ankle —i. East Indian female, cet. 23. Had bee j under treatment for caries of left tarsus thre years ago. The disease has recurred in a aggravated form, rendering amputation of th leg at its lower fourth necessary. The ampin ta'tion wound healed aseptically in 23 days and she was provided with a cylindrical boo 11 and discharged in 50 days. ii. Hindu male, cet. 18. Two operations fo il caries of the tibia and ankle having failed t 1 extirpate the disease (see IY, 1, (/<) v. vi. 1 the foot was removed by amputation a shoi I way above the ankle. The wound healed b II first intention. He was detained in hospits ftv altogether 226 days, but was able to leave abouH a month after the amputation.PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 17 9. Amputation above the ankle (Syme’s) for I disease of the ankle joint.—i. Hindu male, at. 30. Diseased left ankle joint of four months’ standing. Amputation of foot by Syme’s me- thod ; an opening was made in the heel flap for insertion of drainage tube. The wound healed bv first intention, but a sinus remained which Itook a long time to heal. Complete repair was mot obtained until he had spent 188 days in hos- pital. He then left with a sound stump capa- ble of sustaining the weight of the body. ii. Hindu male, cet. 50. Senile caries of right ankle joint tarsus and lower end of tibia of two years’ duration. Amputation of foot by Syme’s imethod. Owing to age and feeble constitution irepair was very slow, and sinus persisted for months. A satisfactory result was eventually obtained. iii. Hindu male, cet. 20. Caries of left ankle {joint and tarsus of one year’s standing. Foot amputated by Syme’s method. Repair very islow. Remained in hospital nearly five months. A good stump finally resulted. 10. Amputation of the metatarsal bones for I necrosis.—Hindu male, cet. 50. Admitted with ta large abscess of the left foot, pointing on the dorsum, of one mouth’s duration through the Icavity of which the second metatarsal joint runs. The third metatarsal was also partially strip- ped and rough. The second toe and its meta- jtarsal were removed, and the third metatarsal (partially resected. The wound healed by Igranulation in 102 days, aud a serviceable foot iremaiued. B18 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. * * * The only circumstance demanding speed notice connected with these amputations is tli absence of mortality among 15 consecutive case' This is a rare experience in the Medical Colleo Hospital, and may, in the light of the pas surgical history of the institution, be fairl credited to tbe careful employment of ant septics. VI.—Removal of Tumours (by Excision A. Malignant Tumours.—1. Removal . recurrent cancerous glands.—Hindu male, ce 48. A case of cancer of the face and low< jaw (2. c.), in which a gland at the posterior bo der of the sterno-mastoid muscle undenvei enlargement and induration six weeks after tl first operation. It was removed, and the patiei left hospital apparently well, and has not sine been heard of. 2. («) i. Epithelioma of the cheek.—i. Ea ludiau male, cat. 55 ; a mammillated growth c the inside of right cheek of seven months’ dura tion, caused by the irritation of a bad toot. The tooth was extracted, and the growth thorough ly removed, a portion of the cheek being take along with it. An enlarged sub-maxillary lym phatic gland was at the same time extirpate The parts were carefully stitched, and heah by first intention. No sign of recurrence win he left hospital 36 days after operation. ii. European male, at. 49 ; a very heai smoker. A leucomatous patch formed on tl inside of the right cheek between the tee which appears to have degenerated into ii epithelioma about six mouths ago. The rig-1 cheek was divided from the angle outwards, ai19 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. the diseased mucous membrane thoroughly re- moved by scissors. Suspicious looking tissue was also removed from the root of the tongue, interior pillar of fauces and angle between the aws. A few hours after the operation free bleeding took place, which was stopped by put- :ing a catgut loop round the facial artery, as it crossed the lower jaw. The wound healed by irst intention. Some closure (atresia) of the laws took place during cicatrization. He has been seen repeatedly since the operation, and no ecurrence has taken place. (b) Epithelioma of the tongue.—European male, cat. 50 ; a hard smoker ; noticed a small growth on the left margin of the tongue 15 mouths ago, which has gradually increased and ecently ulcerated ; the growth was undoubtedly «aucerous and involved only the left half of '.he tougue; floor of the mouth and fauces free ; ho glandular complication. A straight in- •isiou was made from the symphysis of the ower jaw to the hyoid bone below the chin, he aponeurosis of the mylo-hyoid muscle llivided and the left half of the tongue isolated >y the fi lger and scissors. The loop of a main ecraseur was carried through the sub- nental wound round the root of the left half if the tongue, which was severed slowly and [removed without bleeding. The wound healed pndly, and patient was able to leave hospital in 1-0 days. He has been seen repeatedly since When, and no recurrence has taken place. He rticulates distinctly. fc) Epithelioma of the lower jaw.—Hindu mile, cet. 48. Disease of seven months’ duration,PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 20 implicated left cheek, left ramus and the skii over the left sub-maxillary triangle. A trial)®! of skin was taken from the cheek and side < the neck, including the diseased parts, the lowe jaw divided at the symphysis and angle, an removed with the overlying and underiyin diseased parts. Skin was taken from the rig! side of the neck and from behind and belo’ the left ear to fill up the gap. Two disease' glands were removed—from over the hyoi bone and behind the sterno-mastoid. The woun healed kindly. It became necessary subse- quently to remove a lymphatic gland lowr down (see VI, 1, above). The patient was di charged after a stay of 80 days in hospital. (d) Epithelioma of the chest wall.—Hinc male, cet. 35. Sustained a severe burn of tl chest wiill at the age of five. Four months as the scar began to ulcerate, and there is now large cancerous sore 5 in. x 2 on the front O y ^ I the chest. The movements of the arms a impaired by cicatricial bands extending aero the axilla in front. The epithelioma w thoroughly removed, and flaps taken from t sound skin in the neighbourhood to fill up t gap. The arms were liberated by the sar operation. A very satisfactory result wj obtained in 66 days. (e) Epithelioma of the scrotum.—Hin<i| male, cat. 48. A lump appeared on the rig.] side of the scrotum 10 months ago, which li grown to the size of an egg, and presents the appearances of a cancerous growth. Tl rest of the scrotum was somewhat, hypertil phied ; penis healthy. The skin of the scrotiPRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 21 ■was dissected off as for scrotal tumour, and the right testicle, which was found to present a suspicious nodule, removed. The left testicle was healthy, and was stitched iuto a pocket with catgut. The wound healed kindly, and patient left hospital without auy sigu of recur- rence in 34 days. Epithelioma of the penis and scrotum.—i. Hindu male, cet. 45. Disease commenced three years ago on the glans. It has now implicated the whole body of the penis, the adjacent sur- face of the scrotum, both testes and the inguinal glands of both sides. The corpora cavernosa were divided at the crura, and the corpus spon- giosum in the perinseum, and the penis entirely removed. The diseased scrotum and testes were taken away, and the inguinal glands dissected out. The operation was very formidable and bloody, and the patient died of shock 14 hours after its completion. ii. Hindu male, cet. 50. Disease of eight months’ duration ; implicates the body of the penis, the surrounding skin, the inguinal glands on both sides and the skin covering them. The penis was amputated near the root ; the corpus spongiosum was left longer than the cavernosa ; the diseased skin was removed from the scrotum and groins, and the inguinal glands extirpated. The scrotum was split in the centre and carried up to the margin of the pubic wound to which it was stitched, the urethra being attached to the lower angle of the wound. The parts un- derwent repair in 45 days; the scrotal flaps ad- hering by first intention to the pubis, and the rest of the wound healed by granulation. No22 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. sign of recurrence was observed when the patien left hospital^ and lie was able to micturate com fortably. iii. Mahomedan male, cmt. 35. Congenita phimosis followed by gonorrhoea six years age The cancer seems to ha,ve commenced about tw< years ago. Disease confined to the penis; in guinal glands enlarged on both sides. The peni was removed near the root ; the corpus spongio sum being left longer than the cavernosa an stitched to the lower angle of the wound. Th parts healed in 23 days. The swelling of till inguinal glands subsided. * 9. Epithelioma of the rectum.—East India: I; male, cat. 58. Disease* of six months’ duration involving the perinaeum and adjacent portion oi 1 the scrotum, the anus, and the rectum to a dept; : of about H inches ; extending farther up on th posterior aspect. An incision was made throng, n ihe skin, and subcutaneous areolar tissue bey on ; 1 he limits of the growth, till the ischiorecta m fossae were reached ; the rectum was divided b scissors beyond the reach of the disease intei nally, and its edges brought down and stitche • to the skin. The parts healed by granulatio il in 61 days. He had some control over the anu when he left hospital, and there was no sigu c recurrence. *** These cases of epithelioma were so fa successful that the patients recovered (with on exception) from formidable operations, an i manifested no immediate recurrence of th disease. They have, as is usually the case i this country, been lost sight of, and it is impossi ble to ascertain whether the relief was perma iPRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 23 nent, or to what extent life was prolonged. The causes of death in the fatal case were age, feeble vitality, and severe mutilation causing shock. 3. («) Sarcoma, of the axilla.—Hindu male, cet. 50. A large tumour of three months’ growth, occupying the left chest and axilla, extending from left, clavicle down to left nipple and from left margin of the sternum to the posterior told of the axilla. A long horizontal incision was made from the nipple to the shoulder and a 'vertical incision at right angles to it to the [posterior fold of the axilla. The surface of the tumour was exposed by dissection, and its deep attachments which extended far into !the axilla cautiously severed. The branches of the brachial plexus had to be dissected out, land the surface of the pectoralis major latis- isimus dorsi and serratus magnus cleaned. The tumour weighed 2b lbs. The wound healed by first intention iu 18 days. Patient fell into an exceedingly low state, from which he slowly (recovered. He left hospital apparently well 86 idays after the operation ; but presented himself isometime afterwards with a recurrence in situ, which was deemed beyond the reach of opera- tion. (h) Sarcoma of the testicle and cord.—Hindu male, cet. 30. Sustained an injury of right scrotum 10 months ago, which resulted in a swelling of the testicle, which is now as large as a bael fruit, tense, tender and fluctuating ; the outer coverings are healthy, and the testicle can be obscurely felt posteriorly. On tapping the distended tunica sanious fluid issued mixed with small masses of curdy material resemblino- J OPRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 21 v. Hindu, cat. 30. Four years’ duration the clot in hacmatocele. Under the impressioi that the disease was of this nature, a free inci i sion was made, and a quantity of sanguiueou. fluid with masses of soft pulpy solid removed | Profuse bleeding ensued, and on examining tin solid material, it was found to present the eharac ter of sarcoma. Patient was at once chloroforrnei and castration performed. The cord was foun< i to be infiltrated as far as the internal inguina ring. The inguinal canal had to be laid open A long wound remained, the greater part of whicl healed by first intention. He left the hospita with the parts soundly healed, and no sign o recurrence in 37 days. • B. Non-malignant Tumours. 1-a. Elephantiasis of the scrotum.—Hindu c&t. 40; 16 years’ duration. Removed in th usual manner; large haematocele on right sid and hydrocele on left. Tunica emptied am pared off close to the testicle. Suffered fror .shock, succeeded by excessive reaction,(tempera ture rising quickly to 104°,) which proved fata in 16 hours. Weighed 10 lbs. 3 oz. ii. Hindu, CBt. 30. Eight years’ duration preceded by hydrocele. Usual operation. 2 pint 7 oz. of fluid removed from right and 2 oz. from left tunica. Wound remained sweet; recoveret t in 56 days. Tumour weighed 2 lbs. iii. Hindu, cet. 47 ; 11 years’duration ; usua operation ; wound remained sweet and healet j in 37 days* Tumour weighed 25 lbs. 4 oz. iv. Hindu, oet. 22 ; 14 years’ duration ; usua operation; wound remained aseptic and healet in 44 days. Weighed 2 lbs. 7 oz.25 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. jremoved in the usual manner ; small hydroceles. I Wound healed aseptically in 67 clays. Weighed 12 lbs. 4 oz. vi. Hindu, cet. 20 ; 12 months’ duration ; ’usual operation; small hydroceles; wound I granulated aseptically in 76 days. Weighed (1 lb. 7 oz. vii. Hindu, cet. 42. History of bubo and chancre 15 years ago, followed by gradual for- mation of tumour; usual operation ; double hydrocele; recovered iu 62 days. Weighed 1 lb. 6 oz. viii. Hindu, cet. 21. Two years’ duration, preceded by hydrocele ; usual operation. Left jliiospital in 57 days. Weighed 2 lbs. 10 oz. ix. Mahomedan, cet. 30. Three years’ dura- tion, followiug hydrocele ; usual operation ; left Itunica contained two pints of fluid. Remained in hospital 98 days. Weighed 6 lbs. 12 oz. x. Mahomedan, cet. 48. Eight years’ dura- tion, preceded by hydrocele ; usual operation. Haematocele on right side, hydrocele on left. iLeft hospital in 94 days. Weighed 18 lbs. 7 oz. xi. Hindu, cet. 20. One year’s duration, jusual operation; small right hydrocele; left jltunica adherent. Recovered in 80 days. 'Weighed 2 lbs. 4 oz. xii. Hindu, cet. 21. Nine years’ duration ; 'usual operation ; small hydroceles. Recovered tin 76 days. Weighed 1 lb. 8 oz. xiii. Hindu, cet. 55 ; 35 years’ duration. ; Recent rapid growth. Very large tumour, ■reaching four inches from the ground. Removed tin the usual way. Patient became low during ■the operation, and artificial respiration had toPRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 20 he resorted to. lie made a good recovery ! jl 84 days ; wound healed aseptically. Tumoi: weighed 56 lbs. i xiv. Hindu, ait. 35. Three months’ dur tion ; usual operation ; small hydroceles. Di charged in 81 days. Weighed 1 lb. 6 oz. xv. Hindu, CBt. 28. Eight years’ duratio History of hydrocele. Removed in the usu i manner. Recovered in 91 days. Weighed 3 Hi xvi. Hindu, cet.. 50. Six years’ duratio ! History of hydrocele ; usual operation. Tunic i calcareous ; dissected off. Recovered in 64 day\ Weighed 9 lbs. 2 oz. *** This series is chiefly remarkable for tl t satisfactory recoveries which all the patien i made with one exception. A mortality of 6 per cent, is very low when cases are not vett rigidly selected. Some of the tumours we of good size (56, 25 and 18 lbs.); many of tl patients were advanced in years; some in i i different health, and a few of them a confirm! ( opium-eaters. Still none of them gave cau for the slightest anxiety with the exceptk noted. The plan of operation was the same that which I have pursued for some years, ai described fully in my work on “ Operative Su gery ” and article on Scrotal Elephantiasis Heath’s Dictionary. Great care was taken applying the first dressing, and the deep dres ing was left undisturbed for 10 or 12 days, tl other being removed as often as it was “ soaked The scrotal part of the wound generally heah in three or four weeks, but delay takes place the cicatrization of the penis, more particular when care is taken, as it should be, to presei"PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 27 the length, and isolation of the organ with a iview to future use. (6.) Elephantiasis of the labia.—Mahomedau, I tot. 30 ; 5J years’ duration, following gonorrhoea and chancre, the labia majora and minora and preputium clittoridis are hypertrophied. The redundancies were carefully removed, and a satisfactory result obtained in 28 days. 2. Osteocystoma of lower jaw.—Hindu male, oet. 35. Tumour of 25 years’ growth, involves right half of lower jaw, Overlying skin ulcer- luted ; general health indifferent. The right half of the bone was removed by division at the sym- physis and disarticulation. Symptoms of septi- caemia appeared on the third day, and the disease proved fatal on the 9th. The wound became sloughy and gaped. 3. Removal of enlarged cervical glands.— Hindu male, cet. 30, a native of Nepaul, has suffered from strumous enlargement of the glands ion the right side of the neck for five months : (four sinuses exist, leading to the sub-maxillary (parotid and deep cervical glands. These were enlarged, and the glands, which were in a state partly of caseation and partly of suppuration, 'were removed by huger and director. The opera- tion was somewhat formidable, and was followed by considerable shock ; the wounds were treated Iantiseptically and healed by granulation in 104 flays. 4. Removal of diseased inguinal glands.— ii. East Indian male, cet. 26. Obstinate enlarge- ■ment of left inguinal glands following chancre, f'l'hey were exposed by incision and removed Iby hn ger. The wound healed in 38 days.PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 28 ii. East Indian male, cet. 56. Left inguina glands' enlarged to the size of a foetal head they were exposed by crucial incision and extir pated. The wound healed by first intention and he left hospital in 35 days. 5. i. Removal of Papilloma of the foot.— Mahomedan male, cet. 35. Got a thorn into th sole of left foot three months ago. It was cu out and a warty growth formed at the site whie has grown to the size of a walnut and is pio. meuted on the surface. It was removed togethe with a liberal margin of adjacent skin, and flap taken from the neighbourhood. These adherei and sound repair was obtained in 38 days. ii. Warty growth on leg.—Hindu male, ce, 45. Case of elephantiasis of left leg, in whicl there is a large mass of warty growths in fron of the ankle, greatly impeding locomotior These were removed by oval incision, togethe with a triangular piece of the subjacent elephan tiasis down to the fascia. There was very fre bleeding, and it was found difficult to secure th vessels in the hard elephantoid tissue. Twelv bits of skin were stitched on the surface of th wound. These <c took ” aud the sore healed i six weeks. iii. Two months after the first operation similar removal of warty growths from behin the ankle was made and with success. He lei hospital four months after admission with fre and painless movement of the ankle joint. 6. Removal of a. keloid mass from the chest.- Hindu male, cet. 16. The growth situated ove the manubrium, is about the size of a sma lemon aud appeared after a boil. It has recentPRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 29 v undergone suppuration. It was removed by suitable incisions, and flaps were taken from the neighbourhood to fill up the wound. Gaping took place and repair was slow. Discharged in 183 days. 7. Removal of Condyloma of the rectum.— Hindu male, cut. 50. A number of ulcerated flumps surround the arms which is thickened and strictured. They were freely removed by scissors, including about an inch and a half of the o-ut. the edge of which was brought down and stitched to the skin. Repair took place in 51 days. The control over the faeces was imperfect. 7. i. Removal of haemorrhoids.—East Indian male, cet. 35. Large internal and external piles removed by clamp and cautery. Satisfactory |result in 17 days. ii. Hindu male, cet. 30. Five large internal piles removed by clamp and cautery. Dis- charged in 13 days. iii. East Indian female, cet. 46. Internal and lexternal piles removed by scissors after White- head’s plan. Wound healed in 57 days. iv. Mahomedau male, cet. 55. Very large partially strangulated internal pile and smaller external pile which is fissured and ulcerated. Condition very miserable. Removed by White- head’s method. Satisfactory result in 22 days. v. European male, cet. 35. Three internal piles removed by Whitehead’s plan. Discharged in 30 days. vi. Jewish male, cet. 30. Internal andexter- ! nal piles of five years’ duration, bleeding badly ; i removed by Whitehead’s method. Wound heal- ed in 10 days.PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 30 * * * The method of’ removal b)r scissors, an proposed by Whitehead, is easy of performance and, though repair is tedious in some cases, the final result is satisfactory. Bleeding can very easily be controlled by forcipressure, and, i j necessary, by ligature. VII.—Removal of Calculi. 1. Prostatic Calculus removed by incision.- Mahomedau male, cet. 25. Has suffered froir signs of stone since childhood. Symptoms have recently become aggravated. A stone was detected in the prostatic portion of the urethra which was removed by perinaeal section. It weighed 3 drs. 49 grs. On exploring the blad der, a large stone was found to occupy it, toe large to be removed through the perinaeumj accordingly—• 2. i. Suprapubic lithotomy was performed at once, and a stone weighing 6 oz. 11 grs. was removed. A drainage tube was passed througl both wounds. The suprapubic portion of i was first withdrawn, and the tube shortened and when this wouud healed, the remainder o the tube was removed from the perinaeal wound This eventually healed, and patient left hospita in good health after a stay of 64 days. ii. Hindu male, act. 30. Admitted wit! retention of urine. Had passed a calculus ii childhood and suffered severely from urinary troubles since then. Two small calculi were removed from the urethra, and a small stone was then detected in a firmly contracted and very irritable bladder; the urethra was very narrow Suprapubic lithotomy was performed withou: previous distension of either rectum or bladder31 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. uul a small phosphatic calculus weighing 6 drs. vas removed, together with several fragments of esser size. Pie began to make water through he penis 33 days after the operation ; and the uprapubic wound having closed, he was dis- sharged in 49 days. 3. Litholupuxy. i. Mahomedan male, cet. 50. Symptoms of four months’ duration. A stone vhose debris weighed 1 oz. 20 grs. was removed ny five crushings and evacuations. Left hospi- al in five days. ii. Hindu, cet. 30. Symptoms of two years’ luration. A stone whose debris weighed 4 drs. 10 grs., removed by seven introductions of litho- rite and evacu&tor. Left hospital in 10 days. iii. Mahomedan, cet. 40. S) mptoms of 22 months’ duration. Debris weighed 1 dr. 20 grs. Six introductions. Suffered from cystitis. Dis- charged in 17 days. iv. Hindu male, cet. 37. Symptoms of 12 months’ duration. Debris weighed 3 drs. Four utroductions. Left hospital in 8 days. v. Same patient re-admitted two months after lischarge with persisting symptoms of stone. A fragment weighing 1 dr. was found, and crush- id and removed by three introductions. Left lospital the same day. 4. Lateral lithotomy. — Mahomedan male, et. 6. Symptoms for iwo years. A small oxalic itone weighing 1 dr. 23 grs. was removed by literal lithotomy. He was discharged in 20 days. VIII.—Incisions. 1. Tracheotomy.—Hindu female, cet. 36. Has suffered from strumous laryngitis for two pears, and had great difficulty of breathing forPRECIS OP OPERATIONS. ii. Hindu male, cet. 50. Has had right obi 32 eight days. Tracheotomy was performed al>ov the isthmus ; immediate relief was obtained. Th tube was worn for eight days, and the wouir healed within a week after its removal. 2. Operations for strangulated hernia — Hindu male, cet. 30. Left oblique inguinal hei nia of six months’ duration, irreducible for tw days. Local and general symptoms of strangu lation well marked. Sanguineous serum escape on puncturing the sac with a fine trocar. Ver low ; tongue dry ; pulse scarcely perceptible Sac laid open ; stricture divided, and the intes tine, which was ecchymosed and highly congest ed, returned ; neck of sac tied. A rupture wn found at the fundus. Pillars brought togethe and wound stitched. Died of exhaustion short ly after completion of the operation. que inguinal reducible hernia for 25 years. Tli rupture descended about an hour before admin sion, and could not be returned. Ice was appliet and taxis tried repeatedly. Five and a ha hours after the descent, symptoms of stranguh tion becoming more apparent, the sac was lai open, the stricture was divided, and a consider! ble length of congested intestine and mesentev returned. The sac was dissected out ; the nec tied, and the rest cut off. The pillars wei sutured, an opening made in the scrotum, ai tie wound stitched. He left hospital in 22 dni with his hernia to all appearance radically cure< iii. Mahomedan male, cet. 60. Has suffere from right oblique reducible inguinal hernia f< 30 years. Came down 15 hours before admii sion, and could not be returned. Ice and tax :33 PRECIS OP OPEEATIONS. were tried in vain, and chloroform was adminis- tered 24 hours after descent; the neck of the sac exposed by incision, the stricture divided, aud the contents returned without opening the sac. The wound was stitched and healed by 3rst intention. He left hospital in 21 days, and tvas provided with a well fitting truss, which acted efficiently. 4. Operations for the radical cure of hernia.— . Hindu male, cet. 24. Right reducible ingui- nal hernia of three years’ duration. Ring large ; Health good. Sac dissected out, tied at the neck, md removed ; pillars brought together with cat- gut. Opening for drainage made in the scro- um. Got erysipelas on the 3rd day, aud died if exhaustion on the 9th. ii. Hindu male, cet. 30. Reducible right oblique inguinal hernia of two years’ duration, irreducible for 24 hours on admission. Reduced ny ice and taxis. The usual operation of dis- ection, ligature and removal of sac was per- iormed four days afterwards. The wound healed by first intention, and he was discharged ap- parently cured in 24 days. iii. Mahomedati male, cet. 30. Left reduci- ble oblique inguinal hernia (epiplocele) of six booths’ duration. Operation as in preceding tases. Wound healed by first intention ; two iraall sinuses remained, through which catgut mots came. Discharged cured iu 42 days. L iv. Hindu male, cet. 24. Reducible right oblique inguinal hernia of two years’ duration. I fame operation. Two sacs were fouud in this [iuse — one recent, and one old. The wound ruppurated, and a small abscess formed iu the c34 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. scrotum. The parts eventually healed well, and lie was discharged apparently cured in 42 days. v. East Indian male, cet. 20. Reducible right oblique inguinal hernia of two years’ dura- tion. Usual operation. The wound putrefiec and suppurated. An abscess formed in the rigli. flauk, which resulted in a very obstinate sinus Patient remained under treatment for 200 days but eventually made a satisfactory recovery. vi. Hindu male, cet. 30. Reducible let oblique inguinal hernia of 1J years’ duration Usual operation. Wound healed by first iuten tion. Discharged in 36 days. vii. Hindu male, cet.. 41. Irreducible righ oblique inguinal hernia. Sac laid open, an found to contain omentum, which was adherer to its interior in three places. These adhesion were divided after ligature and the omentum ri turned. The operation was then completed i the usual manner. The wound suppurated an healed by granulation. He was discharged cure in 75 days. viii. Mahomedan male, cet. 30. Reducib right oblique inguinal hernia of six months’ dur; tion ; occurred during an attack of dysenter; Usual operation performed; recovered in days. Suffered from dysentery for a few da; after operation. ix. Hindu male, cet. 30. Left oblique inguin hernia of six months’ duration ; irreducible f 24 hours on admission. It was returned aft application of ice, and the usual operation f radical cure was performed three days afterwarc He was doing well when tetanus appeared < the 8th day and proved fatal in 27 hours. I. r p35 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. * * The operatiou performed in these nine sases was that which has been minutely describ- ed in previous papers. The mortality 2 iu 9 is very high, and resulted from surgical accideuts not special to this class of cases. Iu two cases sonvalesceuce was delayed by suppuration. The result of operatiou seemed to be quite satisfac- tory in all seven cases when they left the hospi- al; none of them have been seen or heard of since. o. Incision for hcematocele.—i. Hindu male, let. 30. Hydrocele of two years’ standing ; was injured a mouth ago, since when it has become ense, hard and very painful. An abscess was iound at the fundus of the scrotum aud opeued. the luematocele was also laid open, its contents ■emoved, the cavity syringed with bichloride of nercury lotion and stuffed lightly with boracic iut. The wound had nearly healed wheu the ■atieut- absconded 54 days after operation. ! ii. Jew, cet. 19. Injured his right testicle two rears ago. It swelled in two days, and has con- tinued hard, painful, aud swollen ever siuce ; i aematocele diagnosed on admission. The tunica s'/as laid open as in the preceding case. The tavity was closed by granulation iu 54 days. 6. («) Perinceal section with a guide.— i. I[ahomedan male, cet. 50. Has suffered from ain and trouble in making water for one month. l gritty sensation was fouud iu the prostatic rethra on sounding. A grooved staff was passed ud perimeal section performed. About 2\ grains f pho8phatic debris were removed with the "Oop end of a director from the prostatic urethra. The peringeal wound healed in 18 days, ii. Hiudu male, cet. 36. History of gonor-PRECIS OE OPERATIONS. 36 rhoea and stricture followed by abscess a.i fistula in peringea. The urethra was full dilated, but another abscess formed, and per meal section was resorted to. He was discharge! cured in 52 days. Recovery was delayed fc epididymitis and scrotal abscess. A full-size instrument was passed every fourth day. iii. Hindu male, cet. 60. Suffered fro gonorrhoea sometime ago. An abscess forme in the peringenm a fortnight ago, resulting three urinary fistulge—one in the perinaeum ai two in the left buttock. Urethra admits No. 12 instrument. The perinasum and men branous urethra were divided, and a full-size instrument passed occasionally. He recoven in 35 days. Epididymitis and rectal dyseutei occurred during convalescence. iv. Hindu male, cet. 30. Gonorrhoea months ago, followed by an abscess at the ro of the penis, which resulted in a fistula, for t cure of which a plastic operation was perform f in vain. A perinaeal section was performed the purpose of entirely diverting the stream urine, and giving the fistula, the edges of whi were at the same time freshened, an opportuui of closing. The fistula contracted greatly, b did not undergo perfect occlusion. A few dro still escaping under the full pressure of urinatii j| (b) Perinceal section without a guide (Coc operation.)—i. Hindu male, cet. 50. Admitt i with sloughing of the scrotum consequent fever. Suffering also from stricture of 1 urethra. An abscess found in the perinmu He suffered from retention, in the endeavour relieve which a false passage was made. 1 NPRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 37 levbscess was evacuated, and the prostatic urethra ■aid open by the same operation. An instrument Lvas at the same time passed through the urethra from behind forwards ; it would not pass in the opposite direction owing to the false passage. Ufter a stay of 43 days, he left hospital with the Scrotal and perinaeal wounds cicatrised and Lrethra fully dilated. A full-sized instrument Iliad been passed every fourth day. i ii. Hindu male, ce£. 56. Gonorrhoea 10 years hgo, followed by stricture. Admitted with reten- tion. Catheterism had been tried without effect. Che prostatic urethra was opened by Cock’s huethod,the bladder emptied, and stricture divid- ed. A full-sized instrument was occasionally passed, and he left the hospital quite cured in ■ 4 days. 1 iii. Hindu male, at. 30. Gonorrhoeafive years jjgo, followed by stricture. Admitted with reten- tion. A false passage had been made in the Attempt to relieve it. The same treatment was Ipopted as in the last case with similar result in 38 days. i iv. Mahomedan male, cat. 35. Gonorrhoea 16 jlears ago, followed by stricture. Peri meal abscess Iprrned a fortnight ago, accompanied with great |velling of the scrotum and abdominal wall, gladder distended on admission ; urine drib- bling ; a free incision was made in the perinaeum, ■vacuating the abscess and entering the urethra, s he stricture was also divided, and two incisions liade in the fundus of the scrotum. He made p good recovery in 31 days. J v. European male, cel. 30. Gonorrhoea three Sears ago, followed by stricture. Suffering from38 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. retention, in attempting to relieve wliicli fals ' passages had been made. Cock’s operatiojl was performed, and the stricture divided at tli same time. He made a good recovery in 3 days ; the urethra admitting No. 14 catheter. vi. Hindu male, cet. 49. Gonorrhoea 10 year ago, followed by stricture. Had retention eeve i years ago, relieved by eatbeterism. For the las two mouths the urine has been dribbling, an bladder distended. A catheter was passed 2 days ago, followed by bleeding. On admissio j bladder found distended with decomposed uriuj aud clots ; prostate enlarged : urethra lacerated patient very low; the perinaeum was freel opened ; and the bladder washed out. He die of exhaustion about an hour after the operatioi vii. Hindu male, cet. 18. Ruptured hi urethra by a fall on a brick about an hoi before admission. Blood issuing from urethra ; peringeum swollen ; catheter could not be passe' The peringeum was at once divided ; a No. 1 entered into the bladder through the urethr and a Syme’s S-shaped catheter retained. Le the hospital quite well in 46 days. A full-size instrument was passed every third day to mail tain the potency of the urethra. viii. Hindu male, cet. 40. Gonorrhoea eig> years ago. Symptoms of stricture for foi 1 months, complete retention for 45 hours. Catli terism failing, the urine was removed by aspi a ation. The catheter could then be passed, but false passage was discovered. This rendered fr quent eatbeterism impossible,and the bladder w entered by Cock’s method, and Syme’s cathet retained for three days. He made a good r fPRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 39 covery in 63 days, and left hospital with the periuaeal wound closed and urethra of full capa- city. ix. Hindu male, cet. 5. Admitted with ex- travasation of urine. Dribbling of urine, with swelling of penis and scrotum, observed two jtdays previously. Complete retention for 12 hours. The bladder was opened through the pe- irinieum, and free incisions made into the swollen giarts. Very extensive sloughing took place. The patient suffered from low fever, and became delirious on the 13th day, aud died shortly of exhaustion. The cause of the extravasation could not be discovered. No calculus was fouud, nor was there a tight phimosis. x. Hindu male, cet. 44. Fracture of the base bf the skull and cervical spine, and rupture of Urethra caused by a bag of castor-oil seed falling pn his neck. Bladder distended ; clear urine prawn off by a small trochar. Catheter could not be passed, and blood welled from urethra. The bladder was reached through the perinaeum Imd emptied, and a soft instrument tied in. He lied of the injuries of the skull and spine 20 lours after the operation. xi. Mahomedan male, cet. 50. Gonorrhoea ollowed by stricture. A periuaeal abscess ap- pears to have formed a week ago burst into the urethra and caused extravasation of urine. Free incisions were made into swollen parts. The bladder was entered through the periuaeal inci- sion. Considerable scrotal sloughing took place: lie suffered from dysenteric diarrhoea and re- named in a very low state for a long time. H e eft hospital eventually in 123 days with all thePEECXS OP OPERATIONS. 40 wounds healed, anu able to make water in full stream through the urethra. xii. Hindu male, cet. 40. Case of extravasa- tion of urine due to recent gonorrhoea. Cock’s operation performed and free incisions made into the oedematous parts. He was detained 92 days in hospital, but 1 eft with all the wounds closed and urethra fully patent. %* In 4 of these 16 cases an instrument couli be introduced into the bladder, and externa, urethrotomy was performed in the usual way One was a case of prostatic calculus, and tin other three cases of perinseal fistula in whicl treatment by dilatation, or tying in did not offei much prospect of success. In the remaining 11 cases an instrument could not be introduced intc the urethra, or it was considered inadvisable t< make the attempt: in these cases Cock’s opera tion is extremely valuable. It is easy of performance and in itself per fectly harmless. One of the fatal cases (extra vasation) was moribund on admission. Anothe case of extravasation died of blood-poisoning ii a few days. The third (rupture of urethra) diet of head and neck injuries. All the rest (two o perimeal abscess, four of retention and stricture one of rupture of urethra, aud two of extravasa tion) made good recoveries. Care was taken b follow up the operation by regular catheterism In several of the cases the inability to pass ai instrument was due to false passages and lacera tions, which had been made prior to admis sion. 7. Lumbar colotomy.—Hindu male, ait. 30 ; ! : i tl k k 8 si tiiPRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 41 J3as had increasing trouble in passing stools for 14 months. No fleces have been voided for 26 days, and for several days no flatus has passed. Abdomen tender and tympanitic. Coils of dis- tended intestine visible; pulse weak; tongue moist; temperature normal. A bard growth detected in the rectum, and an impermeable stricture beyond it. The descending colon was opened in the left lumbar region, and the edges of the opening stitched to the wound. Fames and flatus were immediately voided, and continued to pass uninterruptedly during the 84 days he remained in hospital. The rectal growth underwent ulceration, and the iuguiual glands became enlarged. 8. Tenotomy for double talipes equino-varus.— European child, cet. 2\ years. The tendo achillis tibialis posticus and anticus, exteusor longus digitorum and plantar fascia were divided on both sides, and by proper attention to position the deformity was satisfactorily corrected. 9. Incision for stricture of the Rectum.— Mahomedan male, cut. 45. There were tight annular bands due to cicatrization of dysenteric ulcers, and causing very severe stricture. The bauds were divided towards the sacrum by a hernia knife, and the gut fully dilated by bougies. He remained under treatment 18 days. 10. large abscesses—(a) Axillary abscess. An East Indian female, cet. 30. Duration eight days, following fever. Opened antiseptically under chloroform by Hilton’s method. Dis- charged well in 30 days. (5) Iliac abscesses.—i. Hindu male, cet. 10. Eight days’ duration, following injury of hip42 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. a month ago. Opened antiseptically below Pou- part’s ligament. Healed in 93 days. ii. East Indian male, oet. 19. Duration 21 days, following fever. Suffered from abscesses ! over sacrum, and in the gluteal regions two months ago. Opened antiseptically below Pou- [i part’s ligament. Healed in 46 days. (c) Gluteal abscesses.—i. Hindu female, out. 25. It Large deep abscess resulting from a fall five ! days ago. Opened and drained autiseptically. j Healed in 29 days. ii. Hindu male, oet. 20. Eight days’ duration,. • following fever. Opened and drained antisep- tically. Healed in 16 days. iii. Hindu male, oet. 22. Eight days’ dura- tion, following punctured wound of foot ; 8 oz. j of pus evacuated antiseptically. Healed in i 22 days. iv. Hindu male, oet. 30. History of fall and subsequent 20-mile walk. Opened and drained 1 antiseptically. Healed in 30 days. v. Mahomedan male ; 20 days’ duration, < following fever. Opened and drained antisep- j tically. Another abscess formed in the lumbar region, which was similarly treated. Discharged in 51 days. (d) Thigh abscesses.—i. East Indian male, oet. 27. Duration 15 days following fever. Opened and drained antiseptically. On the 6th ' y day he had a severe relapse of fever which i proved fatal next day. ii. East Indian male, at. 18. A deep ery- sipelatous inflammation of right thigh arisiug in the course of fever. Suppuration occurring, the abscess was laid open. Three other abscesses ; uPRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 43 formed, of left thigh, and both gluteal regions, which were also opened. He left the hospital well in 70 days. %* These are a few out of a large number of abscesses treated during the year, whose size and depth gave the measures necessary for their treatment the right to be called “major” opera- tions. IX. Reparative Operations. 1. For cicatrix after burn.—i. Hindu male, cet. 11. This boy sustained a severe burn 2^ years ago, which caused adhesion of the right arm to the chest wall, and flexion of the arm and forearm. He had undergone two previous operations, one in 1885 by Dr. Raye, and one by myself in 1886 (see “ Prdcis ” for that year X. 5. ii.) The forearm was still flexed on the arm, and retained in that position by a triangular cicatricial web. A similar web bound the arm to the chest, but the extremity had been con- siderably (reed bv the previous operations. On the 16th of March the triangular web connect- mg the arm and forearm was divided in the mid- dle, and flaps were taken from the sides and placed on the flexor aspect of the elbow joint. These adhered, and the limb was gradually made straight. ii. On the 20th of July, the other web was divided, and a large flap taken from the back and transplanted under the armpit. This par- tially sloughed, but enough remained to prevent reformation of a web. He left the hospital after a slay of 295 days in good health, and with much greater freedom of movement of the ex- tremity.PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 41 iii. Mahomedan male, out. 15. Sustained a j • severe burn seven years ago, which caused ad- Is hesiou of the left arm to the chest wall. A thick l'1 horny cicatricial plate covered the left half of the chest. This plate was removed hy dissec--iijl’ tion, the skin connecting the arm to the chest if posteriorly divided, and one edge stitched to the chest, and the other to the arm. Flaps were taken from the neighbourhood to close up the i bo extensive raw surface left hy these dissections. In These for the most part retained their vitality |tt and position. He left hospital in 40 days with a useful and moveable limb. ij if, iv. Hindu female, cet. 36. Sustained a burn lie five months ago which has caused the formation |k of a triangular cicatricial web binding the arm j Fi and forearm in a position of acute flexion. The web was split from base to apex, and flaps were taken from the sides of the arm and forearm, and stitched together over the flexor aspect of the elbow joint. The limb was fully extended during the process of union. She left hospital in 52 days with a limb restored to usefulness and free motion. *** In all these cases the principle of opera- tion was the same—namely, to split the web transversely and convert the transverse wound into a longitudinal one by extension. The dissecting off of hard cicatricial plates and the transplanting of flaps are necessary measures in severe cases. Case iii was a very satisfactory one, and although Case i was subjected to four severe operations, the loss of skiu had been so great that the final result was uot so satisfactory as might be wished.PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 45 2. Operation for icebbed fingers.—Hindu female, cut. 8. Tlie middle and ring fingers of both hands are united by a complete web. Patient presents well marked signs of congenital syphilis. The webs were divided at different periods by an incision on the dorsal aspect of one finger aud the palmar of the other. A flap was taken from the upper part of the web ante- riorly and stitched between the fingers. Repair was slow, owing to the constitutional vice, but eventually a satisfactory result was obtained. 3. Rliinoplastic operation.—Mahomedan male, cut. 20. Patient had undergone operation for necrosis of the upper jaw (see IY. 1. a.) A large hole remained at the root and side of the nose. Flaps were taken from the right cheek to close this aperture. The result was satisfactory, X. Operations not classed.—1. Imper- forate anus.—Male infant, 2 days’ old, closure complete. Rectum found about 1.J inches from the surface, opened freely, brought down and stitched to the skiu. Relief immediate. Re- moved in three days. 2. Nerve splitting and stretching.—Jew, aet. 14. Anaesthetic leprosy. Left ulnar, musculo lbs. 15, spiral aud median nerves much thickened, and the parts supplied by them quite anaesthetic and wasted. The thickened nerves were ex- posed, freely split in the direction of their axis and then stretched. The wounds healed by first intention, but no benefit was conferred by the operation. General Remarks. Mortality.—The death-rate among the oper- ations iucluded in this paper, namely, 6-6 per46 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. cent, of cases treated to the end is unprece- dentedly small. The favourable result is not due to any change in the manner of record, nor any paucity of serious and severe cases as com- pared with previous years ; but may fairly be claimed as a result of improvements in general hygiene and wound management, which have been carried out in recent years. Death causes.—These hardly admit of general review, as they can hardly be arranged in groups. Shock accounts for two deaths, and was due to the combined effects of feeble consti- tution and severe operation. Septiccemia caused three deaths, of which two were urinary cases, and the third, removal of a large tumour of the lower jaw. The only case of fatal septic infection pas- one of erysipelas following an operation for the cure of hernia. The hospital has been singular- ly and happily exempt from this class of dis- eases during the year. Only one fatal case of post operation tetanus (also a hernia operation) occurred. Antiseptics. — The same system of dressing, wouuds has been in use as in the preceding year. This has been fully described in previous com- munications. The spray was not employed in any case during the year, irrigation with car- bolic and bichloride lotions being resorted to in- stead aud with satisfactory result.PRECIS OF OPERATIONS 1 PERFORMED IN THE WARDS OF THE FIRST SURGEON, MEDICAL COLLEGE HOSPITAL, During the year 18SS. By Brigade-Surgeon K. McLEOD, A.M., M.D., F.R.C.S.E., Professor of Surgery, Calcutta Medical College. The following tabular statement and notes are drawn up on precisely the same plan as the seven similar papers which have been published in this journal. The value of these commu- nications is mainly cumulative and statistical, but a good deal of valuable clinical experience will be found here and there to which special attention is drawn. The summaries are pre- pared from careful notes taken by Assistant- Surgeon Akshoy Krishna Shaha, L. M. S., to whom I am greatly indebted for this service, as well as for the intelligent assistance he has given me both in the operating theatre and the wards. Table of Operations performed during 1888. Description of operation. I. Operations on the eye and its Appendages. No. Died. Partial removal of Sarcoma of orbit. ... 1 0 II. Operations on Arteries. For Traumatic aneurism of dorsalis pedis ... 1 0PRECIS OF OPERATIOX3. 2 IIL Operation on Veins. 1 Division and ligature of varicose veins 2 For traumatic venous aneurism Total IV. Operations on Joints. 1 Reduction of dislocation of shoulder-joint 2 Ditto ditto of elbow-joint 3 Forcible extension of stifl knee ... 4 Forcible flexion of stifl elbow 5 Excision of elbow-joint 6 Incision of knee-joint No. Died 2 C 1 ( 3 ( VI. Amputations. ] Primary of forearm ... 2 Primary of thumb ... 3 Primary of fingers ... 4 Primary of foot (Chopart’s) 5 Secondary of arm for tetanus 6 Secondary of arm for gangrene ... 7 Secondary of forearm for gangrene Total A. For Injury. 1 3 4 1 1 1 Total ... 11 B. For Disease. 8 Amputation of the arm for gangrene ... 1 9 Of finger for necrosis ... ... 1 10 Of thigh for disease knee-joint and leg > ... 1 11 Of leg for sarcoma of foot ... ... 1 12 Of leg for diseased foot and ankle ... 1 13 Above ankle (Syma’s) for diseased foot and' ankle ... ... ... ••• 1 Total Total Amputations 6 17 C ( ( ( ( ( Total ... 11 ( V. Operations on Bones. 1 Partial excision of bones for necrosis (seques- trotomy) ... ... ... 7 ( 2 Ditto ditto for compound fracture 3 ( 10 ( 1 i 1 i 3 ( 1 i 1 oPRECI3 OF OPERATIONS 3 VII. Removal of tumours by excision. A. Malignant. No. Died. 1 Cancer a of cheek ... ... • ■ • 1 0 b of tongue ... ... 1 0 c of upper jaw ... • • • 2 0 d of lower jaw •*« 1 0 e of neck 1 14 f of breast • • . 6 0 g of penis ... 4 0 h of penis and scrotum ... . . . 1 0 i of rectum ... ■ •• 1 0 j of thigh „ 1 0 2 Sarcoma a of lower jaw • « • 1 0 b of back • • • 1 0 Total • • • 21 1 D. Non-Malignant. 1 Elephantiasis a of scrotum 17 G b of labia • • • 1 0 c prepuce • • • 1 0 2 Fibroma of pharynx • • • 1 l 3 Naso-pharyngeal fibroma 2 0 4 Fibroma of thigh • • • 1 0 5 Epulis 6 Fatty tumour of mamma • • • 1 0 • • • 1 0 7 Glandular tumour of mamma • • * 1 <r 8 Angioma of scalp ... • •• 1 0 9 Angioma of left breast and anus • • • 1 0 10 Cystic tumour of scalp • • . 1 0 11 Cystic tumour of axilla 1 0 12 Keloid tumour of thigh • • • 1 0 13 Syphilitic condyloma of anus ... • • • 2 0 14 Diseased cervical glands • • • 1 0 15 Ditto axillarv glands • • • 2 1 116 Ditto inguinal glands , , 8 0 17 Piles ... 1 0 Total 45 4 Grand total of tumour • • • 66 5 i * V/ \/£ 3PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 4 VIII. Removal of Calculi. Prostato-vesical by perineal section Vesical by suprapubic lithotomy Ditto by median lithotomy Ditto by litholapaxy Total J i i m if ? 9 IX. Incisions. Laparotomy Tracheotomy For stragulated hernia (with opening sac) For radical cure of hernia Perineal section — a with guide b without guide (Cock’s) For hrematocele For stricture of rectum For atresia oris For large abscesses ... Total X. 1 Plastic of face Reparative operations. 2 Rhinoplasty Total XI. Operations not classed. No. Died. 1 ( 1 Castration 7 4 1 1 3 13 1 ( 47 b Grand Total ... 163 1 I _Opeuations on the eye and its APPENDAGES. 1. Partial removal of Sarcoma of orbit wit extirpation of the globe— Mahomedau child, (B 8. A small nodule appeared on the root ot tli left orbit 4 mouths ago which has rapidly grow ■ i5 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. to be a large tumour. The left eye is protrud- ed and disorganised. Extirpation of the globe was performed and the outer angle of the lids incised to permit of exploration of the tumour. A portion of it which was comparatively loose was removed, but the main mass was found to spring from the orbital plate of the frontal bone and could not be removed. The wound was stitched and the cavity dressed antiseptically. Some constitutional disturbance followed the operation which subsided and the child was re- moved 16 days after the operation. II.—Operations on Arteries. 1. For tra.umnt.ic aneurism of dorsalis pedis. — Hindu male, ait. 22. Dorsum of left foot wounded by a piece of wood twelve days ago. Profuse hajmorrhage ensued, and when it stop- ped, a lump formed, which has been gradually increasing. It was found to be an aneurism. The cavity was laid open after an elastic cord had been applied above the ankle, a quantity of black clot turned out and the dorsalis pedis artery tied above and below. The operation was performed by Surgeon G. Jameson. The wound healed by granulation in 36 days. III.—Operations on veins. I. Division and ligature of varicose veins.— i. European male, ait.. 28. Admitted with large varicose veins of right thigh, ham and leg. On the first occasion two of the veins were isolated and ligatured, and four divided and tied above and below with catgut. The wound healed aseptically in 20 days, and the veins between them underwent contraction. ii. A few varicosities remaining, 3 more points6 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. j' were selected, and the veins divided and tied. The wounds healed in 18 days, and lie left the hospital to all appearance quite cured. %* The plan of dividing and tying is much easier and obviously more radical than isolating and trying. The vein is simply pinched up by an assistant above and below the place of intend- ed division, a cut made with a sharp knife through the fold of skin and vein. The divided ends are then seen, caught with a pressure forceps and ligatured. A couple of catgut stitches are finally placed in the small wound. 2. Operation Jor traumatic venous aneurism. — Hindu male, cet. 20. Sustained several cuts ol right forearm by the bursting of a bottle eight months ago. The wounds bled freely, as well- ing formed at the site of one of them, which has been gradually enlarging. It is ovoidal in shape about the size of a large orange ; situated about the middle of the anterior aspect of the forearm rather to the radial side ; fluctuate , but does not pulsate ; emits dark blood on puncture; No bruit; radial pulsation distinct, but rathei weaker than on the opposite side. An elastic cord having been placed above the elbow the cavity was freely laid open, and found to con tain laminated fibrinous clot, recent sanguineous clot and fluid (venous) blood. It was thorough- ly emptied, and found to possess smooth walls Two orifices were found ou the anterior and outer aspect, which were secured by passing r catgut thread with a needle under them. The cord was then loosened, but no bleeding appear- ed. The wound was stitched, a large drainage tube being inserted in the cavity and dresseo laiPRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 1- antiseptically. It healed iu 21 days, mostly by first intention. %* This is a very rare case—a haematoma caused by injury of a subcutaneous vein, pro- bably the radial, behaving itself after the man- Imer of an arterial aneurism. The treatment adopted was the same as for traumatic (arterial) aneurism, and was quite successful. IV.—Operations on Joints. 1. Reduction of the shoulder-joint.—Maho- medan male, cet. 32. Downward dislocation of eight days’ duration reduced by manipulation. Left hospital same day. 2. Reduction of dislocation of elhotv-joint. i. Hindu male, cet. 29. Broke the inner con- dyle of left humerus five days ago. Elbow-joint much swollen. On subsidence of the swelling in about a week, dislocation backwards of the radius was discovered and rectified. The arm was kept on a rectangular splint for four weeks and then passive movement was resorted to. He was discharged with a useful joint iu 32 days. ii. Mahomedati female, cet. 40. Sustained fracture of lower end of right humerous, with dislocation backwards of ulna 22 days ago. Limb straight. No movement at elbow. The dislocation was reduced under chloroform, and the elbow kept at rest at a right angle till swel- ling subsided. Passive movement was resorted to after a week, and she left with a useful move- able joint in 27 days. iii. European male, cet. 27. Sustained frac- ture of external condyle of right humerus and8 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. dislocation backwards of head of radius by a fall. Reduction was effected under chloroform, and the 1 imb kept in splints for sometime. Passive movement was then resorted to, and a useful joint was eventually obtained. %* In these three cases, fracture atul disloca- tion co-existed ; the principles of treatment con- sisted in — 1st, reduction of both fracture and dislocation; 2nd, fixation until the fracture had undergone union, and 3rd, passive movement as soon as that had taken place. Owing to the fill- ing up of the olecranon ami coronoid fosste with callus, the range of flexion and extension is apt to be impaired in these cases, sometimes per- manently. Douching, massage and passive movement are the best, means of treatment. 3. Forcible extension of stiff knee-joint.— i. Hindu female, cet 16. Suffered from arthri- tis of right knee-joint in consequence of fever. Joint swollen,somewhat tender, patella fixed, leg. remains at an angle of about 150° with thigh. The joint was partially straightened under chloroform, and the process of stretching was Continued by means of a McIntyre splint. The limb was then put up in a starch bandage, and patient encouraged to use it. She was under treatment for 36 days, and left with a stiff knee-joint but straight limb. ii. Hindu male, cet. 30. Suffered from gonorrhoeal arthritis eight months ago. Right knee-joint stiff and swollen, and leg fixed at an angle of 120°. Treatment as in the previous case. Left hospital with a straight and useful limb in 77 days. iii. Hindu male, at. 25. Admitted with pop-9 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. leteal abscess and stiff left knee-joint, the leg being fixed at a right angle. The abscess was cured in 49 days, and then the leg was stretched. A fear occurred across the back during the pro- cess of stretching. This healed kindly, and he left hospital with a straight useful limb after 67 days’ further treatment. iv. Hindu female, cet. 30. Kuee-joint fixed at an angle of 125°, in consequence of ati attack of rheumatic arthritis of four months’ duration, patella immovable. The joint was stretched tinder chloroform, put on a McIntyre splint for 18 days, and then in a gum and chalk bandage. She left hospital with a useful limb in 81 days. 4. Forcible flexing of stiff elboio joint.— Hindu female, cet. 45. Right elbow-joint stiffen- ed in a straight position, and bones of forearm partially dislocated backwards. Forcible flexion was made under chloroform. The olecranon process gave way during the operation. The joint was fixed at a right tingle till the pain and swelling subsided, and passive movement then resorted to. She left hospital with a useful limb after 9 days’ treatment. 5. Excision of the elbow joint.—East Indian male, cet. 6. Admitted with an open elbow-joint consequent oil injury sustained two months pre- viously. The joint was resected by Surgeon G. Jameson. The wound healed mostly by granu- lation, and he left hospital 19 days after the operation with a movable joint. 6. Incision of the knee-joint.—Hindu male, cet. 70. Admitted with his knee-joint distended with pus consequent on suppurative synovitis occurring during fever. An iucision was made10 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. iff h iuto the joint by Surgeon G-. Jameson. A large quantity of pus was evacuated, the joint cavity washed out with perchloride of mercury lotiou ( 1 in 2,000), and a drainage tube inserted. The tube was gradually shortened, and he left hospi- tal in 26 days with a healthy useful joint. Y. Operations on Bones. 1. Partial excision for necrosis (seqvestrotomy). (a) Lower jaw.—i. Hindu male, ait. 30. Ne- crosis of lower jaw, resulting from an injury sustained five months ago. The sinus and cloaca, were enlarged, and a piece of bone extracted. The wound healed by granulation in 28 days. ii. Hindu male, ait. 45. Similar case. Left hospital in four days with a granulating wound. (b) Ulna.—Necrosis of left ulna of two months’ duration. Sequestrum removed and cavity scraped out by gauge and osteotrite. Wound healed by granulation in 88 days. (c) Femur.—East Indian male, ait. 30. Sinus of upper and back part of right thigh leading, to bare and loose bone, consequent on abscess due to injury sustained two months ago. Small sequestrum removed and cavity laid open. Left hospital with a granulating wound, which has since healed, in 11 days. (d) Tibia.—i. Hindu male, cet. 38. Got a periosteal abscess of right tibia during fever one- ! and-a-half years ago. There are several sinuses j leading to dead bone. Several sequestra were ;; removed, after dividing the soft parts and enlarg- ing the cloacae. The cavity was cleaned by ai osteotrite. The wound healed by grauulatioL tl] in 69 days. ii, European male, ait. 13. UnderwentPEECIS OP OPERATIONS. 11 severe operation for necrosis of left tibia in 1886 (see precis for that year IY 1. h. iv). Two sinuses remained five months after it, tlirougti which dead done could be detected. These were laid freely open and several sequestra and much debris removed. He still remains in hospital ; the wounds having not yet healed. iii. Hindu male, cet. 20. Acute necrosis of left tibia, consequent on an attack ot fever a year ago. The greater part of the shaft of the bone had died, and two long incisions were neces- sary for exposure and removal of the fragments. He remained in hospital 152 days, aud was finally discharged with a souud leg. The removal of flabby granulations and debris by means of the gouge, sharp spoon and osteotrite was fount! necessary in most of these cases. Thoroughly cleaning the cavity containing the sequestra in this manner greatly accelerates subsequent repair, and most frequently, in combination with antiseptic irrigation, renders the wound aseptic. The application of the elastic cord in these cases minimises loss of blood and gives a good view •of the parts during operation. It is a good plan to stuff the wound and bandage the part before removal of the cord. On removing 'these provisional dressings in about a quarter •of an hour, the oozing is generally slight and easily stopped. 2. Partial excision of bones for compound fracture.—i. Mahomedan male, cet. 13. Com- pound fracture of lower end of right humerus and simple fracture of radius and ulna caused by a fall off a tree. The upper fragment of the12 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. humerus protended through the wound, and about an inch of it had to be sewn off to permit of reduction. The wound putrified and inflamed, spreading cellulitis, and severe constitutional disturbance ensuing. An abscess formed in front of the shoulder joint which had to be opened. After 70 days’ treatment a satisfactory cure was obtained. ii. East Indian male, cet. 31. Fell of! the terrace of a house and sustained com- pound fracture of both bones of left fore- arm at the middle, and a simple commi- nuted fracture lower down. The ends of the bones were resected, and several loose frag- ments removed. The wound was carefully washed out with perchloride lotion, and the limb put upon a splint. Syptoms of tetanus set iti five days after the accident; amputation of the arm was performed next day—(see VI. 5 below) which failed to stay the progress of the disease. iii. Hindu male, cet. 11. Sustained compounc fracture of both bones of left forearm above the wrist, by a fall off a mango tree, twr months ago. A sinus leads to bare bone at the lower end of the radius; there is thickening! of the ulna and much deformity. A straight incision was made over the radial border of tin wrist and several fragments of dead bone ex traded. A straight incision was also made oi the opposite side, through which a wedge o ulna was removed. The deformity was thei rectified, the wounds were dressed antiseptically and the arm put up in splints. A satisfactory result was obtained in 43 days.PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 13 VI.—Amputations. A.—Amputations for Injury. 1. Primary amputation of forearm. — Hindu male, ait. 12. Compound comminuted fracture of left forearm, with extensive laceration of soft parts. Machine accident. General health good. Amputation by modified circular method below the elbow-joint. Healed by first intention. Discharged in So days. 2. Primary amputation of thumb.—Hindu male, cet. 30. Thumb crushed in a jute mill. Removed together with head of metacarpal bone. Wound healed in 22 days. 3. Primary amputations of fingers.—i. Eu- ropean sailor, cet. 24. Clutched the blade of a knife in his left hand, and got severely cut across the middle of the middle ring and little fingers. Sustained several other severe wounds. The first interphalangeal joint of the little finger having been laid open, the digit was removed at the metacarpo-phalatigeal joint. The flexor sheath of the middle and ring fingers having been laid open and both flexor tendons divided, the sheaths were slit up and the tendons stitched together with catgut. The fingers were kept straight by splints. The wounds remained asceptic, but the tendons sloughed and parted. They contracted adhe- sions lower down than they would have done without operation and a useful hand resulted. Some degree of flexion and grasping power reinaiued. Was detained in hospital 40 days. ii. Hindu male, oet. 27. All the fingers of left hand crushed in a mill. The middle and ring fingers had to be.removed at the metacarpo-PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 14 phalangeal joints. The other two were badly lacerated, but were preserved and the thumb was not injured. Recovered with a useful hand in 29 days. iii. Mahomedan male, out. 30. Right ring finger crushed by a machine. It was amputated Wound healed in 14 days. 4 Primary partial amputation of the foni (Choparfs).— Severe incised wound of right foot, dividing it across with exception of the skin of the sole. Amputation was performet tbrougli the intertarsal joint and a long fiat) taken from the sole. This partially sloughed, but a good stump resulted, the wound healing by granulation. Remained in hospital 33 days. There was some pulling upwards and backwards of the heel, but be would not submit to tenotomy. 5. Secondary amputation of the arm for trau- matic tetanus.—East Indian male, at. 31 Sustained a compound comminuted fracture of the forearm at its upper third and simple frac- ture of the lower third by a fall from a second storey. Symptoms of tetanus set in while he was under treatment in hospital six days after re-1 ceipt of the injury. Removal of tlie injured parts was considered advisable, and amputation through the middle of the arm was performed The disease pursued an acute course, notwith- standing the free administration of chloral hydrate and bromide of potassium ; the tempera- ture rose, the pulse became quick and feeble, tfi and he died of exhaustion 36 hours after the operation. 6. Secondary amputation of the arm for trau- matic gangrene.—\. Hindu male, (Bt. 30. Sus- ■ i! Si15 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. taiiied a compound fracture of the right fore- arm nine days before admission by the passage of a cart wheel over the limb. The whole arm was oedematous and the wound gangre- nous. He had considerable constitutional dis- turbance. Both local and general conditions getting worse, the arm was amputated at the middle by the modified flap method. He con- tinued to suffer from fever and symptoms of septicaemia for a fortnight. The stitches gave way and the bone protruded ; the cavity of the wound was eventually closed by granulations, which covered the end of the bone and drew the flaps together. He left hospital 34 days after operation, with a good and sound stump. ii. Mahomedan female, cet. 60. Admitted with a long lacerated wound of the outer side of right arm and forearm caused by a carriage accident. She was a very old thin, feeble woman, and gangrene set in, necessitating ampu- tation of the arm at its lower third. This was done by the circular method. She remained low and delirious for some days, and the wound, which remained aseptic, healed very slowly. She was discharged 49 days after operation. 7. Secondary amputation of the forearm for traumatic gangrene.—-i. Mahomedan male,oe£. 40. Fell off a mangoe tree from a height of 25 feet, 15 days before admission; sustained a compound comminuted fracture of the forearm. The bones are bare and soft parts gangrenous. Amputation was performed by Surgeon Gr. Jameson below the elbow by modified circular method. The result was satisfactory. He was discharged 28 days alter the operation.16 PRECIS OP OPEHATIOKS. ii. Native Christian male, cet. 40. Fore-; arm crunched by a tiger seven days ago. Part* gangrenous. Amputation was performed at the upper third by the modified circular method. The flaps became oedema to us and wound putrid ; and considerable constitutional disturbance existed during the first week. It became neoes-i sary to remove the stitches, and treat for granu-t lation, which slowly filled the wound cavity ant brought the flaps together. He remained 71 days in hospital. B.—Amputations for Disease. 8. Amputation of the arm for gangrene. Mahomedan male, cet. 45. Admitted with gan grene of right hand and forearm, resulting iron a willow of the thumb. Amputation was per- formed just above the elbow, the humerus beinc sawn through the condyles. The wound h.ealet mostly by first intention, and he was dischargee in 22 days. 9. Amputation of finger for necrosis.—Ma homedan male, ait. 50. Was bitten in the ligli ring finger by a woman, 2^ months ago. Finge: disorganized by resulting inflammation, and at, unhealthy sinus extending into the palm. Tin finger was removed at the metacarpo-phalan geal point, and the sinus slit up and scraped Repair by granulation took place in 38 days the final result being very satisfactory. 10. Amputation of thigh (lower third) fo diseased knee and leg.—Hindu male, cet. 40. Ad mitted with stiff knee and ankle; numerou sinuses of leg leading to hare hone aud ope suppurated and disorganized knee joint. Ain putatiou was performed at the lower third b |bf ifm Hill lieu DiliPEECIS OP OPERATIONS. 17 long anterior and short posterior flaps The ■wound remained aseptic and healed by first intention. A small phlegmon formed in the anterior flap wliich required opening. He was discharged 32 days after the operation. 11. Amputation of leg for sarcoma of foot.— Hindu male, cet. 38. Admitted with a fungating tumour of dorsum of left, foot of eight years’ growth. It was almost fixed and the surround- ing skin was thickened and dusky. Amputation was performed above the ankle by the modified circular plan. The wound remained aseptic, and healed by first intention. Discharged in 42 days. 12. Amputation of the leg for diseased foot and ankle.—Hindu male, cet.. 35. Foot and ankle riddled with sinuses leading to carious bone; general health indifferent. Disease of five mouths’ duration. Amputation performed by modified circular method at lower third of leg. Lips of wound healed by first intention, but the cavity was very slowly filled up, two sinuses at the corner remaining open. He was eventually dis- charged 67 days after operation, with a sound stump and able to sustain the weight of his body on a hollow cylindrical boot. 13. Amputation above the ankle (Syme’s) for diseased foot and ankle-joint.—Hindu male, cet. i 18. Admitted with several sinuses leading to bare bone, ankle-joint undergoing disorganization. Syme’s amputation performed in the usual manner. An opening made in the heel flap for drainage. The lips of the wound healed by first intention, but the drainage openings closed very slowly. He was detained in hospital for 174 days, and eventually left with a sound callous stump.18 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. V- The only circumstance demanding 11 special remark connected with these amputa i sious is the small death-rate. In the only fata case, death was due to tetanus which the re moval of the injured part failed to modify am remove. In many of the cases the condition were by no means favourable for success. VII.—Removal of tumours (by excision) A. Malignant. 1. (a.) Cancer of Cheek (epi theliomti).—Hindu male, cet. 45. Commence' about 3^ months ago as a nodule on the insidii of the left cheek. It is now a tuberculate' sloughy ulcer about two inches long and an inc broad. Sub-maxillary lymphatic glands eu larged. A straight incision was made from tin angle of the mouth to the ear, and the growti dissected out by scissors, including a libera margin of subjacent and surrounding health tissue. A vertical incision was made from th middle of the transverse cut, and the enlarge j sub-maxillary glands removed through it. Th j1 wound was then carefully stitched, and a drain ' age tube inserted through its lower angle, healed by first intention in eight days. Patien was retained for 12 days longer to permit ofocca sional application of the screw gag, in orde to prevent closure of the mouth. (5.) Epithelioma of the Tongue.—Hind male, cet. 38. Disease of six months’ duration involves the anterior 2-3rds of the tongue, whic is indurated and ulcerated. A straight iucisio was made from -the symphysis pubis to th centre of the body of the hyoid bone. The ante rior bellies of the digastric were separated, anPRECIS OP OPERATIONS, 19 lie tendonous rsiplie of tlie mylo-hyoid divided. .'Iit-genio-hycid muscles werethenseparated, and she finger carried upwards and backwards on each ide between them and the geuio-hyo-glossi which vere isolated, and their genial attachment nipped across by scissors. The mucous mem- irane of the'floor of the mouth was then divid- ed by scissors as far back as the fauces, and the ihatn of an ecraseur introduced through the sub- neutal wound, and applied to the root of the ongue just in front of the epiglottis. The whole ongue was removed with very little loss of blood iy slowly tightening the chain. A large drain- cre tube was finallv introduced through the ub-mental wound. Patient was fed with a unnel and tube introduced through the nostril, .nd then through the mouth for ten days. The pound healed in 21 days, and he left hospital 29 ays after the operation with no sign of re- urrence; able to feed comfortably and speak in- lelligibly. *m* I have removed the whole and half of he tongue in several other cases by the method lescribeu. The organ is practically isolated by lissection and separation, and the mucous mem- krane of the mouth detached as far back as te -fauces before any blood can enter the nouth. The tongue cau be very completely xtirpated by this method. The sub-mental ivound serves for drainage and prevents lodg- ment of putrid material in the cavity of the blmtli or entry of the same into the stomach or Mugs. There was little or no constitutional dis- turbance in this case. (c.) Cancer of Upper Jaw.—i. fiiudu male.PEECIS OF OPERATIONS. 20 cet.' 35. Disease of two years’ duration. Th tumour protrudes through the right nostri which is blocked. The right upper maxilla involved. It was removed in the usual way Fergussou’s incision being employed. Th wound healed by first intention except below th inner angle of the eye where some suspicion skin was re’moved. A small bit of bone (floo of orbit) came through this, and a flap ha to be taken from the cheek to close the apertun He was discharged in 63 days with the woun quite healed, and no sign of recurrence of th tumour. Mahomedan male, cet. 45. Malignar it. tumour of left upper jaw of two years’ duratio consequent on injury ; skin not implicate! The whole jaw was removed in the usual way The wound healed by first intention. The le eye got inflamed and a small ulcer formed on tl cornea which eventually, healed. He w; furnished with an artificial palate, and le hospital 23 days after operation. (id.) Cancer of the lower jaw and clieeh.- Hiudu male, cet. 32. Thediaease commenced eigl months ago as a malignant epulis of left lower jtu There is now a craterifnrm ulcer -of left clo t I reaching the bone, and surrounded by a largejia of infiltration. There is a nodule in front the right masse.ter and the sub-maxillary lye phatio glands on both sides are enlarged at indurated. A very extensive operation w required to remove the diseased parts. An iiu sion was made from the left angle of the mou upwards and backwards to the ear. The low lip was bisected down to the chin, and ti •:r 'ij it tie lei k21 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. ncision then curried to the angle of the right aw. A straight' cut was made in front of the eft ear half way down the. neck, and an iblique incision from the end of this across the liyroid cartilage to the right angle* of the lower aw. This bone was divided at this spot and tn the left side high up through the ramus. The soft parts included by these incisions were dissected off deeply, - the tongue being held forwards and vessels secured by pressure forceps as divided and afterwards tied. The' diseased ymphatic glands were removed ; large flaps tvere taken from the neck and what remained if the left cheek to fill up the gap and the mouth widened by an incision into the right jheek. The operation was followed by con- siderable shock, and that by smart reaction. He was fed by euemata for two days, and then by ube through the mouth. The wound healed mostly by first intention, and he was able to eave hospital iu a month, with a few sinuses -emaining at the angles of the flaps. He las beeu seeu repeatedly since then. There is no sign of recurrence (four months after opera- ion). It became necessary to remove the teeth nf the left side, because they caused ulcen*- ion of the right flap. His general health has improved since the operation. He talks intelli- gibly, and is able to swallow liquid and soft solids. *** This was a very extensive and formid- able operation. The patient, a medical man, was made fully aware of its nature and risk, and urged its performance. Considerable deformity Df face has resulted, but the present condition isPRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 22 A comparatively comfortable, and life has been prc longed, to what extent it. is impossible to predict (e.) Larye Cancerous Tumour of the Necli.- Mahomedan male, cet.. 25. This was a very larg. tumo.ur of nihe years’ growth, consisting of tw masses, one the smaller below the chin, an right side of the jaw (submaxillary triangle^ mid the other over and below the paroti ij region. The skin was adherent, partly oedema tons and ulcerated in one place. The interic ;i of the tumour was broken up into several cyst- it like cavities. It moved freely on subjacei tt tissues. It was removed in two portions. Tl anterior part was first dissected out and the iti the posterior. The dissection was difficult an deep, and the bleeding very considerable, no |i withstanding prompt use of pressure force) The removal of the posterior part implie it partial ablation of the parotid gland and ej posureof the sheath of the vessels. A hire gland was taken from under the sterno-mastoi and several others were discovered deep in tl neck, which were not interfered with, being le for future operation, if patient survived. Tl wound was stitched, drainage tubes inserted, an an antiseptic dressing applied. Patient sank ii to a state of collapse twice during the operatio and hypodermic injection of ether had to 1 resorted to. He was profoundly low afti operation. Stimulants warmth and other r storatives were used ; some signs of reaefk were observed, but he sank 3^ hours after con pletion of the operation. Microscopic examiu tion showed the structure of the tumour to 1 cancerous.23 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. | (f. ) Cancer of the Mamma.-^i. Hindu, cet. 50. Scirrlius of three years’ duration ; ulcerated ami sloughy; axillary glands affected. The diseased ffland was removed with a large area of diseased and doubtful skin. The axilla was thoroughly cleared of glands, and flaps were taken from the 3ide of the chest to fill up the large gap left Eiy removal of the tumour. The wound lealed partly by first intention and partly by granulation. There was little constitutional disturbance, and she left hospital apparently well, in 41 days. ii. East Indian, cet. 42. Scirrlius of five weeks’ duration ; very painful and involving the whole of the left breast. Axillary glands also affected. The mamma was entirely removed and axilla emptied of its glands. The edges of Ithe wound came together and healed by first in- tention. Some suppuration took place in the track of a metallic stitch, and caused a little gapiug of the centre. This delayed recovery and she was detained 41 days in hospital. iii. Hindu, cet. 60. Scirrlius of left breast and axillary glands of four months’ duration. Breast and glands were removed, and the wound mealed mostly by first iuteution. Discharged 41 days after operation. iv. Hindu, cet. 45. A very hard scirrlius ■of right mamma and axillary glauds of eight months’ duration. Th® breast was removed and laxilla cleared out by Surgeon Jameson. The •operation was followed by considerable depres- sion, but she rallied and made a good recovery iiu 18 days ; the wound healing by first intention, v. East Indian, cet. 47. Recurrent cancerPRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 24 of left breast. The mamma had beeu removed 24 mouths previously. About a month ago two lumps appeared, one on each side of the scar, axillary glands diseased. The diseased mass was removed by Surgeon Jameson including a suspicious portion of the pectoral is major and the axilla emptied of glands; the wound healed slowly in about a mouth. vi. Same subject. Some nodules made their appearance in and around the cicatrix, and were removed 67 days after the previous operation. The wound healed kindly, and she was discharg- ed apparently well 41 days after this operation. (g.) Cancer of the Penis.—i. Hindu male,. cet. 40. Disease of one year’s duration, implicat- ing pupuce and glans ; inguinal glands on both sides enlarged. Penis amputated by Hilton’s method, the corpus spongiosum being left about ^th inch longer than the cavernosa. The fibrous septum and capsule of the latter were stitched together with catgut. The inguinal glands were extirpated. Recovered in 37 days. ii. Hindu male, cet 50. Disease of one year’s duration. Penis removed at the root as in last case. Recovered in 31 days. iii. Hindu male, cet. 24. Phagedsenic ulcei with indurated floor following venereal sore con- tracted six months ago and extensively destroy- ing the penis. The diseased parts were removed and recovery took place in 143 days, cicatrica- tion being delayed by recurrence of unhealthj action in the soi'e. iv. Hindu male, cet. 50. Disease of two years duration. Penis amputated at the root as it case i. Recovered in 28 days.• PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 25 (h.) Cancer of the Penis and Scrotum.—Hindu male, at. 45. Disease of years’ duration, implicated the whole of the penis, the scrotum : and testes. The scrotum was first bisected in order to ascertain the state of the corpus spongio- sum and testes. The incision was carried back to within half-an-inch of the anus. The corpus spongiosum was dissected out and held back. A circular sweep was then made at the root of the scrotum. The cords were tied, and both testes which were found to be infiltrated were re- moved with the scrotum. The peuis was extir- pated by scraping the crura off the rami of the pubes. The corpus spongiosum was finally stitched in the posterior angle of wound. Patient suffered from severe shock, but rallied and made a good recovery in 57 days ; the wound healing by granulatiou ; the urethra was kept .patent by frequently passing a catheter. %* This was a very severe operation, and might more fitly be called extirpation than amputation of the penis. The only other oper- ation of equal severity, which I have performed, died of shock in 14 hours. (See Precis for 1887.) i. Cancel of the Rectum.—Hindu male,ce£ 45. The disease surrounded the anus and extended outwards for about half-an-inch. A circular inci- sion was made outside of the diseased area, and the mass.removed by means of a curved Bcissors. The bleeding which was very free was controlled by the use of pressure forceps.. Ten ■ points were tied. The edges of the skin and mucous membrane of the rectum were brought together by a few catgut sutures. The wouud26 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. * healed by granulation in '61 days. No recur- rence had taken place when he left hospital. 0".) Cancer of the Thigh.—East Indian female at. 65. A cauliflower growth on the inside of thigh two inches in diameter, of six mouths duration, removed by Surgeon Jameson, to- gether with a liberal margin of surrounding tissue. Recovered in IS days. 2. a. Osteo-sarcoma of the lower jaw.— Hindu male, cep 35. A globular tumour of left side of lower jaw of one year’s duration. Ulcera- ted internally. The jaw was divided at the sym- physis and disarticulated. The wound healed mostly by first intention. Discharged in 18 days. The tumour was found to be an osteo-sar- coma originating from the bone and commenc- ing to soften in places. b. Sarcoma of the back.—European male, at. 53. A tumour of the back about the size of ai hen’s egg which proved to be a sarcoma of nine mouths’ duratiop removed by incision. Wound healed by first iuteution. Patient discharged iu 16 days. B. Non-Malignant Tumours. 1. a. Elephantiasis of the Scrotum.—i. Bur- mese, cet. 32. Ten years’duration. History of chancre and bubo aud periodic fever. Removed in the usual manner. Wound granulated asep-- tically in 133 days. Weighed 18 lbs. 12 oz. ii. East Indian, at. 40. Five years’ duration. History of syphilis and periodic lever. Usual operation. Tunicas adherent. Discharged in 82 days. Weighed 1 lb. 6 oz. iii. Hindu, at. 30. One and a half year’s duration. History of periodical lever. Usual Ik- T1 h «P la P ai re If: al fu la 0| \ 01 r n 1! ri la it P ii ai a 11 K S I: r ii aPRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 27 operation. Right tunica contained 8 <>z. of fluid. Recovered in 79 days.. Weighed 1 lb. 12 oz. iv. Hindu, at. 30. One year’s duration. Double hydrocele. Usual operation. It was followed by great constitutional disturbance. The wound putrefied ; blood poisoning ensued. Death bv exhaustion occurred 20 days after the operation. Tumour weighed 1 lb. 6 oz. v. Mahomedan, cet. 45. Admitted with a large scrotal tumour of 12 years’ growth ; its transverse circumference was 46 inches and antero-posterior 44 inches. When he stood it reached to within 6 inches of the ground. There was a history of gonorrhoea and syphilis, and about 25 years ano he was tapped and injected for hydrocele. Has been suffering from fever lately ; is weak, and emaciated, arid a confirmed opium eater. Operation was tit first declined owing to the man’s exceedingly feeble cachetic condition, but a small orifice appeared on the right scrotum through which in two days about 15 lbs. of grumous foetid pus escaped, and as the right half of the tumour was found to be an im- mense abscess cavity, it was thought best to re- move the whole mass. The usual operation was performed, but the right testicle was removed with the mass, the left being secured in a pocket as usual. About 15 lbs. of pus came out of the abscess cavity, and a large haematocele with very thick walls was found on the right side, outside of which but not communicating with it the abscess had formed. The man was low after operation, but made a good recovery in 71 days. The mass which was removed weighed 31 lbs., and the pus must have weighed at least 30 lbs. iu addition.28 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. VI. Hindu, cet. 40. Four years’ duration. Studded with tubercles exuding lympliy fluid. Operation as usual. Double hydrocele. Dis- charged in 59 days. Tumour weighed 2 lbs. vii. Hindu, cet. 30. One year’s duration. Right hydrocele. Usual operatiou. Discharged in 52 days. Weighed 1 lb. 13 oz. viii. Mahometan, cet. 30, One year’s dui’a- tion. Usual operation. Recovered iu 84 days. Tumour weighed 4 lbs. 1 oz. ix. Mahomedan, cet. 30. Six years’duration. Periodic fever. Right hydrocele. Usual opera- tiou. Discharged iu 53 days. Weighed 4 lbs. x. Hindu, cet. 50. One year’s duration. Usual operation. Recovered iu 36 days. Small tumour weighing 14 oz. xi. Hindu, cet. 40. Two years’ duration. Periodic fever. Right hydrocele. Discharged in 41 days. Weighed 3 lbs. 1 oz. xii. Hiudu, Cet. 35. Large double hydro- cele of ten years’duration covered with hypertro- phied skin. Scrotal skiu removed. Penis not decorticated. Tunicae opened and pared off; con- tained 64 oz. of fluid. The scrotal skin weighed 12 oz. Operation completed as in cases of scrotal tumour. Recovered in 39 days. ' xiii. Hindu, cet. 30. Eight years’ duration. Periodic fever. Double hydrocele. Usual operation. Left testicle removed ou account of accidental division of globus minor in dissecting off a very thick tunica. Recovered iu 53 days. Tumour weighed 7 lbs. xiv. Hindu, cet. 35. Four years’ duration. Usual operation. Discharged iu 47 days. Weighed 16 lbs. 6 oz. u H D !29 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. ?v. Hindu, at. 35. Large tumour of seven years’ duration in a very fat man who had been addicted to alcohol and now consumed about 180 grains of opium daily. History of period- ic fever and double hydrocele. Operation per formed in the usual way. Recovered in 66 days. Weighed 24 lbs. xvi. Hindu, at. 35. Ten years’ duration. History of periodic fever. . Usual operation. Discharged in 71 days. Weighed 40 lbs.- 10 oz. xvii. Hindu, at. 20. Two years’ duration. Periodic fever. Usual operation. Recovered in 57 days. Weighed 2 lbs. The operation perfornjed in these cases was thesameinevery particular asl have describ- ed in previous papers. Pockets were invariably duo1 for the accommodation of the testes, and the remaining skin of the tumour stitched over them. Careful irrigation with bichloride lotion was carried out in every case, and the deep dressing (boracic gauze sprinkled with iodoform) left on for ten or twelve days, the outer dress- ing (bichloride gauze) being changed as often as it was soaked. The mortality in this series of cases 1 in 17 or. 5-8 per cent, is very mo- derate. Case v is tv very remarkabje one. In this and in Case xiii, removal of one testis was found necessary. (b.) Elephantiasis of the labia.—Hindu, at. 30. The labia majora were removed about two years ago, and during the last 11 months <the minora have begun to swell; they are about the size of a hen’s egg. They were removed at their base, and patient left hospital in eight days with the wouuds almost healed.' PRECIS OP OPERATIONS 30 (c.) Elephantiasis of the prepuce.—East In- dian, at. 30. Had phimosis two years’ ago for which the prepuce was slit. It lias swelled to a great size. The swollen part was removed bv dissection, and the wound stitched. It healed by first intention in i2 days. 2. Fibroma of the pharynx.—Hindu, cet. 35. Began to suffer from difficulty in deglutition and respiration three years ago, and about that time discovered a lump growing deep in the throat. A smooth globular mass can be felt behind the epiglottis. Preliminary tracheo- tomy was performed, and the pharynx entered from the left si^le by pharyngotomy. The tumour was turned out through. the wound and removed by eeraseur. .t was globular attached by a broad base to the left arvteno- epiglottidean fold, and was found by the micros- cope to be a simple fibroma. The tracheotomy tube was removed on the 3rd day. He was doing well till the evening of the 4th day when, after coughing, haemorrhage occurred from the stump. It was stopped, but recurred after vomiting, and be died next morning of exhaus- tion. This very interesting case was reported at length in the Indian Medical Gazette, Vul. XXlil, page 377. 3. Naso-pharynyenl polypus.—i. Hindu male, at. 20. Has a firm polypoid tumour in the right nasal fossa presenting at the nostril and behind the soft palate and uvula. The nostril was slit, a Bellocq’s cannula passed into the mouth carrying a stout silken thread by which the chain of an eeraseur was pulled intoPRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 31 tlie pharynx and passed round the fundus of the tumour. The most of it was removed by this means, and the remainder avulsed by strong (necrosis) forceps. The bleeding was free, but stopped by plugs of lint, the wound was very carefully stitched with horse-hair and healed by first intention. He was discharged in eight days. ii. Hindu male, cet. 23. Similar case, simi- larly dealt with. Made a good recovery in eight days. The growth in this case was attached to the root of the pharynx and inner wall of the right posterior naris. 4. Fibroma of the thigh.—Jewish boy, at. 3. A very large congenital tumour of the upper and back part of the right thigh. An elastic cord was passed round the limb above the growth, which was removed without much loss of blood. The tumour was found to spring from the periosteum of the femur below the trochanter major. The wound which was very large and deep unfortunately suppurated, and healed mostly by granulation in about two months. 5. E/iulis.—Hindu male, cet. 25. A hard tumour about the size of a walnut growing during the past year between the molar and bicuspid teeth of right side which are decayed. The teeth were extracted, and the growth rooted out by chisel and scalpel. He left the hospital two days after operation. 6. Fatty tumour of breast.— Native Christian female, cet. 14. Simple tumour situated out- side of nipple of right breast of eight months’ duration. It was removed by incision and enu-PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 32 ; was re laps wer< ' cleation by Surgeon Jameson. Discharged 25 days. The growth was found to be a lipoma 7. Glandular tumour of breast.—Hindi female, cet. 45. Tumour of right breast t ten years’ duration. About a month ago the ski over it gave way, and an excavated ulcer formed Health indifferent. The whole mass moved. It weighed 2 lbs. 2 oz. F taken from the neighbourhood to fill up the ga[ The case did well for four days. Pneumouit then set in and proved fatal in seven days. 8. Angioma of sculp.—Mahomedan male, cet 50. Vascular tumour of scalp about the siz' of an orange of 20 years’ duration. Recentb the surface has become excoriated. The growtl was removed by excision, the vessels beinj secured by pressure forceps, as they were divid ed and then ligatured. The cavity healei slowly by granulation. He was detained in hos pital 33 days. 9. Venous ungionia of left breast and arm. - Hindu male, cet. tl\. Congenital. Thjs was growth over the left pectoralis major about th size of a hen’s egg from which repeated and se vere liEemorrhages had taken place. The left arm forearm and hand were greatly swollen b dilatations of the superficial and deep veins The tumour of the breast was excised after it base had been carefully tied in sections wit strong catgut. The ligatured tissues sloughed and the wound healed slowly by granulatior Thrombosis and suppuratiou took place in th venous dilatations of the arm, forearm and banc and numerous openings had to be made t evacuate the matter. These eventually closedS3 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. and the angioma was thus cured. A secondary abscess formed in aud arouud the right knee joint, requiring free opening and drainage. While these events were taking place,, the boy suffer- ed from a severe and intractable type of fever with head symptoms aud dysentery. He even- tually made an excellent recovery. 10. Cystic tumour of scalp.—Mahomedan male, cet. 35. A large sebaceous cyst pf scalp, about the size of an orange, treated by traus- fixiou and avulsion of the cyst wall. Wound lealed in 26 days. 11. Cystic tumour of axilla.—Hindu male, rxt. 20. A raultilocular cystic tumour bulging out of the right armpit; skin stretched,but not infiltrated or adherent; tumour moved freely in the cavity of the axilla. It was excised ; a deep prolongation between the subscapularis and serratus magnus gave trouble. The subscapular artery was divided, and in securing it with pressure forceps the musculo-spiral nerve was accidentally included. The wound healed by first nteution, but he had wrist drop and impaired sensation over radial area. These conditions were undergoing improvement when he left hos- pital 31 days after operation. tl 2. Keloid, tumour of thigh. — Mahomedan nale, at. 4'«. Sustained a burn on the inner iide of left knee 20 years ago; a growth was brined on the site of the burn about the size of tin orange, which has begun to ulcerate. It wag excised by Surgeon Jameson, the wound Mealing by granulation in 41 days. 13. Syphilitic condyloma of rectum.—The growths in these two cases were situated on the 3PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 34 anal verge and were removed by scissors; stricture of the rectum being in one of them a tbe same time incised backwards. Both cases die well. 14. Removal of diseased axillary glands.—i East Indian male, cet 17. Several sinuses of necl and axilla- leading to diseased glands. Tli glands of the left armpit, which were caseatec and suppurating, were extirpated by finger am director. He remained iu hospital seven mouth and died of phthisis. . ii. Mahomedan male, cet. 8. Sinuses of rigli side of neck and armpit leading to. disease' glands. He had fever three months ago, am this was followed by the glandular swelling* The right axilla was cleared of all its glands Those which had not already undergone dis organization consisted simply of a capsule fille with soft caseous material. He remains in hos pital. His general health has improved, bi the sinuses have not closed. • 15. Removal of diseased cervical glonds.- Eastlndiau female,cet.. 35. Admitted with severs -i sinuses on the left side of the neck leading diseased glands. The sinuses were slit up and tl glands removed by finger and director. Tl wounds were treated for resulting grauulatio til Ml wt 111! and healed in 31 days. 16. Removal of diseased inguinal glands.— East Indian male, cet. 42. Sinuses of left groi leading to a mass of diseased glands wliic were removed en masse. The wound heale by granulation in' 68 days. ii. East Indian male, cet. 30. Similar cas .Recovered in 60 days. •r ' :.u j it 1 Jiir si :'Ul ; "n35 PEECXS OF OPERATIONS. iii. East Indian male, cut. 24. Similar case. Recovered in 46 days. iv. Hindu male, cut. 30. Similar case of venereal origin. Discharged well in 53 days. v. East Indian male, cet 17. Enlarged mass of elands in right inguinal region. History of o-ouorrhoea. Glands exposed by incision and re- moved. Discharged in 17 days. vi. Hindu male, at. 16. Both groins swollen ; glands indurated and enlarged ; extirpated. Re- covered in 47 days. vii. Hindu male, at. 22. Sinuses of right groins and thigh leading to enlarged and indurat- ed elands. The sinuses were enlarged and the glands enucleated. Recovered in 29 days. viii. East Indian male, at. 30. Was treated for bubo several mouths ago which was opened but refused to heal. Glands of the groins enlarged. The sinus was laid open and glands removed. Recovered in 59 days. %* Gases of this sort are very common in |Calcutta. The inguinal glands of the one or [•both sides get enlarged from injury or irritation, 1 venereal or otherwise. Suppuration occurs isoouer or later, a small abscess forms, is opened, but fails to heal. A sinus remains and beneath :it is a mass of indurated glands. As lone as • • O iany portion ot these remains, so long does the S'isiuus persist. Sometimes burrowing occurs, and mew sinuses form. The remedy is complete 'extirpation of the glands. If-they are open Hand much disorganised, scraping with a Volk- |mauu’s sharp spoon is a good plan ; but the easiest •wand most thorough method is enucleation with the Ifiuger and director. On dividing the glands36 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. after removal, they will be found studded with points of caseation and suppuration. The older glands will probably have been eaten away by this process, and nothing left but a hare rind of dense cicatricial tissue. Repair of the cavity from which the glands have been removei generally takes place by granulation, and occu- pies from one to two months. A strumous taiul most frequently underlies such cases. 17. Removal of Haemorrhoids.—Mahomednri male, at. 50. Has suffered from piles for five years ; they bleed occasionally. Four interua piles were removed by clamp aud cautery anc some loose folds of anal skin snipped off by scissors. Discharged in 15 days. :: li [1 Ilf re ill ij lie I ,001 in «« VIII.—Removal of Calculi. 1. Prostatoivesical calculus removed by peri nceul section.—Hindu male, cet. 22. Has hat urinary trouble since childhood. During thu last ten days there has been almost completi stoppage. A large stone was found occupying the prostatic urethra. It was easily reachea and dislodged by a peringeal section. A smal part of the stone projected into the bladder He recovered in 87 days. 2. Vesical calculus removed by supra-pubi lithotomy.—Mahomedau male, cet. 45. Has beet suffering from symptoms of stone for mam years. During the last six months his symptom have become greatly aggravated. The stone wai found to be very large, and was removed b; supra-pubicincision. It weighed 5 ounces. Tin wound was not stitched, and healed slowly Repair was impeded by deposit of phosphates Sri Will lore tlie tas liit •pet37 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. He was discharged cured 69 days after opera- tion. 3. Vesical calculus removed by litholapaxy.— Hindu male, at. 75. Underwent the operation of lithotomy 20 years ago. Has had a recur- rence of stone symptoms for several years. A stone was found in the bladder and removed by crushing and aspiration, the instruments being introduced thrice. The debris weighed 7 drachms. The operation was followed by no constitutional aud very little local disturbance, and he was able to leave hospital in a week. .4. Vesical calculus removed by median litho- tomy.—Hindu male, eet. 44. Has had symptoms of stone for five years. A very stout man with an unusually deep perinasum. An attempt was first made to crush the stone, but the instrument after several trials, failed to find aud grasp it. The perinasum was then laid open on a grooved staff. The stone was very friable and broke down on grasping it, so that it became necessary to remove the fragments by scoop and injection of water. The bladder was thoroughly cleared out, and a catheter was retained for a few days. He made a good recovery in 30 days. *#* This man • had the deepest periusemn that I have ever met with. The point of my forefinger (a very long one), could just reach the neck of the bladder through the perinaeal wound; the bladder was not sacculated nor was the stone encysted. The failure to grasp the stone was probably due to the instrument not having beeu pushed far enough in. The operation was iu' reality one of median litho- tripsy.PRECIS OF OPERATION'S. 38 IX.—Incisions. 1. Abdominal section for obstruction.— \f Hiiuju m;ile, cet. 40. Admitted with a globular I,?11 swelling in left groin, and acute symptoms of p obstruction of three days’ duration. He had been ;1 treated in hospital for similar symptoms ten f days previously, but they yielded on application j of ice. The symptoms becoming aggravated Hi' and collapse threatening, an incision was made d ' over the swelling in the inguinal region bv A Surgeon .Jameson, and the bowel examined, for A knuckle of intestine was found which hadillif been badly nipped, and half of the circumference j fa: was gangrenous. The gangrenous portion wa&l fe removed, and the sides of the gut brought ; tin together by five catgut sutures. No othei tai lesiou was found, and the wound was stitched up to Patient died exhausted 7 hours after the opera- tion. In 2. i. Tracheotomy for "Syphilitic laryngitis.— nu Hindu female, cet. 40. Admitted with syphilith Is ulceration of palate and larynx and urgen j iti dyspnoea of four days’duration. Tracheotomy t Hi was performed by Surgeon Jameson below tin ij| cricoid cartilage. Patient improved greatly U under treatment, and left thte hospital wearinsl in a tube after 107 days’ residence. ii. Preliminary tracheotomy.—Hindu clerk H cet. 35. Tracheotomy was performed in thiil || case as a preliminary to removal of a pharyu N geal tumour (See VII B. 2.) 3. Herniotomy.—i. Mahomedan male, <Et. 20 j Right oblique inguinal hernia descended fiv< I days ago, and has been strangulated since then i Obstruction of bowels complete. Stercora.ce 139 PRECIS OF OPEEATIONS. ou9 vomiting since yesterday. Hiccup and great prostration. The sac was found on puncture to be full of bloody serum. It was laid open and found to contain a large quantity of extremely congested small intestine, a small portion of which was dark and pulpy. The stricture which was at the neck of the sac was divided and the bowel returned, the soft dark portion being kept close, to the internal ring. A counter opening was mad.e in the scrotum for drainage, and a few points of suture applied, the wound being dressed antiseptically. He passed a stool next day, but symptoms of peritonitis set in. The gangrenous portion of the gut gave way, and faecal matter and gas came through the wound. .He died of exhaus- tion three days after the operation. ii. Eurasian female, cet. 38. Suffered from umbilical hernia for years. Two days ago the sac filled, and its contents could not be reduced. Taxis, purgatives, enema, ice, &e., have.been tried with no success, and the symptoms of strangulation are very urgent, and patient’s con- dition low. The sac was laid open, and found to contain a large quantity of deeply congested and ecchymosed omentum and about three inches of small intestine also deeply congested. The neck of the sac was notched above and below by a hernia knife, and the contents reduced except a portion of omentum which was very deeply ecchymosed and congested, and was cutoff after ligature. The neck of the sac was isolated, and ligatured and the edges of the ring brought together by catgut stitches. She passed two stools containing blood after the operation, andPRECIS OF OPERATIONS, 40 brought up a large quantity of dark grumous' matter. Her general condition underwent no improvement, and she died in state of collapse 12 hours after the operation. iii. Hindu male, at. 70. Has had left oblique inguinal hernia for years. The rupture de- scended ten days ago, and he has had complete' obstruction since then. He is now suffering; from hiccup, vomiting, and great prostration. The sac was laid ppen and found to contain a large quantity of congested small intestine. A twist caused by adhesion was found at one place and undone. The whole mass was then returned with some difficulty. Stercoraceous vomiting occurred during the operation. A portion of large intestine was found in the scrotum behind the sac and outside of it. This was also relieved. Patient was very low after the operation, but rallied somewhat under treat- ment. He passed eight copious stools. Vomit- ing, hiccup, and tympanitis recurred next day, and he died exhausted 30 hours after the opera- tion. iv. Mahomedan male, at. 50. Left oblique inguinal hernia descended three hours ago and symptoms of strangulation, vomiting, hiccup, prostration, &c., appeared soon after. Ice and taxis having been tried without effect, the sac was laid open by Surgeon Jameson, the stricture divided, and the coutents reduced. The opera- tion was completed as for radical cure, lie made a good recovery, aud was discharged in 25 days. v. Hindu male, at. 45. Oblique inguinal hernia of three years’ duration, irreducible for t :■ !• I lliPRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 41 three days. Pronounced symptoms of strangu- lation and obstruction. The sac was exposed and opened, the contents returned, and the opera- tion completed as for radical cure. He made a good recoverv in 28 (lavs. vi. Hindu male, cet. 40. Subject for many years to right oblique inguinal hernia. The rupture came down three days ago and could uot lie returned. Obstruction complete. Signs of strangulation well marked. Ice and taxis tried in vain. The sac was laid open. The stricture divid- ed and contents (congested omentum) returned. The sac was then isolated, tied at the nock and removed, and the pillars, &c., brought together. He had a copious stool next day, -and the tympanitis, vomiting, &c., gradually suitsided. Made a good recovery in 27 days. vii. Mahomedan male, cet. 30. Subject to right oblique inguinal hernia for some years Has had obstruction of the bowels for 14 days, and the sj mptoins local and general of strangulation are now very pronounced. Sac laid open, a gush of faeculent material issued. Bowel gangrenous. The gangrenous parts were cut away ; the stricture divided, and the ends of the gut stitched to each other and to the lips of the wound for artificial anus. Faeces and flatus escaped freely. He died of collapse in four hours after the operation. 4. Operation for the radical^cure of Hernia.— i. Hindu male, cef. 30. Subject to right oblique inguinal hernia for two months. Admitted for two hours’ irreducibi 1 ity. It was returned by taxis after application of ice. In a few days an opera- tion was performed for the cure of the rupture.PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 42 Hi recovery I lie sac was isolated, tied at the neck by trans- fixion with catgut and amputated. The pillars were brought together, and a counter- opening made in the scrotum for drainage. He got suppurative cellulitis of scrotum with high fever. An abscess formed which had to be opened and a slough separated from the fundus of the scrotum. He made a good eventually in 53 days. ii. African sailor, cet. 39.' Right reducible *? oblique inguinal hernia of five years’ standing. A truss does not prevent descent. The usual operation for radical cure was performed. The rupture was found to be of the infantile variety and to possess a second sac. He also suffered from high fever and cellulitis of scrotum result- ing in sloughing. He eventually made a good recovery in 63 days. iii. Hindu male, cet. 50. Right reducible oblique inguinal hernia of 16 years’standing. Ring very wide. Truss of no use. The usual operation was performed by Surgeon JaVneson. Strong and persistent fever followed,! accompanied by suppuration and sloughing.. He was reduced to a very low state, but rallied and left the hospital in 62 days with the wound soundly healed and in good health. iv. Hindu male, cet. 30. Right oblique inguinal hernia of several years’ standing. Irreducible for fopr hours on admission. Ice was applied and the taxis successfully employed. A few days afterwards the usual operation for radical cure was performed by Dr. Jameson. He made a good recovery in 59 days, the wound h uniting by first intention. A small collec-43 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. ion of matter formed in the scrotum which lad to be opened. v. Mahomedan male, at. 30. Right reducible oblique inguinal hernia of eight years’ duration. [Ring very wide. Usual operation performed ftjy Dr. Jameson. Hernia of infantile variety with two sacs. Wound healed aseptically iu 33 days. vi. European male, at. 35. Small oblique inguinal hernia of right side of two years’ dura- tion not commanded by a truss. Usual opera- tion performed. Sac very small and thick-, lying behind a mass of fat. The wound inflamed, suppurated and gaped, and healed by granula- tion iu 54 days. vii. Hindu male, cet. 20. Right reducible oblique inguinal hernia of three years’ duration. Usual operation. Made a good recovery in 31 days. viii. Hindu male, cet. 45. Right reducible oblique inguinal hernia of seven years’ duration. Usual operation performed. Made a good recovery in 40 days. %* Although no death took place from this operation during the year, it must be confessed that the first three cases crave cause for much anxiety. The symptoms, sloughing cellulitis and fever, were no doubt due to contamination ot the wounds. It is exceedingly difficult to prevent this in some cases on account of restlessness and carelessness; but when an aseptic state of the incision is maintained, repair takes place rapidly and kindly. The operation has not been described in minute detail, but it differed iu no respect from44 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 115 lilt n that which ha9 been detailed in previous papers. I now invariably made a counter opening in the scrotum for drainage, and believe this to be a useful and important step in the operation. 5. a. PerincBal section with a guide.—i. Hindi jti male, cet. 30. Was operated on for stone by Ji< the supra-pubic method in November 1887. and discharged in 45 days with the wound closed. Re-admitted on 25th February 1888. Four days ago the supra-pubic wounjl burst open, and nearly the whole of the urine comes af through it. A stone was found in the neck oi the bladder which was dislodged by the catheter. The perimeum was laid open on the 29th Feb- ruary on a grooved staff and a small calculus, ire weighing a few grains, removed from the bladder. The supra-pubic fistula was also enlarged, and its walls, which were encrusted with phosphatic debris, thoroughly scraped with a sharp spoon. The supra-pubic wound closed on the 12th of March, but broke open again under an attack of fever. This subsided and both supra-pubic and perinaeal wounds healed in a fortnight. A full-sized catheter was passed into the bladder every third day from the 8th March. He was discharged quite cured on 20th April, 56 days after the operation. ii. Mahomedan male, cet. 35. Stricture of urethra following gleet with frequent micturi- tion and inflamed contracted bladder. Dila- tation of the urethra failing to relieve the great pain and irritability, the peritueum was opened on a guide, and urine passed through the wound freely. Fever, diarrhoea, irritability of the stomach aud emaciatiou progressed in ty lot 445 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. spite of treatment, and he died of exhaustiou 66 days after the operation. iii. Hindu male, cet. 48. Case of urinary fistulie following stricture with hernia of right side and hydrocele of left. Periuseal section was performed on a guide, and the stricture divided at the same time. A full sized instru- ment was passed every third day. Recovery was tedious but satisfactory after 93 days’ re- sidence in hospital. iv. Hindu male, cet. 35. Sustained rupture of the urethra by the pelvis being crushed betweeu two bales. Perinaeum boggy. Urethra bleeding ; badly lacerated. A grooved staff was passed into the bladder, and the perimeum laid freely open. The perinaaal wound gradually closed, and the urethra was kept fully dilated by occasional passage of instruments. Dis- charged in 37 days. v. Hindu male, cet. 40, Extravasation of urine consequent on stricture and retention. A grooved staff was passed into the bladder, and the peringeum thoroughly laid open. Free inci- sions were also made into boggy tissues. Some sloughing of the scrotum took place, but he made a good recovery in 55 days. vi. Hindu male, cet. 50. Malignant tumour of the prostate, causing retention and great suffering. Profuse bleeding occurred on attempt- ing to pass an instrument into the bladder. Tlie perinaeum was incised, and the tumour carefully examined through the wound. It was found to implicate the neck and fundus of the bladder and the anterior wall of the rectum. A straight channel was made into the bladder.PRECIS OF OPERATIONS 46 illt a Syme’s cathether inserted, and. the wound dress- ed autiseptieally. He experienced relief fronuP the urinary distress, but died of exhaustion nine#* davs after the operation. b. Perinatal section without a guide (Cock's). f*11- i. Hindu male, aet. 40. Extravasatiou consequent!1'5 on stricture and retention. Bladder had been emptied by supra-pubic puncture. Urine coming#0 in drops. Penis aud scrotum greatly swollen*1111 and boggy. Patient very low. Cock’s operation! ^ was performed, and the bladder easily reached! A gum-elastic catheter was retained in the rul wound. Free incisions were made in the boggy tro tissues. The patient rallied somewhat ; but dial-, rcl rhoea set in from which he slowly recovered. The tissues into which extravasation had taken place etf sloughed, and when the sloughs separated, a calculus weighing 40 grains was found in a cavity on the under surface of the penis. Sup- puration also took place in the right tunica, which had to be opened. The urethra was dilat- ed, aud a full sized instrument passed every third day. After 85 days’ treatment, he left the hos- pital almost well; the perinseal wouud having, been reduced to a very narrow sinus. *** The mischief in this case was undoubt- edly caused by the calculus. The state of the parts was such that no attempt could be made to pass an instrument per urethram and Cock’s oper- ation undoubtedly saved the mau’s life. ii. Hindu male, cet. 70. Admitted with dou- ble inguinal hernia, hydrocele aud stricture of urethra caused by caustic injections and fill! lefi enlarged •prostate. A false passage had been caused by an attempt to pass au instrument47 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. into the bladder. While waiting until the false passage should heal, retention occurred which was relieved by aspiration. Ou its recurrence the perimeum was laid opeu by Cock’s • method :iud a Syme’s catheter passed; the stricture was also divided. A' full-sized instrument was passed occa- sionally ; the perinseal wound gradually closed, and he was discharged quite cured in 27 days after the operation. ' iii. Mahomedau male, cet. 30. Sustained a rupture of his urethra 2^ months ago by a fall from a tree. He had retention which was relieved by opening the perinaeum through which a gum-elastic catheter was passed into the bladder. He has worn this instrument ever since. It was found impossible to intro- duce an instrument into the bladder through the urethra. A director was passed through the perinseal fistula, and a free incision made backwards and forwards. A sound was passed into the urethra and the cicatrized proximal end of the rupture freely incised. The distal eud was found after some search, and the finger carried into the bladder. The continuity and patency of the urethra were maintained by frequent passage of a full-sized instrument The perimeal wound gradually closed, and he left hospital cured after 57 days. iv. Hindu male, at. 50. Admitted with re- tention of urine of four days’ standing. The bladder had been tapped, and an instrument passed into the urethra. Bleeding took place after this, and the bladder got distended with foetid sanious fluid. Cock’s operation was per-48 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. formed without difficulty, and the bladder wash ed out with boracic lotion. Fever of low type supervened with alburai nous urine and oedema of neck, chest and belly He died exhausted in five days. vi. Hindu male, cet. 35. Sustained rupture of urethra by fall on a brick in a sitting pos- ture. Perimeum boggy. Fee incision made without a guide. Urethra torn across. Lef hospital in 22 days, able to micturate througl the natural passage in full stream. A full-sized instrument, had been passed every third day after operation. 6. Incision for hcematoceie.—Jewish youth cet. 25. Haematocele of right tunica laid opei freely under antiseptic precautions. A hydroceh of the left side was laid open at the same time. He was attacked with tetanus eight dayi after the operation and died of it in three days. 7. Incision for stricture of the Rectum.— Madrassee ayah, cet. 42. Admitted with fistul: fu auo and stricture. Both were divided by the same incision. The resulting wound healet very slowly. Patient had suffered from tertiary syphilis. 8. Incision for Atresia oris.—i. Hindu male cet. 25. Mouth completely closed by a strong cicatricial band qu left side due to the healiug of an ulcer which occurred during fever. The band was divided and mouth opened by a gag, This was used occasionally afterwards, and he left hospital in 30 days with the wound healed and able to open his mouth widely. ii. Hindu male, cet. 40. Very firm closure due to cicatrization of mercurial ulcers. The in-PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 49 incisor teeth were extracted, the bands divided and the mouth forced open by the screwgag. He left hospital in 18 days, greatly improved and able to eat soft r;ic6. iii. Hindu male, at. 26. Closure due to cicatrized ulcer of right side which was divided by probe-pointed bistoury. The opening of the mouth was completed and continued by the screwgag, and he left hospital quite cured in 24 days. The after history of these cases could not be traced. Cases i and iii in which the cicatricial band was narrow would probably remain well. In case ii contraction of the buccal scar would pro- bably recur, but the pulling of the incisor teeth would enable him to take fluid and pulpy food. 9. Large obscesses—a. Scapular.—Hindu male, cet. 40. Diffuse abscess around left shoulder- joint, .bulging over the infra spinous fossa. An opening was made at this site and in four days another in front of the joint, both under anti- septic precautions. The discharge was profuse and offensive. Patient became low and delirious, and died 19 days after the first operation. b. Sub-scapular.—Chinese male, cet. 24. Ad- mitted with a collection of matter under the left scapula, which was evacuated by an opening behind the inferior angle of the bone. Recover- ed in nine days. c. Lumbar.—i. Hindu male, ait. 21. Large collection in right loin. Free opening made, and about a pint of matter let out. Caries of lumbar spine discovered. He was kept ! under treatment for four months, aud left with u i&mall sinus at the seat of incision. 4PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 50 ii. Hindu female, cet. 30. Abscess of right loin following gluteal abscess of same side. Opened antiseptically. Discharged in five days. d. Psoas.—Hindu male, cet. 25. Had an abscess over the sacrum five months ago, which remained over four months. There is a large collection in the basin of the pelvis pointing at the’left groin. General health very bad. About 32 ounces of pus was evacuated. The cavity contracted slowly, and lie'was discharged in 80 days in much better health with a small sinus. e. Iliac.—r-i. East Indian boy, cet. 5. Left side caused by a fall. Opened below Poiipart’s liga- ment. Recovered in 19 days. ii. Mahomedan male, at. 8. Opened below Poupart’s ligament. Recovered in 30 days% f. Gluteal.—i. East iudian female, cet. 13. Very large deep collection in right gluteal region. Opened antiseptically. Recovered in 12 days. ii. Mahomedan male, cet. 35. Admitted with great thickening and induration of left buttock and groin, which were tunnelled with sinuses and studded with small abscesses. History of-syphilis. The sinuses were systematically laid opeu and scraped, and dressed antiseptically. Constitu- tional treatment was resorted to, and lie' left hospital with a few superficial granulating sores in 17 days. (j. Thigh.—i. East Indian male, cet. 7. Large deep collection in right thigh under ex- tensor mass. It was laid opened and drained and healed satisfactorily. Discharge from hos- pital delayed by the formation of another abscess in the neighbourhood.51 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. ii. Hindu female, cet. 20. Periosteal abscess of left thigh. Opened aud drained antisepti- cally ; healed in 35 days. iii. Hindu male, cet. 30. Large collection at upper and back part of left thigh ; 48 oz. evacuated. Another abscess formed in left loin, which detained him in hospital for 55 days. h. Popliteal.—Hindu male,ce£. 25. Very large abscess extending up ail'd down to lower third of thigh and middle of leg.. Free opeuing made at each end of the cavity and tubes inserted. Discharged cured in 49 days. *#* In most of these cases the subjects were in miserable health, and the constitutional treat- ment was quite as important a matter as the local, if not more so. X.—Reparative operations. 1, Rhinoplastic operation. — Mahomedau female, cet. 30. The tip alee and columna of the nose were cut off by her husband aud a wound inflicted on the upper lip dividing it completely. A new nose was brought down from the forehead by Surgeon Gr. Jameson and carefully stitched to the stump. It adhered by first intention aud the pedicle was divided 14 days after the oper- ation. She was discharged in 29 days with a fairly good substitute for the lost feature. 2. Plastic operation of the face.—This oper- ation was rendered necessary by a gap at the root of the nose remaining after removal of a can- cerous upper jaw (see VII, i (c) i). A flap was taken from the cheek to fill it up, aud the object was satisfactorily accomplished.62 PRECIS OP OPErItIONS. XI.—Operations not classed. 1. Castration.—Hindu male, at. 30. Admit- ted with oedematous scrotum and an enlarged nodulated right testicle in which several cysts containing clear fluid existed. Patient suffered great pain. The testis was removed in the usual way by Surgeon Jameson, and the fundus of the scrotum which was thickened and adherent. Made a good recovery in 33 days. General -Remarks. t. Beatli-rate. — The death-rate — 9’8 per- cent. of cases is a true one, because no patient was removed in a doubtful-or desperate condition, and the cases with some trivial exceptions were treated to the end. The rate was somewhat higher than the previous years (6'6), but may be considered favourable for the locality and class of patients and cases. 2. Death causes.—Nearly half of the deaths (7 out of 16) were among bad cases of strangu- lated hernia that had applied too late for relief, and urinary cases in which pevinseal section was resorted to as a last chance. The fact that only one death after operation was due to tetanus (in a second case, the disease existed before operation) is a remarkable one, and goes to con- firm the impression that post operation tetanus has been rare since bichloride of mercury came to be systematically used as an antiseptic. 3. Antiseptics and hospitalism.—No death was due to pyaemia or septicaemia or any other form of septic disease arising as a result or complication of operation wound, and tlie absence of septic disease in the wards through-53 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. out the year has been undoubted. In urinary and similar cases septic conditions existed on admission, and no doubt .complicated the oper- ation aucl compromised the health and life of the patient, but in the great majority of oper- ations the wound remained “ sweet ” and all indications of systemic poisoning were absent. In the few cases in which the opposite condi- tions obtained (e.g., the three hernia operations specially referred to) the contrast was very striking. The spray was not used in any case during the year.PRE'CIS OF OPERATIONS PERFORMED IN THE WARDS OF THE FIRST SURGEON. MEDICAL COLLEGE HOSPITAL, During the year 1SS9. By Brigade-Surgeon K. McLEOD, A.M., M.D., F.R.C.S.E., Professor of Surgery, Calcutta Medical College. The wards of the First Surgeon were under my charge for six months of the year 1889. Surgeon-Major D. O’C. Raye, M.D., held charge of them during my absence on leave from May to October inclusive, and those operations which were performed by him or by other members of the hospital staff are indicated by the operator’s name. This is the ninth of this series of records, aud has been drawn up on precisely the same lines’ as its predecessors. 'I hope to add a tenth ami per- haps an eleventh year to the series, which will then furnish a true and detailed picture of surgical work during a period rendered re- markable by the introduction and gradual im- provement of antiseptic Tuelhods ; in which a decided change for the better has undoubted] v taken place, as respects the success of operative measures and the prevalence of those complica- tions and sequelai conveniently characterised hy the term hospitalism. The notes of case^ from which these abstracts have been prepared have been compiled from the original bed-head • A2 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. tickets by Assistant-Surgeons Aukshai Kristo Shaba, L.M.S., and Syama Nirod Sen Gupta, M.I3., to whom my acknowledgments are due for the cheerful and efficient assistance ren- dered by them in the treatment of cases and maintenance of records. Table of Operations performed during 1839. I.—Operations on Arteries. 1 Ligature of common carotid for angioma of seal]) 2 Ligature of temporal artery for the same 3 Laying open a traumatic aneurism and tying Che artery above and below ... Total II.—Operations on Veins. 1 Ligature of varicose veins by buried catgut loops ••• ••• ••• 2'Ligature of varicocele by buried catgut loops 3 Ligature and excision of varicocele alter exposure by antiseptic incision Total , III.—Operations on Joints. 1 Reduction of old dislocation of shoulder-joint 2 Forcible movement of still joints— a elbow b knee '... 3 Aspiration of knee-joint 4 Incision of knee-joint _ 5 Erasion of calcaneo-cuboid joint 6 Excision of elbow joint— a for compound fracture ••• b for old dislocation ... ••• Total 6 n z> S3 5 1 0 1 0 1 0 3 0 2 0 4 0 2 0 8 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 1 1 0 2 0 9 13 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. IV.—Operations on Bones. 1 Sequestrotomy for necrosis 2 Erasion for caries 3 Excision and fracture for bending 4 Excision for compound fracture 5 Wiring fractured patella Total V.—Amputations. A. For Injury. 1 Primary of forearm 2 Primary of wrist 3 Primary of fingers 4 Primary of leg 5 Primary of toes 6 Secondary of arm .for gangrene ... 7 Secondary of leg for gangrene ... 8 Secondary of toe for gangrene ... Total B. For Disease. 9 Of the arm for sloughing ulcers... 10 Of the arm for myeloid sarcoma 11 Of the finger for whitlow 12 Of the thigh for disorganized knee-joint 13 Of the leg for mycetoma 14 Epithetioma of foot 15 Syme’s for caries of ankle 16 Chopart’s for sarcoma 17 Of great toe for- necrosis Cj Total 5 zj rs p—• ... 16 0 1 O ... 1 0 1 0 1 0 ... 20 0 ... 4 0 1 0 3 0 o ’0 2 0 ... 1 0 1 . 0 1 0 ... 15 0 1 0 1 0 ... 1 0 V. 1 0 2 ( 1 0 ... 1 0 1 0 ... 1 0 • ... . 10 1 Grand total op Amputations ... 25 lTotal PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 2 16 4 • t. 1 Total 70 VI.—Removal of Tumours (bt excision) A. Malignant. o 8 1 Epithelioma a of heel • •• 1 0 b of penis • • • 4 0 2 Scirrhus a of breast Ml 2 1 b of axilla 1 0 3 Sarcoma a of breast • •• 1 •o b of forearm • •• 1 0 c of lumbar region 1 1 4 Fibro-sarcoma of jaws 3 0 5 Chnndro-sarcoma of hand I 0 6 Lympho-sarcoma of axilla • •• 1 0 B. Non-Malignant. 1 Elephantiasis a of prepuce 4 0 b of scrotum • •• 24 1 c of labia • • • 5 0 2 Lipoma a of forehead . ... ... 1 0 b of neck ... 1 0 3 Myxoma a of palate ... ... 1 0 b of uose ... 1 0 4 Angioma of lip ••• • •• 2 0 5 Cyst a sebaceous of scalp 1 0 b of thigh ... . • i 1 0 c bursal of elbow ... 2 0 6 Condvloma’of anus • • • 1 0 7 Hsemorhoids ... 6 0 8 Diseased glands a cervical Ml • 3 0 b axillary .-. • ... 1 0 c inguinal • • • 16 0 Grand total of Tumours ... 86 3 VII.—Removal of Foreign Bodies. ' 1 Date thoru from fbot II* 1 ') Died.PEECIS OP OPERATIONS. 7 0 Total VIII.—Removal op Calcdli. 1 Vesical by litholapaxy IX.—Incisions. Tracheotomy for laryngitis ... For incarcerated inguinal hernia (without opening sac) For strangulated inguinal hernia (with open ing sac)... For strangulated femoral hernia Radical cure of hernia Laparotomy a for obstruction b for wound of stomach Lumbar colotomy Tenotomy a for talipes equinus b for talipes equino-varus c for flexion of hip For suppuration in mastoid cells For suppurated liEematocele ...• For suppurated hydrocele For stricture of rectum For atresia oris 14 Internal urethrotomy 16 External urethrotomy— a Syme’s b Cock’s c Whitehead’s 1 2 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 17 18 For sinuses For abscesses Total X.—Reparative Operations. For cicatrix after burn For extroverted bladder ... For vesico-vaginal fistula For hernia testis For protrusion of omentum For ulcer of sole of foot 5 . O £ • a 7 1 ‘1 1 1 0 6 2 1 0 1 Ai 1 i 0 i 1 i 0 i 0 i 0 i 0 3 0 3 . 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 2 1 6 2 1 0 8 0 13 0 9 1 0 2 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 • ••6 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. X.—Operations not classed. C w O & Q 1 Rapid dilatation of urethral stricture ... 4 0 2 Aspiration of bladder 1 0 3 Reduction of prolapsus of the rectum ... 1 0 Total ... 6 . 0 Ghand Total ... 239 14 Death-rate per cent., 5-85. Operations on Arteries. I. — 1. Ligature of the common carotid artery for angioma of the scalp.—Hindu female, aged 40. Admitted with two pulsating tumours of the scalp whose growth is said to have been caused by a fall on the head sustained one year and a half ago. One of the tumours occupies the left temporal region, being situated below- the fascia. The zygoma has been raised and expanded. The other, which is separated from it by an interval of sound scalp, is situated on the forehead and crowu of the head rather to the right side. These tumours are tense and pulsate visibly. They collapse somewhat on compression, and in expanding the pulsation is distensile. Large active arteries are felt cours- ing towards them and their surface is travers- O m ed by large veins. Patient has a congeni- tal goitre and proptosis of left eyeball. There are no “ brain symptoms,” though the patient is very nervous and the circulation excitable. The left common carotid was tied a few days after her admission. The wound healed in nine days. Pulsation ceased in the temporal tumour, which also underwent collapse. The frontalPRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 7 tumour also became softer, but active pulsation persisting in some Targe vessels euteriug it from below— 2. Ligature of the right temporal artery was resorted to two days after the carotid had been tied. This was done under chloroform by buried catgut loops at two places above and below the zygoma; a curved needle threaded with catgut was passed under the artery and then in a reversed direction over the artery, entering and emerging through the same punc- tures. The loop was then tied tightly and the knot buried. Some suppuration took place round the lower loop, but no bleeding. These measures caused still further collapse and abo- lished pulsation. Patient grew impatient after 46 days’ residence in hospital and insisted on going home. Her condition was no doubt greatly improved, but whether the growth of the tumours was permanently checked it is impos- sible to ascertain. 3. Traumatic anurism.—Hindu female, cet. 50. The aneurism iu this case occupied the cavity of a Colies’s fracture sustained four months ago. The cavity was laid open after the application of an elastic cord, the clots cleared out, a piece of loose bono removed and bleeding points secured. The wound healed by granulation in 36 days, and the patient was discharged well 75 days after the operation. Operations on Veins. I-—1» Ligature of varicose veins by buried catgut loops.--Hindu male, ait. 20. This man was admitted in the previous year with venousPKECI3 OP OPERATIONS. 8 angioma of the veins of the forearm and arm. Soft swellings, consisting of dilated veins, existed above and below the elbow-joint on the radial side and above the wrist, on the same side. A phlebolith had been removed from his basilic vein on the 20th of December and the vein tied with catgut above and below. The •wound healed in nine days. On the6th of January two catgut loops were placed on the swelling below the- elbow at a distance of about 3 inches. The catgut was passed under the veins by means of a curved needle and then backwards over the veins, entering and emerging through the same punctures. The loops were then tied firmly, the ends cut short and buried under the skin. Some suppuration took place in the punctures and much induration around the loops. The veins got collapsed and swelling gradually shrank. On the 25th of January the veins above the elbow and wrist were similarly dealt with, four loops being inserted. No suppuration took place on this occasion, but induration, collapse of the veins, and shrinking of the swelling ensued. He was discharged after 63 days’ residence in hos- pital with a useful arm of normal shape and dimensions. 2. Ligature of varicocele by buried loops.— This procedure was adopted in four cases. Three' of the patients were young Eurasian lads and the fourth a European, aged 25. In one case both sideswere operated on simultaneously; in the other three one side only was dealt with. The parts having been washed, purified with soap and ■water and scrubbed with carbolic lotion, the scrotum was grasped in the middle line by the9 PBECIS OF OPERATIONS. finger and thumb of the left hand, the v&s deferens was allowed to escape inwards and a needle passed from before backwards between it and the varicose mass ’ A thread of stout catgut was carried through. The veins were now allowed to escape inwards and the needle en- tered through the posterior puncture and made to emerge at the anterior. The veins were then en- circled in a loop, which was tied tight and buried. Two 'such loops were placed—one just above the testicle and the other below the external ring;, the punctures were closed with collodion. No suppuration took place, but some induration appeared around the loops and some oedema of the scrotum was observed. No serious con- stitutional disturbance ensued. The patients re- mained 13, 18, 26, ami 43 days in hospital, and the varicose mass underwent diminution in hulk, hut some swelling remained. The condition was greatly improved in all cases ; hut in none did complete shrinking and obliteration of the mass occeur. Two of these operations were per - formed by Dr. Kaye. 3. Ligature and excision of varicocele after ex- posure by antiseptic incision.—The subjects of this more radical procedure were a Eurasian male, CEt. 19, operated on by Dr. Kaye, and a Euro- pean, bet. 26, by Dr. Jameson. One side was involved in either case. The varicocele was reached by a lateral incision, the mass separated from the vas and the artery and tied in two places ; the intermediate portion was removed and the wound stitched and dressed • antisepri- callv. The first case healed bp first intention in eight days and the last by granulation in twenty-10 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. The result iu both cases was satis- eight days, factory. The impression left by these six cases was that while treatment by buried loops is easy and safe, it is not so effectual as ligature and exci- sion, which is somewhat more tedious and severe but does not constitute by any means a formidable process. Operations on Joints. 1. Reduction of old dislocation of shoulder joint.—Downward dislocation of one month’s standing in a Hindu male, ret. 25. Reduction effected by heel in axilla after traction by pullies and manipulation had failed. 2. (a) Forcible movement of stiff elbow.— Hindu male, cct. 30. Fibrous anchylosis in a straight position following arthritis nine months ago. Under chloroform the movements of the joint were fully restored. Some grating wasi felt and the joint became painful and swollen for a few days during which it Was kept iu a semiflexed position. Passive motion was re- peated, and the patient who took his discharge in thirteen days advised to continue it. (b) Forcible movement of stiff knee.—Native Christian female, cet. 20. Joint injured by a fall four months ago. Cannot stretch it beyond • ! 1 i20a ; can be flexed to the full extent. The joint was folly straightened under chloroform and put on a MacIntyre splint. When the irritation subsided, passive movement was re- peated again and again, but on one such occa- sion the ligarnentum .patellae gave way and severe inflammation followed. It is now being, treated for ankylosis in a straight position.11 PRECIS’ OF OPERATIONS. 3. Aspiration of knee joint.—Hindu male, cet. 50. Sub-acute synovitis of one month’s duration. History of syphilis. The joint was much distended and the effusion persisting in spite of treatment, 6 ounces of fluid were removed by aspiration. The fluid did not re-accumulate, and understrapping and iodide of potassium considerable improvement in the state of the joint took place. (Dr. Raye.) 2. Incision of knee-joint.—European male, cet. 10. Sustained an injury of left knee joint a week ago. Joint much inflamed and distended with fluid. A fluctuating swelling formed out- side the head of the tibia which burst and emitted pus. This was found to communicate with the joint cavity which was freely laid open by incision. Satisfactory recovery took place in 49 days, (Dr. Raye.) 5. Erusure of calcaneo-cuboid joint—East Indian male, cet. 21. Admitted with painful swelling of the dorsum of right foot. History of syphilis. Softening and fluctuation took place over the calcaneo-cuboid joint. An incision was made under chloroform and a little pus voided. The margins of the joint were felt bare. The articular cartilages, which were eroded, were removed by a sharp spoon and the under- lying surfaces well scraped and filed. The wound was left to granulate. Pain disappeared after operation and the case is doing well. 6. («) Excision of elbow joint for compound fracture.—Hindu male, cet. 13. Fell from a height 34 days ago and broke his left humerus near the joint. The joint is now stiff and the internal condyle protrudes through an ulcer ohi PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 12 (Dr. Raye.) the inner side of the joint. The joint was exposed by a straight incision on its posterior aspect and the ends of the bones removed. He left hospital in 48 days with a useful limb. (b.) For old dislocation.—i. Mahomedan male, cet. 36. Dislocated bis right elbow by a fall five months ago. It is quite stiff now in a straight position. The joint was resected. Healing was delayed by oozing and formation of clot in the wound cavity, but a satisfactory result was ultimately obtained. (Dr. Adie.) ii. Hindu male, cet. 20. Fell off horseback two months ago and broke the lower end of the humerus. The bones of the forearm have been displaced backwards and there is anchylosis in a straight position. An attempt was made to flex forcibly under chloroform without effect. «The joint was exposed by a \ shaped incision fromi behind ; the lower end of the humerus removed, the end of the bone being rounded to fit into the sigmoid cavity of the ulna,which was left. The wound healed by first intention. Pas-’ sive movement was resorted to, and the patient was discharged in 47 days with a useful arm. The extremes of flexion and extension could not be reached, but sufficient movement existed for practical purposes. * Operations on Bones. 1. Sequestrotomy for necrosis.—It would serve no useful purpose to give the details of these sixteen cases. They illustrate most of the varie- ties of necrosis and cario-necrosis met with in this couutry, resulting from injury and iuflamma-PEECIS OF OPERATIONS. 13 tion, acute and chronic, common and specific. A few of them exemplify the struma of early life, and one or two the struma of age. The treatment consisted in exposing freely carious surfaces and necrotic cavities, removing sequestra, scraping away bare and rough sur- faces by gouge and osteotribe, removing un- healthy granulations by sharp spoon, and in all cases endeavouring to render the wound cavities aseptic and obtain repair by aseptic granulation. Splints and constitutional treat- ment were not neglected. According to the circumstances of the case, repair was rapid or slow ; the period of retention in hospital varied from a week to seven and-a-half months. In some cases repeated operations were required. As unusual sequestra may be mentioned a mass of mastoid cells in one case and the tip of a cervical transverse process in another removed by Dr. Raye. Iu no case did any unfavourable condi- tions follow the operation. 2. Erasionfor caries.—The acromion pro- cess was the part affected in this case, and the result of scraping was satisfactory, the cavity healing by granulation in twenty days. 3. Excision- and fracture for bent tibia.— This patient, a Hindu male, cet. 30, was admit- ted on the 17th of May for caries of the left tibia ; the bone was trephined by Dr. Ra.ye on the 8th of June and several fragments of carious bone removed. The cavity healed up with considerable inward curvature of the leg, causing inversion of the foot aud rendering walking painful and difficult. On the 9th of November a V shaped piece of bone was remov-14 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. . ' ed by chisel from the convexity of the tibia (outer aspect) am] in forcibly straightening the limb the fibula gave way. The wound healed aseptically. Firm union of both bones in a straight position occurred and he left hospital on the 8th of March 1890 with a useful limb. 4. Excision for compound fracture.—f of an inch was removed by the saw from the protruding end of the radius. The case did well. 5. Wiring fractured patella.—Mahomedan male, cat. 35. Sustained transverse fracture of right patella and double Colles’s fracture through a fall on board ship four mouths before admission. The fractures of the radius had united with considerable deformity. The fragments of the patella were about two inches apart and the func- tion of walking was much impaired. The frag- ments were brought together by a longitudinal incision pared by chisel, drilled and brought i together by two wires. A satisfactory result i tt_ detained in hospital was obtained. He for three mouths. was Amputations for Injury. V. 1. Primary amputation of the forearm — i. Hindu male, cet. 35. Right hand and forearm smashed in an oilmill. Amputation by oval flaps at middle of forearm same day. Flaps healed by first intention. Track of tube sup- purated and healed by granulation. Remained five weeks in hospital. (Dr. Raye.) ii. Hindu male, cet. 18. Right hand and wrist smashed in an oil-machine. Amputation by oval flaps at lower third. Discharged in 67 days. lit; I'll t'i ID i aii In IjPRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 15 iii. Mahomedan male, cet. 16. Gun accident causing destruction of hand and wrist. Ampu- tation at lower third by oval flaps. Healed in 29 days. (Dr. Raye.) iv. Hindu female,-cet. 30. Machine accident, hand and wrist crushed. . Amputation of lower third by oval flaps.. Healed in 29 days. (Dr. Raye.) 2. Primary amputation of icrist.—Hindu male, cat. 13. Machine accident. Disarticulation at wrist. Healed aseptioally. Recovered in 19 days. 3. Amputation of fingers.—■ i. Hindu male, cet 27. Right index finger smashed and hand badly lacerated by machine. Finger removed, and wound stitched. Healed aseptically in 10 days. ii. Hindu mule, cet 45. Similar case ; healed in 21 days. fii. Hindu male, cet. 25. Right index finger smashed in a mill. Lacerated wound of thumb. Finger removed, and wound stitched. Recovered in 21 days. 4. Primary amputation of leg.— i. Hindu male, cet. 25 Right leg caught in the rope of an anchor. Ankle joint dislocated, and soft parts badly lacerated. Amputation at the seat of election. Recovered in 43 days. (Dr. Jameson.) ii. Hindu female, cet. 60. Bad compound com- minuted fracture of leg in a feeble old woman. i Amputation by modified circular method at mid- 1 die of leg. Wound remained aseptic and healed by first intention in 12 days. The track of the drainage tube closed iu 27 days.16 •PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 5. Amputation of toes.— In both these cases the great toe was smashed, and removed at the metatarso-phalangeal joint. The wounds healed kindly. 6. Secondary amputation of the arm for i ganyrene.— Hindu male, cet. 8. The gangrene i in ttris boy’s case was due-to tight baudagiiur for fracture. The arm was removed by oval flaps at the upper third. The wound healed by first intention in 13 days, and the lad left hospital in 19 days. (Dr. Raye.) 7. Secondary amputation of the leg for gan- grene.—Hindu male, cet. 50. Fell from a tree and broke his right leg close to the ankle seven days i before admission. The parts were gangrenous, and amputation at the seat of election was found necessary. The wound healed by first intention, and he was discharged iu twenty days. (Dr. tr Jameson.) 8. Secondary amputation of great toe /or gangrene.—Mahomedan male, cet 36. Injury sus- ml tained three weeks ago. Gangrenous toe remov- ed at metatarso-phalangeal joint.. Healed by foi granulation in 40 days. (Dr. liave.) Amputations for Disuask. 9. Amputation of the arm for sloughing ^ ulcer.-—Hindu female, cet. 45. Sustained a wound of left forearm a fortnight before admis- sion, which took an -unhealthy action, and has j, resulted in a large sloughing cavity exposing |!r, muscles and tendons and full of maggots. Am- t! putation of the arm at its upper third became necessary. The wound healed by first inten- tion, and patient was discharged in 14 days. (Dr. Raye.)17 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 10. Amputation of the arm for myeloid sarcoma.— Hindu male, cet. 30. Large tumour of elbow 18 inches in circumference, of two years’ growth. Arm removed at upper third by circu- lar method. Wound healed in 15 days, and patient left hospital 26 days after operation. The tumour was soft aud extensively hollowed out by cystic cavities continuing sanguineous serum. 11. Amputation of finger for lohitlow.— Hindu male, cet. 35. Whitlow of the perios- teal variety causing necrosis of phalanges. 12. Amputation of thigh for disorganized knee-joint.— Hindu male, cet. 40. His left knee- joint, had been resected four years ago. ’During the last year op so he has had abscesses of the joint and lower part of the thigh, followed by extensive disorganization of the soft parts and necrosis of the femur. Amputation was per- formed at the lower third of the thigh by long anterior and short posterior flaps. The wound healed mostly by first intention. Some constitu- tional disturbance occurred from the fourth to the seventh day and some bagging took place- about the eighteenth day, requiring reinser- tion of drainage tubes. He was detained in hospital for 90 days. (Dr. Ray.e.) 13. Amputation of the leg for mycetoma.—. i. Hind i male, cet. 50. Disease of two years’ duration, Foot and ankle riddled with sinuses ireaching the softened bone. No. discharge of avhite or black particles. Amputation of lower (third of leg by Teal’s method. The wound was |p.;o gressing favorably, but the patient, a feeble told man, got despondent, aud refused his food. - BPRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 18 He diet! of marasmus and exhaustion fourteei days after the operation. ii. Hindu male, cet. 35. Disease of three years’ duration implicating foot and ankle. Botl white and dark particles had been observed t< issue out of tlie sinuses. Amputation by modifiee circular method at lower third of leg. Flap united by first intention. Discharged in 4! days. (Dr. Kaye.) 14. Amputation of leg for epithelioma of foot — Hindu male, cet. 40. Had gangrene of both fee 15 years ago resulting in spontaneous ampu tation. Epithelioma appeared in the stump o the left foot necessitating amputation three year ago, and about four months ago the right stunp became similarly affected. The foot was removes above the ankle. Part of the posterior fla sloughed and tile-wound healed by in 40 days. 15. Syme's amputation for caries of th ankle.—Hindu female, cet. 11. Sustained, a injury of the foot six months ago, which ha resulted in caries of the tarsus and extensiv ulceration. Foot removed by Syme’s metho above the ankle. The lips of the wound heale by first intention, but the track of the drainag. tube remained 'long open. Discharged abou 80 days after operation. (Dr. Raye.) 16. ' Chopart's operation for sarcoma.— Hind female, cet. 30. The tumour was of five month growth, and attached to the dorsum of the foe at its outer aspect. Disarticulation was effecte j between the first and second rows of tarsal bone by. Chopart’s method. The wound healed b granulatio: . tl( .. ■PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 19 first intention, and patient was discharged in 44 days. (Dr. Kaye.) 17. Amputation of the great toe for necrosis.— This amputation was performed by a lady student (Miss Perry). The necrosis had resulted from an injury by broken glass. The most noteworthy circumstance connected with these amputations is the trifling ■mortality, which contrasts so strikingly with khe early history of the hospital (4 against 66 yper cent.) It is true that none of the cases Belonged to those categories which offer faint Biope of recovery, e. g., large amputations for kevere and multiple injuries, amputations for Spreading traumatic gangrene, osteomyelitis and [other septic conditions, amputations for secondary iiaimorrhage in which much blood has been [already lost, &c., &c. On the other hand, no [selection was made, and many of the subjects (were in feeble health. The absence of constitu- tional disturbance and surgical accidents attest ■the success of. antiseptic measures, which may |l>e said to have robbed amputations per se of pill danger to life. Malignant Tumours. la. Epithelioma of heel.—Hindu male, cat. 36. pHad a. warty growth of right heel which was titwice removed, and recurred as often. The [surrounding skin is infiltrated. The diseased ■tarts were removed by a circular incision {[placed well beyond the circumference of the ^disease ; tlffe underlying os calcis was freely [gouged out. The wound healed slowly by gran- ■ulation, and he left hospital without any sigu of ■recurrence in 96 days.20 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. \b. Epithelioma of the penis.—i. Mahomedar: male, cet. 32; Disease of four months’ duratioi involved about a third of the free portion of the penis, which was amputated near tlie scrotun I by Hilton’s method, the corpus spongiosum being |j left longer than the cavernosa, the fibrous walls m and septum of which were brouglit together by two catgut stitches. The wound healed by granu latiou, and patient was discharged in 54 days. ii. Hindu male, cat. 50. Disease of sis: ® months’ duration, involving half of the penis' li which was removed in the same manner. Tin wound healed in 18 days. (Dr. Kaye.) iii. Hindu male, cet. 45. Duration one year *r confined to glansanu prepuce. Half of the peni:. W; removed. Recovered in 31 days. (Dr. Raye.j 1# iv. Hindu male, cet. 59. Disease appearet jt, eight months ago, involved about one-third o the penis, one. half of which was removed |j( Recovered in 22 days. m; ### I have found that transfixing the peni: y transversely through the corppra cavernosa and applying an elastic cord above the needh !r| is an excellent method of controlling liaemorr j; hage in these casps. The needle also indicate. ' tlie level pf operation. I have abandoned tin ^ practice of closing the wound by srttches^havinj tli; encountered several instances in which thi procedure led to unhealthy action aud seven local and constitutional disturbance.’ This wa: ^ due, no doubt, to urine having obtained acces ,t( to the cavity of the wound. * 2a. Scirrhus of breast.—i. Hindu female, cet ijj 50. An ulcerated cancer of right breast of fiv J(, months’ duration, implicating the surroundin' ijj21 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. skin extensively and associated with diseased glands in the axilla and root of the neck. The breast was removed by an elliptical incision placed well outside of the diseased area, The affected glands were also removed from the axilla and the root of the neck through the axilla. Flaps were taken to close up the large wound ; drainage tubes were inserted in suitable positions, and the wound dressed with all possible an- iseptic care. The operation was too much for his old feeble subject, and she died in five days )f chronic shock. ii. Hindu female) cet. 35. Very hard can- ier of left breast of one year’s duration, ul- ;erated in the centre. Axillary glands enlarged. The breast was removed and axilla cleared >ut. The edges of the wound were brought ogether, but afterwards gaped, and healing took dace mostly by granulation. She left hospital >n the 7th of September, 67 days after operation; tut returned witli a recurrence of the disease in February 1890.. Nothing more could be done or her. (Dr. Raye.) 2b. Scirrhus of the axilla.—European male, 5t. 34. Perceived a swelling in his axilla two ears ago consequent on the kick of a rifle. ,t has gone on increasing and broke about ten aonths ago. There is now a foul excavated ilcer, set in a hard mass implicating the skin. \xillary 'glands enlarged aud indurated. The iseased mass aud glands were thoroughly xtirpated aud the ca'vity healed by granulation n 26 days. 3a. Sarcoma of male breast.—Hindu male, k 58. Has had a tuinOur of the left breast of the• 22 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. size of an orange for the last twenty years Tvhiel lias been growing rapidly for the lasUhreemonths It has now attained a largesize,measures 23inche at the base, is tense and tender, and the surfac reticulated with large veins. The skin coverin' it is adherent, and infiltrated ; base moves free' Ijj general health good. Anticipating free bleed ing the operation was commenced by making tw punctures at each pole of the tumour and passin four packing needles, 8 inches long, in the loos cellular tissue between the base of the tumour an the chest, wall, so that their ends crossed as show in the diagram. . An elast cord was then wound round tl eight ends of the needles, b which the base of the turnon was tightly constricted, and i mass made prominent. Ov incisions were madejiboveai below in healthy skin, and i the tumour was removed, tl elastic loop tightened and contracted the worn to about 3 inches.diameter. Only one vessel bh inch brought togeth o O tubes were i that came from between two ribs. The cord w graduallv loosened, and about 100 points requir tving. Tbe wound gaped to about 20 diameter, and the edges were with some difficulty. Drainage serted and an antiseptic dressing applied. T! edges did not unite throughout by first inte tion. Some gaping occurred, and a little sloug ing of the superior flap owing to the dragging a stitch. Repair eventually took place by granul tion. On the twentieth day an enlarged ax larv gland was removed, but it was found to23 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. cystic. There was a little constitutional distur- bance after the operation. The patient improv- ed in health and he left hospital in 83 days after the operation with no sign of recurrence. b. Sarcoma of forearm. — Hindu female, oet. 60. Has suffered from a tumour of the under side of right forearm just below the el- bow joint for two years. It was removed two months ago but recurred. The tumour is now as large as an orange. It was thoroughly extirpated together- with a piece of the underlying ulna. The wound healed by granulation in 70 days. Sarcoma of gluteal region.—Mahomedan male, oet. 19. The left leg was removed below the knee for sarcoma one and a half year ago ; the present tumour appeared four months ago. .It is situated over the left os ilii and sacrum, is about the size of an orange and deeply placed. The tumour was exposed by a T-shaped in- cision and removed together with a considerable portion of the underlying ilium. Bleeding was free and had to be stopped by the actual cautery. The disease could not be entirely re- moved. He liugered for 52 days, and died of exhaustion. 4. Fibro Sarcoma of Upper Jaw.—Hindu male, oet. 35. Malignant epulis of right upper jaw of six months’duration. The jaw bone was removed with exception of the orbital plate and malar process. The skin wound healed by first intention, and the patient left hospital in 20 days. Fibro sarcoma of lower jaw.—i. Hindu male, at. 50. The tumour of one year’s growth lay over the right angle of the lower jaw. It wasPRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 24 hard and about the size of a walnut. It was ex- posed by two oval incisions and enucleated. The wound healed by first intention, and patient left hospital in 22 days. (Dr. Jameson.) ii. Mahomedan male, cut. 13. Malignant epu- lis of right side of lower jaw in situation of bicuspid teeth. Had been removed six or seven times, but always recurred. The teeth on each side were extracted, the growth re- moved by strong scissors and the alveolar process f reely cut away by bone forceps. The wound healed by granulation, and he left hospital in 47 days without any sign of recurrence. 5. Chondrosarcoma of hand. — Eurasian male, cet. 40. Has had a small tumour on the back of the right hand ulnar side for 15 .years. During last four months it has taken an active growth. The ring and little fingers were removed to- getlier with their metacarpal bones and the tumour. Repair took place mostly by first inten- tion in 45 days. (Dr, Rayei) 6. Lyvipho-sarcoma of axilla.—Hindu male, ait. 28. Noticed a nodule in the right axilla two years ago. This lias grown rapidly till the axilla is distended with a large nodulated mass which is also felt a,bove the clavicle. The mass was .exposed by free incision and remov- i ed. Haemorrhage which was profuse, was con- trolled by pressure forceps until the points were secured by ligature. The operation was followed by pneumonia, of right base. This brought him very low but, he eventually recov- ered and left hospital 50 days after operation. The wound gaped and healed mostly by gran- ulation. '(Dr. Raye.)PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 25 Non-Malignant Tumours. 1(7. Elephantiasis of the prepuce.—i. Hindu male, act. 27. A case of paraphimosis with oedem- atoils prepuce following venereal sore. The swollen and thickened prepuce was dissected off and the edge of the skin stitched to the corona glandis. The wound healed partly by first inten- tion and partly by granulation in 27 days. ii. Hindu male, cet. 28. Elephantoid thicken- ing of prepuceof eight months’duration, scrotum healthy. A circular incision was made near the mot of the penis and the hypertrophied tissue dissected off. The prepuce was adherent to the shins, and the meatus urinarius which was contracted had to be slit. The parts healed by granulation in 27 days. iii. Hindu male, cet. 23. Similar case,of syphi- litic origin, similarly treated ; stitches were inserted and the wound healed mostly by first intention in 29 days. (Dr. Raye.) iv. Mahomedan male, cat.. 50. Elephantiasis of prepuce stricture of urethra near meatus and scrotal fistula. The hypertrophied mass was dissected off; the urethral orifice- slit, and a full sized bougie passed. This was continued every fourth day, and patient left hospital cured 60 days after the operation. These cases are very common in Bengal, and the treatment adopted, which may be called circumcision by dissection, always gives satis- factory results. b. Elephantiasis of the Scrotum. i. Mahomedan male, cet. 35. Scrotal tumour of eleven months’ duration. 16 inches in circum-26 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. ference. Removed in the usual way. Recovered in 57 days. ii. Maliomedan male, cat. 53. One and a half year’s duration. Hydrocele of five years’ stand- ing. History of periodic fever. Removed in the usual way. Weighed 2lbs. Recovered in 64 days. iii. Maliomedan male, oet. 30. One year’s duration. Usual operation. Small hydrocele. Weighed 21 bs. Discharged in 67 days. iv. Hindu male, cet. 38. Duration 1| year. Penis not involved. • The scrotum was removed as usual, but the penis was not decorticated. Small hydrocele. Recovered in -34 days. v. Hindu male, cet. 31. Two years’duration. Usual operation. Hydrocele on right side, left tunica adherent. Weighed 2lbs. loz. Recover- ed in 60 days. vi. Hindu male, cet. 20. Two years’duration. Usual operation. Right hydrocele, left tunica adhered. Weighed 21 bs. 3oz., Recovered in 75 days. vii. Hindu male, cet. 35. Three or four years’ duration. Usual operation. Right hydrocele, left tunica ossified ; dissected off. Tumour weigh- ed 31bs. 12oz. Recovered in 60 days. viii. Hindu male, cet. 35. Two years’ dura- tion. Usual operation. Weighed lib. 12oz. Recovered in 69 days. ix. Hindu male, cet. 80. Admitted 21st Janu- ary with scrotal tumour complicated with inguinal hernia. The hernia was cured by operation in the first instance, and the tumour, which weighed 4lbs., removed on 27th February in the usual way. Recovered in 46 days after the last operation.PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 27 x. Miiliomedan male, cet. 40. One year’s dura- tion. Usual operation. Right hydrocele. Weighed 2lbs. Recovered in 57 days. xi. Mahomedan male, cet. 30. Had gonorrhoea four years ago, followed by stricture and urinary fistulas. The tumour began to grow about a year ago. Admitted 7th February. Perinseal section performed 12th February. The scrotal tumour was removed on the 25th March. The scrotum and pubes were riddled with sinuses and urethra destroyed. The perinaeal wound was enlarged and a Syme’s catheter tied in. The operation was then completed as usual. Weight 2lbs. 3oz. Made a satisfactory recovery. xii. Hindu male, cet. 35. Admitted with elephantiasis of the scrotum and inflammation of left testicle and tunica. The right testicle was dissected out and the left testicle which was disorganized, removed by castration. The scro- tum was then taken away by a circular incision, and the remaining testicle stitched between the lips of the wound. Patient made a good re- covery in 41 days. (Dr. Jameson.) xiii. Hindu male, cet. 38. Case of lymph scrotum of seven years’ duration and reducible right inguinal hernia of fourteen years’ standing. Admitted 21st July. Both conditions were dealt with at the same time (30th July). The sac of the hernia was first exposed, dissected out, tied at the neck and removed, the pillars being brought together- by catgut stitches. The tumour was then excised in the usual manner. The opera- tion was not followed by any constitutional disturbance, and patient made a good recovery in 71 days. (Dr. Raye.)PRECIS OP OPERATION'S. 28 , xiv. Hindu ' male, cet. 40. Twenty years’ duration. Usual operation. Recovered iu 48 days. (Baboo Syama Nirod Bas Gupta.) xv. Hindu male, cet. 43. Scrotal tumour of five years’ duration. Ou slitting up tbe prepuce, the glaus was found to be epitlieliomatous, and the penis was amputated. The operation was then completed as usual. The parts healed kindly, and he left hospital without any sign of recurrence of the caucer iu 75 days. » (Dr. Kaye.) xvi. Hindu male, cet. 20. One year’s dura- tion. Usual operation. Large left hydrocele. Healed iu 51 days. (Dr. Jameson.) xvii. Hindu male,cet. 35. Five years’dura- tion. Usual operation. Double hydrocele. Patient died of shock, from which he never re- covered, on the fifth day. (Dr. Adie.) xviii. Hindu male, cet. 21. Three years’ duration. Usual operation. Haematocele on right side, large hydrocele on left. Discharged in 45 days. (Dr. Jameson.) xix. Hindu male, cet. 47. Five years’dura- tion. Usual operation. Double hydrocele. Tumour weighed 661bs. Recovered in 48 days. xx. Mahomedan male, at. 37. Three years’ duration. Usual operation. Small right and large left hydrocele. Discharged in 77 days. xxi. Hindu male, cet. 24. Three years’ dura- tion. Usual operation. Right hydrocele. Re- covered in 83 days. (Dr. Raye.) xxii. Mahomedan male, cet. 30. Eight years’ duration. Usual operation. Double hydrocele. Recovered iu 61 days. (Baboo Syama Nirod Das Gupta.)20 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. xxiii. Mahomedan male, cet. 40. Seven years’ duration. Usual operation. Recovered in 55 days. xxiv. Hindu male, cet. 50. 16 years’ dura- tion. Usual operation. Could not pass water after the operation, and in the attempt to relieve the bladder a false passage was made. This necessitated the performance of Cock’s opera- tion. He made a good recovery in 64 days from both operations. (Syama Nirod Das Gupta.) *** The operation performed in these cases was in every respect the same us has been describ- ed in previous reports. Great care was taken in keeping the wound aseptic and with unvary- ing success. The deep dressings were seldom removed until ten or twelve days had elapsed, and by that time granulation material has filled the wound to the level of the skin. The subsequent organization of this and cicatrization of the wound is a very slow, process, and it is difficult to see how it can be accelerated. All the tumours, with one exception (xix) were small. Patients have now got into the habit of applying for relief before these tumours acquire great bulk. In two cases inguinal hernia existed as a complication. In one (ix) the hernia was first radically cured by operation, and the scrotal tumour subsequently removed. In the other (xiii) both hernia and tumour were operat- ed on simultaneously. Both these cases recover- ed without a bad symptom. In one case (xv) epithelioma of the penis existed. It was not discovered until the preputial canal was slit up. The penis was amputated and tumour removed. The patient recovered. Stricture and urinaryPRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 30 fistulie complicated another case (xi) ; a perinseal channel for the outflow of urine was established before the tumour was removed. In another instance perinseal section without a guide (Cock’s operation) had to be resorted to the day after operation to relieve a distended bladder. c. Elephantiasis of labia. i. Hindu female, cet. 28. A tuberculated hard enlargement of both labia majora of syphi- litic origin removed by incision. The lips of the wounds were brought together with catgut. Some condylomatous growths were also removed from the anus. Discharged well in 43 days. ii. Hindu female, cet. 22. Similar case, simi- larly treated, with similar result. iii. Hindu female, cet. 25. Similar case, complicated with a recto-vaginal fistula. The tumours were removed and fistula laid open, llecovered in 31 days. iv. Hindu female, cet. 25. Similar case. The prepuce of the clitoris and anterior wall of the vagina were also thickened and there were condv- n> lomata around the anus, all the thickened parts were excised. The wound healed iu 10 days. v. Hindu female, cet. 26. Large pendulous tumours of left labium reaching to the knee ul- cerated at fundus. The elastic cord was applied as in scrotal tumours and the mass removed : edges of wound stitched after the vessels had been tied. Tumour weighed 141bs. llecovered iu 20 days. 2a. Lipoma of forehead.—Hiudu male,ce£. 20. A fatty tumour about the size of au orange situate in the centre of the forehead ; commencedPRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 31 at four years of age after an injury to the part by a fall. Exposed by elliptical incision and enucleated with ease. Wound healed by first intention. Discharged in 11 days. 2b. Lipoma of the neck.—Hindu male, at. 59. Fatty growth of three years’ duration situated at the nape of the neck, size of a bael fruit. Removed by incision. Wound healed by first intention. Discharged in 11 days. за. Myxoma of soft palate.—East Indian male,, at. 21. A hard tumour of ten mouths’ growth, situated to the right of the fauces and pushing the soft palate and uvula inward; mucous membrane moveable over tumour which could be felt obscurely behind the ramus of the jaw. A curved incision was made at the angle of the jaw, and another outwards and downwards from its convexity. This was deepened until the inner surface of the internal pterygoid muscle was reached. The tumour was got at by following this surface. It was enucleated by the-finger and removed by two scoops. A drainage tube was inserted and the corners of the wound stitched. The tumour was found to be a typical example of myxoma. Patient recovered in. 30 days. зб. Myxoma of the nose.—Mahomedau male, at. 63. Left nostril blocked and left nasal cavity dilated by a large polypoid mass of fifteen years’ growth. It protrudes in front and can be felt through the posterior nares. The nostril Avas freely slit aud the mass detached by chisel and scissors. A satisfactory recovery ensued in 11 days. (Dr. llaye.) 4. Angioma of lip.—i. Hindu male, cet. 18. A soft compressible swelling of right upperPRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 32 lip of two. years’ growth, size - of a walnut Hemorrhage was controlled by two polypus forceps closed by drainage tubing tied to the handles and meeting at, an angle. The growth was theu removed by a A-shaped incision, Several vessels were secured and the lips of the wound carefully approximated by silk and horse-hair stitches. Patient made a good . recovery in 16 days. ii. Hindu male, cat. 17. Has a large caver- nous angioma of right upper lip of two years’ duration. It was twice injected by saturated solution of tannin with partial success and finally excised by a A -shaped incision. A curved forceps made specially for the purpose was used to control bleeding during the two last operations. 5a. Sebaceous cyst of scalp.—Mahomedao male, cet. 60. Situated behind right ear size of an orange, commenced forty years ago. Dissect- ed out. Wound healed by granulation in 22 days. (Dr. Raye.) 5b. Sebaceous cyst of thigh. — Hindu male, CPt. 30. A cyst grew over the front of the left thigh to the size of an orange during the last two years, and was punctured by a native doctor a fortnight ago. A sinus remains. This was slit up, the cavity was laid open crucially and the wall of the cyst removed by a sharp spoon. It healed by granulation in 19 days. (Dr. Raye.) c. Bursal cyst of elbow.—European male, cut. 26. .A fluctuating swelling of the size of a hen’s egg over the right olecrauon process. It was aspirated but refilled and twelve days later dissected out. The wound healed by first inten- tion in 16 days. •fPRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 33 0. Condyloma of araws.--Eurftsi.ari mule, ad. 22. The condylomata were very large and ulcerated. They were removed by scissors. Made a good recovery in 37 days. 7. Removal of haemorrhoids.—One of these operations was performed by clamp and cautery, one bv ligature and excision and one by scissors. In this Dr. Rave carried out Whitehead’s plan in full detail. A satisfactory result was obtained in three weeks. One was a case of prolapse of the rectum in a Hindu male of 30. The disease dated from an attack of dysentery nine years ago. The protrusion measured 4 inches. Three wedge-shaped pieces of redundant mucous membrane including the skin of the anal verge, were removed by clamp and cautery. Patient left hospital apparently cured in 37 days. 8a. Removal of diseased cervical glands.—• 1. East Indian female, cet. 37. Glands of ieft side of neck enlarged from struma, three sinuses leading to them. The glands were enu- cleated and sinuses scraped, the wound stitched and drainage tubes inserted. Recovered in 78 days-. ii. iii. East Indian male, cet. 30. Both sides affected. Required two operations at a month’s interval. Recovered, detained in hospital for 27 days. (Dr. Raye.) 8b. Removal of .diseased axillary glands.— Hindu male, cet. 40. Sinuses in left axilla ending to enlarged glands. These were extir- pated and the sinuses scraped. Recovered in 24 day's. 8c. Removal of diseased inguinal glands.— In some of these sixteen cases the disease was of c34 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. strumous in others of venereal origin, in some ol both. Sinuses existed in some cases and not; - in others. The disease affected one or both sides. Efforts to procure resolution had failed in all. The diseased glands were exposed by incision and removed by enucleatioii or dissection accord- f{!! ing to the existence or otherwise of much adhe- D1' siou and matting. A satisfactory result was- tit" obtained in all the cases. VII. Removal of date-thorn from the foot.— Hindu male, cet. 13. A date-thorn entered the- 1 sole of the foot a year ago. The dorsum is now painful and swollen, and there is a sinus between the first two toes through which a hard rough substance can be detected. This was enlarged, and another opening made on the sole of the foot through which a date-thorn two inches long was extracted. The wound healed by granula- tion in 30 days. (Dr. Raye.) VIII. Cases of Litholapaxy. ie ;ul De Di i. Hindu male, cut. 60. Symptoms of eight j years’ duration. Two introductions of crushing •> and evacuating instruments sufficed. The debris: weighed 5 drs. 12 grs. Discharged in 16 davs. ii. Hindu male, cet. 59. Symptoms of five years’ duration. Two1 stones were detected, crushed and evacuated. The debris weighed ® 1 oz. 2 drs. Slight cystitis. Discharged in 9 davs.- (Dr. Rave.) • n'n iii. Mahornedan male, cet. 40. A stone i» weighing 2 oz. and 2 drs. was crushed and removed by five introductions. Slight cystitis followed. Discharged in 9 days. (Dr. Raye.) iv. Hindu male, cet. 40. Symptoms ol35 PRECIS OE OPERATIONS. 4 years’ duration. A calculus weighing 3 drs. 12 grs. was crushed and removed by four intro- ductions. No cystitis. Discharged iu 4 days. (Dr. Raye.) v. Hindu male, cet. 35. Symptoms of 1^- year’s duration. Six introductions necessary. Debris weighed 2 oz. 2 drs. 30 grs. The opera- tion was succeeded by fever and suppression of urine. Diarrhoea set in, and death ensued on the 7th day after operation. Both kidneys were extensively diseased. (Dr. Raye.) vi. Hindu male, cet. 35. Symptoms of two years’ duration. Eight introductions. Debris weighed 2 oz. 5 drs. 40 grs. The operation was followed by a sharp attack of cystitis, which subsided on the 5th day. Discharged in 23 days. (Dr. Raye.) vii. Hindu male, cet. 25. Symptoms of one year’s duration. Four introductions necessary. Debris weighed 1 oz. 1 dr. Slight cystitis. Discharged in 16 days. IX. Incisions. 1. Tracheotomy for laryngitis. •— Mahome- dan male, ait. 35. Admitted with urgent dyspnoea from laryngitis of two days’ duration. Tracheotomy was performed at once, but the man died of exhaustion iu five hours. 2. Incision for incarcerated inguinal her- nia.—Hindu male, cet. 55. Has had reducible xiglit inguinal hernia for 15 years. The hernia (descended a few hours before admission while straining at stool. Tumour tense and tympani- ttic. Symptoms of shock present. Taxis after (the application of ice failing, the neck of thePRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 3G sac was exposed, a tight band divided, and the contents returned without opening the sac. The pillars w.ere brought together with catgut and the wound stitched. It healed mostly by granu- lation, having been forced open by a descent ol the rupture in 23 days. Patient was discharged with a truss in 37 days. 3. Operation for strangulated inguinal her- nia.—i. Hindu male, cet. 40. The hernia des- cended and became irreducible two days before admission. Symptoms of obstruction and stran- • gulation well marked. The sac was laid open, and adherent omentum and a knuckle of smalj intestine exposed. The omentum was divided after ligature in sections and the bowel returned. The pillars were brought together and wound stitched without any further interference with the sac. The patient made a satisfactory reco- very in 43 days. (Dr. Paye.) ii. Hindu made, cet. 26. Strangulation ol nine days’ duration. Patient very prostrate. Tin sac was opened and the rupture found to be of the congenital variety. It contained matted omentum enclosing a coil of intestine. The |(I stricture was found on laying open the inguinal canal, to be caused by a ring of omentum. The omentum was removed after ligature ini sections and the gut returned. The sides ol the canal were brought together and the wound stitched. The patient suffered from shock for fout hi hours from which he recovered slowly. The wound healed by granulation in 41 days. (Dr. Kaye.) iii. Mahomedau male, cet. 30. Straugula-i tion of 16 hours’ duration. Condition very low ISac opened, stricture divided, and intestine iiic:?7 ri'.KCIS OF OPERATIONS. returned, wound stitched. Did not recover from prostration, and died in a few hours of exhaus- tion. (Dr. Raye.) iv. Mahomedan male, cet. 45. Left oblique inguinal hernia. Strangulation of eight days’ duration. Symptoms pronounced but not intense. Sac laid open, stricture (at external ring) divi- ded, and contents (omentum and small intestine) returned, and the operation was then completed as for radical cure. Patient made an excellent recovery in 38 davs. (Dr. Jameson.) v. Hindu male, cet. 40. Right oblique in- guinal ; strangulation of eight hours’ duration. Ice and taxis tried in vain. Operation as in last case. Recovered in 42 days. (Dr. Adie.) vi. Hindu male, cet. 29. Right oblique inguinal hernia. Strangulation of one day’s du- ration. Symptoms acute, patient very low. The sac was opened and found very much congested. Bowel and omentum exposed. The latter was adherent and was divided in sections and reliev- ed. The operation was completed as for radi- cal cure. Patient died of shock in 40 hours. (Dr. Jameson.) • 4. Operation for strangulated femoral her- nia.—Hindu male, cet. 30. The rupture occur- red under sudden and violent exertion tlire- days before admission. Bowels obstructed, vomiting. A tense tender tympanitic swelling at base of Scarpa’s triangle. Ice and taxis applied without effect. The bowel was exposed by careful dissection. There was no sac. The stricture was situated at Gimberuat’s ligament, which was divided. The hernia was then re- duced and the wound stitched. On the sixth dayPRECIS OF OPEKATIONS. ns fasces escaped from the wound, hut the fistula, closed spontaneously, and the wound healed in 22 davs. Discharged 24 • days after operation. (Dr.* Raye.) 5. Operations for the radical cure of hernia. i. Hindu male, ait. 40. Large right scrotal 1 hernia of two years1 duration. Has also got double hydrocele and scrotal elephantiasis. The sac was exposed, isolated, tied at the neck, and removed. The pillars were stitched too-ether. a counter opeuing made in the scrotum, and the wound closed and dressed antiseptically. Oper- ation perfmmed on 26th January. The parts healed kindly, and the scrotal tumour was re- moved on 27th February (see VI, 15. ix)! He was discharged well on the 14th of April. ii. Mahomedan male, cet. 25. Right oblique inguinal hernia of 18 years’ standing. The rupture was found to be congenital. The sac was removed and tunica pared close lo the testicle. The wound healed by first intention in eight days. Discharged with a truss in 27 days. 1 iii. Burmese male, cet. 27. Right oblique inguinal hernia. The usual operation was j performed. The wound healed by granulation.- Patient discharged in 56 days. iv. The operation in this case was perform- ed at the same time as for the removal of scro- tal tumour (see VI, 1 b. x). (Dr. Raye.) v. Mahomedan male, cet. 30. Right oblique inguinal hernia of two years’ duration. The usual operation was performed. The ring was laced with kangaroo tendon. The wound healed bv first intention in seven days, and patient was discharged in 21 days with a truss. (Dr. Raye.)PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 3<J vi. Hindu male, cot. 3. .Right oblique in- guinal hernia of two years’ duration. Usual operation. Wound healed by granulation. Dis- charged in 37 days. (Dr. Jameson.) vii. Hindu male, cat. 50. Left oblique in- guinal hernia of seven years’duration. Compli- cated with scrotal tumour and a slou'gbv ulcer on left side of scrotum. The usual operation was performed. The wound healed slowly by gra- nulation. Discharged in 70 days. .(Dr. Raye.} viii. Hindu male, cat. 22. Right oblique inguinal hernia of oue year’s duration. Usual operation. Wound healed by first intention in 16 days. Discharged in 39 days. ix. Hindu male, cet. 35. Left oblique in- guinal hernia. Subject to bronchitic asthma. Operation performed at patient’s earnest solici- tation in the usual manner. The patient died of double pneumonia eight days after operation. The wound remained aseptic and was healing kindly. x. Hindu male, cut. 36. Right oblique in- guinal hernia. Had two hydroceles which were successfully tapped and injected before the hernia operation was performed. The .wound healed by first intention, and he was discharged in 17 days. xi. Mahomedan male, cut. 40. Right oblique- inguinal hernia. He had been operated on one year and seven months’ ago in the hospital.. ITe remained well for a year, but, during the last seven mouths, a new hernial protrusion has formed in the site of the old. The abdominal walls are very lax. He has a hernia on the left side also. The usual operation was performed.40 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. Some difficulty was experienced in dissecting out the sac which was closely adherent to the tissues surrounding it, in consequence of the former operation. At its fundus, a ring of thick tissue with central hollow, the expanded neck, of the previous sac, was found. Special care was- taken to close the aperture. The cavity of the wound got filled with blood and he suffered from fever and bronchitis for 11 days. The woundi gaped and healed by granulation. He was dis- charged cured with a double truss in 45 days. xii. European male, cut. 12. Left oblique inguinal hernia. Usual operation. Made an ex- cellent recovery in 19 days. *** The steps of the operation performed in these cases were precisely the same as described, in full detail in previous reports. A counter opening was made in the scrotum for drainage in all cases. In most of the cases a well fitting truss would, no doubt, have kept the rupture under control ; but patients of the classes who resort to hospital canuot afford to purchase trus- ses, and when they are supplied with them, they have not the sense to wear them properly, and they soon become useless, and are causes rather of danger than help. The operation in the fatal case was performed at the repeated and earnesti request of the patient, rather against my judg- ment. He had delicate lungs, and though be was kept under treatment, and with benefit for some time, he developed double pneumonia very soon after the operation and died of it. None of the other cases gave any cause for anxiety. Each patient was provided with a truss on discharge with, injunctions to wear it for six months.PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 41 None of them have been seen or heard of since tiie operation, except No. xi, who has come this year to get the left hernia operated on. This has been done successfully ; the right side remains firm. This man has undergone three operations for rupture. 6a. Laparotomy for obstruction. — Hindu male, cat. 20. Bowels completely obstructed for 28 hours, vomited several times, abdomen tym- panitic and tender, dilated coils visible, very restless and anxious, clammy sweats, pulse small and soft. The belly was opened, and- intestines, which were much distended and congested, were systematically examined from end to end, but no cause of obstruction found. Patient died of shock 10^ hours after the operation. On post- mortem examination, the intestines were found to be congested, but no cause of obstruction could be discovered, except a baud of mesentery crossing a loop of small intestine in the right iliac fossa. (Dr. Raye.) b. Laparotomy for wound of stomach.—Ma- homedan female, eet. 40, sustained a stab ia the left hypochondrium caused by, a clasp knife. Particles of food are said to have come through it. The abdomen is painful, and patient somewhat collapsed. The external wound was enlarged,.and search made for the intestinal wound, which was found in the upper curvature of the stomach. It was stitched by Lembert’s method, and the peri- toneal cavity having been thoroughly cleansed, the external wound was stitched, a drainage being inserted. A gastric fistula formed, which eventu- ally closed without further operation, and patient left the hospital well in 73 days. (Dr. Raye.)PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. ■12 7. Lumbar colotomy.—Eurasian female, at. 40. Case of malignant, stricture of the rectum with obstruction ; the disease can be detected by rectal examination. The lumen of the gut is almost obliterated. Purgatives have been tried, without effect. The intestines are much dis- tended with faeces and flatus, and the patients con- dition is very miserable. The descending colon was opened in the left loin without difficulty. The operation gave great relief. Fluid faeces- in large quantities came freely through the opening. Patient died of exhaustion five days after the operation. 8a. Tenotomy for talipes equinus.— Hindu male, at. 13. The condition resulted from a sprain of the ankle joint sustained a year and a half ago. The tendo-achillis was divided subcutaneously, the ankle joint flexed, and the limb put on a McIntyre splint. The patient’s stay in hospital was prolonged by a sloughing ulcer, which was caused by the pressure of the foot piece of the splint on the pad of the toes. He left after 106 days’ residence with a useful foot. 8b. Tenotomy for talipes equino-varus.— Hindu male, at. 11. The deformity is due to infantile paralysis, the tendo-achillis, tibialess muscles and, plantar fascia were divided and suit- able splints applied. He left hospital with a use- ful limb after. 84 days’ residence. (Dr. Raye.) c. Tenotomy for flexion of hip-joint.— Hijidu male, at. 17. Admitted with burrowing, sinuses of right groiu and thigh, which were laid open and scraped. In healing they caused acute flexion of the hip-joint. Iu order to43 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. remedy tliis condition, the rectus femoris tendon was'divided subcutaneously near its origin. In stretching the limb the skin gave way trans- versely, and a lozeuge-shaped wound resulted. This was enlarged and deepened so as to remove all resistance to straightening. The wound was dressed autiseptically, and a weight attached to the limb for extension. When the wound healed he was allowed to walk about with crutches and a bag containing 41b. of shot, put round the ankle. Under this treatment he left with a' straight and useful limb after having spent 7 months and 2 days in hospital. 9. Incision for suppurated mastoid cells.— Hindu female, cet. 7. Admitted with a tense painful swelling behind right ear and running of pus from the ear. The soft parts were divided with a knife and the bone with a chisel. Dis- charged well in 15 days. .(Dr. Raye.)- 10. Incision for hcematocele.—In these three cases the cavity was inflamed, and was laid open by free incision, rendered and kept aseptic and treated for granulation. A cure was obtained in 44, 48, and 49 days. 11. Incision for inflamed hydrocele.—These three cases were treated similarly by free incision and drainage under antiseptic precautions. The tunica is not so diseased in such cases aud smaller openings suffice. The cavity is also more quickly obliterated. 12. Incision for stricture of rectum.—Hindu female,' oet. 80. The stricture was syphilitic and associated with ulcerated piles. The stricture was divided backwards and the piles removed. She recovered iu 90 days. (Dr. Raye.)PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 44 13. Incision for atresia oris.—Hindu male, c cet. 20, A cicatricial contraction of lef t cheek near the angle due to bad gumboil ; cicatrix divided { freely, and mouth forced open by screw gag, which t was applied at intervals. Recovered in 27 days, i 14. Internal urethrotomy. — Hindu male, cet. 31. Stricture divided from behind with Civiale’s t urethrotome, and a No. 12 metallic catheter passed. * Discharged with a fully dilated urethra |l in 19 days. (Dr. Raye.) . i 15fl. Perinceal section with a guide (Syme's operation).—i. Mahomedan male, cet. 30. Ad- mitted with urinary fistula (scrotal and pubic) and elephantiasis of scrotum. The periuaeum was- divided, the urethra freely laid open on a guide and a Syme’s catheter tied in. This was done on the 12th of February. The fistulae closed, and the elephantiasis was removed ou the 25th of: March. (See VIE. 15. xi). ii. Hindu male, ait. 45. Admitted with uri- nary fistulae (perinaeal and scrotal) and internal piles. Health indifferent. The periuaeum was laid open, the urethra opened freely on a guide and a Syme’s catheter tied in, and retained for two days. The piles were removed by Whitehead’s method. He had smart fever for two days which subsided. A full-sized bougie was easily passed ou the 6th day. On the 9th day the perinaeal wound became sloughy, and he got hiccup and prostration. He lingered on till the lltli day and died of exhaustion. Post-mortem examin- ation was not made. b. Perinceal section without a guide (Cock’s operation.)—i. Hindu male, ait. 35. Admitted with perinaeal abscess and retention. A catheterPRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 45 S could not be passed. The abscess was opened, and the. urethra divided in trout of the apex ot prostate. Syme’s catheter was passed into the the bladder and tied in. Patient left hospital in 12 days. (Dr. Raye.) ii. Hindu male, cet. 32. Admitted with re- I teution aud bleeding from the urethra due to unsuccessful catlieterism before admission. Owing to the existence of false passages an instrument could not be introduced into the bladder. The prostatic urethra was opened by Cock’s method, and a Syme’s catheter in- troduced and tied iu. Patient left hospital iu 13 days. (Dr. Raye.) iii. Hindu male, cet. 38. Has suffered from stricture for 8 years. An abscess formed in Jperimeo 6 days ago, and when trying to make I water on the morning pf admission, he felt some- I thing give way, and the periiueum aud scrotum swelled shortly afterwards. An instrument could not be introduced into the bladder, aud Cock’s operation was performed and a Syme’s | catheter introduced. An attempt was then made to divide the stricture by Wheelhouse’s method, but nothing could be got to pass through it. Incisions were made iu the scrotum. Patient suffered from cystitis for a few days, and ab- sconded 36 days after operation, He was urinat- ing comfortably. (Dr. Raye.) iv. Hindu male, cet. 65. Admitted with cystitis aud ammoniacal uriue due to enlarged prostate. The bladder was emptied with No. 2 catheter with some difficulty, and was washed out with a 1 per cent, solution of boracic acid. The instrument had been used thrice daily, aud.PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 46 each introduction was followed by shock an<‘ fever. On the 7th day after admission the urethrr was opened in front of the prostate, and a sof;: catheter passed and tied in. It was removec in two days on account of the man’s restlessness- The bladder was then regularly emptied anc washed out by introducing the instrument pei perinaeo which was easily accomplished. Hi died of exhaustion on the 9th day. v. Hindu male, cet. 25. Admitted with extra* vasatiou of urine reaching above the umbilicus- Scrotum prepuce and perinaeum sloughing.* Stric- ture of 4 years’ standing. Repeated attacks of retention. Had not made water for 48 hour, before admission. Urethra lacerated by unsuc- cessful attempts to introduce the catheter before admission. The urethra was opened by Cock’; method and a Syme’s catheter passed therein; Free incisions were made into the sloughy anc oedematous parts. These incisions suppurat.ee and sloughed, and while the sloughs were ii process of separation, and the wounds beginning to granulate the man sank from exhaustion It days after the operation. vi. Hindu male, cet. 50. Had been operate! on for scrotal tumour (YIB. 16. xxiv), and ii trying to relieve his bladder by catheter nex day a false passage was made. The urethrr was opened by Cock’s method and a Syme’ catheter passed in and retained for two days The periiueal wound closed in 27 days, aud Ip left hospital micturating normally when tin scrotal wound closed. c. Wlieelliouse s operation for stricture.— Hiudu male, cet. 50. Admitted with stricture j47 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. >f long standing and urinary fistula; in periiueo. A. filiform whalebone bougie was passed into the iladder and Wheelhouse’s bougie down to the stricture which was divided. The penile urethra vas found to be narrow and was divided by a irethrotome. The urethra then admitted a No. 9 catheter. A Syme’s catheter was passed ler perinseo and retained. The urethra was gradually dilated to the full size, the perinssal wound healed, and he left hospital 37 days after he operation. (Dr. Raye.) 16. Incisions for sinuses.—These resulted from abscesses in unhealthy subjects which had not been skilfully treated in the first instance. The procedure followed consisted in laying them open freely, scraping thoroughly with a sharp spoon, rendering the cavities aseptic, and keeping them to rest, suitable constitutional treatment being at the same time attended to. The result in all cases was favourable, though in some instances the period of repair was some- what prolonged. 17. Large abscesses.—Six of the cases in- cluded under this heading were iliac abscesses, 1 ilio-lumbar, 1 lumbar, 1 mediostinal, 2 popli- teal, 1 cervical, and 1 multiple.. Antiseptic man- agement was scrupulously carried out, and the result was favourable in all cases, though some of the collections were deep and the incisions required to reach them formidable. X. Reparative Operations. 1. For cicatrix after burn.—Male Hindu child, cgi. 7. The right arm adhered to the side of the chest and the forearm to the front of the48 PRECI8 OF OPERATIONS. arm by means of cicatricial bands caused by con- traction resulting from a burn sustained three years ago. These bands were completely divid ed, and flaps of skin taken from the neighbour- hood and laid on the raw surfaces. Care wa taken during the process of repair to prevent re- production of the deformity. A'satisfactory re- sult was obtained in 82 days. 2. For epispadias and extroverted bladder.— Mahomedan male, bet. 10. Roof of urethra anterior wall of bladder and corresponding portion of anterior abdominal wall deficient. Hori- zontal ramus of pubes undeveloped, penis ver} small, andtied down to pubes, testes undesceuded posterior wall of bladder protruding, ureter! visible. Wood’s operation was successfully per- formed by Dr. Raye, aud a second operation of tin same sort lower down by Dr. McLeod. These operations provided a covering for the bladder and reduced the size of the opening into it, sc- that although constant dribbliug of urine con- tinued, the patient’s condition was much more comfortable. The case was in fact reduced tc one of aggravated epispadias. 3. For vesico-vaginal fistula.—Hindu female. ait. 60. Prolapsus of uterus and anterior wall of the vagina in which there is a large hole revealing the interior of the bladder which is also prolapsed. These conditions are said tc be due to a fall sustained eight months ago. . The edges of the fistula were carefully pared and the sides of the rent brought accurately together by silk stitches while the parts were prolapsed. The prolapsus was then returned aud the parts kept in position by carbolized tow, a catheter49 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. * being retaiued in the bladder. The stitches cut their way out and the rent gaped. Patient declined a second operation. (Dr. Jameson.) 4. For hernia testis.—Hindu male, cet. 30. Syme’s operation was performed by Dr. Raye after scraping off some sloughs and paring the tunica. Patient left hospital on the 17th day after operation with a granulating ulcer. 5. For protrusion of the omentum through an abdominal wound.—Hindu male child, cet. 7. Sustained a wound of right hypochoudrium by falling on a piece of glass. Omentum pro- truded, the wound was slightly enlarged, the omentum thoroughly washed with an antiseptic lotion and reduced, and the wound carefully stitched. It healed by first intention, and the child left hospital perfectly well in 11 days. (Dr. Jameson.) 6. For 'ulcer of the sole of the foot.—Hindu male, cet. 22. The skin of the sole of the right foot was entirely removed by the claws of an alligator. When the sloughs separated, four flaps were taken from the sides of the foot, and stitched with catgut on the granulating sur- face. This proceeding greatly accelerated repair, and the sole got eventually covered with strong cicatricial material. ' XI. Operations not Classed. 1. Rapid dilatation of stricture.—In these four cases of stricture dilatation .was accom- plished by means of Lister’s probe pointed gra- duated bougies. The dilatation was maintained by passing the full-sized instrument (9-12) every third or fourth day. I have found this to be • DPRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 50 quite the easiest and most efficient method of treating stricture of the urethra. It is as well to administer chloroform on the first occasion. If 0-3 of the series can be passed, and with patience and care it seldom happens that this cannot be done, the rest is easy. Sometimes the preliminary use of the fine straight bougie- probe facilitates the all important initial step of introducing the 0-3 bougie. In very irritable aud tight strictures it is better to stop at .6-9 and continue the dilatation up to 9-12 a few days afterwards. 2. Aspiration of the bladder.—This was resorted to by the resident surgeon to. relieve urgent retention. The stricture was subse- quently treated successfully by rapid dilatatiou. 3. Reduction of prolapsus of the rectum.— Patieut, a Hindu male, cat. 22, was admitted with an cedematous sloughy prolapse of the rectum, measuring 4 inches in length and 6 inches in circumference, which had descended 10 days pre- viously, aud remained unreduced during the whole of that period. The mass was reduced with some difficulty under chloroform, the sloughs separated, and the resulting ulcers healed. No return of the prolapse occurred during the 11 days he remained in hospital, and he has not been heard of since. General Remarks. Mortality,.—The death-rate for 1889 was un- precedentedly low, namely, 5-85 per cent, of cases treated to the end. On referring to the list of fatal cases, I find that in the majority of them the result was due to conditions existing before51 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. the operation, and for whose removal or cure it was performed in vain. Eight out of the 14 cases came under this category. In the remainder the “ shock ” and “ exhaustion ” indicate a combination of causes of which the operation was one and the last. The most precise and regretable cause of death was pneumonia' in the fatal operation for hernia. No case died of septic causes per se, but in the urinary cases, septicity no doubt contributed to death. Antiseptics and hospitalism. — Bichloride of mercury was used as lotion and dressing al- most to the exclusion of every other agent. Boracic acid and iodoform were employed as deep dressings. In some cases mercurial irritation of the skin occurred, but in none were any constitutional effects of mercury observed. The wounds remained sweet and underwent repair kindly in the large majority of cases, and we have now learned to look upou hospitalism in any shape as a rare experience, except, as hap- pens occasionally, when imported from without; for though antiseptic surgery is largely and suc- cessfully carried out in private practice, cases oc- cur mostly outside of Calcutta in which the treat- ment of wounds aud injuries has been faulty.PRECIS OF OPERATIONS PERFORMED IN THE WARDS OF THE FIRST SURGEON, MEDICAL COLLEGE HOSPITAL. During tliv year 1S90. By Brigade-Surgeon K. McLEOD, A.M., M.D., F. R.C.S.E., Professor of Surgery, Calcutta Medical College. The following record is the tenth of the series, and is drawn up according to the same classification and arrangement as the preceding nine. These wards were under my charge during the whole year with exception of a short period of leave in Octolnr. Some of tlie oper- ations were performed by the Resident Staff, and the name of the operator is attached to them. i My assistant during the whole period was Assistant-Surgeon Syama Nirod Das Gupta, M.B., for whose willing and skilful aid 1 am greatly indebted, both as regards the practical ward work and the preparation of these records. Table of Operations performed during 1S90. I. Operations on Arteries. No. Died. 1. Ligature of internal pudic artery ... 1 0 II. Operations on Veins. 1. Ligature and excisiou of varicocele after exposure by antiseptic incision t... 2 0 A2 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 4 Total 34 III. Operations on Joints. No. Died, 1. Reduction of dislocation— a Hip-joint 0 0 b Knee-joint 1 0 o Elbow-joint 3 0 2. Forcible movement of stiff joints— a Knee... 2 0 b Elbow t 0 c Wrist... 2 0 d Temporo-maxillary 1 0 3. Incision of knee-joint— a for injury 1 0 b for suppuration ... 2 0 4. Evasion of joints— a Astragalo-scaphoid 1 0 b Calcaneo-cnboid ... 1 0 c Scaphoid-cuneiform 1 0 6. Excision of elbow-joint s> 0 7. Removal of astragalus for dislocation i 0 Total 28 0 IV. Operations on Bones. i. Sequestrotomy and evasion 22 0 2. Wiring fractured patella 1 0 5. Resection of bones— a femur in conical stump 1 0 b humerus for compound fractures 2 0 c radius for compound fracture 2 1 d ribs for empyema 2 1 4. Trephining of mastoid process i 0 6. Trephining of skull— a for recent fracture ... 2 2 b for traumatic epilepsy i 0PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 1. 2. .3. 4. 3 4). 7. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. <i. 7. 8 I. V. Amputations. A.—For Injury. Primary through shoulder joint ,, of arm „ of forearm ,, of fingers aud toes ... ,, of leg Secondary of arm for gangrene „ of fingers and toes for necrosis Total for Injury B.—For Disease. Of the thigh for disorganized kuee-jo ,, for sarcoma Of the leg for gangrene or necrosis Same’s for mycetoma ,, for diseased tarsus Chopart’s for necrosis Hey's for necrosis ... Of toes for .gangrene Total for Disease No. Died. 1 1 2 3 2 2 3 Grand Total of Amputations ... 2 VI. 4. Removal of Tumours (by Excis A.— Malignant, Epithelioma.— a of cheek l of tongue e of penis d of scrotum e of hip Scirrhus— a of jaw b of neck Sarcoma— a of antrum b of lower jaw o of testis Naso-pharyngeal polypus (by eoraseur and avulsionj 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 . 14 1 2 0 i 0 .. 3 0 .. 1 0 .. 3 0 .. 1 0 .. 1 0 . 1 0 .. 13 0 .. 27 1 3ION.) . 1 0 . 1 0 . 3 0 . 1 0 . 1 0 . 1 0 . 1 0 . 1 0 1 0 . 1 0 2 0 Total ... 14 0PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. ... 2 0 Total B.—A'on-Malignant. 1. Elephantiasis— a of prepuce l) of scrotum c of labia 2. Fibroma — a of upper jaw b of lower jaw c of ischio-recbal fossa d of thigh e of leg 3. Myxoma of nose (avulsion) 4. Angioma of lip (injection) (excision) 5. Adenoma of mamma C. Lymphadenoma of axilla 7. Keloid of sheuld-er 8. Exostosis of external meatus 9. Cyst— a Sebaceous of scalp b „ of neck o „ of groin 10. Condyloma 11. Gumma 12. Lupus of nose 13. Diseased glands — a cervical h axillary e inguinal 14. Hcemorrhoids Total Grand Total of Tumours VII. Removal of Foreign Bodies. 1. Piece of wood from neck 2. Stalk of grass from bladder Ko. Died. .. 1 o' .. 24 0 ..2 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 2 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 2 0 1 0 1 0 2 0 1 0 1 0 ... 2 0 1 0 .. 14 0 ... 3 0 .. 68 0 ... 82 .0 ... 1 0 ... 1 0PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 5 Total ... 100 14 YIII. Removal of Calculi. No. Died 1. Vesical, by litholapaxy 7 1 2. „ by lithotomy— 0 a lateral 4 b Median 2 0 Total 13 1 IX. Incisions. 1. Lary n go- tvach eo tomy... 1 0 2. Laryngotomy 1 1 3. Herniotomy for strangulation (sac opened)... 6 4 4. Radical cure of hernia— a inguinal 19 2 b ventral 1 1 5. For imperfectly descended testis 1 0 6. Laparotomy— a for injury ... 1 1 b for obstruction 1 1 7. Tenotomy— a for contracted hamstrings 2 0 b for talipes equinus 1 0 o for talipes equino-varus... 4 0 8. Division of congenital contraction of meatus uriuarius 2 0 9. Internal urethrotomy 1 0 10. External urethrotomy— a Cock’s 3 2 b Svine’s 7 1 c Whee'lhouse’s 5 1 11. Incision for imperforate anus ... 1 0 12. .. stricture of anus 1 0 13. ., ,, of rectum... 2 0 14. .. recto-vaginal fistula i 0 15. Scrotal abscesses 6 0 16. Abscesses 24 0 17. Sinuses 9 0PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 6 X. Reparative Operations. No Died. 1. For eefcropion ... ... ..2 0 2. „ closing a gap in the cheek ... ... 2 0 S, „ restoring perineum 2 0 4. ,, ulcers on bony prominences... ... 2 0 Total ... 8 0 XT. Operations not Classed. 1. Cauterising prolapsed rectum ... 3 0 2. Radical cure of procidentia recti ... 1 0 3. Paracentesis of bladder 1 0 4. Erasion of lupus ... 3 0 5. of rodent ulcer ... 1 0 6. Continuous dilatation of stricture ... 6 0 Total ... 15 0 Grand Total ... 31 2 20 Death-rate per eent. ... ... 6-41 Operations on Arteries. I. Ligature of internal pudic.—Hindu male, crt. 3. Lateral lithotomj7 was performed on the 27tli of July. The stone was successfully ex- tracted with slight loss of blood. On the 31st the wound bled profusely from the left side. Plugging failed to stop the haemorrhage, and immediate ligature was tried without, effect. A loop of catgut was passed round the left internal pudic artery with a curved needle and tied firmly. The haemorrhage stopped at once, and did not recur. Patient was discharged well on the 12th of August. Operations on Veins. i. TAgature and excision of varicocele after exposure by antiseptic incision.—East. Indian male, cat. 21. Varicocele of left cord of four -A7 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. years’ duration. The mass was exposed and ligatured in two places—above the testicle and at the internal ring—and then excised. The wound remained aseptic and healed by first in- tention in 11 days. ii. Hindu male, cat. 23. Varicocele of right side of one and a half years’ duration. A simi- lar operation was performed. The upper end accidentally escaped out of the catgut loop into the inguinal canal, hut was “ fished ” out by clamp forceps and retied after transfixion. The wound healed by first intention in ten days. A hydrocele on the same side was successfully tapped and injected a few days after. * *In both these cases a small drainage tube was inserted and retained for a few days. The result of the operation in both cases was highly satisfactory. III. Operations on Joints. \a. Reduction of dislocation of hip-joint.— In two of these cases of 3 and 42 days’duration reduction was effected by manipulation under chloroform. The joint was kept at rest for a fortnight, and movement, was then resumed. In another case of 36 days’ duration extension by puliies was required and succeeded after manipulation had failed. In another case of seven days’ duration the rim of the acetabulum had been broken and the head of the bone escaped out of the cavity as soon as the traction was dis- continued. A satisfactory result was obtained by continued extension by means of pully and weight for a month. The joint was a little stiff but useful. In another case of dorsal dislocation of ten days’ standing reduction was effected8 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. by manipulation, but on removing the long splint after 16 days the head of the femur was found to have escaped. A second reduction was effect- ed by manipulation, and after 29 days’ rest the joint was found to be in a satisfactory and serviceable state. 16. Reduction of knee-joint.—This was a case of oblique fracture of the head of the right tibia in a Hindu male, cet. 40, caused by a fall off a tree. There was well marked dislocation outwards of the tibia and fibula. This was remedied by traction with pullies, and the limb was kept on a Maointyre splint for a month. The result was satisfactory. Ic. Reduction of dislocation of elbow-joinf. —i. European male, cet. 33. Backward dislo- cation of radius caused by a fall off a phsetonj Reduced under chloroform by forcible flexion. Good result in 36 days. ii. Hindu male, cet. 18. Backward disloca- tion of both bones of six weeks’ standing. Limb (right) nearly straight. Reduction was effected under chloroform, and by subsequent manipula- tion a useful joint, was obtained. He remained 42 days in hospital. iii. H indu male, cet. 22. Backward disloca- tion of both bones of right elbow-joint with fracture of the head of the radius caused by fall off horse back. The limb was.nearly straight. By forcible flexion under chloroform partial reduc- tion was effected. Subsequent manipulation was repeatedly resorted to, but mobility could not be permanently restored and excision of the joint became necessary (see case III, 6, iv infra.)PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 9 2n. Forcible movement of stiff knee-joints.—• In both these cases the joint was fixed in a flexed position and forcibly straightened under chloro- form. In one case movement was restored, in the other, the li<>amentum patellae gave way under manipulation, and the limb was treated for ankylosis in a straight instead of angular position. 2b. Forcible movement of stiff elbow-joint.— The stiffening resulted from arthritis of gonorr- liceal origin in a Hindu male of 30. Repeated manipulations under chloroform were required; but eventually a useful range of movement was obtained. 2c. Forcible movement of stiff wrist-joint and fingers.—In one of these cases the stiffening was due to compound Colies’s fracture, in the other to cellulitis and ulceration induced by tight bandaging. In both cases the joint, and tendons were moved in detail under chloroform, and the use of the hand restored. 2d. Forcible movement, of temporo-mcixillnry joint.—Hindu male child, cet. 6. Both joints stiffened in consequence of severe parotitis and the condition of atresia established. Movement was restored by repeated application of the screw- 2ii<r. 3a. Incision of knee-joint for injury.—Hindu male, cet. 35. Struck the inside of the knee with an axe two days ago. Wound sloughv- looking and discharge putrid. The joint has been opened and is inflamed ; thigh and leg puffy, temperature 101'8.° Patient was chloroformed, and a free incision was made into the joint above the patella on its inner side. The joint cavity10 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. was thoroughly irrigated with bichloride lotion, and a tube passed through the wound, another across the joint above the patella; antiseptic dressing was applied. Pyrexia subsided in three days. One tube was removed in five days, and the other gradually shortened and removed in 38 days. Wound closed in 43 days. The joint was rather stiff! but useful when he left hospital after a residence of 92 days. 3b. Incision of knee-joint for suppuration.—• i. Hindu male, at. 25. His left knee-joint fill- ed with fluid while he was sufferincr from re- mittent fever. On exploring, the fluid was found to be purulent. Patient emaciated and suffer- ing from fever, spleen enlarged. The joint was laid open under antiseptic precautions and a drainage tube inserted. The fever subsided and discharge, which was at first copious, gradu- ally diminished. The tube was gradually short- ened, and the wound closed in 37 days. Patipnt discharged after 104 days with a stiff but use- ful joint. ii. Hindu male, cet. 18. Acute arthritis of left knee-joint of six days’ duration. Limb oede- inutous. Suffering from high fever. Joint greatly distended. Fluid found on exploration to be pu- rulent. A free incision was made under anti- septic. precautions and a tube iuserted. This was gradually shortened and removed after 33 days; but re-accumulation occurred and re-insertion became necessary. Two counter-openings lwul to be made on the 68th day, on account of bag- ging and tubes were inserted. These openings gradually closed, and patient left hospital after a stay of 184 days with a straight stiff-joint.11 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 14o. Erosion of astrognlo-scuphoid joint.— Hindu male, at. 40. History of syphilis: Ad- | mitted with open astragah--scaphoid joint, the | result of inflammation, commencing five months ago. There were three sinuses converging to- I wards the joint. These were laid open, and their I walls and the joint, cavity thoroughly scraped with (a sharp spoon. The cavity was stuffed withborat- ed lint sprinkled with iodoform. The case did well for a few weeks when the foot became painful I and puffy. Bare hone was discovered, and ampu- tation performed by Syme’s method. 4b. Erosion of the calc a neo-cuboid joint.— Native Christian female, at.. 25. Sprained her right ankle about, a month previously. Inflam- ! mation ensued, which resulted in an abscess situ- ated opposite to tbe calcaneo-cuboid joint. This was laid open. The cuboid was found bare and joint open. The cavity was scraped thoroughly, I and the wound healed antiseptically. It did well for ten days, and then swelling, pain and fever recurred, and Syme’s amputation was performed. There was also a history of svphilis in this case. 4c. Erosion of the scaphoid-cuneiform joint. —East Indian male, act. 21. This patient, who had recently suffered from syphilis, got disease of the calcaneo-cuboid joint, which was treated by erasion in December 1889. The cavity heal- ed kindly, but a small sinus remained. In July 1890, a similar condition was found to exist in the joint between the scaphoid and cuneiform bones. The old sinus was laid open and well scraped, and the diseased joint also laid open by a fresh incision, and the carious tissue removed. The process of repair was very slow, but even-PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 12 tually the wounds closed, ami patient left hospi- tal in January 1891 with a useful foot. 6. Excision of the elbow-joint..—i. Hindu female, CGt.. 50. Admitted with an open left elbow-joint, the result of a puncture made by a barber for suppurative inflammation about six weeks ago. The joint was found to be thoroughly disorganized, and the articular etids of the bones were removed through a straight posterior inci- sion. Repair was somewhat delayed by the sharp edge of the humerus working through the skin. This required a small operation. Even- tually an excellent result was obtained. Remain- ed in hospital 78 days. ii. Armenian male, at. 45. Sustained a wound of left elbow-joint in Burmah six months ago. Firm anchylosis has resulted. The joint was exposed by straight posterior incision, the olecranon process removed, the articular ends forcibly separated and excised. The wound re- mained aseptic and healed by first intention. Passive motion wasresorted on the!Pth day. Dis- charged with a useful arm in 60 days. iii. Hindu male, oat. 35. Sustained dislo- cation and fracture of elbow 36 days ago. Joint fixed in a nearly straight position. It was opened bv straight incision from b^hiud, and the ends of the bones removed. The* external con- dyle and coronoid process were detached and found embedded in callus. There was trouble- some oozing for a week, hut the wound remain- ed sweet, and healed bv first intention. Discharg- ed with a useful arm in 56 days. iv. Hindu male, cut. 22. This was also a backward dislocation of the elbow-joint,in whiqh13 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. nn unsuccessful attempt at reduction had been made. [See case 111, lc, iii supra.'] The ends of the bones were removed as in the hist case. The wound healed by first intention, and a satisfactory result was obtained. Spent 69 days in hospital. v. Hindu male, at. 25. Left elbow-joint fixed in a nearly straight position in consequence of gonorrhoeal arthritis. Movement had been res- tored by manipulation three months ago,but only for a time. The joint was excised in the usual manner. The wound healed by first intention, and a satisfactory result was obtained in 31 days. 7. Removal of the astragulus for dislocation. — Hindu male, at. 53. Sustained outward dislo- cation of right ankle-joint two months ago. Foot extremely inverted, and the limb is quite useless for support or progression. The left lower ex- tremity useless from congenital atrophy. The astragalus was exposed by a T-shaped incision and removed in two portions. The dislocation was reduced and the wound treated for aseptic closure by granulation. This took place in 31 days. The patient left hospital in 61 days with a serviceable limb. IV. Operations on Bones. 1. Sequestra tomy and evasion.— The twenty- two cases included under this head present a con- siderable variation in respect of causation and degree of bone disease ; but they were treated, ou precisely the same principles, namely, free exposure of the site of disease by incision and thorough remov 1 of diseased and dead tissue (hard and soft] by forceps, chisel, gouge, sharp14 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. spoon ami osteotrite. Antiseptic measures were invariably employed, in some cases preventively when the skin remained whole, but in most cases correctively when sinuses led to the cavitv containing the dead or carious hone. Several of the cases were due to injury recent or remote; and in some of the latter constitutional condi- tions accentuated or perpetuated the mischief caused by the noxa. Some were the result of broken-down gummata, strumous or syphilitic. But in many cases the bone death was due to acute inflammatory processes untreated or ag- gravated by maltreatment and unrest. In one such case neglected abscess of the scalp in a Hindu lad of 19 led to extensive necrosis of tbe skull. Notwithstanding free opening and removal of loose fragments of dead bone, para- lysis and epileptiform fits supervened, and the patient was removed in a moribund state. In another case acute abscess of tbe cheek causing alveolar necrosis was due to the eruption of a wisdom tooth in a lad of 18. Cases of atresia oris caused by inflammatory changes in the soft parts set up by tbe lower wisdom teeth in pro- cess of eruption are not uncommon in India. Extraction of tbe widsom tooth or of tlie second molar is generally necessarj', and division of the cicatricial band with subsequent use of the screw-gag. The great majority of tbe cases responded satisfactorily to t he measures employ- ed, but in some cases very slowly ; while in others repeated operations were necessary. In all cases constitutional remedies were resorted to when they appeared to be advisable or necessary. 2. Wiring fractured patella. — MuhoinedauPRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 15 male, cet. 35. Sustained an injury of right knee- joint 17 months ago. The joint was laid open, and patella severed in two by the tusk of a wild boar. The wound healed in six months, I leaving the fragments of the patella far apart, and the joint in a stiff and semiflexed position. The joint can now be flexed, but not extended beyond an angle of 120°. The limb is almost use- less. The hamstring tendons were first divided subcutaneously, and the limb straightened on a ! Macintvre splint, and seven days afterwards, the part continuing weak, a return of flexion threaten- ing owing to the absence of extensor power, I the following operation was performed. The frag- ments were exposed by a longitudinal incision. They were about three inches apart, the upper large and firmly fixed to the trochlear surface of the femur, the lower small and sunk into the intercondyloid notch, borne cicatricial tissue was removed from between them, their opposed surfaces freshened by the chisel and the upper loosened from its adhesions to the femur. It I was now found that approximation of the frag- I ments was impossible. The incision was ac- cordingly prolonged upwards, and the quadri- I ceps extensor divided by a W-shaped incision i after the manner of Lister. The fragments theu I came together, and were drilled and wired. The tips of the W were united by catgut. Lateral openings were made for drainage, and the I wound put up antiseptically. The wound re- j mained aseptic, and healing took place without : local or constitutional disturbance. The tubes 1 were gradually shortened, and finally withdrawn i on the 16th and 20th day. The limb was put16 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. up in gum and chalk after the wounds had quite healed, and patient was allowed to get about on crutches. He was discharged 109 days after operation. The joint was free of swelling and pain; he could walk with comfort. No movement existed at the knee-joint, which was anchylosed in a nearly straight position. Bony union had taken place between the frag- ments. The wires remained in situ and caused no irritation. 3a. Resection of femur for conical stump.— Hindu male, cet. 30. This was a phthisical pa- tient- who had undergone amputation at the middle of the thigh for disorganized knee-joint and abscesses. The healing process was very slow and feeble, and the soft parts fell away from the bone which protruded out of the cen- tre of the wound. Forty-two days after the amputation a straight incision was made over the bone, and the protruding portion sawn off. This wound healed slowly by granulation, and the patient left hospital two months after the last operation. 3b. Resection of the humerus for compound fracture.—One of these cases was recent in a Hindu male child of 8. The lower end of the upper fragment protruded, and had to be sawn off. Sound union of the fracture took place in 84 days. In the other case, a Hindu male child of 7, an epiphesial simple fracture of the lower end of the humerus had taken place three months before admission. The end of the shaft had been pushed in front of the epiphysis and uni- on has taken place in that position, seriously impeding flexion of the joint. The projectingPRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 17 bone was reached by straight incision, removed by cutting forceps, trimmed by chisel, reduced and retained in position by a rectangular splint. The wound healed in 11 days, and the child was discharged with a useful joint in 27 days. 3c. tiesection of the radius for compound frac- ture.—(i) Hindu male, at. 13. Fell from a tree two days ago and sustained compound Colles’s fracture ; lower end of upper fragment protrud- ing through the skin. The protruding portion was removed by cutting forceps, and the bone was reduced after the wouud had beeu enlarged. The wound healed very slowly, and a small bit of dead bone was removed through a sinus which remained obstinately open. It closed speedily after this. Passive motion was repeatedly re- sorted to. The child remained under treatment for 145 days. Ultimate result satisfactory, (ii) Hindu male, cet. 14. Sustained compound fracture of both bones of the forearm by fall from a height of 24 feet three days before admission, radius protruding, discharge foetid. The projecting portion of the radius was remov- ed by cutting forceps and the bone reduced. A large collection of matter was found on the flexor aspect of the forearm four days after- wards and laid freely opeu. Pyrexia set in on the fifth day and tetauus on the sixth, which proved fatal next day. 4d. Resection of the ribs for empyema.— (i.) Hindu female, at. 30. This patient had beeu suffering from acute pleurisy of left side for several weeks. She was admitted under the care of Dr. Birch on 19th August. Res- piration being very embarrassed and circulation a18 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. very rapid. 62 ozs. o{ blood-tinged serum were removed by aspiration on that day. This gave some relief; 28 ozs. were removed on the 21st, and 13 ozs. on the 27th. Re-accumula- tion taking place somewhat rapidly. Dr. Birch thought that diminution of the capacity of the chest would probably favour collapse after evacuation. Accordingly on the 2nd of Septem- ber, pieces about 1|- inches long were taken out of the 5th, 6th, and 7th ribs in the line of the axilla. In denuding the 6th rib the pleura which seemed to be friable gave way. A drainage tube was inserted through this hole, and an antiseptic dressing applied. Patient suffered from shock after the operation, and did not rally. Death took place in 52-^ hours. Free discharge took place through the tube. (ii.) East Indian child, cet.. 9. This boy wasad- mitted for empyema of two months’ standing. A piece of the 6th rib was removed, so as to facilitate insertion and retention of a tube. Fever subsided after the operation ; the dis- charge became scanty ; the tube was gradually shortened, and withdrawn when the discharge became serous and scanty. The wound healed, and patient was discharged 26 days after operation. 4. Trephining of the mastoid process.—Hindu male, cet. 50. Has been suffering from disease I of right ear for a year. There is a sinus in the posterior wall of the meatus, through which a probe passes and impinges on loose dead bone; discharge very offensive. Mastoid process en- larged and soft tissues over it puffy. A straight incision was made behind the ear;PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 19 the mastoid process was laid open and a cavity exposed full of dead and carious bone, aud very friable granulation tissue. This was fully scraped out, and the cavity healed slowly by aranulatiou in 105 days. 5a. Trephining the skull for recent frac- ture.—(i.) East Indian male, act. 28. Sustained a wound of right temple four days before admission. Skull broken at site of wound, which had not been treated antiseptically. Has high fever; loss of control over left upper extremity and stiffness of neck. During two days after his admission the symptoms became worse. He got semicomatose, pupils contracted, pulse and respiration quick. Both legs stiff. Passes mo- tions involuntarily. The skull was trephined at the seat of fracture. No fragments. Dura mater dull and yellow at one spot where it was divided. A few drops of pus issued. Membranes very vascular. He lived for 22 hours. The symptoms progressed and he died of coma. Acute diffuse purulent meningitis was found on post mortem examination. (it.) Hindu male, act. 22. Fell off a coach- box 2f hours before admission. Sustained a wound of left occipital region and a depressed fracture of skull beneath the wound ; breathing irregular, p. 140. Conjunctival reflex absent. Three hours after admission violent spasms of right upper and lower extremities set in. 5^ hours after this, his condition getting worse. Dr. Adie exposed the seat of fracture, trephined the skull, and removed several pieces of bone ■which were pressing on the brain. No relief followed except that the breathing got more20 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. regular and spasms ceased. Died 26 hours after operation. 5b. Trephining for traumatic epilepsy.— , East Iudian male, cet. 24. Admitted 1st De- cember. Fell off a dog-cart in March 1887, and was stuuned. Hurt the upper occipital regiou where there was a swelling, on whose subsidence a depression was perceived. Got au epileptic fit about a month after the acci- dent, and since then fits have occurred at irregular intervals with increasing frequency of late. On admission, a depression was found at the upper angle of the occipital bone which was somewhat tender on pressure. A circle of bone was taken out of the skull at this place by the trephine under strict antiseptic precautions. A thickened ridge was found to extend across the inner plate. The operation was performed on the 6th of December. The wound healed shortly by first intention ; no con- stitutional disturbance. He had a fit on the 29th. The cavity of the wound was found to be distended with clear serum which was evacuated and a small tube inserted. Another slight fit occurred on 17th January. Dis- charged in excellent health on 7th February. He had two slight fits shortly after discharge but when last heard of had been free of fits for three months and was in perfect health, doing, his work as a clerk in a Government Office at Simla very efficiently. Amputations for Injury. 1. Primary amputation through the shoulder- joint.— Hindu male, cet. 25. Mill accident. Right arm and forearm caught by belting, latter tornPRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 21 off. Humerus denuded aud soft parts lacerated, more on posterior and outer aspect. Amputa- tion was performed soon after his admission on the day of accident through the shoulder- joint. An external (deltoidal) flap was formed by dissection, disarticulation effected, and an in- ternal (axillary) flap cut from within. Haemorr- hage was prevented by a cord held by tapes in front and behind. The operation was followed by shock, which was succeeded by moderate re- action. The wound remained aseptic, and healed by first intention in 18 days. Discharged 46 days after admission. 2. Primary amputation of arm.—Mahomed- an male, cet. 50. Left hand and lower third of forearm torn off by a machine. Flaps were taken from what remained of the skin of forearm, and the humerus was divided above the condyles. The operation was performed shortly after admis- sion ou the day of accident by Surgeon Ed- wards. The wound healed by first intentiou in 16 days, and patient was discharged in 25 days. 3. Primary amputation of forearm.—(i) Mahomedan male, cet. 20. Right hand and wrist crushed by a machine. Amputation of forearm at lower third performed by the Resident Surgeon on admission. Wound healed by first intentiou in 11 davs. Patient discharged in 19 days. (ii) Mahomedan female, cet. 55. Sustained a compound Colies’s fracture and extensive lacera- tion of wrist by the passing of a carriage-wheel over it. Amputation of the forearm at the lower third was performed by Dr. Adie ou her admis- sion. The wound healed by first intention in 11 days, aud patient left hospital in 13 days.22 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 4. Primary amputation of fingers.—In one of these cases, a Hindu lud of 20, all the fingers of the right band were smashed, the metacarpals broken, and the skin of the dorsum badly torn, i Surgeon Jameson removed the four fingers and ! metacarpal bones, and raised a palmar flap over i the ends. A satisfactory result was obtained in 27 days. In another Hindu youth of 12, Dr. Adie removed all the fingers of the left hand, •which had been damaged badly by a machine, together with the heads of the metacarpal bones, utilizing the tags of skin which retained vitality for flaps. The case did well in 35 days. In the third case, a Hindu male, cet. 45, the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th digits of the left hand had been smashed three days before admission, and gan- grene had set in. Dr. Gibbons removed them at the metacarpo-phalangeal joint, and recovery took place in 27 days. 5. Double primary amputation of ilie legs.— A Hindu male, cet. 50, was run over by an en- gine and had the right leg crushed at the upper third, and the left foot and ankle badly smashed. Surgeon H. W. Pilgrim removed the right leg at the upper third and the left at. the lower third. The patient died of shock 20 minutes after completion of the operation. 6. Secondary amputation of the arm for gangrene.—(i) A Mohamedan male, cet. 12, fell from a tree about a mouth ago, and hurt his left forearm. Splints and bandages were applied by a villager in such a way that the part swell- ed and became gangrenous. The soft parts gradually separated from the lower two-thirds of the forearm, leaving the bones bare and the handPRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 23 fell off. He was admitted in this condition with a conical granulating wound at the upper third. Sufficient skin remained to permit of amputation by oval flaps just above the elbow joint. The wound healed in 16 days, and he was discharged with a sound stump in 20 days. (ii) A native Christian female child, at. 8, fell off a verandah about a month before admis- sion, and h.urt her right forearm ; the part was bandaged, and subsequently swelled and sup- purated. An opening had been made to eva- cuate the matter. The forearm and lower third of the arm were found to be baggy and fluctuating. Counter openings were made, and tubes inserted, and au effort made to save the limb. No benefit resulted. The child suffered from fever, and the bones of the arm and forearm were found to he extensively denuded, and the elbow-joint disorganized. Amputation of the arm at the lower third was performed by Assistant- Surgeon Svama Nirod Das Gupta. The fever quickly subsided,and the wound healed in 16 days. 7. Secondary amputation of fingers for necro- sis.—(i) Hindu female, cet. 50. The ring and little fingers of the right baud were crushed by a d/ienki 25 davs ago, and have dropped off at the first inter-phalangeal joint. The first phal- anges were removed by Assistant-Surgeon S. N. Gupta. The wounds healed by granulation in 32 days. (ii) Hindu male, cet. 30. The middle finger of right hand was smashed about a month ago. o o What remained of the digit was removed at the metacarpo-phalaugeal joint. The wound healed in 10 days.PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 24 (iii) Mithomedan male, cut. 50. This man’s left index finger was bitten by a drunkard a fortnight ago. The finger was swollen, boggy and riddled with sinuses, and the boues necrosed. It was removed together with the head of the metacarpal bone. A lot of unhealthy granula- tion material was scraped off by a sharp spoon, and the wound left to heal by granulation which occupied 29 days. %* The most remarkable features in the fore- going series of cases is the number of acci- dents requiring amputation, which were caused by machinery. A quarter of a century ago injuries of this sort were all but unknown in India. As mills and factories have arisen in and around Calcutta, machine accidents have been met with with increasing frequency, and they are likely to undergo still further increase in the near future. Two of these cases illustrate the damage caused by rough village surgery, of which very frequent examples present them- selves in the Calcutta hospitals. Amputations for Disease. 1. Amputation through the thigh for disorga- nized knee-joint.—(i) Hindu female, cet. 12,admit- ted on 19th September 1889, with a sinus on the outer aspect of left thigh leading to bare bone caused by an abscess which occurred four months previously ; knee-joint ankylosediu a semi-flexed positiou. An attempt was made to save the limb by drainage, rest and constitutional treat- ment. A sequestrum was removed on 7th Octo- ber, and the case seemed to be progressing fa- vourably, till the beginning of January 1890PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 25 when a large abscess formed on the opposite (inner) aspect of the thigh. When this was open- ed, the femur was found to be extensively de- nuded and the knee-joint disorganized. The general health was also failing. Amputation was performed on the 18th of January through the middle of the thigh. The wound healed rapid- ly, and patient’s health greatly improved. She left hospital with an artificial leg on the 16th of March. (ii) Hindu male, at. 30, suffered from inflam- mation of the larger joints about a year ago. They all recovered with exception of the left knee-joint, which has continued painful and swol- len. On admission this joint was found to be distended with pus, dislocated backwards and thoroughly disorganized; a large abscess extend- ed into the thigh; patient’s health bad, suffering from pyrexia and phithisical. Amputation was performed by lateral flaps at the middle of the thigh. The wound remained aseptic but repair was very slow and a piece of protruding femur had to be removed 42 days after operation. He left the hospital of his own accord with rapidly progressing phithisis 104 days after operation. 2. Amputation through the thigh for sar- coma.—Hindu male. The tumour was situa- ted in the upper end of the left tibia. It appeared to be due to a fall sustained 2% years previously, and had been growing rapidly during six months prior to admission. Amputa- tion was performed at the lower third of the thigh. The wound healed in 12 days and the drainage track closed 10 days later. A few days after- wards a lump was detected in the recently cica-PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 26 trized wound, which continued to increase un- til patient left hospital 46 days after operation. He was told to return if the lump grew larger; but has not been heard of since his discharge. 3. (i.) Amputation through the leg for elephan- tiasis, abscess, and necrosis.—East Indian female, cet. 17. Has had elephantiasis of left leg for six years. Abscesses formed at the ankle and foot causing ragged sinuses leading to diseased bone. Patient’s health and constitution deteriorating, in consequence of the local disease. Amputa- tion of the leg was performed at the seat of election; the flaps united in 16 days, and the drainage opening closed in 11 days more. Dis- charged 64 days after operation. She was sub- sequently re-admitted into the medical wards for phthisis, but the stump remained sound. (ii) Amputation through the leg for gan- grene.—Hindu male, cet. 30. Had a severe attack of fever seven months ago, followed by gangrene of left foot and lower part of leg. There is a conical stump with the bare tibia and fibula projecting trom the apex and knee acutely flexed. Amputation was performed at the seat of election. The flaps united in 12 days, and the drainage aperture healed in 14 days. Discharged with a wooden leg in 59 days. (iii) Amputation through the leg for dry gan- grene.—Mahomedan male, cet. 30. This man was admitted on the 15th of August, with o-angrene of right foot, the result of an ncci- dental knock against a brick while walking two months previously. Three of the toes had fallen off, and the other two were gangrenous. The first and second metatarsal bones were exposed,PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 27 soft ports sloughy. Patient, in bad health, suffer- ing from chronic Bright’s disease. The sloughs bavins been removed and ulcer cleaned by the use of salol, the first and second metatarsal bones were removed, and the ends of the others together with what remained of the last two toes on the 22nd September. This proceeding gave a new start to the gangrene, which now invaded the low- er part of the leg. Amputation was performed at the seat of election on the 4th of October under strict antiseptic precautions. The wound did well for a week, and then fever set in with local pain, and the discharge became grumous and sour. The wound gaped, and the end of the bone was exposed. This unhealthy action continued for a few days, but the wound finally granulated, and was soundly healed on the 26th of December, 83 days after operation. His health at the same time underwent improvement, and he left hospital with an artificial leg on the 4th of January 1891. 4. Syrne's amputation for mycetoma. — Hindu male, cet. 30. Disease of two years’ dura- tion affecting toes and dorsum of left foot. Am- putation performed by Svme’s method. The case did well during the first week, but putrefaction and bleeding were observed on the eighth day. This was probably due to the man’s restless- ness. The wound now got verv foul, and the cavity ot the stump was tensely filled with blood clot. The stitches were removed, clots turned out, and two points tied. Carbolic irrigation was resorted to, bleeding in severe form recurred on two occasions, and was stopped by acupres- sure; ligatures would not hold. At last underPRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 28 the local use of turpentine oozing ceased, and the wound became healthy. A sound stump resulted, but detention in hospital extended to 78 days—73 after operation. 5. Syme’s amputation for diseased tarsus.— (i) Native Christum female, cet. 25. An at- tempt was made to save the foot in this case by scraping out the diseased parts (see III, 4,5, supra.) The tarsus was explored under chloro- form, and found to be extensively disorganized. The foot was removed by Syme’s method. The wound had to be re-opened on the sixth day to remove clots. It healed by granulation in 60 days. A good stump resulted. (ii) Hindu male, cet. 30. The disease com- menced a year ago, and became extensive, numerous sinuses leading to dead bone. The right foot was removed by Syme’s method. An opening for drainage was made in the centre of the heel flap. The lips of the wound healed quickly, but the cavity and drainage track did not close for 49 days. The result was eventually satisfactory. Spent 77 days in hospital. (iii) Hindu male, cet. 40. An attempt had been made to save this foot (see III, 4,a, supra). This failing, it was found necessary to remove the foot by Syme’s amputation. The skin edges united in 13 days. The drainage aperture in the heel had not quite closed when patient, who suffered from phithisis, was removed by his friends about two months after the operation. 6. Chop art's amputation for necrosis.—Hindu male, cet. 30. Sustained an injury of right great toe ten years ago, which resulted in gangrene, which led to the loss of his toes. Two years20 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. afterwards tlie stump inflamed, and it was found necessary to remove the metatarsal bones. The wound now healed, leaving a sinus in its centre, which has remained open. On admission, the sinus was found to lead to dead bone. It was surrounded by tough cicatricial material, which covered the top of the foot as high as the ankle. A flap was dissected from the sole. The cuboid, three cuneiform bones, and scalphoid, all of which were diseased were taken away, and the flap turned up and stitched. Unhealthy action set in on the fourth day, which caused the flap partially to slough; what remained if it was supported by plaster; aud as the wound healed by granulation, it covered the face of the stump, except in front of the ankle when a small ulcer remained, which had to be closed by a plastic operation. The man was admitted on the 11th of January, the amputation was performed on the 18th of that month, and the plastic operation on the 13th of December. This loug detention was due to the very tardy repair which took place. 7. Hey's amputation for necrosis.— Hindu male, cet. 30. Has suffered from disease of the right foot for two-and-a-half years. The anterior portiou of the foot is riddled with siuuses leading to dead bone. Oval flaps were dissected from the dorsum and sole of the foot, aud the metatarsal bones removed. The wound healed mostly by first intention. The Tendo achillis was divided subcutaneously at the time of operation to pre- vent pulling up of the heel. A satisfactory result was obtained in 60 days. 8. Amputation of left great toe for gan- grene.— Hiudu male, cet. 26. Suffered from30 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. syphilis four months ago. Has still some dusky spots on skin. About thirty-five days ago great toe of left foot became discoloured, and part of it including the terminal phalanx dropped off. The remaining phalanx was removed, and the wound healed by granulation in 43 days. *** The reduced mortality of amputations con- stitutes one of the most satisfactory incidents in the surgical history of the Medical College Hos- pital. At one time the deaths amounted to about two-thirds of the operations. The death- rate in 1890 was almost nil. The case in which double amputation of the legs was performed, which constituted the only fatal case in the series, was moribund from shock and loss of blood on admission, and never rallied. No selection of cases was made, and in some of those operated on for disease, the constitutional conditions were exceedingly unfavourable from phithisis and syphilis and general debility. YI. A.—Removal of Malignant Tumours. la. Epithelioma of cheek.—Hindu male, cet. 32. Sixteen months ago noticed a small hard growth in front of left ear, which has increased to the size of a hen's egg. It is hard and painful to touch, movable but not freely, and there is an opening below the lobule of the ear through which on pressing the lump some glairy fluid exudes. The tumour wras exposed by a J_‘shaped incision, the horizontal line being parallel to the lower border of the jaw and the vertical running up in front of the ear. The flaps were dissected off, and the tumour removed from its deep con- nections. It was firmly adherent to the angle ofPRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 31 the jaw which was detached with a chisel. The wound healed mostly by granulation iu 58 days. He came to show himself five months after dis- charge. No recurrence had taken place. 16. Epithelioma of the tongue. — European male, (Bt. 51, admitted on the 7th December. The disease appeared iu January. It involves the base of the tongue right side. Anterior pillar of that side thickened. Submaxillary and submas- toid lymphatic glands enlarged. The tongue was removed by Kucher’s method on the 10th of December. Tracheotomy was performed, a tube inserted, and chloroform administered through it. Oblique incisions were made from the mas- toid process, and symphysis in the course of the sterno mastoid muscle and anterior belly of the digastric down to the level of the hyoid bone and connected by a horizontal cut at that level. The quadrangular flap so fashioned was dissect- ed up and the enlarged glands lying on the carotid sheath exposed. These were carefully dissected off the sheath and removed. The supe- rior thyroid, lingual and facial arteries were seen as they branched from the external carotid and ligatured with catgut. The glands, salivary and lymphatic, in the submaxillary triangle were next removed, and the floor of the mouth opened. The tongue was drawn out through the opening, two strong silk ligatures were passed through its tip and the organ bisected with scissors from tip to base. The right half of the tongue was now removed together with the anterior pillar of the fauces and tonsil of that side. It was now found that the thickening had crossed the middle liue, and a chain ecraseur was passed round thePRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 32 left half of the tongue at its root and tlie part thus removed. Rattier free bleeding took place from the left lingual, which was stopped by re- application of the ecrareur and catgut ligature. Some glands which had escaped notice were now removed, the vertical portions of the wound stitch- ed and the horizontal left open. The exposed parts were dressed with iodoform lint. Patient made a slow but satisfactory recovery. He was fed for weeks with a funnel and tube. The tracheal tube was removed on the 13th day and the tracheal wound closed on the 21st day. The wound of the mouth and neck healed slowly by granulation. On the 4th of February a suspi- cious nodule was removed from the right an- terior pillar. On the 11th of March a cancerous nodule was taken away from beneath the sterno- mastoid. It was adherent to the internal jugular vein, about two inches of which had to be excised after preliminary deligation. The wound now closed with exception of a narrow fistulous channel. He could feed himself with a spoon in a recumbent position. He was able to talk fluently and intelligibly, and his general health was restored. He left for Darjeeling in April. A suspicious hardness had again formed under the steruo-mastoid. He has not been heard of since. *%* This was a very formidable operation ; but by no other method could the obviously diseased tissues have been removed. The disease had unfortunately been allowed to extend so widely and deeply that it is feared that even the extensive and repeated operations which were resorted to have only served to relieve his painPRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 33 ami suffering ami prolong his life for a few months. lc. Epithelioma of the penis—amputation.— i. Hindu male,oat. 45. Duration four months; glans and prepuce destroyed. Corpus caverno- eum infiltrated up to suspensary ligament. Penis transfixed transversely at root by a steel pin and a drainage tube wound round it above the pin. Skin divided circularly. Corpus spongiosum left longer than cavernosa and carefully stitched to inferior angle of wound; vessels secured and sides of cavernosa stitched to septum with two catgut sutures. Wound healed in 17 days. ii. Hindu male, cet. 45. Disease of 15 years’ duration ; penis affected to the level of the scro- tum. Glands of left groin also cancerous. Similar operation. Glands removed at the same time. Discharged in 53 days with wound fully healed and no recurrence. iii. Hindu male, cut. 40. Two years’duration. Two-thirds of pendent portion of penis affected. Similar operation. Wound healed in 18 days. 1 d. Epithelioma of the scrotum. — Hindu male, cet.. 53. Originated in a warty growth four years ago, which was repeatedly ligatured with horse-hair and treated with ointments. The mass was removed by an elliptical incision placed well beyond its margin. The resulting wound healed in 26 days. \e. Epithelioma of hip.—Hindu female, cet. 50. She noticed a growth in front of the left trochan- ter and below the crest of the ilium six months ago, which broke down and formed an ulcer with very hard base. The subjacent bone was eroded. The growth was removed by an elliptical inci-PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 34 sion and the subjacent bone freely chiselled out. The resulting wound was large and deep, and took 65 days to heal. There was no sign of re- currence when she left hospital. 2a. Scirrltus of the lower jaw.—Malioinedau male, cet. 55. Seven years ago he noticed a lump at the left angle of his lower jaw which has gradually attained a large size and grown into the mouth ; skin healthy. The lower jaw was divided to the left of the symphysis. An incision made downwards and outwards from the angle of the mouth, the tumour carefully dis- sected out and the jaw removed b}’ disarticula- tion. The case progressed favourably and com- plete repair procured in 60 days. 2b. Scirrhus of the neclc. — Hindu male, cet. 50, hard growth beneath left sterno-mastoid of two and a half months’ duration and implicating the skin, freely movable over the spine and not attached to the larynx or pharynx. It was ex- posed by an elliptical incision which included the diseased skin. The deep dissection was very difficult and tedious. The internal jugular vein was found to run through the growth and had to be removed with it after ligature above and below; the carotid artery and vagus were exposed but not involved. The wound was carefully closed and healed by first intention. There was no sign of recurrence when the man left the hos- pital 37 days after the operation. 3a. Sarcoma of the antrum.—Hindu male, cet. 50. Noticed a swelling of the right cheek four months ago, which gradually increased and burst through the skin about a month ago, caus- ing a circular aperture through which a quau-PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 35 tity of gelatinous mucus continually escapes. Cavity of antrum enlarged and walls thinned. A free crucial incision was made, the antrum was found to be filled with cerebriform material which was removed. The thickened lining mem- brane was peeled off* and the bony walls well scraped. The cavity was stuffed with iodoform lint. It wtis gradually filled by granulation material, the wound closed, and there was no sign of recurrence when he left the hospital 44 days alter operation. 6b. Sarcoma oj the lower jate.—Hindu male, at. 16. This growth commenced two and a half months ago in the alveolar process of the right lower jaw near the anterior molar and has ra- pidly assumed a large size. It bulges into the mouth and fauces, implicates the skin of the cheek and can be felt as high as the zygoma. Patient anaemic and delicate. A straight cut about two inches long was made from the right angle of the mouth outwards, and from its end two cuts were carried up and down, and from their extremities two others meeting in front of the ear. The quadrangular space thus mapped out included the diseased skin. The jaw was now divided on the right of the symphysis, the tumour isolated and disarticulation effected. Bleeding points were secured promptly by clamp forceps and afterwards tied in detail. The loss of blood was moderate, and the patient bore the formidable operation well. The horizontal cut was care- fully stitched and united by first intention ; the four sides of the wound were brought together except at the centre where a quadrangular hole was left for drainage. This gaped a good dealPRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 36 and then contracted, but an aperture remained which required a plastic operation. The opera- tion was performed on tlie 24th of November and the plastic operation on the 28th of January 1891. Patient had slight shock and was fed through the nostril for two days. The process of healing by granulation was slow but un- impeded. 4. Na.80-phnryn.geul 'polypus.—i. Mahoine- dan male, cet. 14. Has suffered from epistaxis for five years. The growth in the pharynx was noticed two years ego. Both nostrils blocked and both respiration and deglutition are accom- plished with great difficulty. The growth is found to fill the left nasal fossa and hangs into the pharynx. The left nostril was slit up, a silk thread passed into the mouth with a Bellocq’s canula and the chain of an ecraseur pulled into the pharynx. It was slipped round the fundus of the growth with the fingers and about half of the mass was removed. The other half was taken away by a second application of the ecra- seur aiuf the attachment of the tumour was pulled away by necrosis forceps. The cavity was lightly stuffed with strips of iodoform lint, and the wound of the nostril carefully stitched. He left hospital in 6 days in a satisfactory con- dition. ii. Hindu male, cet. dO. About a year ago he noticed a growth in the right nostril. It was removed about six months ago by Dr. Adie, who slit up the nostril for the purpose. Recurrence has taken place, and the nostril is filled with a soft solid, while the bridge of the nose is raised into a swelling about the size of a walnut. ThePRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 37 nostril was again slit and tlie tumour encircled by an incision. The septum of the nose, nasal hones and nasal process of the right superior maxillary to which the growth was attached were taken away and the mass extirpated with the aid of a gouge. The nostril was stitched, but the circular aperture in the bridge left open. The wound of the nostril healed by first inten- tion and the circular wound contracted, but re- currence took place in about a month, and patient declined further operation. The growth was a round celled sarcoma. VI. B.—Non-Malignant Tumours. 1 a. Elephantiasis, of the Prepuce.—Hindu male, cet. 30. Disease of two years’ duration. The hypertrophied prepuce was pulled for- wards, the preputial cavity entered by scissors from below and the removal of the mass com- pleted by clipping forwards cm each side at the level of the corona glaudis. The skin and mucous membrane were stitched together with horse-hair. The wound healed by first inten- tion in 14 days. 16. Elephantiasis of the scrotum.—i. Hindu male, opt. 32. Uncomplicated case of seven years’ duration. Heallh good. The tumour which weighed 14lbs., was removed by Assistant Sur- geon Syama Nirod Das Gupta in the usual manner. Both tunica; contained fluid, and the membrane which had become cartilaginous had to be dissected and scraped off the surface of the testes. Made a satisfactory recovery in 66 days. ii. Mahomedan male, cet. 55. UncomplicatedPRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 38 case of twelve years’ duration; health good. Usual operation. Tumour weighed 711>s. 8oz. Right tunica contained a little fluid. Wound remained aseptic and healed in 53 days. iii. Hindu male, cet. 45. Uncomplicated. Five years* duration Health good. Usual operation; weighed 15lbs. Made a good re- covery in 50 days. iv. Hindu male, cet. 32. Uncomplicated. Ten years’ duration. Health good. Removed by Assistant Surgeon Syama Nirod Das Gupta in the usual manner. Weighed lOlbs. Right tunica contained some fluid. Wound remained aseptic. Discharged in 65 days. v. Hindu male, cet. 34. Small tumour, weighing 31bs., of nine years’ duration. Health fair. Removed in the usual manner. Both tunicas contained fluid. Left, thick and degenerated, had to be removed. Wound remained aseptic, but healed slowly* Discharged in 96 days after operation. vi. Hindu male, cet. 32. Small tumour, weighing 4lbs., of three years’ growth. Health good. Usual operation. Both tunicse contained a little fluid. An operculum cut in each. Dis- charged in 42 days. vii. Hindu male, cet. 28. Large right hydro- cele covered with hypertrophied scrotum. Latter only removed, weighed lib. 4|oz. ; penis not decorticated, tunicas excised, testes pocketed, and wound carefully stitched. Healed kindly in 42 days. viii. Hindu male, cet. 40. Uncomplicated. Tumour weighing 71 bs., ot three years’ duration. Health good. Removed by Assistant Surgeon39 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. Syatna Nirod D;is Gupta. Wound healed uspptieally in 79 davs. ix. Hindu male, cet. 35. Large preputial and small scrotal tumour of ten years’ growth. Penis 15 inches long and 10 inches in circumference. Health fair. The hypertrophied parts, weighing 3lbs., were removed in the usual way. The man became demented during convalescence, but o 7 recovered before discharge which took place iit 84 days. x. Mahomedan male, cet. 30. Tumour weighing 121 bs., of three years’ growth. Health good. Usual operation. Right tunica contained a large quantity of fluid. Recovered in 64 days. xi. Mahomedan male, cet. 35. Admitted with a scrotal tumour of fifteen years’ growth and an infhimed hydrocele. Penis not diseased. The inflammation subsided under treatment in a few days, and the hypertrophied scrotum which weighed 5lbs. 7oz. was removed. Both tunicse contained fluid, left sanguineous. Penis not decorticated, became oedematous after operation, but regained normal size. Parts healed asepti- cally in 53 days. xii. Hindu male, cet. 50. Scrotal tumour and left hydrocele of seven years’ duration. Penis healthy. Operation as in last case. Weighed 4lbs. Recovered in 44 days. xiii. Hindu male, cet. 45. Uncomplicated. Tumour weighing 191 bs., of three years’ growth. Health good. Usual operation. Recovery in 54 days. ‘ xiv. Hindu male, cet. 30. Large left hydro- cele containing 2^lbs. of fluid, and scrotal tu- mour weighing 4lbs. Tumour removed, andPRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 40 tunica paired off by Assistant Surgeon Syama Nirod Das Gupta. Wound healed in 61 davs. xv. Hindu male, cet. 24. Small tumour of two months’ growth weighing l^lhs. Usual operation. Fluid in both tunieae. Discharged in 72 days. xvi. Hindu male, cet. 30. Small tumour of fourteen years’ duration. No fluid in tunieae. Usual operation. Recovered in 54 days. xvii. Mahometan male, cet. 38. Tumour weighing 3lbs. 8oz., of four years’ growth. Re- moved by Dr. Pilgrim. Recovered in 60 days. xviii. Hindu male, cet. 45. Scrotal tumour of twenty-two years’ growth, weighing 3lbs, 3oz. Right tunica contained 32oz. of fluid ; left a little. Usual operation. Recovered in 75 days. xix. Hindu male, cet. 35. Tumour weighing 21 bs. 13oz., of fourteen years’ growth. Health bad. Very large spleen. Removed by Assistant- Surgeon Syama Nirod Das Gupta in the ordinary way. Right, tunica contained 20oz. and left 40oz. of fluid. Had persistent fever for eighteen days, but made a good recovery in 59 days. xx. Hindu male, cet. 35. Tumour weighing lib. 15oz., of twenty years’ growth. Usual operation by Assistant-Surgeon Syama Nirod Das Gupta. Tunieae adherent. Discharged in 74 days. xxi. Hindu male, cet. 45. Tumour weighing 18lbs. 13oz., of two years’ growth. Suffering from fever. Removed as usual. Both tunieae contained fluid. Fever persisted for a week, and was followed by diarrhoea for another week. The wound healed kindly in 58 days.41 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. xxii. Hindu male, cet. 45. Tumour .weighing 271bs., of seven years’ growth. Usual operation. Both tunicje contained fluid. Recovered in 56 days. xxiii. Hindu male, cet. 32. Tumour weighing 28lbs. 10oz., of ten years’growth. ' Usual oper- ation. Recovered in 53 days. xxiv. Hindu male, cet. 57. Tumour weigh- ing 9lbs. 10oz., of five years’ growth. Usual operation. Left tunica contained 48oz., and right lOoz. The wound healed well, but he became demented in the fourth week, and was removed by tiis friends 80 days after operation. It has been ascertained that he recovered his senses on going home. %* The most remarkable fact about this series of cases is that they all recovered—a circumstance probably unprecedented in the his- tory of the Medical College Hospital. No se- lection was made ; but the majority of the patients were young, and the majority of the tumours small. The heaviest, weighed 28lbs. 10oz. The operation and after treatment were precisely the same as in recent vears, and the wounds were kept aseptic in every instance. Ic. Elephantiasis of labia.—i. Hindu female, (let. 16. Both labia majora hypertrophied and ulcerated on the inner surface. A serpiginous ulcer on perineum. The labia were removed by elliptical incisions, and the ulcer dissected off. Edges of wound approximated by catgut stitches. Recovered in 32 days. ii. Hindu female, cet. 18. History of recent syphilis. Left labium majus much enlarged; sinus42 PRECIS OF OPBRATIONS. removed. Left contained a large abscess cavity which was dissected out. Lips of wounds ap- proximated with catgut. Healed in 24 days. 2a. Fibroma of upper jaw.—Hindu male, cut. 20. This was a very remarkable case. A flat mass springing by a narrow pedicle from the gum opposite the first and second upper bicus- pids filled the cavity of the palate. It had been growing for eight years. It was easily removed by chain ecraseur, and the pedicle touched with a cautery. He left the hospital in 5 days and has not been heard of since. 2c. fibroma of ischio-rectal fossa.—Hindu female, cet. 35. Large hard tumour of four years’ growth, occupying and distendiug right ischio- rectal fossa. It, was exposed by a straight antero- posterior incision and shelled out. It was adher- ent to the lower end of the rectum which was removed. The wound remained aseptic and healed mostly by granulation in 42 days. 2d. Fibroma of leg and thigh.—Hindu male, cet. 18. Admitted on 11th October with two im- mense tumours, one congenital at back of right thigh, extending from tuber ischii to popliteal space, the other of five years’ growth at back of right leg from knee to lower third. The latter was removed on 13th October. A longitudinal incision about a foot long was necessary to ex- pose it from end to end. It was found to lie inti- mately connected with muscles and fasciae, which had to be dissected ofFits surface and to spring bv a fibrous root from the head of the fibula. Its removal was facilitated by splitting it in two. The wound was closed throughout, and provision made for drainage by passing two tubes throughPRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 4:; holes made on opposite sides and at opposite ends. The mass weighed 2^1bs., and was firm and purely fibrous; the wound which remained aseptic healed mostly by first intention. On the 15th of November the tumour of the thigh was removed in a similar maimer. The incision was 14 inches long and the mass, which also weighed 2^lbs., was found to be attached to the linen aspera. The wound was similarly dealt with, remained aseptic, and healed in 11 days, the drainage tracks closing in 19 days. He was discharged on loth December. 3. Myxoma of the nose.—Mahomedan female, out. 30. A mucous polypus removed by wire eeraseur. Discharged in 2 days. 4. Angioma of lip.— Hindu male, oet. 24. The tumour which involved the right half of the up- per lip was isolated by a clamp specially devised by Dr. McLeod for lip operations and injected in every part with saturated solution of tannin introduced by a hypodermic syringe. It swelled and on subsidence of the swelling underwent some shrinking, but the result was not satisfac- tory, and it was thought best to remove if by a V-sbnped incision. This was done 15 days after the injection. The clamp was again used with advantage on this occasion. The upper part of the wound healed by first intention, and the lower by granulation. Satisfactory union was obtained in 21 days. 5. Adenoma of mamma.—i. Hindu female, iBt. 56. Tumour of right breast about the size of a cocoanut which had been growing since she was 16 years old. Two skewers were passed uuder it at right angles and a rubber cord wound44 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. tightly round the base of the growth, which was thus removed bloodlessly. Tlie wound healed by first intention in 10 days, and the drainage tracks were closed in 15 days. Discharged in 26 days. ii. Hindu female, cet. 35. Tumour of left breast, of two years’growth fungating through a cut made by a native barber. It was easily re- moved, and the resulting wound healed mostly by first intention. Discharged in 22 days. 5. Ej/mphndenonia of axilla.—East Indian male, eet. 30. A movable tumour about the. size of an orange in right axilla pf six months’growth. It was exposed and removed. The mass consist- ed -of a group of enlarged glands undergoing caseation. The wound healed in II days. 7. Keloid tumour of shoKilder.—Hindu male, cet. 16. A circular mass of keloid 7 inches in circumference on right shoulder caused by the application of sulphuric acid one year ago to a patch of ringworm. The mass was dissected off' and flaps taken from the neighbourhood to cover the denuded area. The wounds united partly by first, intention and partly by granulation. Left hospital in 50 days without any indication of recurrence, 8. Exostosis of external meatus.—East. In- dian male, oet. 22. The meatus has been under- going progressive contraction for three years by a hard growth springing from the posterior wall. The passage barely admits a probe. The growth was exposed and removed by a chisel. Contrac- tion of the soft, parts was subsequently prevent- ed by retaining a piece of drainage tube in the meatus until healing took p'ace. Discharged in 39 days. <45 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 9a. Sebaceous cyst of scalp.—i. East Indian, male, cel. 70; situated on vertex, of twelve years’ growth; had been recently punctured. The cavity was laid open, the wall of the cyst avuls- ed, and the wound healed by granulation in 7 days. ii. Hindu male, cet. 25. Situated ou occiput, size of a walnut, similarly removed. Wound healed by granulation in 17 days. 9b. Sebaceous cyst of neck.—European male, cet. 30. Situated over left sterno-mastoid, size of a pigeon’s egg ; inflamed. Removed by dissection. Wound healed in 6 days. 9c. Sebaceous cyst of groin.— Hindu male, cet. 45. This was a case of epithelioma of the penis, with cancerous glands in left groin which were removed. A swelling in right groin was thought to be cancerous and was dissected out. It proved to be a sebaceous cyst. The wound healed kindly. " 10. Condylomata.—These were removed by scissors and sharp spoon. The resulting ulcers healed kindly. 11. Gumma of icrist.. — Hindu female, cet. 40. A soft swelling on the back of left wrist, which appeared a month ago. No history of syphilis. It. was incised and scraped out, the lower end of the ulna was eroded, and the bare portion was removed by gouge. The wound healed by gra- nulation in 27 days. 12. Lupus of cheek.—A hill woman, cet. 46. A large sloughy lupoid ulceration of left upper lip and gum of thirteen months’ standing gradually increasing; edges hard and serpiginous ; several teeth had fallen out. The diseased tissues were4 a PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. removed by knife, several necrosed teetli ex- tracted, and the gum scraped. A large gap of the left side of the face resulted, to fill up which a quadrilateral flap was taken from what remain- ed of the cheek. This failed to unite through- out, and a second plastic operation became neces- sary (see below); The lupoid disease did not recur. 13a. Diseased cervical glands.—The glands in both these cases were strumous and were ex- posed by incision and shelled, dissected,and scrap- ed out according to their condition. Repair was very slow in both cases owing to constitutional depravity. 13b. Diseased axillary glands.—Hindu male, cet.. 28. Had had a large sarcoma of left breast removed on 28th of December 1889. The glands of left, axilla underwent rather rapid en- largement during convalescence from that oper- ation, and were extirpated on 16th January 1891. These were found to be infiltrated and cystic. The wound healed in 19 days. 13c. Diseased inguinal glands.—These four- teen cases represent all classes of diseased glands that had resisted treatment,—virulent bubos glands disorganised by caseation and suppuration, indolent enlargements, open partially destroyed glands, malignant glands, &c. In the majority the disease was confined to one side; in five cases both sides were affected. The method of removal varied according to circumstances : simple enucleation, dissection or erasion with sharp spoon. In all cases every vestige of gland tissue was removed, and the wound left to heal by granulation, antiseptic measures being strict-47 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. ly carried out. The process of repair occupied from a fortnight to two months according to the size of wound and constitution of patient. In all cases a satisfactory result was obtained. 14. Haemorrhoids. — In two cases the lumps were removed by scissors according to White- head’s method, and in one by Smith’s clamp and cautery. VII.—Removal of Foreign Bodies. 1. Extraction of a piece of wood from the neck.—Hindu male, cet. 40. Fell from a tree six months ago on to some dry twigs, one of which entered the root of the neck right side and broke, leaving a piece behind. A sinus persisted, through which a hard substance was felt by the probe. The sinus was enlarged, and a cylindri- cal piece of wood f inch long and J in diameter was extracted. Patient spat a little blood after the operation. The wound healed in 15 days. 2. Extraction of a stem of grass from the mule bladder.—Hindu male, cet. 24. Was in the habit of passing a stem of grass into the urethra to relieve retention, and one day he lost hold of it, and it slipped in. He complains of a prick- ing sensation in the bladder and occasionallv passes blood. He has increased frequency of micturition, and the urine contains mucus and phosphates. Nothing could be detected with a sound. A small lithotrite was introduced under chloroform, and a stem of closely jointed grass withdrawn. It measured 6f inches in length. No irritation or constitutional disturbance en- sued, and he left hospital in two days.48 PRECIS OF OPERA.TIOHS. VIII.—Removal of Vesical Calculi. 1. Litholnpuxy.—i. Mahomedan male, at. 45. Symptoms of six years’ duration. The stone was crushed and ddbris removed by Bigelow’s method. Five introductions were necessary. Fragments weighed 7^ drachms. Had slight fever and cystitis for a few days. Discharged in 15 <lays. ii. Mahomedan male, at. 35. Symptoms ap- peared two years ago. One introduction sufficed ; debris weighed 50 grains. Discharged in 5 days. iii. Hindu male, at. 35. Symptoms appeared nine months ago. Two introductions; debris weighed 20 grains. Discharged in 4 days. iv. Hindu male, at. 50. Symptoms of three years’ duration. Three introductions ; two small stones. Discharged in 2 days. v. Hindu male, at. 50. Symptoms of six years’ duration. Three introductions. Very hard oxalic stone weighing 7 drachms 10 grains ; slight fever and cystitis for a few days. Dis- charged in 7 days. vi. Hindu male, at. 46. Has had urinary trouble for five years. Urine offensive; contains ropy mucus and phosphates. Urethra narrow and prostrate enlarged; instruments passed with much difficulty. Five introductions. 5 drachms and 40 grains of ddbris evacuated ; fluid observed to be highly sanguineous towards the last. Next day he was low and had passed no water, and a full-sized catheter failed to relieve him. There was considerable supra pubic dull- ness. Suspecting that the bladder was filled49 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. with clots, the perinaeum was divided and the bladder easily entered. It was empty with ex- ception of a few blood clots and grains of stone. He grew worse and died of collapse on the third day. On post-mortem examination a rent was found in the roof of the bladder opening into the prevesical space. Through this fluid (water, blood and m ine), and some calculous debris bad passed beneath the peritoneum as far as the loins. The membrane was injected. *** It would have been better to have cut this man. The urethral difficulties had pro- bably caused the beak of the lithotrite to come into sharp contact with the bladder roof at the moment of slipping in. A jerk was ex- perienced, as the prostatic resistance was over- come by firm pressure, but no suspicion of the occurrence of any accident was entertained. The distance to which the fluid travelled was due to the aspiration. vii. Hindu male, cet. 35. Symptoms of four years’ duration. Eight introductions. Debris weighed 2 drachms and 49 grains. Slightcystitis. Discharged in nine days. 2a. Lateral lithotomy.—i. Hindu male child, cet. 4. Has suffered from urinary difficulties for a year. A stone weighing 1 drachm and 45 grains was extracted by the lateral method. The wound healed in six days. Patient dis- charged iu nine days. ii. Hindu male, cet. 50. Symptoms of two years’ duration. Urethra would only admit No. 6 sound. A cutting operation was therefore preferred, and a stone weighing 6 drachms and 30 grains was removed by the left lateral method. D60 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. The wound healed in 19 days, aud patient was discharged in 22 days. iii. Hindu male child, cet. 3£. Symptoms of stone observed about a year ago. A stone weighing 1 drachm and 40 grains extracted by left lateral incision. Wound healed in 18 days. iv. Hindu male child, cet. 3 years. Symp- toms of two months’ duration. Left lateral litho- tomy; stone weighed 1 drachm and 52 grains. Smart bleeding occurred on the fourth day, which was stopped by passing a catgut loop round the left pudic artery. Wound healed in ten days. Discharged in 16 days. 26. Median lithotomy.—i. East Indian male, cet. 51. Has suffered from occasional re- tention for two years. A stone was detected in the prostatic urethra. Extraction by forceps failing, the urethra was opened by perinaeal section and two small calculi weighing respective- ly 8 aud 6 grains removed by dressing forceps. The bladder was explored, aud no other stone detected. A full sized catheter was passed every fourth day to maintain pateucy of the urethra. Discharged well in 31 days. ii. Hindu male, cet. 45. Suffered from go- norrhoea resulting in perinaeal abscesses and fistula 17 years ago. Perinaeal section was per- formed in this hospital, the urethra fully dilated, and patient taught to pass instruments. He re- mained well till eight, mouths ago when he had a perinaeal abscess followed by a sinus in the middle line, which has continued patent, aud discharges urine mucus and pus freely. A large stone was detected iu the bladder. The peri- naeal sinus was enlarged, aud the finger iutroduc-61 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. ed into the bladder. A large stone was found. The bladder was contracted and fasciculated and liued with a fibrinous membrane studded with phosphatic grit. The stone was crushed and re- moved by scoop, and the membrane scraped off the interior of the bladder, which was carefully syringed out with warm boracic lotion. A tube was tied in. He had very little constitutional disturbance. The bladder was regularly washed out with dilute acid to prevent phosphatic de- posit. The urethra was kept pateut by occa- sional passage of full-sized instruments. He left hospital 67 days after operation in good health with the peringeal opening almost closed. IX.—Incisions. 1. Laryngo-tracheotomy.—This was resorted to as a preliminary in the case of Kocher’s opera- tion already related (see VI. A. 1 6). The tube was removed on the 13th day, and the wound closed on the 21st day. 2. Laryngotomy.—Hindu female, cet. 40. Admitted with high fever and great dyspnoea from oedema glottidis. The larynx was opened through the crico-thyroid membrane by Surgeon J. R. Adie. The breathing was relieved, but patient died of exhaustion 13 hours afterwards. 3. Herniotomy for strangulation.—i. Hindu male, cet. 68. Right scrotal hernia of 30 years’ standing. Has worn a truss for 16 years. The rupture descended in unusual bulk 33 hours before operation, and could not be returned. The symptoms of strangulation well marked. Ice and taxis tried before admission without effect. Sac laid open, contained sanious fluid, and about62 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. a foot and a half of gangrenous small in- testine. The mesentery, which was also gan- grenous was tied in six segments and removed. The gangrenous gut was amputated, and the openings of the intestine stitched to each other and to the upper end of the wound. He began to pass stools through the wound on the second day, and seemed to do well till the sixth day, when symptoms of tetanus set in. These became rapidly worse, and he was removed by his friends in a moribund state on the seventh day. ii. Mahomedan male, cet. 30. Right scrotal hernia of 18 years’standing, came down 30 hours before operation and could not be reduced. Taxis tried without effect; symptoms of strangu- lation well marked, patient very low. Sac open- ed, and a knuckle of ecchymosed small intes- tine returned. A bit of bruised and matted omentum was removed. The sac was left and wound stitched. He lived for two days, but never rallied properly. Died of exhaustion. iii. Hindu male, cet.. 30. Right inguinal hernia existed from infancy. Came down on morning of admission, and could not be reduced. Taxis tried without avail. Suffering from shock. Sac laid open. Stricture in neck divided and contents returned. Operation completed as for radical cure. Made an excellent recovery, and was discharged in 26 days. iv. Hindu male, at. 25. Right inguinal her- nia of four years’ standing. Came down ten days before admission, and lias remained unreduced siuce then. Very low ; abdomen tympanitic. Sac opened. Stricture in neck divided. Intestine, which was inflamed and claret coloured but firm,PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. S3 returned. Operation completed as for radical cure. Patient did not rally. Passed several loose stools. Exhaustion progressive. Died 24 hours after operation. v. Mahomedan male, cet. 50. Right scrotal hernia unreducible for five days with complete obstruction. Patient very low. Sac laid open. Intestine, highly congested but firm, returned. A mass of congested and matted omentum removed. Operation completed as for radical cure. Patient passed several stools but continued to sink. Died 16^ hours after operation. vi. Hindu male, cet. 55. Right inguinal hernia of four years’ standing. Came down about 19 hours before operation. Ice and taxis failed. Sac opened by Dr. Pilgrim. Stricture at neck divided, and intestine returned, neck of sac isolated and tied, fundus left. Died of persisting shock 17 hours after operation. *#* The foregoing is a very sad record. The fatal result in five out of six cases was undoubt- edly due to delay in applying for relief. The only case in which any reasonable prospect of success existed made a good recovery. 4 a. Radical cure of inguinal hernia.—i. Hindu male, ait. 45. Admitted with large left hydrocele from which 11 lbs. and 10 ozs. of fluid were evacuated. He also had a right and very large scrotal hernia, for which he implored an operation, which was performed after some hesi- tation, because he suffered from chronic bronchi- tis. On exposing and opening the sac it was found to contain small intestine and a mass of omentum which was adherent to the interior of the sac. The gut was reduced, and the omentumPRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 5i separated by knife, and its cut edge stitched with a continuous suture. It was then reduced within the ring. The operation was then completed in the usual way by tying the neck of the sac, isolating and removing the rest of it, bringing the pillars together with strong catgut, making an opening in the fundus of the scrotum and inserting a drainage tube into it, and finally applying an antiseptic dressing. The wound re- mained aseptic and promised well, but the man got broncho-pneumonia on the third day, and died of it on the fifth day after operation. ii. Mahomedan male, cet. 31. Right inguinal hernia of four years’ duration. Operated on in the usual manner. Inguinal opening laced. The external wound healed in nine days. Dis- charged with a truss in 31 days. iii. Chinaman, cet. 30. Right inguinal hernia of 27 years’standing. Usual operation. Wouud healed in 14 days. Detained in hospital by an abscess of the face. Discharged in 59 days. iv. Eurasian male, cet. 22. Right inguinal hernia of two and half years’ standing. Usual operation. Wound healed in nine days. Dis- charged with a truss in 33 days. v. Hindu male, cet. 49. Right inguinal hernia of six or seven years’ duration. Usual operation. Wound healed in 12 days. Discharged with a truss in 23 days. vi. Mahomedan male, cet. 55. Right inguinal hernia of two years’ standing. Operation as usual. Wound healed in nine days. Discharg- ed with a truss in 29 days. vii. Mahomedan male, cet. 55. Admitted with an incarcerated right inguinal hernia whichPRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 65 wa3 reduced by taxis. He wanted to be cured by operation, and in a few days the usual procedure for radical cure was resorted to. Wound healed by first intention in ten days. Detained for 35 days for the treatment of a gluteal abscess. viii. Mahomedan male, c&t. 45. Underwent operation for right inguinal hernia three years ago. Another rupture appeared on the same side, which was operated on successfully seven mouths ago. A small hernia th en existed on the left side, which has grown large and troublesome. This was subjected to the usual operation. The wound healed in 12 days. Discharged with a double truss after 40 days’ detention. *%* The man underwent three operations for hernia, two on the right, and one on the left side. The result of the second operation on the right side was satisfactory when lie was admitted for the third time. ix. Hindu male,ce£. 46. Right inguinaal herni of 15 years’ duration. He was operated on in the usual way. He fell into a state of demen- tia on the second day, refused food, removed the dressings, and passed his excreta in the bed- clothes. The wouud gaped and healed by gra- nulation. He was removed by his friends 72 days after operation. He subsequently return- ed, in his senses, to have the ulcer closed. This occurred after a short residence, and the final result was satisfactory. *** This was the third case of post operation dementia observed during the year. The other two were cases of scrotal elephantiasis. Such cases are not uncommon. There was no pyrexia in this case.PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 56 x. Hindu male, out. 35. Admitted on 9lli July, with double inguinal hernia, right side of four years' and left of one year’s duration. The right ' side was operated on the 13th of July in the usual way. The wound healed by first intentiou in nine days. xi. The left hernia, which was very small, was operated on 23rd of July, ten days after the right. The wound healed in 12 days. Patient discharged on 27th September (49 days) with a double spring truss. xii. East Indian male, cut. 50. Rio-ht inguinal hernia of 18 years’ standing. Usual opera- tion. Recovery delayed by an abscess, which formed in the scrotum. Discharged with a truss 69 days after operation, xiii. Hindu male, cut. 25. Admitted on 11th August with a left inguinal hernia in a stran- gulated condition. It was reduced by taxis after application of ice, and an operation for radical cure was performed on tlie 16th. Wound healed in 16 days. Discharged in 20 days. xiv. Mahomedan male,cezf. 50. Right inguinal hernia and varicocele. Admitted on 17th Au- gust with strangulated hernia. It was reduced by taxis after application of ice. The hernia was operated on on the 23rd in the usual way. The varicocele was removed at the same time after ligation above and below. Wound healed in 14 days. Discharged on 6th of October. xv. Mahomedan male, cet. 30. Right inguinal hernia of five years’ duration. Had undergone operation by Dr. O’Brien in October 1889. The hernia recurred in six months. The usual operation was performed. There was a scar at67 PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. the fundus of the sac giving evidence of the previous operation. Wound liealed m 13 days. Discharged in 27 days. xvi. Hindu male, cet. 40. Right inguinal her- nia of six months’ duration; hydrocele on same side. Usual operation. Wound healed in 14 days. Hydrocele subsequently tapped and in- jected. Discharged in 31 days. xvii. Mahomedan male, cet. 32. Right ingui- nal hernia of six years’ duration. Wound healed in nine days. Discharged in 23 days. xviii. Hindu male, cet. 40. Right inguinal hernia of ten years’ standing. Usual operation. Did well for two days. On the third day patient removed his dressings, the wound putrefied, the temperature ran up, and on the sixth day gan- grenous cellulitis set in. Broncho-pueuinonia appeared on the 12th day, and lasted for a week The cellulitis gave rise to a number of sinuses which suppurated freely. Died of exhaustion 43 days after operation. On post-mortem examina- tion the peritoneum and bowels were found healthy. The sinuses were superficial. xix. Mahomedan male, cet. 30. Right inguinal hernia of 19 months’ duration. Operated on in the usual way. Wound healed in 10 days. Discharged in 15 days. These ruptures were situated with two exceptions on the right side. The operation has been fully described in previous papers. The neck of the sac was transfixed as well as tied, and the sac removed in all cases. When the open- ing was large, it was closed by lacing the ring; the end of the first ligature being crossed and re- entered from within outwards higher up. AnPRECIS OF OPERATIONS . 58 opening was made in the f undus of the scrotum in all but one case, and a drainage tube inserted. This was withdrawn after a few days. Drain- age was also provided above by leaving the end of the pillar sutures long. The track of the tube and threads sometimes remained open after the wound had healed. Patients were detained until the parts had become quite callous, aud invariably provided with a truss with instruc- tions to wear it for six months. Two of the operations were for recurrence after previous similar operation. In one of the two fatal cases death was due to lung complication, which cannot be specially associated with the opera- tion, and in the other, the succession of misfor- tunes, which ended in death, was due to the patient’s own act in exposiug the wound. This was the only case in which the wound became septic. 4 b. Operation for the cure of ventral hernia.— European male, aged 40, a sailor, admitted into the medical wards with severe epigastric pain. A hernial protrusion was detected about two inches above the umbilicus. Patient emaciated ; unable to sleep from incessant pain. He was transfered to theFirst Surgeon’s ward to have the hernia operated on, as it was suspected that the pain, &c., were due to it. The lump was exposed by careful dissection and found to be a lobule of fat (subperitoneal), projecting through a hole in the linea alba. This was reduced, the aperture closed with catgut stitches, and the wound care- fully dressed antiseptically. It healed by first intention. The pain was less for two days, aud then recurred as severely as ever. He began59 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. to get epileptic fits five days after the opera- tion, and died of exhaustion, caused by a suc- cession of these, next day. On post-mortem examination an aneurism of the coeliac axis was found. The wound had undergone aseptic re- pair. No peritonitis. 5. Operation for imperfectly descended testis and congenital hernia.—Mahomedan male, cet. 17. Admitted with a strangulated left inguinal hernia, which was reduced after application of ice. The testicle of that side remained in the canal, corresponding half of scrotum empty. Two days after admission an incision was made in the left groin over the external ring. The testicle was found with an unobliterated pro- cessus, which was dissected out, tied at the ex- ternal ring, divided and reduced. The testis was then brought down into the scrotum and secured there by a catgut loop. The sides of the inguinal canal were laced together by the same material, a counter-opening made in the side of the scrotum, and a drain inserted. The external wound was then stitched, and an anti- septic dressing applied. The wound healed by first intention. The catgut loop was re- moved on the lltli day, and the testis remained in position. Discharged 17 days after opera- tion. 6a. Laparotomy for injury.—Hindu male, cet. 4. Gored in the stomach by a wild boar, intestines protruding. Admitted in a state of pro- found shock. The intestines were carefully washed with warm boiacic lotion, and returned after the wound had been enlarged. It was then carefully stitched. The child did not rally fromPRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 60 the shock, which proved fatal three hours after operation. 6b. Laparotomy for obstruction.—Mahome- tan male, oat. 30. Admitted into the 1st Phy- sician’s ward for obstruction of the bowels of four days’ duration. After 24 hours’ treatment (in- cluding puncture of the distended intestines), he was transferred for operation. The symptoms pointed to the descending colou as the seat of obstruction. The abdomen was opened iu the middle line, and a twist, of the sigmoid flexure was found. When this was undone, liquid fasces escaped freely per annm. The abdominal wound was stitched. He continued to pass stools, but the prostration, which existed previous to the operation, became more profound, and he died of exhaustion eight hours after it. 7a. Tenotomy for contracted hamstrings.— i. Hindu male, cat. 45. Admitted with flexed knee-joints, the result of gonorrhoeal arthritis. Extension by splints having been tried in vain, the hamstring tendons were divided subcu- taneously, and the joints straightened. The punctures healed in a few days. He was provid- ed with crutches, and his ankles were weighted with shot bags, each containing 2 lbs. After © * © 74 days’ treatment, he left the hospital with good use of his lower extremities. ii. Mahomedan male,cef. 35. Seventeenmonths ago his patella was broken, and knee-joint dam- aged by the tusk of a wild boar. The wound healed in six months, but the fragments of the broken boim remained widely apart, and the joint was fixed at an angle of about 120°, very little mo- tion remaining.PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 61 The hamstring tendons which were very tense, were divided subcutaneously, and the joint straightened. The limb continued weak and useless, and wiring of the broken patella was done seven days later with good success (see IV, 2). 7b. Tenotomy for talipes equinus—European female, cut. 30. Suffered from fever seven years previously which caused contraction of the muscles of the calf. The Tendo Achillis was divided subcutaneously on both sides, and the deformity was completely remedied. 7 c. Tenotomy for talipes equino-varus.— These four cases were in children, two single, and two double. The cases present no feature worthy of note. 8. Incision for contracted orifice of meatus urinarius.—i. Mahomedan male child, aged 10 months. The glans penis was congenitally cleft interiorly, and the urethra opened by a very small orifice, through which urine came in drops, in this cleft. A fine canalicular director was passed, and the orifice slit open, and the edges stitched to maintain patency. Discharg- ed iu four days with a wide meatus through which urine came iu good stream. ii. Mahomedan male, cet. 12. A precisely similar case. Similarly treated. Discharged iu nine days. Result satisfactory. 9. Internal urethrotomy.—Hindu male, cut. 20. This was a case of stricture, complicated with scrotal fistula, in which gradual dilatation had been practised with good effect. A band crossed the roof of the urethra which impededPRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 62 the passage of instruments. This was divided by Civiale’s urethrotome, and no difficulty was subsequently experienced. 10<7. External urethrotomy ( Cock's operation). —i. Hindu male, cat. 30. Admitted with re- tention due to stricture of eight months’ standing. The bladder had been tapped with a fiue trochar above the symphysis. It was found impossible to introduce a catheter. There was a hard swell- ing of the perinseuin, the prepuce was oedema- tous, and bladder distended. Patient low and anxious. The perinaeum was transfixed with a straight bistoury which entered the cavity of an abscess. Through this a Syme’s catheter was introduced into the bladder and retained. Incisions were made in the cedematous prepuce. The result of the operation was satisfactory. The urethra was dilated, and kept dilated by occasional passage of instruments. Discharged in 36 days with perinseal wound closed, and able to make water in full stream. ii. Hindu male, cet. 30. Admitted with re- tention due to stricture and boggy fluctuating swellings in the perinaeal and suprapubic regions. Instruments could not be introduced into the bladder. Tongue dry. General condition low. The bladder was reached by Cock’s method, and the suprapubic and perimeal swellings freely incised. They emitted very foetid pus and com- municated with each othei’. Drainage tubes were inserted, and a Syme’s catheter tied in. He was relieved by the operation, and did well for two days. He then got high fever, diarrhoea, and hiccup, and died of septic poisoning on the fifth day after operation.PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 63 iii. Hindu male, cet. 40. Admitted with ex- travasation of urine caused by perinaeal abscess. Penis and scrotnm gangrenous. The bladder was reached by Cock’s method, and the infiltra- ted parts freely incised. A Syme’s catheter was tied in. The symptoms of septicaemia gradually increased. He became delirious seven days after operation, and died of exhaustion next morning. 10b. External urethrotomy (Syme’s operation) —i. Mahomedan male, cet. 45. Admitted with stricture and several fistulae,—perinaeal, scrotal and pubic. The urethra was dilated with Lister’s sounds, but no improvement took place. The perinaeum was laid freely open on a guide, the fistulae incised, and a Syme’s catheter tied in. This was retained for seven days, and a full sized sound was passed every third or fourth day into the bladder. The fistulae healed,and perinaeal wound gradually closed. He left hospital after 128 days’ residence, passing urine in full stream per urethram. ii. European male, cet. 40. Admitted with stricture of seven years’standing. This was treat- ed by rapid dilatation by means of Lister’s steel sounds. The operation was followed by high fever, which subsided next day ; but on the third day the prepuce scrotum and periiueum were found to be swollen, and the latter tender on pressure. Perinaeal section was performed on a guide, free incisions made in the swollen parts, and a soft catheter tied in. He continued to suffer from fever. An abscess (? pyaemic) formed suddenly in the right groin on the third day/hud was opened. On the fifth day sudden and severe bleeding took place from the wound,64 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. and he died of exhaustion due to the combined effects of septic fever and secondary haemorrhage. iii. Hindu male, oet. 26. Admitted with re- tention of urine and ocdematous penis, scrotum and periuaeum. About eleven days previously he had applied at the outdoor department for relief of retention. An impacted calculus was then detected and extracted. He was able to pass water freely in the interval. The urethra admitted a No. 7 grooved staff easily, and on this the periuaeum was freely divided, and a Syme’s catheter introduced into the bladder. Incisions were made iu the cedematous parts, and through one of these from between the testes foetid pus freely welled out. The cavity of this abscess communicated with the urethra. A drainage tube was inserted. His temperature become normal soon after the operation. A large slough came out of the abscess cavity which then collapsed and contracted. The catheters were withdrawn on the seventh day, and a full sized instrument passed every few days. The perineal wound gradually closed, and he left hospital 37 days after the operation, able to pass water per uretli- ram in full stream. *** The abscess in this case was no doubt due to extravasation at the site of impaction. iv. Hindu male, cet. 40. Was under treat- ment for carbuncle of right thigh wheu an abscess formed in the perinajum causing reten- tion. This was laid open, the strictured urethra divided, a No. 10 catheter passed, and a Syme’s catheter tied in and retained for two days. A full sized instrument was occasionally passed,and the man was discharged quite well iu 67 days.PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 65 v. Mahometan male, cet. 55. Admitted 011 loth May with stricture, retention of uriue, and fistula at the root of the penis, right side. An instrument could not be passed through the stricture. The urethra was opened in front of the stricture after Wheelhouse’s method. The grooved probe was then passed through the stricture, which was divided freely, and a Syme’s catheter was introduced and retaiued for three days. A full sized instrument was subsequent- ly passed every few days, aud the periuasal wound allowed to close. On the 20th of June, an abscess formed at the root of the penis, and burst, the fistula at this site beiug then re-estab- lished. On the 24th periuasal section was again performed. The fistula closed ou the four day. A full sized instrument was passed every fourth day,and he was discharged well ou the 23rd July. vi. Hindu male, cet. 40. Admitted with stricture and penile scrotal and perimeal fistulas. The stricture was gradually dilated, but the fistulas persisting, perineeal section was per- formed. He was detained in hospital for 146 days. His spleen was large, and he suffered occasionally from malarious fever. Eventually all the fistulas closed with exception of the penile fistula. He was able to make water in full stream per urethram when he left hospital. vii. Hindu male, cet. 46. This was a case of litholapaxy, in which suppression of urine fol- lowed the operation under peculiar circum- stances (vide VIII, 1, vi). The perinasum was opened ou a guide, under the impression that the case was one of retention due to mechanical obstruction by blood clots. EPRECIS OP OPERATIONS. G6 10c. External urethrotomy (Wheelhouses operation).—i. Hindu male, out. 30. Admitted with stricture, which was in process of gradual dilatation, when he absconded. He returned with aggravated symptoms, and intermittent di- latation was again resorted to, hut without satis- factory relief. The urethra was opened in front of the stricture, which was entered and divided on Wheelhouse’s director-probe. The bladder was thus easily reached. A full-sized instru- ment was passed occasionally, and patient absconded a second time before the cure was complete 23 days after operation. ii. Mahomedan male, cet. 50. Fell on his perimeum 28 years ago, injuring his urethra. This injury resulted in stricture, which was dilated 16 years ago by Dr. Lawrie, and re- curring was again dilated three years ago by Dr. McLeod. On this occasion he came with re- tention, and as a catheter conld not be intro- duced, the stricture was divided by Wheel- house’s method, and a full-sized catheter intro- duced. Care was taken to keep the urethra fully dilated, and he was discharged well in 22 days. He has since then come to have a bougie passed occasionally. iii. Hindu male, cet. 30. Admitted with stricture and ten fistulous openings—perimeal, scrotal, penile and pubic. The stricture was tight and tortuous, and admitted with difficulty the smallest probe pointed bougie. No uriue came through the urethra. As the case was not a promising oue for gradual dilatation, Wheelhouse’s operation was performed, and a Syme’s catheter tied in. This was removed onPRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 67 me seventh day, and a full-sized instrument was subsequently passed every fourth day. The fis- tulie had closed with exception of two, one pubic and one penile, and he was doing well, when, on the 44th day, he was attacked with dysentery which proved intractable. He died of wasting and exhaustion 56 days after operation. iv. Hindu male, cet. 40. Admitted with very tight stricture and eight perinasal fistulas, Wheel- house’s operation was performed. A full-sized instrument introduced per urethram, and Syme’s catheter tied in. This was removed on the third day, and a full-sized instrument subsequently passed at intervals. He left hospital in 69 days with the fistulas and perinasal wound closed, and able to make water in good stream. %* The three operations above illustrated have each their separate sphere and are by no means interchangeable. Syme’s is applicable to an obstinate or recurrent or very callous or resilient stricture through which a guide can be passed into the bladder. Wbeelhouse’s method is useful in the case of a very tight or tortuous stricture through which an instrument fails to pass or when false passages exist, and there is a doubt whether the instrument fairly traverses the urethra or reaches the bladder. Under these circumstances the plan of opening the urethra in front of the stricture and deliberately seeing, entering and dividing it is satisfactory, and if patiently and cautiously carried out always successful. Cock’s transfixiou of the perimeum in front of the rectum is the only resort in cases when by injury, destructive disease or reckless in-68 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. strumentation the urethra has been lacerated or destroyed, an instrument cannot be passed, re- tention is urgent and extravasation imminent or in actual existeuce. The cases above related were all of a very aggravated type, and are very common in India as a result of neglect or mismanagement. 11. Incision for imperforate anus.—Hindu female child, six months’ old. Anus absolutely imperforate, passes faices through vagina. An incision was made in front of the tip of the coc- cyx. A director was passed through the recto- vaginal fistula and the rectal cloaca pushed into the wound. The gut was then incised, pulled down, and its edges stitched to the edges of the skin wouud. Fasces came at once through the opening. The stitches were removed on the fourth day. Stools were passed without difficul- ty through the new anal opening, and none came per vaginam. The child was not brought back after that date. 12. Incision for stricture of anus.—Hindu male, aet. 24. Six months previously he applied some caustic to his piles which caused them to slough off. The process of cicatrization reduced the orifice to the size of a crow-quill. This was enlarged by antero-posterior incision in front and behind, aud the edges of the cut were stitched together. About 31bs. of fasces were passed at once. The edges of the wouud healed as stitch- ed, and an excellent anal opening resulted. He remained in hospital 45 days. 13. Incision for stricture of rectum.—i. Euro- pean female, cet. 23. Stricture of syphilitic origin, complicated with recto-vaginal fistula.69 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. An incision was made posteriorly, and the gut kept open subsequently by bougies. ii. Hindu female, at. 20. Tight stricture iu lower third of rectum with two internal piles. The piles were removed by clamp and cautery, and the stricture incised posteriorly. Bougies were subsequently passed, ldesult satisfactory. Detained 57 days. 14. Incision for recto-vaginalJistula.—Euro- pean female, cet. 23. History of syphilis and stricture of rectum (see 13, i). An abscess form- ed in left labium about a fortnight before admis- sion which burst, and faeces and flatus were ob- served subsequently to pass through the aper- ture. A director was passed through the sinus into the rectum, and cut out as in an operation for anal fistula. The wound healed by granula- tion iu 53 days. 15. Scrotal abscesses.—Of these six cases, four were suppurated hydroceles, one a suppur- ated luematocele, and one a scrotal abscess. They were all treated by antiseptic incision and drainage, and did well, the cavity of the tunica becoming obliterated in about a month. 16. Large abscesses.—It would serve no use- ful purpose to detail these twenty-five cases, all of which did well under antiseptic management. 17. Sinuses.—These were the result of large abscesses untreated or badly treated. They were laid open, freely scraped, rendered aseptic, and treated for granulation, rest of body and part and constitutional treatment being carefully carried out. The result of treatment was satis- factory in all but one case which, getting im- patient, absconded.PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 70 X.—Reparative Operations. 1. For ectropion.—Hindu male, act. 8. This child was admitted with severe burn of face, arm, and forearm. Both lids of right eye were everted by the cicatricial contraction. Two plastic operations were required. Triangular flaps were cut above and below, the lids forming the base. The sides of the wound were approxi- mated by stitches. The tissues were more or less cicatricial, and the result was not satisfac- tory. On the second occasion flaps were cut and transplanted to support the replaced lids wilh better success. Assistance was derived from stitching the lids together for a few days. 2. For closing an opening in the cheek.— Nepalese female, cet. 46. The deficiency in this case was due to the removal of a large lupoid growth from the left cheek. Two operations were found necessary, consisting in the trans- plantation of flaps from the neighbourhood. On the second occasion the upper and lower lips were freed and moved across to the left. A small gap remaining in the corner of the mouth, a third operation was proposed, but not consented to. There was no return of the lupus when patient left hospital after 111 days’ treatment. 3. For lacerated perinceum.—Hindu female child, cet. 4. This girl had been brutally outraged by having a stick thrust into her vulva. The perina3um was completely and badly lacerated. The edges of the ragged wound were brought together by stitches. These gave way and the wound gaped. The parts were allowed to heal, and the periuEeum was then restored by splitting the cicatrix transversely and converting the traus-71 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. verse into an antero-posterior wound after Law- son Tait’s method, This proved successful. She remained in hospital 44 days. 4. For ulcers on bony projections.—In both cases the bony projection was removed by gouge; the skin freed all round, and its edges approxi- mated by stitches. The result was satisfactory. XI.—Operations not Classed. 1—2. For prolapsus of the rectum.—Hindu male, cut. 19. Admitted on 27th January with very aggravated prolapsus or procidentia of the rectum. This commenced eight years ago after an attack of dysentery, and has gradually got worse. The whole of the rectum is everted when he strains at stool, the prolapsed mass attaining the size of a foetal head, 6 inches long and 12 inches in circumference. It is reduced by hand with difficulty ; mucous membrane chronically con- gested and thickened, covered with sticky mucus. Sphincter enormously dilated, admits the fist easily. On the 1st February the mucous mem- brane of the prolapsed gut was carefully cleaned and dried, and scored vertically from the sphinc- ter to the fundus in seven places with a hot iron ; each burn being about 4 inches long, and as deep as the muscular coat. The prolapsus was reduced, a morphia suppository inserted, and opium administered in full doses. The prolapsus recurred to the full extent on the 11th day ; the ulcers caused by the cautery were stretched and bled, and after they healed the condition of the patient was as bad as ever. Ou the 1st of March the following operation was performed : —The prolapsed gut was thoroughly cleaned and re-PRECIS OP OPERATIONS. 72 duced, the left hand following it until its fingers were felt above Poupart’s ligament in the left inguinal regiou. The reduced gut was fixed to the abdominal wall in this region by two steel pins introduced from without inwards, transfix- ing the gut, guided across its interior by the’ fingers of the left hand and then passed outwards through gut, and abdominal wall. They were placed at a distance of three inches. Au incision three inches long was then made along the course of the gut through the abdominal wall till it reached the peritoneum, which was not opened. Two rows of four silk stitches were then passed through the wound, fixing the two outer coats of the intestine to the abdominal wall on each side of the wound, which was finally closed by three transverse stitches, which also held the two outer coats of the gut. This stitching was done by means of a handled needle, and the fingers of the left hand guided its course through the intestinal wall. The wound was dressed autiseptically, and the patient put on full dose of opium. The needles were removed on the 2nd. Stitches removed and loosened on the 9th, his rectum being unloaded with a scoop on that day. He had a little fever on the 10th and 11th day, which was relieved by a carminative aperient. On the 12th the rectum was washed out. He passed his first stool spon- taneously without prolapse on the 14th. The wound was completely healed on the 17th. He began to walk about on the 24th, and passed stools regularly without protrusion, and was dis- charged on 12th April. Readmitted 9th June with prolapse of the mucous membrane, whichPRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 73 slips out when he strains ;it stool to the size of a walnut, returning on pressure or resuming the erect posture. Sphincter very loose. A wedge of anal verge including the sphincter and loose .rectal mucous membrane was clamped on the right side removed by scissors and cauterized. He recovered rapidly, and was discharged on 2nd August. The sphincter was still loose, and a slight prolapse occurred during stool on leftside, disappearing on standing. The gut remained fixed at the site of stitches, and the rectal wall was smooth and tight. He came to show himself in November with slight prolapse of anal verge during stool; but an operation was not con- sidered necessary. In February 1891 he again presented himself, and at his urgent request the clamp and cautery operation was repeated on left side. He appeared again on the 9th of July 1891, and showed a small protrusion of mucous membrane on straining, but it was not considered necessary to operate. He has not turned up again up to the present (October 1891). *** The foregoing presents a complete narra- tive of this remarkable case. The operation has been described in fuller detail in this journal and in the Lancet. The fixation of the upper part of the rectum to the abdominal wall was satis- factorily and permanently accomplished by the means resorted to, and the procidentia has been undoubtedly cured thereby ; but the relaxed state of the sphincter permits of a protrusion of the anal mucous membrane which will probably continue all his life. The lad had a cancellous exostosis of the lower end of the femur success- fully removed in April 1891.74 PRECIS OF OPERATIONS. Prolapse of rectum cauterised.—Mahomedan mule, cet. 50. Hus been subject to prolapse at stool for five years. The prolapsed gut was scored longitudinally with a hot iron as in the last case. His bowels were kept confined for three days, and a dose of castor-oil given on the fourth. He left hospital six days after the operation, and has not been heard of since then. 3. Paracentesis of bladder.—This was re- sorted to as a temporary expedient to relieve a distended bladder. The case was subsequently treated successfully by external urethrotomy. 4. Evasion of lupus.—'These three opera- tions were performed on the same patient, who had a very aggravated lupus of the nose and adjoining part of the cheeks. (Var. exedens). Volkmann’s sharp spoon was the instrument em- ployed, and the final result was satisfactory. 5. Erasion of rodent ulcer of face.—Malio- medan male, cet. 58. Has been suffering for five years. The ulcer was scraped in May 1888 without benefit. The ulcer has destroyed the lids and right side of the face extensively aud exposed and eroded the bone. The edges were dissected off, the diseased bone removed by a chisel, and the soft parts thoroughly scraped and mopped with chloride of zinc, 1 iu 40. The eye-ball and anterior wall of antrum were re- moved. The ulcer contracted aud seemed to be in process of healing when he insisted on leaving hospital 56 days after the operation. He has not been heard of since then. 6. Continuous dilatation of stricture.—The instruments used for this purpose were Lister’s75 PRECIS OX<’ OPERATIONS. steel probe pointed and graduated bougies in- troduced successively iu series. Three of the cases were complicated with fistulas. The result in all cases was satisfactory. The patients were retained for some tune after full patency had been reached for the purpose of having a No. 9 12 passed every third day, and a few of them attended occasionally afterwards to have the instrument passed. General Remarks. among Mortality.—The general death-rate the operations of 1890, namely, 6'41 per cent of cases treated to the end, is unprecedentedly favourable, and this result has by no means resulted from any decline in the number of serious operations or in the gravity of the opera- tions themselves, nor was any principle of selec- tion resorted to ; nor can the constitution and health of the subjects of operation be said to have undergone any change for the better. The result is entirely due to improved general and wound hygiene, and the absence of those sequel® of wounds and injuries which used to be embraced in the comprehensive and sugges- tive term hospitalism. Causes of death.—An analysis of the causes of mortality confirms this statement; very few of them are fairly attributable to the operation itself; the great majority being due to the con- ditions preceding operation for which operative treatment was—often too late—resorted to. Under this category come the four herniotomy and four urethrotomy cases, the two trephiningPRECIS OF OPERATIONS. 7 (j cases, the two laparotomy cases, the empyasma, the double amputation and the laryngotomy— io of the 20. Tlie two deaths which occurred among the 19 operations for radical cure of hernia were due to broncho-pneumonia, and in one of these the patient contributed to the fatal result by re- moving his dressings and inducing a septic state of wound. The fatal result in the case of ven- tral hernia was in no way connected with the operation. The death after litholapaxy re- sulted from an unfortunate accident. The only case of fatal tetanus was a septic case, a compound fracture of the radius ad- mitted three days after the accident. An- other case of tetanus occurred after herniotomy and open bowel. He was removed by his friends in a moribund state. The experience of the year supports the statement previously advanced regarding the decline of this disease in the hospital since the introduction of antiseptic treatment. Antiseptics.—The same system of dressing wounds, which has been described in previous reports, has been employed during the year. Bichloride of mercury gauze has been ex- clusively used as an outer dressing, and boracic gauze and lint as inner dressings. Equal parts of iodoform and boracic acid have been used for dusting. A septic wound or sore is now a very excep- tional thing in the hospital, and wounds ad- mitted in a septic condition are in most cases rendered aseptic.Y ■ ■ - \