ON SUPPURATION ETC. 150 beyond it; so that when the dead portion comes to be sepa- rated from the living-, there is no loss of blood in consequence of the opening of such vessels. This process of coagulation, in cases where mortification attacks the lower part of a limb, will extend very considerably above the point to which mortification seems to reach externally, so that in the case of amputating a thigh, where the mortification has not extended above the knee, the femoral artery has been completely filled up, plugged up, with bloody coagulum, so as not to require the application of a ligature. That which has undergone mortification is separated from the sound part of the body by a process which will afterwards be described to you. I may only mention to you here, that there is a considerable difference in point of the time that is occupied for this separation in particular cases. You may sometimes find a mortified part separated in the course of a few days, whilst, in other instances, the separation may occupy many weeks, or even months. There is very considerable difference in the constitutional symptoms that are seen in different in- stances of mortification. In cases of slight mortification of superficial parts, there are often no constitutional symptoms at all. When mortification is the result of high inflammatory action, there is generally a remission of symptoms taking place at the time the mortification occurs; the high febrile disturb- ance becomes diminished; but if the mortification be not very considerable, the local inflammation may continue nearly in the same degree, and there will be little difference observed in the constitutional symptoms. You will have occasion to observe, what we pointed out, in speaking of sympathetic inflammation, the conformity between the character of the constitutional disturbance and that of the local disease ; for where a pari of the body perishes in this way you find general symptoms of debility are present—symptoms approaching very much to typhoid. The pulse is very feeble, intermittent, and irregular; the body is covered with a clammy sweat;—there is a complete loss of muscular power, sometimes even with syncope; hiccup takes place; the alimentary canal becomes distended with gas, approaching to the tympanitic state. In fact, all the circumstances denote the lowest degree of depression in the powers of the system generally.