GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 212 most serious kind; that is, they produce injuries which are attended with very serious local inflammation. The degree of violence with which these wounds are inflicted, differs in differ- ent instances. If a gun-shot projectile meet the body directly and in full force, it traverses the part if it be small; or if it be larger, and meet a limb, for example, it probably carries it away. If a small substance meet the body directly, with a less degree of force, it will tear and lacerate the part, break and splinter the bone, producing injuries of this kind according to the degree of force with which it was moving. Sometirpes balls or bullets strike the body obliquely; they do not come directly against it, but they strike it at various angles, and, in fact, do not enter the body, but, having touched it, glance off again. Under these circumstances, the soft textures that inter- vene between the skin and the hone may be divided, and effusion of blood may take place; the bone itself may be broken without the skin apparently being injured It often happens in battle, that persons are found dead on the field in whom there is no appearance of a wound to account for death; but if the bodies be accurately examined, some injury of this kind will be found to have taken place; and those injuries have been very commonly ascribed to the “ wind of the ball.” It has been supposed, that a ball which has not struck the body, but has passed very near to it, produces some kind of influ- ence, and that influence has vaguely been ascribed to the <c wind of the cannon ball.” I fancy this explanation does not rest on any solid foundation ; we have no proof for saying that a cannon ball, by its wind, in passing very near to the body, will commit this injury ; in fact, if the limb of a person be cut off by a cannon ball, it is certain that the ball must go very near to the other, yet you do not find that other at all injured. There can be no doubt that death arises from these projectiles striking the body obliquely, and then flying off. We see in cases of accident, that internal parts may be bruised, and bones broken, though the skin is not injured. The mere absence of injury of the skin, is no proof that considerable violence has not been offered to the parts within. With respect to the symptoms of gun-shot wounds, I may observe, that sometimes the immediate occurrence of the acci- d: t is not denoted by any symptoms, that is, the patient is not c ladous that the wound has been received, more particularly if„ mind was very actively engaged at the time the wound was inflicted, as in the instance of persons in battle. A leg or a thigh may be shot through, and the patient may not be aware of the fact until he discovers it by accident. Very often a serious wound of other parts may be inflicted, of which the