272 SCROFULA. as far as I have seen, of injury of any kind ; so that I am in- clined to think the notion, which has been pretty extensively spread, of the peculiarly unfavourable influence of mercury in scrofulous individuals, is by no means well founded. When mercury is given in the way I have mentioned, we may em- ploy calomel with James’s powder, or Dover s powder, or give the bydrarg. cum creta. Sometimes the oxymuriate of mercury may be given with the tincture of bark. A grain of the oxy- muriate may be mixed with an ounce of the tincture of bark, and a tea-spoonful may be taken three times a-day ; that will he about an eighth of a grain three times a-day. The state of the skin is a point of particular importance in scrofulous sub- jects. We very commonly find a dry, harsh, and pallid state of the skin ; a state of the skin where there is a defect in the capillary circulation ; where the blood which is sent to the mi- nute vessels remains there. When we consider the great extent of the skin, the importance of its secretion, the quantity of matter that is daily separated from the body through it, we cannot but suppose that the condition of the skin must have a very great effect on the health ; and, certainly, in scrofulous subjects, we find it in a condition very far from one of health. Under these circumstances the warm-bath is very useful. Where this cannot be employed, washing the skin over with warm water, and rubbing it well, will be of service. The indi- viduals in whom such a state of skin exists should be warmly clothed. It is a very mistaken notion to suppose that the kind of weakness which exists in scrofulous subjects can be reme- died by hardening them, as it is termed—that is, by allowing them to be exposed to cold and vicissitudes of temperature. The animal powers are defective in those systems, and therefore they require every assistance to the due discharge of their func- tions. They are not capable of encountering vicissitudes of •weather, and therefore they should not be exposed to them, t is always desirable that they should have exeicisej an t lere fore I by no means wish they should be kept at home, or within doors, because it is cold; they should be allowed to go out and take exercise, care being taken that they are so clothe as to prevent their taking cold. It is found in animals that the power of generating heat is much less in those that are young than in adults. A proof of the advantage which individuals derive from a warm temperature and a proper supply of nutri- ment peculiarly adapted to the purposes of the animal economy, mav be, I think, found in the fact that children, during the pe- riod of suckling, do not suffer from scrofula. At that time the child is carefully clothed } it is near the persons of the mo- ther or nurse, and participates, in a measure, in the warmth