ON THE NATURE AND SEAT OF DISEASES. 25 conditions of the part are of a more considerable kind, and leave behind them visible appearances after dissolution. 1 can by no means agree in opinion with those who regard functional diseases as affections of the vital properties, without any reference to the state of the organs. How can we suppose that the function of a part can be altered, when the organ re- mains in the healthy state ? What would yod think if you were told by a watchmaker that a watch was perfect in all its parts, but that its movement was affected ? But if he should tell you, “ I have looked over the watch very carefully; it does not go well; there must be something wrong, but 1 can- not discover where,” then he would speak very rationally, and that is the situation medical men find themselves in, in cases of functional disease; they see irregularity, but do not dis- cover what it depends on. In such a case they should conclude that the art is imperfect, or their own knowledge deficient; not that functions can be impaired while the organs are perfect. Now this is not a point of mere speculative importance, but one of considerable practical use; for those who believe in vital, or functional disease, direct their means of treatment according to their views. Their object is to remedy the imper- fection of those functions, to excite vital properties which appear defective in energy, and to rouse those parts to activity which seem to be dormant. Hence a treatment is instituted ■which is calculated to aggravate disease rather than to benefit the patient. Persons who entertain views of this kind, seeing a paralytic affection, observe the loss of power only. If a patient is unable to move the limbs of one side, they say the nervous power is defective, and it is necesssry to rouse it. Thus they treat the paralytic limbs by stimulants of all kinds, and they administer general stimuli. More accurate pathological research proves, in these cases, that disease exists in the head, and that it consists, perhaps, in increased determination of blood, in effusion of blood or serum, or in other changes that would be aggravated by this stimulative treatment. We have examples of a similar kind of erroneous treatment, proceeding on this erroneous theory, in affections of the eyes. When the nervous structure of the eye is affected, as those parts are s<^ deeply seated as not to come under observation externally, we' cannot actually see them, but know that the retina, or optic nerve, is diseased. The patient’s sight is dim; he says it is weak, and that it wants to be strengthened. And medical men take up the same notion as the patient. They fancy that the powers of the nerve want exciting, and that it is necessary to use means to strengthen the vital properties of the patient.