194 UNION BY ADHESION. to each other. Then vessels form in the lymph which is thus effused and organises it; so that a firm union is established between the two sides. This is the nature of the process ; the effusion of coagulable lymph there, the formation of vessels in that nidus. Thus is accomplished organic union between parts that have been recently divided. Now you will understand this union is not accomplished by the effusion of blood; and, in this respect it is necessary for me to point out to you a mistake of Mr. Hunter, who speaks of union by the first intention, as if it took place by the effusion of blood, and the subsequent or- ganisation of that blood. It i6 true, when blood is effused in a wound, that it will mechanically agglutinate, and hold toge- ther the sides of the wound, so that, for a time, it forms a medium for holdiug the sides together. But the blood effused does not become organised, nor have we, hitherto, any evi- dence whatever for believing that blood effused does become organised in the way Mr. Hunter has represented. In fact, in reference to this particular subject of the union of wounds by adhesiou, the presence of blood is to be regarded rather in the light of an extraneous substance; and it is our object, before we bring the edges of the wound together, to cleanse it from all coagula ; the presence of coagula will prevent the healing of the wound—will render it incomplete. It happens, occasion- ally, that blood is effused into some of the circumscribed cavi- ties of the body; that it is effused in the sac of aneurisms; that it is effused in bruises of internal parts—but we do not find that that blood becomes organised; on the contrary, in many cases it acts as an irritant, and excites inflammation and suppuration ; that is, those processes which are • necessary for getting rid of extraneous substances. The coagulable lymph is effused from the capillaries of the wound. It is to be re- garded as a secretion. It is to be regarded in the same light as the effusion of coagulable lymph, by the capillaries of a part under inflammation. This effusion of lymph does not take place from the vessels that are divided in the wound. So far as the mere effusion of lymph goes, the process does not seem to be essentially distinct from several others that I have already had occasion to describe to you. In fact, we may say, in re- ference to the deposition of this particular substance, that the process is essentially the same under five circumstances which I have already mentioned. In the first place, in the effusion of coagulable lymph, for the purpose of uniting wounds by adhesion ; secondly, as the commencement of that process by which a breach is to be repaired, when union, by the first in- tention, has not taken place, when granulation and cicatrisa- tion are to repair the wound which has been called union by