315 SARSAPARILLA. the roots of sarsaparilla only, or of compound decoction. In the latter form, which is perhaps the most frequently adminis- tered, the sarsaparilla is combined with some other vegetable remedies; that is, guaiacum, sassafras, and mezereon. This compound decoction of sarsaparilla is nearly similar to the “ Lisbon diet drink”—decoctum lusitanicum. Now, the most opposite opinions have been entertained in the profession respecting the remedial properties of sarsaparilla. Cullen, in his “ Materia Medica,” seems to doubt whether he should give this remedy a place at all in his system:—“If I were to consult my own experience alone, (says he,) I should not give this root a place in the Materia Medica; for I have tried it in every shape, and never found it an efficacious medi- cine in syphilis, or any other disease.” But other persons, and those of great experience, place great confidence in the virtues of sarsaparilla, and administer it very frequently, considering it as a remedy of the greatest efficacy in various forms of syphilis and other diseases. It appears to me, in the first place, that we cannot ascribe to sarsaparilla the same anti-syphilitic property—that is, the same power of arresting or curing the venereal disease, that experi- ence warrants us in reposing in mercury. If we take a decided form of syphilitic disease, we do not often see that the employ- ment of sarsaparilla alone is capable of putting a stop to the disease. The circumstances under which sarsaparilla seems to be of use are particularly where the constitution is enfeebled, either by the long continuance and the repeated attacks of the disease in various textures of the body, or by the repeated courses of mercury that are employed (and sometimes we may say, perhaps injudiciously employed,) for them:—that is, in short, where the general powers of the system are considerably enfeebled—where there is loss of flesh and loss of strength ; it is in these cases that sarsaparilla is of particular efficacy, al- though we also give it in certain forms of the disease which are of a painful and intractable kind, aud where we do not deem it tit to use mercury. Now you will naturally make the inquiry, how sarsaparilla acts—what is the mode in which it exerts an influence upon the system, and what are the properties in it which are capable of producing these beneficial effects ? And I must own that it is very difficult to answer that question. A healthy person may take two or three pints of the compound decoction of sarsa- paiilla, and experience no effect from it whatever—it seems to exert no sensible influence on the animal economy. We do, however, see that patients, under circumstances of alarming indisposition, recover, and that speedily, under the exhibition