36S TREATMENT OF GONORRHCEA. cold to the part. Sometimes they fancy they derive more benefit from the application of warmth, from fomentations, or steeping the entire penis in warm water. An attempt has been made to cut short the disease in the ure- thra by means of local applications to the inflamed membrane, under the form of injection, and, in fact, this kind of applica- tion makes a considerable figure in the treatment of clap. In- jections are divided into three or four classes the emollient injection, the sedative injection, the stimulating injection, and the astringent injection. Various mucilaginous and narcotic substances have been recommended under the idea of soothing and removing the pain ; that is, supposing them to act as emol- lients or sedatives. I believe we can do no good in this way by injection, and that so far as pain goes, we shall not benefit the patient by injecting into the urethra either an emollient or a sedative. With respect to a stimulant injection, 1 do not ap- prehend that any one could think an inflamed urethra could be benefited by such an application. So that we come at last to the class of astringents. It has been proposed, aud the sug- gestion has been extensively acted upon, to insert pretty strong solutions of astringent substances into the urethra in the early stage of the affection, with a view of stopping the discharge; that is, cutting short the disease in this way. A saturated solu- tion of the nitrate of silver, ten grains to the ounce (which is pretty strong when used in this way), is thrown into the ure- thra ; it is said this will put a stop to the discharge if you apply it at a very early period. I may observe, with respect to these astringents, that you do not want to apply them to the urethra further than to the extent to which the inflammation goes 3 and as that, in ordinary cases, does not go beyond the distance Mr. Hunter has mentioned, of course you prevent, by pressing the penis with the finger and thumb, the introduction of the injec- tion further than you wish it to go. I have not myself had any experience in the practice of throwing in strong injections. I can only say it has been practised in the army, and the gentle- men by whom it has been employed represent it to be safe and advantageous. More commonly we use rnjections, if we use them at all, for the purpose of removing the symptoms after adopting the antiphlogistic means I have described in a milder form. We employ the sulphate of zinc, sulphate of copper, the oxymuriate of mercury, or the nitrate of silver; of the three former, two or three grains to an ounce of distilled water, and of the latter not more than one grain to the ounce. These should be injected in the way I have mentioned, about three times a day. In some cases injection of this kind puts a stop to the discharge 3 in other instances it seems to augment it. The de-