INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. 12 mental to the public, and disgraceful to our profession. In those serious cases, in which external injury or disease is con- nected with more or less general symptoms, as in compound fracture, attended with fever; in injuries of the head, with nervous symptoms and fever: in erysipelas, supervening in local injury or disease; in strangulated hernia, in retention of urine, it is the obvious interest of the patient to be under the care of men who understand the case in all its bearings. It matters not to him whether the person thus capable of render- ing him service belongs to this college or to that, or even if he should belong to no college at all. The surgeon who under- stands only the local, and the physician who knows only the general, treatment of such cases, are, each of them, only half informed : and the two together deserve much less reliance than one who is conversant with the whole. The confidence which ignorant persons are inclined to repose tinder such circumstances, in what they call a combination of talent, is quite fallacious, if the combinatiou consist of a surgeon ignorant of the general, and a physician who knows nothing of the local, treatment. In many of these serious cases, the mere local means are of little importance, while the fate of the patient depends on the general treatment; so that a surgeon, ignorant of the latter, is incompetent to the duties of his pro- fession. Let me take this opportunity of observing to you, gentlemen, that the performance of operations is often the least important part of the surgeon’s duty, even in cases requiring them. To judge whether a complaint is curable by other means ; to per- ceive when an operation is advisable, and to determine when to becomes necessary; to prepare the patient for it, and to manage the case well, after the operation has been performed, are points of equal, and often superior, importance. I do not mean to speak lightly of operations ; it is quite necessary that you should carefully study this branch of surgery, and prepare yourselves for operating on the living by' cutting the dead. But you must not attach the first importance to a description of duty which you will very seldom be called upon to execute. It is a great mistake to suppose that any surgeon is principally employed in operating. It is the boast of modern surgery to have greatly diminished the number of operations. I should think that there are not so many performed in this hospital, as there were twenty-five years ago, by one-half or two-thirds. The difference has arisen from improved knowledge of the nature and treatment of disease, acquired by the anatomical, patho- logical, and practical researches of surgeons. Thus, whatever view we may take of the subject, the same conclusion forces