VENEREAL DISEASE; 310 hard and uncomfortable. Fresh patches of the skin become inflamed, and go through the same process. Thus, frequently this peculiar inflammation of the skin—this eczema, or what some call erythema mercuriale, extends over the whole surface of the body. The affection is a painful one, for it is attended with considerable inflammation of the skin ; and the dry crusts which are formed on the surface—the exudation of matter— and the stiff state of the linen produced by this discharge, which is usually of a fattid odour, renders the patient subject to irritation over the whole surface of the body. Now this goes through a certain course; it gradually subsides, and comes to an end, but it is productive of very great pain and distress, and even of high constitutional irritation, during its continu- ance. Its occurrence seems owing to some peculiarity in the constitution of the individual, for it will take place without a large quantity of mercury having been employed ; it will take place either under the use of the remedy by friction, or by its use internally. Sometimes it takes place on the part where the mercury has been tubbed in, and thence extends over the sur- face of the body ; but it will be equally produced by its inter- nal employment even in moderate doses. When a person is subject to it, it becomes really so serious as to preclude the use of the remedy, unless it be imperiously required. No person would think of using mercury in an individual who had been the subject of erythema mercuriale, except under the most urgent circumstances. This affection admits of little more than palliative treatment. Soothing and mild local applications should be employed. The surface may be washed, and gently cleaned by means of emol- lient, or slightly mucilaginous, fluids; milk and water, the de- coction of linseed, and thin gruel. The parts, which are parti- cularly sore and inflamed, may be covered with a bread-and- water poultice. Mild, unctuous applications may be employed, after the inflammatory process has gone off, to detach the crusts that are formed on the body. Aperient medicines, of course, should be given; slight salines, with antimony, mild sudorific remedies, and the complaint, under such treatment, will slowly decline. Poisonous Effects of Mercury on the System.—Mercury fre- quently seems to act as a kind of poison on the system. It will produce a quickness and feeble state of the pulse, it will cause loss of flesh, loss of appetite, sallowness of countenance, rest- lessness at night—in fact, a state a good deal like what we should call hectic fever. Sometimes it goes further than this, and has a peculiar influence in disturbing the action of the heart and respiratory organs. It causes a sense of oppression