314 VENEREAL DISEASE; the mercury the moment the cicatrisation is complete? or should you try to secure the patient from the occurrence of se- condary symptoms, by proceeding-with the employment of the remedy after that? These are important questions, and we have not, perhaps, the means of answering them satisfactorily. With respect to the first, however, it is certainly not safe to dis- continue the use of the mercury before the sore is cicatrised all over. Then, secondly, is any good produced by continuing the use of the mercury after the cicatrisation is complete, with a view of preventing a return of the symptoms ? This is a very important question, and if you refer to the best writers on the subject,you will find but very little to assist you. Mr. Hunter’s observations on this point are very confused and contradictory; sometimes, he says, you may discontinue the use of the remedy as soon as the local symptoms have disappeared; in other parts, he says, he thinks the further use of mercury will “ pro- tect the constitution,” to use his own phrase : you will, in fact, get no clear evidence from him. General experience, however, has led to a belief that perseverance in the use of mercury for some time, say a week, ten days, or a fortnight after cicatrisa- tion, has a beneficial effect in protecting the constitution ; so that persons, when they have used mercury to the extent I have mentioned, are not in the habit of suddenly discontinuing it, but of carrying it on for a short time after the apparent removal of the disease, under a belief that its continuance tends to prevent the recurrence of further evil. LECTURE XXV. Treatment of Venereal Disease continued— Sarsaparilla, §c.—Chancre; its l arieties Herpes Preputii; other Affections of the Prepuce—Treatment of Chancre. Employment of Sarsaparilla—Other remedies, besides mer- cury, are supposed to possess anti-syphilitic properties—powers of arresting and of curing the venereal disease. Perhaps the foremost among them is sarsaparilla—the root of sarsaparilla; and this remedy is administered in the forms of powder, ex- tract, and simple decoctiou ; that is, of decoction, consisting of