ON ULCERATION. 169 . lature of the inflammation which precedes it, that is, whether : t is common or specific, and on differences in the constitution tnd state of health of the individual who is affected. All cextures of the body appear to be susceptible of ulceration. We ee this exemplified, when mortification has attacked an entire :imb, and when the separation takes place by a natural process. ■Juppose, for instance, that the foot and lower part of the leg >vere mortified, and that the mortification stop in the middle of ..be leg, you will see that the skin, the cellular membrane, the .ascia, the muscles, and tendons—blood-vessels, nerves, and ■veu, lastly, the bone itself, are all penetrated by the process of ilceration. A groove commences on the external surface, it extends through all the soft parts, one after the other, and, unally, separates the bone itself. Thus you will have a kind fif amputation performed by it, the ulcerative process extending rom the skin, first, to all the soft parts ; and, finally, through he bone ; so that you see the whole of the tissues that enter nto the construction of a limb, at all events are susceptible of ais process of ulceration, or ulcerative absorption. But all jarts of the body are not equally liable to it. The skin is the •lost prone to ulceration; thus the greater part of the ulcers, Vhich we have an opportunity of seeing, are seated on the ex- ternal surface of the body. Mucous membrane, perhaps, omes next in order, then the cellular tissue, the bones ; and the .-Tticular cartilages, although, from the great compactness of aeir texture, you would suppose they would not be so liable to lceration, are very frequently affected by it. Fasciae, tendons, ;.nd ligaments, are perhaps the textures which are the least object to ulceration ; and hence it is that they will resist, for time, the progress of absorption to the surface of the body, .'hen abscesses form under them. We are best acquainted with the phenomena of ulcerations ss they take place in the skin, because there all the circum- stances in the process are obvious to our senses. The remarks, oen, which I shall have to make to you respecting the history of dceration, as it occurs in the skin, will be applicable, with some lodifications, to the same process as it occurs in other textures f the body. I have already mentioned to you that ulceration > t preceded by inflammation of the part. We find that a state f inflammation, and, generally, considerable pain, precede the rrmation of an ulcer in any part of the skin. The surface be- omcs red; it becomes preternaturally hot; it becomes more r less swelled, and then we find that it begins to ulcerate at ome one point or other. We observe that the cuticle becomes oo6ened, or perhaps it may be elevated into a small vesicle in ome part. The cuticle thus loosened and detached assumes a