91 BLEEDING. | more considerably in the middle, than under the natural state, -so that the superior surface of the coagulum is of a concave j figure; that is, in common language, it is cupped. I say this J is the appearance of blood when drawn from the vein of a person labouring under inflammation, and you will naturally inquire, whether it is not also the colour of blood drawn from an artery under similar circumstances ? Now, the truth is, that the draw- - ing of blood from an artery is by no means so common as venesection, and thus it is rather difficult to determine, whe- ther the arterial blood presents the particular changes which we call the buffed and cupped state. 1 do not know that I myself have ever had an opportunity of ascertaining the fact; but my friend, Dr. Tweedie, has given me a statement of two instances in which he has found the blood drawn from arteries to present ; the same buffed and cupped appearances, which are seen in ; that which is taken from veins. I will just read to you the ; note that he has made of these cases. He says, “ When I was j house-surgeon at the Infirmary in Edinburgh, I was directed to bleed a patient under the care of Dr. Hamilton, afflicted with :hxmatemesis (vomiting of blood) : the general febrile symp- toms were very severe. I attempted to take blood from the ■veins of the arm; but, from their small size, I could not obtain the quantity ordered. I then opened the jugular vein, but in .consequence of the struggles of the patient, the orifice closed. I next opened the temporal artery, from which the blood came in a full stream. The blood soon coagulated, and, to my sur- prise, I found that it presented a cupped appearance. I shewed the blood to my friend Dr. Gordon, who told me that he had searched every where for such a specimen, and that he had written to the surgeons of the large hospitals in London to know if they had observed such an occurrence, and their an- swer was in the negative. It is nowin his museum. I have since had an opportunity of observing the same thing in a patient of mine in the Fever Hospital, who was bled in con- sequence of iuflammation of the brain under fever. This spe- cimen has since been sent to Mr. Grainger, who has alluded to it in his work on General Anatomy.” When we speak of blood exhibiting the inflammatory cha- racters, we allude to the two appearances I have now men- tioned ; to this buffy colour of the surface of the coagulum", and to the concavity, or cupped appearance of it. In local bleeding, the blood is drawn from the capillary ves- sels. It is drawn from a great number of openings in the mi- nute vessels of a part. Blood is in this way taken by cupping, or by the application of leeches ; by scarifications, or by punc- tures. Now cupping seems to form a kind of intermediate