TREATMENT OF GONORRIICEA. 3G9 creased discharges from the injection of astringents have in- duced a supposition that they give rise to strictures of the ure- thra, and hence many practitioners never employ them at all. I fancy, generally speaking, the treatment, in London, by in- jection, is not much adopted. So much for what we should call the rational treatment. We come, then, to the empirical; and here we do find, that certain remedies exert a certain influence over the complaint, although they are not such in their nature as, a priori, we should have expected to have had such an effect. One of these is a remedy of rather a recent introduction, but which, from the experience of its utility, is very generally employed ; I mean the cubeb pepper, also called Java pepper—cubebs, a pepper brought from Java. This given at the commencement of the complaint, will very frequently bring it to an end in a few days; and in other cases when it will not arrest the discharge, it will stop the pain. For this purpose you should give not less than two drachms of the pepper three times, or even four times a day. The longer the complaint has existed before you use the remedy, the less likely are you to put a stop to it by the employment of the pepper. Its benefits are found chiefly when it is employed in the early stage of the disease, and the exist- ence of considerable inflammatory action does not offer an objection to its use. Another remedy is the balsamum copaiba, which you give in the dose of from half a drachm to a drachm three times a day, either giving it simply by dropping it on moist sugar, and letting the patient swallow it in that way, or by dropping it in water, and letting him take it as he would castor oil, or giving it in some mucilaginous or emollient sub- stance. After the employment of antiphlogistic means in a suitable way, the administration of the copaiba has a very marked effect in bringing the complaint to an end. The copaiba is much the most commonly-employed medicine in that chronic state of the affection which constitutes gleet. I have mentioned to you, that the inflammation of the mu- cous membrane runs through a certain course, and comes to a natural end, without entailing any future ill consequences on the patient. There are, however, some instances in which we have reason to suppose, that secondary symptoms have fol- lowed from gonorrhoea; but these instances are so few, that many individuals who perhaps have never seen a case of the kind, will hardly believe the possibility of its existence ; but those who have had much experience in gonorrhoea, recognise the possibility of secondary symptoms from it. This is the case with Mr. Carmichael; he says, that gonorrhoea is sometimes followed by eruptions on the skin, pains of the joints and limbs.