135 TREATMENT OF ABSCESS. making an opening with a cutting instrument, very commouly a broad lancet has been used, called an abscess lancet, which however, in many respects, is not a very convenient instrument. I think you will find the best instrument is a large, strong, straight, double-edged bistoury, with a lancet point. It pene- trates very easily in consequence of its sharp point and size; and when you have carried it into the abscess, you can easily extend the opening to any size you desire With this instru- ment you make an opening, if you simply puncture the abscess, equal in size, to the breadth of the. blade; or, if you wish to make it larger, after you have carried the blade in, you extend the aperture with a slight motion of the hand, as far as you wish. If the skin has become very thin, you will generally find it necessary to make a short incision, in order to let the matter out, otherwise the opening will heal up and prevent its its escape. It ir not necessary to make a large cut, as some gentlemen do ; and still less is it proper to introduce the finger into the cavity of the abscess. I remember seeing a surgeon make an opening, and introduce his finger and turn it round several times, inflicting great torture on the patient, for the purpose of removing the core. In fact, the mere discharging of the matter, by the introduction of a knife, is apt to produce au irritation of the part; and if, in addition to this, you use any violence not necessary for the purpose, you of course augment that increased irritation. For this reason it is found necessary merely to make a puncture or incision, and to let the matter drain out of itself. It is by no means necessary to squeeze the part, in order to get out all the matter the abscess contains. You are not to consider it as a matter of importance, completely to empty the bag. Nature does not; she makes an opening, and a small part flows out; that heals, she repeats the operation, and more of it flows out. The mode she adopts, is to get it out by gradual discharges. If the opening made is to be attended by a considerable irritation, through squeezing it, there is not only no advantage, but obviously a good deal of disadvantage produced by the operation. After making the puncture or incision, let the matter slowly run out, cover the part with fomentations, or something of that nature, soft and moist, for half an hour, so that the matter may be more abun- dantly discharged, by the gradual oozing from the sides of the ab- scess, and then cover the part over with a poultice, till it heals. Now it becomes of considerable importance to determine what are the cases in which an abscess may be left to its natural cure, and what are those in which it is desirable to make an artificial opening for the discharge of the matter. When the collection is near the surface of the body, and when it is seated