ON CICATRISATION. 175 .Tanulations arc produced in the cellular tissue with great . ppidity, and that they rise above the surface of the wound, iud, in fact, that it is with great difficulty we can keep down, :.nd repress them to the limits in which we wish them to be restrained; so that I think it probable, that the notion which vas first broached by Bichat, that granulation is a property of ..he cellular tissue, is a correct one. When the granulations ise in this abundant and luxuriant way above the surface of ■he sore, it constitutes what persons in common life call proud desk. Cicatrisation.—When the chasm of the ulceration is com- pletely filled up by these granulating processes, then another orocess commences, by which the surface is to be skinned over .and repaired. The granulations, first, fill up the cavity of the ilcer to a level with the surrounding sound parts; and we •dien find a thin smooth pellicle, extending over the granu- lations from the edge of the sound surface; and when this oellicle has extended over the whole of the granulations, the secretion of pus in that part ceases. At first we observe just a Uhin margin of this kind on the very border or edge of the sore. 'You find the peilicle extending from the edge of the surround- ing sound skin, not commencing at any other part of the sore, and it forms just a thin rim round the margin of the ulcer. ■This pellicle gradually extends from the edge to the centre of the sore, and ultimately it covers the whole of it. The secretion of pus is then entirely stopped; and, in fact, it is said to be healed. IThe process by which this pellicle extends, is called the process of cicatrisation ; and the surface that is left in this way is dis- 1 tinguished by its smoothness and red colour, by a sort of com- tpactness which distinguishes it from the natural skin, and by the non-appearance of those lines which belong to skin under other circumstances. That surface is called a cicatrix, which is equivalent to the common expression of scar. The cicatrix, or scar, when it is first formed, is redder, and apparently more vascular, than the surrounding skin. It is very thin and deli- cate, so that it is easily broken ; gives way easily under force, and breaks or bleeds. But, in process of time, this redness disappears, and, in fact, perhaps the cicatrix becomes rather ; paler than the natural skin, and that thinness which renders it ■so liable to be broken, becomes changed into rather a hard substance, and difficult to be broken ; so that, ultimately, the ; cicatrix is very different in appearance to what it is immedi- ately after the skinning of the part is completed. During the period that the extension of the pellicle is goiug on, the granu- lations undergo absorption ; and the consequence of this is, that the surrounding skin is elongated, and drawn towards the