ON MORTIFICATION. 1G3 than eight-and-fortv hours of the time that I saw him. I saw him on the Saturday evening, and he had seen him on the Thursday, so that, within that short time, this traumatic gan- grene (if it was such, and I cannot consider the case in any other light thau I have mentioned,) occurred from such a cause. It is obvious, that if it occurred from so slight a circumstance, it would be of no use at all to amputate such a limb. In the feeble state into which he was reduced, the mere operation would have been sufficient to extinguish life; in fact, that gentleman died in four-and-twenty hours after I saw him. Now, a good many years ago, an Irishman was brought into this hospital, who had fallen from a scaffolding three stories high. He did not fall directly from the third story to the ground, but he fell from the third to the second, from the se- cond to the first, and from the first, I believe, to the ground ; however he was very seriously hurt. He was not under my care, for I was not then surgeon here. I came to the hospital soon afterwards, and I was requested to see this patient in about three days, I think, after he was brought in. On the preceding night, the dresser, under whose care he was, had left him well, for he had seen him just as he was going away at night. He had then no complaint. In the morning he told the nurse that he had been in a dreadful state of pain all the night; she went to the dresser and told him of it, and he asked me to see him. I went, and found the wrist and fore-arm up to the elbow, enveloped in a bandage, which, although perhaps not too tight at the time of application, was exceedingly tight then. On feeling the hand below it, I found it was cold and dead. On taking off the bandage, the arm was completely livid and dead also. The upper arm, or at least the lower part of it, was perhaps not exactly in a state of mortification, but approaching to it, with those appearances reaching up to the shoulder. This had all come on within from ten to twelve hours. Now here was a stout young Irishman, with a good constitution; and I thought him, therefore, a good subject to try to save by operating upon ; and although I cannot say that I considered the integuments were entirely free from colour, yet I considered it right to give him the chance, and I removed the arm at the shoulder joint. The part where I made the flap, in performing the operation, was filled with a sort of serous fluid. This case, however, succeeded perfectly, and the man recovered. I have seen one or two other cases in which the operation has been performed in traumatic gangrene, before the mortification had stopped, and manifestly before the line of demarcation had taken place between the dead and the living parts. Several such cases are recorded by Larrey in his w Memoirs of Military M 2