284 RHEUMATISM. ance and state of the individual, I recommended him to use belladonna. At last I operated on him by his own desire, rather than agreeably to my own wishes. The gouty dispo- sition was so great in this individual, that I thought an opera- tion would undoubtedly bring on a fresh attack. He had lived for several weeks very temperately before I performed the operation; I had seen him repeatedly, and he had taken Plummer’s pill, and other medicines, and yet he had the strongest pulse I ever felt. I detached the capsule of the lens, and performed the operation, and, fortunately, no inflammation followed, yet the state of the pulse induced me to bleed him five times afterwards. In about two months the effect of the operation was accomplished, and he had got perfect vision. I remember, on asking him, some considerable time afterwards, about the state of his fingers, that he said, of late years, he had not been troubled with any gout, for he had got a remedy that he used himself, without going to any doctor, and that was colchicum. Whenever he found any thing like gout making its appearance, he took a full dose of the colchicum, and that prevented an attack. Rheumatism—In rheumatism we find a state of the consti- tution in some measure analogous to that which occurs in gouty persons, although not altogether similar to it. The occurrence of a rheumatic attack is very commonly preceded by symptoms of disposition, and a very feverish state of the system frequently occurs before the joint swells. The swelling of the joint is accompanied too, in those cases, with a con- siderable febrile disturbance of the system, which is to be regarded simply as a sympathetic effect of the local disease, and the local disease and febrile disturbance are very frequent attendants on each other. Sometimes the local disease is sus- pended, and the feverish symptoms go on. That there is a general morbid affection of the system in this case is very clear. If you bleed a person while in the state which immediately precedes the development of rheumatic affection, or in the early stage of it, you will find that the blood exhibits in- flammatory characters; you have evidence, therefore, that the state of the blood is certainly changed ; there is a some- thing wrong in the system that shows itself in the state of the blood. Treatment of Rheumatism—The treatment here, then, will consist, chiefly, in that which is applicable to gout; that is, you must attempt to relieve that state of the system from which the rheumatic attack is derived, and this is accomplished more by general means than by any local treatment of the in- flamed joint. A moderate loss of blood in these cases is ad-