363 GONORRHCEA. not attended with further effects than those which immediately occur in the parts concerned. These two diseases seem to me to be totally contrary to each other; and the natural influence in my mind, contemplating them in this way, is, that they must owe their origin to causes essentially different. Those persons who believe that syphilis first arose about the time of the discovery of America, or of the invasion of Naples, are of opinion that gonorrhoea existed before that time;—that that was an old disease ; and we should naturally suppose that the persons who hold that opinion, must think gonorrhoea de- pends on a poison different to that of syphilis ; for ifgonorrhcea existed previously to those periods, how did it happen, sup- posing the poison to be the same that produces syphilis, that syphilis did not also exist as Jong as gonorrhoea? The belief of the identity of the poisons seems to me quite incompatible with the belief that gonorrhoea is an ancient infection, and that syphilis is one of recent date. However, it does happen that persons who believe in the recent date of syphilis, are still of opinion that the poison, producing the two diseases, are identi- cal; and this was the case with Mr. Hunter. He is a great advocate for the identity of the poisons that produce gonorrhoea and syphilis. In fact, he says distinctly, that the two poisons are the same, and that the two different effects arise merely from the difference in the textures of the parts to which the poi- son may be applied ; that is, if this poison be applied to a mu- cous surface, such as the urethra of the male, or the vagina of the female, it produces gonorrhoea ; if it be applied to surfaces covered by cuticle, then it produces syphilis—primary syphilitic sores. Now if these were the only differences in the two cases, it appears to me that, in the first place, we should expect to find females, where affected with disease of this kind, almost inva- riably labouring under gonorrhoea, and very seldom under sy- philis, because the poison is applied in them to the surface of the vagina; it may also be applied to some of the external parts of the organs of generation, but not necessarily so. Necessarily it is applied to the internal surface of the vagina, and we ought, therefore, necessarily to have gonorrhoea almost always pro- duced in the female. We do not, however, find that gonorrhoea exists in a greater proportion in females than syphilis. Then, on the other hand, we should expect to find that syphilis would be found to exist much oftener in the male than gonorrhoea, for the poison is applied in the male to the surface of the penis and the glans penis, and it seems difficult to account for the introduction of the poison into the male urethra, yet we find that gonorrhoea exists to a great extent in the male sex. If, in the two cases, the poisons be the same, we should expect to find