INFLAMMATION. 4G of disease. If, however, we come to examine the temperature of the part by the thermometer, we do not find there is such an increase of heat as the sensation afforded to the patient would lead us to expect. We do not find the temperature of the in- flamed part to ascend beyond the natural temperature of the blood, and that has been ascertained to be from 98° to 100° by Fahrenheit’s thermometer. This is a point which has been particularly investigated by Mr. Hunter. He excited inflam- mation in the cavity of the chest, in the vagina and rectum of animals; and he found that the temperature of those parts never rose under the intensity of any inflammation he could excite beyond the natural temperature of the blood. If you place a blister on the skin of the chest, and afterwards examine the temperature of the part from which the cuticle has been removed, you will find the thermometer will probable rise about two degrees beyond the temperature of the surrounding skin. If you make the same experiment on the extremeties, you will find that the difference of temperature will probably be four, five, or six degrees, because the temperature of the extremeties is naturally lower than that of the parts near to the centre of the circulation, and the application of the blister there raises the temperature more, so that it may bring it as near to the natural heat of the blood. In one instance, when Mr. Hunter was operating in a case of hydrocele, after he had made an incision through the tunica vaginalis, he introduced the bulb of a thermometer, and found the temperature to be 92°: in the following day he ascertained it had risen to 93|°, which was a very considerable advance, but yet that did not go beyond the natural temperature of the blood in the in- dividual. The pain in the part is, in the first instance, slight, and gradually increases. It is augmented on pressure, and in- creased by any attempts to use the part. At first the patient experiences something of a dull aching pain; but as the in- flammation proceeds, that feeling assumes a peculiar character, and is attended with a throbbing or pulsatory sensation. The patient seems to perceive an increased exertion in the arte- ries. This is not merely a circumstance adverted to by the sensation of the patient; for if we place our ringers on the arteries we find there is a very considerable augmentation in the force of the pulsation in the neighbourhood of the diseased part. In the case of the hand, the pulse at the wrist, on the inflamed side, is much fuller,stronger,and harder,than the pulse in the opposite wrist. In fact, if the inflammation be con- siderable, you will find there is a very marked difference in the pulse of the two limbs. This throbbing extends along the