VENEREAL DISEASE; 358 diately by sexual intercourse, children at two or three different births have been affected with it. There are two or three instances of this kind related by Mr. Hey, in the paper that I have just alluded to. He mentions, that in the latter end of the year 1770 and the beginning of 1771, a blind woman, who gained her living by drawing the breasts of women during their confinement, became affected with ulcers at the angles of the lips, which were judged to be venereal. He found that she had drawn the breasts of a woman who was supposed to be labouring under the venereal disease. He treated these ulcers as syphilis, and they healed under that treatment. He observes, that several women whose breasts bad been drawn by this woman became affected with syphilitic dis- ease. He mentions one case in particular. Mrs. B. had her breasts drawn twice by this woman, upon the death of her se- cond child, which died of the small-pox, and within three or four weeks afterwards perceived a swelling of the axillary glands, and complained of soreness in her throat. The swelling in the axilla was, no doubt, the effect produced by this blind woman drawing her breasts. The gentleman who saw the sore throat, deeming it to be venereal, exhibited mercury, and it got well. During the treatment she became pregnant, but conti- nued the use of the mercury during her pregnancy; and, at the end of seven months, she miscarried of a dead child. She be- came pregnant again in 1772, continued to enjoy good health, and was delivered of a child, apparently healthy, in February, 1773, which she herself suckled. When the child was about six weeks old, an eruption, which Mr. Hey judged to be syphi- litic, appeared upon its legs and arms. He put both the mother and child upon a mercurial course, giving the former small doses of hydrar. submurias, and the latter hydrar c. creta. By that treatment, the child was in a short time freed from the eruption, but continued to take the medicine till the beginning of August. In October following, two or three small ulcers appeared on the outside of the labia pudendi of the child, and on that account the mercurial course was resumed, with the addition of an occasional dose of hydrar. submurias. The ul- cers were soon healed, but in May 1774, the nostrils became sore, and the integuments of the nose were also tender; at the same time the child grew hoarse. The mercurial course was repeated, and continued for two months. The child also took the medicines during part of the months of September and October; after which time there was no recurrence of disease. In June 1775, this same woman bore another child, which was apparently healthy at its birth, and continued to be so for a few weeks. Blotches of a copper-colour then came out upon