INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. 15 The wards of an hospital are the best school of medicine; and clinical study, under the guidance of a competent teacher, is the best mode of learning. You will immediately inquire whether it is not necessary to hear lectures and read books before you begin to see patients. 1 advise you to resort as early as possible to nature—to that source from which the great masters of our art have derived their information ; from which lecturers and authors must derive their knowledge. In learn- ing anatomy, you have the facts demonstrated to you by the teacher, and you examine and explore them for yourselves by dissection. In the same way, demonstration of the phenomena of disease on the patient by the teacher, and the actual observa- tion of them by the learner, are the only means by which real knowledge of the subject can be acquired. The facts thus presented to the senses make a stronger impression than any description, even by the ablest lecturer or writer ; while the information which a persou thus acquires for himself from nature, can always be depended on, and is never forgotten. Between him who has only read or heard, and one who has seen, there is the same difference, in poiut of knowledge, as between a person who has merely perused the description of foreign . countries, and another who has actually visited them. To secure these advantages to their full extent, instruction should be strictly clinical; that is, the symptoms of disease, and the changes it produces, should be actually pointed out and ex- plained on the patient; their origin, progress, and connexion, ; should be illustrated, and the indications and modes of treat- ment should be deduced from the facts thus immediately ob- served. This kind of cliuical instruction can only be given at the time of the visit. I have always endeavoured to explain diseases in this manner to the pupils of the hospital, and 1 shall continue to illustrate clinically in the wards the general doc- trines which I deliver in this theatre. Cliuical lectures delivered, as they usually are, without the presence of the patient, and to an audience, many of whom have not seen the cases, may be very useful ; and thegentlemen who attended this school last winter, know that Mr. Earle’s cliuical discourses were replete with valuable information. Mr. Earle, however, knows well that they do not supersede the necessity of clinical instruction in the wards ; and he, accord- ingiy, pays particular attention to the latter point. After beginning to observe diseases for yourselves, you may have recourse, with advantage, to lectures and books, which may be of great use in teaching you how and what to observe ; in pointing out what might escape observation; in elucidating what may he obscure and perplexing; in rectifying erroneous