362 GONORRHCEA. membrane. In order to give a more significant name to it, some French writers have called it blenorrhrea, which merely means exeessive flow of the mucous fluid. However, the term gonorrhoea is one so generally received, and the meaning of it is so well known, that I believe we need not attempt to change it for any other. I had occasion to speak to you, in describing syphilis, of what is called the poison, or virus, which produces that dis- ease; so do we also recognise the existence of a poison, or virus, in the production of gonorrhoea. A question has arisen, whether these two diseases, syphilis and gonorrhoea, are produced by one and the same poison, or whether they owe their origin to different poisons. I mentioned to you, that we knew nothing about the venereal virus, or poi- son, considered in the abstract, and I may now also observe, that we know as little about that which causes gouorrhoea, that is, we do not know at all what is the particular ingredient com- posing it, the particular nature of the gonorrhoeal discharge, or of the secretion from a syphilitic sore that is capable of pro- ducing those diseases in another person, when applied to cer- tain parts. We only know, that a fluid, called gonorrhoeal discharge, and that a certain secretion from syphilitic sores, will produce these affections. We are not acquainted, there- fore, with the poisons in the abstract; we only know of the poisonous or infectious secretions, as they are made evident in those cases. The question, then, respecting the identity or the diversity of the two poisons, seems to me to come to this,— whether two things, both of which are entirely unknown to us, are the same, or whether they are different. Now it is very difficult to answer a question of that kind. We may, perhaps, make it more clear, and bring it into a shape more susceptible of an answer, by putting it in these terms—Is gonorrhoeal dis- charge capable of producing syphilis, and is the secretion of syphilitic sores capable of producing gonorrhoea ? In this way it is reduced to a question of fact, which we might suppose could be answered with tolerable ease. Now if we see two effects that are perfectly like each other, we may naturally in- fer, that the causes which have produced them are similar ; and, on the other hand, when we see two effects totally dissi- milar, we may naturally infer a dissimilarity of causes. How does the case stand, then, with respect to the present question? Syphilis consists of ulceration, followed by a train of morbid appearances in various parts of the body, continuing a long time, sometimes several months. Gonorrhoea consists of in- flammation of a mucous surface, that of the urethra or vagina, going through a certain course, coming to a natural end, and