CAUSES AND EFFECTS OF INFLAMMATION. 75 another period ; yet we find in many of those individuals, that there is an unnatural fulness and strength of pulse. It is excited by the slightest exertion. When we take blood from them, it frequently presents the appearance which characterises blood drawn from persons labouring under inflammation ; it is buffed and cupped, so that whether the quantity is greater or not, at all events we can determine that such individuals are in an unhealthy state. They are in a state very similar to that of fe- males in whom menstruation is suppressed, where you will have flushed countenance, pain of head, and heat of the surface; or to that of females in whom menstruation has not occurred at the time it ought, it is a similar state to that which occurs in persons where old ulcers have been rapidly healed. For my own part 1 am inclined to think, that there is an increased quantity of blood in the system ; and that the expression of plethora ap- plied in such cases is literally correct. I remember a person coming under my care with cataract, for the purpose of under- going the operation. He was a man between forty and fifty years of age. When I asked him bow he was in his general health, be said, perfectly well. But be had an enormous head, with a particularly large face, and that of a very deep brownish sort of red colour: in fact, the appearance indicated that state of the capillary system, which I did not like in a person about to undergo such an operation. This led me into further in- quiries, and 1 found that he had been in the habit of taking an inordinate quantity of animal food and fermented liquor. He had a full, strong, and hard pulse, and there were other cir- cumstances, in the state of his tongue, digestive organs, and so forth, which proved, though he said he was in a healthy state, that he was in a condition very far from it; in that condition in which I felt perfectly satisfied, if 1 performed the operation, inflammation of a destructive kind would be the result. I did not operate for ten days or a fortnight afterwards. In that time I took 120 ounces of blood from him, and did not conceive it safe to operate without doing so. Now, I conceive, that this was a larger quantity than 1 could have taken with advantage, had there not been more in his veins than natural. With this depletion were combined the daily use of purgatives, and re- striction from all animal food and fermented liquor, his diet being confined to gruel and broth. At the end of the time he was another man to what he had been at the commencement: thus I brought him to the point at which I thought the opera- tion could be safely performed, and it so turned out; in fact, I never saw one succeed more completely. At our next meeting I shall proceed to consider the forms of inflammation which are produced sympathetically.