333 TRIMARY SYPHILIS. the occurrence of secondary disease. Now on this point the opinion of Mr. Hunter seems to have been, that the employment of mercury could have no effect as to the subsequent occurrence of secondary symptoms. He says, generally throughout his work, that mercury will cure the condition of the venereal dis- ease, but that it will not cure the disposition to it; that is, that it will cure the disease which exists at the time you employ it, but that it will not prevent the occurrence of subsequent symp- toms. His opinions on this point, in various parts of his works, are contradictory; and, I suppose, in point of fact, that he really never instituted any comparative trial himself, but that the opi- nions he has given on this subject are rather theoretical than practical. However, the returns of a great number of cases treated in the army in the one way and in the other—the returns of cases where patients continued under the constant observa- tion of practitioners for a considerable length of time, where there was an opportunity of accurately ascertaining the result— the returns of such cases lead us to an opinion quite contrary to the statements of Mr. Hunter. They certainly induce us to think that the employment of mercury in the treatment of the primary symptoms, has a marked effect in preventing the occur- rence of constitutional or secondary symptoms. This, of course, is entirely a question of experience ; it can only be solved by observing the effect of the one and of the other treatment, in a great number of cases. Mr. Rose states, that of the cases he treated without mercury, about one in three had secondary symptoms ; that is, a third of all the cases had constitutional symptoms. There were some experiments made, about the same time, at the York Hospital—a military hospital at Chelsea, which has been discontinued, and in those experiments it was stated, that the proportion was one in ten ; but in larger expe- rience in the army, it is found that the proportion of secondary symptoms is not more than one in twenty. In the 1940 case that were treated in the army without mercury, 96 instances of secondary symptoms occurred ; and that is about one in twenty of all descriptions. In the 2827 cases which were treated with mercury, there were only 51 cases of secondary symptoms, and that is one in fifty-five. So that, in the whole number of pri- mary cases which were treated without mercury, there was a proportion of secondary symptoms amounting to one-twentieth ; in the whole, treated with mercury, the proportion of secondary symptoms only amounted to one fifty-fifth. The inference, therefore, from this view is, that the employment of mercury in the treatment of primary syphilitic sores, has a marked influence in protecting the patient against secondary symptoms. Now I cannot adduce any experience of my own that at all