VENEREAL DISEASES. 285 vantageous; the employment of aperient medicines, low diet, and rest, and the treatment of the part immediately affected, as I have mentioned in the case of gout, must depend, in some measure, on the severity of the local symptoms. In some cases, local treatment alone is sufficient, without other means. You may employ local bleeding, fomentations, poultices, and, subsequently, blistering. Sometimes, in rheumatic affections, colchicum is also very beneficial, although it does not exhibit its effects in controlling rheumatism as it does in curing gout. We are certainly only properly acquainted with rheumatism as it affects the joints. Like gout, it appears to attack chiefly the synovial and fibrous structures of a joint; but, in common language, rheumatism is understood in a more extensive accep- tation of the word, and is considered to include affections of the muscles, and several other painful affections of parts not immediately connected with the joints, the diseases of which ought, perhaps, to be ascribed to other causes. There may be a great doubt as to whether painful affections of muscular parts, and painful affections occurring about the back and many other parts, ought to be classed as belonging to the same kind of disease which is considered to constitute the rheumatic affections of the joints themselves. It is probable that they, or some of them, ought rather to come under the head of neu- ralgia, an affection of the nerves, than under the head of rheumatism. A continuation of the subject of specific disease will lead us, iu the next place, gentlemen, to the consideration of venereal diseases; which we will defer to the next lecture. LECTURE XXIII. Venereal Di seases-—History—Syphilis— Treatment. Gentlemen, the expressions, syphilis and venereal disease, are used indifferently to denote a train of morbid appearances that arise from infection communicated from a diseased to a healthy person, either by sexual intercourse, or in some other direct manner. The latter of these two expressions is the more general ; for venereal disease, according to the etymology of the word venereal, includes all those diseases that proceed from sexual intercourse. Adopting that expression, then, in its