SYMPATHETIC INFLAMMATION. 82 Lis views in a series of papers, which you will find in the 9th and 10th volumes of the Edinburgh Medical Journal; and be has also published them partly in an essay on the Bath waters, together with some remarks on the physiology and pathology of the human frame, printed at Bath in 1822. It was only lately that I had an opportunity of seeing the writings of Dr. Barlow ; and I was considerably interested in them, from finding a close coincidence between his opinions and those I had formed from other considerations. In many parts, not only are the same opinions expressed, but the very same language 1 have held myself is used, though 1 never had any communication with this intelligent author; and I was certainly pleased to find my own notions corroborated by so competent a judge as he is. 1 think he would perform a service to iiis profession, if he were to put together, in a short form, the pathological and practical views scattered through the various writings I have men- tioned. It is necessary, however, to go a little more minutely into the symptoms of the conditions we have been describing, as they appear in particular parts, and in the digestive system more especially, though it will not be requisite to detain you at any great length in doing so. In the stomach we observe, under the circumstances I have now alluded to, that unpleasant sensations are produced after taking food; that a sense of weight is experienced, and that heartburn or flatulence is often felt. Often there is a defective appetite; in other cases there is an unnatural or excessive de- sire for food. Although an excessive quantity of food is taken, yet, as it is not duly digested, there is a constant desire or craving for more, which leads the individual to continue to overload the stomach. In the intestines we find an irregular performance in their functions; very frequently costiveness, and this succeeded by, or alternating with, an opposite con- dition, that of pain, griping and purging. Sometimes they contain an immense accumulation of faecal matter, a large quantity of which remains for a considerable length of time, even after there had been liquid motions produced. It is by no means uncommou to find, where there are watery motions, a considerable quantity of hardened matter remaining in the canal, and not evacuated by these motions. When we regard the size of the liver, when we look at its complicated structure, and observe the peculiarity of the venous blood of the alimen- tary canal being circulated through it, we naturally expect to find a very great and important function executed by it. But really we are not able to state very accurately what that func- tion is, nor can it be said that we have discovered for the liver