223 TETANUS. is, it is produced by internal causes, or seems to arise, in com- mon language, spontaneously; or it is the result of a wound, in which case it is called sympathetic or traumatic. The pro- gress of the affection differs in rapidity in different instances, and hence it is divided into acute and chronic. The truth is, i that there are hardly any cases that properly deserve the name | of chronic. Tetanus, in some cases, is less acute than in others, ; but it is never protracted or long continued. There is not the same distinction into acute and chronic in tetanus, as there is in inflammation; all we can say of it is, that some cases are less acute than others. The consideration of idiopathic tetanus belongs to the physi- cian ; I have, therefore, only to speak to you of that form of the affection which occurs in consequence of a wound or injury. Traumatic tetanus, then, is the name applied to that form of the disease which derives its origin from the infliction of wounds; and it is observed to arise, more particularly in consequence of wounds of the extremities, happening very rarely, if at all, in consequence of wounds of the head, neck, or trunk. It is pro- duced, most commonly, in consequence of contused, lacerated, or punctured wounds; and it has been supposed to arise, more especially, from such wounds as are attended by injury, such as division, laceration, or puncture of nerves. The truth is, that all wounds which take place in the soft parts of the body, are accompanied with more or less injury to some nerves; so that we cannot have a wound of a soft part without it. I am not aware that there is any direct evidence to show that injuries of nerves are more or less likely to pro- duce tetanus than injuries of soft parts, independently of parti- cular injury to nerves. It has been said that tetanus may arise from nerves being included with an artery in a ligature, after an operation. I fancy that this is an imaginary conclu- sion. It happens, no doubt, very commonly, that nerves are included in ligatures with arteries which are tied ; but, at all events, tetanus in these climates, after operations, is a very rare occurrence. Tetanus will occur in all states or stages of a wound. It may happen when a wound is in an inflamed or sloughing state; it may happen when a wound is going on very favourably towards healing, and when healing is considerably advanced. It is observed by Sir James M'Grigor, in his account of the Sur- gical History of the English Army in the Campaigns of Spain and Portugal, that tetanus was observed to take place in con- sequence of all descriptions of wounds, both serious and trivial; both incised, punctured, and lacerated; and that it took place in all their various stages.