245 HYDROPHOBIA. confounded with any other disease. I think nobody who has once seen it will raise the question, which has, however, been ogituted, whether there is really hydrophobia or not. The affection is so totally unlike any other disease, that I do not know any one disease which can be mistaken for it. Examinations after death have not elicited very satisfactorily the nature of this affection. The morbid appearances do not correspond in degree or importance with the severity of the symptoms which the full development of the affection presents. Slight appearances of inflammatory affection are found about the pharynx or oesophagus—perhaps in the trachea. Sometimes a similar appearance may be found in the stomach. Determi- nation of blood, vascular congestion, unnatural fulness of the vessels, and perhaps effusion of a serous nature on the pia mater, are found in the head. Treatment.-— With respect to the treatment of hydrophobia, I can only observe to you that we are not acquainted with any plan, or any medicines which seem to exercise any power over this dreadful complaint; at least, no authenticated instance exists of recovery, after the symptoms of hydrophobia have once manifested themselves. Opium has been very freely ad- ministered, by the mouth, in the form of glysters, and also by injection into the veins of the animal or patient affected, and immense quantities have been given in these various forms. Here, as in tetanus, opium exerts much less effect on the frame than it does under ordinary circumstances, so that immense doses can be borne. Magendie observes, that a certain dose of opium injected into the veins of a dog, has sent that dog to sleep; but that if ten times that quantity be injected into the veins of a dog affected with rabies, it has no effect. He also remarks, that a singular effect is produced on the animal economy, by causing a state of artificial plethora of the blood- vessels—that is, by injecting warm water into the veins. He tried this in the human subject. He threw a pint of tepid water into a vein, and he found that the symptoms were greatly miti- gated; indeed, that they seemed, for a time, altogether re- moved. The patient was easy, and slept, and it seemed as if great benefit would be the result. The symptoms, however, again came on, and the patient died at the end of the fifth day. Notlongsince a proposal was made, founded on a mode of treat- ment suggested in the East Indies, of adopting very copious ve- nesection in hydrophobia. You will easily suppose that the loss of blood had already been tried in cases of this kind. However, patients have been bled very largely in cases where it was said, in the East Indies, to have a favourable effect, and bleeding to a large extent has been adopted on that suggestion in this coun-