265 SCROFULA. of the neck and of the mesentery. The absorbent glands of the groin are much more rarely affected, and those of the axilla are seldom observed to be the seat of scrofulous disease. One of the principal exciting causes to scrofulous disease, is i exposure to cold ; and you will easily see from that, why the glands of the neck are so frequently the seat of the attack ; but ; yet this does not explain how those of the mesentery become affected, because these, as we all know, are kept warm enough. The truth is, that the mucous membrane of the intestines is ■very commonly disordered in such cases, and the disease of the absorbent gland is consequent. Indeed, it will frequently I happen, that the affection of the glands is secondary in scro- Ifula, as well as in other cases of disease, and although they ; may appear to us to be affected primarily, yet if we come to texamine them narrowly, we shall find the affection of the . glands to be decidedly in consequence of disease in some parts i from which their vessels are derived. Other parts, after the absorbent glands are affected, come to be frequently the seat of -.scrofulous disease : the lips, the eye-lids, the mammary gland of the female, the cuticle. The mucous membranes of the body - are very subject to its attacks. Those of the eye and nostrils rare particularly so. They are exposed and open to the external causes which produce it. The liniug membranes of the respi- • ratory and digestive organs are also frequently the seat of dis- ease in scrofulous subjects. The mucous membranes of the uri- nary passages are not liable to tbe same external cause, and we do not find that they suffer. The skin, in its morbid affections, shows a close affinity to the mucous membrane, and thus the skin suffers very much with the mucous membranes; indeed, II need not observe, that it is extremely exposed to the exciting (Cause of scrofula. The lungs are subject to it, and consump- tion is merely a form of scrofula. The bones and joints are i likewise subject to it. These are the parts of the frame that are more particularly liable to the effects of scrofula. Now, fortunately for the human race, the liability to scro- fula does not exist equally throughout the whole of life. It is :confined pretty much to the period of growth, or rather to that ■ portion of life which intervenes between the termination of suckling and puberty. In many individuals, the whole of this period is occupied by a succession of attacks of scrofulous dis- ease in the absorbent glands, the skin and the joints, and very often it exists in several of these purls at one and the same time. In individuals who have had scrofula in these various shapes, extending over the whole of tbe body, and who have been for 1 several years the subjects of the most serious forms of the dis- ease up to the time of puberty, it is by no meuns uncommon to