1G7 ON ULCERATION. tnours which form in the soft parts of any of the limbs, or of the trunk of the body, but even of those which form in the interior of bony cavities ; for example, if a tumour forms on the surface of the dura mater, although its progress externally is arrested by the skull, it will cause absorption of the bone, and come through. This is an instance (showing the specimen) of that kind where a tumour has been formed on the internal surface of the dura mater. A quantity of the skull is removed, and the tumour has made its way through the bone and come out externally. In all these various cases there is a gradual removal of the textures which intervene between the disease and the external surface of the body, or between the disease and the surface of some one or other of the mucous cavities of the body ; the parts are removed by absorption. This particular process is what is called by Mr. Hunter “progressive absorption;” it is the removal by the absorbents of the intervening parts in the progress of the disease to the surface of the body. The term “ progressive” absorption is, perhaps, not very happily chosen, to designate any particular kind of absorption ; because all ab- sorption is necessarily progressive, and this kind of absorption is not progressive in any higher degree than any other sort. But the truth is, that, in this instance, the advance of the dis- ease to the surface of the body is progressive, and that, I sup- pose, is what Mr. Hunter meant. At all events, this particular kind of absorption is not more progressive than any other. The removal of the parts by absorption in these instances is preceded by some degree of inflammation ; that is, there is some previous thickening and consolidation of the textures, which are afterwards to be removed by the absorbents ; the sac of the abscess, or of the aneurism, remains entire, and is the last to give way. There is no escape of the contents of either of the cavities into the parts that are progressively removed. The contents of the aneurism still remain barred and walled in as they were, the parts through which the advance is made being consolidated by a slight degree of adhesive inflammation, which precedes absorption. A portion Of the substance of the body may be removed, so as to occasion an external breach in the surface, or a portion of the surface of some internal organ may be removed in the same kind of way. The same process is observed in the separation of a slough from the contiguous living parts. Youlind that a groove takes place, first along the margin of the dead part; that this becomes deeper and deeper, and at last that it extends throughout the whole depth of the mortification, so as com- pletely to separate the dead part from the living. This process