DISORDER OF THE DIGESTIVE ORGANS. 83 any sufficient purpose, which so large an organ is intended to answer. It has been said, however, that the colour of the feeces depends on the admixture of the bile in the alimentary canal, therefore that the colour of the stools may be regarded as a criterion for determining whether the liver is in a healthy or natural state or not. To a certain extent, I apprehend, this notion may be correct; for we see, that when the passage of bile iuto the alimentary canal is stopped, as it in certain cases is, the ftecal matter is of a whitish, greyish, or clayish appearance, totally different from that peculiar brown colour, which belongs to a healthy condition or faeces. The admixture of bile, however, is not the only circumstance to be taken notice of in considering the colour of the motions. The pecu- liar nature of the food very often has a marked effect on this; and particular substances taken into the stomach will produce striking appearances. It is well known, for example, that steel medicine will make them black, and a person that has eaten a considerable quantity of spinach, will find that the mo- tions are turned green by it. There can be no doubt, indeed, when we reflect on the fact, that the whole surface of the alimentary canal is a secreting surface, that the nature of its secretions, as well as the bile, must affect the colour and nature of the motions. The tongue seldom shows a natural appearance when the alimentary canal is disturbed. A foul and loaded state of the tongue, its being covered by a kind of nasty mucous deposit, is an unequivocal sign that the stomach is unhealthy. There are varieties in the appearance of the ; tongue; it does not always exhibit the same characters. Fre quently in disturbances of the alimentary canal of long stand- ing, it is of a yellow-brownish colour, something like buff appearance. The white state of the tongue in my opinion, is not to be regarded particularly as indicating disorder of the stomach. We see the tougue sometimes white, not from being covered by any secretion of white appearance, but as if the substance of the organ itself was rendered white. This is observed in cases either of plethora, when persons are just i passing into a condition of disease, or in cases of active inflam- matory disturbance of the system; and it is an indication of those states, rather than of any particular kind of disturbance of the stomach. It is a tolerably unerring criterion of the exist- ence of inflammatory disturbance in the system, and generally it is a proof that blood may be sarely taken. Whenever the functions of the stomach, liver, and alimentary canal are im- : paired, you must carefully examine into the state of the urine ; ' to find if it be properly secreted, or if it be altered in quantity or in quality. It is the office of the kidneys to separate from the G 2