98 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION ; relief; and, in fact, you find that those points you are endea- vouring to gain by medicine, and do not accomplish for a long time, are at once effected by a free loss of blood. Very fre- quently a free evacuation of the bowels come on after blood- letting, particularly if you induce syncope ; you also find that, soon after venesection, the patient will get into a free perspi- ration, and that the secretions are restored from the period of your taking away the load that oppresses the circulation. When the system is relieved from that oppressive load, the natural action of the different parts goes on properly, and thus direct free repletion, accomplishes at once, that which you are endeavouring to accomplish by indirect means for a considera- ble time} thus, too, we materially abridge the sufferings of the patient. A notion has been entertained, that persons who live iu Loudon, or in large cities, will not bear direct depletion, and that, therefore, the loss of blood which is proper and advan- tageous in the case of persons who live in the country, is im- proper in the case of the inhabitants of London, and persons residing in large towns. How this notion arose, or how it has happened to become so general, I really do not know, for I cannot conceive, that any idea can be more erroneous. With the inhabitants of London, and large towns, we know that all kinds of luxurious indulgences which tend to repletion are carried to the utmost extent. We know that sedentary habits, which favour such repletion, are very prevalent, and, there- fore, all the habits and circumstances exist calculated to pro- duce direct plethora—that state in which high inflammatory action will occur, and in which that inflammatory action will require the most active means. I can only say that I have constantly found in patients in London, such a state of local disorder, and general disturbance connected with it, as to re- quire the most free use of the antiphlogistic means, and the direct bleeding I have been speaking of. 1 conceive, therefore, that the notion of a different plan of treatment, in cases occur- ring in London, and cases occurring in other situations, is totally unfounded. Another fear has been entertained respecting the mode of treatment 1 have been adverting to, which is, that although it may be of efficacy in arresting the inflammatory action for the moment, the advantage is gained at the expense of subsequent debility j that the patieut will be so weakened, that serious injury will be done to the constitution. Now, that is a fear of which I do not partake in the smallest degree. I do think there is great fear of violent inflammation ; but my fears of debility from inflammation are, of that deoihly which is to be