GOUT, 281 action obtains a vent. The local disease of the joint carries < that off which would otherwise show itself in some internal organ. Warmth, therefore, and rest, are circumstaoces to be attended to in treating gout, if the disease confine itself within moderate limits. If it go beyond this, we may employ leeches and fomentations. Under certain circumstances, we should bleed freely—we should purge the patient; we should generally administer calomel, in combination with antimony and colo- cynth, and other aperients, and put the patient on low diet. After venesection, purging, and the adoption of low diet, we derive great advantage from the employment of a remedy which is of rather recent introduction—that is, colchicum. This frequently acts on the bowels ; it produces perspiration, and it lowers the pulse; it is given in various forms, either in the shape of powder (the powder is the bulbed root dried), or in a kind of tincture, formed from the same part of the plant, or in seeds. Perhaps the latter is the most invariable in its efficacy, and is the form in which its administration is to be preferred. Now this remedy has so beneficial an effect in gouty infiamma- trou, that many persons have regarded it as a specific, as having a peculiar power of removing the effects which gout is capable of producing. Such are the means by which that condition of the system may be removed, from which the gouty attack of tire part takes its origiu. The more important consideration is—what means should be employed to prevent the recurrence of the attacks ? For if those habits of living, which, in the first place, contribute to produce that state of plethora which favours the production of the disease, are continued, you can have no doubt that the in- dividual will be subject to future attacks; that those attacks will become more and more severe, extending to different parts of the body, and that they will ultimately reauce the patient to that state of suffering, in which life possesses very little worth desiring. Now there are two modes, two courses, which per- sons may take, in order to free themselves from this condition of the system ; and unless they adopt those courses, and those alone, they will not succeed in their object. The first is tem- perance, and the second, exercise. Persons must be content to work hard, and live very moderately ; they must, to use com- mon language, keep their eyes open, and their mouths shut; and if they cannot prevail on themselves to do this, they will con- tinue to suffer from gout. Now there are two very opposite things to which mankind are attached; sensual gratification— they wish to have the power of indulging their appetites, and leading indolent lives; and they like, at the same time, to enjoy good health. They want to have things incompatable