ANTIMONY, MERCURY, DIET, ETC. 105 Now in the exhibition of calomel in inflammation, for in- stance, of the iris, we can see the mode in which the medicine sets : the inflammation is accompanied with effusion of lymph r..n the inflamed membrane. We see calomel, more particularly [if we carry the use of it to the extent of affecting the mouth, i’ery speedily arrests this deposition of the lymph, and that t-vhat has been deposited, becomes quickly absorbed! When I tjpeak of calomel, of course I mean to speak to you of the action : jf mercury generally, for I do suppose, in fact we know, that fihe effect is not confined to that particular form of the remedy. Here, then, is clear evidence that it is by arresting the forma- tion of lymph, and promoting its absorption, that these effects k ire produced. There is another case in which the use of calo- tmel has been found to be very advantageous, and that is in i.:hat peculiar form of inflammation in the larynx and trachea, r-which is accompanied with an effusion or lymph, forming an ’.adventitious layer of substance on the surface of the inflamed ^membrane. It is not improbable then, that mercury may pos- sess this general power of controlling that action of the capillary • vessels on which the effusion of lymph depends, and thus of .oreventing the changes of structure which follow inflammation, iThis, however, is a point which remains open for future obser- vation. The means that I have now described, taken altogether, con- stitute what is called the antiphlogistic treatment, or the anti- phlogistic plan, which merely means the treatment or plan (calculated to counteract inflammation—the treatment or plan opposed to inflammation. And when we speak simply of the . general management, more particularly of the diet, we call that the antiphlogistic regimen. Although it may be stated generally, that local applications are of much less importance in the treatment of inflammation than general means, yet they are often very useful auxiliaries; '-they at all events, in many instances, produce a comfortable •effect to the patient’s feelings, and therefore, we employ them, even if only for that purpose. The increased heat of a part has naturally led to the employment of cold. When a person has a part of the body, or the whole frame, preternaturally hot, • you would expose that part of his person to the cold in order to afford relief. We find, indeed, that the application of cold to the human body has a very powerful influence in checking increased action. In the case of wounds, people are in the habit continually of employing cold to check bleeding ; in fact, by applying intense cold for a considerable length of time, we cannot only reduce vascular excitement, but stop vascular action altogether. Various applications, then, have been made