ON GRANULATION. 172 process has been going on, and that he has found, in the imme- diate neighbourhood of a healing ulcer, the thermometer has risen two degrees higher than in the contiguous parts of the same limb. I have already mentioned to you, that we use the terms lymph, coagulating lymph, and coagulable lymph, rather vaguely. The truth is, our knowledge on pathological subjects is not sufficiently accurate to enable us to employ these terms in a very strict sense. Heretofore, the substance by which the breach of an ulcer is filled up—that which is effused on serous membrane in a state of inflammation—that which is poured into the interstices of a part under adhesive inflammation was called coagulable lymph. This term seems to imply, that the lymph should be in a fluid state, but that it would, under certain circumstances, undergo coagulation. Mr. Hunter, I believe, commonly called it coagulable lymph, which I think is the preferable term, for it generally coagulates. Thus, on a serous membrane, it forms masses of a soft substance, but yet in a coagulating state. Dr. John Thomson’s work on inflammation contains a very valuable collection of facts relating to that process and all its effects; it is a work which I think you will find very useful, but I believe it is out of print, and I think it would be a valuable service to the public if he would now reprint it with such additional information and facts as he may have collected; he speaks of this lymph under the term of organisable lymph, for it is a striking circumstance, that when it is effused on any part of the body, it very speedily becomes organized, or made into a living texture, to form some part of the body. However, I merely make these remarks to show you, that, under the epithet of lymph simply, or coagulable lymph,or coagulating lymph, or organizable lymph, the same thing is meant, as I have had occasion already to mention to you repeatedly in the course of these lectures. This, then, is considered to be the basis of the healing pro- cess,—that soft substance formed by coagulable lymph. I have mentioned to you, that very soon after this is deposited, it receives blood-vessels, absorbents, and nerves, so that it be- comes generally organized. Respecting the blood-vessels in these granulations, you can be at very little loss for proof; because, in the first place, there is the red colour, which entirely depends on the blood they contain ; and this shows that they not only possess blood- vessels, but that they are extremely vascular. Under many circumstances they are of a very florid colour, like that of arterial blood; under other circumstances the colour is more livid, like that of venous blood. However, by looking atten-