371 WARTS. to cool it as much as possible; then you press gently upon the swollen glans with the thumb, or with the thumb and finger of the one hand, while you gradually draw the contracted orifice of the prepuce over the glans with the other. If you proceed thus slowly, squeezing the blood out of the glans to reduce its size as much as possible, and endeavour gradually to push it into the contracted orifice of the prepuce which you are draw- ing forward, you will usually, if not too hasty, succeed in relieving the patient from a situation of great alarm, apprehen- sion, and pain. When, however, the prepuce has been left in this state for a considerable time, a high degree of inflamma- tion occurs, effusion takes place, and, in fact, the skin of the prepuce becomes fixed and agglutinated in its unnatural situa- tion. Under such circumstances, you will find it necessary to cut through the stricture; for you will find that, although it may not produce bad effects on the glans, it will very much alter the appearance of the penis. If you make a small puncture in front of it, you will be able to introduce a small probe-pointed bistoury, and with that easily cut it through. Warts.—The irritation of gonorrceal discharge very frequently produces warts either on the glans or prepuce of the male, and still more frequently produces a great abundance of them on the external organs of generation of the female. Indeed, the external organs of the female are so situated and circumstanced as to lead to considerable moistening of them by gonorhoeal, or other dischages occurring in those cases of irritation. Dis- charges, uncleaned, continue to irritate the parts, and thus you have immense growths of warts about the origin of the vagina, the nymphae, the lower parts of the perineum, and the neighbourhood of the anus. Sometimes the orifice of the anus is quite covered with them, so that you do not feel the end of the intestine. Indeed, those situations are so thickly beset with them, that you would not recognise the parts. Masses of them, not much less than your hand, proceed from those parts, arising from inflammation of the cutaneous textures, and ex- cited by the irritation of gonorrhoeal discharge. When warts are of moderate size, you may attack them either by escharotics or irritating substances. In the first place, you would attack them by putting a stop to the dis- charge which produces them, and that painful excoriation of the surface which accompanies them. When you have done that, you may rub the warts over, if they be of moderate size, with lunar caustic; or you may sprinkle them over with irritating powder. When they are large, however, they do not yield to this; you must then remove them with the scissars, and rub the parts over with the lunar caustic, soon afterwards, DBS