274 SCROFULA. or some other simple dressing. But when the surface of the sore is red, when these signs of deficiency of power are ob- served, you may touch the surface of the sore with a solution of the nitrate of silver, or of the sulphate of zinc, or of some local stimulus, in proportion to the want of active vitality. In chronic scrofulous inflammation, you often find it neces- sary to have recourse, in the first place, to a mild antiphlogis- tic treatment, and afterwards to means of greater irritation; to blisters, to setons, or to issues ; or, by way of producing irri- tion, to rubbing tartarised antimony on the skin. The mention of this latter medicine leads me to remark to you, that you may, in many cases, observe how scrofulous disease imitates the process which nature employs ; you will often find that scrofulous disease ceases in one situation, and makes its ap- pearauce in a neighbouring part; for example, a patient with strumous ophthalmia, and suffering very much from it, will have an eruption and discharge take place from the skin, be- hind the ears, for instance, and then the eyes will get quite well, and so the disease will shift from one part to another. Now, following up the hint, you will find that the use of tar- tarised antimony, rubbed on the skin, may be very advan- tageously employed to produce a disease that will supersede one which exists in another part, and that it is a powerful means of removing strumous ophthalmia. I have heard that persons, in the course of their practice, have employed it still more extensively than in the degree to which I allude. For example, for affections of the glands of the neck, they produce an eruption by rubbing tartar emetic on the arms ; and in case of its appearing lower on the body, they use it so as to produce a copious eruption on the thighs. This is an imitation of the process which nature herself employs in the cure of these affections. LECTURE XXII. Treatment of Scrofula continued. — Gout— Rheumatism. I spoke to you, gentlemen, in the last lecture, of the em- ployment of tonics in the treatment of scrofula ; I mentioned to you the reason why I cousidered the use of them objection- able generally; but I stated, that under certain circumstances they were allowable, and even advantageous. I might have