CAUSES AND EFFECTS OF INFLAMMATION. 73 :tioned, and says, that bis diet consisted of twelve ounces of : solid food and fourteen of liquid, per diem ; that would be four ounces of solid food taken three times a day. He states that this system of abstinence was so necessary to the enjoyment of :his health, that when he exceeded the twelve ounces and took i fourteen, he immediately became hot and feverish, and felt the . necessity of going back to his former quantity. I was very well acquainted with a lady, the mother of a numerous family, always robust, healthy, and capable of taking plenty of exer- cise. She lived very carefully, never taking more than a single glass of wine a day, and seldom that, with about half the quantity of food that persons ordinarily take. She, however, was occasionally subject to disease, and that was of an inflatn- 1 matory nature (erysipelas), though she lived in this abstemious way. At rather an advanced period of life she had an attack of determination of blood to the head, which required an active system of abstinence for a considerable time. This proves that the quantity of animal food and fermented liquor in which people commonly indulge, and which they suppose is necessary to health, is not so, as may be shown by a variety of : facts. I was myself acquainted with a lady, who, from a kind of whim, began to live on vegetable diet. She was in good health, and it was not necessary at all for her to give up her ordinary habits of life. She took a fancy, however, to live in this way, and on distilled water, and, in point of fact, she did live on fruit and vegetables, without tasting animal substance, except the milk she took in her tea, for several years. I never knew a more active person; she made nothing of walking ten 1 miles, and could walk twenty. She was a very little, sprightly- made woman. She bore two children during the time 1 knew i her, and suckled them for about twelve months each, during which time she took only what I have mentioned—vegetables and fruit to eat, and distilled water to drink, taking nothing stronger than tea, or tea mixed with milk ; yet they were fine healthy children. In London we have the opportunity of observing the effects of habits contrary to these. Persons who follow laborious oc- cupations here, such as porters, coal-heavers, draymen, and a variety of other individuals, do eat and drink most enormously. A great number of them pass through this hospital, and give us the opportunity of seeing their habits. As for two or three pots of porter^i day, that is quite a moderate quantity ! You really would hardly believe, that many of these persons drink eight, ten, twelve, or fourteen quarts of porter a day, filling up the intervals with glasses of gin; and taking animal food in pro- portions that would perfectly astonish you ! Now these are in-