PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF FEVER. 115 i:t once what ought to be done. “ You ought,” says he, “ to uve on sixpence a day, and to work, for it.” I think it may be stated in general, that about three times a hay is often enough to take food. People should take three ;.aeals a day, at periods of about equal intervals, and certainly, v.nimal food and fermented liquor should not be taken more ‘ihan once a day. It is true that persons who perform a great t ieal of laborious exertion—those who take a great deal of ex- rrcise of any kind—those who live a great deal in the open air, £.\re capable of bearing a more stimulating diet, and they conti- nue to enjoy good health under it. But the generality of man- kind will consult their health most effectually by confining tuhemselves to the use of animal food and fermented liquor at kheir chief or dinner meal only. It is desirable for you to know the mode of diet that is fittest r students. The truth is, that considerable employment of e head is attended with an excitement of the brain; and hen the brain is thus excited by its proper occupation, it will lot bear the additional stimulus of animal food and fermented •iquor. You must all know that a hearty meal of animal food. Moth beer and wine, produces an obvious temporary excitement S !>f the head, accompanied by redness and throbbing of the ar- ikeries. A person actively employed in* studies of any kind, :annot, in general, bear animal food twice a-day. The rules of temperance, on the whole, may be considered as rather more strict in reference to persons who are employing themselves in ;.he way alluded to, than as regards the generality of mankind. I have mentioned to you the general disturbance which ac- companies local inflammation, under the name of sympathetic inflammatory fever. The Latin word febris, which is derived rom ferveo, to be hot, and the Greek word pyrexia, which is -derived from <nn/p, fire, both denote the most obvious character of it, namely, increased heat, with which increased frequency of the pulse is combined. These two circumstances, increased aeat and increased frequency of pulse, are found in different states of the body; that is, in states which differ from each other in other respects. The excitement producing increased leat, and the increased frequency of pulse, may be combined with various other disturbances in various other parts of the system. Hence it has been found impossible to establish any definition, or to give any short description of fever, which shall comprehend all the ailments included under that word. It is, indeed, useless to make the attempt; for, in many cases of fever, the distinct seat and nature of disease are still matters of doubt. Now fever, taken in its original and in its most obvious ac-