145 TREATMENT OF ABSCESS. that the matter of chronic abscess is thin, approaching often to what we call the serous, whey-like, appearance ; and that it contains a curdy substance, flakes, or shreds. Those flakes of matter contained in chronic abscesses, are sometimes described as flakes of lymph, that word being often employed in a very vague and indefinite manner, and one is really obliged to use it as other people do. Large masses are sometimes met with in chronic abspess, having rather a firm and fibrous texture; but I do not exactly know how to explain their occurrence. They are sometimes very firm, of tolerable size, and often afford considerable resistance, as if they were composed of cellular membrane. The fluid very frequently resembles serum, and it is from this circumstance that the name of lymphatic abscess has been given ; that is a term by which they are frequently described by the older, and the continental, writers. As the inflammations accompanying chronic abscesses are so much less marked than those which produce the acute, you will, in general, find that the cyst is much thinner, and the feeling of the abscess in the limb is so soft, that you might almost be of opinion that the matter is contained in the limb without a cyst; and you do not find the smooth surface walled and baricadoed by that thick cyst which characterizes the phlegmonous abscess. For this reason, chronic abscesses very usually extend their circumference in all directions, and they are apt to acquire a very considerable magnitude ; for not only- are they deficient in the strength of the cyst which limits their extent, but there is also a disposition to come to the surface. When, therefore, their advance to the surface is opposed by fasciae, as in the case of the thigh, they may advance along the whole length of the limb without coming to any particular point—thus extending from the trochanter down even to the knee. Chronic abscesses are generally included under the head of what are called spontaneous inflammations; that is, they attack places from internal causes, which, in most instances, elude our observation. Sometimes, however, they arise from obvious local causes—the irritation of a diseased bone, for ex- ample, continuing to act, will produce collections of matter of this kind. It is purulent secretion of this description, arising from such a cause, which constitutes the chronic abscess termed psoas or lumbar abscess, where, in consequence of the disease of the vertebrae of the lower portion of the back or loins, matter forms around that diseased part, and then descends through the loose cellular membrane, covering the muscles along the side of the pelvis, into the thigh; it may take a course towards the back, or may go in various directions, either within or on L