256 WOUNDS RECEIVED IN DISSECTION. become inflamed; the absorbent glands to which they lead may become inflamed ; the cellular membrane in which it is seated becomes inflamed, and this spreads throughout the whole limb generally, so that phlegmonous erysipelas is pro- duced. This, in fact, is capable of itself, without the existence, without any suspicion of the existence, of a poisonous cause for its origin, to give rise to very serious local, and equally serious general, symptoms. A great majority of the cases in which those serious local effects arise, admit of explanation, without any suspicion of the existence of a poisonous property as the immediate cause. The cause, therefore, arising from the existence of a poison, must be confined to a few cases where some particular local, and some particular general symptoms are produced. With respect to a great number of the ordinary cases, I think there can be no hesitation whatever in referring the phenomena which they exhibit to the effects of the wounds, considered merely as causes of local inflammation. There was a gentleman, a former pupil of this hospital, who wounded his thumb in sewing up a body; the body of a female who had died of some disease of the peritoneum. I believe he was hardly aware of having injured himself, the prick was so slight. However, in the course of the night after he had re- ceived this injury, he felt a very severe pain in the part. He might but have scarified the part a little, and received some slight wound ; "however, he felt extremely unwell, and when he awoke in the morning, he sent for a medical friend, who found him in a state of great excitement. He was a robust and hearty person, of a full habit. His friend found him with a full, hard, and strong palse, with considerable swelling about the part where the injury had been received, and that swelling extending to the fore-arm and arm. He was so extremely restless, and his nervous system was so much disturbed, that he could hardly keep himself quiet. He was in a state, in fact, which called immediately for pretty active depletion, which was resorted to, and he lost about thirty ounces of blood, I be- lieve, with considerable relief. He was better the next day, but still the upper extremity generally was swelled; the ab- sorbents leading from the thumb along the fore-arm and the absorbent glands in the axilla became inflamed; he had pain in the head, and the nervous symptoms continued. Leeches and cold were applied to the head, and purgative medicines were administered. On the following day all the symptoms were worse; the limb was more swelled; the inflammation of the absorbents and of the absorbent glands more obvious ; all the symptoms were more serious, and on this day I saw him. He fancied, from the swelling of the ball of the thumb where