221 LOCAL INJURY. point at which it had entered in front. I divided the skin with a bistoury, and took out the bullet. The gentleman was so low when I saw him, that it was necessary, after putting him to bed, to give him a little wine and water. However, he slowly recovered; the immediate depression arising from the wound went off, and it was soon manifest that no such injury had been inflicted on any organ of importance as was likely to destroy life. All that was done was, as the circulation became more vigorous, to bleed him very freely, to purge him, and to keep him in a state of absolute rest; and that plan was pur- sued to the utmost extent. The symptoms of active inflam- mation in the chest which had come on, disappeared on the employment of venesection and the means I have mentioned. He lost altogether an immense quantity of blood, and was reduced by these means apparently to death’s door. But he was a young person of good constitution, and it turned out that neither the heart, nor the stomach, nor even the lungs, had received any serious injury. He recovered completely—got quite well. —Scalds—Burns—Effects of various Acrid and Eschar otic Substances: Potash, Ammo- nia, Lime, Muriatic Acid, Nitrate of Silver. Local injury, Gentlemen, often immediately produces sym- pathetic disturbance of the stomach, the heart, or the nervous system. Thus it happens that wounds are accompanied, in many instances, by nausea, a sense of sickness, and even vomiting; with depression of the pulse, and often syncope; coldness, and pains of the surface; with agitation, anxiety, and alarm. Not uncommonly, too, such injuries are attended by rigours : this is an effect which happens on all occasions in which violent injuries are inflicted on the animal economy. Local inflammation is, very commonly, ushered in by chills and shiverings, such as occur during the formation of matter. 1 do not know that we can explain, very clearly, the mode in which these particular symptoms arise, nor point out, exactly, to which part of the system the occurrence of rigours is to be LECTURE XVIII. 1 etanus—Chemical Injuries—Effects