VENEREAL DISEASE ; 30G observe, that it arrests the action of those vessels in ulcers; that it puts a stop to that process of absorption which occasions the ulceration, and that it produces the deposition of the new matter which is necessary for repairing the breach produced by such ulceration. It has been said that mercury cures syphilis by its specific power; that is, that the mercury is a specific for the removal of the disease; implying that its administration would invariably put a stop to the disease, lfyour inquiry be,—Wbat is the spe- cific power of mercury ? the answer would be, To cure syphilis ; so that here we are reasoning in a circle. Mr. Hunter says, that mercury produces irritation in the system, which irritation supersedes or destroys the irritation caused by the venereal disease. Now, for my own part, I cannot discern any thing more in that statement, than that mercury cures the pox. I believe we have not yet got much further than this in our attempts at an explanation. In order to produce that beneficial influence of mercury which we wish in cases of syphilis, it is necessary to give the remedy repeatedly, and to persevere in the employment of it for a considerable length of time ; it is not one or two doses that will produce any effect; we must give the remedy several times, perhaps, in the course of the four- and-twenty hours, and we must persist in the use of it day after day, perhaps week after week, and even sometimes for months, before the requisite effect will be produced. We cannot say that the remedy is to be given repeatedly, exactly in the same doses during the whole of this time; we must watch the effects produced, and we shall find that we should sometimes dimi- nish, and sometimes increase, the dose; sometimes leave it off, and then resume the use of it again, our object beiug to pro- duce a certain effect on the system, and to keep that up for a certain length of time. When a person employs mercury in this way in the venereal disease, or indeed in any other complaint, the patient is said to go through a course of mercury ; it is called a mercurial course. Diet.—Now there are certain rules of diet and management to be observed, in order to ensure the favourable action of the remedy on the system. In the first place, we find that the effect of mercury is increased by warmth, aud by keeping the individual in a regulated temperature. Hence it used to be considered a rule that the patient should remain in a warm room; that he should not go out and expose himself to the air while he was going through a course of mercury. There is so far a reason for this, that free exposure to the cold air lessens the effect of the mercury. If you wish then to produce the effect of mercury readily, and to its highest extent, you should