34 NATURE AND CLASSIFICATION OF DISEASES. diabetes—increased flow of urine, &c. All these pass in noso>- logies as so many diseases; but you will see that they are merely names given to symptoms of disease. Such names are to be considered as indications of our ignorance. If we knew in each case which organ was diseased, we should, of course, adopt a name that would indicate the organ; but being igno- rant of that, we apply names in those cases to some particular leading symptoms. We come next, gentlemen, to consider the subject of the arrangement or classification of diseases ; and this, in a sub- ject so extensive and complicated as medicine, is a matter of very considerable consequence. I need not observe to you, that in any subject in which a great number of parts are to be considered, a methodical distribution of those parts very much lessens the labour both of the learner and the teacher. If a person should take up the subject of disease, and enter upon it without any arrangement, the multitude and varieties of dis- ease would seem to overpower him, and he would feel himself in a kind of labyrinth, without any sort of clue. The number of diseases is very great; and if you were to regard only the number, you might think it a hopeless attempt to endeavour to investigate so great a variety. ' The individual organs of the body are very numerous. Each of those organs is liable to be affected in various ways ; and every affection of each organ has its name, and is to be considered as a disease. Not only are all the organs of the body to be considered in this way, but in a great many instances a particular organ is very compli- cated, consisting of a great many component parts; each of those is liable to derangement, and all those various derange- ments have received names, and appear in nosologies as dis- eases. Take the case of the eye—1 believe, in consequence of its being open to external observation, and its structure being very complex, there are not less than two hundred diseases enumerated by nosologists as affecting this organ. You will not therefore be surprised, when the diseases of the whole body are enumerated, that they come to be reckoned up by hundreds or thousands. The study of disease, however, is not such a complicated and endless subject as this view of the simple catalogue of names would lead you to expect. I mentioned to you, in the Introductory Lecture, that though the individual organs are numerous, the textures by which they are built up are few. In fact, the ground-work of nearly all the organs consists of the cellular system, the vascular system, absorbents, and nerves. It is the various proportions in which they are com- bined, and the admixture with them of some structures which