ANTIMONY, MERCURY, DIET, ETC. 101 | i means like these have been used, to find a person capable of | i his usual active exertions, supposing the inflammation to have 11 been arrested by the depletion. VVe know, on the contrary, : how loug people remain ill, how protracted their convalescence i is, if inflammations are allowed to run on, as they often are, (for several days and weeks. I do not know that there is any one circumstance, or com- bination of symptoms, on which we can rely as a criterion or index, for pointing out when bleeding is proper, or what quan- tity should be taken. Certainly the pulse will not afford that criterion. If it be full, strong, and hard, you can have no ' hesitation about bleediug—the indication is clear. But you sometimes find the pulse low and oppressed, particularly in inflammatory affections of the head. Sometimes you have a small pulse, being, at the same time, hard or wiry, as in in- flammatory affections about the abdomen or bowels. As this then will not afford a certain criterion, you must look particu- I larly to the local symptoms, that is, to the state of the part j affected, and the condition of its function ; and when you find i in that evidence of disturbance, you must then freely employ ! the lancet, although the pulse should not, in point of fulness and strength, indicate the necessity of it. It has been said that the existence of the yellow covering on the concave surface of the crassamentum of the blood, may be deemed a criterion for venesection. We may perhaps allow, that where these appearances are seen, they justify us in con- tinuing to take blood, more particularly in concurrence with other indications; but we often find it necessary to continue the loss of blood, although it does not exhibit these inflamma- tory characters. I have had occasion to notice the whiteness of the tongue as a symptom indicating the loss of blood to be necessary. It may be well t-o look to tins in cases of inflammation, and not to regard it merely in reference to the state of the stomach and in- testinal canal alone, but as it respects she system at large. it is not sufficient, in the treatment of inflammation, to diminish the quantity of the circulating fluids by the loss of blood ; you must also prevent the introduction of further sup- plies into the system by the use of purgatives and the regula- tion of diet. You employ purgatives, in the first instance, to clear out the alimentary canal, to remove whatever is contained in it, and this, in general, produces considerable relief to the patient. For this purpose you give a good dose of some active aperient medicine, calomel, probably, combined with the ex- tract ofcolocynth, with jalap, or with rhubarb, quickly followed by an aperient draught of the infusion of senna with salts and