292 VENEREAL DISEASE. The next question is, whether there is one kind of poison, or whether there are more venereal poisons than one? Now, in- asmuch as the real nature of the poison, that is, the real source of the symptoms, is so far unknown to us as I have just ex- plained to you, this question resolves itself into another, which is, whether, among the various symptoms we recognise as sy- philitic, there are such differences; and whether those differ- ences are constantly observed in such states as to induce us to refer them to different sources ? We must acknowledge that, on a superficial view of the subject, there is a considerable di- versity of those symptoms to which we give the name of veue- real, or syphilitic ; that there is considerable diversity, whether we regard the primary or the secondary symptoms. The pri- mary may be a simple abrasion of the cuticie, or an excoriated ulcer, or an ulcer with an indurated base or edge, or a phage- denic or a sloughing ulcer. Syphilis may consist either of an ulcer alone, or of an ulcer with a bubo; or it may con- sist of those primary symptoms, followed by papular, tu- bercular, or scaly eruptions of the skin; or by ulceration of the skin ; or by superficial or excavated ulcerations of the tonsils, and sometimes of an enlaigement of the bones, periosteum, or of the joints. Heretofore all the appearances called syphilitic were refened to oue source ; they were con- sidered only as the various effects of one poison. In more modern times, and more particularly by Mr Hunter, a distinc- tion was attempted to be drawn, derived from the effects of mercury. When a disease was cured without the administra- tion of mercury, it was considered not to be syphilitic; and those diseases resulting from sexual intercourse, which disap- peared under the influence of mercury, were considered to be syphilitic ; thus was drawn the criterion of the syphilitic, or non- syphilitic cases by that circumstance. Mr. Carmichael, of Dub- lin, who is surgeon to a hospital in that city where a great number of patients labouring under this disease are received, lias published a work containing many good observations, and very excellent practical rules for the treatment of this disease, lu this work he has advocated the plurality of poisons. The result of his researches has led him to believe, that there are more poisons than one. He has attempted to show, that each particular kind of primary ulcer is attended w ith its own pecu- liar set of secondary symptoms; he has, therefore, collected in a set the primary symptoms which belong to one; and iu a separate set those which belong to another. He has thus esta- blished, in his opinion, four distinct kinds of disease, which he considers to be the result of as many distinct poisons. I am fully aware that many of the distinctions which Mr.Cannichael