INFLAMMATION. 52 in the transparent parts of certain animals, and then attempting to excite inflammation artificially, and to note the phenomena produced. These experimentalists have come to the most op- posite conclusions. Some have supposed there is an increased activity; others that there is an obstruction. Now as these contradictory results have been deduced front direct micros- copic inquiries, we can place but very little confidence in them; and, indeed, such investigations have not at all contributed towards giving us any real information on the subject of in- flammation. We can decide that the seat of inflammation is in the capillary vessels ; and that it is seated in the same ves- sels which carry on the healthy processes of nutrition, secretion, and excretion. I may observe, however, that we do not at present under- stand what the modifications are in the actions of those ves- sels which produce the various results we witness in the dif- ferent organs of the body: we do not know, for example, how it happens that the capillary vessels of one part deposit the sub- stance of muscles ; those of another part the substance of bone; of another, of fat; and so on. And as we cannot yet tell what the difference is in the minute vessels that gives rise to such remarkable differences in the healthy products of their action, so we need not be surprised that we are not able to determine exactly in what the disturbance consists which constitutes the diseased state of inflammation. [Mr. Lawrence here stated, that having proceeded thus far in describing the general state of inflammation, he would not that evening enter upon the particular parts of the subject; but having a few minutes to spare, he would advert briefly to two or three cases in the hospital, which illustrated some important practical points. He then adverted to a case (at that moment in the hospital) of a punctured lung, the wound having been inflicted by a knife, and the patient recovered ; the treatment was simply depletion to a great extent and quietude. Mr. Lawrence next referred to some cases of amputation, and gave it as his opinion, that in all instances in which serious injuries are sustained rendering it evident that amputation was neces- sary, the performance of the operation immediately, or within ten hours from the time of the accident, was wiser than delay- ing it for a longer period.]