260 WOUNDS RECEIVED IN DISSECTION. poisonous influence Las been excited, nor does it appear to me that the general symptoms of these cases are such as to induce a belief in such influence. We merely observe in them such sympathetic influence upon the circulating and nervous sys- tems as may be produced by a serious local injury, without the presence of any poison whatever, but which, occurring under particular states of health, is such, that in one case it termi- nates in recovery, and in another is fatal. I am still in doubt, therefore, whether there is any poison communicated in cases of injuries received in dissection. Malignant Pustules.—1 am aware that animal substances in certain states of decomposition, are capable of producing a di- rectly deleterious influence on the human frame. I have al- ready had occasion to mention, in speaking of mortification and diseases of that kind, such disturbances as malignant pus- tule, where mortification of the surface takes place. This is a kind of effect not so often seen in this country as in some others, where it is observed among the butchers, who have the flaying and cutting up of animals in a putrid state, which exerts this influence often to a fatal degree. That particular effect is de- scribed more minutely by Professor Delpech, in a work entitled “ Treatment of Surgical Diseases.” We have not much op- portunity of seeing it in this country, but in those instances there is a certain form the disease takes—a particular course which points out the operation of certain and peculiar causes ; but we do not see this regularity in those serious occurrences which occasionally arise from dissection. Treatment.—Now, with respect to the treatment of injuries that are received in dissection, some persons adopt the plan of touching the wound with the nitrate of silver, and I should suppose that that is a safe and a good mode of proceeding. There can be no doubt that if you expose the wound, thoroughly wash it, and touch it with the nitrate of silver, you would be likely to prevent any ill consequence likely to arise from it. Some have recommended that it should be washed with the oil of turpentine, which would have nearly the same result. These are means of a pieventive kind. Now, if any inflammation should come on, I conceive it will be necessary to keep the part in which the wound has been re- ceived, at perfect rest; to foment or to poultice it, to apply soothing applications. If there were symptoms of decided in- flammation proceeding, then it would be necessary to take blood from the part by leeches ; to take medicines for the pur- pose of evacuating the alimentary canal; and to adopt such measures of this kind as might be necessary until the danger is past. If still more considerable inflammation should have