CAUSES AND EFFECTS OF INFLAMMATION. 71 may mention scrofula, gout, and rheumatism ; these, in some measure, depend on natural and original differences of constitution, and are transmitted hereditarily; but in other instances they are produced by external agencies. An individual who may be supposed to be born healthy, may have a morbid disposition to disease, which may be either hereditary or acquired. It is to this the technical name of dia- thesis is applied. A scrofulous disposition, or scrofulous dia- thesis ; a rheumatic or gouty disposition, or rheumatic or gouty diathesis—these are equivalent terms. Age and sex, in some instances, give a particular disposition to certain diseases. Cliuates have certainly a marked influence in disposing to dis- ease. Atmospherical heat disposes to inflammation, and par- ticularly to that of the skin. Erysipelas is a very common and serioas occurrence in hot countries. The liver is very liable ta be aflected by high temperature. Thus, though abscess of this organ is rare in this country, yet nothing is more common than such »n affection in Europeans who visit the East or West In- dies. The yellow fever, a dreadful scourge in the latter coun- try, manifestly owes its origin to the effect of a high degree of heat on the system; in fact, the degree to which the liver participates is evinced by the name yellow fever, a name derived from the tint of the skin consequent on the biliary secretion. It is said that, in some of those places, if Fahren- heit’s thermometer remains steady at 80° for four or five or six weeks, the yellow fever will invariably occur. Now I have thus far considered inflammation as the result o'causes acting directly on the organs that are the seat of such disorder; that is, I have considered what we may call acciden- tal inflammations — inflammations that arise directly from causes immediately applied. But in many instances we can- not trace the application of any cause to the affected organ : this is the case with a great uumber of internal inflammations ; such are called spontaneous inflammations. By this we do not mean to assert, that the inflammation actually arises of itself, only that it takes place without an apparent adequate cause. We Bee in children inflammation of the brain, leading to effusion of fluid into the ventricles, or hydrocephalus; we see inflammation of the arachnoid coat and pia mater in the adult, producing various affections of the head, and, many times, mental derangement. Inflammation may occur in the liver or stomach—erysipelas may attack the face—the synovial membrane of a joint may become inflamed, ora joint generally. Thus inflammatory affections may occur either in internal or external organs, where we cannot trace the application to those organs of any causes capable of producing disease; hence we