DISORDER OF TIIE DIGESTIVE ORGANS. S5 work on the utility of purgative medicines, in which he recom- mends a treatment essentially similar to that which has been enforced by Mr. Abernethy. But he has taken the subject up in a practical point of view only; he has not entered into any pathological investigation, nor shown how an overloaded state of the alimentary canal takes place and causes diseases. He has shown how useful an active system of purging is in various diseases, and has particularly illustrated its efficacy in re- moving accumulations of faecal matter, and preventing their recurrence. In a neighbouring country (France), the attention of the medical public has been forcibly directed to this point by an individual of great talent, but who, perhaps, may have in some measure carried his views beyond what we should regard as just limits in respect to the share the digestive organs have in causing disease. I allude to Dr. Broussais, the author of the “ Physiological or Organic System of Medicine” in France. He refers to diseases of the mucous membrane of the stomach and intestines, a very great share of all the diseases that occur in the human body. At all events, in his writings we find a considerable mass of evidence, illustrating more particularly the active disturbance of the digestive organs, and this by the result of examinations after death in numerous cases. We do not enjoy here such advantageous opportunities of entering into this important business of pathological inquiry. I consider that the researches of Barlow, Abernethy, Hamilton, and Broussais, all tend to support each other. We cannot, perhaps, say that the opinions of any of these individuals are to be adopted to the full extent, but no doubt there is a great deal of truth in the statements of each, in as much as they arrive nearly at the same point, and this, too, by different modes of investigation. Their concurrence, so far as they go together, is a strong argument in proof of what they have de- duced, and of the accuracy of their views of disease, both prac- tical and pathological. [At the conclusion of the lecture, Mr. Lawrence adverted to the case of stone, which had been examined by Baron Heur- teloup, and made some comparative remarks on the process of lithotrity, and the operation of lithotomy. He observed, that the mere numerical statement of recoveries and deaths in a given number of cases, does not afford a true comparison between the two modes of proceeding j because lithotrity is only undertaken under the most favourable circumstances, while lithotomy is performed on all indiscriminately, conse- quently on many unfavourable cases.]