ITS PHENOMENA AND DIVISIONS. 59 factor}- criterion of the state of inflammation. In the case of serous membrane, we do not find the texture of the membrane -swelled under inflammation ; and, 1 believe, in many instances, twe are hardly able to say it is redder than natural. The arach- noid coat of the brain is frequently the seat of inflammation, but it exhibits no redness; the texture of the membrane is -swelled and rendered opaque, but it is by no means red. Wo -see the iris inflamed, and have no doubt of the existence of in- flammation, though we cannot discern it to be swelled, red, hot, or painful. In inflammation of the cornea, we see merely that tthere is interstitial deposition. Even considering- these charac- ters as the criterion of inflammation, they are only of impor- tance in external organs; for when we come to internal parts, we cannot apply this criterion. We cannot tell whether the liver or the lungs be swelled, red, hot, and painful. How can • we say whether or not the retina is in that condition ? So that these four circumstances are of general, but not of universal application. Inflammation, gentlemen, is by no means one and the same ; process under all circumstances; on the contrary, it varies very much. If you cut or scratch the finger, inflammation will be produced. Sometimes, without any injury, an inflammation takes ;place near to the nail, constituting what we call whitlow : the finger may be inflamed with the rest of the limb in erysipelas; lit may be the seat of chilblain, gout, or rheumatism. Here, i then, are six different states of the same part, all called in- ! fiammation. Inflammations, in the first place, differ in degree, that is, there may be more or lets of the disturbance. When there is more, the progress of the case is rapid; when there is less, it proceeds more slowly. This distinction is marked, generally, by the terms acute and chronic. Violence of symptoms, and i rapidity of progress, denote acute inflammation; mildness of ; symptoms and slowness of progress, chronic inflammation. Now you will not understand from this, that there are exactly two differences of degree, and that all inflammations must either be rapid or slow, so as to come under the one or the other head. These words only denote in a general way the difference; and, in point of fact, there is an infinite number of different degrees. You are often at a loss to determine whe- : ther you should assign a particular inflammation to tire head of the acute, or to that of the chronic state. Acute and chronic are not, in point of sense, exactly opposed to each other. The epithet acute denotes the violent state of symptoms, while the term chronic points out the duration of the complaint, so that the terms are not precisely contrary to each other. Acute is