VENEREAL DISEASE. 294 as if nothing had been the matter with her. Mr. Evans, sur- geon to some of the British forces, who has published a work on ulcers of the genitals, was present at the inspection of some of the public women in France, who were obliged to undergo examination by order of the police. In some instances he saw more than a hundred cases, and they presented very little dis- ease indeed; what existed was merely a slight discharge and excoriation ; at the same time the British soldiers, who had had intercourse with them, exhibited numerous instances of disease of the ordinary kind, which they only could have contracted from those very individuals. Again ; it has happened in mili- tary, and in civil life, that different individuals have had inter- course with one and the same woman, and it has been found that one has contracted gonorrhoea, another a sore on the pre- puce, whilst a third has escaped without any disease at all. We are, therefore, much in the dark respecting that primary point in the investigation of the disease. We do not really know whether one particular form of the disease propagates the same form in other individuals ; we are ignorant of the par- ticular circumstances under which each paiticular form arises. Under this uncertainty, it has been the opinion of many, that the diversities exhibited by the various symptoms of sy- philis, have their origin in circumstances belonging to the con- stitution of the individuals in whom they occur; that the par- ticular characters of the disease, in different individuals, arise from differences in the constitution—differences in the state of health at the time when the diseuse is contracted—differences in the treatment—differences in the management, both locally and generally. In favour of this view, there is a remarkable circumstance which has been mentioned by Dr. Fergusson. He has given a short paper on the state of the venereal disease in Portugal;—it is published in the fourth volume of the Medical and Chirurgical Transactions. He says that the venereal dis- ease in Portugal is extremely mild ; that the natives of that country are in the habit of treating it by vegetable decoctions and low diet; that they suffer little from it; that it seldom produces serious symptoms; that when it goes into a constitutional foitn, it wears itself out under this treatment, not interfering materially with the health. Thus he considers that the disease among the Portuguese has lost its virulent character; but he says that the British troops and officers had the venereal dis- ease in that country with the utmost severity ; that, in fact, a greater number of instances of loss of the penis occurred among them, in a short time, than he supposed could be presented by all the hospitals of the countty for a number of years. Yet the disease had arisen from the infection of the mild disease that I