BITES OF VENOMOUS SERPENTS. 251 hind its head, very like spectacles ; it is the coluber carinatus of Linnaeus. In the West Indies there is a serpent which is most generally observed to be yellowish or spotted, and which is called by the French “ Grande vipere fer-de-lance de la Mar- tinique.” In this country we have only one serpent possessing a venomous quality, and that is the viper, or adder, (for these two names are applied to one and the same animal, the coluber betas of Linnaeus. I believe the poison of the animals I have just now mentioned to you, the rattle-snake and the cobra di capello, acts most virulently ; that is, their poison acts the most rapidly upon the vital powers. A fowl, bitten by a serpent, dies in the space of half a minute. The bite of a rattle-snake has proved fatal to a dog in half an hour, but it has required the space of some hours to produce a fetal effect in the human subject; and I fancy it cannot be considered that the bite of these animals is invariably fetal in the human subject, for the quantity of venomous matter communicated by them is various. The bite of the rattle-snake has a different effect, if the animal have not bitten for some time previously, to what it has under other circumstances. Supposing the animal has been kept for some time, and has not bitten so as to exhaust any of its venom, it will then produce a greater effect when it does bite, than it would produce at other times. In the case of the poison of venomous serpents, the same conditions are necessary for its activity, that I have mentioned to you in instances of hydrophobia,—the poisonous fluid must be applied to a recent wound. The poison of the viper, or of any other of the serpent tribe, may be taken into the stomach with impunity. It may be applied, without injury, to the surface of the body. Thus the bite of a single viper will deprive a pigeon of life very speedily, and a single bite by no means exhausts the whole of the poison in the ex- cretory duct of the gland; but you may take the whole of the poison from ten vipers, moisten bread with it, give it to a pigeon, and it will produce no effect. Again, a student, who was assisting in an inquiry of this kind, took bread moistened with all the venom that could be procured from four large vipers, without its producing a bad effect. It is necessary, therefore, that the poison of serpents should be applied to a recent wound. No other mode of application to the human body can produce a deleterious effect. In the experiments, too, that have been made on animals, it has been sometimes found, that dogs wounded with lancets, on which the venomous matter has been placed, have suffered no injury ; while, if they were bitten by a serpent possessing the same species of venom, all the usual effects took place.