326 VENEREAL DISEASE ; is, of itself, originally of an inflammatory nature; but, in other cases, the sloughy state is observed from the very commence- ment. There is a high degree of constitutional disturbance under this form of change; there is a full and hard pulse, more partiealarly when it occurs in young, robust persons; a white tongue, and, in fact, the general symptoms that characterize high inflammatory fever. These are the principal varieties which we observe in the appearance and characters of primary venereal sores. 1 do not know that this enumeration includes all the forms of ulceration that may be observed; in fact, there are intermediate degrees, between them ; but all we have to do with respect to description, is to present you with an outline of the circumstances. We cannot, perhaps, embrace, in our account, the minute features of each particular gradation. It is important to observe tbeffestinction between syphilitic sores and other ulcerations or affections which are incidental to the same parts. If an ulceration take place on the external organs of generation of a healthy person, a few days after having had connexion with a suspicious character, we can have very little hesitation in ascribing the disease which is then pro- duced to the application of venereal poison, because, in ninety- nine cases out of a hundred, the disease unquestionably will be venereal. Persons are continually pestering us by asking, whether this sore or that sore is venereal or not. I am very much in the habit of telling them, I consider it comes from whoring, and if they had not been employed in’that which they ought not to have been doing, they would have had nothing the matter with them. As to the expressions true syphilitic, and non-syphilitic—true and bastard syphilis—these terms I have already told you I entirely discard. All sores that arise from sexual intercourse are, with me, venereal sores; and I have mentioned to you the various characters these assume under various circumstances. I regard any of these characters to be as much venereal as any other of them. I do not know that the character of syphilis belongs to one of them more than to another. Now the prepuce, both on its external and internal surface, is liable to an attack of inflammation, and the formation of minute lymphatic vesicles, which we call hespes praputialis. A little portion of it inflames, a few vesicles form on it, the fluid contained in them becomes purulent, it is discharged, and dries up on the surface. It is, I think, so decided in its character, that it can hardly be confounded with any venereal disease ; then the surface of any part of the external organs of genera- tion concerned in copulation, may be seriously abraded, or