PRIMARY SORES. 319 excoriation, or breach of surface, in order to produce that con- sequence of the affection which takes place when a healthy wo- man suckles a diseased child; but in the case of the reception of venereal poison through the lingers, we only see it take place where there has been some external wound, or breach of sur- face, front a previous cause ; at least 1 know of no instance within my own experience where a primary venereal sore has taken place on any part of the fingers or hand, when the cuticle has remained unbroken. But within no very long time I have seen four cases, in which the venereal poison has been absorbed through the medium of wounds on the finger or thumb. A gentleman called on me one day, saying he bad got a painful affection of the thumb, and that it bad arisen from a gnat-bite. He opened bis arm, and I found a very serious inflammation going on of the subcutaneous textures of the forearm and arm. He then uncovered the thumb, where I saw a nasty, foul sore, about the size of a shilling, in the situation of the first joint of the thumb, with considerable swelling and redness of the part. I asked him how this had happened. He said he had received a gnat-bite on the thumb, which had festered, and then, getting worse, the arm had inflamed to the extent to which I saw it. I looked at it attentively, and it appeared to me to be much more serious than any thing I had ever seen to arise from a gnat-bite. I told him I never saw such an effect produced by a gnat-bite, and that I thought something else must have taken place. I must observe, that he was a very free liver, and indulged much ‘ in the pleasures of the table, consequently he was an indivi- dual who might have suffered as much from the bite of a gnat as any person could have done; but this was certainly past any thing I had ever seen produced by such a cause; there was a very foul, nasty sore, with high inflammation of the limb, assuming very much the character of phlegmonous ery- sipelas both of the forearm and arm. He then said that some- thing else had occurred to him, which, however, he considered could have had nothing to do with the present state of his hand; in truth, that he had been dining with some friends in the city, and that on his return along the Strand, he had got into conversation with a damsel, and had been silly enough to put his hand under her petticoats, but that he had really done nothing else to her. When he got home, he said, he found that his hand smelled very badly, and he therefore immediately took means for cleansing it; he resorted to abundant ablution to get rid of the smell; that, in fact, from that time, the thumb had had something the matter with it, and that either from the gnat-bite, or something else, it had got worse and worse; in fact, it was very clear that a syphilitic poison had been ab-