WOUNDS RECEIVED IN DISSECTION. 257 the iujury had been received, that there must be matter there, and he very strongly urged the necessity of opening it to let out the matter. Although no matter was felt, a pretty deep in- cision was made into it, and a small drop of matter did actually flow out. A poultice was applied to the part, and he was greatly telieved. The puncture was made very deep, and when the limb was enveloped in the poultice, he lost about thirty or forty ouuces of blood without being aware of it. There seemed to be a considerable artery cut, and he was the better for it. However, the swelling of the fore-arm aud arm went on, and in the course of the day ou which the incision was made, aud between that and the following day, in consequence of the urgency of the symptoms, lie lost blood from the arm twice, and had an enormous quantity of leeches applied to the head, the arm, and fore-arm. Indeed the only relief he experienced was from the application of the leeches, and these he applied without counting them, merely taking a handful and laying them on, and after their removal laying on another handful, so that, in the space of four-and-twenty hours, there were about a couple of hundred leeches applied to the upper extremity. By these means the inflammatory action was pretty considerably reduced, and after the lapse of three or four days, he found himself exceedingly altered. At that time, and while he had a gentleman attending him almost constantly, (Dr. Gordon, of Finsbury Square), a particular change took place. He t^ame pallid in the countenance, cold in the extremities, and the action of the heart was so enfeebled that he appeared as though he were about to die. The limb became feeble and cold, and, under these symptoms, Dr. Gordon gave him a large quantity of opium, which relieved him ; he continued exhibiting opium until the symptoms were removed, and, in this way, under the employment of opium, he gradually recovered. Now, I can here see nothing more than the effect of local irritation, the production of very high inflammatory action in the constitution of an individual whose habit disposed him to it, while the i effect of depletion, in controlling that disturbance, is made very apparent; so that in a case of this kind, I conceive there can 1 be no reason for calling in the aid of a poison to account : for the effects I have detailed. We do not require the action of poison at all to explain the symptoms in this case. There are some other cases in which the local and general symptoms have beeu rather different; and it is in those parti- i cularly, that the ageucy of poison has been regarded as the true cause. There was a physician who lived in the neighbourhood of London, who examined a lady that had died of puerperal peritonitis at eight o'clock in the morning of the 28th of De- s