19(3 MECHANICAL INJURIES, WOUNDS, ETC. Thomson, he found that a layer of coagulated lymph was depo- sited on the side of a wound within four hours from the time of its formation. I have already had occasion to mention to you, that lymph has been effused and vessels have been in- jected into it, on an inflamed intestine, within four-and-twenty hours from the time of the occurrence of the inflammation. We may say, therefore, that organic union of divided parts may take place in twenty hours; at all events, if we allow eight-and-forty hours for the occurrence, we may safely assert, that parts can be united by organic union within that time. It appears, that all the soft parts of the body are susceptible of union by adhesion ; thus, in the case of a wound that ex- tends through the various textures, such as the skin, the cellular membrane, and the muscles, these can be united by the process of adhesion. With respect to the harder parts, they do not seem susceptible of this process. Bones, for example, do not unite by adhesion. I fancy that fibrous textures of the body do not unite by adhesion : at all events, there is one instance of this in which we have the clearest evidence to show, that a fibrous texture does not unite. I allude to the sclerotic coat of the eye, where we make a small puncture in thp operation for cataract. You see that that opening remains the same as when you made it, as long as the patient lives: no union ever takes place. Whether tendons or nerves unite by adhesion, are points which, perhaps, hitherto have not been completely settled. The effusion of coagulable lymph in the first instance, agglu- tinates the sides of the wound, and thus forms a kind of me- chanical union of the textures that have been divided. When this union has been organized, we find, after a certain space of time has elapsed, that the substance thus deposited is converted into a similar texture to those it unites ; that it partakes more or less of the nature of muscle, for example, if muscle has been divided ; of skin and of cellular membrane, if these have been divided ; yet it does not in all respects assume the original cha- racter of those tissues. I have already had occasion to observe to you, that the uniting substance is a something that will ena- ble the part to perform its functions, although you are able, by external observation, to distinguish between it and the original component parts of the texture. But in the case of the skin, muscle, and so forth, it is a something that will restore to the parts that were divided, the ability of performing their original operations. The union by adhesion will take place, not only when simple division has occurred, but also when the parts have been exten- sively denuded, and, in some cases, almost separated from the