77 SYMPATHETIC INFLAMMATION. neighbourhood of the local disease. He sent for me very early next morning; and when I saw him, I found the case to be one of the most violent erysipelatous inflammations of the skin I ever saw in my life. It extended from the shoulder down to the elbow, including the axilla. The skin was of the most vivid red, and thickly covered in every part by serous vesicles. And here, you observe, that no direct application of any cause capa- ble of exciting disease, was made to the part in which it took place; it was a sympathetic effect on the skin, produced by disturbance in the digestive organs, consequent on imprudent indulgence. I removed in this hospital a loose eartillage from the knee-joint of an adult. At the end of four or five days, the wound made into the joint, for letting out this foreign body, was completely healed by adhesion ; but unexpectedly, and in some way we could not account for, haemorrhage took place from the wound, a coagulum of blood formed in the cavity, se- parated the adhesion of the lips of the wound, so that the object of the operation—producing an immediate union into the joint —was frustrated. The consequence was, that inflammation and suppuration of the joint occurred ; the patient became ex- tremely feverish and ill, and he died. On opening the body, I found inflammation of the liver, with an immense number of depositions, partly of a purulent nature, and partly of a sub- stance like lymph, in masses from the size of a pea to that of a hazel nut, disseminated throughout the whole of the liver, and one such deposition in the substance of the brain. In a case that was under my care, of inflammation of a vein of the arm consequent ou blood-letting, that is, technically,phlebitis, great distension of one knee-joint, and of the thigh on that side, took place a short time before death. Ou examination after death, I found most violent inflammation of the synovial membrane, and immense deposition of matter between the fibres of the muscles on the anterior part of the same limb. In another case of phlebitis, I found inflammation of the pericardium, with a large quantity of sero-purulent fluid in its cavity; also a very singular occurrence—deposition of pus in the muscular sub- stance of one part of the heart. Occurrences of this<kind are by no means rare. There is a paper in the fourteenth volume of the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, written by the late Mr. Rose, entitled, “ Observa- tions on Depositions of Pus and Lymph, occurring in the Lungs and other Viscera, after injuries of different parts of the body,” containing a great many cases in which serious inflammatory affections, iu various internal organs, were found, in conjunc- tion with serious local injuries. Inflammatory affections of the peritoneum, pleura, and pericardium—of these three serous