143 TREATMENT OF ABSCESS. t tbe surface, and be discharged externally, in the space of a t couple of days or less. On the other hand you have instances i in which the suppuration will be of long duration, and in • which the matter may remain in the part where it has formed ! for weeks or months, without approaching the exterior of the ibody. Again; you will meet with every possible gradation : connecting these two extremes. To local symptoms, that precede formations of pus in chronic abscesses, are so slight, that they not unfrequcntly escape at- ‘ tention. The patient himself may not notice pven the existence of inflammation, and he often only becomes aware of it when ' the tumour containing the secretion is rendered obvious to the sight. A medical practitioner once brought to me a youth, his apprentice, wishing that I would examine a tumour upon his : thigh. To my utter astonishment I found a large abscess there. I inquired of my friend how long the youth had been ill, to which he replied he did not know, but he had only complained the day before. I laid open the abscess, and it contained more than a pint of matter. This youth, though in the medical pro- fession, had been following his avocations, and had not men- tioned that he had any thing the matter with him. Some time since, a gentleman consulted me for a tumour in his neck. He told me it had existed there for about two years. He was a stout, hearty man, with a good constitution. He said he had observed it, without haviug experienced any iuconvenience from it. On examination, being sure it contained fluid, I let it out, and found it was a chronic abscess, containing about ' three ounces of matter. In consequence of these perulent collections occurring in so insensible a manner, with previous inflammation of so slight a character, we are occasionally liable to mistake such collections for tumours of a solid kind, particularly if the cyst, in which the matter is deposited, should happen to be thick and firm in texture. A female was, some time ago,shown to me, in conse- quence of a tumour in her axilla. She had a tolerable-sized lump there, which felt quite firm ; she was about forty years of age, and her health was very good. I carefully scrutinized the part, and it appeared to me to be a solid tumour. After some interval I saw it again, and its situation then seemed to be nearly the same. She said it had never given her any pain— that it had slowly arisen. I thought it necessary that this tu- mour should be removed, and deeming it to be a sarcomatous growth, I recommended this treatment, and appointed a day at some distant time (as the patient lived in the country,) for performing the operation. Before putting the patient on the table, I again examined the swelling very particularly, and