ANTIMONY, MERCURY, DIET, ETC. 103 ; the system. When the case is not so serious, with tea a little It toasted bread or biscuit may be allowed, and ripe fruits or ;: roasted apples. Loss of blood, purging, and abstinence—these are the three .great means of reducing inflammation; but there are other !.auxiliary measures. In the first place, with respect to the increased heat of the surface of the body, one is naturally led to an attempt to reduce that; the heat and dryness of the skin ;;are circumstances very troublesome to the patient. We find : :tbat if perspiration comes on, the febrile affection of the system :.is lessened; and hence we attempt to imitate that natural course of events, and to relieve inflammation by administering .medicines that promote secretions from the skin. Nitre, and •the medicines which are called saline; the liquor ammoniae , acetatis, and alkaline salts neutralized with lemon-juice, or the . citric acid, have been called refrigerants, or cooling medicines, as they are supposed to take away some of this unnatural heat. But the most powerful medicine to act on the skin is • antimony, more especially two preparations of it, James’s : i powder and the tartrate of antimony, or emetic tartar, and of i s these two, the latter is certainly the most powerful. Emetic ! tartar does not merely act on the skin, but, according to the amount of its dose, either excites perspiration, nausea, or sick- ; ness, and purging. In all these points of view, therefore, it ■ must be regarded as a very powerful agent in combating in- flammation. If the tartarized antimony be given for the pur- pose of producing perspiration, a quarter of a grain every four hours will excite it, and keep up a state of nausea;—half a ; grain produces sickness. When it is thus given in sufficient doses, you will find the action of the venous and arterial system • greatly reduced by it, and perhaps there is no better mode of doing this, particularly when its use has been preceded by the ; more powerful means of bleeding,. The pulse is exceedingly reduced in number and force under the state of nausea,—in fact, so reduced, that the patient is brought, as we say, almost to death’s door. This is particularly seen in the case of per- sons who go on board ship; they are violently sick—what is • called sea-sickness—they lose all power, and lie as if they were ' dead. In this way, then, emetic tartar acts, by directly check- ing inflammatory action, and there are few individuals strong ■ enough to resist it if administered for a sufficient length of time. Of late, this medicine has been used in larger doses than we have been accustomed to give it in, more particularly by the Italian physicians, who have observed the powerful effects it has in combating inflammation; and they have accordingly