226 TETANUS. the arachnoid membrane of the spinal chord, but we can hardly suppose that they have been produced in the time within which tetanus has existed. If any particular state of the spinal chord produce this affection, we should then wish to know how the disturbance of that chord is produced : what is the circumstance which occasions the derangement ? Here we are at a loss; we are unable to point out, with any degree of clearness, in what the derangement of the spinal chord consists; nor can we show, in any definite manner, as far as onr examinations hi- therto have gone, any distinct or clear derangement of that part. It has been observed, that a state of costiveness precedes tetanic symptoms, and Mr. Abernethy has made this a particu- lar subject of inquiry; at least he has pointed out this ques- tion as one that should be held in view in the pathological con- sideration of the subject ; that is to say, he has made it our business to inquire, what is the condition of the digestive or- gans of the patient prior to the occurrence of the tetanic symp- toms,—between the receipt of the injury and the development of tetanus? Obviously, himself, beiug of opinion, that the in- jury, in the first place, produces derangement of the digestive organs ; that that deranged condition of the digestive organs disturbs the spinal chord, and, probably the whole system; and, further, perhaps, that this derangement of the spinal chord and system is the affection which constitutes tetanus. This seems a rational and probable conjecture as to the mode in which tetanus is produced. We must, however, observe, that this point of pathology is by no means made out; so that the elucidation of the mode in which tetanus occurs, and the exact situation of its origin, are points which remain for future in- quiry. Prognosis.—The prognosis is always of deep importance; though it is much less important in idiopathic than in sympa- thetic tetanus ; indeed, in many cases, idiopathic tetanus is cured, but it is rare, we may say very rare, that traumatic teta- nus is cured, that is, tetanus which arises from the infliction of wounds. It is to little purpose, therefore, to enumerate in- stances in which idiopathic tetanus has been cured, because we find that the same means which have been used in that description of the disease, do not produce the same benefit in cases of traumatic tetanus. The more acute the character of the affection, the greater the danger of the patient; that is, the more rapidly the symptoms are developed, and vice versa, the more gradual, the more chronic the symptoms are, the greater chance is there that the disease may be overcome. It was observed by Hippocrates, that if the patient survived the fourth day of the disease, there was a much greater chance