26 ON THE NATURE AND SEAT OF DISEASES. They treat the patient with stimulatives, in order to raise this supposed deficiency of vital function, and all the while the affection of the nerve is one of an inflammatory character, which is either more or less chronic. From the want of observation in the cases of fever has arisen the notion of delibility, or suppressed energy or diminished energy, of vital functions, and the stimulating treatment, as pursued in consequence of this view. The same may be said with respect to the functions of the chylopoietic viscera in indigestion, where all kinds of tonics and stimulants are poured into the stomach in order to raise what are supposed to be deficiencies in the vital energy of that part. It has been contended also that the fluids cannot be altered in their properties, except through the medium of some change in the solids. Now the fate of the fluid part of the body, witlr reference to disease, has has been very singular. At one period the explanation of disease turned entirely on changes that were supposed to take place in the fluids; and, at a subsequent time, it has been asserted that they have nothing to do in the produc. tion of disease. At an early period, when anatomy and phy- siology were but little known, the fluids were supposed to be subject, in tire living body, to putrefaction, fermentation, con- coction, acidity, alkalescence, to become thick and thin, and so on. The means of treatment were directed with the view of remedying such alterations. When anatomy and physiology, came to be investigated, and the changes that had taken place were observed after death, of course all these notions were at once put an end to, and from that time to the present the very term of humoral pathology, which includes this sort of expla- nation of diseases, has become a sort of by-word of contempt. It has been considered, that the states of the fluids can give no assistance in the explanation of diseases. Probably this is going too far. You will consider, that all the new materials enter the body in a fluid state—that they are all taken up iuto the system through the blood. When you consider the various kinds and quantities that enter the blood in this way, J think you cannot help supposing, that there must be considerable variations both in the quantity and in the composition of the blood, and that you cannot help admitting, that these variations may have considerable influence on the organs. Only com- pare, for instance, an individual in a state of health, with a plethora person on the one side, with a scorbutic sailor or a chlorotic female, on the other, and I think you will at once admit, that there may be differences in the state of blood, which may explain the condition of disease. The secretions of the body probably depend, in a great measure,