347 SECONDARY SYMPTOMS. need not expose our patient to the injurious effects which mer- cury is capable of producing, as we may lay it aside, and trust, at all eveuts, for a time, to the employment of other means. The second form of venereal disease described by Mr.Carmi- chael is, what he calls the papular venereal disease ; 1 should have mentioned to you before, that Mr. Carmichael character- izes the disease chiefly by the form which the eruption as- sumes; he considers the eruption as the circumstance most characteristic in the natural history of the affection; and wc certainly find that this is true in many other cases, as in small- pox, cow-pox, and so forth. He says, that the papular eruption follows either the superficial venereal disease, which is unat- tended with induration of the basis or elevated edge ; that it follows simple gonorrhoea, and that it also follows a primary affection which 1 have not yet mentioned to you, that is, an excoriation of the prepuce and glans, with puriform discharge. This is a kind of primary affection, with respect to which one is under some doubt whether it ought to be referred to gonorr- hoea or syphilis. VVe find, however, that occasionally the lin- ing of the prfepuce and covering of the glans penis becomes in- flamed, red, thickened, excoriated, superficially ulcerated, and that there is produced a thin, purulent, and generally strong- smelling discharge: this has sometimes been called gonorrhoea preputii—gonorrhoea of the prepuce; and with that affection we not uncommonly find an indurated venereal sore on the prepuce, at the reflection of the lining over the glans penis: at all events, we find an excoriation without being able to say that it is actually in a state of ulceration. Now these three forms of the primary venereal affection—the superficial sore without elevated edge or indurated basis, the gonorrhoea pre- putii, or the inflammation and excoriation of the prepuce and glans, with purulent discharge, and gonorrhoea properly so called; these three forms of the primary affection, according to the experience of Mr.' Carmichael, are very commonly followed by papular eruption of the skin, by inflammation of the mucous membrane of the fauces, with superficial ulceration, by parti- cularly severe pains of the joints and limbs, without swelling of the periosteum of the bones, or swelling of the joints them- selves, and considerable pains in the chest and back. The papular eruption is a tolerably acute inflammation of the skin : it consists of the formation of a number of pimples of a bright red colour ; that is, it consists of a number of minute patches of active inflammation of the skin ; and when these exist all over the body, you will not be surprised that they produce con. siderable febrile disturbance—that there is a full pulse, pain of the head, thirst, a white tongue, disturbance of the digestive