186 ULCERATION, of palsy, or some serious disease either in the chest or ab- domen. In the highest degree of that state of disturbance in a part, which constitutes inflammation of an ulcer, I have mentioned to you, that some parts of the ulcer will occasionally slough; you will have what is called a sloughing ulcer. If the anti- phlogistic treatment does not put a stop to this sloughing—if the part that has perished does not separate, or if there should be any thing like a disposition to extension, you will often find advantage from stimuli, such as the balsam of Peru, or the dilute nitric lotion ; and these applications are very useful in a case in which there is a kind of sloughing ulceration, which we may call herpetic, that comes on in the legs of old persons who have been free livers. A portion of the skin will slough, separate, very soon skin over afresh, slough again, and skin over again ; a succession of these will take place, the parts healing up very rapidly, and when the mortified skin has already been detached, the application of the balsam of Peru, or the dilute nitric acid lotion, or opium taken internally, when the pain is considerable, constitutes the best treatment in those cases of combined ulceration and mortification. The condition of ulcers which we call phagedenic, is most commonly seen as a form of syphilitic disease, but it is by no means confined to syphilitic disease. Phagedenic ulceration may occur under other circumstances; we see it frequently as the result of considerable inflammation; it occurs in the generative organs, particularly of the male, where clap or sores may have existed for some time. Where disease has been neglected, sores of this kind commonly terminate in mortifica- tion; part of the prepuce, or glans, mortifies, and the sore spreading, exhibits the particular case which we call phage- denic. Now, the word phagedena, which is derived from the Greek, means eating, and, in fact, the sore to which the word is applied exhibits that kind of surface which is very well described by it; it has the appearance of a regular eating away of the part without any attempt at granulation. There is an irregular eaten surface, generally of a yellowish, livid, or whitish appearance, with a little matter adhering to it, or there may sometimes be streaks of blood upon it. The margin of the surrounding skin is red and painful, and the process of destruc- tion in phagedenic ulceration is attended, generally, with con- siderable pain in the part. It is, of course, the first object in this case, to put a stop to the inflammation in the surrounding part; but although you adopt means for doing this, you often find that this ulcerative destruction continues, that the parts are destroyed very rapidly