177 ON REPRODUCTION. exception, perhaps, to this, is in the case of the long bones of the body, the shafts of which may perhaps be entirely repro- duced when they have perished in the case of necrosis; but I do not know any other case of any other part of the body, in which an entire organ or part is reproduced. We see very commonly, and very obviously, that if a piece of the finger is cut off, if it is separated at the last joint, or if any other part of the limb is removed, that it is not reproduced. In this respect man and the more complicated animals differ materially from those of a more simple structure. In the lower class of the animal kingdom, we find that the reproductive power extends to the restoration of an entire and complete organ. It is very well known, with respect to the crab and lobster, that one of their claws is reproduced when it has been removed ; that a new one sprouts out, and gets larger and larger, until there is an entire claw; and in the case of some of the lower animals, such as some of the molusca and the reptile tribe, even compli- cated organs, may be reproduced in this way. But this is not so with respect to human beings and the higher order of ani- mals : here no entire part can be restored. Parts that are di- vided can be reunited, and the parts constituting the union, though they do not exactly correspond to the original tissue, answer every requisite purpose. A divided muscle may have its ends united by a new substance, which we should easily recognise from the original substance of the muscle ; in a ten- don the same; but yet, iu each of these cases, the tendon and the muscle are capable of executing the same function as ori- ginally. Even a nerve can in this way be reunited, and have its functions restored. Therefore the breach produced by ulcer- ation can be filled up and repaired by a material which answers all the purposes, though it is not exactly like the original struc- ture. Any one could distinguish, by the appearances, a scar or cicatrix from the natural surface of the skin, but the surface that is thus formed answers the eud perfectly well. But al- though the breach from ulceration is filled up, and although that loss of substance on the surface of the body is renewed, you do not find that the same textures that have been de- stroyed on the surface of the body are reproduced ; for instance, if the cellular membrane between the skin and fascia is de- stroyed by ulceration, the skin is afterwards closely adherent to the fascia instead of being separated from it. If the cellular tissue and fascia be destroyed, then the skin will be closely attached to the muscles; and in the same way skin, or muscle, or both, become firmly attached to bone. So that it is only in a limited extent that this power of reproduction exists in the human body. N