TETANUS. 222 referred; it would seem, however, that the muscular system is that which is more immediately concerned. Tetanus.—A serious affection of the muscular and nervous systems, under the name ef tetanus, is observed as a remote consequence of local injury. The word tetanus, which is of Greek extraction, means tension, or contraction; and tetanus may be defined to be a state of spasm, or permanent contrac- tion of some part or the whole of the voluntary muscles. When we say permanent contraction, it must be understood to be used with some limit. The state of the voluntary muscles in a patient labouring' under tetanus, is, generally, that of spasm, or continued contraction; but there are occasional pa- roxysms of convulsions ; and there are states of occasional re- laxation of the muscles, and during sleep they are generally pretty much relaxed. We cannot, therefore, in such cases, say that the voluntary muscles are permanently contracted through the whole period that this affection lasts. The state may be considered permanent, wheu the intervals of even partial re- laxation are rare and distant. Tetanus may be either partial or general. When the muscles of the jaw alone are affected, the case is called trismus, or, in popular language, locked-jaw; and this latter term, locked- jaw, is used as a common phrase to denote tetanus, without meaning that the affection is confined to the muscles of the jaw. In common language, the word locked-jaw is used as a term equivalent with tetanus, although, strictly speaking, it is only applicable to cases in which the muscles of the jaw are involved. When the muscles of the back-part of the trunk are affected, so as to bend the body backwards, it is called opistho- tonos. Opisthotonos is a Greek word, implying a state of ten- sion, with incurvation of the trunk backwards. There is no case that can be designated by that term with strict propriety. There is not any instance in which a tetanic affection is con- fined simply to the trunk or back part of the body. It happens that the muscles of the back of the trunk are affected, and be- come tense ; and, so far, the trunk may be drawn backwards ; and to this extent it may be called opisthotonos. In other cases the body is drawn forwards, when the affection is termed emproslhotonos. There is a state in which the body may be drawn to either side, and that state is called pleurosthotonos. Now, it is common enough to see the case described under the term opisthotonos ; that is, the trunk bent backwards ; but I cannot say that it ever happened to me to see the body either bent forwards or to the side; therefore, I conceive that those cases called pleurosthotonos and emprosthotonos are rather imaginary than otherwise. Tetanus is either idiopathic, that