300 LECTURE XXIV. !Treatment of J enereal Diseases continued.—, Advantageous and Injurious Effects of Mer- cury—Diet. Employment of Mercury. — Mercury, gentlemen, is em- ployed in the treatment of syphilis, either simply, as a local application, or as a remedy capable of producing a powerful influence on the system at large; and, through that influence, of arresting the progress of, and ultimately curing the disease. Mercury, in its metallic form, is inert; it produces no effect on the human body. It may be swallowed in any quantity, and will do neither good nor harm. It exerts no influence except when it is combined with oxygen, or with some acid. Of the local applications, perhaps, the most common is what we call the black wash: I believe rather an unchemical com- bination of calomel with lime-water; the proportions are fifteen grains of calomel to an ounce of lime-water. This is used as a lotion, by dipping lint into it, and applying it to the venereal sores; and, perhaps, it is one of the best modes, if not the best, of applying mercury locally. There is another wash, called the yellow wash; that is, a combination of the oxymuriate of mercury, corrosive sublimate, with lime water; the proportions are a grain and a half or two grains of the oxymuriate to the ounce of lime-water. This is used in the same way. We have also the mercurial ointment, which, however, is not very frequently applied to venereal sores. We have the red preci- pitate ointment, the unguentum hydrargyri praecipitatum of the Pharmacopoeia, which is more commonly used. We have also the unguentum hydrargyri nitratum, which also is not very commonly applied to venereal sores. Another mode in which mercury is applied locally, is that of fumigation ; and, for this purpose, sulphuret of mercury is employed, the hy- drargyri sulphuretum rubrum, cinnabar, is the drug commonly used. The mode of employing mercury in this way is this. You raise the temperature of a piece of iron to that of a red heat, and throw a certain portion of the cinnabar upon it, generally half a drachm, or a drachm. You then place over the iron and cinnabar a copper funnel, which terminates in a pipe through which the fumes of the cinnabar arise; and in this way you may direct the fumes to the ulcerated surface.