146 ON SUPPURATION AND the outside of the pelvis. Here you see the effect of the barrier—the solid cyst which the abscess affords against the extension of the pus, for that matter which has been formed high up, will naturally gravitate downwards to the groin, or even a considerable way down the thigh, or to the knee ; hence arises the distinction, which has been made of an abscess of, and an abscess in, a part •, for a collection of matter that has thus descended gradually by its own weight into the thigh, can hardly be called an abscess of the thigh. This disposition of a chronic nbscess, and this want of active tendency to come to the surface of the body, render it necessary that we should discharge the contents by a surgical operation. There is hardly any limit to the size this kind of abscess may gain, if not opened; but there is a difficulty in respect to the manner of opening them. When you give vent to a collection of this sort, (or should a spontaneous aperture take place in it,) if you proceed as you would in opening a phlegmonous abscess, that is, make an incision and let the matter run out, then applying a poultice, the access of air into the abscess produces decom- position of the pus which it contains; the matter becomes foetid, the surface of the abscess is inflamed, and the secretion from its sides becomes altered—thin and stinking, exceedingly irritative to the portion which is in contact with it. The inflamed surface of the abscess is a source of sympathetic dis- turbance in other parts—in the alimentary canal, or in the vascular system; and thus arises fever of a peculiar kind. This constitutional disturbance xe-acts on the local mischief, and the aggravation of the local mischief again makes the constitutional disturbance worse, so that, between them both, the patient is very frequently destroyed. And here you should consider what I mentioned to you just now, that the remote, or predisposing cause of those abscesses is almost, or indeed in- variably, an unhealthy state of the constitution. You find them occurring, not in healthy individuals, but in those whose constitutions are naturally feeble ; more especially in such as exhibit what is technically called the scrofulous disposition. In these cases therefore, you have to contend both against the local disturbance, and against that bad state of constitution in which this local mischief has its origin. It is very desirable, then, to get rid of the continuance of an abscess of this kind, without incurring the risk of the inconve- nience 1 have just alluded to, and the particular mode of pro- ceeding pointed out by Mr. Abernethy was designed to avoid this risk. You will find, in fact, that by adopting the plan he has described, you may get rid of the contents of an abscess without incurring the danger of that local inflammation of the