ACTION OF MERCURY. 309 open. When mercury acts on the bowels, its action is less on the mouth. Locally the patient may employ lotions of alum, or the tincture of myrrh in the infusion of roses, in order to cleanse the mouth from those offensive secretions, and keep it in some degree comfortable. When the swelling has a little subsided, so that we can observe the extensive masses of sloughs called superficial sloughs, of the mucous membrane, we shall find that the painful state of those sloughs will be greatly diminished by touching them with the linimentum eruginis of the London pharmacopoeia. This is a very active remedy; it is of a poisonous nature, and therefore requires cautious use. Roll a piece of lint round a probe, dip it into the liniment, and thoroughly soak the parts I have mentioned with it; let it remain for a minute or two upon them, and then let the patient take some luke-warm water, and wash it out of his mouth; for if a small portion of this liniment were intro- duced iuto the stomach, it would produce rather a serious effect on that organ. A pretty strong solution of the nitrate of silver may be employed for the same purpose. In this way the effects produced by excessive salivation, will gradually subside, but 1 do not know of any mode of putting a stop to them quickly. Action of Mercury on the Bowel*.—Mercury very frequently acts unfavourably on the bowels, producing pain, griping, purging, tenesmus, and mucous evacuations; that is, it pro- duces generally a set of dysenteric symptoms. In order to put a stop to those symptoms, you must discontinue for a time, the administration of the remedy, and give the patient opium, the tinctura opii, in chalk mixture. A dose of rhubarb, and some of the pulvis creta cum opio, will diminish the irritation of the bowels, and relieve the patient. When you resume the use of mercury, you must cautiously admiuister opium with it, to prevent these effects. Very frequently, by the proper combina- tion of opium with it, you preclude these effects on the bowels, although, ifyou give mercury simply, the same symptoms would recur. Action of Mercury on the Skin.—Sometimes mercury pro- duces a peculiar inflammation of the skin, which has been called by Dr. Bateman eczema mercuriale—e-c z e-m-a—a Greek word, I believe, meaning to boil over. The skin be- comes inflamed in patches, and very minute vesicles form upon it, as thickly set together as possible. These, at first, are hardly visible, as their contents are transparent; but they burst, and discharge a matter which encrusts on the surface of the skin, the parts themselves remaining raw and tender, after the dis- charge has taken place. Considerable quantities of matter thus exude frem the skin, and becoming encrusted, renders the skin