MECHANICAL INJURIES, WOUNDS, ETC- 205 to tbe very lime of performing an important operation, and then submit him to it. You will be sure to have something wrong if you do that. In performing important operations, you must enjoin patients for some time before to abstain from eating animal food, and drinking fermented liquors ; you must take care to empty the alimentary canal; and in some instances, especially if the patient be robust, of a full habit, and young, it may be necessary to reduce him further by venesection, before the operation. Then during the performance of the operation, I have already hinted to you, it is best in general to let the blood flow freely from the vessels that have been divided in the course of the operation. Sometimes we see persons extremely anxious to stop the bleeding : they think it necessary to inter- rupt the operation for the purpose of stopping the bleeding vessels; but I acknowledge to you, that it has always seemed to me that cases do better where you let the blood flow freely, than where you adopt a contrary practice. I have seen many cases in which there have been considerable bleedings; in some where two or three pints of blood have been lost, parti- cularly when females have been operated upon, and I remem- ber no cases to have done better. Let the patient faint. In fact, syncope is the natural remedy for preventing bleeding. If the patient faints, the loss of blood is put an end to, for the bleeding stops. You take up all the vessels that may bleed after the operation is finished; you dress the wound lightly; you let the part be kept cool and open to the air; you apply damp cloths over it to reduce the temperature; you put the patient into a cool and airy apartment; you let him have only light bed-clothes, and you give him nothing but very light diet; such means are best calculated to prevent the occurrence of secondary bleeding. If you find that the bleeding does not so completely stop as you would wish, within a short period after the operation, you may remove the patient to bed without closing the wound. Let it remain open to the air, which is an effectual mode of stopping the bleeding. And you will find that union will take place much more favourably if you let the surface remain thus open till it gets even a little dry. Perhaps there is no case more favourable for union than where we find it so dry as to present what we call a slight glate upon it. You then bring together the edges of the wound, and you can unite them more favourably when the patient is laid in bed, for in fact if you unite the wound when the patient is lying on the operating-table, the removal of, and carrying him to bed, and placing him in the new position, very often alter tbe bearing of the strips of plaster so, that the union is thus by no means