275 SCROFULA. added, that, in a great number of scrofulous subjects, tonics are altogether inadmissible. There are many individuals la- bouring under affections of this kind who will not bear them in any shape, who seem to be rendered worse by the use of toDics" in whatever form, or under whatever circumstances they may be employed. 1 should have spoken to you, in the last lecture, of the im- portance, in cases of scrofula, of residence in pure air; in fact, this alone, in many cases, is capable of doing more towards improving that state of system on which scrofulous disease de- pends, than any thing we can do either by external applica- tions or internal remedies. It is vain, in many cases, to at- tempt to benefit disease of this kind while patients remain in large towns and crowded dwellings, and in confined situations. It is often the case, that as soon as they quit these, and get into pure country air, the disease we have ineffectually been attempting to cure will get well of itself. This is more parti- cularly seen in the inhabitants of large towns when they are removed to the sea-side; and it is a correct popular notion, that the sea air is of very great advantage in the treatment of this complaint. It cannot be supposed that the air of the sea side has any specific effect on the disease ; scrofula will exist in patients who have always resided there. Nevertheless, the advantage of the change, more particularly to those who have lived in large towns, from the bracing effects of the sea air, is very manifest. The effect of the change is so great, that many eases of the worst forms of scrofulous disease experience a marked alteration, indeed get well rapidly, without the admi- nistration of any external or internal remedies. There is an infirmary established, at Margate, I think, for the reception of scrofulous subjects; it is open during a part of the summer, that the poor may partake of its benefits; and I believe the practice of the institution is to apply nothing but cloths, dipped in salt-water. But we cannot ascribe any great virtue to this. I have, sometimes, been surprised to find persons, and even medical men, inclined to question the advantage of pure air, either in scrofulous or other diseases. The point seems to me to be so clear, and so unquestionable, that I am at a loss to un- derstand on what ground an opinion to the contrary can be founded. I have heard it sometimes said, in explanation, that air, when analysed, presents the same elements from whatever situation it may be taken. This, of course, one can readily admit, but, probably, there is something existing in the air be- yond the mere chemical admixture of those elements, that is capable of acting upon the health. I can only say, with re- spect to myself, that after being in London for some time, T 2