VENEREAL DISEASE. 298 regiment- They were stationed in London, and consequently had intercourse with all the lowest prostitutes of the town ; they therefore afforded him an ample number of cases. He determined to treat all the primary sores in that regiment by the common antiphlogistic means, and not to employ mercury in one single case of them. Let them be of the character de- noting the particular nature of the venereal disease, or of any other character, he determined they should be treated without any mercury. There is a paper in the eighth volume of the Medical and Chirurgical Transactions, containing the result of his experience in this way ; and after having followed this plan, for a space of, I think, above two years, he found that all primary syphilitic symptoms whatever, could be cured without the employment of mercury. Whether it was an indurated chancre, or a superficial sore ; whatever it was, he found that the ordinary antiphlogistic means, simple local applications, rest, and low diet, were sufficient to conduct those cases to cures ; and that, in fact, for that length of time he employed no mercury whatever. Secondly, in the treatment of the pri- mary symptoms of syphilitic affections, he says that in some instances they were not longer than if mercury had been em- ployed. He states, that perhaps there was a greater number of secondary affections than if mercury had been employed; but he says, those secondary symptoms were always mild, and that they very speedily gave way to simple means. Thus he esta- blished, on the clearest evidence, that mercury is not necessary. He completely overturned the notion of mercury being required, and shewed that the disease did not possess that supposed destructive character to which I alluded ; and I am of opinion that this is the most important step that has been made towards understanding the real nature of the disease since it was first knowu; and I should place the fact that has thus been esta- blished, first by Mr. Rose, in point of value, far beyond any of the speculations or views contained in the work of Mr. Hunter on the venereal disease. In consequence of the paper written by Mr. Rose, the non- mercurial treatment of the venereal disease has been very ex- tensively tried in the British army, and registers have been kept of the results of such treatment; so that, I believe, with the Army Medical Board, there are now registers showing the results of the treatment of venereal diseases in many thousands of cases, both with and without mercury, and thus affording a very ample means of comparing the value of those sorts of general treatment: and the result of the non-mercurial treat- ment very satisfactorily confirms the conclusion at which Mr. Rose arrived; namely, that mercury, although it might