206 SECONDARY INTENTION. so accurately effected. Whether in the case of a wound, or of a surgical operation, very light and simple diet is expedient, until the cure of the wound is accomplished. It is by no means proper, under such circumstances, that fermented li- quors should be at all allowed ; and, in general, you will find it much the best that the patient should not take any animal food till the wound is united. LECTURE XVII. Secondary Haemorrhage—Healing of Wounds by the Second Intention—Lacerated and Con- tused Wounds—Gun-shot Wounds—Ampu- tation—Nervous Symptoms consequent on Injuries. I spoke to you, Gentlemen, in the last Lecture, of the occur- rence of bleeding in wounds, and the conduct that is to be pursued when haemorrhage takes place. 1 also adverted to the occurrence of haemorrhage after a wound has been dressed, and at some distance of time from the infliction of the wouud. I believe I omitted to mention to you, on that occasion, what should be done when haemorrhage comes on in this way. Secondary Hemorrhage.—It is necessary to open the wound, to remove the coagula of blood, if any such have formed iu it, and to secure the vessel if it continues to bleed. The removal of the coagula, however, and the exposure of the surface of the wound, will very commonly, of themselves, be sufficient to stop the bleeding. In dressing a wound, if there be any bleeding of a slight kind still continuing from it, or if you suspect bleeding will afterwards occur, it is desirable to leave small intervals be- tween the strips of plaster, so as to let the bleeding oose out, and prevent it from coagulating in the wound. Thus you will often be saved the trouble of opening, the wound again, and the patient will be saved the pain which is inseparable from so doing. Secondary Intention.—I spoke to you in the last lecture of the uniou of wounds by adhesion, or by what is called union by the first intention. If the efforts you make to procure the union in this way should fail, then the object must be accont-