291 VENEREAL DISEASE. is unequivocal. The next question will be,—Is the poison equally conveyed by the matter formed in a bubo ? That 1 do not know. Further, the venereal infection is conveyed by the blood of the mother to the child in utero, especially when the mother labours under the secondary, or constitutional form of the dis- ease. Whether it is equally conveyed in the primary form of the disease I am not exactly aware. A question naturally arises, whether the female can receive the disease by connexion with a man who has secondary symptoms ? And this is a ques- tion rather difficult to solve, from the want of clear evidence on the point. When we come to question individuals upon the subject, the motives for concealment are so strong, in a case where the honour of the parties is so much concerned, that it is very difficult to obtain testimony on which our reliance cau be placed. I can only say, however, that I have seen some in- stances, where, from all the inquiries I could make, I was led to conclude that syphilis had been communicated in this way from husband to wife; that is, when the husband was labouring under constitutional symptoms, he had cohabited with his wife, and communicated to her the disease. I do not see any im- possibility in its being communicated in this way. The com- munication of it from the mother to the child in utero clearly shows that the blood of the mother becomes affected ; and if blood be capable of transmitting the disease, I do not see why the seminal secretion should not be equally capable of trans- mitting it; this is a point, however, about which we have no clear knowledge. We frequently meet with the expression, venereal poison, or virus, and we are naturally anxious to know what that poison, or virus, is. Now, the only explanation I could give of it would be this, that it is that state of the secretion of a sore, which renders it capable of producing the disease in another person; that it is that state of the blood in the mother which renders it capable of communicating the disease to the fcBtus in utero, but what that particular state is we are unable to de- scribe; we are only able to observe its effects ; that is, we have no kuowledge of any chemical changes or properties by which the matter of a sore of this kind, or by which the blood of a pregnant woman under such affections, differs from ordinary matter or ordinary blood. We are only conscious of the dit- ference from the effects. When, therefore, we read of the ve- nereal virus entering the constitution, or of its being expelled from the constitution, or of the constitution being impregnated, or of its lurking in the system, these are so many figurative expressions which have no precise meaning, 02