89 BLEEDING. .more easily will they become distended again. The continua- tion of inflammation, therefore, increases the difficulty of re- Kcovery, and the liability to relapse. Hence it happens that i organs that have once been inflamed much more easily become | ,so a second time; and the danger of a subsequent occurrence j of inflammation is in proportion to the degree of the disease j that occurred in the first instance, and to the length of time it . has been allowed to go on. Persons who conduct the business ! of life insurance are well aware of this fact. When a person wishes to insure his life, the insurers inquire, not only whether he is healthy at the time, but whether he at any previous time has had serious disease; and if they find that he has had such i disease, though he is healthy at the time, they very commonly ; refuse his insurance; they consider him to be an unsound i man. Fourthly, in the treatment of inflammation, we are not en- . tirely to overlook the immediate relief of the patient from a . condition of considerable suffering. In acute local inflamma- i tion, accompanied with high constitutional sympathy, this is a j circumstance by no means of trivial importance. There are . various active measures of a preliminary or auxiliary kind, j which are of general application, and which, though they do not immediately tend to reduce inflammation, place the patient : under a state favourable for the action of more direct means. ; In the first place, you must remove the cause of inflammation, ..provided it be of a nature to allow of such removal. If there ' be a foreign body in contact with the surface of the eye—if a j patient have suffered from the application of cold—if he have j suffered from insufficient clothing, or causes of that kind, these are circumstances you can remedy. You would place the in- flamed part in such a position as would be most favourable to the return of blood from it. In the case of the head, therefore, • you would have that elevated ; you would not allow it to lie low. In the case of inflammation of any part of tho lower ex- tremities, you would have them, at all events, placed in the Irorizontal position; you would have the part inflamed in a state of rest. The natural execution of the function which be- longs to the organ, would be a source of considerable excite- meut to it when under inflammation, therefore absolute repose is generally necessary ; for example, you would not allow a person to use an inflamed joint. If the eye were inflamed, you would not allow the patient to exert it. Supposing the head to be the seat of inflammation, you would not allow any mental exertion—you would not allow any attention to complicated matters, or to that which required intense study. General re- pose of the whole frame is equally demanded wherever an irn-