327 TREATMENT OF SORES. broken by exertion at the time. This is a circumstance that lakes place at the very time of coition, and it is an immediate effect; therefore you distinguish that, or any thing that occurs immediately afterwards, from that which does not take place until some days subsequeutly. There is a secretion natural to these parts, which occasionally accumulates with persons who neglect cleanliness, and which may be the source of irritation and ulceration. The prepuce, and, indeed, the whole penis, is sometimes liable to a kind of inflammation producing a scaly surface, like what is called psoriasis in other parts. There may be a redness, with a scaly state, which cracks and comes off, but that can hardly be mistaken for venereal disease. Treatment of Venereal Sores.—In the treatment of venereal sores the hrst question that occurs is, whether we should attempt to remove or get rid of the venereal poison in the very commencement of the disease by any process at all similar to that which is employed in the case of the other animal poisons* such as hydrophobia. Now, excision, or destruction of the parts by caustic has been recommended with this view. I believe excision is very little practised in venereal diseases; but, sometimes, on the very first appearance of the pustule or venereal sore, we apply lunar caustic, and this prevents it from making any progress. With respect to the treatment of the sloughing venereal sores, when you come to consider the high slate of inflammation of the parts, that they lose their vitality in conse- quence of it, when you consider the general circumstances attending the case, you can have no hesitation in saying that antiphlogistic treatment of the most active kind is necessary. This is no case at all for mercury. The employment of it would not only do no good, but would aggravate the mischief. It acce- lerates the gangrenous process; it increases the destruction of the part; it adds to all the symptoms. You should, therefore, take blood from the arm: perhaps take blood locally also; purge the patient, put him on low diet, and then administer sulphate of magnesia and the tartrate of antimony. In fact, employ the means that are calculated to reduce excessive action. Locally, apply soothing remedies, tepid fomentations, and warm poul- tices to the part. That is, employ all means, locally and generally, that are calculated to reduce excessive action; and in that way you will treat cases of sloughing chancres with the greatest efficacy. Now I have mentioned to you that in these cases you will often find inflammation of the prepuce with phimosis ; and that state of the parts aggravates all the mischief that would arise from the affection considered in other respects. The glans penis, if it be the seat of the chancre, is highly inflamed, and