ON MORTIFICATION. 157 method of treatment to be observed where mortification is threatened, or where it actually exists, is, first, to prevent its occurrence; secondly, to arrest its progress, or to combat par- ticular symptoms; thirdly, to favour the separation of the dead parts from the living, and, under circumstances where that is proper, to accomplish such separation by an operation. These are the general indications which the treatment of mortification presents. In considering the first, we should bear in mind the nature of the particular case of mortification. Antiphlogistic treat- ment will prevent the occurrence of mortification where it is likely to come on from acute inflammation. When a part is under the chance of mortifying in consequence of cold, a ju- dicious mode of restoring the temperature will be a good pre- ventive. So in each particular case the treatment calculated to prevent its occurrence is suggested from the cause that pro- duces it, which signifies, in fact, the particular nature of the affection. It is an important consideration, to determine the means by which the second indication can be accomplished—of prevent- ing the progress of the affection. Now, heretofore, mortifica- tion has been regarded much in the light of putrefaction—de- composition and decay of the part attacked; and in the attempts at finding out means by which its progress could be prevented-, investigation has been made to ascertain those substances which would put a stop to the progress of putrefaction in dead animal substances; and it has been argued, that the same means that would prevent the progress of putrefaction in dead animal matter, would equally prevent the progress of mortification in the living body. Hence the class of substances called antisep- tics ; that is, substances calculated to preveut putrefaction, have been principally relied upon in the treatment of external mortification. Alcohol, camphor, turpentine, bark—these are very well known to have the power of preventing that spon- taneous decay in dead animal substances, which would other- wise take place. Now you are well aware, however, that the change which occurs in mortification, is by no means to be considered as identical with putrefaction; and although these substances would retard putrefaction in the dead body, it by no means follows, they would prevent living parts, which are seriously disordered, from going into a state of mortification. With reference to arresting the progress of mortification, we want to discover, not what substance would preserve the part for a length of time when dead, but what will prevent the part, while still living, from losing its vitality and passing into a state of mortification. Now if you consider, that in a number