204' MECHANICAL INJURIES, WOUNDS, ETC. You will see that most extensive wounds will unite very rapidly, and very favourably, after operations in which large quantities of blood have been lost, so that you need not be alarmed at patients bleeding freely in cases of operations. Those cases do so much better afterwards, that I think it is advisable to let the blood flow freely during the course of the operation. It has been observed many times on the field of battle, that after important engagements, where there have been numbers wounded, and where perhaps two or three days have, elapsed before the field of battle has been sufficiently searched so as to discover all those who had been wounded, that there have been instances of persons remaining two, three, or four days, without any attention at all having been paid to them, or their having taken anything, and to the surprise some- times of those who have witnessed the fact, they have actually done remarkably well; no doubt much better than if they had had a great deal of care taken of them, and been well stuffed. If there has been haemorrhage from wounds you will let the bleeding stop before you attempt to unite the edges, and with a soft sponge cleanse the edges from coegula, before you bring the sides together. Large vessels, or even small vessels that bleed freely, must be secured. Sponging the wound with cold water, and free exposure of the surface to the air, will stop the bleeding; and when all bleeding has ceased, you bring the sides of the wound together. After the patient has gone to bed, the circulation recovers. Faintness and exposure to air, may have stopped the bleeding, but when the part is covered up, when the patient becomes warm again, and more particu- larly if a good deal of covering has been put upon the wound, the patient being pretty warmly covered over with clothes, bleeding will, not very uncommonly, return ; secondary bleed- ing will take place, and this occurs some time from the period of the patient’s being put to bed. The blood that is shed will partly escape at the intervals of the strappings; when it re- mains in the wound, it coagulates, distends the parts, and gives the patient great pain. Now there is so much suffering pro- duced by these secondary bleedings, and so much alarm occa- sioned by them to the patient and friends, that it is worth your while to take all possible care to prevent their occurrence; and they may also be very inconvenient to the surgeon, as they may occasion him to be sent for at a moment when it may not be possible for him to attend. The secondary haemorrhage will be most effectually prevented by your adopting proper means to prepare the patient for the operation. You would not think of taking a patient, of full habit of body, eatiDg and drinking up