263 SCROFULA. disease; and, secondly, to denote that peculiarity of constitu- tion which is generally original or connate, that is, existing at the time of birth. In this sense the word scrofula is used sy- nonymously with the term scrofulous constitution, and it is this we allude to when speaking of scrofula existing in a family. The word scrofula is said to be derived from scrof'a, which is the Latin for sow, though we cannot see any particular reason why the term applied to this particular class of disease should have been derived from such a source. The term struma is equivalent to scrofula ; the two are used indifferently ; and, in popular language, these diseases are de- nominated “ king’s evil,” or simply the evil, from au opinion formerly prevalent, and, indeed, not very long obsolete, that the touch of a royal personage would cure it. We cannot draw a very marked line of distinction between common and scrofulous disease. There is an insensible transi- tion from the one to the other, as in all other cases of disease. The forms of disease are the same in each; the difference is in certain modifications. Scrofulous inflammation is less active and less rapid in its progress than common inflammation. The characters of scrofulous inflammation are less marked ; the firm swelling, the bright-red colour, and the acute pain, which belong to phlegmonous, are wanting in scrofulous inflamma- tion ; neither does the latter exert such powerful sympathetic influences as we observe excited in the phlegmonous inflamma- tion. Yet, in subjects that appear to be scrofulous, we often find inflammation existing, with all its characters pretty strongly marked ; in fact, we see cases which, so far as the red- ness and swelling go, we should be inclined to call cases of com- mon inflammation. But when suppuration occurs in scrofu- lous inflammation, the matter does not so readily and quickly make its way to the surface. We do not find the collection of matter pointing, on its arrival at the surface, as in phlegmo- nous inflammation. We find that the skin becomes exten- sively detached in the situation where the matter approaches the surface; that it is rendered very thin, and, finally, that a small opening takes place in that thin part. But the matter which is discharged from this opening is very different from that which is produced in phlegmonous inflammation. It is rather a mucous than a purulent fluid ; at least it is very thin, and is very commonly flaky and curdy; the flakes are mixed with the thin fluid. Indeed, these collections of fluid generally bear the character more of chronic abscess than acute, and evince the slowness and tardiness in reaching the surface that characterise abscesses of that kind. Scrofulous inflammation