SECONDARY SYMPTOMS. 349 hibiting phagedenic ulceration, more particularly at the back part of the pharynx, and where there are very troublesome and obstinate affections of the bones and of the joints. These affec- tions, both primary and secondary, are attended with very con- siderable pain, and, generally speaking, the sufferings through- out these affections are very considerable; so much so as to wear out the strength of the patient, and very seriously debili- tate the constitution. Hence it happens that, inasmuch as these affections show great tendency to relapse—inasmuch as they occur again and again—inasmuch as they present some of the worst cases in which the powers of the system are most reduced, we see the greatest difficulty in conducting the patient to a cure. Examples of this kind of disease, I have already intimated to you, show, generally, thaffmercury is not a proper remedy in cases of phagedenic affections •, that the general em- ployment of it usually exasperates the disease, whether in its primary, or in its secondary form; therefore, we are not to think of the employment of mercury carried to the state of affecting the system generally. I think there can be no doubt that the prejudices of many who are opposed to the use of mer- cury, have probably arisen, in a great measure, from the effect of the injudicious use of it, in cases of this kind. Under the notion that mercury was a specific for syphilis, it has no doubt been exhibited in phagedenic, as well as in other forms of the disease. Long courses of it have been used in the phagedenic form, because the symptoms would not yield, and have been rather exasperated by the remedy. The symptoms have oc- curred again and again; -mercury has been bad recourse to as often, and thus, by the serious nature of the disease, and partly by the injudicious use of this powerful remedy, patients have been brought into a state of great weakness, and no doubt, in many instances, their lives have been lost in consequence. In the phagedenic form of the venereal disease, we generally have recourse to the employment of narcotics, for the sake of soothing the severe pain which accompanies the disease. We use couium, hyosciamus, opium, and Dover’s powder; but when thesuffering is very considerable, I believe the general experience of the profession is, that opium is the ouly remedy of this kind on wjiich we can confidently rely, so that we are generally obliged to resort to the employment of opium; and when we use it in cases of this kind, I think we shall find it necessary, not merely to exhibit a single dose at bed-time, but to employ it at re- gular intervals, so as to keep up the effect on the system. A grain of the crude opium, or five grains of the pilula saponis cum opio, may be exhibited every eight or six, or, in very bad cases, four hours. In instances where we do