INFLAMMATION ; 120 the contents of the alimentary canal escape through such open- ings into the abdomen. Now several writers who have described gastric or bilious fevers, have laid it down as a rule of practice, that our attention should be directed simply to the state of the digestive organs; that calomel should be administered combined with or followed by purgatives ; and that loss of blood should be avoided ; that the latter measure will be injurious; and that, in all cases having the bilious character well marked, you should not think of bleeding. I cannot, for my own part, at all agree with that view. There is a great proportion of cases of this kind, in which the disturbance of the digestive organs will be most speedily set right by the loss of blood, in which you would spend a long time in the administration of calomel and ape- rients without recovery from the disorder, and in which vene- section will, perhaps, set all right very speedily. Certainly these cases may not require so active an employment of the lancet as those that come under the first definition, where the sanguiferous system is principally disordered, but the use of the lancet is by no means to be omitted in them. The exhibition of an emetic, when the tongue is foul and indicating an un- healthy condition of the stomach or alimentary canal, is often advantageous. Now Broussais holds quite a contrary opinion, as to purga- tives, from that which 1 have mentioned; he states, that the administration of purgatives, in cases where any thing like what he considers a state of inflammation of the mucous mem- brane of the stomach and intestines exists, is the worst of all possible practices ; in fact, he completely exhausts the vocabu- lary of abuse against all persons who purge their patients in such cases; he says, it increases the irritation of the mucous membrane, and that it produces these ulcerations. I think we may agree with him, that if considerable pain exists about the alimentary canal, we should prefer taking blood from such pa- tients before we commence the use of purgative medicines; but I must say, most distinctly, that I have in no instance seen those injurious effects he talks of, produced from the use of purgatives; and I do consider that there is not a particle of evidence to show, that ulceration of the mucous membrane is produced by the administration of purgatives. 1 happened to see a fever case which terminated fatally, where the head was principally affected, and where, after early depletion had been practised, purgative medicines were administered very freely throughout the whole of the case. I think the patient did not die for about a fortnight from the commencement of the disease.