215 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. importance is the seat of injury, and where the injury isv ery considerable, you must have recourse to them. Such, then, are the means that you should employ in gun shot wounds. But there are certain proceedings which it is equally expedient for you not to adopt. In the first place, you are by no means to consider it necessary to apply bandages. You should not apply a bandage after a gun-shot wound, unless there is some particular purpose to be answered by it. You may expect in- flammation and subsequent swelling as the result of such a wound, and the probability of these renders the application of bandages very objectionable. It was formerly directed that sponges or lint, or what some surgeons have called tents, should be introduced into the wounds, to keep them open, and afford a free discharge in the subsequent progress of the wound. This is not at all necessary. Again ; it has been advised to make incisions at the entrance and exit of the bullet, to pre- vent the occurrence of tension, or in order to prevent confine- ment of the matter, when the period of its discharge arises. Generally speaking, this may be regarded as unnecessary. If you adopt the means that are best calculated to prevent or allay the inflammation, no tension will take place in the part, and, consequently, those incisions are without any object. If there should be any tension, and considerable inflammation take place—if sloughs, or any matter, should be confined, it will then be time enough to make the incisions necessary for the discharge. After a few days, the surface of the wound will begin to dis- charge, and be sloughy. There is so much bruising in gun-shot wounds, that the surface generally perishes, and a slough, more or less thick, usually separates from the whole track of the wound; this process generally commences four or five days after the infliction of the wound. This is a period of danger, in consequence of the risk, in many instances, of secondary haemorrhage. If the track of the wound slough, and that go very near to vessels of importance, those vessels may be in- cluded in the sloughing process ; and when a portion of a vessel comes away, you may expect free bleeding to take place. Thus, in injuries where no haemorrhage has occurred immediately on the infliction of the wound, very serious hasmorrhage will take place at the period I am now mentioning. At such a time the patient should be very carefully watched. In any case in which the track of the wound goes near to a vessel, it is important that you should most carefully attend to it at this time. Have tourniquets at hand, and instruct the attendant to pay particular attention to the patient. The healing of the wound must be accomplished by the process of granulation;