MECHANICAL INJURIES, WOUNDS, ETC. 203 where I found it necessary to have recourse to the uninterrupted suture, and where it answered perfectly well. 1 had occasion to go some way out of town to see a case, and afterwards, when I was dining in a neighbouring house, the medical gentleman who had asked me to see the case, sent for me again in great haste, saying, that a dreadful accident had just happened to a boy who had been bitten by a pig. It was a large boar, which had used his tusks without mercy. He had bitten the boy through the abdomen, and made an opening, into which I could have laid all my fingers. Protruding through this open- ing was a part of the stomach, a large portion of omentum, and a considerable quantity of the intestines. The boy had just taken a good dinner, and the stomach was full. On pressing it, I found the lumps of food hard within it. With some trou- ble I succeeded in putting these parts back into the abdomen ; but it was very obvious, that if any degree of tension or of swelling of the parts occurred, they would immediately come out again, so that it would be to no purpose whatever to think of uniting the wound by adhesive plaster, I therefore considered the only means to be that of the uninterrupted suture; I ac- cordingly sewed the wound from one end to the other, embrac- ing the muscles and the whole of the texture in the stitches, just as you would sew up the opening you make in an abdomen you open after death. This of course completely prevented further protrusion; and other means suitable to such a case being employed calculated to prevent inflammation, the case did perfectly well, and the boy recovered very rapidly. I mentioned two other modes of approximating the sides of a wound,—bandage and position; we very seldom trust to bandage alone for uniting wounds, although there might by possibility be circumstances under which it might be used with great advantage, without any other means. With respect to position, the necessity of attending to it is so very obvious that it is hardly necessary to notice it. Ifyou cut the thigh across, and bend the thigh, the wound will gape, whereas if you extend the thigh, the edges will remain toge- ther almost without any visible opening. So with respect to wounds about the throat and in some other parts, you will often find that position will accomplish what you may want. Position should always therefore be attended to. Whatever means you adopt, you will find it necessary to keep the wound perfectly at rest, and, in fact, to enjoin rest of the body generally, in all cases of serious wounds of any of the important parts. You will place the patient on low diet, and keep the bowels clear by opening medicine ; these are means calculated to prevent the occurrence of inflammation.