ON GRANULATION. 174 this hospital, in whom a considerable flap of the scalp had been detached by an accident, it was necessary to apply poultices to the part, in consequence of the injury which the surfaces had received; and, after a time, under the application of poul- tices and the other means of treatment, the injured surfaces became clean; they formed regular and granulating surfaces. There was a flap of scalp, the internal surface of which was regularly granulated, and a corresponding granulating surface on the skull, on which the flap could be applied. The flap was applied in exact apposition with the granulating surface of the skull, and in twenty-four hours after the flap had been placed there, it stuck “ as close as wax,” as we say; the ad- hesion of the granulations, the union and inosculation of the vessels in that time, became quite complete. We have auother example in which opposed granulating surfaces become united in the instances of some accidents which happen to the eye. When substances, such as lime, are thrown into the eye, if they affect both the eyelids and the globe of-the eye, and pro- duce ulceration, you have the granulating surface of the eyelid in contact with the granulating surface of the globe; and the disposition to unite is so great, that you cannot, by any means you can employ, prevent the adhesion of the two—you cannot prevent the accretion. This has produced the term symble- pharon, from the Greek, meaning an accretion of the eye and the eyelid. I have seen this happen where great pains have been taken to keep the parts from adhering, for frequently it is attended with very serious consequences, more particularly if the eyelid is united with the cornea, it is attended with the loss of sight, and I have found it impossible to prevent the globe of the eye and the eye-lid inosculating in this unfortunate way. The power of forming granulations has been supposed to be a property pecular to cellular substance. It takes place, as I have mentioned to you, in almost all parts of the body, and you will, therefore, at first doubt whether it can be considered as a property peculiarly belonging to the cellular tissue. But you must recollect that cellular tissue enters into all parts of the body. It is the kind of basis or ground-work of the whole structure. It would be difficult to determine in each case whether granulation is owing to the cellular tissue, which enters into any particular part, or whether the particular sub- stance of the part or organ itself, such us the fibres of muscles, have any share in forming the granulations. We find, how- ever, that granulations are always most abundant where cel- lular tissue is the greatest. Thus in wounds where the limbs are affected, or in wounds produced by burns, we find that