22 ON THE NATURE AND SEAT OF DISEASES The changes which the organs may undergo differ in degree. They may be so considerable as to be visible after death, or there may be an alteration merely affecting the living condi- tion of the part, and not leaving behind it any ^race discovera- ble after death. I do not believe that a function can be im- paired while the organ remains in a perfectly regular and healthy state; for, in fact, what are the functions of the body ? Merely the results of the exercise of the organs. The functions are the organs themselves in a state of active exertion ; the organs and the functions are causes and effects. Perfect func- tions imply natural or healthy organs ; imperfect or irregular functions, suppose disordered organs. To say that the functions are disordered without arty change in the organs themselves, would be to say that an effect has taken place without a cause. We come back, then, to the point just mentioned, viz. that in considering the changes that may take place in the organs of the body, we must divide them, first, into those serious changes which are visible by examination after death; and, secondly, into those slighter changes which affect merely the living condition of the parts, and are not ascertainable after death. The living condition of any organ which is necessary for the regular execution of its functiou, comprises not only the structure as we see it after death, but also the various in- ternal movements which belong to a part in a healthy living condition. It includes also a healthy state of all the fluids, whether circulating or at rest; a regular supply of new mate- rials, a regular removal of the old parts, the influence of the nervous system, and, in many cases, the sympathetic opera- tion of other organs. Now nearly the whole of these latter circumstances elude our observation; we have no means of ascertaining them; sometimes we see how organs are affected by the kind of changes I have just now alluded to. The func- tion of the brain, for example, will be suspended ; sensation and voluntary motion will be at once put a stop to, when the action of the heart is suddenly stopped, as in syncope ; or when the function of the lungs is interrupted, as in suffocation ; yet, if we examine the brain, we do not find any change in its structure. But what happens if the heart stops its action? Why, no more blood is sent to the brain—it no longer conti- nues to furnish that supply of blood which is one of the neces- sary conditions to the healthy influence of the brain over tire other parts of the body. In consequence of the supply of blood being thus suspended when the heart stops its action, the brain no longer exercises its influence, and sensation and volition are at an end. When the functions of the lungs are impeded, the blood no longer undergoes that change front venous to arte-