185 ULCERATION : flammation docs not go so far as to produce those serious effects, ;a slighter degree of inflammation frequently keeps up ulcera- tion, and prevents the institution of the restorative process, especially in young persons of plethoric habits, and free livers. Again, where extensive ulceration has proceeded in the lower textremity, and where it is going on favourably towards a cure, .the favourable progress will frequently be arrested, and the sore ■ will again spread, if we do not pay attention to and regulate the diet of the patient. If we allow him a full diet of animal food, and let him use fermented liquors ; if we neglect paying atten- ; tion to the state of the stomach and bowels, we shall find that under such circumstances the patient will perhaps complain of : feeling himself uncomfortable ; he will tell you that he feels a headach ; yet on looking at the sore superficially, we do not observe much the matter with it. But observing more particu- larly, we see the granulations perhaps giving way nt a few .points; that they look yellowish ; and if you examine the limb a little more attentively still, perhaps you will find that an un- : natural degree of heat exists in it. Under such circumstances ■you will often find it of great service to take a little blood from 'the arm, and at the same time reduce the diet. I may mention, generally, that in the treatment of ulcers, such as require that the patient should be confined to his chant- : ber though not to bed, it may be necessary that he should be on what we call a sick diet. It is totally improper to let him 1 be living on animal food and fermented liquors. If you allow i that, it will frustrate all the attempts that are made locally for the cure of the ulcer. A strange notion exists in the minds of medical nreu, that where they see a sore which is dis- charging, it is necessary to give uutritious diet, and allow wine and so forth, to support the system under that discharge, when in fact the evil probably proceeds from an already over-full state of the constitution. This is a most injudicious way of treating such cases. On the contrary, you will very frequently find it necessary to take more blood, and to reduce the diet still further, in the progress of affections of this kind. I should mention also to you, that when large ulcers are healing very rapidly, it is necessary to pay great attention to the same points, in order to prevent the occurrence of other serious mischief. When an active disease of this kind, in any part of the body, is put a stop to, unless great attention is paid to all the points I have mentioned, there is much reason to apprehend that some other parts of the frame will become affected; and I have known many instances, under such cir- cumstances, where persons have been allowed u full diet, that the healing of the ulcer has been speedily followed by an attack