TREATMENT OF ABSCESS. 139 one is almost surprised to find in works published even in the present day, notions which seem to favour some opinions of that sort. I read only a day or two ago, of matter approaching the surface under the process of the “ erosion ” of the part, —in that way removing the surface; and that, too, in an ar- ticle that was in other respects extremely well written. Another case in which collections of matter should be opened is, where they are produced by the introduction into the cellu- lar membrane of any irritating fluid, such as the effusion of urine or fecal matter. The only way to limit the mischief which will be produced by such directly irritative causes, is to make free and early openings. When matter forms in parts which are of great importance to life, in consequence of their functions, such as in suppuration about the fauces, at the en- trance of the pharynx—suppuration about the larynx—any formation of matter that presses either upon the trachea or oesophagus—all these should be opened as early as possible. And this, I believe, will nearly conclude the enumeration of the cases in which it is important to open abscesses early—in which it is important to anticipate the process of nature, in bringing the abscess to an external discharge much sooner than it would be brought, if it were left to its natural course. In many of the cases I have now alluded to, it may be ne- cessary, at the same time that the opening is made into the ab- scess, to employ such antiphlogistic treatment as shall be cal- culated to limit the inflammation, which may be supposed still to exist in a considerable degree. In any deep-seated forma- tion of matter which you open in this way, you may, perhaps, apply leeches freely to the part, or even sometimes take blood from the arm, though you make an opening to discharge the matter. The opening of the abscess is not at all a reason why you should not employ antiphlogistic means. Thus if you have an abscess in the hand, and open it, you may very pro- bably find it necessary, as I have said, in consequence of the swelling and redness, to take hlood from that arm. You may combine the two circumstances—open the abscess quickly, in order to limit the extent of the matter, and employ antipho- gistic treatment, in order to prevent the recurrence of inflam- mation.