134 ON SUPPURATION AND a view of reducing inflammation. There is often very con- siderable inflammation existing, a great deal of hardness around, and redness of the part, though matter has formed at one point; hence we often continue with advantage the application of leeches, for instance, and the general means calculated to lessen inflammation, such treatment being likely, if the case admits of it, to favour the dispersion of matter by absorption’. When pus has formed, we may leave the progress of the case to nature, and allow the process to go on, which I have just described to you, keeping off all those causes that would be likely, either locally or generally, to disturb such natural pro- cess. Thus, we should keep the part at rest, keep it covered with soft poultices, place the patient on low diet, and pay attention to general health. In that way we may allow the abscess to go through its natural course, to break, to discharge of itself, and to heal up under a course of simple dressing. Fre- quently, however, we find it necessary to discharge the matter by an artificial opening, and different modes have been taken for accomplishing that purpose. Thus, abscesses have been opened by seton, by caustic, by puncture, by incision. In the discharge of an abscess by. seton, a needle containing thread, is passed through the cavity from side to side, and the thread is left in the opening thus made, allowing the matter, by these means, gradually to find its way out. There is no kind of advantage belonging to this mode of evacuating an abscess. In phlegmonous abscess it is obviously inadmissible, on account of the irritation it produces, and, in fact, so destitute of ad- vantage is it, in any way of viewing it, that it is completely abandoned. In the mode of opening an abscess by caustic, the prominent, or pointing part, that is, the thin part of the skin, is rubbed over with pure potash; and the slough formed by it is allowed to separate or drop off, and the matter is then discharged ; or in the slough thus formed, an opening is made with the knife, and the matter is let out in that way. This is a kind of proceeding which is not generally applicable. Per- haps the only case in which caustic can be advantageously- used in opening abscesses, is in instances of bubo, where the skin is become very thin, when it has been considerably de- tached from its subjacent parts, and where, consequently, a portion is likely to lose its vitality. 1 should have mentioned, in speaking of the nature and formation of abscesses, that when the skin has been rendeied thin, it not unfrequently happens that the part sloughs, and the matter escapes in consequence of this natural process. Generally, when we attempt to discharge the contents of an abscess, we do it by the direct means of puncture or incision.