SCROFULA. 276 twenty hours’ residence in the country makes me feel altogether a different man ; I feel so manifest an accession of health that I cannot doubt the effect, and I have so often witnessed the advantages produced on the patients labouring under disease, simply by the change of air, that I have no hesitation in as- cribing great efficacy to it. Some time ago I had an oppor- tunity of seeing, in a family with which I was acquainted, the most marked effects thus produced ; the circumstances of that case were sufficiently striking to induce me to mention them to you. The family consisted of a gentleman and his wife, both of whom were very healthy, and nine or ten children, who had lived for a great number of years in the neighbourhood of London, towards the northern part, but not exactly in town ; the whole family had invariably enjoyed good health. There were marks about the children that led one to suppose they might possibly be the subjects of strumous disease, yet they had never suffered from it, and, I believe, the whole family had contributed very little to the support of our profession. The eldest son had once exhibited appearances of strumous glands of the neck, and when he got a little older he contracted the venereal disease, got a bubo, the cure of which was very trou- blesome, and gave the enlarged glands of the neck the oppor- tunity of evincing the disposition of the family. Now it hap- pened that the family was induced, by circumstances, to leave the neighbourhood in which they were living, and to take up their abode in London, where the place of residence was close and confined. Within two years from that time a most re. markable change took place in the family. First, a child, three years of age, died; it had been previously well and healthy, but became affected with strumous ophthalmia, inflammation of the eye-lids, soon 'after the change of residence. Indeed, it suffered from an undefined indisposition, which led one some- times to refer the seat of disease to the head, at another time to the chest, and sometimes to the abdomen. At last it died of disease of the chest, and, on examination, I found tubercles of the lungs and disease of the mesenteric glands. Another child died, at the age of six months. The eldest daughter of the family, a remarkably fine and beautiful young woman, seventeen or eighteen years of age, began to evince symptoms of disease about the chest, soon after the family removed into town, and that ended in consumption, of which she died; and the father, who lived veiy carefully, had a very severe inflam- matory attack of the bowels. All these events took place within the space of about two years, though during the whole period of their residence in the neighbourhood of London, where they had had nine children, nothing of the same kind