DIET—SALIVATION. 307 „keep the patient in a regulated temperature, and with warm clothing. We do not desire strictly to confine the patient to his chamber during a mercurial course—it is not necessary; . but, as a matter of precaution, he should avoid cold and damp ; ■ we ought not to allow him to go out at night, but keep him warm and well clothed ; and, under certain circumstances, he ■should be confined to his room, but this confinement is not to be considered as a general rule. The diet of the patient should -consist of milk, bread, and other farinaceous articles. When the mouth begins to be affected, the patient is unable to take ■any food of a solid kind, therefore the articles I have mentioned must, almost of necessity, constitute the diet; there is, too, a feverish state of the system produced sometimes, in which ani- mal food and fermented liquors would be very improper. On -account of the disposition of the mercury, whether employed externally, or internally, to affect the bowels, it is necessary to avoid certain kinds of food that would favour that tendency; .thus, a patient should not take acids, nor eat salads, pickles, nor unripe fruit, nor undressed vegetables. There are some instances in which mercury is administered to patients who are already in a considerably reduced state of health, and in whom it is expedient to sustain the general strength of the system, at the same time that we avail ourselves of the power of mercury to check the specific disease. Under such circum- stances it is necessary to give the patient a nutritious, and rather a generous diet at the time of using the mercury ; there- fore good soups, strong broth, some small quantity of fer- . meuted liquors, good porter or ale, or even wine and water, may occasionally be allowed under these circumstances. Salivation.—The effect of mercury often proceeds further than we wish; and, indeed, in many instances, the remedy acts prejudicially on the system. It produces effects which are in themselves almost a disease, sometimes we may say disease of a serious kind, and such as to require prompt treatment. Some- times the remedy acts very seriously on the mouth, producing ■ excessive salivation; and I do not know a more deplorable i condition than that of an individual in whom this excessive ptyalism takes place. The tongue becomes swollen, exces- sively sore, excoriated on the surface and edges, and it presses against the teeth on each side, so that indentations of the teeth are observed on the margins of the organ. Sometimes it is so much swollen that it actually protrudes from the mouth. The nose and the lips are enormously swelled, and the whole face and head sometimes participate in the tumefaction. The mucous membrane of the lips, cheeks, aad throat, becomes in- flamed, excoriated, sloughy, and most excessively tender. x 2