316 VENEREAL DISEASE; of this remedy ; and therefore, although we cannot absolutely point out the mode in which the medicine operates, we are not justified in withdrawing our confidence from its powers. It is enough for us, in medical science, to know that a certain thing takes place in point of fact. We are, in many cases, unable to distinguish the modus operandi—that is, the manner in which the beneficial influence is produced. It is rather singular in the case of sarsaparilla, that physicians have no confidence in it, and that surgeons have a great deal of faith in it; because, in general, speaking of faith in the sense in which it is adopted with respect to the efficacy of articles in the “ Materia Medica,” I think that of physicians rather exceeds that of surgeons; however, certainly the reverse is the case as to sarsaparilla. Sarsaparilla is frequently given in the venereal disease in conjunction with mercury, as with blue pill, calomel, or the oxymuriate. Under such circumstances, however, w6 cannot be confident of the virtues of sarsaparilla, because the good we ascribe to it may possibly be accomplished by the mercury. Sarsaparilla is frequently given at the conclusion of long mer- curial courses, where the patient is considerably worn out by the duration of the disease, and the unfavourable influence upon the system of the treatment that has been instituted for it. Here, perhaps, the disconlinuaucee of the cause that kept up the disease—that is the mercury—may have as much influence in bringing the patient to a state of health, as the exhibition of the remedy in question. Respecting the virtues of other substances supposed to be anti-syphilitic—for example, the guaiacum, sassafras, opium, cicuta, mineral acids, and so on, I need say nothing at present; because, although they have been brought forward to the pub- lic with considerable confidence as possessing powers over the venereal disease, general experience has shown that they are merely capable of producing slight effects under certain states incidental to the disease, just as they might in other com- plaints ; that is, they possess no peculiar power in controlling or obviatipg the effects of the venereal virus; and respecting all these substances, I may refer you to the work of Mr. Pear- son, which I have already alluded to, i mean his observations on the effects of various articles in the “ Materia Medica” in the treatment of venereal diseases. Now the attention of medical men has been so much at- tracted by what we may call the specific character of syphilis— their minds have been so much turned to those peculiar cir- cumstances by which syphilis is distinguished from common disease, and they have directed their endeavours so much to the discovery of something that should counteract this specific