TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS. 335 we may inject (after syringing the part well with warm water) the black-wash, or a solution of the sulphate of zinc, or of the nitrate of silver. In some instances, primary syphilitic ulceration makes its way through the internal membrane of the prepuce, through the reflection of the prepuce over the glans, and then the ulceration creeps on under the sheath of the integuments which surround the glans ; and when this part of the prepuce is thus perforated by ulceration, diseased action very frequently extends under the integuments, and almost entirely isolates the body of the penis, passing sometimes as high up as the pubes. Under such circumstances, it seems to me always to be the best plan to slit up the part that is thus undermined by ulceration. We find that healthy action does not take place if we leave it in its original state ; it is necessary to slit up the undermined portion of skin, and then you will find it will heal very readily. When the absorbent glands of the groin are affected, in con- sequence of primary syphilitic ulceration, they sometimes swell rapidly, become red, hot, and painful — suppuration quickly takes place in them. In other instances they swell slowly, the pain is not considerable, the swelling does not become red ; the parts are indurated—simply swollen and indurated. There is a kind of acute inflammation of these glands, leading to suppuration; and there is a more chronic swelling leading to induration and tumour. The treatment of these swellings, or, as they are technically called, buboes, a term derived from the Greek, signifying groin—the treatment of bubo, I say, of course is the same, so far as the general means go, as that of the primary symptoms with which it is con- nected ; they both participate iu those general means which are adopted for the primary symptoms. The state, however, of the swelling of the glands may of itself require particular measures. If there be active inflammation of the glands, you treat it as you would active inflammation occurring elsewhere; you apply leeches; you may apply cold lotions, you may apply poultices, and whatever a simple kind of inflammation else- where would require. If formation of matter takes place, it is as well, perhaps, not to be too hasty in opening the bubo, for we sometimes find that it is absorbed, and it may not be neces- sary to remove it by an opening. When, however, the integu- ment has become thin, and there is a sensible fluctuation, it is generally expedient to make an opening in the collection, for you find it will otherwise open itself. You may either slit up the thin skin by a longitudinal incision, or you may apply caustic, if the detachment of the skin has been very consider- able, in order to destroy a portion of the detached integument.