INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. 17 surgery only. If the pure surgeon is to rank higher in public estimation than the general practitioner, will he rest his claim to this superior dignity on the circumstance of possessing a lower amount of knowledge? It is necessary that surgeons should apply, in their own department, the principles and modes of relief deduced from a survey of medicine generally. The manual part of surgery is far less important than the medical; and it would be indeed disgraceful to our profession if surgeons were not competent to the management of surgical cases with- out the assistance of any other practitioners. Moreover, an eminent surgeon, who has the thorough acquaintance with anatomy, physiology, and the general principles of medical science, necessary to such a character, will be constantly con- sulted in all kinds of circumstances, and more especially in cases of obscurity, difficulty, and emergency. If he says that be has not studied this, that he knows nothing of that, that he cannot direct the treatment of a case under such and such occurrences, what can he expect but to forfeit the confidence of those to whom his ignorance becomes thus exposed, and in whose estimation he must be hereafter contented to rank below the general practitioner? I do not recommend you, gentlemen, to read many books in the commencement of your surgical studies. Seeing and exa- mining will be more useful to you than reading. The elementary works of Mr. Samuel Cooper will be sufficient for the beginner,; I mean his “ First Lines of the Practice of Surgery,” and his Dictionary. The latter is in itself almost a complete surgical library; and its ample references will point out to you the sources of further information. You may extend your study to the writings of Mr. Pott; to those of Mr. Abernethy, more par- ticularly to his work on the constitutional origin and treatment of local diseases; and to those of John Hunter. The latter, however, are hardly fit for beginners. To those who wish to become thoroughly acquainted with the profession of surgery, I recommend the acquirement of a knowledge of Latin, French, and German ; for there are nu- merous sources of information in these languages. You will understand, gentlemen, from the observations which I have now had the honour of addressing to you, that in selecting the medical profession you have set yourselves no very easy task. The study of medicine is, indeed, an arduous undertaking;. The most comprehensive mind, and the greatest industry, might find occupation for many years in acquiring the whole circle of medical knowledge; you will have reason to lament that you cannot employ a longer time in the preli- minary studies which are necessary as a qualification for C