MECHANICAL INJURIES, WOUNDS, ETC. 195 the second intention, and which I have already had occasion to describe ; thirdly, in the interstitial effusion into a part under inflammation, which produces thickening and induration; fourthly, in that condensation of parts which constitutes the sac, cyst, or sides of an abscess; and, fifthly, in the effusion which occurs on the surface of a serous membrane under in- flammation. In all these five cases, there seems to be no essential distinction, in respect to the nature of the substance that is poured out by the vessels; and, in all of them, it is described under the same term of coagulable lymph. The substance, which is poured out under all these circumstances, agTees in this ; that after it has been effused, it admits of re- ceiving vessels and becoming organised ; and, in that respect, there is a strongly-marked difference between the effused lymph and coagulated blood, in which we see no such penetration of the substance by vessels, and its ultimate complete organ- i isation. The process in the various cases that I have now mentioned . to you, has been named by Mr. Hunter adhesive inflammation; and he has regarded the process as essentially the same under - these various circumstances. An objection has been taken to the employment of the term inflammation, in reference to that process by which a recent wound is united, for, in fact, under : favourable circumstances, we find the union will take place 'without the occurrence of any great vascular disturbance of the .part. Often you will not be able to notice any swelling, red- ness, beat, or pain ; no^ any of those circumstances which are considered necessary to establish the presence of inflammation. In fact, if those circumstances occur, that is, if inflammation - takes place in the part recognisable by the circumstances which we ordinarily observe as characterising it, the union by adhe- . sion is disturbed or does not occur. The occurrence, therefore, of inflammation, in its obvious and distinctly recognizable cha- ■ raeter, interferes with and prevents the accomplishment of ad- hesion. When you hear the term adhesive inflammation em- i ployed, you might suppose that there was something peculiar in the inflammation—that there is some peculiar kind of in- ; liammation that is necessary to accomplish the effusion of coa- gulable lymph. We are not aware, however, that there is any thing peculiar in the nature of the increased action of the .capillaries, which ends in this effusion of coagulable lymph. iThe effusion of this fluid seems rather to be the result of in- Datamation when it arrives at a particular pitch or degree, than of any particular character in the inflammation itself. The union by adhesion is sometimes accomplished within a very short period of time. In some experiments made by Dr. John O 2