84 SYMPATHETIC INFLAMMATION. blood a considerable part of what we call the residue of the alimentary matter; to remove a considerable part of the food which has been carried into tire lacteals, but which is not wanted for the purposes of nutrition. If the quantity and quality carried to the lacteals be unhealthy, you will have changes in the state of the urinary system: thus the urine is thick, muddy, or turbid, and a variety of changes take place which have lately been made the subject of curious chemical investigation, but we may at present take the alteration in the urine merely as an indication of the unhealthy performance of the digestive functions. Iu concurrence with these circumstances, you will find the state of the skin more or less deviating from a natural condition. There is a peculiar dingy aspect of the complexion, a sallow- ness of countenance, a dryness and harshness of the surface of the body generally, which form a striking contrast, both in respect to the feeling when touched, and the appearance to the eye, with the naturally soft, light reddish, and slightly moist surface of the skiu. That the state of the skin is an important criterion respecting the health of the animal, is a fact known to those that .take care of horses. An expert groom will tell you whether the horse be in good condition by the state of his hide; and the skin of the human body affords an equally good cri- terion of the state of the man. Such are the various circumstances denoting those disturb- ances or diseases in the alimentary canal and digestive organs, taken generally, that are the source of various local diseases— diseases which we cannot trace to any direct agency on the part affected. The conditions I have been speaking of to you may be regarded in two lights, cither as states of plethora (in which point of view I have mentioned them to you), or merely as disorders of the digestive organs. The one is a more general, the other a more partial view of the same phenomena. I need hardly observe to you that Mr. Abernethy has par- ticularly directed his attention to the evidences of disturbance in the digestive organs, without paying much attention to the indications of plethora. He has pointed out very clearly the symptoms of such disturbance, the mode in which it acts on various parts of the body, and the means by which it may be most successfully combated. Perhaps the views given by Dr. Barlow may be advantageously combined with those of Mr. Abernethy. When taken together, they elucidate the subject more satisfactorily than either of them separately. No doubt other observers must have noticed phenomena which are so obvious and of such very common occurrence. We know, for example, that Dr. Hamilton, of Edinburgh, has published a