282 SPECIFIC DISEASES. was in opening a person who had died ofcaneer in the stomacb. In that case it happened, as it does in many others, that the body was opened very recently after death; it was scarcely cold. The man died of the most formidable affection of the stomacb, namely, cancer; I wounded my fore-finger whilst sewing up the body, and very considerable swelling of the glands of the axilla, with induration and suppuration, came on. One of my medical friends who was kind enough to visit me, made, I observed, a very long face when he saw the case, aud he conceived, as I afterwards found, that the glands in the axilla had taken on a scirrhous character, which partook of the same affection as existed in the stomach of the body I had ex- amined. He mentioned this to another gentleman who was visiting me, with strict injunctions not to let me know of it, for fear of its alarming me; however, those injunctions were not attended to, and we had a good laugh over it, because 1 was not in the slightest degree alarmed. I may state, that in exa- mining patients who have died from fungus hamatodes, scir- rhus, or the venereal disease, 1 do not know of any poisonous principle communicated to wounds received on such occasions. There may, however, perhaps, be some exceptions to this gene- ral observation. There are some instances recorded, of indivi- duals who have received wounds, either in the examination of animals dying under particular states of disease, or in adminis- tering during life to these animals: for instance, to glandered horses. There are instances of individuals who have received wounds upon their hands, under such circumstances, in whom a particular train of symptoms has arisen, one circumstance of which has been the formation of abscesses upon various parts of the body. It has been found that the matter of such an ab- scess has been capable of communicating to other animals— that is, to horses, or asses, the glanders; so that there may be instances of particular poisonous wounds communicating pecu- liar poisonous effects to the human frame. LECTURE XXI. Specific Diseases.—Scrofula and its Treatment. Specific Diseases.—I proceed, gentlemen, in the next place, to speak to you of specific diseases. Scrofula.—We employ the term scrofula in two senses ; first, to designate an assemblage of characters which denote a cer- tain class of disease, comprehended under the term scrofulous