WOUNDS RECEIVED IN DISSECTION. 231 come on, and, if matter should have formed, then I should think it advisable to open the part freely. In cases in which inflam- mation, swelling', and any thing like the formation of matter, occurs at a distance from the seat of injury, that is, for example, in cases of wounds in the fingers or hand, when redness and un- easiness occurs about the axilla or chest, if any thing like the formation of matter should be observed there, 1 think the best course of proceeding would be freely to open the part. The danger in this case is of inflammation arising and proceeding in the cellular membrane of such parts ; and, when it does so proceed, we know very well that there is a want of disposition in the parts to limit the inflammation; that such inflamma- tion is apt to creep on and involve them to a considerable ex- tent ; that the matter does not tend to approach the surface, and, therefore, that a free incision into the part is, according to experience, a most advantageous mode of treatment. As to the constitutional disturbances that may ensue in con- junction with these local symptoms, generally speaking, they are altogether of an inflammatory kind, and should be treated by the antiphlogistic means according to the extent of disturb- ance. I confess I do not regard those cases with any thing like feelings of alarm ; because, in the great majority of instances, if proper attention be paid to them, they terminate favourably. I do not conceive, therefore, that, generally speaking, they should create alarm or be viewed with apprehension. 1 ac- knowledge that I am rather inclined to discharge the idea that these wounds are of a poisonous nature, because 1 conceive its prevalence likely to give rise to much unnecessary alarm. I do not, however, argue against the supposition merely on this ground, but 1 give you my real and serious opinion upon the subject, free from any notion of that kind; 1 am glad to be able conscientiously to arrive at the conclusion i have come to, that your anatomical studies need not be prosecuted with dread. I should also say that there is not the fear of communicating the peculiar disease to yourselves, in dissections, of which the persons may have died. Although the venereal disease is capable of being communi- cated during life, we do not know of its having the power of being communicated from the dead subject to the living. Nei- ther in cancer, fungus hxmatodes,nor in any similar case, have we any instance of disease of the same kind being communi- cated to the human body through the medium of a wound in- flicted in dissecting the parts after death. I have mentioned to you, that I have only once suffered in- convenience from a wound inflicted while dissecting, and that