VENEREAL DISEASE; 308 There is at the same time a constant and profuse foetid dis- charge of saliva from the mouth. This continues to run night and day, and almost prevents the patient from taking his rest. The quantity frequently exceeds what I have already men- tioned ; a pint or a quart of saliva will flow from the mouth in a comparatively short time. The ulceration of the gums, the looseness, and painful state of the teeth in their sockets, become more considerable. The gums slough, the alveoli perish, and the teeth themselves fall out. I recollect seeing a gentleman who came from the East Indies, who had been in the army at Rangoon, and who had there contracted a fever, for which it was necessary to give him mercury very freely. Under the employment of this medicine his head swelled, and salivation came on. He embarked for England with very little appear- ance of his living to reach this country. He however survived the voyage, and I saw him when he arrived in town, at which time his lips, gums, and all parts thereabouts, were enormously swelled. He could not open his mouth at all; and there was a quantity of the most horrible discharge continually flowing from his mouth that I ever beheld ; indeed it was so great, that he scented that part of the ship in which he resided to such an extent, that nobody could go near it during the voyage. When I came to examine the mouth, I found that the teeth were all loose and shaking, and, in fact, that the whole thirty-two would come out, sixteen from each jaw, and then the whole alveolar processes came away ! So that he lost the whole of his teeth, and the alveolar processes ; and besides that, in consequence of the sloughing, the insides of the cheeks became adherent to the surfaces of the gums, so that he had but a very limited power remaining of moving the lower jaw. Salivation, if properly managed, is not at all dangerous to life, though sometimes it almost entirely prevents a person from taking food during a short period, and now and then impedes articulation. Now, unfortunately, when excessive salivation does occur, there is no direct or speedy remedy for this very painful and distressing state. It will require two, three, or four weeks for the affection gradually to subside, and we can- not, perhaps, very materially accelerate the disappearance of the symptoms. I have mentioned to you that a warm and uni- form temperature promotes the action of mercury, in the same way free exposure to cold diminishes it; so that when a person labours uuderthat state, he ought to go out in the air without any covering about the face. People wrap themselves up, and think it necessary to tie up the mouth in order to exclude the air. On the contrary, they should go out and keep themselves cool. Saline purgatives should be given to keep the bowels