SECONDARY SYMPTOMS. 355 the strongest argument with Mr. Hunter in favour of its syphi- litic nature—it is curable, and most easily and decidedly so, by the employment of mercury. That is Mr. Hunter’s great criterion, in general, for deciding whether a complaint is syphi- litic or not. If a disease gives way easily under mercury, he argues that it is syphilitic; if not, he argues that it is not syphilitic. Therefore this affection of the infant is one that would come under his idea of syphilis in all its circumstances: the origin of the affection, its nature, the way in which it can be communicated from one individual to another, and the mode in which it is cured—all concur in shewing that the affection is in its nature syphilitic. Now we naturally ask, in the first instance, whether this affection in the child proceeds from the primary or the secon- dary form of the disease in the mother? So far as my own op- portunities of observation and inquiry have gone, I should say that it is produced, not by the existence of the primary, but by the existence of the secondary, disease in the mother. I do not mean to say the existence of primary disease in the mother may not produce it, but in the majority of instances, I think we find it seems to have owed its origin to the secondary or constitutional form ; and, in fact, the disease, as it appears in the child, does not bear the characters which would constitute a series of symptoms that we should regard as primary in the adult. I remember the instance of a young female about six- teen years of age, who was in this hospital, a patient of mine, being then far advanced in pregnancy—about the sixth month —at all events as far as that, and who had got very obstinate chancres, for which I had to employ mercury so as to salivate her, and which I did freely. I may observe here, that that was done without having had any effect on the offspring. I am not sure whether she had any secondary symptoms before the birth of the child or not, because she did not continue to remain under my care; but knowing that she was in the family way, I was interested in the case, and I told her when she left the hospital, to bring the child, and let me see it in a month after it was born. She brought it, and it was then perfectly well and healthy. I told her to bring it to me at the end of another month: and she came a fortnight sooner with it, poxed all over, and she herself had got a syphilitic affection of the throat, and was ill altogether. Now this is the only instance that I have got, of primary disease alone appearing in the mother where the infant was affected, but yet I cannot say that she bad no secondary disease before the birth of the child. There is another case mentioned by Mr. Hey, of Leeds, in a paper in the seventh volume of the Medico-Cbirurgical Transactions, entitled, A A 2