TETANUS. 226 muscles become more and more rigid, until the mouth can be opened for the admission of food or medicine, only with great difficulty; und, indeed, it is sometimes necessary to lake out one or more teeth for that purpose. The same may be observed with respect to the muscles of the neck and of the spine, and iu some cases, when the spasm is carried to its height, the trunk is forcibly extended, and the shoulders are so drawn back, that you can put your hand into a complete hollow under the spine. This is the state that may be called opisthotonos ; when the disease has arrived at its highest, you have this state of permanent contraction—spasmodic contraction of the whole of the voluntary muscles. The muscles of the trunk, the mus- cles of the abdomen, the muscles of the limbs, and the muscles of the face, are in this state of rigid contraction, and the pain to the patient is excessive. The intellectual functions are not impaired in tetanus. It is stated by Cullen, too, that the natural functions, that is, the secreting, the respiratory, and the digestive, are unimpaired; but this I consider to be a very erroneous representation. He states, also, that the pulse is not at all affected; that the blood exhibits no alteration when it is drawn from a person labour- ing under tetanus, or that if it be altered at all, it is rather loose in its consistence. He mentions that the appetite is unim- paired, and that the functions of the digestive system are regu- larly performed. Now you will usually find that the pulse, particularly in a young robust person labouring uuder tetanus, is full, strong, and accelerated ; that it often rises from 100 to 120 and upwards, at the beginning of the affection. You will find that the blood is buffed and cupped, instead of exhibiting the looseness of texture of which Cullen speaks. There is loss of appetite and most obstinate costiveness, circumstances which are quite inconsistent with the idea of the regular performance of digestion. Indeed, in the treatment of this disease, this cos- tiveness is very troublesome, and frequently tends to obviate the effect of medicines given for the relief of some other symp- tom. The pathology of tetanus has, hitherto, been rather obscure. The spasm, and the convulsions of the voluntary muscles, na- turally lead us to inquire into the state of the spinal chord, from which the nerves supplying those muscles are derived. This has, of late, been particularly examined into; and in cases of tetanus appearances of disease have frequently been described as having been found in the spinal chord; but 1 can- not say that those appearances are either sufficiently constant or distinct to lead to any satisfactory explanation. In some cases, small thin plates of ossification have been found upon Q