HYDROPHOBIA. 24S little additional pain, belter to leave a slight sear, than to allow any chance of the poison being introduced into the system. This is the chief means of prevention to be relied on ; but the act of excision is not inconsistent with ablution. In fact, Dr. Sully recommends excision in the strongest terms. He recommends ablution of the wound, and then excision ; first of all to cut away the fragments of the wound, if it be at all torn, and then to cut out the whole surface of the wound. The prac- tice of excision need not be confined to the time immediately following the infliction of the wound; it will answer the pur- pose very well if it be done several hours after the wound has been received. Recollect what I have mentioned to you on the subject of the interval that elapses between the infliction of the wound and the appearance of the symptoms. Some have supposed, that the poison remains in the part from the time at which the wound is inflicted, till the symptoms commence. Of course we have no certain knowledge on this subject; but it is not unlikely that the poison communicated to the part may not extend its effect beyond that part for a time ; and then a ques- tion arises : In how long a time after a wound has been in- flicted, may excision be practised with success? Now, we have no clear knowledge on this point. So far, however, as it extends, and as reasoning on the obvious facts directs us, it is very probable that the excision may be adopted even some days after the infliction of the wound with success. There is, how- ever, this disadvantage attending excision at some distance after the occurrence of the wound, that we do not know exactly how far the wound has extended ; it is while the wound is still open, and in its original state, that we can see its extent, and be sure that we have removed the whole of the injured surface. I think Dr. Sully recommended, besides ablution and excision, the application, to the part, of a poultice or poultices, covered with mercurial ointment. I am not aware of any particular advantage that can arise from their application. Slings.—In the stings of insects there is a small wound in- flicted, and there is an acrid matter introduced into the wound. I speak of the stings of the bee, the wasp, the hornet, and the tarantula spider. The wound is extremely minute, and, of course, the acrid matter which is introduced is very small. It produces a slight pain, a burning or tingling sensation, slight redness of the integuments, with a little swelling of the sur- rounding part. The application of any cold liquid is sufficient to remedy the inconvenience that arises from a case of this kind. Iu fact, the sting of a single insect, bee, wasp, or hornet, pro-