GOUT 283 iris, we can, from some particular circumstance, distinguish from common inflammatory action of the part. I shall just read to you a few notes of a case or two of gouty inflammation of the iris, which will »show you, that the texture, like the joints of the body, may be the seat of repeated attacks of in- flammation, ending perhaps in its disorganization in individuals Of gouty constitution. I was consulted, during the last sum- mer, by a gentleman forty years of age, a stout person, of san- guine temperament, and fair complexion. The history that gentleman gave of himself was this : he had lived a very dis- sipated life at Oxford, drinking freely, and, in particular, of port-wine. He was very robust and hearty. At the age of twenty-two he had a severe attack of the gout; that was, a painful affection of the feet, toes, and other parts, which lasted for some months. This induced him to leave off drinking port-wiue, but he had still lived very freely. He has had ten attacks of inflammation of the right eye, and the left has suffered on two occasions; at one time the inflammation occupied three years, aud at that time he bad some swelling in the right hand: with this exception, he had not suffered in the joints or limbs since his first illuess. Now in the right eye, in which there were so many attacks of inflammation, the iris was changed in structure, so altered, that you could hardly recog- nise the natural texture of the part, and vision was nearly extinct. Here you see the cause which produced that state of the system on which the disease depended. I performed the operation for cataract on a gentleman who had lost one eye from gouty inflammation, and gouty characters had presented themselves in the other. This was a gentleman fifty-five years of age, of fair complexion, and sanguine temperament, who had passed several years in the West Indies, living freely, and suffering greatly from gout. Every joint was swollen and knotted in the most remarkable manner, and so as very much to alter the appearance of the limbs. Now this is a circum- stance to be observed iu these cases. There is a deposition of what are called chalk stones, either in the interior of the joints, or in the soft parts around them, which concretions, although called chalk-stones, consist of muriatic acid, combined with soda. These are not essentially connected with gout, because in the early stage of disease you do not find them. Well, then, the fingers of this gentleman were like so many strings of rough knots, and the hands altogether presented an appearance not at all like the natural nppearance of hands; the ancles were the same; the pupil was nearly closed in one eye, and there was considerable adhesion and opacity of the capsule of the lens. Being very unwilling to operate, from the appear-