78 SYMPATHETIC INFLAMMATION. membranes. Inflammation and deposition of pus in the lungs, liver, and spleen; inflammation with suppuration of the cavity of certain joints; and also one case with deposition of pus, in the way I have already alluded to, in the cellular substance of the interstices of certain muscles. A patient may have gonorrhea, and without our being able to observe any particular application to the eye; perhaps vio- lent inflammation of the conjunctiva, with purulent discharge, will supervene; this may possibly be followed by inflammation of the synovial membrane of certain joints. Now these various examples of inflammation are very different to the preceding cases, in all of which we could trace the application to the in- flamed part of some direct cause of disease; here we can discern no direct agency, and the only way we can account for the existence of disease is through the sympathetic influence excited over such parts by disease or disorder existing in some other part of the body. The reciprocal influence which the head, and organs in the abdomen, exert upon each other, form good illustrations of this sympathy, and constitute a point of considerable practical importance. When a person has re- ceived a violent injury to the head, nothing is more common than for sickness to follow, and the contents of the stomach to be ejected by vomiting. If this does not take place, the patient soon loses his appetite and becomes costive. If a person, in perfect health, receive a piece of very afflicting intelligence, it will entirely destroy his appetite. I have known a gentleman, just on the point of sitting down to dinner, enjoying the best of health, receive news of a very distressing nature, and immedi- ately lose all inclination for food. The state of the stomach is equally capable of exerting important influence over the head. Thus it is known, that a worm in the stomach, particularly of a child, is capable of producing convulsions; besides this, an unhealthy state of the stomach will produce affections of the head, presenting all the external characters of hydrocephalus. In severe injuries of the head it has sometimes been found that the liver has been the seat of inflammation and abscess ; that is, of those depositions of lymph or pus I have already alluded to. On the other hand, the terms hypochondriasis and melancholia are applied to certain cases of mental disturbance, and these expressions clearly show that such mental conditions have al- ways been considered to arise from the state of more distant organs, such as the stomach and the liver. In the disturbance oAhe* biliary system, which constitutes jaundice, every one knows that there is a most remarkable degree of languor and dejection of spirits. When you consider the great extent of the digestive organs,