367 TREATMENT OF GONORRHOEA. covery, indeed, if any one could find out a speedy and effectual mode of accomplishing1 this. Medical and other students would feel greatly interested in the discovery; and a person who could cure a clap in a short time would undoubtedly immor- talize himself. The ladies of Fleet-street and the Strand would be inclined to erect a statue to his memory; I believe, however, there is no very speedy mode of accomplishing the object, and that we are not able to diminish very much that kind of moral lesson which this suffering is calculated to convey. The treat- ment of the clap may be considered either as rational or empiri- cal. When we proceed to treat it rationally, or on principle, we regard it as an inflammatory disease, and treat it by anti- phlogistic means. In some of the bad cases which I have men- tioned to you,it may be necessary, perhaps, to take blood from the loins or perineum, by cupping, or by leeches ; to purge, to administer sudorifics and saline medicines, with antimony. The patient should be kept at rest in a recumbent position, and on low diet; in fact, altogether upon a pretty active antiphlo- gistic plan of treatment. After clearing the bowels actively, you may administer the liquor ammomx acetatis with nitre, combined with the super-tartrate of potass; or any of these medicines, combined with antimony, in pretty considerable doses, may be freely administered. Mucilaginous and diluent drinks should be largely taken, in order to dilute the urine and render it less stimulating; barley water, linseed tea, gum-ara- bic water. Alkaline remedies are found capable of assisting in this object, particularly the liquor potassse, which may be given in any of the vehicles I have mentioned; and, perhaps, the best mode of administering it with a view to relieve the scald- ing produced by the passage of the urine is, to give ten drops immediately after each occasion of making water. If you merely give it at distinct intervals, the effect is lost; but if you give it immediately after voiding the urine, it will have an effect on the secretion before the patient wants to pass the urine again. If considerable pain remain about the bladder and ure- thra after you have adopted these measures, you will find it ad- visable to put the patient into a warm bath, the hip bath, and to administer a good dose of Dover’s powder, or opium. When the pain continues very troublesome, you may occasionally re- lieve it by the local administration of opium in the form of in- jection. In a mild case of gonorrhoea, you adopt a milder kind of antiphlogistic treatment; you empty the bowels, keep the patient quiet, give him low diet, give him nitre and the super- tartrate of potass, and diluent drinks. In the state of high inflammation of the penis, patients ex- perience relief from the application and frequent renewal of