ON MORTIFICATION. 156 matter of importance. There are, however, some mortifications slight in extent, and derived simply from external causes, which are unattended with any kind of danger : thus a person may have a mortification of part of the skin covering the tibia, in consequence of a smart blow upon it; that, of course, is not a dangerous circumstance. The skin covering an aneurism, when rendered very thin by the approach of the tumour to the surface; that also covering an abscess, when it is pointing, may mortify. These are examples of limited mortification, from causes that merely act on a small portion of the body, but In other instances, and especially in all those where mortification is referrable to internal causes, and where we explain it chiefly by that unhealthy state of the constitution to which I have alluded, the prognosis is always very serious. The extent of the change, the depth to which it proceeds, the importance of the organ attacked, the state of the constitution of the indivi- dual in whom it occurs ; these are points which should be at- tentively considered by you before you venture to pronounce an opinion as to the result of the case. Treatment.—In an affection, of which the nature and cause are so dissimilar, you will naturally conclude that no one mode of treatment can be appropriate to all cases. Heretofore, at- tention has been chiefly given to the circumstance of the loss of vitality in the part affected, and to the impending loss of vitality in the parts to which the disease seems to be extend- ing. Hence an idea has been entertained that all means should be taken to stimulate the parts, so that the geueral rule has been to apply stimuli locally and generally, internally and ex- ternally; to give bark, tonics, and cordials, as well as a full nutritious diet. This is by no means proper as a general plan of treatment in mortifications. Undoubtedly, in particular in- stances, it is right to employ means of this particular order, but we can in no wise say such a practice would be right in the generality of cases. Some have asserted that mortification is always preceded by inflammation, and in their treatment they have principally regarded that circumstance; viz. its origin in inflammation, or the inflammatory character of the primary af- fection. It is, perhaps, rather doubtful whether this notion could be completely verified in all cases. It is doubtful whe- ther a distinguishable state of inflammation does always pre- cede mortification. At all events we should certainly go very wide of the mark if we were to treat all cases of mortification by antiphlogistic means. We can easily suppose that, in the extreme prostration of all the powers of the system which some- times characterizes mortification, it would be actual madness to think of employing antiphlogistic treatment. The general