24* ON THE NATURE AND SEAT OF DISEASES. if we come to inquire what is their meaning;, they seem to be nearly the same. What is disease ? It is an interruption of ease—it is a change in the feeling. What is disorder? An interruption of order—it is an interruption of the regular exe- cution of the functions of the body. The examination which we make after death, is not a satisfac- tory criterion of the changes which may take place in the state of an organ during life. Certain changes of a very obvious kind, take place during life, and of which we can trace nothing after death. In the case of erysipelas, and in some other diseases of the skin, there is a very manifest determination of blood to the skin during life; considerable distention of all the blood- vessels of that part; considerable redness of it; but these appearances are lost after death. The redness in ophthalmia disappears in the same way. We are not, therefore, to con- clude, because we can discern no change in the state of the part after death, that no change took place during life. We are not now considering whether a function can be diseased •without a change in the state of the organs: our principal point is to ascertain whether there was a change in the living condition. The examination, therefore, after death, is an un- certain criterion, and is not decisive of the point in question. Again; before we can determine that no change whatever has taken plaee in an organ, our examination after death must be very accurate, and it should be performed under the guid- ance of a full knowledge of the healthy, normal, or regular state of the parts ; and without the person who examines has that knowledge, it is impossible to determine whether certain changes may not have taken place and been overlooked. Thus we find, that in proportion as pathological investiga- tion after death has been conducted with greater accuracy, the number of diseases, supposed to be functional, has been di- minished. Fevers have been supposed to arise from the dis- eased functions of the brain, but the more accurate patholo- gical inquirers of modern times have found out that a great many organs of the body are considerably and obviously dis- eased in the case of fevers. Thus, it is found, that this com- plaint, instead of being a functional disorder, belongs to organic diseases. To many affections of the head the same observation applies. The division, then, of diseases into functional and organic, in the view we now take, must rather be regarded as a dis- tinction in degree than in nature. In the case of diseases called functional, the changes are such as to leave only slight, or, in many instances, no traces of change after death at all; in the diseases called organic, the alterations in the natural