244- iiydrophobia. horror and aversion, the fluid he was about to drink; he feels unable to get a single drop down his throat, and after having once experienced this sensation, nothing can prevail on the patient to repeat the attempt; or if he do (which is seldom the case,) at the request of friends, or medical attendants, who are anxious to ascertain the extent of the affection, he just brings the vessel near to his mouth, and then suddenly dashes it away again. There is a convulsive spasm of the muscles of the throat and subsequently an agitation of the whole frame, which ren- ders it utterly impossible for a person, even of the most deter- mined resolution, to swallow the fluid. Very often the mere sound of a liquid poured into a vessel will bring on a spasm of this kind. A little air blowing on the patient; the sight of any bright object that raises in the miud the recollection of liquid, or any thing resembling it, will be found to bring on these ef- fects. It has sometimes happened, that persons ofstrong minds who have been resolved to overcome these feelings, have at- tempted actually to swallow, but that act has often produced a sensation nearly amounting to suffocation. In conjunction with this, there is a peculiar excitement of the nervous system. The slightest causes will bring on agita- tion and alarm; the patient is pursued by a thousand phantoms which intrude themselves on his mind ; he labours under strong fears ; he holds conversation with imaginary persons ; he supposes men are coming into the room to take him away ; he fancies himself in the greatest danger, and surrounded with difficulties. These thoughts pass through his mind with the greatest rapidity, and keep him in a state of the greatest dis- tress. Such a condition is, of course, attended with accelera- tion of the pulse, pain of the head, a foul state of the tongue, and disturbance of most of the organs of the body ; and you will naturally suppose that it cannot last very long. Hydrophobia terminates fatally in a period varying from be- tween six-and-thirty hours, to four or five days. Sometimes it ends fatally in a shorter period. I have seen it in a youug child end fatally in about four-and-twenty hours. The high state of excitement of the nervous system soon wore out the feeble powers of childhood. The symptoms are not invariably the same in all individu- als; there are periods of ease and of extreme suffering, in most cases. Sometimes the mental powers remain very clear throughout the complaint; sometimes a condition of delirium, or one very nearly approaching it, prevails throughout the greater period of the disease. But, altogether, the state of the nervous system is so peculiar, that a person who has once seen hydrophobia, cannot fail to recognise it again; it cannot be