344 VENEREAL DISEASE; the other the second order of parts. Those that I have men- tioned to you first, he calls the first order ; the bones, the nose, and the joints, he calls the second order. He says constitu- tutional symptoms primarily affect those of the first order, and subsequently show themselves in those of the second order; and, as a general observation, this may be admitted, yet it does not hold invariably true; for, as I have already stated to you, the secondary symptoms sometimes come on before the primary symptoms are gone ; and occasionally the second order of parts is affected in the first instance. I saw, not long since, a gen- tleman who had a primary sore upon the penis, that had lasted a considerable time; the ulceration had extended through the reflected lining of the prepuce, upon the glans, and had bur- rowed under the skin of the penis. There was considerable in- duration ; it had lasted a long time there, perhaps some six or seven weeks or more, and he had a swelling of the periosteum covering the side of the shin ; that was the first appearance of the secondary symptoms in that case. I remember another case of a medical gentleman who consulted me, in which the first appearance of secondary symptoms after the primary, was a swelling of the periosteum of the frontal bone. You are to re- gard these distinctions, then, of first and second orders, as only true in a general sense, and as not being invariably applicable. LECTURE XXVII. Venereal Disease.—Secondary Symptoms in the Skin, soft parts of the Throat, Nose, Testicle — Warts—Syphilis in Infants. Secondary Symptoms..—I believe, gentlemen, that 1 omitted in the last lecture to notice one point to which I had intended to advert, namely, the questiou, whether a syphilitic bubo can occur without any primary sore; whether the glands in the groin can become affected by syphilis, except in consequence of the previous existence of a primary sore on some part of the generative organs? This is a point that is not yet decided. I can only state to you my own belief, which is, that the glands in the groin may become so affected. I mean to say that we do occasionally see instances where chronic indolent swellings of the "lands in the groin occur in individuals in whom we cannot trace any other cause for their occurrence ; in individuals who have exposed themselves to the possibility of contracting sy-