214 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. Portions of the dress of the individual may be carried in by the bullet at the time the wound takes place. It is desirable, in the first instance, to remove such foreign substances, when it can be accomplished easily. When the bullet, or fragment, is near the external opening of the wound, and it can be removed by inconsiderable mcision—if a bullet, for instance, having gone through a limb, be just under the skin at the opposite side of the limb, and you can remove it by merely making a division of the skin, by all means take it out. If there be a large mass of clothing so situated that by a little incision you can remove it, it will be desirable for you to do so, for objects of this nature will become sources of irritation in subsequent stages of the proceedings. When, however, you cannot get rid of them without tedious search, without extensive incisions, you had better leave them alone. It often happens that bullets are driven far into the body, and without being detected after the infliction of the wound, they remain in the situation to which they reached in the first instance, and actually continue there for a number of years, without exciting any irritation in the part. It frequently happens that the direction of a bullet, on entering the body, is diverted; it does not go straight through from one surface to the other; it does not pursue a straightcourse, but it will be diverted from its regular direction, by striking against a bone, or meeting with a tendon, or the convex surface of a muscle; and, indeed, so much so that the mere external opening of the wound, and the direction the bullet seemed to have taken on first entering the body, do not give you any means of tracing out the part at which it has arrived. In many cases you cannot find out where the bullet is seated, so that you have not the means of tracing it. For the reasons I have just, given you, it is not worth while to make any great search for the foreign body. It is better to leave the thing alone, for you find that no very serious effect is produced by its presence. For the first few days after the in- fliction of such a wound, you cannot do better than keep the part covered with a cold, wet, cloth. That is the most likely mode to prevent inflammation. If the cold should be unplea- sant to the patient, you may apply a poultice. As to the posture of the limb, you should adopt the position best calcu- lated for its quiet. With regard to the state of the patient’s body, diet, and all other such circumstances, you should follow the plan which is most likely to prevent the occurrence of inflammation, for that is the great source of danger in such cases. Under certain circumstances, it will be necessary for you to adopt very active antiphlogistic means. Where a part of great