NATURE AND CLASSIFICATION OF DISEASES. 41 lation produced by (he hearty meal. The hearty meal of which such an individual has partaken, would be called, by nosolo- gists, (he occasional cause of the disease : the sanguine tempe- rament, the short neck, and the fulness of habit, are predis- posing or remote causes- Thus you observe, that investigating the mode in which disease is produced, you often have got a train of changes to observe, each of which, considered in reference to that which goes before, and that which follows, is successively, effect and cause. Having, then, observed the history of the disease, having noticed the existing symptoms, having traced the cause, having watched the course and duration of the disease and its termi- nation, we complete our investigation of the subject by ex- amining the body of the patient after death, in case death should occur. This leads us to find out the changes which have been produced in the state of the part immediately affected, or of other parts connected with it; and by this we ascertain what we may call the pathological condition of every part. The knowledge we thus acquire, is of great importance towards enabling us to determine the seat and nature of dis- ease. It is this inquiry after death, into the changes that take place in organs, that has so materially contributed to give us more just notions of disease. It is this which has dispelled all those notions by which disease was attributed to certain alterations of the fluids, or to certain vital properties; for it has shown us, in those cases, the material changes in the organs that have been produced by such diseases. This ex- amination completes the history of disease. Iu many cases we do not find a change produced in the organ, but even this negative circumstance is of use in detecting error. Now, important as this examination is, and valuable as the information is that it imparts to us, you must not consider that it is a matter of the first importance in investigating the history of disease. The point of chief consequence is, clinical obser- vation during life ; that is, the ascertaining of all the changes which take place in the state of an organ, or the condition of its functions during life. The examination after death com- pletes the history of the case, but that is of subordinate con- sequence in comparison with clinical observations during life. By the mere observation of diseases during life, we can under- stand a great deal of their history, origin, causes, progress, and termination, without examining bodies at all. The examination of bodies after disease, in many instances, cannot be performed, because the patients do not die. In many instances, we are not allowed to examine them ; in several instances, we detect no change. Therefore, you will observe, that the cases are,