193 LECTURE XVI. Mechanical Injuries, Wounds, §c. Having concluded the observations that I had to offer to you respecting inflammation, I come to another important di- vision of Surgery, viz. the Nature and Treatment of Injuries, ■which, indeed, may be regarded as a continuation of the for- mer subject, for injuries produce inflammation, and our prin- cipal object in the treatment of them, is to arrest or to lessen inflammation. I have, first, to speak to you of wounds; and the most sim- ple form of that kind of injury consists of incised wounds or cuts, under which head we include the great majority of surgi- cal operations, so that the observations I have to make to you respecting the nature of those injuries and their management, are equally applicable to the state of surgical operations ; the treatment of the latter falls under the general principles which I shall now have to explain to you. Under the head, then, of incised wounds or cuts, we em- brace all divisions of any part of the body by means of any cutting instrument. Common experience has shown, that if a recent wound, inflicted in this way, has its sides brought into contact, those sides will unite, and thus the wound will heal, ^ without any discharge taking place. If an ordinary person, who had cut his finger, and who had just bound something round the part, and cured it in that way, were to be told that he had cured his wound per primam intentionem, be, probably, would be very much astonished to find that he had acted so cleverly. That, however, is the name given to a cure of this kind. When the two sides of a wound are thus brought toge- ther and united, Galen speaks of it by the term primam inten- tionem. This is an uuion known then from the greatest anti- quity, though the mode by which it is accomplished has only ;been clearly explained in modern times. This mode of heal- ing is now very commonly called union by adhesion—union by the first intention, or union by adhesion, are synonimous ex- pressions—they are terms perfectly equivalent. When a wound is united in this way, it is found that the substance called coagvlabte lymph is thrown out on the surface of the wound, or, rather, it is effused in the interval between the approximated sides of the wound, and thus it agglutinates, or unites them, o