4 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. between physic and surgery consists; whether in the nature of the diseases allotted, to each, or in the mode of treatment; ■whether there is any essential difference in the mode of learn- ing them; how and when the distinction arose; whether it is well founded, whether it tends to the advantage of the public, or merely to the benefit of physicians and surgeons. Nothing like the modern distinction was made by the an- cients ; there is no trace of it in the Greek, Roman, or Arabian writers. Certain branches of practice were followed separately in Egypt, where the diseases of the eyes, the teeth, and even of some internal parts, were attended to exclusively by particular classes of practitioners; and some such distinctions existed in Rome. But Hippocrates, Galen, Celsus, and the other medical writers of antiquity, treat indifferently of the nature and ma- nagement of fevers, injuries, external and internal disorders, and operations. In speaking of treatment, Celsus considers it under three divisions, the same which we still adopt, and men- tions these under their Greek names, viz.: (diet, &c.) <Pap/xaKstmxrj (remedies), ;^£ipyp'y*x*) (ehirurgical, or manual proceedings). But the idea of splitting medicine into two parts, and of teaching tham differently, seems never to have been entertained by this elegant and philosophic writer, nor by those other founders and great promoters of medical science and practice, whose names and works are still regarded with defer- ence and respect. In the long night of barbarous ignorance which intervened between the downfal of the Roman empire and the revival of learning in the west, the treatment of diseases was preserved by the ecclesiastics. The exercise of medicine harmonized well with the more immediate object of their calling; but, after the council of Tours, held in 1163, had declared that the church abhors the shedding of blood (ecclesia abhorret a san- guine), priests and monks were obliged to desist from all cura- tive proceedings that involve loss of blood. These were taken up by barbers, attendants on baths, itinerants, and mounte- banks. In course of time, surgery, which then consisted merely of bleeding, tooth-drawing, and a few other simple processes, became, with the art of the barber, the occupation of a class of men, who were legally incorporated in this and other countries, under the title of barber-surgeons. The sepa- ration of surgery, or one branch of treatment, from that me- dical knowledge which is the indispensable guide to the time and mode of its application, and its association with the art of the barber, long outlived the circumstances which produced them. In England it lasted till the middle of the last century, when the Company of Barber-Surgeons was legally extin-