INFLAMMATION, 54 These observations do not extend to the swelling which is situated in the neighbourhood of the part I have mentioned— that is soft and not firm. The disease in such a part is not so violent as in the immediate seat of the inflammation itself. There it produces an effusion of serous fluid in the cellular tex- ture, and is similar to what takes place in dropsy. We have a good opportunity of seeing the nature of what is effused under inflammation, by observing what happens when the serous membranes are inflamed, because there, the substance which, in other parts, is deposited internally, is effused on a surface, and thus rendered obvious to the senses. When the perito- neum, or pleura, is inflamed, we find there is a kind of thin glue, that is a white, soft, and semi-transparent substance, de- posited on the inflamed membrane, by which the opposite sur- faces, that are naturally free and unconnected, become aggluti- nated. This is the state which is exhibited under slight de- grees of inflammation ; but when it is more violent you have an opaque yellowish substance, of a somewhat fibrous appear- ance, deposited on the surfaces of those membranes. This, in its chemical properties, corresponds very closely to the fibrin of the blood,'and is the substance to which, more particularly, the name of lymph is given. On the surfaces of the serous membranes you see large portions of this lymph, in conse- quence of inflammatory disturbance. At first it lies loosely connected to the surfaces, so that you can easily scrape it off with the finger, or handle of a knife ; but within a short period blood-vessels are found in that substance. These seem to be an extension of the blood-vessels from the surfaces in which the lymph is effused ; at all events, the substance which is at first inorganic soon becomes organised, and this takes place more rapidly than you would at first imagine; for instance, in an inflamed intestine, blood-vessels have been injected in the newly-deposited lymph in twenty-four hours from the com- mencement of the inflammation. When the lymph thus becomes organised, it assumes, more or less, the nature of the part in which it is deposited; thus, when adhesions form between the various parts contained in the cavity of the abdomen, they are assimilated in nature to the surface of the peritoneum ; they constitute smooth and polished bands, or plates, preternaturally connecting the parts together, and presenting a surface which you could not, ana- tomically, distinguish from the natural and healthy structure of the peritoneum. Here is an example of such deposition taking place between the peritoneum and liver. [The lecturer here exhibited a preparation, consisting of an adhesion between the surface of the liver and the peritoneal