366 TREATMENT OF GONORRHCEA. run further than about an inch and a half or two inches from the orifice; and Mr. Hunter calls that the specific distance. He seems to have had an idea, that in clap the inflammation does not usually reach beyond the point I have mentioned. However, the inflammation by no means observes this limit in all cases. It gets beyond Mr. Hunter’s “specific distance,” runs along the whole course of the urethra, and extends to the bladder, the mucous membrane of which becomes inflamed. This is followed by considerable pain in the affected parts. The pain is felt severely in the region of the bladder and about the perineum. The patient experiences painful erections. The irritation to which the penis is subject, gives rise to those erec- tions. They are repeated frequently and attended with exces- sive pain. More or less this is a symptom usually experienced in a clap. The violence of the inflammation is sometimes at- tended with an effusion of coagulable lymph, either into the interior of the corpus cavernosum, or into the corpus spongiosum urethras. This is attended with considerable pain, the penis being kept erect, it is called chordee ; it seems as if the organ was confined in a straight or unnatural situation. The patient, when the inflammation extends into the bladder, is tormented with an almost incessant desire to void the urine. The act of voiding the urine is very painful. The heat and irritation of the urethra by the passage of the urine are increased to an al- most unbearable degree. Uuder such circumstances, and inas- much as the mucous membrane of the urethra is swollen, the dimensions of the urinary canal are diminished, so that the urine passes with difficulty through the urethra, comes out very slowly, and of course the pain in discharging it is proportion- ately augmented. This difficulty sometimes proceeds to such an extent that the urine comes away in drops, and indeed the disease may proceed to total retention of the urine. Under such circumstances it happens occasionally, that some of the overloaded vessels give way and blood is discharged. This is often attended with benefit, for it tends to relieve the distended vessels of the inflamed membrane. Such are the circumstances which characterize clap, in its worst form. When the inflammation occupies the whole of the urethra, when it more or less involves the lining of the bladder, there is not, perhaps, a more painful state of suffering while it lasts than are the results of a gonorrhoea which runs to this extent. Then other cases again are particularly mild; they trouble the patient with very little pain, and there is only a little uneasiness in voiding the urine. Treatment.—We next, gentlemen, come to speak of the treat- ment—how to cure a clap. It would be a very interesting dis-