GOUT. 282 with each other; but they must be content to choose for them- selves. If they prefer good eating and drinking to health, they may have them; but if they prefer the enjoyment of real health, they must abstain from the vices I have named. The truth is, persons wish us to give them the means of having health, while they pursue these gratitications. We can give them their choice of these, and if they will continue eating and drinking, and bring on the gout, we can, to a certain extent, alleviate their sufferings when they arise; that is, we can treat the case so that the patient can go ou a little longer. But if we speak of the cure of the gout, I know only one alternative; the state of system that renders a person liable to these attacks must continue, unless he will be temperate in his living and active in exertion. I know no other means of accomplishing the object except these. Now it is a question whether we are to confine our notions of gout simply to its attacks on the joints of the body, or whe- ther we are to consider that other organs, other textures, are liable to the condition which we should call gouty. When we see that the gouty constitution is essentially a condition of plethora, we easily understand that persons will be liable to attacks of inflammation in a variety of places. We find that persons liable to gout, very frequently have inflammatory attacks of the head, chest, or abdomen. We not unfreqnently find, that when gouty disease ceases in the joints, it shows itself in other internal parts; and this is a very powerful reason against adopting violent measures for putting a stop to, or repelling, gout, when it appears in the limbs. From the ten- dency which exists in gouty persons to the establishment of some important disease in an internal organ, the common sense of mankind has pointed out the necessity of attending to this; and hence it has shown to persons, who are the subjects of the disease, that they should rather bear the inconvenience of gout, when situated in the extremities, than run the risk of repelling it to other more important parts. Now when disease takes place in gouty individuals inter- nally, it presents the same symptoms which characterise com- mon inflammation. There are no external signs by which we can distinguish gouty inflammation in the head, chest, or abdo- men, from common inflammation; and when we come to examine the bodies of such patients after death; we are not able to distinguish the inflammation arising from other causes. There is one source of evidence in a part which is discernible externally, by which we can discover it, and that is in the iris of the eye. This is a part very liable to inflammation in gouty constitutions; and the inflammation, as it occurs in the