ON MORTIFICATION 104- Surgeryand I believe there are other catalogues of such in- stances, so that I have no hesitation in stating that, in a case of healthy constitution, where the gangrene arises from a sim- ple external cause, you may disregard the general rule I before mentioned, respecting the performance of amputation, and re- move the limb, with the effect, in many cases, of saving the patient’s life, which otherwise is inevitably lost, from the very serious nature of the affection, and the rapid way in which it extends over the limb. In elderly persons, mortification frequently attacks certain parts, more especially in the changed state of the arteries of a limb, to which I have already had occasion to advert. Morti- fication of this particular kind has been called gangrena senilis —the gangrene of old age. A portion of one of the toes, or some part of the foot, becomes livid ; the cuticle is raised by sanious fluid ; vesication takes place; the patient experiences, perhaps, little or no pain, and when you open a vesicle, on cutting through the cuticle, you will not be surprised to find that the skin, which is exposed, has completely lost its vitality. The part is completely mortified ; it goes into a state of dry gangrene. Perhaps the dead portion may be separated from the limb, and leave a healthy sore that may heal; but generally you will find that mortification will occur in some other place, and very commonly that from the part at which it begins, it extends further; so that, generally, when you see an occur- rence of that kind, you will find that the patient will die from it, although the mortification in the first instance shall appear to be very slight, and shall take place with so little local dis- turbance, and with so little constitutional affection, that you are perhaps hardly aware of the dangerous nature of the dis- ease. Sometimes this gangrene of the toes of old persons is attended with very considerable pain ; and it is this form of affection in which Mr. Pott very warmly recommended the ad- ministration of opium in very large doses, on account of the pain. With regard to local treatment, I believe you cannot do better than keep the part at rest, and covered by a soft poultice, assisting the separation by some of the means I have men- tioned. I have told you that, in general, those cases terminate fatally. When once you see that livid vesication and separation of the skin, you may consider them evidence of the deranged consti- tution of the individuals in whom the disease occurs, and how- ever trifling it may appear at the time, you will seldom find that the patient escapes. Some time ago I saw a patient in whom this had taken place on the under surface of the last phalanx of the great toe. He was a gentleman betweeu fifty and sixty