16 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. conclusions ; and in impressing the results of observation more strongly on the memory. I cannot help thinking, however, that too much importance has been attached to lectures. From the long prevalent custom of attending them, and the regulations of the public bodies which require certificates of attendance on them, before admit- ting candidates to examination, the belief seems at last to have been produced, that medical science can be learned from them alone. This is a great mistake. The medical sciences rest on observation, and are only to be acquired byresorting to nature. The great number and intricacy of the phenomena are addi- tional reasons why we should examine for ourselves, and not take the facts at second or third hand. A few cases attentively observed, will teach you more than any lectures or books. If you attend to nature with an unprejudiced mind, you cannot go astray. Lecturers and writers often copy from each other, without resorting to the fountain of knowledge. Can we won- der that they frequently mislead and deceive, instead of instructing ? Proceeding in natural order, you will begin to study external affections, and then pass to those of internal parts. In the former, the origin, progress, termination, and effects of disease, and the operation of treatment, are obvious to the senses. Here the evidence is clear; and the principles derived from this source must be applied by analogy and induction to the more obscure affections of internal organs. Hence a physician should begin by studying surgery; and he who has made himself a good surgeon, has accomplished much of what is necessary towards becoming a good physician. Do not imagine, however, that the knowledge of surgery alone will qualify you to practise physic. Internal diseases, and the more general affections, which together make up the department of the physician, form a very arduous and impor- tant branch of study, which will require much time and the closest attention. The obscure nature of inward disease renders its investigation much more difficult than that of outward affections. You will, therefore, embrace every opportunity of studying this subject practically, as well as by lectures and books. Your study of disease, gentlemen, both in nature and books, should embrace the whole range of the subject. To ihe great majority of you, who will have to act as general practitioners, this is obviously necessary; you will hardly meet with two or three cases in a hundred requiring a treatment exactly similar. I consider a comprehensive acquaintance with the entire circle of medicine equally necessary to those who mean to practice