32 NATURE AND CLASSIFICATION OF DISEASES. nished or reduced action ? And you will probably have beard so frequently of debility ; you will so frequently have read of it, and of means being adopted to remedy it, that you will probably expect a considerable class of disease to be of this character. 1 believe we can hardly say any thing satisfactory about debility, considered as the cause of disease of parts. It is true that debility is very frequently met with as the conse- quence of disease. The alterations produced by disease in a part, render it more or less unable to carry on its function, and it is said to be weakened. Disease occurring in the body ge- nerally, will often so affect the whole frame, as to induce a state of weakness. But what I mean to say is, that we very seldom, if at all, recognise debility in a part, as the cause of disease in that part, in the same way that we see excitement producing inflammation. It is true, that if cold be applied for a considerable time to a part, it will reduce, and at last entirely destroy, the action of such part. Ossification of the arteries in the extremities of old persons, seems in a somewhat similar way to give rise to a peculiar kind of inflammation, and frequently to mortification. But the debility which we so frequently talk of and read of is to be regarded as the effect of disease; and therefore it cannot be laid down as a general cause of disease. In considering the nature of diseases, debi- lity is contradistinguished to increased action. Many diseases produce a complete change in the organiza- tion of parts which they affect; these are called organic changes. In many instances, they convert an organ into a structure quite of a new kind; and in the morbid growth thus produced, you will see, perhaps, no trace of the original com- position of the organ. Examples of this kind occur in cases of cancer, fungus haematodes, tumours, encysted, and other tubercles in the viscerae; the tuberculated state which takes place in the lungs, for example, in phthisis pulmonalis. It often happens, that the phenomena of those organic changes are assimilated in a great measure to inflammation; that is, there will be increased action in the part, distention of the vessels, more or less of the characters observed in inflamma- tion ; but this is by no means general, and frequently those changes take place in a very slow manner, and without any of the obvious characters of inflammation. In the case of tu- berculated phthisis, the tubercles are often deposited, and pro- ceed to affect a great part of the lung with very few sensible symptoms. The next general head is what we have already referred to— functional derangement. That is a kind of division which we merely take in consequence of our ignorance respecting the