72 CAUSES AND EFFECTS OF INFLAMMATION. liave established the head of spontaneous, in contradistinction to accidental inflammation. Now though we cannot in many of these cases trace the ap- plication of local causes to the seat of disease, we can often discern the remote or predisposing circumstance, which we may consider to have had an influence in originating the dis- ease. We find these remote or predisposing causes also ac- tually capable of leading to the occurrence of accidental in- flammation. The most powerful and general of the predisposing causes,, whether of spontaneous or of accidental inflammation, un- doubtedly is what is called, in common language, fulness of habit, or what we technically call plethora of the system, :hat is, an unhealthy condition of the frame, produced by taling into the body an excessive quantity of new materials, b/ in- dulgence in the pleasures of the table, by eating and drinking too much. The natural supply of the frame requires, that a certain quantity of new material should be introduced into it, persons are in the habit of taking perhaps twice or three times the quantity the natural wants of the economy require; nence arises a state of repletion; the digestive organs are overloaded, and a state of repletion occurs in the sanguiferous system, which receives the new matter from the digestive organs. Persons commit errors with respect to diet, not only in quai- tity, but in quality, and both these are chiefly observed in two articles, namely, animal food and fermented liquors. It i», perhaps, rather difficult to determine what is the minimum «f supply that will keep the body in a healthy or proper state; but we have facts from which we conclude, that a much smaller quantity is sufficient for that purpose than persons are in the habit of taking. There is a celebrated example of this, which has been frequently cited in this theatre, that of Cornaro, a Ve- netian nobleman. He had been in the habit of indulging, like the rest of mankind, till he arrived at about the age of 40 years. He then lost his health, and became the subject of serious and various ailments. He in vain invoked the aid of the medical art. He then undertook his own case, and resolved to try what he could do by abstinence. By practising a system of rigid temperance, in a short time he got rid of all the symptoms he had been troubled with. He continued to pursue this course until he arrived at nearly a hundred years of age, leading a very active life, in the full enjoyment of all his powers, bodily and mental, and holding important offices in the state, and being in fact a character of considerable importance in Venice. He has left behind him a small book, entitled, “ Praises of a Sober Lifeand in that he states of himself wbat I have men-