118 inflammation; stances in which we cannot trace such a local cause. We may see a person exposed to cold, taking cold, having shiver* ings come on, and having general disturbance of a febrile cha- racter, where we cannot trace the existence of any inflamma- tion. What then are we to infer from this view? That such cases make an exception to the general law? May we not rather suspect, that we do not yet sufficiently understand them, and that we ought to mark them down as subjects for more minute investigation ? It appears to me that, to establish the existence of fever as a general disturbance, independent of local causes, it would be necessary that we should have a history of the case from day to day, so as to give us the opportunity of observing, whether the symptoms pointed out any particular local cause or not; and then that we should have an account of the dissection, with a description of the state of all the various organs of the body, whether sound or otherwise. And when we had got ma- terials of that kind, if we found cases in which febrile symp- toms have existed during life, but in which there was, on ex- amination after death, no kind of local disorder, we should admit such as instances of idiopathic fever. Idiopathic fever, however, gentlemen, belongs to the consi- deration of the physician, and not of the surgeon. The nature, the causes, and the treatment, of the cases which either belong, or are supposed to belong, to that head, are considered in the writings of physicians and in medical courses of lectures. I shall only observe to you, therefore, that, as far as I know, the nature of the febrile disturbances which are treated by the sur- geon, does not differ, essentially, from that of those which come under the care of the physician. We frequently see, as a disturbance symptomatic of local disease, a kind of fever, which, if it were contemplated by a person without the know- ledge of the existence of that local cause, would be called a typus fever, for instance. It is necessary, consequently, for you to avail yourselves of all opportunities of gaining informa- tion on these subjects from the writings and lectures of phy- sicians. Sympathetic fever does not present itself to our view under similar circumstances in all cases; it exhibits varieties in its character, which may be referred to the age of the individual, to the temperament, to the state of the constitution, to the habit of body, to the climate, to diet, to the mode of life. In the first place, certain cases of sympathetic fever are particularly marked by disturbance of the sanguiferous system, by a full, strong, and hard pulse, considerable heat of the body, and so forth. This constitutes the sympathetic inflammatory fever which I have al-i !