TREATMENT. 317 effect (that is, to find out something that should be a “specific” remedy tor the disease), that they have paid less attention than probably they ought to have done to those characters which the various forms of syphilis possess in common with other dis- eases. Supposing we put out of the question altogether, the uotion of the specific nature—the peculiar properties of the poison which the venereal disease produces, what do we see in the various symptoms that are described as constituting syphilis? We find inflammation of various textures of the body, mortification, ulceration of various characters, interstitial deposition producing enlargements, feverish disturbance of the constitution, great sufferings, emaciation, and hectic fever. Now if we were to regard these symptoms without turning our minds to the peculiar or specific nature of the cause that pro- duces them, we should immediately say in the early stage of the disease, during the inflammatory indisposition it exhibits, that the antiphlogistic treatment—often bloodletting, would be proper. We should employ those means which we consider capable of producing absorption of interstitial depositions: where there is great suffering we should use soothing narcotic means; and we should employ in that stage—where the powers of the constitution are reduced—where loss of flesh has taken place—and where there is a hectic condition, such means as are capable of restoring the general health. These are the means we should employ, if we regarded syphilis as inflam- matory merely; and I can have no difficulty in stating to you that such means may be employed with as much reliance on their efficacy in syphilitic disease, as in similar affections of the system from any other cause. Now, reduced diet is necessary for the inflammatory period of syphilitic disease. Persons must abstain from fermented liquors and solid animal food; they must take a mild and simple diet. This is a point to be particularly attended to in the treatment of the venereal disease. In some parts of the Continent, as in Germany, one plan they pursue, as an essen- tial part of the treatment, is what they call hunger-cur—that is hunger cure—cure by starvation—the employment of a very reduced diet. An account has been published of the treatment of cases in the Venereal Hospital at Paris, in which the efficacy of the vegetable or reduced diet is strikingly seen as contrasted with the employment of stimulating or animal regimen. Of 1312 cases (including both primary and secondary symptoms,) treated in the Hopital-Val de Grace, at Paris, from April 1825, to July 1827, some were treated with mercury, and some with- out. Some had animal diet, the others vegetable and mild diet—the regime vegetal et adoucissant of the French, Putting