TREATMENT OF GONORRHOEA. 365 produce the two must be different; and that there is a much greater ditference between the two affections thab can be ac- counted for amply, by the difference of the textures of the parts in which they are seated. I consider them to be totally differ- ent in their natures, and, consequently, that the causes which produce them must be equally different. A certain interval of time elapses between the application of the infection and the occurrence of gonorrhoea, a few days. Gonorrhoea generally takes place sooner after the infection than chancre; but it has been protracted for two or three weeks. In the first place a slight degree of heat, tingling, or uneasy sensation, is experienced about the orifice of the urethra. The margin of the opening swells and becomes red; that is, the lips of the urethra become tumid and red, and then very quickly the discharge shows itself. A thin yellowish fluid oozes from the urethra, soon increasing in quantity, becoming thick and yellow, sometimes having a greenish appearance, the pain and uneasiness increasing in proportion as the discharge increases. Together with these symptoms a very unpleasant sensation is experienced in making water. The passage of the urine over the inflamed surface of the urethra produces a sense of heat, burning or scalding, which has been technically called ardor urinte,—scalding in making water. This is followed by co- pious discharge from the urethra. The symptoms increase to a certain extent in violence, they last for a certain time, the pain begins to subside, the discharge diminishes in quantity, it goes away entirely, and thus gonorrhoea, if left to itself, will pursue a certain course, and altogether disappear; this process occupying a space perhaps of four, five, or six weeks. Some- times, instead of disappearing entirely, the discharge diminishes in quantity, becomes of a less bright-yellow colour, and some- times even colourless; the swelling goes off, the scalding in making water is lost, and nothing remains except this increased secretion. In this state the complaint may last a great length of time,—weeks, months, or even years; and is then techni- cally called gleet. Now, persons who catch a clap do not always get off so easily as this. What I have described to you is a sort of gen- tle clap ; the symptoms are mild ; it is a sort of middle case. But frequently the inflammation is very considerable; the glans penis swells and becomes of a bright-red colour; the lips of the urethra are particularly tumid and red ; the prepuce swells, becomes cedematous, and goes into a state of phimosis; inflam- mation extends along the whole lining of the urethra to the bladder. In the mild case I have mentioned to you, it is found, by examination, that the inflammation of the urethra does not