SCROFULA 270 can hardly be borne every day. There are many such indi- viduals to whom we should only alftnv meat every second day, and their diet on other days should consist of bread and milk, and other farinaceous articles, and well dressed vegetables and fruits. The quantity of food, of course, must be carefully attended to. Children are not able to determine this point for themselves; indeed, grown-up persons do not judge with the greatest possible propriety on that point. The time of taking food must also be attended to. In younger children, perhaps, food might be allowed four times a-day, but in those a little older, it is sufficient to allow food three times a-day, nothing being taken in the intervals between the meals. Medical Treatment.—In respect to medical treatment, we shall find that in general there is a disturbed state of the ali- mentary canal, and that frequently some part of the canal is loaded with aliment or unhealthy secretions. Our first object, therefore, is to clear it from such accumulations, and afterwards to employ such means as will strengthen it in the execution of its regular performance. Now because a patient is said to be scrofulous, and scrofu- lous subjects are said to be weak, you are not to suppose that in such a state of the alimentary canal very mild aperients will suffice. It is often requisite to employ very active and power- ful means, and even in young subjects too. This is not inva- riably, but frequently the case, and you will find it is particu- larly so if there be a foul state of the tongue, and a bad aud unnatural state of the breath, indicative of the condition of the alimentary canal, aud more especially if with these you find a tumid state of the abdomen. Then you administer calomel with rhubarb, jalap, scammony, or colocynth, or calomel with antimony, to be followed up with the usual senna draught, or a dose of castor oil; and you should repeat these, continuing them till you have cleared out the bowels completely; after this, milder medicines for a continuance will answer the pur- pose ; a grain of calomel, or a few grains of the mercury and chalk may be given twice a week, with other medicines at dif- ferent periods; rhubarb, sulphate of magnesia, and potash. The compound decoction of aloes is very good in such cases, given in the middle of the day, or a little before dinner. The object of administering these medicines after you have once cleared out the alimenlttry canal, is to insure a regular state of the bowels; not to purge them, but to see that the residue of the matter taken into the stomach is regularly expelled, which does not require very active means. Then in certain circum- stances it may be expedient to give tonic medicines, and these, if the tongue be clean, you may safely administer. If you