36 NATURE AND CLASSIFICATION OF DISEASES. lowed by others ; but I need not particularly examine their nosologies, for they are now deservedly forgotten. Professor Cullen, of Edinburgh, published a system of nosology, which has been generally adopted in this country, and which has been considered one of the best. Yet you will find, upon ex- amining it, that diseases are there brought together which have no natural affinity, and that others are separated and put into different classes which resemble each other; so that, if Cullen’s nosology be the best that exists, all I can say is, that bad is the best. Underthe head of Cachexite, which is one of his classes, and which he defines to bo depraved habit of body, he has the order intumescentiai, or swelling; in which he has brought together polysarcia, excessive fatness; pneumatosis, distention of the chest with air; tympanites, distention of the intestines; ascites, dropsy of the belly ; hydrocele, distention of the scrotum with water! His other arrangements are equally unfortunate; so that if we regard this as one of the best examples of nosological arrangement, we may safely dismiss them all; indeed, I con- ceive, the little taste that now exists for such schemes, to be a favourable sign of more rational views on the subject. It is vain to attempt arranging disease on the same princi- ples that have been followed in classifying the productions of nature, because the two cases are by no means analogous. The species of natural objects are distinctly marked out by the hand of nature, and there can be no difficulty in placing them together. No one can confound the dog, the cat, the sheep, the cow, the lion, and so forth ; but when we come to examine into what are called the species of disease, we find that, instead of being defined, like these species of natural objects, they run into each other by insensible gradations, so that it is ex- tremely difficult to point out distinctions between them. When we come to examine disease, we find it presenting itself in forms not described in books ; and it is very common to observe, that the diseases we meet with are not like those that we have read of; thus the primary grounds of division are wanting. Then if we come to the division of genera, orders, and classes, the structure and economy of animals is well known, and hence leading circumstances can be adopted as the ground of sepa- rate division in their natural history. For example, a certain description of animal feeds on vegetables, and nutrition is con- ducted on a plan called ruminating, or chewing the cud;— another class feed on animal food, and they pursue a very dif- ferent mode. Thus you have two natural classes in animals ; those called ruminating, that chew the cud, and the carnive- rous, or those that feed on their prey : and in reference to the economy of animals, the plan of their structure is arranged