VENEREAL DISEASE. 289 made of buboes, and we find clear evidence that a belief ex- isted that such appearances could be communicated from one individual to another by sexual intercourse. There is a curious document published by Astruc, who is the author of a work in which he collected together all that was known respecting the venereal disease at the time he wrote. He gives a curious document, which shews that at a period long anterior to the discovery of the West Indies, or the inva- sion of Naples, the possibility of communicating the disease in this way was recognised, and even made the basis of legal pro- visions. The document I allude to is an ordinance published by Johanna, Countess of Provence, and Queen of the Two Sici- lies, in 1347. She seems to have exercised a very maternal kind of care over the subjects committed to her charge, for this ordinance establishes a public brothel, and lays down regula- tions for its conduct and management. It seems strange that a young queen should undertake a business of this kind; but the truth is, in foreign countries there were various similar es- tablishments recognised by law ; and in this moral town itself, about the same time that Queen Johanna granted this privilege, there was a public brothel in Southwark, under the care of the Bishop of Winchester, and the regulations and laws relating to it are still extant. Now the document of Queen Johanna sets out with ordering that all the girls who resorted to the esta- blshmeut should wear a red epaulette or shoulder-knot on the left shoulder; she then points out in what part of the town it should be situated, and what is singular she directed that it should be placed near the convent of the Augustine friars—a situation that she perhaps thought would be convenient for the inmates of both establishments. But the important regulation is the fourth : she there directs that every Saturday a barber, deputed by the consul of the town, should examine all the girls in the establishment, and if it was found that any of them had contracted illness “ by fornication,” that they should be set apart from the rest, and not allowed to exercise their calling, lest the young men should contract the disease. It thus clearly appears that a knowledge existed that this particular kind of disease could be communicated from one person to another previous to the period that has generally been supposed to be the epoch of its origin. This document is dated 1387—you will find it in the work of Astruc ; and I may say, generally, that if you feel a curiosity in investigating minutely this part of the history of syphilis, you will find a collection of all the documents regarding it in that work. I do not lay so great a stress upon the silence of the older u