243 HYDROPHOBIA. the period between the infliction of the injury and the occur- rence of the symptoms is uncertain. Generally speaking, the disease shows itself in between thirty and forty days from the infliction of the wound. In a considerable number of in- stances that were collected by a medical society, the period varied from thirty one days to seventeen months. There may, possibly, be some difference in the period in cases of wounds received from different animals, but there are hardly data enough to determine that point. In fifteen patients, whose cases occurred under the observation of one surgeon, the time varied from fourteen days to fourteen weeks. Seventeen per- sons were bitten by a wolf, ten of whom had hydrophobia, one on the fifteenth day and one so late as the sixty-eighth day. Fifteen persons were bitteu by a mad dog on the 27th of Ja- nuary ; ten of them received bites on the naked flesh, and of these five died; the deaths occurred, two on the 27th of Fe- bruary and three in April. Dr. Bardsley, of Manchester, has given an account, in the Memoirs of the Literary and Philoso- phical Society of that town, of a case of hydrophobia, in which, after the most accurate inquiries he could make, he could de- tect no cause for the occurrence of the symptoms, except the bite of a dog, supposed to have been mad, which had been re- ceived twelve years previous. It has been sometimes observed, that changes take place in the part that has received the wound before the symptoms of hy- drophobia show themselves. Ordinarily speaking, the wound is completely healed, and patients have very often forgotten the occurrence of it before the hydrophobia appears. But it has been noticed, that the wound sometimes becomes a little red, or the part where the wound was is a little swelled, a little heated ; and pain is felt in the limb, shooting albng the limb towards the trunk of the body, before the hydrophobia shows itself; but in many cases nothing of this kind occurs, and pa- tients commonly have forgotten that a wound was ever recei ved. The disease has sometimes been divided into a first and se- cond stage. In fact, in the first instance, the patient usually experiences some pain in the head, some undefined indisposi- tion ; and, very soon afterwards, such a symptom as is pecu- liarly characteristic of the disease shows itself; that is, the pa- tient begins to evince that very peculiar symptom, aversion or dread of drink, and also falls into a state of high salivary ex- citation. The dread of fluids is very often discovered by the patient, accidentally, who, on proceeding to take some liquid or other, finds, on putting it to his lips, or attempting to swal- low it, the most violent convulsions of the mouth and a diffi- culty of deglutition ; and he throws away, probably with great R 2