63 ITS PHENOMENA AND DIVISIONS. producing. When causes of disease are applied to internal parts, we sometimes observe derangement in their functions without our knowing exactly whether there is a change in the condition of the parts, and we call that derangement a state of disorder, or irritation. This, probably, is the commencement of the disturbance, which, in a more advanced condition, would be considered inflammation. We sometimes see a simple state of distention in the vessels; this is called con- gestion. Sometimes that state of fulness is evinced by haemorr- hage, by the discharge of blood from the affected part. This may take place from the surface, as in mucous membranes, or into the texture of a part, as in the brain, causing apoplexy. Again, we have the effusion of serum, the effusion of lymph, the formation of pus—ulceration : these are the varieties in point of fact which characterize different degrees of inflam- mation. We have not, perhaps, any direct evidence for saying that the disturbance in a part, which we call irritation, or disorder, is actually the commencement of inflammation ; we only assume it as probable. In fact, irritation, if employed as contra-distinguished from inflammation, does not denote any definite state that I am acquainted with. Generally speaking, irritation is used to denote disturbance in the nervous system ; but if we adopt it in reference to the body generally, I think we shall be able, in most instances, to analyse it into some- thing like inflammation. Now, the various effects I have mentioned, are generally ascribed to difference in the degrees of inflammation, but not entirely so. Haemorrhage is the result of increased action, which chiefly shews itself in the mucous membranes: haemorr- hage into the substance of a part is rather an uncommon occurrence; it takes place, however, in the affections of some internal organs; it takes place into the substance of the brain and lungs, but seldom into any other part. Suppuration sel- dom takes place in internal glandular parts. If we admit the spleen to be of that character, I fancy an instance has hardly been known of abscess forming there; it is very rarely that ab- scess forms in the kidney; abscess in the liver is not common in these climates; so that there are peculiarities in the effect of inflammation which are not altogether referable to difference in degree. Inflammation, then, differs very much in its kind and cha. racter, that difference being, in great measure, dependent on the cause that produces it. I have already mentioned the differences between common and specific inflammation, and I need not advert to this again. 1 would only say that, in specific diseases, we generally find a disposition to certain