86 LECTURE Yin. Treatment of Inflammation :—Bleeding. When I spoke to you, gentlemen, in my last lecture, of the disorder of the digestive organs, or that state of the system which Dr. Barlow would have called plethora from defective excretion, 1 should have stated, that although the most com- mon cause of that condition is excessive nutrition; yet that it may occur independently of such cause—without any excess, or without any imprudence in diet. It may take place in consequence of causes which act primarily on the nervous system, and which affect the digestive organs secondarily. Under this head, we may mention neglect of exercise, indolent habits, sedentary pursuits, residence in impure air, confinement in crowded dwellings, excessive mental exertion, and con- siderable, or long continued, anxiety or affliction. Ail these causes act primarily on the nervous system, and disorder the digestive organs through the medium of that system. We see many instances in females, and even in males, where this kind of disorder arises without anything like excess, or imprudence in diet; but we are enabled to trace it very clearly to influences of the nature just described. I stated to you that considerable local injury is capable of leading to serious inflammatory disturbance in various im- portant organs of the body ; that a state of the system produced by serious local injury, such as a compound fracture, a very extensive wound, laceration, or bruise, causing the part to go into a kind of unhealthy suppuration, may create inflamma- tion of the peritoneum, pleura, or pericardium, of the lungs, heart, liver, spleen, of various articulations, and of various parts of the muscular structure. If then such important and serious disease can arise in the parts I have now mentioned, in consequence of the very active disorder excited in the system by considerable local injury, you can easily suppose that the less violent disturbance of the frame which constitutes plethora, may be capable of producing the various local in- flammations, or other diseases, which are said, in common language, to arise spontaneously, and of which pathologists have found it so difficult to explain the nature and causes. I proceed, in the next place, to speak to you of the treatment of inflammation; adverting, in the first place, to acute or active inflammation, whether it occur with or without inflam- matory fever. The view which I have already given you of