ANTIMONY, MERCURY, DIET, ETC. Ill which are most applicable. In such cases as we speak of, the neutral salts, at short intervals, will suffice, as we do not want n chronic inflammations to reduce the powers, but merely to i; obviate that disturbance in the system which the retention of faeces would occasion, and to prevent accumulation. There are ■substances which act particularly upon the large intestines, ; such as aloes and colocyntb, which we call Eccoprotics, from j fx and xowpoj, dung, or medicines which clear out the dung. ij'These, in moderate doses every day, or every other day, are to : be employed, and with them may be combined mild mercurial [ medicines, for the purpose of altering the state of the secretion in the alimentary canal. We see that when the colour of the faeces is unnatural, the exhibition of mercury, in small doses, alters it, through some effect upon the liver. Calomel, or blue -pill, with compound extract of colocyntb, or extract of rhubarb, are useful. Calomel is one of the best remedies, in small quan- tity, for this purpose; and, therefore, it is the basis of a number : of quack medicines, under the names of stomach pills, dinner , pills, &c., which are nearly all composed of calomel in conjunc- ttion with aloes. When the tongue is very foul and loaded; when the dis- charge from the bowels is very unnatural in its colour, dark, slimy, and pitchy, frequently at the same time nausea existing, t jor perhaps an unnatural or voracious appetite, it may be neces- sary to exhibit an emetic in order to clear the stomach, or at all [ events, if you do not do that, it may be well to administer an- timouy in a small quantity in conjunction with some other medicine. Under such circumstances we may exhibit two or i three grains of calomel with the same quantity of James’s [ powder made into a pill with the compound extract of colo- cyntb at night, and a dose of the infusion of senna and salts in ' the morning. Common experience has shown the advantage of combining ^different purgatives, although we cannot altogether explain this advantage. We do sometimes give those medicines singly, ebut very often we find it useful to combine them. We find that ■ a combination of several of them will produce the beneficial effects which they are not capable of producing singly; and this is accounted for by our acquaintance with the fact 1 have men- tioned, of the purgatives producing their effects in various ways. After clearing the alimentary canal, it may be expedient to ad- minister mercury, in what is called the alterative form; that means, the administration of mercury, calomel, or blue pill, in small doses, and continued for a considerable time. Five grains of the blue pill, or Plummer’s pill, or a grain, or two grains, of calomel may be administered in this way at bed-tune, every