HYDROPHOBIA. 849 duces but a trifling effect. When a considerable number of those stings are received, very serious consequences may be produced in the animal economy. 1 think it is said that the • stings of about twenty hornets, and those of a few wasps, are •sufficient to sting a horse to death. A case was lately men- tioned, which excited considerable interest, of a gentleman in :Fruuce, who was walking in his garden with his morning-gown on, and his breast open. A large bee-hive was upset, and he ran to put it right again; the bees fixed upon him, and stung him about the throat and chest; he immediately ran into the house, and the persons around him endeavoured to liberate him from the insects us soon as they could, but be said be felt : himself sinking, or dyiug, and, iu fact, this was the case. The action of the heart became very much enfeebled, the pulse sank, the breathing became interrupted, anxiety, agitation, and alarm .arose, and he died in about ten or fifteen minutes. There are certain insects which bite, and which do no sting ; that is, they make a small wound, but no venomous or acrid :substance is introduced into the wound. This is the case with !the flea, bug, gnat, scorpion, &c. The bites of these insects jproduce slight inflammation, somewhat similar to that of the liDsects I have before named ; but a great number of them may ; be inflicted, without producing any very considerable effect. LECTURE XX. Hydrophobia continued—Bites of Venomous Serpents—Injuries received in Dissection— Malignant Pustules. I mentioned to you, gentlemen, in the last lecture, that hydrophobia can only be produced by the application of the saliva of a rabid animal to a recent wound. You may, probla- bly, have inferred from this statement, although 1 did not specifically mention it, that the saliva of a rabid animal, in producing the disease, does not act through any other medium, than that of a recent wound. It may, for example, he applied with impunity to the entire surface of the skin, the skin covered with its cuticle ; and it may also be applied with impunity to the surface of mucous membranes. It does not produce disease by either of these modes of application. Bites of Venomous Serpents.—A very active poison, that is,