HERNIA IIU MORA LIS. 373 are liable to severe inflammation of the eyes—to severe inflam- mation of the mucous membrane of the eyes, and to a serious affection of the sclerotica, sometimes extending to the iris, that is, to the fibrous textures of the eye; sometimes the one and sometimes the other occurs, the complaint in the urethra being diminished, but the discharge still going on more or less during those affections. These inflammations of the eye, I shall have occasion to speak of when 1 come to speak of the affections of the eye. in the same individual in whom such affection has occurred, in consequence of gonorrhoea, it will almost invari- ably happen, that a rheumatic affection of the joints will also take place, very commonly of the knees, feet, and ancles, and indeed other affections which certainly pretty closely resemble rheumatism, so that these have been not inaptly denominated gonorrhoeal rheumatism. When this occurs in the feet, you find that a particular tumefaction of them, a kind of CBdematous swelling, which, in common life, is described as rheumatic gout. These affections of the joints will extend from one joint to another. One joint may get better, and others may become affected. In fact, in the extension of the disease from one joint to another, the shifting of the disease, the affection certainly possesses nearly all the characters of rheumatism. Such affec- tions of the joints may take place in conjunction with those of the eyes, or in alteration with, or in succession to them. In treating them, you are to bear in mind the peculiar con- stitution from which this succession of symptoms derives its origin. You are not to be contented with the local means which the state of the joint requires; you must bear in mind the state of the constitution. In the first place, it may be neces- sary to take blood from the arm; it would be proper to eva- cuate the alimentary canal by purgatives with antimony; and after adopting these means 1 think you will considerably abridge the duration of the disease by giving mercury ; you will lessen the intensity of the symptoms, and thereby prevent those important effects, when a limb is the seat of affection, which often take place under these circumstances; there would be no objection to carry the medicine to the extent of affecting the mouth. The colchicum is usually employed in these cases. So far as local treatment goes, you will find that cupping or leeches, and fomentations, will be advantageous; but you will also find, that these local remedies will not answer the pur- pose without the adoption of the more general means which I have pointed out to you. Such complaints are exceedingly tedious, as must be all complaints in joints which arise from constitutional causes. As we cannot speedily alter the state of