HERNIA HUMORALIS. 372 to prevent their recurrence. Some have recommended the application of strong acids to them; and Mr. Carmichael speaks in great praise of the acetic acid, which acts as any other acid would do as an escharotic, in destroying the vitality of the part. Hernia Humor a l is.—In the course of gonorrhoea it is not un- common to have the discharge suddenly stopped, and inflam- mation and swelling produced, with great pain in one of the testicles; and this particular kind of inflammation of the testicle has been called hernia humoralis. It is, in fact, an active inflammation of the gland. The part swells, becomes very painful, and if the inflammation be considerable, the scrotum which covers it assumes a bright-red colour. When the inflammation, too, is considerable, it is communicated to the loose cellular texture of the scrotum, so that its integuments become, in some degree, fixed to the part. Severe pain is felt in the part, more particularly as long as the patient is in the upright position. The discharge from the urethra generally stops entirely. You must treat this inflammation by the ordinary antiphlo- gistic means: free bleeding of the part by leeches, fomenta- tions, poultices, enforcement of the recumbent position, and cleansing of the bowels. Sometimes you apply leeches pretty freely and repeatedly, and yet you do not succeed in putting a stop to the inflammation; the part remains inflamed and very painful. Under such circumstances you derive great advantage from the free employment of tartar emetic to the extent of producing vomiting. You may give half an ounce of the liquor antimonii tartarisatum of the Pharmacopceia, which contains a grain of the tartar of antimony, and repeat that every four hours, so as to keep up a continual nausea. From this you will find great benefit; indeed, this treatment is very frequently resorted to for the purpose of relieving hernia humoralis ; and I have seen some instances where great pain and inflammation, which had remained in spite of the applica- tion of leeches, yield by the employment of emetic tartar in the way I have just mentioned. It is necessary for the patient to remain in the recumbent position until the swelling has com- pletely abated ; at all events, if patients who have been con- fined for hernia humoralis get up too soon, if they attempt to go about their ordinary occupation too speedily, they very commonly bring on a relapse of all the symptoms, so that on this head great caution is necessary. There are other and more serious circumstances arising from gonorrhoea when it takes place in particular constitutions, those, for instance, of a rheumatic disposition ; such persons