ON SUPPURATION AND 13G in an unimportant part, you may leave it to itself—allow nature do the business. But there is a variety of cases in which you wish to abridge the period of inflammation, or to limit its extent; and for these purposes it becomes necessary that you should resort to the measure of artificially opening the abscess. I have stated to you, generally, that the matter of an abscess gradually approaches to the surface of the body ; but when the matter is formed deeply in a part, and wheu it meets, in its progress to the surface, with certain textures of an unyielding kind, it cannot approach to the skin, or, at all events, its approach is considerably retarded ; and being resisted in this direction, it extends to other parts where less resistance is offered. Thus, when matter is formed under fascia—the fascia of the thigh, for example, a very tough and unyielding part—it will be a long time before it can make its way through that fascia; and not being able readily to get through, it extends under it, and the abscess becomes much larger in size than it would be but for this circumstance. When matter forms deeply in a limb, for instance under the muscles, it meets with more or less resistance, and in this way, either from its being resisted by thick unyielding fascia or tendons, its progress to the surface is retarded. Under all these circumstances, it be- comes proper to make an opening for the discharge of the mat- ter, as soon as you can satisfy yourselves that matter exists; and we, therefore, early open an abscess, if it takes place in the fore-arm, or in the thigh, and more particularly if it takes place either in the palm of the hand or sole of the foot. There is a very dense fascia covering those parts, and the integuments and cellular substance also are particularly firm and unyielding, so that matter does not come to the surface when it forms there; on the contrary, being deep-seated and confined by fascia, it makes its way along the course of the tendons, passing under the annular ligament—for instance, of the wrist into the fore- arm, and producing very extensive mischief. You must, therefore, as early as possible, open an abscess in those places; and sometimes, when you cannot feel the fluctuation, when you cannot ascertain, by external examination, that any matter is actually formed, even then you must make an opening. The same observation applies still more forcibly to matter formiug about the periosteum ; for there the matter is confined by a firm texture, and if it is not let out, it extends to the whole line of the bone. When active inflammation takes place in a part where there is a large quantity of cellular tis- sue, there the abscess will become considerable, unless you discharge it early. This is the case about the anus and the