250 BITES OF VENOMOUS SERPENTS. a poison capable of producing very serious effects in other ani- mals through the medium of wounds, is produced by certain serpents. In this respect the serpent tribe consists of two divisions. The one class are quite innocent, those of the other secrete this peculiarly virulent poison, which, when applied to a recent wound in man or beast, produces effects as fatal as those that take place in hydrophobia. The effect, in fact, in the case of a bite received from a venomous serpent, is pro- duced more quickly. The same interval of time which occurs after the bite of a rabid animal, does not take place in the in- stance I am now alluding to. In the venomous serpents there is a glandular apparatus in the neighbourhood of the jaw, which secretes the poisonous or acrid fluid. The duct of that gland runs through the centre of what is called the poisonous fang of the serpent. The poisoned fang of the serpent is a very long and sharp-pointed tooth, which is hollow, internally ; in fact, the hollow of this tooth is a continuation of the excretory duct of the poisonous gland, so that, when the serpent bites, the poison in this gland passes through the fang into the wound which is inflicted by it. In this respect, you will find that there is a marked difference between the teeth of the innocent and venomous serpent. In the engraving I shall now send round, you will see a represen- tion of the head of the boa-constrictor, a very large kind of the class which is innocent. In the lower jaw, you will observe, that there are four rows of teeth, two towards the palate, and two towards the front of the jaw. In the upper figure, which represents the head of a rattle-snake, which is a poisonous ser- pent, you will find that there are only two of those parallel rows, namely, the palatine teeth, and that, instead of the others, there is simply a large fang, projecting towards the edge of the mouth, and this is the poison fang. So that, if you could see the open mouths of serpents, you would immediately be able to discover whether they were innocent or poisonous. This fact, however, so far, is not very material, for one cannot exactly take hold of the head of a serpent and open its mouth for the purpose of examining its teeth. There is a large variety of the venomous serpents. The rattle-snake is a well-known serpent, which is found extensively on the continent of North America. Its venomous power is very considerable. In the East Indies there are several kinds ofveno- mous serpents, but their fatal power varies very considerably. There is one, commonly known by the name of “ cobra di capello.” It is called in English the spectacled or hooded serpent; for, immediately before it is going to bite, it corrugates and curls itself up, and there appears to be a swelling just be-