INFLAMMATION. 64' changes in each case; in syphilis, for instance, we find that inflammation generally terminates in ulceration; in scrofula, the formation of abscess; and the deposition of tubercles in various organs, are the most ordinary termination. In common inflammation, there is generally an uniform progress of the affection from its first commencement to its termination. In specific, there are frequent irregularities. The particular sudden disappearance of the inflammation, or deli- tescence, is frequently observed. This is the case in gouty and rheumatic inflammations. It is by no means uncommon in them, to have the inflammation suddenly stopped in one part, and as suddenly appear in another; and this has been called metastasis, which has been considered to denote a translation of the disease. The idea which has been entertained of metas- tasis is, that the diseased matter which was seated in one organ, has been conveyed to another part of the body. It is a notion founded on the old ideas of humoral pathology. Now, without entertaining any such mechanical idea of it, I may mention to you that it frequently happens in gouty inflamma- rnation, that the inflammation quickly disappears from one part, and another becomes as quickly affected. Indeed, that is all we can say about it; for how it happens, we are totally unable to explain. A person who has swelling of various joints, will have those swellings suddenly removed, and per- haps immediately afterwards inflammation comes on in the lungs or heart; and it is this liability to metastasis, that con- stitutes a particular danger in such cases. These then are some of the material points in which inflam- mations differ from each other. There are some few others which it is only necessary for me to advert to generally. There are diversities according to temperament, age, sex, mode of life, and diet. Inflammations are also modified by the state of the climate, and condition of the atmosphere. Certain pecu- liarities in the atmosphere are capable of exercising a marked influence over inflammatory diseases; hence we find that, under certain circumstances, particular kinds of inflammation will take place in large numbers: as in hospitals, you will find at times a great number of cases of erysipelas. I shall proceed with the Causes of Inflammation at our next meeting.