188 ULCERATION. destructive progress of the sore very soon stopped, and it healed quite favourably. It may happen generally, when inflamma- tion in this kind of sore is completely removed, when there is no longer pain, and yet where the healing process does not commence, that you will find it necessary to have recourse to some local stimulus, and I believe a mercurial application is the best. The black wash is one of a mild kind ; and the cin- nabar fumigation is another of a more active character. What is called sloughing phagedena, seems to be that un- healthy state of a sore which 1 have now described, carried to a greater extent—phagedena gangrenosa—a mixture of the pha- gedenic ulceration, with a sloughing of the sore. Now the in- stances of this which we see in this hospital, are chiefly in young females who devote themselves to prostitution. We are not in the habit of seeing it in male subjects; in fact, men are not exposed to that particular combination of causes which produces sloughing phagedena in these unfortunate young women. But it happens, I think, chiefly in some of the younger members of that sisterhood, who frequent some of the lowest haunts—who lead the most irregular lives—who are exposed to the cold from want of proper covering, and, indeed, to all the causes that tend to depress the system; and especially those who attempt to struggle against these depressing influences by the use of stimulating spirits. It is in these, particu- larly, that this destructive sloughing phagedena shows itself. They have gonorrhoea, perhaps, or sores attended with a dis- charge. Now it so happens, from the configuration of the female organs of generation, that that discharge and moisture are not always evacuated, but are apt to collect about those parts ; the parts become irritated and excoriated, and then fall into the state of ulceration l am about to describe to you. The surface of the sore exhibits a reddish or brownish, sometimes yellowish colour, as if from the intermixture of matters; and we find, on examining it, that there is a kind of pulpy mass covering the living parts ; so that what you see is not, in fact, what you would probably call the surface of the ulceration, but is a kind of unnatural decomposed state of textures, pro- duced by the action of the sloughing phagedenic character, and closely adhering to the living textures. There is a yellow- ish appearance—frequently a thick yellowish appearance, as if from a layer of matter, on these sores, and you conceive that you can wipe it off with a probe and lint; but when you come to attempt it, you will find this cannot be done; in fact, the external surface of the sore is covered by a substance which is brownish, reddish, and sometimes actually black, being portions of slough. From these sores there exudes a large quantity of