ON ULCERATION. 168 is called, by Mr. Hunter, ulcerative absorption; that is, the removal of parts by the absorbents, where an external breach of surface is produced by the loss of substance; or, simply, it may be called ulceration. Now this kind of absorption, like the former, is preceded by inflammation; the part is first red, hotter than usual, slightly swelled; interstitial deposition takes place into it, by which its textures become much consolidated and thickened ; and by which the blood-vessels and absorbents, which, in the progress of the absorption, will afterwards have to be separated, are completely blocked up. In ulcerative absorption, as the loss of substance commences, of course, on the surface, the blood- vessels and absorbents which are in the part that is to be re- moved must be divided, and the adhesive inflammation which precedes the act of ulcerative absorption obliterates those ves- sels, so that there is no escape of blood or of fluid from them when the process of ulceration actually divides them. In this case of ulcerative absorption, there is the formation of matter in the breach of surface which is produced by it, and that cir- cumstance distinguishes this front the preceding kind of ab- sorption. In progressive absorption there is no formation of matter as the parts are removed, nor is there any in what Mr. Hunter called intersticial absorption. But in ulcerative absorption, that is, where parts are removed in a way to produce external breach or loss of substance, there the removal is accompanied by a formation of matter on the surface that has been exposed. Ulceration, then, may be stated generally to be the removal, by the absorbents, of a portion of the body, causing an external breach of substance, or solution of continuity, as it is techni- cally termed, and accompanied by the formation of matter. The process of ulceration does not consist in erosion, as has sometimes been supposed; that is the textures of the body which are removed are not technically acted upon by any acrimonious or corrosive property of pus, because pus possesses no such property. It is a perfectly bland and mild fluid ; it has no solvent power over the substance of the body ; in fact, if pus had this acrimonious or corrosive power, there would be no limit to the mischief whenever ulceration commenced ; for, in the case of ulceration, the surface is constantly moistened by pus ; and if it were to continue to corrode the surface, there would be no limit whatever to the process of destruction. The progress of ulceration, the circumstances under which it arises, and the general phenomena of the affection, are very various— those varieties depending on the difference of structure in the parts which are the seat of the disease; on differences in the