330 VENEREAL DISEASE. does not bear the general administration of mercury. You may employ mercury locally,—you may apply the black-wash to the parts. You will resort to narcotics to relieve the pain which accompanies the phagedenic character. You may employ sar- saparilla internally, and such other means as particular symp- toms may require; these constitute the treatment of phagedenic chancre. You will very often find that the ulcerative process will take its course, so as to destroy the glans, or the prepuce, or both, without your being able to counteract it; and you would not do any good by administering mercury; but, under such cir- cumstances, you might aggravate the mischief. Now it does sometimes happen, however, that when a state of active pha- gedenic ulceration is going on rapidly, and parts are being destroyed by it, you can arrest the progress of the disease by the exhibition of mercury. When there is a simple phagedenic state of the chancre, when there is nothing like sloughing to be observed, when there is nothing but ulcerative absorption, and the consquent destruction of parts by it, without any consider- able redness or swelling in the surrounding parts,—without any considerable constitutional disturbance, but the destructive process going on rapidly, you may find it expedient to exhibit, and sometimes you may succeed in stopping the progress of the affection by the active exhibition of mercury. I acknowledge it would be difficult to point out the distinction between these,—to say precisely what is the kind of phagedenic ulcera- tion in which you ought to use mercury, and what is the kind in which you ought not. It is a difficulty that can only be overcome by experience; but I thiuk it right to say that there are such cases. I wouid say, that you should, in the first place, endeavour to relieve and stop the progress of the disease by an- tiphlogistic treatment; that you should take blood from the arm, and endeavour to arrest the progress of the affection by such means. Supposing you do not succeed, then I thiuk you may properly try the mercury in a decisive form; and here you would give the remedy in pretty considerable doses, and frequently repeat them,—two, three, or four grains of calomel every eight, six, or four hours; and if you found you did not do any good by that, then you must have recourse to the sooth- ing plan of treatment 1 have already described.