240 HYDROPHOBIA. the wolf, the fox, and the cat. Now the three first are very nearly allied in species, and, in fact, they are capable of breed- ing with each other. The late Duke of Richmond lost his life in consequence of hydrophobia contracted from the bite of a fox in Canada. The wolf suffers very much from hydrophobia. Numerous cases occur in those European countries which wolves inhabit in great abundance, of hydrophobia being com- municated to dogs and other animals by the wolf. Many ex- periments were made at the veterinary school at Alfort, to ascer- tain if it could be communicated by herbiverous animals, and professor Dupin found, that when a sponge, moistened with the saliva of a sheep or a cow labouring under hydrophobia, was applied to a recent wound of the same kind of animal, no disease was communicated. The professor observed, too, that if a sponge, moistened with the saliva of a rabid dog, was so applied, the disease was then communicated. He found that when sheep, affected with hydrophobia, were allowed to mix with the flock, no injury was sustained; that they did not attempt to bite or do any mischief to the other animals near them. I believe no instance is on record af its communication to the human subject through any other than one of the four animals I have mentioned. I believe it is not likely to be com- municated by quadruped herbiverous animals, for it is not the practice of these animals to bite in defence; and as the saliva alone of these animals could produce the disease, the absence of the disposition to bite prevents the chance of its communi- cation. it is an important question to ascertain, whether the disease can be communicated from one human being to another, or from the human species to brute animals. But there is no in- stance known in which it has been communicated from one human being to another. Great fear has been excited, however, on this point. It has been supposed, that persons labouring under hydrophobia, are disposed to bite and snap at others, and that great danger would arise of communicating the disease in this way. But, in the first place, it is not a common thing for a human being to have the disposition to bite, and, probably, if a bite took place, no effect would be produced by it. In fact, numerous experiments of this kind have been made on animals; that is, the saliva of a human being labouring under hydrophobia, has been inserted into the recent wounds of va- rious animals, but these experiments have all failed, except in one instance, and that is mentioned by Majendie and Breschet. They took the saliva of a patient labouring under hydrophobia in the IIotel-Dieu, and applied it to the recent wounds of two dogs : they did this on the 19th of June. On the 26th of July, i