ULCERATION. 187 by it, and, in fact, you find it necessary to resort to other measures, besides those, for combating' the inflammation. After you have adopted those preliminary measures, and carried them as far as you think fit, the most effective mode of ' treatment then, consists in the local and general employment of opium, and that in a very free way. The severe pain which accompanies those cases may originally have indicated the ex- ternal and internal employment of opium, which very soon puts a stop to that symptom. The internal application puts a stop to the general symptoms; and the local application has a beneficial effect on the phagedena. You give a grain of opium, five grains of the pilula sapones cum opio, for example, every six hours, so as to keep the patient under the influence of it; you may also apply such means as are calculated to prevent costiveness, although very commonly the employment of opium in these doses does not occasion costiveness. You apply to the part the liquor opii sedativus, (made by Battley); you employ it by diluting it to the extent of one-half with distilled water; if necessary, however, you may employ the liquor opii simply on lint, and cover the part with a bread-and-water poultice. By this mode of treatment you will find the most beneficial effect produced in these painful and phagedenic ulcers. I have lately had several cases of this kind under my care, in which the advantage of this treatment has been exemplified. One young man came to the hospital who had the glans penis and prepuce uniformly swelled, and about two-thirds of the glans had mortified; part of the slough had detached, and that part presented the phagedenic character just mentioned. There was a high state of inflammation of the prepuce, and the sore below had the character I have stated. The treatment which I have mentioned was immediately adopted in that case, and in about three days the surface, both of the prepuce and the glans, had as completely a healthy character as I ever saw in ulcera- tion. The healing went on favourably throughout, and the patient was very quickly well, if we except the loss I have mentioned ; and as that part had mortified before be came to the hospital, of course we could not help that. At the same time there was another patient in the hospital, who came in with extensive sores on the prepuce, inconsequence of moisture having formed between its two layers. It was necessary to lay the prepuce open; and wheu that was done, there appeared to be an unhealthy sore on the inner side of the prepuce. Here the balsam of Peru first, and subsequently mercurial embroca- tions were tried; but this stimulating treatment, 1 think, increased the mischief. The soothing treatment of opium, both internally and externally, was then had recourse to, when the