219 AMPUTATION Toulouse, tbe battle of New Orleans, and some others that occurred towards the close of the last campaign, this compari- son was very accurately made. The result of all tbe ampu- tations performed immediately on the field of battle, or very soon afterwards, was ascertained, as also was the result of all the amputations performed at a remote period; and it was found that the number of deaths in the delayed cases was nearly double those after the early amputations. The result, therefore, was very much in favour of the latter. Still that does not give you the true comparison between the two modes of proceeding. What you want to know is this:—Supposing you have a hundred patients requiring amputation, you take fifty of them aud amputate immediately, leaving the other fifty to be amputated upon some weeks afterwards. Will you save the greater number out of the first fifty, or out of the second? Recollect, that out of those in which you delay the operation, there is a certain number that will unquestionably die in the mean time, from the effects of the accident. They do not, in fact, live to allow of the operation being performed. To the number of deaths out of the second fifty, therefore, you must add those who die before the operation is performed, and then the case becomes still more in favour of early amputation. This point has been placed, by the experience of English and French army surgeons, in the course of the last war, in so striking a light, that there can be no further question upon it. In addition to the ample experience to be thus derived, it would be of little use to mention the more limited experience that has occurred to myself. In fact, we have not, in very many cases in civil practice, the opportunity of performing operations after accidents. I have, however, in the course of a great number of years, performed no inconsiderable number of operations immediately after serious injuries ; and I may mention to you, that the same'observation applies to cases of compound fracture, as to cases of gun-shot wounds ; the result of the immediate operations has been, in genera), very satis- factory. But suppose you were to consider the matter without any reference to experience at all; should you expect that a person, whether in high health or not, would bear best, the simple and clean cut of an amputation, or the extensive lace- ration and contusion, with splintering of bone, and perhaps exposute of a joint, from a serious gun-shot wound? To my mind, there can be no hesitation in saying, that the simple cut of amputation is much the less serious of the two; that the patient is much more likely to go through the operation safely and well, and have his life preserved, than when exposed to