PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF FEVER. 113 • not find such remedies in the materia tnedica. There are tonics |; and stimulants, there are medicines of this and medicines of 11 that class to be found in abundance, but I believe there are three things which do not beloug to the materia medica that I may mention, with reference to the particular point under con- sideration, and which very far outweigh any of the articles to be found there. These are, residence in pure air, exercise of it! body, and tranquillity of mind. LECTURE X. Inflammation;—Pathology and Treatment of Fever. In speaking, gentlemen, on the subject of local applications ;!to inflamed parts in the last lecture, I omitted one class of E: those to which some persons attach great importance, that is |;poultices—one of the means by which warmth, or rather, ■warmth in combination with moisture, is applied to inflamed I organs. I believe we are only to regard these as means of ap- i , plying a certain degree of warmth to the part, and they are | only valuable, inasmuch as they contribute in certain cases to issoothe the local pain which patients experience in inflamma- tions. We cannot ascribe to them any great virtue in arrest- ing the inflammations. If patients are rendered for some time easier by their application, it is as much praise as we can pro- ! bably ascribe to them. The ordinary forms of poultice are : those made of crumb of bread, or of linseed powder, respecting which it may be necessary to take care that the poultice be rendered very soft—that there should be nothing harsh, no dry ^fragments in it—that it should be altogether soft, so as to be ^applied easily to the part. I fancy no particular effect is pro- iduced by medicating poultices in the way frequently pro- posed; neither do I rely on their “drawing”as they are sup- ;posed to do •, they are only to be regarded as soft, warm appli- i cations. In speaking to you of the means which are to be adopted in order to correct that deranged state of the digestive organs, "which must be considered as a remote cause of many local dis- eases, I should have observed, that frequently after the employ- ment of aperient medicines, by which the alimentary canal has been sufficiently' cleared out, the weakened state of the sto- mach, requires the addition of mild aperients and subsequently I