VENEREAL DISEASE. 299 ncilitate the cure under certain circumstances, is not absolutely necessary to be employed. In other countries, as well as in '.bis, similar investigations have been made, and with similar -esults; and the consequence of these investigations has been ertainly a great revolution of opinion on the subject, and a ©responding change of practice. In consequence of this Iteration of opinion, persons who have venereal diseases, s re now no longer doomed to go through those long and very .evere courses of mercury to which they were subjected, when liaercury was supposed to be a specific, and absolutely necessary or the cure of the disease. In a great many forms of venereal disease the employment of mercury is almost entirely aban- doned; and in those cases in whicb it is still given, it is used .lore moderately. Some have even gone farther; and I may mention that Dr. John Thomson, the present teacher of medicine ,a Edinburgh—a person whose medical learning and expe- dience, and judgment, need no commendation of mine—has ong adopted the non-mercurial treatment of syphilis; and, for considerable number of years—I believe I may say, has entirely discarded mercury, both for primary and secondary affections :f all kinds; administering mercury in no form of venereal isease ; and he considers that the patients recover much better .without it. He is of opinion that many of the affeetions, egarded as the secondary symptoms of syphilis, especially the iiore aggravated forms of them, are owing to the use of mer- ury, an opinion in which I do not altogether concur ; nor can agree with him in discarding mercury from our treatment of •ypbilis altogether. I have seen so many instances iu which -he efficacy of the remedy has been undoubted; I have seen so > aany cases in which the disease might get well without mer- cury, but in which it has got better, more quickly, and with ess effect on the constitution, than without mercury, that '-trough I fujly agree in the modified employment of mercury, nd in the propriety of using it more sparingly, 1 cannot go so ir as to discard it from practice altogether. I still think it a 3aluable remedy, capable of being very useful in the treatment sf venereal diseases.