INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. 14 exactly according to the description, the operator, ignorant of anatomy, is immediately confused, embarrassed, frightened. In most cases, too, unless the knife be guided by minute ana- tomical knowledge, operations are attended, not only with unnecessary suffering and risk to the patient, but also with the greatest danger to the reputation of tbe'operator. I trust, gentlemen, that you will not be anxious to discover how small a stock of scientific knowledge will enable you to carry on the trade of surgery. Your more honourable way will be to render yourselves accurate anatomists, as the most essen- tial step towards becoming good surgeons. The health, the limbs, the lives of our fellow-creatures, are entrusted to our care, with a confidence in our knowledge, skill, and humanity; our utmost exertions and most anxious toil after information will not do more than enable us to undertake this serious responsibility. What kind of feelings, what conscience can the man possess who can plunge an instrument into the human body without knowing what he may divide or injure? Who can operate without that full anatomical knowledge, that will enable him to meet every emergency ? How could he bear his own reflections, if serious and permanent injury, or loss of life, should ensue, as the consequence of his ignorance and rashness ? But the study of anatomy and physiology does not make us acquainted with disease: you may know the structure and functions of an organ perfectly, and yet be ignorant of its diseases. How, then, are those to be learned : Not from lec- tures, nor from writings; but by studying the great book of nature. You must frequent the hospital and the sick chamber, and observe diseases for yourselves. Lectures and books are auxiliaries, and, under certaiu circumstances, very useful ones; but they are of secondary importance compared to actual observation. To know disease, then, you must see, examine, and closely watch patients; you must observe the origin and progress of the altered functions during life, and then investigate, after death, the changes produced in the organisation. Here your knowledge of anatomy and physiology will be of the greatest service. How can you appreciate the effect of disease, unless you know the healthy structure ? How can you refer the altered functions or symptoms to the organic changes which have pro- duced them, especially in internal organs, unless you know the healthy functions ? The general doctrines of disease and treat- ment can only be judged by the lights of anatomy and physio- °|0gy; the greatest portion of medical theories is obviously unable to bear this scrutiny, and may be at once dismissed.