176 ON REPRODUCTION. centre of the sore. The granulations are absorbed in propor- tion as the cicatrix forms over them, and thus the surrounding skin is drawn in, and usually becomes more or less puckered, in consequence of this drawing together. The effect of this contraction of the skin is so considerable, that the cicatrix is, perhaps, not more than a third or a fourth in extent, compared with the original size of the sore. A sore may have been of four inches in length; and when it is completely healed may, perhaps, be reduced to two inches, or to one inch in length, and proportionally reduced in all its other directions. Now this is a circumstance of great consequence, because the cica- trix which remains after ulceration, is a part of weaker vitality than the other surfaces of the body, and, of course, it is im- portant to have that weaker part of as little size as possible. This absorption, and the drawing together of the neighbouring parts of the skin over the sore, accomplishes that very use- ful end. We see, then, that the granulations which fill the sore during the healing process, serve the particular purpose of this restora- tion, and then they are removed. They seem to constitute a kind of temporary structure, organised in order to answer a particular end, and are disposed of as soon as that end is obtained. Reproduction of Lost Parts—Now a question has arisen respecting the degree in which lost parts of the body are repro- duced. When surgeons observed a large excavation in a limb, for instance, produced by ulceration; when they saw granulations in that excavation, and the part cicatrising over, they concluded that that substance which had been lost, in consequence of the ulceration, was restored or reproduced by the granulations; and they fancied that in each case the par- ticular textures that had been removed in the process of ulcer- ation, were restored in this way. For instance, that muscle was deposited, if muscle had been involved in the ulceration; and that cellular membrane or skin, where such had beeu re- moved, &c. Others took a different view of the subject, and stated, that the filling up of the chasm in each case arose from the subsidence of parts which were preternaturally swollen around ; and they even denied the process of reproduction alto- gether. That reproduction takes place to a certain extent there can be no doubt, for we see a quantity of new substance under the form of granulations deposited in the chasm formed by ul- ceration, and filling it up. That there is a deposition of new matter, to a certain extent, cannot be contested. However, the limit of reproduction is easily ascertained in the human i body. No entire part is reproduced when once lost. The only