370 PHIMOSIS—PARAPHIMOSIS. and ulcerations of the tonsils; but the cure of these does not require the use of mercury ; the antiphlogistic treatment ac- complishes all that is necessary. There are some other circum- stances occasionally observed in cases of gonorrhoea; the in- flammation of the mucous membrane of the urethra may cause swelling and inflammation of the glands in the groin ; that is, may cause bubo. If you adopt the antiphlogistic measures which the local symptoms require, and keep the patient at rest, you will not be much troubled with buboes of this kind ; at all events, the treatment is to be conducted, first, upon the ordinary principles. Phimosis.—The inflammation of the prepuce, if it goes to a considerable extent, will cause phimosis,contraction of thelin- ing of the prepuce, and particularly of the orifice, so that the prepuce cannot be drawn back over the glans. You must em- ploy, here, local means to reduce the inflammation, and you will not find that phimosis is a serious symptom in a case of clap. It is necessary, in order to lessen the inflammation,under such circumstances, not merely to adopt the local antiphlogistic means we are in the habit of using, but frequently to syringe under the prepuce, to prevent the accumulation there of gonorr- hoeal discharge. The retention and soaking of that discharge beneath the prepuce, irritates the delicate covering of the glans and the lining of the prepuce; it augments the inflammation of those parts, and may lead to serious ulcerations and other bad consequences ; hence it is necessary to practise ablution care- fully by means of a syringe. Paraphimosis.—The opposite state—paraphimosis, may arise either in gonorrhoea, or when sores exist upon the parts in con- sequence of syphilis; that is, supposing the orifice of the pre- puce to have become contracted by inflammation, and the pa- tient withdraws it for the purpose of using some sort of wash, wishing to expose the glans penis, and leaves it withdrawn, the pressure which the contraction exerts over the prepuce behind the glans, occasions the glans to swell, and get into that state which prevents the prepuce being again drawn over it; that is the condition called paraphimosis. If the part remain in this state for some time, considerable swelling and inflammation of the glans will take place. The pressure from the contracted orifice of the prepuce becomes more considerable; it forms a deep fissure behind the corona glandis, as if the penis were tied by a tight string. When you see a case of this kind within three or four days of the occurrence of the paraphimosis, you will seldom fail in restoring the glans to its natural situation. In the first place, you may get a bason of cold water, and let the patient, with a sponge or piece of lint, bathe the part, so as