296 VENEREAL DISEASE. been a generally prevailing opinion. It was entertained by Astruc, it was entertained by Hunter, and it is the basis on which all the reasonings, in his work on the venereal disease, proceeds. It was entertained by Mr. Abernethy, adopted by him from Mr. Hunter, and it was the foundation of those opinions which Mr. Ahernethy has promulgated, and the basis of the opinions he, from time to time, delivered on this point. Now the once very extensive prevalence of this completely erroneous notion, and the firm faith with which it was held, are calculated, in my opinion, to teach us a very salutary lesson, that of examining for ourselves, generally-received doctrines; that of placing very little confidence in the opinions of the greatest names, when they relate merely to matters of opinion. Inasmuch as this notion of the progressively destructive nature of syphilis, except cured by mercury, has been entirely re- nounced—of course the various notions built on that opinion respecting the nature of syphilis, and the diseases resembling itj may be all set aside, and completely discarded from the surgical vocabulary. A variety of words that were found in the writings of those persons, such as lues syphilis, lues syphilodes, pseudo-syphilis—all these are expressions which have no clear meaning, but are expressions found in the earlier writers, upon the erroneous notion 1 have stated ; we may, therefore, discard them entirely; they have no other effect, in my opinion, than that of increasing the perplexity of a subject, which, of itself, is sufficiently difficult. The most important feature in the natural history of syphilis, is the progress of the complaint from one part of the body to another; the succession of symptoms it shows in successive organs and textures; the frequent renewal of the disease in the same organs or textures, after it has apparently ceased. Some forms of the disease are attended with considerable suffering, great local suffering, and considerable constitutional disturb- ance. When we find that these symptoms are capable of showing themselves, from tune to time, in different parts; when we find the disease come on again and again in the same part, wheu we find that those affections require, as they frequently do, the employment of vigorous and active means of treatment, which exert powerful influences of the animal economy, we cannot wonder that the constitution is frequently enfeebled by the disease, and that in some cases, patients ultimately sink under it. In this point of view, the nature of syphilis is suf- ficiently serious, although not so destructive as was formerly supposed. I may observe, however, that the description I have now given, applies to only a very small proportion of cases, out of the whole number of syphilitic attacks. It is only in a very