278 GOUT AND RHEUMATISM. influence acting on the part immediately affected, or on some other part of the body, but that the same causes do not produce the affection invariably in all individuals; they only produce it in certain cases. Cold or other external agencies, may be applied to a great number of individuals, but -will only produce a rheumatic affection of the joints, in a small proportion of them. You require, therefore, for the production of rheuma- tism, the application of some external agency; and, at the same time, a particular constitution having a disposition to the complaint. In gout we see the inflammation arising without any external application at all. In fact gouty inflammation comes on frequently in the middle of the night when the pa- tient is warm in bed and quiet, and when there can be no ex- ternal cause applied to produce it. So that here we look in explaining the phenomenon simply to a certain morbid state of the constitution in those in whom it takes place. Here the effect is not the result of any local affection, it is rather a symp- tom of some inward or more general affection. So far, then, as the cause goes, you see an obvious distinc- tion between the three cases. Common inflammation is the general result of local agency upon the part; rheumatic inflam- mation requires a certain external agency, combined with a predisposition of constitution; and gouty inflammation is the result simply of a morbid state of the constitution, without any external cause. In common inflammation there is a regular progress of the affection—it goes on uninterruptedly. The symptoms are at first slight, they become more considerable, and the disease gra- dually increases to a certain extent—to its obvious and full development. It regains for a certain length of time in a state of full activity; it then gradually declines, goes off, and leaves the patient without any liability to a future attack of disease. In rheumatic inflammation, on the contrary, the affection is suddenly developed to its full extent; the joint is swelled, ex- cessively painful, and becomes at once fully inflamed. Very soon after its appearance in one joint, the affection will show itself in others, so that it is no longer confined to one spot. The disease suddenly ceases in the part in which it first ap- peared, and at the same time appears in others ; it will then cease in those parts, and perhaps re-appear in the original si- tuation ; and, after the affection has gone off, the patient will be very liable to future attacks of a similar kind, its sudden and abrupt cessation, its extension to other joints, and its affec- tion of several of them at the same time,—these are circum- stances which particularly characterise an attack of rheumatic