148 ON SUPPURATION AND quently remains in a state of fistula, and as the fistula is often very considerable, we occasionally, under such circumstances, succeed in accomplishing the cure by the introduction of a seton through the track of the fistula. The presence of the seton excites a greater degree of inflammation in the sides of the cavity. After this has been produced, the seton may be withdrawn, pressure may be applied, and the sides will very frequently adhere ; sometimes solutions, a solution of the sul- phate of zinc particularly, have been used. In using this, however, you must be cautious, because you must not think of irritating the sides of a cavity of this description, when it is considerable; you should only gently employ the solution when the sides are materially reduced in extent. Further, in following up those means, it is sometimes necessary to slit up the opening longitudinally, and let it heal from the bottom ; and that proceeding is usually adopted in the small fistulee or sinuses, which frequently take place after the artificial puncture or natural bursting of phlegmonous abscess. Mortification.—The next subject, gentlemen, on which I have to address you, is mortification. Mortification is the death of a part, that is of a part only, accompanied by a pecu- liar change of structure, the result of a previous peculiar vital action. By this latter circumstance, mortification is distin- guished from simple death, as in the case of an amputated limb; or from tempory suspension of vital action ; as when parts are frost-bitten: or from putrefaction, which frequently takes place after mortification has occurred; this, however, is by no means essential to the process; and, indeed, some kinds of mortification are to be considered as complete preservatives against putrefaction. Mortification is also distinguished, by the same circumstance, from chemical decomposition, such as is produced by the application of heat, or any powerful agency, to a portion of the body. Mortification, gangrene, and sphacelus, are terms that are used almost indiscriminately ; yet, perhaps, there are shades of difference between them. Mortification is the most general term; gangrene, perhaps, is more particularly employed to denote external superficial mortification, and the word spha- celus is- employed in the case of an entire limb, or a consider- able portion of a limb, mortifying. We use the words slough and sloughing as synonimous with those I have just men- tioned ; but these terms are English words, that is, I believe, they are derived (at least Mr. Home Tooke says so) from the Anglo-Saxon. To slough means to perish, and a slough denotes that portion of the body which has perished. Now you recol- lect that the word slough, in common language, is applied to