74 CAUSES AND EFFECTS OF INFLAMMATION. dividuals formed by their natural constitutions for robustness and long life; they are strong men, who come from the coun- try, and who, if they took only moderate care of themselves, might reach old age, with full possession of their bodily powers, but they very seldom come to any thing near it; we see a great many of them out here. Their habits of excess predispose them to inflammation; they suffer from disease of the liver, stomach, lungs, heart, &c. Thus most of them, if their lives are not cut short by some accidental injury, which generally leads to most severe inflammation, die of dropsy about the age of fifty. I remember having been called to a very fine, hearty, young fellow, one of Whitbread’s draymen, under thirty years of age; he was quite a picture of strength; he had merely grazed his leg against the iron hoop of a but. He did not think much of the accident, and went about his occupation; but soon his leg began to be painful; it became much more troublesome; and within forty-eight hours after he met with the injury I saw him. The whole of his leg was then enormously swelled; it was livid, black, blue, and the lintb mortified up to his very body, and merely from the occurrence of this slight accident. You wil.l readily understand, that the effects produced by an erroneous system of diet must be very considerable, for the cause of disease is incessantly applied. Persons eat and drink day after day, and year after year. When you inquire into a person’s habits, probably he will tell you that he is very mode- rate, only taking three or four glasses of wine a day. In the first instance, that does seem to be very moderate, but you must multiply that three or four by 365, and then you see the enor- mous quantity of alcohol that goes into bis stomach in the course of a year. This state of unnatural repletion, in the first place, seems to be attended with rather an improved state of health ; the person seems to be ruddy, cheerful, and healthy ; but after a certain length of time, a condition of the body is produced which approaches to disease: there is a preterna- tural fulness of pulse, a disposition to heat, and thirst on ex- ertion. Such an individual lives on the brink of disease; a slight impulse is sufficient to destroy the balance and push him over. With respect to the state of plethora in those cases, the accu- racy of that expression has been doubted. It has been ques- tioned whether the vessels contain more blood in such cases, and this it is difficult to determine. We do not know what the natural, regular, or normal quantity of blood is in a person. We have no means of ascertaining, in a particular case, how much blood is in the system, therefore we want data for com- parison. We cannot say whether an individual, in the state 1 have mentioned, has more blood in his vessels than he has at