10 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. across, to divide surgery and physic, on a scale thus con- structed ? Reverting to the nature and extent of the duties, which originally constituted the occupation of the surgeon, and look- ing to the etymological import of the term, which is manual operation, it tins been contended that surgery should embrace those cases only in which operations or other manual aid are required. Thus it has been represented, that the province of surgeous is to administer to external ailments; and that among their duties is included the important negative one of prescribing no internal remedy whatever. Such notions are worthy of the ignorance to which the unnatural separation of surgery and physic owes its origin, and of the dark period in which it occurred. According to such views, the distinction would depend not on the difference in the treatment of diseases, but on the accidental and often varying circumstances of the mode by which the object is to be accomplished. What are we to do with the numerous cases, such as serious inflamma- tions, affections of the head, various gouty and rheumatic dis- eases, in which change of diet and internal remedies are neces- sary, in conjunction with topical applications, or with the surgical operations of phlebotomy, cupping, leeching, seton, or issue? How shall we dispose of those, in which these differ- ent modes of proceeding become necessary, in succession ; for example, in retention of urine or hernia? In the latter, a series of manual proceedings, topical applications, and internal administrations, employed either successively or in conjunc- tion, is often followed by a surgical operation. In many instances it is a mere question of degree, whether internal remedies shall be trusted to alone, or whether surgical opera- tions shall be added. Thus a slight affection of the head may be removed by purgatives and abstinence; while a more serious degree of the same affection will require, in addition, bleeding, cupping, leeches. If it is meant to coniine surgeons to operations and manual proceedings, and thus to reduce surgery to a mere mechanical department of the healing art, I must enter my strongest pro- test against the arrangement. I should feel degraded in exer- cising this kind of barber-surgery, and should be little inclined to attempt touching it. If our profession were reduced to this, it would no longer be necessary for us to study its scientific principles. We might spare ourselves the toil and trouble of learning anatomy, physiology, pathology, and therapeutics; and we might well resign into the hands of our old associates, the barbers, the contemptible remnant to which surgery would then be reduced.