VENEREAL DISEASE. 293 has pointed out are founded in nature; and if you read his book, and consider the subject, you will recoguise the justness of many of bis remarks. I do not, however, find that the com- bination of symptoms which lie has noticed as constituting the differences, are so constant, and so invariable, as to lead me to the same conclusion he has arrived at, namely, that there are four different poisons. I find that the particular kinds of ap- pearances are more mixed together than he is willing to admit; that the peculiar symptoms are not met with so distinctly as be has described; so that, at present, I cannot go along with him in the idea of adopting these four kinds. At the same time I recommend strongly to you, the perusal of his work on the venereal disease, as being, perhaps, the best practical trea- tise on the subject, and certainly, in my opinion, as containing the best rules upon the first point, namely, the important one of treatment. Now, in investigating this matter of the unity or plurality of syphilitic poisons, we come to a difficulty at the very onset, and we find that our knowledge is extremely im- perfect. We do not know, in the first instance, whether one particular sore propagates its kind or uot. We cannot say whether a phagedenic ulcer, for example, in a woman, would communicate a phagedenic ulcer to a man; nor indeed can we venture to assert, that the existence of ulceration at all in the woman is necessary to the production of an ulcer in a man. So that this very first point in the natural history of the disease is at present particularly obscure. We want evidence on the subject; in fact, we are still likely to want it, for we cannot make any distinct experiments; we cannot inoculate this pox as we do small-pox Now I had a woman in the hospital, a married woman, who had contracted the disease from her hus- band; and the disease in her consisted of a well-marked pha- gedenic sore of the nympha, which destroyed nearly one of the nymphae. At the same time the husband was an out-patient at the hospital; he had superficial sores on the prepuce, which had not the slightest appearance of the phagedenic character, and that was the state of disease that gave it to the woman. Dr. Fergusson, inspector of the British forces in Portugal, had occasion to see an officer who was labouring under chancres of the worst kind; the parts were highly inflamed, and there was considerable swelling, consequent on sexual intercourse four days before, and he had committed no impropriety so as to ac- count for the bad state of the sores. Dr. Fergusson, with great difficulty, and very active antiphlogistic treatment, prevented mortification in that individual; however, he had contracted the disease from an opera dancer, at the Lisbon theatre, who went on infecting others and dancing all the time, apparently