TREATMENT OF SORES. 329 destructive process has continued to present irregular sores; but the general course of experience is, that the sloughing chancre or phagedenic ulceration gets into a perfectly healthy- state, and that it, as well as the margins of the wound which has been newly made, proceed most favourably after the parts have been so liberated. When the sloughing symptoms have been reduced by the antiphlogistic plan, we frequently find that though the sloughing character is removed, the sore remains in the state of phagedenic ulceration; that is, there is great pain, and the patient is restless, and sutlers very considerably. Iu that state you employ opium both locally and generally. You give opium internally, freely, a grain of opium once in eight, six, or four hours; and you apply opium to the sore in the form of lotion, and perhaps the best form of that is what I have already mentioned to you—the liquor opii sedativusof Battley, diluting an equal part of it with an equal quantity of distilled water; dipping a piece of lint in it, laying it over the sore, and then covering the whole with a bread-and-water poultice. In this way the irritable state that may remain after the adoption of the antiphlogistic means is most effectually put a stop to. In the progress towards recovery, you may perhaps find a state in which the local application of mercury might be ad- vantageous,—the black-wash or fumigation. You may also find that sarsaparilla would be useful. But it is only in some rare instances that you can use mercury, even locally, in cases which have had the sloughing character. There are some instances in which the local excitement, and the general excitement connected with sloughing chancre, have subsided before we see the case. VVe may find that the prepuce, or the glans, or both, and perhaps one-half of the penis, has sloughed before we have had an opportunity of interfering. Per- haps we may see the entire half of the penis as black as one’s coat. Here we shall find the general febrile disturbance has subsided ; that the patient has a reduced, feeble, and languid pulse, with a cold stale of the surface and extremities, and with all those general symptoms of depression which accompany the super- vention of mortification, when it occupies a very considerable part of the body. In such a case, of course, any antiphlogistic - treatment is out of the question : stimuli, tonics, cordials, may 1 be advantageous : perhaps opium, bark, wine, or even brandy, The local applications and means must be of the same cliarac- ! ter, such as the balsam of copaiba, and the various other reme- dies of which I had occasion to speak to you in describing gene- ■ rally phagedenic and sloughing ulceration. 1 have only a few words to say to you respecting the treat- ment of phagedenic ulceration. This, like sloughing chancre,