102 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION; manna, or a dose of castor oil. In that way you get rid of whatever is contained in the stomach or intestines. You then continue to administer what are called the neutral salts in small doses, so as to keep up a continual discharge from the surface of the mucous membrane of the stomach and intes- tines, and this must be considered a very powerful means of reducing inflammation. On some occasions a large—a very large quantity of watery discharge is produced from the ali- mentary canal; but this is not surprising when we come to consider the great extent of surface presented by the stomach and intestines. The quantity of fluid so evacuated is very con- siderable; yet you will find persons go on giving purgatives for a great length of time, and to a great extent, who, never- theless, are afraid of taking away a few ounces of blood from the arm. I have seen a particular purgative medicine, the elaterium, administered, in dropsy, to a person so weak, that nobody would have thought of taking five or six ouncfes of blood from the arm; I have seen this medicine given to that person every second or third day, and producing, by measure, four, five, or six quarts from the bowels on each day on which it was given. Now, when purgative medicines are given in such a way as to produce discharges of this kind, you cannot doubt that they have as great an effect in lessening the quan- tity of circulating fluid, and in diminishing the powers of the system, as a mere taking of a few ounces of blood from the arm can have. We are probably to regard the effect of purgatives, when they are administered in a judicious way and at short intervals, not simply as lessening the quantity of circulating fluid in the system, by the large secretions produced from the surface of the mucous membrane, but also as operating by another process, which I shall have occasion to advert to presently, that of counter-irritation. You produce a determination of fluids to a large part of the capillary system, and thus you probably diminish the circulation in the part which is the seal of in- flammation. Emetics, which are occasionally given in inflam- mation, probably act in the same way; they are not to be regarded as acting merely by what they expel from the body, but also with regard to the excitement they produce in the vascular system. In cases of inflammation, the diet must be particularly attended to; it should consist chiefly of fluids, and those of a diluent or slightly mucilaginous or acidulated character. Sim- ple water, toast and water, barley water, apple water, lemonade, or tea; such is the diet for a patient labouring under a serious local inflammation, with concomitant febrile disturbance of