80 SYMPATHETIC INFLAMMATION. under inward piles, which obstructed the lower bowels, and pro- duced constipation. Owing to this, says he, the Cardinal be- came cruel; and thus he accounts for the sanguinary disposition occasionally evinced by this eminent statesman. He says that the Queen Anne of Austria was accustomed to call him by the name “ cul pourri,” which we cannot translate into decent English. Voltaire adds, that “if a person should have to ask a favour of a minister, or of his secretary, or of his kept mis- tress, he should endeavour by all means to ascertain whether they go regularly to the close-stool. If possible, he should se- lect for the time of preferring a request the period immediately after the individual has had a comfortable evacuation, for it is a remarkably propitious moment; it is one of the moliia fandi tempora, which ought always to be seized—one in which a man is in good humour with himself and all around him.” Now since disorder of the digestive organs is sympathetically a cause of many local effects, and since the efforts for their cure will depend materially upon our success in discovering the cause, and in applying suitable remedies, it is necessary to in- quire a little more particularly into the mode in which such derangement takes place, and into the circumstances which denote its existence. We find, in the first place, that all kinds of serious local injuries are capable of producing, sympathetically, disturbance in the various parts of the alimentary caual. The pain and teuderness in the epigastic region, thirst, diminished appetite, costiveness, inoreased frequency of pulse, and hot skin, are circumstances very commonly attending such accidents; and they form the assemblage of symptoms which constitute the kind of fever produced in such cases, these circumstances being, for the greater part, immediately referrable to the disorder of parts I have mentioned. All kinds of local disease, as well as local injuries, are capable of acting sympathetically on these parts; and the disorder produced, whether by the one or the other, is capable of exciting such disturbance in the digestive organs as to protract such affections, and render their cure more difficult. A knowledge of the disorder which is pro- duced is a considerable step towards the cure of the injury or primary disease itself. However, the most frequent cause of disorder of the digestive organs, unquestionably, is that excess of nutrition which I have already had occasion to allude to as producing plethora, and constituting a predisposition to local inflammation. The excessive supply which is introduced into the system under such circumstances is attended, in the first instance, with a more vigorous action of the different func- tions, and an appearance is induced of high health. In a