112 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION; second night, and some aperient medicine should be given some time in the course of the day. 1 have mentioned to you, that aloetic mediciues are good in these cases, and in conjunction with mercurial medicines you may administer the compound decoction of aloes, with infusion of rhubarb. When given in the middle of the day, or a little before dinner, it gently excites the stomach, at the same time that it acts on the large in- testines. In elderly and debilitated persons, you should generally se- lect that class of purgative medicines that are called warm; and one of those I have mentioned is a very good one, namely, compound decoction of aloes; it used to be called the baume de vie. The tincture of rhubarb, combined with the tincture of senna, also forms an eligible combination of purgatives of a warm kind. It is absolutely necessary, in the treatment of these cases, that you should carefully attend to the diet. I can assure«you I consider it just as necessary to regulate the diet, as it is for you to determine the medical or surgical treatment; in fact, if you content yourselves in the treatment of disease in prescrib- ing medical or surgical means, and leave the patient to do just what he likes in point of diet, in the great majority of cases you will be beaten. He will do himself more mischief by what he puts into the stomach, than you can do him good by all your surgical or medical researches. During the existence of in- flammatory disease, all fermented liquor is improper. Animal food should be taken only in small quantities, and at stated periods, and even then it is fit only in the milder forms of in- flammation. Tea, gruel, broth, railjc, bread, and the various farinaceous articles, and vegetables, these form a kind of diet which is intermediate between the low diet of fever and the full diet, which may be safely taken by persons in health. When the local excitement is completely stopped, and when the ge- neral disturbance has ceased, when the tongue is moist and clean, when, in fact, the patient is well, then he may return to common diet, but he must not do so before. Such, then, are the means dietetic and medical of removing the remote or general causes of local disease in that numerous class in which they are found to arise spontaneously, or are said to come of themselves. When, however, the nervous sys- tem has been considerably weakened by great mental exertion, by sedentary habits, by residence in bad air, or by the other depressing influences to which it may be exposed, you must do something more than adopt the means I have just described. You must resort to some means for strengthening the system, for bracing it, and restoring its energy. 1 am afraid you will