246 HYDROPHOBIA. try. The abstraction of a large quantity of blood, for it is pro- posed to bleed to fainting, is likely enough to mitigate the symptoms for a time, but it has had no effect in protracting the fatal termination of the disease. Prevention.—We come, then, to the only point in which our medical or surgical experience can be of any use to us, that is prevention. The period that elapses between the infliction of a wound and the development of hydrophobic symptoms, af- fords us ample opportunity of attempting this. Various means have acquired popular celebrity as preventives, to which we are unable to attach any real efficacy. It has been supposed, that dipping the patient in salt water soon after the wound has been received, will prevent the disease from occurring. This is a popular opinion in the West of England. I remember very well, when I lived in the country, that it used to be said, in Gloucestershire, “ Such a one has been bitten by a dog, and has therefore gone down to the sea-side.” On the Bristol Channel, there were persons in the habit of ducking such indi- viduals, whom I believe they often almost drowned and then thought they had cured. “ Ormskirk medicine” (Ormskirk in Lancashire,) consisting of a variety of things which I do not at present recollect, has been said to have a beneficial effect; but we can easily suppose how that medicine, or any other, has acquired celebrity ; the truth is, that very few persons who are bitten by dogs, go mad; and, therefore, when those medicines are resorted to, and when patients have not hydrophobia after- wards, the cases pass with the vulgar for cases in which the medicines have acted as preventives, although I need not ob- serve to you, that individuals would not have had hydrophobia if they had resorted to no such means. In fact, I may observe to you, that hydrophobia is much less common than people suppose. During the last thirty years, 1 question whetherthere have been more than six or eight cases of hydrophobia in this hospital; and I believe I may say that, for the first fifteen years, not a single instance of it appeared here. Certaiuly cases of hydrophobia have been rather more numerous of late; but, twelve or fifteen years ago, one might be in company with medical men of considerable practice, and not meet with one amongst them who had ever seen a case of hydrophobia; so that it is by no means so common an occurrence as it has been supposed to be. Now, inasmuch as the complaint is produced by the intro- duction of a poisonous substance into a wound, common sense seems to point out one particular means of prevention, and that is ablution—washing the part very thoroughly to get rid of the poisonous matter. But this, although it seems so simple and