ITS PHENOMENA AND DIVISIONS. 55 lining of the abdomen, and pointed out that the new parts cor- responded in their texture with that of the peritoneum.] We can see the same phenomenon—that is, ttie deposition of lymph—in inflammation of the iris. We observe either that the lymph is deposited generally through the texture of the iris, altering its colour, and changing considerably the nature and appearance of its structure, or sometimes the lymph is depo sited in a distinct mass, or patch, as if a glutinous substance had been deposited on the part. We find that the matter thus poured out constitutes the bond of adhesion. It is occasionally seen between the margin of the pupil and the capsule of the crystaline lens. In inflammation of a part like the hand, when lymph is de- posited in the interior of the various textures, the phenomena are rather more obscure. We do not so clearly see what hap- pens, but yet, from what we do see, there can be no doubt that it is the same process as that which 1 have detailed, namely, that, first, lymph is effused into the parts; secondly, that it becomes organised. Hence, when we examine the part at a more remote period, there is preternatural thickening and con- densation of the structures; and the parts, which should be loose, are adherent. Thus we can explain how, in a case of violent inflammation, as of the hand, for instance, the motions of the fingers become materially limited. Sometimes so much hardness is produced by this interstitial deposition in the inflamed part, and by subsequent organisa- tion, that the part is said to take on the condition of scirrhus ; and, indeed, we find it stated in some surgical writings, and those, too, by individuals who have been regarded as high au- thority, that the production of schirrhous induration is one of the consequences of inflammation. Now this is quite an erro- neous view of the subject: the product of a common inflam- mation is merely a simple induration of the tissues in which it is seated ; and you can always distinguish, even in the worst form which parts may assume from this cause, the character of the natural structure. In cases of schirrus, the organic changes proceed until the natural structure is lost and a new one is sub- stituted in its place. The hardness that may succeed inflam- mation can only resemble schirrus in that one single character, and in no other. Common inflammation never leads to such a production as that which we properly name schirrus. I enumerated to you, in the last lecture, the different effects of the inflammatory process, which are commonly called termi- nations nf inflammation. 1 mentioned the objection to that phrase, namely, that the inflammation does not terminate with the production of these effects, except in the cases of delites-