323 PRIMARY SORES. surpised that this should often be the seat of venereal ulcera- tion. When it takes place there, it very commonly penetrates through the fraenum, and tends to destryoy it. The ulcerative process, at times, extends quite through it, forming ulcerative fissures. These altogether may be considered as ordinary com- mon syphilitic ulcerations; they are, perhaps, the most frequent form of the affection. There is a venereal sore in which the margin of the ulceration is elevated, and a little indurated •, it is a syphilitic sore within the edge, forming just at the reflec- tion of the prepuce, over the corona glandis. Frequently this kind of sore is seen on the external surface of the prepuce, or penis •, there is a roundish kind of margin ; the surface of the sore itself has something in it of a peculiar character, and the discharge from it is scanty in quantity; it bursts, and forms a thin scab. Thirdly, there is the indurated chancre, that is, a venereal ulceration taking place on an indurated basis, so that the margins of the sore, and the basis on which it is formed, present an unnatural hardness. Mr. Hunter, in his account of chancre, or primary venereal sores, says the basis is generally hardened ; and hence, in consequence of the description he has given, many surgeons have entertained the opinion, that a har- dened basis and edges are essential to the character of a true syphilitic sore. Now, if we take all the primary syphilitic sores that we meet with into view, we find that the greater por- tion of them do not possess this character of hardened basis ox edge; they are not indurated sores ; that character is only ex- hibited in a certain proportion of the primary sores. Yet, in consequence of Mr. Hunter’s having given this description, some have considered that a true syphilitic sore must have this hardened basis and edge, and that those which do not possess that character are not true venereal ulcers. They have even gone further than this, for seeing not only that a great variety of primary sores do not possess this character of induration, and seeing the progress of syphilitic disease in other points de- viate considerably from what Mr. Hunter has laid down, they have drawn the inference that the character of the disease itself has changed since Mr. Hunter’s time; that syphilis, in fact, is now a ditt'erent kind of disease, in many essential points, to what it was when Mr. Hunter wrote. Now, I cannot say that, for my own part, I can adopt this conclusion. I think it much more probable that Mr. Hunter should have been mistaken, or inaccurate, than that the nature of the disease should have changed. If we look back to the description of disease, of whatever character, as given in the most ancient times, we find all the descriptions agree very much with what we observe now, We have no reason to say that nature has changed in any es- Y 2