BITES OF VENOMOUS SERPENTS, 253 pointed out to you as necessary to be done in hydrophobia, namely, careful ablution to remove the matter from the wounded part. You may then cut away the surface of the wound; at all events, you may scarify and open it, to afford the oppor- tunity for more complete ablution; or you may cut it away altogether, so as to remove the immediate seat of the poison. Such, then, are the local means that may be adopted in cases of this kind. With respect to the general measures, the symptoms that come on are so serious, the rapidity of their progress is so great, and so fatal, that you have very little time for delay; you must select remedies, therefore, that are powerful in their influence, and that you can employ quickly. Now, general experience has shown, that medicines of a stimulating nature are best adapted for cases of this kind. In- deed, when you see the depression of the circulating system, and the powerfully depressing influence that is exerted over the nervous system, you naturally conclude that stimulants are the most appropriate. It has generally been found that volatile alkali, exbihited internally, has been followed by the best effects. Any medicine of this kind may be given with tolerable freedom. It has been also supposed, that it may be applied •with equal advantage to the wounded part, although on this point I think there may be some doubt. A preparation that was called eau de luce, has been considered to possess a very beneficial effect; it is about equivalent to a preparation of our own of the volatile alkali, with some other ingredients. In the East Indies, where venomous serpents are numerous, and where their bites are very serious, a remedy of the country, which has been called the Tanjore pill, has been found to exer- cise a very considerable effect; the chief ingredients in these pills has been discovered to be arsenic. Some English prac- titioners, adopting the hint, have, in consequence, employed arsenic very freely; and, in one of the volumes of the Transac- tions of the Medico-Chiurgical Society, there is a series of cases, related by a surgeon who had an opportunity of ob- serving several of this kind in the West Indies, where, I sup- pose, the animal that inflicted the wounds was the yellow or spotted serpent—the “ grande vipere fer-de-lance de la Mar- tinique.” In these cases he exhibited two drachms of Fowler’s solution in the effervescing draught, and repeated it every half half hour for four hours. He has related a number of cases in which he adopted this very bold treatment with good effects. I call it bold treatment, because two drachms of the solution of the liquor arsemcalis, or Fowler’s solution, contain, I believe, a grain of the white arsenic, and I think we do not, in general,