66 CAUSES AND EFFECTS OF INFLAMMATION hage, for example, frequently occurs from the surface of mucous membranes; it does not take place from that of serous membranes. We cannot determine whether the disturbance, which produces lisemorrhage in mucous membranes, is either greater or less than that which causes effusion of lymph in the serous. Although we have arranged them according to their general differences in degree, we cannot assert, in each stage of the progress, that that stage is greater than the one which immediately precedes, or less than that which follows, because the difference of organization causes varieties in the result that we cannot account for. These are the immediate effects; of the more remote results, the chief is induration, or thickening, and hardness, more or less interfering with function. To this is opposed another kind of change, viz., preternatural softening, observable parti- cularly in the brain. Induration exhibits itself under two forms. In the majority of instances, the indurated substance is of a white appearance, that is, it possesses no great number of blood-vessels. But in certain organs, where there is an abundance.of capillaries, a greater redness is produced, and a sort of liver-like colour; hence the term hepatisation, employed by the French to denote a red kind of induration. 1 should have spoken to you of the varieties iniiammation presents in the several textures. When you are informed that inflammation is augmented action of the blood-vessels—when you learn that the seat of the disturbance is in the capillaries —when you know, at the same time, that the arrangement of these vessels presents differences in each texture and organ, you will be prepared to conclude, that the inflammatory pro- cess will have its peculiar characters in each part. In each of the three classes of membranes, inflammation exhibits striking differences. In mucous membranes it is characterised by great distension of the blood-vessels, with which the surface of such membranes is plentifully supplied. Thus great increase of redness : a bright scarlet tint is one characteristic of inflamma- tion in this texture; swelling and increased thickness of the membrane is another. Increased quantity and altered quality of the fluid poured out by the membraue—that alteration caus- ing the fluid to have nearly the appearance of pus, is a further character. In inflamed serous membranes there is no swelling or thickness; there is none, or hardly any perceptible increase of redness. There is increased action of the exhalents, which pour out either a thin whey-like fluid, coagulating lymph, or pus. The coagulable lymph becoming organised, constitutes bands of adhesion or adventitious membranes covering the inflamed surface. It is this new formation that sometimes