141 TREATMENT OF ABSCESS. , I have, if you allowed the advance of the matter to the thinning: i, and destruction of the skin. This particularly applies to the !: secretion of pus about the face and neck. The matter contained in an abscess long secluded from ex- I terual influence, undergoes no change after it is secreted—no t change in composition. It may remain weeks or months, or, I 11 believe I might say years, without undergoing any of the spon- taneous alterations that would take place in it, if exposed to t tlie air. Hence, when the pus is let out, it has<but little odour; ! it has, perhaps, what may be called a faintish smell; hardly . any considerable odour. Sometimes, however, we find that i the matter which we evacuate has undergone decomposition; ithat it has, in fact, become putrid. Instead of a white, thick, : soft, homogenous liquid, we discharge a dark and stinking fluid, .or a pus, in which there are numerous streaks of blood, and .‘sometimes a mixture with coagula of blood, excessively offen- :sive. In some instances the matter presents the ordinary ap- jpearance of good well-formed pus, being at the same time very i disgusting to the smell, this fetidity being the only indication of a change. Now this is a state of matter observed particu- llarly in abscesses occurring in certain situations. It is very (commonly noticed in those 4iat form about the neighbourhood of the anus, near the termination of the large intestine ; in (those that form in the neighbourhood of the male urethra, • either in the perineum or about the scrotum ; in those that I form near the entrance of the female organs of generation, the 1 labia or nymplrje. These are the situations in which you often meet with the phenomenon in question. You might, at first view, expect the existence of some com- ■ munication between those outlets and the cavity of the abscess, and that thus the circumstance might be accounted for; but this is not the case. We find it in situations where we are (certain there is no communication between the cavities and i the parts I have mentioned, so that we cannot give an expla- nation on that ground ; and what puzzles one is, that in some i instances of this kind we do not find this particular fetidity. It is not a constant occurrence in abscesses formed even in i those situations. It has been supposed that the presence of ■ coagula of blood in the cavity of an abscess, might lead to this decomposition; and we certainly often find, that the matter does become fetid where coagulated blood is mixed with it in an abscess. Now I have sometimes seen suppuration taking | place in hemorrhoids about the anus, and there the matter that is deposited becomes mixed with coagula of blood, and in these ■ instances snch matter has been excessively offensive; but in certain cases we find the same occurtence where tile abscess