9 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. many of its component tissues are highly organised, so that its affections are very much diversified,and require a greater insight into pathology and therapeutics than those of any other single part. The eye, with its appendages, not only contains mucous, serous, and fibrous membranes, muscular, glandular, and nerv- ous parts, but also several peculiar tissues. It not only exhi- bits the various affections of these produced by common dis- ease, but it suffers from gout and rheumatism, from small- pox, measles, scarlatina, and chronic cutaneous eruptions; from scrofula and syphilis, cancer, fungus htcmatodes, and melanosis. If, therefore, an organ so complex in its structure, and lia- ble to such a number and variety of diseases, can be safely entrusted to the care of the surgeon, 1 am at a loss to know why there should be any distinction, grounded on the nature of the affections, between the surgeon and physician. It is in vain, then, to establish separate professorships of external and internal pathology ; to institute distinct colleges of physic and surgery; and to teach them as separate sciences, and to expect that they shall be practised separately. Neither lecturers nor authors can make the distinction, and thus we find the same diseases are often considered by both; they are treated on the same general principles, and regarded in the same manner. Some have proposed to assign local diseases to the surgeon, and general ones to the physician. It may be questioned whether there are any local or general diseases in the strict sense of the terms : at all events there are very few in which the cause has been applied to the part itself, and the influence of the disease, as well as of the treatment, does not go beyond it; while,on the other hand, there are hardly any in which all parts of the frame are affected. When a part of little conse- quence in the animal economy is slightly diseased, no sensible effect may be produced beyond the part itself; if, on the con- trary, an important organ is actively disordered, many other parts feel the influence ; aud hence arise general or constitu- tional diseases. Even in fever we can clearly trace the gene- ral disturbance to a local origin, in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred ; so that the very existence of fever, as a general affection, has been questioned. The difference, therefore, be- tween what we call local and general diseases is merely in degree, not in kind : it is a difference of more or less. If we were to arrange diseases in one column, beginning with the most local, and ending with the most general, we should fill up the interval with others forming an insensible transition between the two extremes. Where could we draw the line