40 NATURE AND CLASSIFICATION OF DISEASES. conceive, a very important point of the inquiry. Some causes act immediately in producing chauges in the state of our organs, and they are called direct, immediate, ot exciting causes. Thus the application of hot water to the skin produces inflammation and vesication of the skin. But other causes produce a state of the body in which disease is likely to occur, without actually causing disease itself; these are called remote or predisposing causes. Thus a full state of habit pro- duced by indulgence in eating and drinking, is a predisposing cause to apoplexy or palsy. You will read much about what is called the proximate cause. Proximate, from prnximus, means that which is the nearest; that cause which has imme- diately preceded ; the nearest cause in producing the disease. Now you will observe, that disease is sometimes traced to an altered condition of a certain organ, and when our knowledge is complete, we can do that. Therefore, the proximate cause is the circumstance that has produced the altered state of the organ. In other cases, where our knowledge is imperfect, the disease is merely an assemblage of symptoms, and in such cases the altered condition of the organ, when it is found out, is considered to be the proximate cause of those symptoms. This is the $ense in which the word is used by Dr. Cullen : his ideas turn on the symptoms that are exhibited in each case, and not on the changes that are to be observed in the organ. The proximate cause, therefore, of Cullen, and others, who use the term in the same sense, is what we should call the disease itself. Now these distinctions, perhaps, will be best understood by stating a case to you. A certain individual is of a sanguine temperament. He has a short neck, a full habit of body, pro- duced by habitual indulgence in eating and drinking; that person takes a very hearty dinner or supper, fills the stomach with food, and takes a considerable quantity of drink. Shortly afterwards, he falls back in the chair, loses sensation and voluntary motion, and has, in short, an attack of apoplexy. He either dies almost immediately, or without recovering his senses or voluntary motion, the internal movements of the body are carried on one, two, or three days, and then he dies. On an examination of the body, you will find, perhaps, a considerable effusion of blood into the substance of the brain. Now in this case, if you regard the loss of sensation and voluntary motion as the disease, apoplexy, the pressure on the brain, by the effused blood, is the proximate cause. If, how- ever, you regard these circumstances merely as symptoms, then the effusion of blood into the brain is the disease itself, and the proximate cause will be the excitement of the circu-