VENEREAL DISEASE; 338 my care for a primary syphilitic sore, and subsequently for a sore throat consequent on that, and this gentleman had married. He had married about twelve months after he had recovered from these symptoms. He came to me in about three years and a half after the period of his marriage, and he had then got syphilitic symptoms of a very well-marked kind, which had recently occurred. These were easily cured, but there could be no doubt as to their syphilitic character. It has lately hap- pened to me to see two instances of sore throat, that I could not have hesitated at all in calling syphilitic, if I had looked at the throat alone, and considered that without reference to any other circumstance in the case. One was the case of a patient in this hospital, and another that of a gentleman who consulted me in private. Those were both individuals in whom you could not account for the ulceration of the throat in any other way ; and I think in one there had been no syphilitic appear- ance for eight years, and in the other as much as ten years had elapsed. There seems, therefore, to be considerable latitude with respect to the time that may elapse between the appear- ance of primary and secondary symptoms, and there may also be considerable difference in different individuals. And really I feel myself unable to point out a limit, or to say what length of time may be considered as absolutely necessary for securing a person from the recurrence of the disease. I know that some would say, particularly with respect to the two or three last instances I have mentioned, that those could not be regarded as syphilitic, that, judging from the length of time, they must have arisen from some other cause. Now, I do not know from what ground that assumption proceeds. If six or twelve months may elapse between the primary and secondary syphilitic symptoms, or between two particular effects of the venereal disease—if six or twelve months may elapse, I do not know any reason why two or three years, or a still greater number, may not intervene. It is only a question of experience. I can only say, as to those cases I have mentioned, that I was fully satisfied of their syphilitic character, and 1 do not, therefore, feel able to define the time after which we should say an affec- tion cannot be syphilitic. The occurrence of constitutional symptoms is very commonly preceded and accompanied by a considerable degree of feverishness of the constitution. In this respect there is a good deal of analogy between constitutional syphilis and the generality of exanthematous diseases, for the constitutional symptoms more or less show themselves by erup- tions of some kind on the skin ; and in some cases the feorile disturbance of the system is very strongly marked. I have already detailed to you, generally, the symptoms