20 ON THE NATURE AND SEAT OF DISEASES. the organization, which are, to preserve life, to keep up the relations which connect tire individual with the surrounding world, and to continue the species. When the structure of the organs is perfect, and when the functions are regularly exe- cuted, the individual is said to be well, or in a state of health. The uotion of health, therefore, combines these two circum- stances—perfect structure and perfect functions, i. e. perfect in reference to the purposes just mentioned. The word natural, as applied to the healthy structure, is rather equivocal, for we must admit, that disease is a part of nature. The French and Germans use the word normal, in order to designate what we call the healthy structure. This term normal is about equivalent to the English expression regu- lar. Thus the normal, regular, or healthy structure, and the regular execution of the functions, would be opposed to the diseased or the irregular structure of the organs, or to the im- perfect or irregular execution of the functions. Disease has been defined an imperfect or irregular execution of one or more functions. This definition is very defective; it omits a circumstance of principal importance in the consideration of disease, namely, the state ofthe organs. The definition is true,so far as it goes; that is, wherever we see an imperfect or irregular execution of auy function, we may safely conclude that disease exists. But we may havedisease,and that of a very unequivocal kind, without any observable deviation from the natural state of any function. Warts and corns are considered diseases; at all events, adipose and encysted tumours are so : yet those may arise, and acquire considerable size, without the individual being actually aware of their existence; and even when they have arrived at very considerable magnitude, they do not disturb any function; they are perhaps only inconvenient by their bulk. But suppose we take the case of even so formidable a disease as that of cancer affecting the female breast. Cancer will commence with induration and swelling of the mammary glands; and this will take place so insensibly as to attain a considerable size before the female is aware that any change has occurred, and, in fact, the tumor is discovered ac- cidentally. You will see, therefore, from these various circumstances, that the definition of disease, if it turn on the state of the func- tions, is by no means satisfactory; we must at all events re- gard, as of principal importance, the state of the organs of the body. We may call disease a deviation from the normal, regular, or healthy state of any solid or fluid part of the body, or of any function. These various circumstances may be exemplified