TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION; 90 portant organ is the seat of inflammation, and, in fact, hori- zontal repose of the entire body is very favourable to the pro- cesses which are necessary for recovery from such inflammation. We find the pulse become considerably reduced when the body is placed in the horizontal position. You would endeavour to remove all the local circumstances capable of exciting the in- flamed part; all external pressure from clothes, or other sources, should be avoided. Hence a medical aitendaut should only examine the diseased organ just as far as would be necessary to ascertain its exact state; the pressure, and various efforts made in examination, are causes of excitement that should be avoided as much as possible. With the same view the patient should occupy a large and airy apartment; his apparel and his bed-clothing should be light, and no more than is calculated to keep him in a comfortable degree of temperature. When we come to consider the positive means by which in- flammation is to be reduced, our first view is directed to the taking away of blood. This is the most important measure by which inflammation can be attacked; blood is, in fact, the material by which the increased action of the part is kept up. If we may be allowed to use figurative language, the obvious increase of heat in the part is analagous to that of fire, and blood is the fuel by which the flame is kept up ; in fact, if we could completely take away its blood from the part, we should be able entirely to control or arrest the increased action. Loss of blood, then, is the most powerful means for arresting the in- creased local action, and for quieting the general disturbance which is the consequence of this. All other means are of minor importance—this is the great remedy on which we have to de- pend in diminishing and removing inflammation. Bleeding is either general or local. In general bleeding, the blood is drawn from a large vessel by a single orifice. It may be taken either from a vein or from an artery. In the former case, the process is called venesection, or phlebotomy, and in the lat- ter, arteriotomy. When blood is taken from a vein, in a state of inflammation of any particular organ, we commonly find that it presents peculiar characters; that it is different in appear- ance to the blood that is taken from an individual who does not labour under inflammation. We find that the blood coagulates slowly, consequently that the red particles sink into the cras- samentum, or clot, leaving the other part of the blood free from colouring matter; the upper part, therefore, is of a lighter ap- pearance, and the lower part, or crassamentum, is principally formed of fibrin. We find, in inflammation, that the upper part is of a yellowish appearance; that it presents what is called a buffy colour, and, very commonly, that it contracts