ON THE NATURE AND SEAT OF DISEASES. 21 in the case of the stomach. The stomach may be in a state of inflammation, or of cancer; in both cases there is a manifest change in the structure of the organ ; in the former a tempo- rary, in the latter a permanent change. In the case of heart- burn, there is an acid secretion in the stomach ; and in the yellow fever, there is a morbid secretion evinced by the eject- ing and vomiting from the stomach of a peculiar dark sub- stance, something like coffee grounds, which is called the black vomit. Here you have the fluid secreted by the stomach completely changed. Again, in nausea, sickness, and indi- gestion, you have the functions of the stomach impaired, and the organ deficient in the office which it has to perfprm. So that in the case of the stomach you see exemplified the three kinds of alteration which are mentioned as constituting dis- ease—a deviation from the natural state, so far as the solid goes, or a deviation in the state of fluid secretion, or an altera- tion in the condition of the functions. You will, perhaps, be inclined to think, that the three cir- cumstances which are included in the definition I have now mentioned, might be properly reduced to one. You will ask, whether the function of an organ can be disturbed, if the struc- ture remain entire ? You will inquire if the fluids can be alter- ed, so long as the solids remain in tbeit natural state ? These questions are very reasonable and proper. If a change of the functions implies an alteration in the state of the organs, and if a change in the state of the fluids involve an alteration in the state of the solids, then the definition of disease would merely embrace the alteration that may be produced in the organ itself. I can entertain no doubt, that if our knowledge of disease were perfect, we should be able to trace, in every instance, the alteration of function to change in the state of the organ ; but, unfortunately, our knowledge of disease is by no means perfect. In many instances we see impaired func- tion, when we cannot ascertain what the condition of the organ is, more especially in internal disease. In other cases there are altered functions, or manifest symptoms of disease, but we are unable to say what organ those symptoms should be referred to. Therefore, in our present imperfect state of knowledge, we must admit alterations in the functions, or change in the state of the fluids of the body, as diseases, with- out meaning to assert that they can take place independently of alteration in the organs themselves. We admit such a change in the function to be disease, because we do not hap- pen to be able to say precisely w hat is the condition of the organ to which the function belongs; but we do not assert that the organ continues unaltered in a state of disease.