ANTIMONY, MERCURY, DIET, ETC. 109 ! mation vigorously in its new quarters, rather than to attempt to entice it back to its old seat. The means 1 have now particularised are to be continued : .and repeated, until the inflammation is subdued. A milder , course of treatment may be pursued afterwards, until the na- i.tural state of the organs return. But it will be necessary still to pay attention to the bowels and diet. Mild opening medicines should be administered, and the diet should be light, and in small quantity. Patients place ;a considerable part of their delight in eating and drinking; and •■when they have been for some time deprived of this pleasure, they wish to get back to it, and recommence stuffing as soon ■as they can. They have a longing after the “ flesh-potsand ;,the medical man often seems to think the enjoyment of them * to be as important as does the patient himself. But it is very i important that this should not be allowed, as it frequently oc- casions tedious convalescence, and often causes relapses. Dr. IBaillie has stated, that almost all relapses in cases of inflam- mation may be attributed to a premature return to the ordinary i habits of eating and drinking. If you treat a case of acute inflammation according to the {principles I have laid down, you will find you get rid of the disturbance in the part; that the part recovers its natural state, and never passes into the condition of what is called chronic inflammation, chronic inflammation being merely a protracted inflammation—an inflammation that has lasted some time. If, however, inflammation be treated more inertly, if persons are x very much afraid of debility, afraid of letting out a little blood, and thus let the inflammation take its course and have full (play, it will very frequently happen, after the acute symptoms are gone by, that you get a case of what may be called chronic inflammation. We cannot, invariably, say, that the existence of such a case would prove that an inflammation had been treated badly, but it affords a strong presumption. In other instances, inflammation is chronic from its very ■beginning; that is, it is marked by less active symptoms than ■ those belonging to acute inflammation, and we are to consider what is the treatment appropriate to this form of disease. Now, although chronic inflammation is not marked by the same activity of symptoms, and although it does not exist in an equal degree of sympathetic disturbance in other parts, it is sti II essen- tially the same process as that of acute inflammation; it is only a difference in degree, and must, consequently, be treated on the same principles. The treatment of chronic inflammation therefore, will, except in degree, be the same as that of acute ; it is merely a modified degree of the treatment I have described;