ON GRANULATION. 173 tively on the surface of a healing- sore, you can see the blood- vessels with the naked eye ; and if we employ the microscope, we can see them in great numbers. If the part which is heal- ing be injected with minute injection after death, the sore is i rendered completely red, as if it were one mass of blood- vessels. A very slight degree of violence applied to it produces i bleeding, so that the vessels approach very near to the surface. Further, we have the evidence of blood-vessels in it by the ] presence of pus, which blood-vessels only are capable of fur- nishing. It is equally clear that these granulations possess : absorbents, as they frequently diminish in size, or are entirely i removed from the surface of the wound. By absorption, cer- ! tain medicinal substances applied to the sore will produce their effects on the urinary organs, just as they would if taken into the stomach. Thus, mercury applied in the form of ointment, or in another state, in the form of red precipitate, for example, sometimes salivates a person in consequence of being absorbed. If arsenic is applied in any thing like a strong form to a sore, it may produce stupefaction, and, in fact, death, as it would if taken into the stomach. Opium will sometimes produce its constitutional effect on being applied to the surface of a sore. The existence of nerves in granulations is rendered obvious by - the pain—frequently the very acute pain—which is produced on touching or offering any violence to them. In fact, the granulating sore is a part very sensitive, though it is a part very newly formed, springing up within a few days. You will find it has that supply of nerves which will render it very sensitive indeed, so that persons will sometimes feel very acute pain even from the slightest touch of these granulations. This function of a granulating part, then, and its organization, that is, its penetration by blood-vessels, absorbents, and nerves, take place in a much shorter time than you would expect; in fact, in so short a time, that when we look at the blood-vessels, and see these produced in twenty-four or forty.eight hours, we are at a loss to explain the mode by which this organization of the coagulable lymph takes place; indeed, we do not know whether the vessels are newly formed in the granulations, or whether it is an extension of the vessels from the surface on which the lymph is deposited; and we are equally at a loss to know how these granulations acquire their supply of nerves. These are points on which, at present, we possess no clear or distinct information. When two granulating surfaces are brought together and kept in contact, they will unite, the vessels belonging to them inosculate and grow together, and that union takes place very rapidly. I remember an instance of a patient brought into