MECHANICAL INJURIES, WOUNDS, ETC. 201 Having applied the strips of plaster in the way I have men- tioned, so as simply and gently to approximate the edges of the wound, you keep the part covered over with a linen cloth that has been dipped in cold water, and squeezed out, so as to pre- vent the occurrence of inflammation. If the union goes on fa- vourably, you may leave the strips of plaster on for three or four days; and when you take them off, you will probably find the wound, for the most part, united. You may find it united at one part, and not at another; you will then resume the appli- cation of the plaster; or you may find the edges red, and not united at all. Under these circumstances, you may apply spermaceti cerate, with a small portion of adhesive plaster, or the wound must be left to be healed by granulations, in the way I have before described. Sutures are employed either alone, or in conjunction with adhesive plaster. The form of sutures which we use, is what is technically called the interrupted suture; that is, where each stitch is distinct and separate. You make a single stitch, and then tie the silk or thread into a knot. Sutures are conve- nient in situations where the integuments are loose and folded, as about the scrotum or neck; or where moisture might detach plaster, as about the mouth. When you employ them, you must use small and sharp needles ; and you must use small silk or thread ligatures, such as are proper for tying arteries. The object of using the sutures is merely to keep the edges of the wound together, until the natural process of adhesion shall be accomplished. Now I have mentioned to you that a wound will become agglutinated by the deposition of coagulable lymph in four-and-twenty hours, and that organic union will take place in twenty-four hours; certainly in forty-eight hours; therefore you may cut out the sutures either in twelve, or, at all events, in four-and-twenty hours. You need not let them stay in longer. Tb^y have accomplished the purpose for which they were employed; and if you let them stay in longer, they become irritants. You put in as many sutures as you find ne- cessary, and you may support the intervals with adhesive plas- ter; then cover the wound with a damp cloth, as I have men- tioned, after you have fixed the adhesive strips. Now it happened to me not long ago, that I had to remove an enlarged lachrymal gland from the orbit, which projected considerably beyond the upper eye-lid. It was necessary for me to make an incision from the root of the nose up over the orbit; in the whole about six inches long, and to bring this to a T shape by another incision made at right angles with the first. This wound I united merely by sutures ; putting in as many small sutures as were necessary to bring the edges toge-