SECONDARY SYMPTOMS. 339 which make up. constitutional syphilis, and 1 need not go over that ground again; I have now to explain to you their par- ticular varieties. In the first place, then, we have various forms of cutaneous eruptions: scaly syphilitic eruption is one of the most common. The skin, before the eruption appears, exhibits a kind of mottled or marbled appearance all over the body. If you strip the patient, though the skin is seen in the natural state, yet there is a streaked or mottled appearance underneath; there are little patches of red, appearing through the cuticle, which give it that appearance. Very soon you observe small spots of a reddish-brown, or what would be called a coppery colour on the skin; and this has always been the marked character of venereal eruption. These reddish brown superficial discolorations of the skin soon become more deeply coloured. The cuticle covering them desquamates a little, be- comes scaly, and the cuticle separates. The spots increase in size; they often run together, so that you have considerable patches of the skin in various parts of the body assuming this colour; in the end, these discolorations generally are large in size, and particularly vivid. They have a bright coppery-red colour; and the cuticle over them becomes very scaly. They are very strongly marked when they occur in the palms of the hands and soles of the feet; then the contrast of the colour of tile diseased with the healthy skin is very strong; and the cuticle,being thick, cracks, and assumes a whitish appearance; so that the character of a venereal eruption of this kind is very strongly marked in these parts. It is what would have come under the description of that which Willan and Bateman call syphilitic lepra, for syphilitic psoriasis; and very frequently syphilitic eruption exhibits itself in the tubercular form. In the scaly form, which I have just mentioned to you, the dis- coloration is superficial, and the coppery-red spots do not rise above the level of the surrounding sound skin; but, in the tubercular eruption, you have a small kind of eruption, with the point more raised, and as that proceeds, the cuticle goes into the scaly state; so that that is, in fact, a scaly eruption, although there is a tubercular elevation of the cuticle in the first instance. In other cases, there is a more acute action of the skin—active inflammation, with the formation of inflamed pimples, or of papulae, as they are technically termed. These arise in clusters and patches in various parts of the body; after remaining for a certain time they vesicate and suppurate, and that suppuration dries up, and they go into a scaly state, and you have a succession of those pimples forming over various parts of the body ; this is called papular venereal eruption. There is another form in which you see it—where pustules, that z 2