HYDROPHOBIA. 241 one of the two dogs thus inoculated went mad, and that dog bit two others, one of which died rabid on the 26th of August; so that if this experiment be correct, and the high reputation of those who are said to have made it leads us to place credit on the statement, we must, I suppose, admit that the saliva of the human subject has the power of communicating the disease. This, however, is the only instance, or fact, that 1 know of, which at all tends to establish the point. We have nothing to do with the disease as it appears in the dog, yet it is proper that medical men should be acquainted with some of the points relating to its appearance in that ani- mal, because their opinion is sometimes asked, in cases of bites received from dogs, whether a particular animal may be sup- posed to have the disease or not. Now, in the first place, the dog does not labour under any horror of water,—any aversion to fluids. The dog will lap, and drink, and go into water, without displaying any of those symptoms which are produced in the human species; and,in this respect, the disease cannot be termed hydrophobia in the animal. Nor in the dog are there exhibited any of those symptoms of great rage which might justify the term rabies, which means madness, or rage. When the dog has hydrophobia, his manner becomes considerably altered ; he becomes peevish and sullen ; he scarcely will take notice of those to whom he has been ac- customed ; he will get away from home, and run wildly about. He will not go out of his way to attack individuals, or brute animals, but he is very apt to bite those that come across him. He picks up and swallows small objects ; straw, bits of grass, and dirty substances of any kind. When he is tied up, and towards the latter period of the complaint, he will gnaw and bite tire objects around him ; he will grow angry, and become very wild in his appearance, especially if he is approached ; his jaws are continually covered with tough saliva, and at last he dies. The disease is usually communicated to the human subject by a bite; in fact, the saliva of the rabid animal must be brought into contact with a recent wound, or with an ulcer ; that is, with a breach of the surface of the body. It is not absolutely necessary that this should be done through the medium of a bite. I need not observe to you that, several years ago, a case occurred which attracted the attention of the public very much,—the case of a lady of rank, a Mrs. Duff, to whom the disease was communicated in rather an uu- usual way. She had a French poodle, of which she was very fond, and which she was in the habit of allowing to lick her R