189 ULCERATION. thin, sanious, peculiarly fetid fluid, which will indicate the nature of the affection ; so that whenever you have seen one or two cases of it, you will be at no loss afterwards, from the smell, to know the nature of the case. The margin of the sore is very red and painful, and the sore extends with great rapidity, both in its circumference and depth, destroying parts so very rapidly, that one can hardly see how they can be so destroyed. They seem to be made up, if one may use the expression, into the pulpy substance that covers the sore. Now this seems to be a peculiar state of the local affection, for the constitution is hardly affected, even when a very extensive sore of this kind exists. You may have the pulse, perhaps, a little excited by the sufferings and want of rest, but you have the tongue generally very clean, the bowels not disordered—no head-ach. The first object in an affection of this kind is to destroy that morbid surface which covers the sore; and this can only be accomplished by the employment of an active escharotic; what we invariably use, in this hospital, is the pure nitric acid. You dry all the sore thoroughly, and take care that the application shall not extend beyond the surfaces of the wound. You dry the surfaces of the sore as well as you can with lint, and then, with lint rolled round a probe and dipped in the nitric acid, you completely saturate the sore until you have acted on it chemically, and destroyed its surface ; then it is reduced into a kind of escar or slough. It is a great object in conducting a case of this kind to a cure, to prevent the recurrence of the cause that produced the affection originally; that is, not to allow any moisture to collect on the surrounding surfaces. Whatever discharge collects, have it absorbed by putting dry lint upon it. Frequently you need resort to no other applica- tion than that of dry lint, so as to soak up the discharge, and prevent it from collecting upon, and irritating, or excoriating, the skin. You will find that the slough, when it separates, will leave a peculiarly clean and healthy sore, and that under the employment simply of dry lint it will heal. You will want nothing but one applicatiou of the escharotic. I have seen very many of these eases, iu which the sore has been as large perhaps as the palm of my hand; and just by one applicatiou of this kind it has been cured. The pain, from the application of the acid, is generally very considerable, and you may think it necessary to give the patient twenty or thirty drops of the tincture of opium immediately aftei the application ; the pain will not return. When you have once put a stop to this process, the patient may be said to be well. Sleep returns, no constitutional disturbance exists, and the patient recovers very speedily.