236 BURNS. considerable extent, and thus you would have a sort of bridle formed by the cicatrised integuments, confining the limb in a bent position. In the same way the jaw may be drawn down even to the sternum, when the neck has been burnt; and thus a most serious and dreadful deformity would be produced. Under all circumstances, therefore, attention to position of the part during the time the granulating process is going on, is absolutely necessary. In instances where this point has been neglected, where contraction has arisen in consequence—where a bridle of cica- trised integuments has been produced, relief has been obtained by dissecting out the portion that forms the bridle; and, when the skin on each side is round, so that it can be brought toge- ther after the cicatrix has thus been removed, the use of the part has, in many instances, been very completely restored. We are indebted for this mode of treating this condition of parts after burns, to my colleague Mr. Earle; be first directed atten- tion to it, and, in many instances, he has succeeded in remov- ing very serious and very extensive contractions, by that simple mode of proceeding. There are two modes of treating burns, which have lately been proposed, which I have not myself bad an opportunity of trying, but which have been proposed on such respectable testi- mony, that I think them worthy your notice, and 1 should myself be inclined to give a trial to them. The one is a remedy of which, perhaps, one would not easily have thought—the ap- plication to the burnt surface of raw cotton. It was first em- ployed in America, and from the following circumstance. A child had been extensively burnt, and there were no means at hand for the treatment usually adopted in such cases. In order to put the child quietly out of the way, he was laid in a basket of cotton. It was found that the pain seemed soon to be dimi- nished, and the child continued quite quiet. They took the hint, and suffered the child to remain, covering it lightly over with raw cotton. The pain went off, and although the burn was very considerable, the case did very well. This has led in America to the practice of covering over the parts with raw cotton, putting a slight covering over them. When the dis- charge commences, the covering which has been thus placed upou the parts, forms a sort of cake. If the discharge seetn to be oosing out, a fresh quantity of the cotton may be applied, and thus the parts heal entirely under this cake, and no further treatment or dressing is required. I believe that in some in- stances in which this plan has been tried, it has been found to answer very well. The other plan of treatment which I have alluded to is, that of covering the parts over, copiously, with