DISORDER OP THE DIGESTIVE ORGANS. 79 taking the whole alimentary canal, and various parts subsidi- ary to it; when you consider the high organisation of those parts, the copious supply of blood they receive, and the very important functions they execute, you will not wonder at their being the seat of very important sympathies. We find, in point of fact, that almost all parts of the body are alike capable of acting sympathetically on them, and that these organs are reci- procally capable of affecting almost all other parts. Disturbance of the digestive organs, then, is capable of affect- ing, sympathetically, almost all other parts, so as to produce inflammation, more or less violent. There can be no doubt, that to this source we must refer a considerable portion of those local diseases, which, in common language, are said to arise spontaneously—of those diseases which we cannot trace to the immediate influence of any direct cause. The digestive organs exercise the important office of preparing the supply of new materials for the repair and growth of the body, and for carry- ing on the various internal movements of the frame. They also remove from the body the residue of the alimentary matter, after the nutriment has been extracted from it. If healthy sup- plies of new matter are introduced into the frame, all the animal functions, whether bodily or mental, are carried on with vigour; the body is active, the mind alert, and a general feeling of health pervades the whole ; but if the nutritive system is dis- turbed, if the alimentary canal is loaded with undigestive ali- ment and unhealthy secretions, then the materials of disease, rather than of health, are distributed over the frame, and we cannot wonder at any part of the body suffering. Any organ of the frame may be disturbed, and any mental power may be perverted under such circumstances. It is possible that in this way even character and manners may be influenced in some degree by the way in which the functions of the digestive organs are carried on. This has been perceived by some who have not made medicine the direct or immediate object of their study. At all events, the truth is illustrated with a mixture of drollery and good sense by Voltaire, in an article in his Philo- sophical Dictionary, entitled, “ Ventres Paresseux,” which, if it were translated into English, would be, costive bellies. He says, that the character and turn of mind will be greatly influenced by the state of tire large intestines—by the way in which these organs perform their office. He states, that if a man is costive, his bile is not discharged, but falls back into his blood, and that this renders him choleric. This, to be sure, is not an example of good physiology, but you must understand that this was considered good physiology by medical men at the time that Voltaire wrote. He mentions that Cardinal Richelieu laboured