INFLAMMATION ; 124 to such a state of debility, that there seems no alternative except to administer wine, or wine and water. It is very often a subject of doubt, whether we do any good by such adminis- tration ; for, when we come to examine patients after death, when we find a state of brain such as you there see, (pointing to the brain on the table), or any serious disorganization of any other part, we cannot suppose the wine, or wine and water, can have had much tendency to remove those affec- tions. There are some instances, certainly, where the cautious administration of wine seems to produce benefit at the time, and all I can observe to you is, that you should carefully watch the administration of wine, brandy, or any stimulus of that kind. You give it just to answer a particular purpose, when you see a patient in an alarming condition of debility, and if the patient rallies a little, then you should discontinue it. It will not do to let a patient go on for four-and-twenty, or eight- and forty hours taking wine; if he were to do so you would find probably a very injurious effect. In this state of debility these stimuli produce a much greater effect than they would do in a healthy person. The wine must be given, therefore, very cautiously, and the effect must be carefully watched. I had the curiosity to ask Dr. Tweedie, how much port-wine they used in the course of the year at the Fever Hospital—and they take in a great many cases there in a state called the typhus ; they receive a great many cases in which that state exists in its worst form. He told me the consumption of wine, he believed, did not exceed two or three dozen bottles per annum. So that their experience there has not led them to place great dependance on it. Under the head of irritative fever, a state has been described which is merely, in fact, an advanced stage of this nervous or typhus fever. In a serious local disease, or a serious local injury, which has gone on very badly, where the febrile dis- turbance has been progressive, and the high excitement still goes on in the very worst form, that particular form of symp- toms has been called irritative fever; but it is merely the last stage of the fever 1 have just mentioned, and there is nothing peculiar in it. Fever dependent on, or the consequence of local disorder or disease, may have an intermittent character. There are some cases in which you have regular paroxysms of intermittent fever.