ITS PHENOMENA AND DIVISIONS. 57 nervous, digestive, secreting, and excreting systems, which > constitute, taken together, the phenomena of inflammatory fever, are only observed when inflammation is extensive, and .at the same time is very violent, or affects an important organ. You have inflammation exhibiting all the circumstances that I have mentioned in some organs of little consequence, and pro- ducing hardly any sensible effect beyond the part itself. . Sympathetic constitutional disturbance, then, is not a neces- sary character of inflammation; but when present, it is a very i important practical point for you to attend to, because it de- ■ notes either a considerable degree of inflammation, or its exist- ence in a part of consequence. It is further important, as often leading you to a choice of means by which the inflammation is \ to be treated : for example, the existence of the sympathetic constitutional disturbance would probably determine you to use i general rather than local bleeding. The question, however—what is inflammation ? is not satis- factorily auswered by enumerating these circumstances. The redness, swelling, heat, and pain, are the external signs or ■ symptoms of inflammation; they are the characters which de- :note its existence; but the question still recurs, what is the .change in the state of the vessels, that produce these four signs or symptoms ? What is the alteration in the action of the ca- pillary system that gives rise to such symptoms, because it is that which properly constitutes inflammation? I have already had occasion to mention, in considering what is called the theory of inflammation, that this is a point not clearly made out. We really cannot say, precisely, in what that disturb- ance, which constitutes inflammation, consists. We know not what is the precise way in which the capillary system of the part is deranged, so as to produce the alteration. Indeed, we are not surprised to find that this is not well understood, when almost directly opposite opinions are entertained, even at this moment, respecting the state of the circulation and condition of the vessels in the inflamed spot. Some persons suppose there is an obstruction to the circulation of the blood ; and others, with much greater reason, I think, that the blood passes more quickly through the part. If you open a vein between the seat of disease and the heart, you will get a much greater quantity of blood in the same time, than you would if no in- flammation existed. Some have believed that the minute ves- sels in inflammation are in a state of atony or weakness, while others have supposed them to be in a high condition of excite- ment. I have alluded to the idea of some, that there is spasm of the vessels ; and one circumstance that has been adduced in defence of that is, the suspension of secretion when inflamtua-