AMPUTATION. 216 and if no blood-vessel have been materially injured, if no bone have sustained considerable injury, though the wound has taken place in a part of great importance, you will find that, if you have adopted all the measures calculated to prevent inflammation, the injury, apparently very serious at first, will do well; nature will perform the restorative process speedily, and effectually. If a bone have been injured, it will often happen that pieces will continue to come away through the wound for a considerable period. A patient may go on in this way for a long time, without being in any particular danger. Amputation.—In the case of gun-shot wounds in the extre- mities, it often beeomes a question whether it will be better to attempt to save the limb, or to perform the operation of ampu- tation. In certain cases of this kind, the injury is so extensive, and so violent in degree, that you would have no hesitation in deciding that traumatic gangrene occur,or that so violent a de- gree of local inflammation, and consequent febrile disturbance, will take place, as must endanger the life of the patient. Or the case may be rather more doubtful; it may appear possible that the limb may be saved, and yet there may be so much doubt about it, that if you make the attempt, the patient may lose his life in consequence; or, after undergoing serious in- flammation, suppurations, and protracted formations of matter, he may recover at the end of several weeks, or months, or even sometimes years, with a limb so much impaired in power, that it may be doubtful whether a wooden leg would not be more useful. There can be no hesitation, then, in stating, that there are certain cases of gun-sbot wounds, in which the removal of the limb is the best course of proceeding; although, I should ob- serve to you, that this point has been often questioned. Frederic the Great, king of Prussia, had so much occasion for the assist- ance of soldiers in the course of his government, as he was almost always at war, that he could not bear the sight of indivi- duals who had lost their limbs, because they were no longer capable of serving as soldiers, and be took it into his head that his army surgeon often cut off the limbs of his soldiers when amputation was unnecessary. He accordingly determined to ascertain whether amputation could not generally be dispensed with in his army, and he therefore directed his chief army sur- geon, Bilguer, to turn his attention to the point. That surgeon published a tract, the object of which was to prove, that ampu- tation might be entirely dispensed with, or that, at any rate, it was very seldom necessary to have recourse to it. The title of that work was “ De Membrorum Amputatione rarissiine ad- ministranda aut quasi abroganda.” The arguments he had recourse to, to show that amputations were not necessary, were