SECONDARY SYMPTOMS. 3*5 pbilis, and where the employment of mercury in the form of friction on the inside of the thighs very often contributes to the dispersion of such swellings. I fancy the general belief is ra- ther on the other side, that a swelling in the glands of the groin, occurriug independently of a sore or discharge, is not to be re- garded’as proceeding from syphilitic infection ; and the point is to be considered as altogether doubtful. I enumerated to you in the last lecture, and described, the various phenomena which constitute what are called secondary symptoms of syphilis—lues venerea. Now all these do not occur in one individual, nor do they occur indiscriminately ; but we are in the habit of seeing certain of these affections com- bined ; they form certain groups, which exist either in conjunc- tion with, or in succession to, each other, in particular instances. There does not seem to be anything like an invariable coinci- dence of them in any individual; but we are in the habit of seeing that many of the appearances of both frequently do com- bine together, and that some of them do not, so that we can give a sketch of what occurs in particular instances. In a for- mer lecture I had occasion to observe to you, that Mr. Carmi- chael, of Dublin, conceived that certain secondary symptoms could be traced to certain primary sores aB their origin •, that a certain train of secondary symptoms might be referred to a par- ticular primary sore, and that there was so much regularity in the connexion of these phenomena, that he considered himself authorized to believe in the existence of several forms or dif- ferent species of venereal disease, to which he has assigned names. I may just mention to you, that the distinctions which he has adopted, and the names which he has given to them, certainly show that certain symptoms, both primary aud secon- dary, are frequently conjoined ; and, inasmuch as that is the case, I think we may very properly adopt, at all events, some of the names which Mr. Carmichael has given to those characters, without adopting, to their full extent, his notions respecting the different varieties of poison which produce them. The indurated chancre—that sore which has been described by Mr. Hunter, and which, in consequence of his description, has been generally regarded by the profession since as more particularly deserving the name of syphilitic primary sore or ebuncre ; that indurated chancre is commonly followed by the scaly eruption, by the excavated and tawny-coloured ulcer of the tonsils, by pains in the shafts of the long bones, and by nodes formed on those bones. This combination of symptoms, Mr. Carmichael calls the scaly venereal disease , and it is that com- bination of symptoms which has been more particularly de-