140 LECTURE XII. Recapitulation—Qualities of Pus—Chronic Abscesses—Mortification. I mentioned to you, gentlemen, in the last Lecture, va- rious cases in which it is necessary to open abscesses, instead of waiting for their natural discharge, and in most of which, it is also advisable to open them early, in order to limit the extent of that mischief which suppuration must otherwise produce. As 1 do not know that I enumerated on that occasion the whole of the cases that come under this head, I shall now re- capitulate what I then said, and make the catalogue complete. This mode of proceeding, then, is necessary, in the first in- stance, where matter forms deep in a limb, and where its pro- gress to the surface is opposed by strong fascia, tendons, or muscles, as in deep suppuration in the fore-arm, in the thigh, or in the leg, and more particularly in the palm of the hand and the sole of the foot. Secondly, where violent inflammation attacks a part in which there is au abundance of cellular and adipose tissue, such as about the termination of the rectum, and the neighbourhood of the anus; and this more especially where, in addition to the existence of an abundance of cellular tissue in the part inflamed, there are muscles, fasciae, or other parts over that tissue, tending to prevent the advance of the matter to the surface, as in suppuration in the neighbourhood of the male urethra, either in the perineum, or in the scrotum, in the groin, in the axilla, and deep-seated abscesses in the neck. Thirdly, whenever matter forms in parts of very dense and unyielding textures, or in those in which there is a very abundant supply of blood-vessels and nerves; the fingers ex- emplify both these circumstances. Fourthly, in the formation of matter which takes place in the immediate neighbourhood of the great serous cavities of the body, or of the large joints. Fifthly, in those which might interfere with parts that are im- mediately essential to life, such as purulent formations about the throat, in the neighbourhood of the larynx ; such as forma- tions of matter that might press on the trachea or the oesopha- gus. Sixthly, in those suppurations which are produced by the introduction into the cellular membrane of irritating fluids, as extravasated urine or faeces. And, lastly, in certain cases where it is expedient to prevent an extensive suppuration on account of the deformity that might be consequent, and where a small puncture, made at an early period with a cutting in- strument, will leave a less considerable scar than you would