99 BLEEDING, produced by the continuance of the inflammatory process—of •the subsequent weakening of part, which will be produced by uhose changes that inflammation is capable of causing in the structure of the organ. In both these ways I think, there are peal grounds for apprehension of debility ; but I have seen no reason whatever to induce me to fear the effect of debility, as ; i consequence of the use of those means necessary to reduce ■ such inflammatory action ; and I am convinced, that the real •and effective way of preventing debility in such cases, is to ..adopt the most vigorous means for stopping the inflammation •; in an early stage. It has been said, if you take blood you will .tonng on typhoid symptoms. The words typhus, and typhoid • symptoms, have been a complete bugbear in medicine. Ty- I phoid, and typhus symptoms, merely denote the state of the individual in whom certain organs are in a state of disease, .and in whom such disease has gone to a considerable extent. • Typhoid symptoms are by no means a necessary consequence I of inflammation generally, they merely denote a certain result consequent on disease existing in a certain set of organs, that is, in the nervous system. The only fear then of debility in i'.the case of inflammation existing in the body generally is, from ,! allowing the inflammation to proceed unchecked, till it pro- duce those changes of structure which will subsequently im- ! pair the function of the part. LECTURE IX. Treatment of Inflammation;—Antimony— Mercury—Diet, §c. Local bleeding, gentlemen, may be employed with advan- tage when the inflammation has been checked, and when the sympathetic effects produced by it have been removed by the general loss of blood ; or it may be sufficient alone, in cases of ia less serious description. In taking blood locally, our choice lies between two means ; cupping, and the application of leeches ; for scarifications and punctures are applicable only to a few cases, so that they are not to be spoken of as general .means of local bleeding. Cupping is the more efficacious of the two means, for we can succeed in getting a Jarger quantity of blood by this method; it is also drawn more quickly, and we can get a definite quantity. There are, however, certain parts of the body, where cupping would be improper, and where h 2