288 VENEREAL DISEASES. pox ; that was the familiar expression in this country, and is known up to the present time. The French do not seem to have liked this name, and they called it the Neapolitan disease. But at all events, it was known by one or other of these names— nobody thought of calling it the Spanish, or the Haytian dis- ease—they gave it no name that denoted its origin to have been either iu Spain or in the West Indies. I conceive, therefore, that we may reject entirely the idea of „the venereal disease being originally epidemic in the West Indies, and being imported by Columbus and his crew into Europe. If we reject the hypothesis of the West Indian origin of tiie disease, we may next inquire whether there is any clear proof that the disease broke out at Naples or Italy at the inva- sion of that country by the French, and whether it was con- veyed by the military who accompanied Charles VIII. to France and the northern parts of Europe ? I cannot say that it seems probable that the disease should have occurred at that era of the world: we cannot trace out any peculiar circum- stances in the state of those countries at the time that would throw light on the origin of this strange affection. Hence we cannot be surprised that many of those who have examined the historical evidence upon this subject, have come to the conclu- sion that syphilis existed before either of these events. The circumstance of its not being accurately described may have arisen from persons not having observed it witli great attention —not having taken cognizance of its symptoms, not sufficiently understood those which we now know to be connected with each other. At this distance of time it is difficult for us to ar- rive at satisfactory evidence upon the subject, and it is not im- portant that we should—it is only a question of curiosity. For my own part, I cannot help entertaining the opinion that the venereal disease existed long before the events that I have now alluded to; in fact, that it is just as old as the promiscuous intercourse of the sexes, which we now find to be constantly connected with it. There is no instance that we know of in which promiscuous intercourse takes place, that the venereal disease does not exist: at all events, this shews itself clearly as an important circumstance in aggravating and extending the disease. The greatest difficulty in the way of this belief is the silence of the old writers on a subject which to us appears so extremely important: we must consider, however, that both in the writings of the ancients, and of the more modern authors who wrote shortly before the end of the 15th century, we find various passpges in which ulceration is mentioned as existing on the generative organs of both sexes. We find mention