266 SCROFULA. find the attacks theu decline, and that when the changes take place that are usual about the commencement of manhood, the individuals become healthy and vigorous. At the time, how- ever, that this particular change takes place, and the succes- sion of disease in the eyes, glands, ears, joints, and skin, is stopped, it not uncommonly happens that the disease is deve- loped in other more important parts, that is, either in the lungs, the mammary glands, or the testicle. Predisposing Cause.—The great predisposing cause of scro- fula, is original peculiarity of constitution. We can have no hesitation in stating this fact generally; but we should find it rather more difficult to point out precisely in what that pecu- liarity of constitution consists. I have already had occasion to observe to you, that each indi- vidual has something peculiar to himself in his bodily organi- sation; that there are infinite varieties of natural organisations in the human species; and in individuals who are distin- guished by some of them, there is a greater or less degree of susceptibility to particular forms of disease. The external marks of scrofula are generally considered to be a thin state of the integuments, so that the cutaneous veins are easily seen ramifying under them. In some individuals the skin is so thin, that the course of the superficial veins, and the colour of the blood they contain, are almost as distinct to the eye as if the subject were dissected. A thickness of the upper lip, and a tumid state of the septum of the nose ; a loose- ness and fiaecidity of the muscular system; these are circum- stances observed in individuals disposed to scrofula; but we cannot say from which particular state of the frame, the liabi- bility to the several species of scrofula can be derived. We observe two kinds of constitutional marks in scrofulous sub- jects. One class of individuals presents a pale and pallid coun- tenance, generally rather a tumid abdomen, a flaccid loose state of the muscles of the body, and the want of activity in the cir- culation, so that the extremities are cold ; and the individual suffers much from this condition; there is a languor, in fact, both of body and mind. In the other class there is rather an excess, an unnatural quantity of colour in the face, and in the cheek particularly. There is rather an excited circulation, and that is easily still more excited. There is a rapidity in the operation of both mental and corporeal powers ; and the intel- lectual powers of children so affected, often appear to be pre- maturely developed; external influences, in fact, act more pow- erfully on these than on other individuals. Now, both these classes of persons are called scrofulous ; and they exhibit the particular characters, more or less, to which the word scrofula