126 ON SUPPURATION, AND completely formed, an abscess fully developed, in the course of a very short time, that is, in the course of two or three days for instance; or you may have the collection increasing and re- maining in the part, without coming to ahead for several weeks or months, or even, perhaps, years. We might, therefore, de- signate suppuration as we do inflammation, by the terms acute and chronic, and, in fact, we speak constantly of chronic abscess, though we do not exactly use the term acute abscess ; we more generally talk of phlegmonous abscess, to denote those collections of fluid which are produced by the most violent and rapid forms of inflammation. I shall first, then, speak to you of the progress of inflamma- tion as it occurs in phlegmonous abscess. When the inflamma- tion has proceeded to a considerable degree, matter is deposited in the centre of the inflamed part. The inflamed textures, as I have already mentioned to you, become in some measure softened, or, at least, their power of cohesion is lessened by the progress of inflammation. This change goes on to its utmost extent in the centre of the inflamed part, where pus is secreted; and, in fact, portions of the textures actually lose their cohe- sion. They may be said to be broken down ; and when this effect is produced in the textures of the part, there is effusion into them from the inflamed vessels, at this period, of a thin serous appearance, something like a bloody effusion. When I say that there is a portion of the textures of the inflamed part broken down, and that then there is effusion from the inflamed vessels, I do not allude to any mechauical process, but to a change of condition, the result of violent action. We now be- gin to perceive white spots of matter disseminated here and there, in the part which is the seat of the greatest action, and these soon unite, so as to form one cavity. The cavity which is thus formed, enlarges; it increases in size, pushing aside the cellular substance and the surrounding soft parts, which yield more or less, according to their nature. Now such of these parts as are firm and resisting, do not give way at first to the process I have mentioned. Blood-vessels, nerves, tendons— these form elevations or ridges on the sides of the abscess, and sometimes they constitute a sort of frrnnum or bridle to the abscess, crossing from one side to the other. The surface of the cavity, when we examine it, is found soft and pulpy, and it presents a greyish appearance. If we take the handle of a knife, we can scrape off a pulpy, greyish sub- stance, which is generally supposed to consist of the coagulable lymph effused by the inflammatory action. It appears, indeed, not organised, although it closely adheres to the surface of the part. When we thus scrape off this grey pulpy covering, we