ON MORTIFICATION. 165 years of age, who had been in the habit of living well; by no means working hard, but indolent, and a free liver ; he was corpulent, and had got a good red pimply face. He was quite surprised that any thing should be wrong with his toe. He had lived well, he could still eat and drink well, and he thought his health should be good. This affection came on very slowly, and gave him but little pain. When I saw him, and explained the necessity of keeping in the horizontal position, and perhaps in bed, it was with great difficulty he could be prevailed on to refrain from walking about. However, he was persuaded to do what was necessary, and the mortified part separated, leaving a completely clean, granulating surface, that appeared to be healing; when, one day, all of a sudden, apparently without any cause, mortification of the whole of the rest of the toe oc- curred. A groove took place, and all the soft dead parts were separated, and I cut through the bone with a pair of pincers. The surface appeared clean, and there was no reason to sup- pose that it was unhealthy. However, soon afterwards a livid redness formed a little further up, deep-seated suppuration took place, with ulceration, and the discharge of a foetid pu3 in the foot, and thus he was carried off. In the course of the sum- mer of 1828, I saw a gentleman about the same age, and of a similar habit of body, in whom mortification of this description took place on the side of the heel—in size about a quarter of an inch one way, and three-quarters of an inch another. In this gentleman, the process of separation took place in about a couple of months ; he got well, and remains so to the present time. Now that is an instance to show that these mortifica- tions are not invariably fatal; but, inasmuch as they are gene- rally preceded by that very unhealthy state of the constitution, inasmuch as they generally occur in persons whose health is impaired by sedentary and indolent habits, and free living, you will usually find they terminate fatally ; although, for a time, the natural process of separation may take place, and the case may seem to be on the point of doing well. I just mentioned to you, cursorily, that mortification takes place from the application of animal matter to the surface of the body, as under the form of malignant pustules. Under this term, a certain condition of the skin has been described by con- tinental writers, and I fancy it is more common with them than it is with us. They speak of it as occurring in butchers, and persons having to do with bides ; aud they say it takes place more frequently where butchers slaughter some kinds of ani- mals, that die under certain states of disease. I have only seen one instance of it, and I just mention it, that you may know what the thing is. The person in whom it occurred bad.