SECONDARY SYMPTOMS. 351 would not go to the extent of saying, that you are never to use it at all, even to the extent of affecting the system. Mr. Carmichael also speaks of a fourth form, the pustular, but he does not speak of this form of it very confidently, nor as if he had fully established, in his own mind, the existence of it; aud therefore I need not trouble you with any observations on what he says respecting it. Now, with respect to the three distinctions, the scaly, the papular, and the phagedenic forms, I think that those cases of them which may occur to you in practice, will very nearly bear out the appearances which Mr. Carmichael has described, and you will recognise this in them, that his descriptions must have been founded on the results of actual observation. Yet I do not feel myself prepared to go to the length he has done, in saying there are so many distinct poisons producing the effects, because there is not that consistency observed in the combina- tion of the symptoms I have mentioned to you which is seen in the other affections of the body, measles, small-pox, &c. in the first place, we do not feel that clear kiud of distinction between the various primary symptoms which Mr. Carmichael assumes. We sometimes see sores of different characters existing in one and the same individual. Sometimes we have a superficial veuereal ulcer, and an indurated sore, occurring in the same person. You may often have a sore, of which one part is indurated and the other is not. The truth is, that that particular form of induration varies in some respects according to the texture which is affected, for we do not find that indura- tion when the sore is seated in this glaus penis. We do also find that there are combinations of the eruptions. You will see tubercular and scaly eruptions occurring in the same indi- vidual; you may see a scaly eruption with phagedenie ulcera- tion in the same person. The distinctions, therefore, that have been laid down by Mr. Carmichael, are only to be taken in a general sense, and not to be taken as strictly and accurately true under all circumstances. But the particular rules of treatment which he has laid down, appear to me to be very judicious; and I think you cannot, on the whole, have a safer guide in point of practice than the book which he has writ:en. Now, having mentioned to you, with approbation, this work of Mr. Carmichael, I would also recommend to you another work, of still more recent date, as being well worthy of your atten- tion ; it contains a very excellent relation of facts on the sub- ject, judiciously arranged, aud the various doctrines are dis- cussed iu it with the advantage of considerable personal expe- rience, in a very rational way—I mean, the Treatise on Syphilis by Mr. Bacot.