SECONDARY SYMPTOMS. 337 tion will take place very rapidly. In such instances, if cica- trization does not advance as fast as you would expect, it will be well to employ mild stimulants; the red precipitate, for example, or the solution of the nitrate of silver. In addition to that, you should use pressure, by placing compresses on the ulcerated part, and firmly binding them on. We sometimes meet with swellings of the glands of the groin 6f an indolent kind, which do uot proceed to suppuration, and do not disperse. The glands remain swelled and painful, the patient is prevented from taking his ordinary exertions, and continues much in the same state for a considerable time. Under such circumstances, the application of blisters to the surface of the skin is very often advantageous. Sometimes such an application will decrease the inflammation in the glands, and bring it on to suppura- tion ; sometimes it produces dispersion of the glandular swelling. Secondary Symptoms—I have in the next place to speak to you, gentlemen, of the secondary symptoms of syphilis. In general an interval elapses between the appearance of the pri- mary and secondary symptoms; and usually this interval is from six to twelve weeks. Occasionally, however, the second- ary symptoms come on at an earlier period ; even show them- selves before the primary symptoms have disappeared. It is not very uncommon to see a person having, at one and the same time, primary syphilitic sores, buboes, eruptions of the skin, sore throat, iritis, and affections of the periosteum and bones. You may see a patient with all these at the same time ; the secondary, if we may use the expression, overtake the pri- mary symptoms—they come on before their time. There are other instances in which the appearance of the secondary symptoms is more protracted, in which they do not show them- selves until considerably after the time at which we should usually have expected them. And there arc some instances in which a very long period elapses between particular symptoms of the venereal disease, and others that come on next in order. Now it happened to me, not long ago, to have a patient who had a venereal eruption all over his body. The character of it was so strongly marked that I had no hesitation whatever in asking him immediately how long it was since he had primary syphi- litic disease. Well, the truth was, it was so long that he had forgotten it, and he was surprised at my inquiry. It turned out to have been fourteen months; the primary syphilitic affection had got well fourteen months before. I saw another instance in which nearly two years had elapsed between the primary sore and the syphilitic eruption which was the consequence of it. I had occasion to see a gentleman who had been under z