227 TETANUS. of his recovery. Dr. Parry states, that if the pulse do not rise above 100, or 110, by the fourth day, there is a tolerably fair chance of cure. Treatment.—In the treatment of tetanus, the first inquiry that presents itself is, inasmuch as the tetanic symptoms are the consequence of a local cause, that is, of a wound in some part or other, whether the removal of the cause will put a stop to the symptoms ? in other words, whether the amputation of any part, for instance, of the finger or thumb, or of an entire limb, when the wound which has produced tetanus is in a limb, will arrest tetanus—put a stop to the complaint. I be- lieve we may say, pretty positively, that it will have no such effect. You have seen already that tetanus may occur when a wound is in a healing state, and when it is making rapid pro- gress to a cure. You cannot suppose, therefore, that the re- moval of a healing wound would have the effect of putting a stop to tetanus. No doubt the tetanus owes its origin to some condition of the wound that occurred prior to this healing state; but there is no reason, therefore, to suppose, that al- though the state of the wound, at the time of the development of the disease, was the cause of tetanus, that the removal of the wounded limb would remove the tetanus also. If the cause of tetanus depended principally on the health of the individual prior to the development of the symptoms—if it arose from some peculiar state of the constitution, you could not suppose the removal of a wound would have the effect of stopping it. Yet the removal of the limb, the amputation of the extremity in which the wound is seated, has been recommended and prac- tised, even of late times, by those who have had considerable experience, and more particularly by Larrey, who recommends it in the Surgical History of his Military Campaigns. He, however, advises it only in cases of chronic tetanus, or at the very commencement of those symptoms which are of a more acute kind. He does not give very many cases, however, and I do not find any direct evidence in favour of the proposition. But the trial has been made in many cases, and, certainly, the results, as far as I am acquainted with them, go completely to show that the practice is a bad one, that there is not sufficient chance of arresting the progress of disease, to induce you to perform amputation with that view. In the treatment of tetanus, you will find that very different modes have been adopted, and these have been so various, and so different from each other, as to show that no clear principle of treatment has as yet been discovered. The rigidity of the muscles has led to the employment of antispasmodic remedies, more particularly of opium, and, 1 believe, of opium in large u 2