220 AMPUTATION. the very serious and complicated mischiefs that take place from some of the worst gun-shot wounds without it. Now, with respect to the place of amputation, it may be observed, that, in general, you save as much of the limb as you can. But you must bear in mind the circumstance I have mentioned to you, the splintering of bone in bad gun-shot wounds, and the extent to which that may affect the bone beyond the part at which the wound has actually been received. In the treatment of gun-shot wounds of the chest, or abdo- men, the principles observed must be very much the same as those which will guide you in the management of wounds of any other kind, occurring in those situations, and, in fact, the practical rules are simply those that are necessary to avert inflammation. You will find it expedient, in injuries of this kind, to employ the most active antiphlogistic means; and under their vigorous employment, recovery will often take place in wounds that appear to be of the most dangerous and desperate kinds. You will find patients recover from wounds where, if you considered merely the track of the ball, it would be supposed that parts of the most serious consequence had been injured. I remember being sent for to a young man who had attempted to destroy himself by discharging a pistol in, what he conceived to be, the situation of his heart. He had pointed the weapon to the left side of his chest, and there dis- charged it. I was summoned to him very suddenly, but the person who came to me said it would be of no use my-going, as the gentleman was undoubtedly dying, and would, very pro- bably, be dead by the time I arrived ; still, as he had been de- sired to find a surgeon, he begged that I would go and see him, dead or alive. When I arrived I found the young man nearly in the situ- ation the individual who came for me had described. He was in a state of the greatest depression; the pulse was scarcely perceptible ; the skin was pallid and cold, and the patient was hardly able to utter a word. I found him, in fact, looking very like a dying man. There was an opening towards the anterior part of the chest, nearly in the middle, though a little towards the left side, not far from the sternum ; so that it seemed pro- bable the ball had gone very close to the heart; at all events, if it had not gone through the heart, it appeared that it must have gone through, or pretty near, the stomach, or some part of equal consequence. Upon examining him very carefully, I found the ball just under the skin, close to the spinous pro- cesses of the dorsal vertebrae behind, and nearly opposite, the