286 VENEREAL DISEASES. most general sense, we divide venereal disease into syphilis and gonorrhoea. The various appearances which are included in the term syphilis, fall under two general divisions, the primary and secondary symptoms of the disease. The primary symptoms consist of those which are immediately produced by the appli- cation of the poison to the human body; that is, ulcerations, and swellings of the glands consequent on those ulcerations ; primary ulcers; and buboes, the technical term given to those glandular swellings in the groin, which arise from ulcerations taking place in the generative organs of either sex. The ulcerations are very commonly called chancres; so that when we speak of primary symptoms, we say they consist of chancres and buboes. The secondary symptoms consist of various affections of the skin, of the throat, of the tonsils, of the mouth, of the eyes, of the nose, of the ears, of the testicles, of the bones, and of the joints. These latter are the affections by which the constitutional form of the disease is distinguished. The occurrence of constitutional symptoms is not necessary to the existence of syphilis, for it may consist chiefly in the appearance of the primary symptoms just mentioned; that is, of ulcerations of the generative organs, with or without buboes. All such primary are not invariably followed by secondary symptoms. Out of a given number of cases of primary symp- toms, under any kind of treatment, you will find secondary symptoms only in a certain proportion of them. This propor- tion is diffently stated by different observers. Some have remarked, that the secondary symptoms will take place in one out of three cases ; others say they are not to be expected in more than one out of twenty cases: at all events we have syphilis, recognised as such, without the occurrence of any secondary symptoms. Now the word syphilis, as I have explained it to you, does not denote any single affection of any single texture. Like scrofula, it is a general term, under which are included affec- tions of a variety of textures and organs of the body. It is generally considered, that syphilis was not known to the ancients; at all events, there is no clear description of the disease given, prior to the end of the fifteenth century. There are scattered notices of ulcerations occutring on the generative organs, both in the older medical writers, and in various other authors who flourished before the time I have mentioned ; but we do not find in any of them a description of the disease at all according with the view now taken of it by ourselves, and, in particular, there is not an account of what we call secondary or constitutional symptoms in any one instance prior to the very