217 AMPUTATION. very well answered by Mr. Pott, in his treatise on the subject. Indeed, we can have no hesitation in stating, that there are cases in which amputation is necessary. The question then arises—What are the kind of gun-shot wounds that require removal of the limb, and what is the time at which the operation may be most advantageously perform- ed ? The cases for amputation are those in which an important joint is traversed by a bullet. A gun-shot wound of this kind in the knee, is always a case for amputation; and army sur- geons consider that, in most instances, a similar injury of the elbow, or of the ancle, is also a fit case for amputation ; at all events, it is so of the ancle. With respect to the elbow, the power of restoration is more considerable there, and a stiff joint of the elbow is not of so much consequence as of the ancle. However, most cases of accidents of this kind to the elbow or the ancle joint, are considered by those who have had much experience in this branch of surgery, to be proper cases for amputation. A very extensive laceration of the soft parts of a limb, with a splinter and extensive fracture, or a compound fracture of the thigh by a gun-shot, are, in all instances, fit cases for amputation. In injuries of this kind, of the leg or arm, where the soft parts are extensively lacerated, and the bone is considerably splintered, it will often happen, that the injury to the bone will extend considerably above the part which has been struck by the projectile. Thus, if the tibia be struck in the middle, it may become splintered up to the knee joint. When a large mass of the soft parts of a limb is shot away, more particularly if it include the main artery, and when a limb is carried away entirely by a cannon ball, it may seem that the accident has of itself performed the ampu- tation ; the amputation, however, is not done neatly enough, and it is necessary to cut off the limb higher up. Such are the serious cases of gun-shot wounds of the extremities, in which the removal of the limb becomes necessary. Then with respect to the time of performing the operation. You have the choice between immediate or early amputation, that is, the removal of the limb within ten hours, or, we may say, at the farthest, twenty-four hours from the occurrence of the accident, at a period when inflammation has not arisen in the part, and when febrile disturbance of the system has not taken place—you have the choice between this or waiting until the local inflammation and general febrile disturbance which ensue, shall have subsided ; that is, until a very remote period of time from the occurrence of the accident. The choice is between immediate or early, and delayed amputution ; be- tween primary and secondary amputation. The question,