273 SCROFULA. enjoyed by them, suffering very little from cold, and receiving a regular supply of healthy nutriment. Thus the two great causes, exposure to cold, and unwholesome nutriment, are pre- cluded in the case of children during the period of suckling. I have said that exercise should be regularly taken. If you leave children to themselves, they will naturally engage in a variety of active pursuits by which their muscular system is sufficiently exercised; and I think, if any thing like a tendency to scrofulous disease is shown, parents ought to consider the object of education as quite secondary to that of establishing the health■, and nothing like attention to books should be al- lowed to interfere with attention to the rules which are calcu- lated to restore and secure health. These, then, are the general points of management in the cure of strumous individuals. You observe that all these may be called general rules. In fact, in the great majority of cases of scrofulous disease, the means that are destined to obviate the cause of the disease should be of a general nature. However, of course we fre- quently have occasion to employ local measures in conjunction with general, although they may, perhaps, very often be re- garded as secondary in point of importance. In the case of simple chronic swelling, without any very active inflammation, it may be sufficient to employ the general means I have men- tioned. At all times the part may be kept warm ; it may be covered with a soap plaster. When a more active degree of inflammation exists, if there be some heat and pain, you may employ mild antiphlogistic means, according to the degree of inflammation. You might apply a few leeches; you might apply an evaporating wash, or you might apply a poultice made either of bread and water or of linseed. When suppuration takes place it is necessary to open the abscess pretty quickly. You should make a rule of this, be- cause there is a want of inclination in the suppurative matter to come to the surface. It will extend in circumference, and the deformity which frequently results from scrofulous abscess will be increased. If you leave it to itself the skin often be- comes excessively thin ; and when the swelling forms matter, considerable part of the skin must ulcerate, for it is so far de- prived of life that it cannot remain attached to the parts be- longing to it. You will obviate all this, then, by opening the part pretty early. The languid and unhealthy kind of ulcer which frequently takes placeintheskin,or follows tins abscess,very often requires local stimuli or astringents. This is not by any means a general rule, because, under many circumstances, scrofulous ulcerations do very well under the employment of simple local means, such as bread.and-water poultice, spermaceti ointment, T