ON MORTIFICATION. 161 pu tat ion. But in certain cases of mortification arising from external causes, this rule may be relaxed. Having addressed to you these general observations upon mortification, I have a few words to say respecting some par- ticular forms, or kinds of mortification ; and first, of the mor- tification that is produced by the application of cold. Cold, whether applied to the body generally, or whether to any par- ticular part, has, in a very decided way, the effect of diminish- ing vital action; and thus, in countries that are very cold, where persons frequently have certain parts of the body exposed to a temperature much below the freezing point, and that for a considerable time, it is by no means uncommon to have such parts chilled, and, in fact, actually frozen. As this is a com- mon occurrence in those countries, experience has taught the individuals what is the proper mode of proceeding when a part of the body is thus frost-bitten or chilled, in order to ward off mortification. It has been found that, if a part of the body thus chilled be suddenly brought to a fire, and its temperature suddenly raised, it will inevitably mortify, and that the only mode to prevent this is to raise the temperature of the chilled part very slowly, by the application of snow, or ice-water; by rubbing it with these the freezing is removed; and then, though all the vital movements had ceased for a time, although the circulation had been completely put a stop to, those move- ments are again restored, and the part recovers without injury : that is the treatment in frost-bites. In respect to the lesser mortifications, that arise from local injuries, there is little to be said; the occurrence i3 unimpor- tant, and no particular rule can be laid down. The mortification which arises, however, from serious local injury, and which affects an entire limb, is a case of very great importance. This comes on inconsequence of extensive bruises, or lacerations; in consequence of very severe gun-shot wounds; in consequence of bad fractures, and those, perhaps, compli- cated with dislocation in the extremities of the body, fractures in which there are extensive lacerations and bruisings of the soft parts, and perhaps injury to some of the principal vessels and nerves of the limb. Under such circumstances mortifi- cation will come on suddenly in an entire limb. The limb swells, loses its natural colour, becomes livid, black, and blue; loses its temperature; a thin and offensive sanies is found dis- seminated through its textures; the cuticle separates; vesica- tions occur, followed by a sanious discharge; and those changes, within a very short time, will extend to the whole of a limb, and quickly reach the trunk of the body. This consti- tutes the case which is called traumatic gangrene, that is, gan- . M