2 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE, wishing to make surgeons physicians. If by this it is meant to charge him with the wish that surgeons should add to their surgical knowledge that of medicine, the accusation is just, and does him the greatest honour. By thus exciting surgeons to cultivate medical science generally, by thus reuniting two artificially separated parts of one great subject, which require each other’s aid, he has at the same time signally benefited the public, and increased the respectability of his own profession. The departments of Anatomy and Surgery, which were held conjointly by Mr. Abernethy, are now undertaken separately by Mr. Stanley and myself. It will be our business to keep stea- dily in view the example of our great predecessor. However far behind him in the capability of acquiring and imparting know- ledge, we will not yield even to him in an earnest desire to render ourselves useful to our pupils, in a firm determination to discharge the duty we have undertaken to the best of our ability. This alteration, however, will make some difference neces- sary in the arrangement of the subjects of the lectures. While Mr. Abernethy undertook both these departments, he could distribute the subjects as he pleased through the two courses; and he found it convenient, or thought it expedient, to give a considerable portion of surgery in his anatomical lectures. When I say a considerable part, I might say one half or two- thirds, including the peiformance of operations, and the states in which such operations are necessary,—the diseases of the bones,—the accidents to which they are liable,—the injuries and diseases of the joints,—and many other subjects. We shall allot to each department the diseases which properly belong to it; and as 1 puipose to go through the whole of surgery, it will Dot be practicable for me to give you two courses of lectures. We shall find that the subjects are so extensive nud so nu- merous, that they will till one course, lasting through the whole of the winter. I purpose to lecture on Suigery three times a week; and I conclude that this arrangement will allow sufficient time for including every thing that belongs to the course. Surgery, gentlemen, is one division of the scieuce or art which has disease for its object. This science, considered ge- nerally, embraces the physical history of nuA. It investigates the construction of the human body, and its living actions ; it inquires into the purposes executed by each part, aud into the general results of their combined exertions. It observes the human organisation under all the various modifications im- pressed on it by surrounding influences of all kinds; and it draws from these sources the rules for preserving health and