PRIMARY SORES. 321 him if be had ever had piles before; he said no. I thought it was very strange that he should have experienced a severe attack of piles just at that moment, as he had never suffered from them before ; but be said he was sure such was the fact, because Ire had shown them to a surgeon in the town where he lived, who had said they were piles, and applied caustic to them. I requested him to let me look at them, and I found that he bad got a set of venereal ulcers about the fissure of the anus; in fact, that the whole external integuments around the anus were a set of chapped and ulcerated sores, extremely in- flamed and painful; in short, a set of secondary venereal ul- cerations proceeding front this primary sore on the hand. As soon as he arrived in town, I made him confine bimseif to. the house, put him on a very active mercurial course, got his mouth affected very rapidly, and, as soon as that was the case, the ulcers both of the thumb and the anus healed; he got well, and went back into the country in about three weeks. I have heard nothing of him since, and I suppose he has continued well. I saw another medical gentleman, who had been in the habit of attending a great many low women in the country, and he had a sore on the hand, which no doubt was syphilitic ; he had both a swelling and sore—swelling ofthe axillary glands, and a scaly eruption spread over the whole body; these were suddenly stopped when mercury was employed. I say, there- fore, that these diseases may be acquired by other means than sexual intercourse; and it is a matter of great consequence to a surgeon who has to examine patients labouring under syphi- litic diseases, or who has to handle the genital organs of fe- males who may be so affected, to take great care that he does not allow any of the discharge to come upon a recent wound. I may mention, that Delpech, in his Observations on the Treat- ment of Venereal Diseases, mentions the case of a surgeon who contracted a sore on his fore-finger in this way, from handling the ulcerated fissures of the anus of a patient. Some of the moisture produced from those ulcerated fissures came in con- tact with his finger, which had been previously hurt; itching and pain immediately ensued; ulceration of the wound and swelling of its circumference took place on the next day ; swelling of the glands, eruptions over the whole body, disease of the bones of the nose, and other parts, were the consequence; and Delpech says, that the patient did not recover until after six years of suffering and treatment. The application of the venereal poison docs not produce its effect immediately ; some interval of time takes place, as in small-pox, cow-pox, and hydrophobia. Syphilitic sores seldom appear in less than five or six days, or a week after coition. 1 Y