94 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION; natural state from one of violent inflammation. You see in both these instances, that abstraction of blood is not only capable of checking the inflammation, but, for the moment, of entirely removing it. It is true, that in both cases the inflam- mation will return, but it never returns with the same violence. General bleeding, then, is necessary in the case of inflammation of any organ important to life, such as the brain, the lungs, the liver, and other parts 1 have enumerated. This bleeding is also necessary in case of inflammation of any organ, when you suspect the probable occurrence of those changes of structure, which would subsequently impair the function of that part. Thus free abstraction of blood is necessary in inflammation of the eye, of the ear, inflammation affecting the hand generally, or any important joint of the body. General bleeding, again, is necessary in the case of any serious injury to any important part of the body, or in the case of a serious injury of consider- able extent, even if it should not affect a part, in itself of con- sequence, because we know by experience, that injuries of that sort will produce inflammation. VVe know that inflammation, arising under such circumstances, will be attended with consti- tutional disturbance, and, therefore, the common sense of man- kind, independently of medical rules, has led them to know, that a person receiving an injury of that kind ought to be bled, and that, independently of the occurrence of inflammation. Now some persons have held it as a rule, that under such circumstances you ought not to bleed, till inflammation comes on; that you should wait till the disturbance comes on, and then take the means of removing or lessening that disturbance. I cannot, for my own part, at all accede to that opinion. We do know that, according to the laws of sporting, when a fox is turned out, or a stag set off before the hounds, they consider it necessary to give a certain time for the animal to make its way, and I believe they call that law,—giving the animal law. But I do not think we are bound by these rules in regard to inflam- mation. We are not bound by any rule of honour to allow an inflammation to arrive at a certain extent, before we attack it. », I think we may take immediate means to prevent it, wherever we suspect its occurrence. Therefore, when a serious injury t happens to one individual, more particularly if that individual be of a robust habit, and at an nge when inflammation is likely i.. to occur, we ought to adopt means to prevent that inflamma- tion which we know, by experience, will take place, unless we do use such means of prevention. It would be a desirable k thing for us to lay down a rule, if we had any means of doing so a certain rule, by which we could determine in all cases where general loss of blood should be had recourse to, and