v ‘ PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF FEVER. 117 equence of some local irritation, disorder, or inflammation, u'ou will understand, in considering this point, that when iever is said to depend on some local inflammation, the word Js» used in a general sense, to denote not only the state of a aart in which there is swelling, redness, and heat, but the mi- • nor degrees of disturbance which are marked merely by simple ttrfflux of blood, or by derangement of functions. ; Now wiien an organ in any part of the body is irritated, dis- ordered, or inflamed, sympathetic effects are speedily produced an various other parts; and these, taken together, constitute a •tate of fever. If you have an inflammation of the brain, or of Us membranes, that local disturbance is attended with fever, f you have an inflammation of the pleura, or of the lungs, rou have also fever attending it; and the same observation *vill hold good with respect to the peritoneum, the liver, the .tomach, the intestines, and the kidneys. If you have an ac- ive inflammation of any of the larger organs of the body, there ■ s fever; or even of a considerable portion of the skin, as in erysipelas. In all these cases, the nature'of the affection is very clear. There is an obvious local cause ; and the depend- ence of the general or febrile symptoms on that local cause is .quite unequivocal. There are other instances in which the local disease is not rmarked by circumstances so obvious, in which the general sympathetic disturbance is the more prominent circumstance. It attracts the attention more than the local disorder that has caused it, and thus the original local disorder might escape notice, unless the case were very attentively investigated. Our examination after death often detects the existence of primary local affections. This is an observation that holds good in many instances, where either the brain or the alimentary canal ■are the primary seat of disease. All disorders of the bruin that may produce febrile disturbance of the system are not charac. terised by strongly-marked local symptoms ; and, in the same way, there are slighter symptoms of disease in the alimentary canal that might escape notice, unless scrutiny be made. Again, there are other cases in which we can observe no local affec- tion during life, but in which, when we come to examine the parts after death, we sometimes very unexpectedly find serious and local disorder, where we have not really suspected the ex- istence of it Now, if we put together the cases that may be arranged 1 under the heads I have just mentioned, we shall find that there j is a distinct and recognisable local cause in forty-nine cases it out of fifty of fever ; or, probably, we should be safe in saying, i ninety-nine out of a hundred; still we occasionally see in-