255 WOUNDS RECEIVED IN DISSECTION. that these will become apparent within a certain time; that they exhibit a certain character, not difficult to be described i before haud, and you can ascertain, pretty clearly, the symp- toms and the course of such injuries. But we can give no such description of injuries that arise from wounds received in dissection. If they arise from a poison, then it is one of a very uncertain, and almost, you might say, capricious kind. In the first case, in the great majority of instances of wounds received in dissection, no injurious effect is produced. There are hundreds and hundreds of such wounds always occurring without any injurious consequence. It is really only in a very small proportion out of the whole number of wounds that are received, that any prejudicial effects are produced in the human frame. We can, perhaps, quite as well explain the occurrence of these effects, when they do take place, by a reference to the particular state of health of the individual in whom they occur, as by any particular virulent property that might be applied to the wound. Now, it has happened to myself, when I was employed in dissection, as it has happened to many gentlemen present, to cut myself hundreds of times, in dissecting bodies of all kinds—in dissecting bodies that have died under every variety of disease, and 1 never experienced any ill effect but once, and then I was not in very good health. I had an inflam- mation of the finger, with swelling up the hand and arm, and, subsequently, swelling of the glands in the axilla, with sup- puration. There are cases, however, in which important local effects are produced, and in which very serious, and even dan- gerous symptoms occur. It is then, perhaps, rather a question of curiosity than one of direct practical consequence, whether these effects arise from a poisonous matter communicated to the frame, or whether they owe tLoir origin to a particular state of health in the in- dividual at tire time the wound is inflicted. In the first place, we cannot point out any particular state of a dead body, or any condition of previous disease, that will certainly give rise to any set of symptoms in these cases. Indeed, we shall observe an individual receive a prick or a cut in the dissection of a certain subject, and suffer certain inconvenience from it; while others, who have dissected the same subject, suffer no injurious consequences at all from a similar injury. Thus, in the majority of instances, the effects that are pro- duced seem to be merely such as would arise from the infliction of the wounds considered in themselves, without any reference to the state of decomposition of the dissected bodies in which they occur. Inflammation comes on in the seat of the wound ; suppuration may take place; the absorbents leading from it