TREATMENT OF ABSCESS. 129 jf * a process of ulceration ; and thus when pus has proceeded pom any of the mucous cavities having' external outlets, it has #;een supposed that ulceration existed in those parts, to account pr the discharge of the pus. All these notions, of course, iiave vanished, in proportion as correct physiological observa- tions have prevailed, and in proportion as minute examinations jjtve been instituted after death; and though, even not many tears ago, several controversies existed on these points, they tee now so completely settled, that it is not worth while again ) i revert to them. ‘ It has been further supposed, in order to produce a fluid possessing all the characters of pus in their full development, j.iat a certain process of elaboration is necessary; that is, that ire fluid is deposited in a part, first in a certain state, and that :: undergoes changes which gradually bring it to pus; and this eems to be countenanced by the term maturation, or ripening, j^ed by the old writers. Now the fact is, that pus is secreted r: once; there is no passing through changes ; there is no ela- boration which brings it into that coudition, except so far as ogards thejirst process; for then, as I mentioned to you, there an actual separation of the part, in order to form that cavity i which it is deposited. The fluid first secreted has a serous, and !!>metimes a bloody character, though afterwards we find, in -le same part, the secretion possessing all the characters I have ^escribed to you as belonging to pus. This only applies, how- ever, to the commencement of the process; and in the same :ay in the instance of denuded skin, and also of inflamed , iucous membrane, we do not find that the fluid first secreted, as all the ultimate qualities of pus. A serous fluid is first oured out on the inflamed skin, and that is gradually changed ito a fluid containing globules, which constitutes pus. There a similar change from the colourless viscid secretion of arous membrane to that of the thick purulent secretion, which rroceeds from mucous parts. In some instances we see ap- earances which lead one to suppose there is really something •ke giving way, and breaking down of the parts in which appuration takes place. Now, some time ago, I had a patient i this hospital, who had been sent from the Fever Hospital, in •horn an abscess had formed in the hip; I made a puncture, nd allowed it to discharge. As it ran out it appeared to me ) look partly like oil; and I saw, when it was poured into the essel, that it consisted of well-formed pus, and a good deal of il. After the opening had discharged for a considerable time, found something obstruct the flow through the aperture; / aid bold of that, and taking it away, I found it to be a con- •iderable portion of adipose substance of the part that had been