NATURE AND CLASSIFICATION OF DISEASES. 37 accordingly. You know, therefore, when you hear that the animal is referred to either of these classes, almost all the lead- ing circumstances about its economy even before you are ac- quainted with the animal itself. If we could construct classes of diseases, founded on such obvious and well-established cha- racters, it would very much facilitate the business of the stu- dent. But when we come to look at the arrangement of Cullen —suppose we take his Tumores, what do we find ?—aneurisms, eechymosis, varix, tumours of all kinds, scirrhus, cancers, bubos, warts, corns, exostosis, swellings of the joints, hydatids, &c.; and, in fact, his definition of tumours, “swelling of a part without any inflammation,” would include a pregnant uterus! What has he under the head Dyalyses, that is, the separation of parts? Under that we find wounds, frac- tures, ulcers, caries, herpes, tinea, psora, or the itch! These qre only examples of such arrangement as composes the whole of this celebrated nosology •, and yet, I believe, that in some institutions, students are not eligible to be examined, touching their other qualifications, before they have been questioned as to their knowledge of Cullen’s nosology ! Thus, it is required that a person should have his mind filled up with trash and rubbish. If real knowledge of disease can be communicated, it is all very well; but, if not, I think it much better to leave the mind empty than to fill it with stuff of this kind. Now as diseases, for the most part, consist of changes of the state of organs of the body, the proper ground of division would be anatomical; at all events that would be a ground of dis- tinction that would not involve any error. There are two ways of proceeding ; there is the anatomy of form and position, and that of texture. The former is called descriptive, the latter general, anatomy. The latter shows the composition of organs, applying a kind of analysis to the parts, reducing them into their constituent elements. This part of the science was almost created by Bichat, a man of great genius and singular industry, who died at the early age of 33, and yet has left behind him a name that will live as long as the science of medicine shall be cultivated. In his work called Anatomie General*, he has explained this anatomy of structure. He has, as far as it could be done, reduced the organs of the body to their ori- ginal elements. He has determined their nature, and shown the proportions in which they enter into the different parts of the body. If we knew enough of the elementary or original organic structure of which the body is composed, we could then put down under that head all the various disturbances of each sys- tem, and thus we should have a natural arrangement of the