ON SUPPURATION AND 130 floating' in the abscess, and the oil which came out had been, no doubt, contained in the adipose cells. In the case of suppuration of certain glands, there is an ob- vious admixture of the substance of the part with the pus; this is the case, for instance, with respect to the liver, where part of the substance is found in the pus, giving it what is called its hepatic appearance. The pus is of a kind of yellow hue, derived from the colour of the texture of the liver. The surface, then, of the abscess secretes the pus which the abscess contains, and it is also capable of absorbing, or taking up again the fluid which it has deposited; it is a secreting and absorbing surface; hence we may regard the cyst of an abscess as a kind of new organ developed in the body. Symptoms.—With regard to the symptoms of suppuration; when inflammation has been of a violent kind, when it lias been rapid in its progress, when there has been considerable pain, and that preternatural throbbing which characterises it, we may expect that suppuration will occur. The actual form* ation of matter in the part is characterised by a remission of the local pain; the pain becomes less severe; it seems fre- quently to stop altogether; soon, however, a kind of dull aching sensation, a sensation of weight, occurs in the part; there is a sense of tension, and in cases of the formation of matter, a kind of pulsation—a pulsation synchronous with that of the heart, takes place immediately before the formation of matter; and during the time it is forming, it is not uncommon to have rigours or shiverings, and these have generally been regarded as one of the most certain signs of matter in the abscess. Now the truth is, that matter frequently forms without the occur- rence of rigours, and rigours often occur when no suppuration takes place; there is no necessary connexion between the oc- currence of rigours and suppuration. Rigours occur in most of the spontaneous inflammations of the body. The most unequivocal evidence, however, of matter having formed in a part, is the soft feel which the presence of matter communicates to the hand of the examiner. When you come to feel the part,you are sensible that a fluid exists in it; and if you feel it with your two hands, making a pressure alternately with the one and the other, you find that the fluid can be per- ceived moving from one side to the other, and that it thus im- parts the sensation of what is called fluctuation. It is often a matter of consequence to ascertain whether matter is formed or whether it is not, and hence we frequently have to examine the part very carefully in order to discover this point. It is diffi- cult to describe sensations, and I do not know that it can be done; I can only say, you will be able to ascertain the kind of » * »' ■