ACRID AND ESCIIAROTIC SUBSTANCES. 23? i fine wbeaten flour. Taking an ordinary flour-dredger, as it is • called, that is, a tin receptacle, the top of which is perforated with holes, you sprinkle the parts over until they are covered • with a thick stratum of the flour; in fact, proceeding with it j just in the way I have mentioned to you with respect to the < cotton. This has been stated to be an effectual, a very effectual ■ mode of treating burns, but I have not myself had any experi- ence on the subject. Effects of Acrid and Escharotic Substances—There are va- 1 rious chemical substauces which are stated to have the effect of 1 immediately decomposing the textures of the body. The effect of pure potash is well known to medical men, who are in the i continual habit of making use of it. Ammonia, lime, strong acids, nitrate of silver, muriate of ammonia—all these various substances are employed as escharotics, as they are called, that is, they make an eschar. They decompose, they burn or destroy, the part of the living body to which they are applied, convert- ing it into a brown or dark-looking substance. They all de- prive the part to which they are applied of life, although they do this each in its own peculiar way, that is, the appearance of 1 the part after the application of the substances, varies in each particular instance. The action of lime is peculiar in some instances. Lime, when applied to the cornea of the eye, com- pletely destroys the transparency of the part, and reduces it into a fine powder. The particular effect of nitrate of silver, when applied to a part of the body where there is a discharge, it is well known, produces a whitish film ou the surface. The truth is, that nitrate of silver is decomposed whenever it comes in contact with any animal discharge, so that muriate of sil- ver is formed, which constitutes the white pelicle after the nitrate of silver is rubbed on the surface of an ulcer. LECTURE XIX. Injuries of a Mixed, Nature. Poisoned Wounds —Hydrophobia—Bites and Stings. Gentlemen,—Continuing the subject of injuries, I proceed to speak to you of poisoned wounds. Hydrophobia.—The term hydrophobia, which means, simply, a fear of water, is applied to denote that dreadful, and, indeed, as far as our present knowledge extends, invariably fatal dis-