ON SUPPURATION, AND 128 pus ; that is, the kind of purulent secretion which is produced by a high degree of inflammation occurring in a healthy indi- vidual. That, no doubt, must be the reason which has given rise to the term of—good laudable pus. The thick and uniform pus, found under these circumstances, is found to be heavier than water; so that if it be received into a vessel of water, it falls to the bottom ; and that has been considered a criterion to distinguish between purulent and mucous secretion. A very great deal of trouble has been taken to establish a criterion of difference between the two; for, under certain circumstances, it becomes a matter of importance to consider whether a fluid is a suppurative fluid, or a mucous secretion. Unfortunately, however, no very distinct criterion of difference has yet been found in animal chemistry, between the thick creamy fluid found in an abscess, and the ordinary exhalation of mucous membranes. Generally, there are such obvious differences, that we are not in any want of a minute criterion; but we are to recollect that, under inflammation, those membranes which secrete mucus, come to secrete a fluid which is afterwards very like pus. And 1 believe there is no certain test by which it can be discovered, whether a certain animal fluid is the natural product of a mucous membrane, or of the suppurative process of inflamed vessels; that is, there is, I believe, no certain test by which we can distinguish pus from mucus. Mucus cer- tainly floats in water generally, instead of sinking to the bot- tom as pus does, but this is by no means constant. Now the mucus secretion which takes place from the bladder, sinks to the bottom of the chamber-pot in the urine, though the urine is a great deal heavier than water. Mucus is ropy, slimy, and viscid, while pus does not present any thing of this cha- racter. But, then, when we view the gradual progress of the inflammation by which mucus sometimes assumes the character of pus, we become still more puzzled, in the application of a criterion for discovering the difference. Pus is secreted from the surface of the cavity which contains it—secreted or exhaled. Heretofore an opinion has been enter- tained that pus is produced by a breaking down of the natural textures of the part; this idea, no doubt, having arisen from, the existence of the cavity that is found in a part where the suppuration has taken place. You see a large excavation, and the first impression is, that the pus contained there has con- sisted of the natural textures that before filled the cavity, which, by some strange process, have been reduced to the form of pus. Again, it has been supposed that pus is formed by some stag- nation or putrefaction of the fluids of the part. It has further been maintained that pus can only be formed in consequence