TETANUS. 230 There was difficulty in opening the mouth, and in masticating; pain behind the sternum extending through to the spine ; his pulse full aud strong ; his bowels, had, however, been pretty effectually relieved by the opening medicine he had taken the day previous. I told him that he should go to bed immediately, for he was then sitting up as if he had been going about his ordinary avocations. He was very largely bled, and 1 prescribed very active medicines. The blood was found next day to be buffed and cupped; the opening medicine had acted freely, and he was better. I prescribed a repetition of venesection, and a continuation of the aperients, being desirous of producing a still further action on the alimentary canal. He took a pretty large dose of calomel aud jalap, which was followed up by a purgative draught composed of senna and salts, but on this occasion, no effect was produced by them. It being a few miles from town, I did not see him in the evening, but the medical gentleman in attendance gave him a large quantity of castor oil, which did not act; he also administered a glyster, but neither did that operate. By the time, then, that I saw him next day, all these medicines had not acted, and all the symp- toms were considerably worse: the neck and back had become affected. 1 therefore immediately directed the administration of the croton oil. He took a single drop in a tea-spoonful of light gruel, and within about an hour, a most violent action was produced in the bowels. He discharged such a quantity of matter of various kinds from them, as altogether astonished him, and all those about him. They seemed to be quite at a loss to know how to describe the quantity. It seemed he had filled and over-filled the close-stool pan, and that so abuudant a discharge had taken place from the bowels, as was never be- fore witnessed. This was followed by considerable relief of all the symptoms, but still the complaint went on, and, in fact, it proceeded to the full development of tetanus over the whole body. The treatment of the case consisted, from this time, in the regular administration of the croton oil, so as to secure a continued action of the bowels. In the first instance, a drop of the oil did this ; but, after a time or two more, it required a drop and a half, and then the evacuations were very copious indeed. It was observed by the gentleman in attendance, that if ever he had to prescribe anything again in the shape of anti- spasmodics, he would exhibit the croton oil, because it bad, in this instance a much greater effect than any thing he had ever seen, the muscles, which before were very rigid, being soon very much relaxed ; indeed the patient himself acknowledged, although greatly depressed and weakened by the effect, the power that it had in relaxing the rigidity. 1 need not detail