ON SUPPURATION AND 144 thinking that I felt a fluctuation, I was led to puncture it: which, as the operation would have been rather formidable, was, at all events, a proper precaution. I had no sooner punc- tured it than out came about a cupful of tolerably well-formed matter. I have seen patients in the hospital, who have been laid upon the table for the removal of tumours, when, in conse- quence of a supposition by some one that there was fluctua- tion, the tumours have been punctured, and found to be of this description, the matter being let out. I remember the case of one person who came up from Wales with a tumour under the jaw, and who spoke to me upon the subject. I exa- mined it particularly. It was under the sterno-mastoideus, and a very firm tumour. I dissected it out. It required an incision to be made from the chin to the sternum ; and, when taken out, its external appearance led me to suppose it a very hard and dense tumour; but, on being cut into, it was found to consist of a very compact and tough cyst, full of pus. These cases show you what mistakes may occur with regard to matter formed with very little previous inflammation ; and they afford you an important caution, that in any doubtful case, where you think of extirpating a tumour, a preliminary puncture should be made, which is quite a safe measure, and may save the patient from the sufferings of a severe operation. They show you that, in certain cases, though the formation of matter takes place in this insensible way, there may be as ranch condensation in the surrounding cellular tissue as to afford a very tough and firm feel, though, in chronic inflamma- tion, the cyst is generally thin, by no means possessing the at- tributes I have mentioned; and, in the instance of the gentle- man before spoken of, in whom the tumour formed in the neck, and had j>een there two years, the cyst was so thin, that when the matter was discharged, you could not have supposed there bad been any swelling there at all; one side of the neck ap- peared just like the other. In consequence, then, of chronic abscess forming with so little vascular disturbance of the part, without any of that heat or redness which precedes suppuration in acute inflammation, and with the limb possessing its apparently natural tempera- ture, or, at all events, without much augmentation, suppura- tions of this kind have been called cold abscesses—abscessus frigidi—the absces froids of the French—in opposition to hot abscesses. There is another distinction between the two kinds of ab- scess, afforded by the nature of their contents. You will na- turally expect that local actions, so dissimilar in their character, should produce very different results. You find, accordingly,