62 INFLAMMATION, they have founded on this alleged difference a corresponding diversity of treatment, asserting that the chronic requires tonics and stimulating treatment, and that the acute calls for the contrary ; I consider that this view is altogether erroneous. Without undertaking to say there is no difference between the acute and chronic generally, I have no hesitation in stating, that there is no essential difference between the acute and chronic stages of one and the same inflammation. The chronic period is one of less violent disturbance, but still it is the same kind of disorder, only differing somewhat in degree. In proof of this, we find the acute passing into the chronic, and the chronic may relapse into the acute. When inflammation in the eye has gone into its chronic stage, if the person uses the organ, and has other causes of excitement applied to it, he may have, all on a sudden, the phenomena of the acute reproduced; and when you find in those states that the one condition can pass into the other, and vice versa, I think you cannot admit, for a moment, the notion that they are opposite in their nature and require opposite treatment. Again *, we sometimes hear of active and passive inflamma* ■ tion, which convey to my mind either no notion at all, or an i erroneous one. I have mentioned to you, generally, that in-- flamination consists in increased action, and consequently passive inflammation implies a contradiction in terms. The notion of passive inflammation is founded on the same erro- neous view which I have mentioned respecting the chronic,, that there is a condition of inflammation dependent on debility. Admitting the acute to depend on augmented action, it has been contended that chronic must depend on the contrary : II know of no such state. It is true, inflammations will differ according to the strength or weakness of patients ; but what II mean to contend for is, that there is no inflammation takiDg. its origin from a state of weakness of the parts themselves. A\ state of weakness, in some cases, may be the remote cause, but' when inflammation occurs, that inflammation is owing to a state of increased action in the vessels of the part. We also hear of the terms arterial and venous congestion. I acknowledge that these convey no kind of clear idea to my mind. The minute vessels, tiie capillary system, in which inflammation seems, incontestably to rest, is an inextricable, net-work, in which we cannot distinguish arteries from veins. After we have reached a certain point, we cannot make a difference between them ; therefore we are quite unable to say that one state of inflammation is owing to the congestion of arteries, and another to that ot the veins. Inflammation differs essentially in the effect it is capable of