2S ON THE NATURE AND SEAT OF DISEASES. may be affected by causes acting immediately upon them ; and all organs may also be affected secondarily; that is, in conse- quence of disease previously existing in some other organ. If boiling water be poured upon the skin, inflammation of the skin is produced. If a wound be inflicted, we have the same result; these are primary affections of the skin. If a person take certain sorts of food, for instance, some kinds of shell-fish, or if he get his stomach disturbed in any other way, he may have an attack of nettle-rash, or urticaria, the skin being affected secondarily, through the medium of the stomach. If a person have a blow on the head, or if he employ his mind intently, he may get headach, or other disorder of the head. Agaiu, he may get the same kind of symptoms if his stomach is overloaded, or his bowels are costive. The stomach may be disordered, and a person may become sick, in consequence of eating certain food. Again, serious injuries to the head will produce sickness, and these are primary and secondary diseases of the stomach. Primary disease is also called idiophatic, and secondary, sym- pathetic. Idiophatic disease is an affection of any part pro- duced by a cause acting immediately on that part. Secondary or sympathetic disease is excited by the existence of disorder in some other organ. I fancy there will, or, at least, there ought to be, no difficulty in recognising that all organs may be primarily diseased, that each part may be disturbed in the execution of those functions which naturally belong to it. Thus the lungs, stomach, intes- tines, urinary organs, &c., may be affected through causes applied to them in the execution of their several offices ; yet, when persons have attended much to some part, they have sometimes been disposed to refer all diseases to primary dis- turbance of such part. Thus, one has attached very great importance to diseases of the liver, and has fancied this organ to be the source of almost all disease; another has regarded the stomach and alimentary canal in the same light. This has been the case of late years, particularly in the metropolis of a neighbouring country, where a physician of great eminence has, I believe, held the opinion that almost all diseases of the body originate in the part of the frame before referred to, viz. the stomach and alimentary canal. Now I should regard all these views as partial and erroneous, and have no hesitation in believing that all parts may be originally diseased, and, of course, in admitting that all may be secondarily disordered. In proportion to the importance of an organ, will be the influ- ence that it may have over others. No doubt, in this point of view, the parts that are concerned in the office of digestion,—