LECTURE XI. tOn Suppuration, Formation of Abscess, a»c? Treatment. Suppuration, gentlemen, is the formation of the fluid which is called pus; it is one of the effects of inflammation; there- ifore, wherever we find pus, we are sure either that there is, or '.that there has been, inflammation of the part. Pus is a whitish ior yellowish fluid, varying in consistence from that of thick •.cream to that of water; and it is found, on microscopic exa- mination, to consist of globules floating in thin fluid, ill that respect bearing some analogy to the constitution of the blood. 'Thedifference in consistence, and in the other properties of pus, depends chiefly on the nature and on the degree of the inflam- imation, and on the structure of the part in which it is formed. I Pus is sometimes thick and homogeneous; sometimes it is curdy, f flaky, or clottish ; that is, it consists of parts that are thicker, ^swimming, or contained, in a thinner fluid; sometimes it is serous or watery; sometimes it is viscid or slimy. I have spoken to you of suppuration as an effect of inflam- i mation; but the formation of pus is not confined to the circum- stances which were then explained and alluded to. Pus may be formed on the denuded surface of the skin, for example, after the application of a blister. It may be formed on the sur- face of inflamed mucous membrane, and that of inflamed serous membrane, and that of inflamed synovial membrane. It may be formed on the surface of wounds, and of ulcerations; and, lastly, it may be formed in consequence of inflammation in the interior, or in the substance of various organs; and when pus is thus formed, the collection of fluid which it constitutes is called an abscess. An abscess, therefore, consists of a collection of purulent matter in the interior of any part of the body, excepting, how- ever, the regular or normal cavities ; for when pus, or any other kind of fluid is deposited in them, we call it an effusion, and not an abscess. Inflammation, as I have already informed you, varies very greatly in different instances, in the violepce of its symptoms, and in the rapidity of its progress; sometimes going through its course within a very short time, at others occupying a very long period; and the formation of matter, or suppuration, par- takes, in this respect, of that variety of character which is ob- served in the inflaminatiou that produces it. You may have pus