132 ON SUPPURATION AND dating the textures which surround the abscess, forming a bar- rier to limit and iusolate it from the surrounding parts. But another, and quite a different process, is necessary, in order to bring the matter to the external surface. You must have a re- gular removal of the parts which intervene between the abscess ; and the surface; and you find that those parts are regularly and progressively removed, so that the external coverings of the abscess become thinner and thinner, and the feeling of fluid becomes more and more obvious; the fluctuation, as it is tech- nically called, is more easily perceived. As this process goes on, the swelling in the circumference of the abscess becomes reddened, and, at the same time, the central portion where the sense of fluctuation is perceived, swells more considerably, raising up a sort of prominence of the skin; that prominence often assumes a pointed form, and we then begin to see the part at which the abscess will break. This is the stage of the process which is technically called the pointing of an abscess. When the matter approaches to the surface, the skin becomes red, tense, and shiuing. As the skin becomes thinner and thinner, this redness becomes deeper in tint; it assumes a livid hue. Lastly, the skin ulcerates, and then the matter escapes at the opening. If the cuticle covering the ulcerated part of the skin be very thick, as in the palm of the hand, or the sole of the foot, you will find that the matter will elevate the cuticle, that it will often separate the cuticle extensively from the cutis, and thus, though the cavity has given way, the pus is not dis- charged externally ; but when the cuticle is raised in this man- ner, it ultimately gives way also, and then the matter escapes. At first a certain quantity only escapes at the aperture thus made, for the opening formed by the ulceration of the skin, is, in general, a very small one; but as much escapes through it as relieves the tension, and the patient is considerably relieved from the pain he has before experienced. The sides of the abscess contract in consequence of this diminution of the quantity of its contents. When a fresh quantity of pus has been secreted, it again flows out at the opening, and the size of the aperture becomes larger: it progressively increases, so as to allow the whole to drain away. The sides of the abscess again contract, the aperture becomes smaller, it cicatrises, the part heals, and thus a natural cure takes place. Sometimes, however, in parts where motion is constantly occurring, and also in some places where we do not accurately observe the condition of the part, the cavity of the abscess does not become completely obliterated; it is reduced to a small extent, but still there is an external opening, from which matter escapes, and we find that that leads into a stnull tube of