208 LACERATIONS AND CONTUSIONS. able extent, the local inflammation, and consequent febrile disturbance, may very likely require a very active antiphlo- gistic treatment. You may have occasion to take blood gene- rally, or by leeches; and also to adopt those other antiphlo- gistic means, which, together with rest, are likely to accom- plish your object. A patient was some time since brought into this hospital and put under my care, who having got drunk while driving a coal-waggon, fell with one leg just in front of the wheel. The wheel caught the leg exactly at the bend of the knee; it did not go over the limb, but dragged it forward on the ground, without actually going over it. He was brought to the hospital with a wound about five inches in length across the lower part of the knee, just below the patella, and about three inches in transverse measurement. The inte- guments, the cellular membrane, and nearly the whole of the extensor muscles of the knee, were divided, in consequence of the limb having been dragged by the wheel. The surface of the wound, it being wet dirty weather at the time, had just the appearance of a mass of dark London mud, for the lacerated flesh was thoroughly incorporated with the filth of the ground, over which he had been dragged. There was great reason, in the first instance, to apprehend that the knee-joint was laid open; but it afterwards appeared, that although the capsular membrane was exposed, it was not divided. Now, in this case, the limb was laid straight, and a couple of splints were placed along it to keep it perfectly at rest. It was cleaned, and covered with a soft poultice. In the course of the evening it was found that the patient’s pulse had risen; twenty-four ounces of blood were taken from the arm, and he was purged. Next day, sixteen ounces more blood were taken from the arm, he was purged again, and placed on low diet. On the following day, he was again bled from the arm to the extent of sixteen ounces. This treatment completely prevented the occurrence of local inflammation and general febrile disturb- ance, and no further action took place in the parts than was just sufficient to accomplish the purpose of healing. The sur- face of the wound cleansed; a superficial slough took place from the whole of it; it then granulated very copiously; and although, at first, a very formidable injury, the healing process went regularly on, occupying about two months; and, in this way, this very formidable injury was healed, without any great local suffering, and without any febrile disturbance of the system. Bruises.—In the injury which we call a bruise, or contusion, considerable force is applied to the soft parts of the body. The cohesion of those parts is loosened; the structure is con-