76 LECTURE VII. Sympathetic Inflammation.—Disorder of the Digestive Organs. I have hitherto spoken to you, gentlemen, of inflammation, as being brought on by causes which act immediately on the affected part; either by such as certainly and necessarily pro- duce it in somq degree wherein they are applied, or such as act only on individuals who have been previously disposed to re- ceive their influence. I have mentioned to you as the most powerful of the circumstances which gave a free disposition to inflammatory disease, fulness of habit, or, as it is technically called, plethora, brought on by an excess of nutrition. There are, however, other and numerous cases, in which we can trace no direct application of any cause to the affected part. At the same time we discern the existence of disturbance in other quarters, and find, in many cases, that the remedy for this dis- turbance will cure the inflammation. Hence we consider, that the latter is the consequence of disturbance in other parts of the economy. The former are called cases of idiophatic in- flammation, in which there are causes directly applied ; the latter, sympathetic, which may be defined as the consequence of disease previously existing in other parts ; it is disease ex- cited by, or dependent on, the previous existence of disease elsewhere. Now I shall just exemplify this sympathetic occurrence of inflammation by certain cases, which will show you the manner in which it takes place. I had a gentleman under my care, who laboured under an affection of the glands of the axilla. He was a young man, accustomed to very free living, and did not submit very willingly to those restraints of diet his case re- quired. One day he thought he felt himself low and weak, and fancied that a good meal would do him good. He accordingly eat a hearty dinner, and drank some wine in opposition to the injunctions I had issued. He found himself not at all the worse for this, perhaps rather better, and this induced him to repeat the indulgence. On the day after, he took another very hearty meal, drank some bottled ale, and acknowledged that he had drunk about a pint of port wine afterwards. This disor- dered him very much, he passed a very bad night, and felt very unwell the following day. In the course of the second day he became excessively ill indeed ; he was very hot, restless, and could get no sleep; be had intense and violent pain in the