65 LECTURE VI. Causes and Effects of Inflammation. When speaking: to you, gentlemen, in the last lecture, of Ihe varieties of inflammatory process, I fear, that in the attempt to conclude the subject within the period of one hour, I may -not have explained myself so fully on all the points as I should have wished. I spoke to you of the various effects which inflammation produces, but I do not know tliat I enumerated them completely; I now, therefore, recapitulate what 1 then stated. It is difficult to give an exact description of all the stages which are included between the first deviation from a con- dition of health and the more striking effects of disease. But I endeavoured to enumerate the various results of the process, nearly in the following terms: Irritation, or Disorder.—This, in respect to internal organs, is evinced simply by an alteration of functions; and we can- not exactly say whether, under certain disturbances in them, such actual organic change is produced as would warrant the term inflammation; but in external parts, we are often able to see such a disturbance accompanying even slight alteration of the functions. Thus, distention of the vessels of the eye will arise from a slight cause; we should have no means of ascertaining the existence of a similar condition, if it were in an internal organ. We shall consider irritation, or disorder, then, as the first step in the deviation from health, when any cause of disease is applied to a part. We have, besides con- gestion, or what is called determination of blood, a condition which is generally ascertainable after death, for you can see a preternatural fulness of vessels in the organ: haemorrhage— that)*, a breach of some of the vessels of a part, in consequence of which blood is effused, making its appearance externally if it takes place on the surface of a membrane, having an external opening, or in internal parts if there be no external opening; effusion of serum, effusion of lymph, suppuration, ulceration, and gangrene. We must regard these various circumstances only as modifications of the inflammatory state. We cannot ex- actly assert that all these are simple differences in degree. We cannot, in that respect, compare them to eaeh'other, because we find that differences of texture produce a tendency to one form of change rather than another, without our being able to say that the one is either more or less than the other. Haemorr- F