166 ON ULCERATION. I think, been employed in Leadenhall Market, and had to over- haul parcels of old hides that came from South America. One of them swept along his cheek, he was aware that it touched it, and left something there, but did not take much notice of it. However, his cheek, about an inch and a half below the eye, first of all became red and swollen as if by oedema; then, ra- ther more than an inch of that part became shining and still redder; it then turned black and mortified, and, in fact, sloughed. A pretty deep slough formed on the cheek of that individual; suppuration took place in a very natural way, and the part cicatrised. He lost a great part of the cheek, arid the lower eyelid was ralher pulled down by the cicatrisation. There was no very particular circumstance attending it, but it is a singular kind of example of the immediate deleterious effect which certain animal substances are capable of producing on the body. LECTURE XIV. Ulceration. — Absorption. — Granulation. — Treatment.—Reproduction of lost Parts. The matter of abscess, gentlemen, advances, in consequence of the removal of the intervening substance by the absorbents, to the surface of the body, or to the surface of those internal cavities which have external outlets, such as the digestive, the respiratory, the urinary or generative organs. A similar pro- gress towards the surface of the body is observed in cases of aneurism, in the growth of which, not only are the soft textures removed, hut often even portions of bone, when they impede the progress of the aneurismal tumour, are removed, and appa- rently with great facility, by means of the absoibents. This is an example (showing a preparation) of aneurism of the aorta, where there is a large cavity made through the sternum, and on one side through the ribs, by which the aneurism had ad- vanced to the external surface. This again [exhibiting ano- ther preparation] is an aneurism of the descending aorta, and you perceive that the ribs and side of the vertebral column are in like manner removed by absorption. In the same way tumours, although formed deeply in the body, that is, at considerable distance from the external sur- face, make their way outwards by the gradual removal of the parts which cover them. This is not only the case with tu-