287 VENEREAL DISEASES. end of the fifteenth century. Now about that period two remarkable events took place. The first of these was the dis- covery of what was called the new world, by Colutnbus ; who returned from the island of Saint Domingo, to Spain, in 1493, .after discovering the islands of the West Indies; the other event to which I have alluded was the invasion and conquest of Naples by Charles VIII. king of France, who entered that city in the year 1495. Now the origin of syphilis has com- : inonly been referred to one or other of these two events, Many, have believed that syphilis was a disease originally epidemic in the West Indies, in the part that was first discovered by l Columbus—the Island of Hayti; that it was brought to : Europe by the companions and followers of that navigator, and 'was thence disseminated over this part of the world. For my , part, I cau see no direct evidence—in fact, no evidence at all, ' that syphilis existed in the island at the time that Columbus discovered it; certainly no account of any such affection is .given in the original narrative of the expedition of Columbus, nor in the earliest accounts published of what was seen and observed there ; and the idea of the origin of venereal disease .in the West Indies, in the way that I have mentioned, is first suggested by writers who went to Saint Domingo some time after it was visited by Columbus. Farther—we find, on examining the historical evidence upon . this subject, that there are unequivocal traces of the existence of the venereal disease in Europe some years prior to the discovery of Hayti by Columbus. We meet with passages in the writings of authors who lived eight or ten years before that time, which show that the venereal disease was then uot unknown. There is, ■in particular, a passage from a letter from Peter Martyr, who : filled an important situation in Spain, dated 1488, (before the ■ time that Columbus made the discovery), which affords une- quivocal proof that the venereal disease was known at that ■ time. If the venereal disease had been found by Columbus and his crew in Saint Domingo—if they contracted it and brought it : back to Europe, we should expect to find that it had first existed i in Spain, and that it had extended from Spain over the rest of Eu- rope. Now we do uot find that such was the case. If we consider : that the venereal disease first originated at the time alluded to, it appears that it had broken out in Italy or Frsnce, not in Spain; and the name by which the disease was known in the first instance, points out this circumstance clearly. The name : that was first given to the venereal disease, and which, in fact, it has retained up to the present day, is inorbu^allicus—the French disease. It was called by the Germans the French