EFFECTS OF MERCURY. 313 think, there can be no difficulty in admitting—that the em- ployment of mercury, under such circumstances, may increase the difficulties which belong to the disease itself, i cannot, however, myself, at present see any evidence that mercury is capable of producing these symptoms, which we are in the habit of witnessing as the effects of syphilitic poison, where no mercury has been used ; and certainly there are injurious effects enough arising from mercury, without adding those that do not belong to it. In fact, all we want is a knowledge of the truth—to know what the remedy is capable of effecting, and what it is not—to understand what advantages and what dis- advantages it may produce on the system, and not to carry our notions of it beyond what is legitimate; for the remedy, un- doubtedly, is a valuable one, and we might be led by incorrect notions to reject its influence in cases where it would be really of service. A consideration simply of those prejudicial effects of the remedy, would, of course, naturally lead us to restrict the employment of it to cases in which we deem it absolutely ne- cessary, and also to endeavour to procure the effect we wish by as small a portion as can be used. This naturally leads to two questions, first, whether a slight degree of action of the mercury on the mouth, may be consi- dered a proof that it has produced all the effect necessary for the removal of the venereal disease, or whether a more considerable effect is necessary generally, or in particular cases? It has been much the habit in modem times to produce a sensible effect on the mouth, and then to discontinue the mercury, under a no- tion, that when the mouth is affected at all, the system has ex- perienced a sufficient influence for the removal of the disease. I cannot coincide with this opinion. In a great number of in- stances, a slight effect of mercury on the mouth is sufficient; but there are instances in which that slight effect does not re- move the symptoms, and in which, when the remedy is carried further, so as to produce a more considerable influence, the symptoms give way. In fact, I think, we never see the symp- toms of syphilis yield so rapidly, and so favourably, as in cer- tain cases where the remedy, perhaps without our wishing it, has produced a pretty profuse salivation. Under these circum- stances, we may notice a sudden and rapid amelioration of the symptoms, which we are not in the habit of seeing when the mouth is affected in a slighter degree only. Another question immediately connected witn the same point, is, how long the remedy should be continued ? Is it sufficient to destroy the venereal character of a sore, and to produce the healthy process of restoration ? Would you leave it off, then, and leave the ci- catrisation to form of itself? May you discontinue the use of