267 SCROFULA. is applicable ; and yet the individuals are very different from each other, and, of course, there is a difference in the progress of disease in each, and there must be a different mode of treat- ment for its removal. Direct or exciting Causes.—Of the direct or exciting causes, cold is the most common, particularly when combined with moisture. Hence considerable vicissitudes of temperature are favourable to the occurrence of scrofulous disease, and, conse- sequently, scrofulous disease is most common in the cold re- gions of the globe—in countries where the atmosphere is damp and cold, and where there are frequent changes in its condition. Great Britain, the northern parts of Germany and France, are countries in which it is very common indeed. But the occur- rence and frequency of scrofula ars not confined merely to the situations! have just mentioned. Professor Beere, who prac- tised at Vienna, a situation considerably to the south of the above countries, states, that of ophthalmic cases occurring in Vienna, nine out of ten are generally strumous 5 and Breschet says, that, according to his experience, the frequency of stru- mous ophthalmia is still greater. 1 have been informed that the late Dr. Gregory, of Edinburgh, used to state in his lectures, that he believed there was not a member of a family in Scot- land, but was disposed to scrofula ; and tbe present Dr. John Thomson, in his lectures, says, it is almost rare to meet with an individual who has not, in some part of his life, experienced disease in some of the forms of scrofula. Now, if these state- ments be correct, scrofula must be the most common disease we have to treat; although, in warm countries, it is less fre- quent than in the climates I have just mentioned, yet they are by no means exempt from it, because cold is only one exciting cause; there are several others, and the inhabitants of the warmer regions may be exposed to some of them; but still, warmer countries seem to be particularly favourable to the prevention-of scrofulous disease. It happens that the natives of warm climates suffer very much from disease, in all respects like scrofula, when they come into the colder countries. Now, negroes, when they come here, often fall victims to disease, which we cannot distinguish from scrofula; and, I may ob- serve, the same has been noticed in certain animals, which are considered by some philosophers as half brothers of negroes— I mean monkies. These are all inhabitants of tbe warmer coun- tries ; and when they come to pass a winter or two here, they suffer seriously from disease, and, generally speaking, if we examine them after death, we find disease corresponding very much with what we find in the human subject, when there is