SECONDARY SYMPTOMS. 357 —becomes shrivelled and wrinkled — miserably emaciated, fretful, aud irritable, and exhibits marks of the most unfavour- able constitutional affection ; and, in fact, if the complaint be not relieved, the infant very soon goes off. it has only happened to me in two instances to witness iritis as a symptom of syphilis in the infant. I have seen two in- stances of that, but all the other cases I have seen, and I have seen a great number, have consisted of more or less of the symptoms I have just mentioned to you. Sometimes there are particularly marked indurated ulcers about the anus ; that is, superficial ulceration, with elevated edges, and rather an in- dura ted base. The treatment, of these cases is very simple. You must ad- minister mercury; and, fortunately, these young subjects bear the administration of mercury very well. Half a grain, or three quarters of a grain, or a grain of calomel may be given night and morning; or four or five grains of the hydrarg. cum creth may be given night and morning, and this simple treatment accomplishes all we wish. You will find that under this treat- ment the local symptoms I have described very rapidly become better ; ulcerations, if they have been produced, heal rapidly; the scaly eruption of the skin goes off; the discharge from the nose ceases; the child recovers its flesh; and, really, in in- stances where children seem to have been so emaciated and reduced that you could not have expected any thing but disso- lution, you will find, in a very short time, that all the symp- toms are gone, and that the children gain health and strength. On the continent it appears to be the more general plan to ad- minister mercury through the mother, and to affect the child through her medium. Now I have found the direct adminis- tration of mercury to the child answer extremely well, so that I have generally adopted that kind of treatment. You should be aware that the syphilitic disease which I have now described to you, when it occurs in children, is capable of being communicated from children to sound women who suckle them; and that women who thus receive the in- fection are capable of communicating it to other persons ; thus it is of great importance that those who are nursing a child uuder these circumstances, should be aware of the necessity of employing all the necessary precaution for checking the propa- gation of the affection. The effect of the venereal disease, when it is introduced into the system of the mother, and when it thus influences the state of health of her offspring, is in some instances not confined to a single birth, but it extends to others; and that in cases where the woman has not received the infection imme-