170 ON GRANULATION. whitish appearance, and the skin ulcerates. While these changes are going on, the part is apt to take on a livid hue. When the detached and elevated cuticle is completely separated, we see a breach of the surface of tiie skin ; there is more or less of an excavation formed, in consequence of the ulcerative pro- cess. There may be one single spot of this kind, or there may be several contiguous ones, which at length unite and form one excavation, and this goes on extending in its circumference and depth. We find, when we examine it, that so long as the ulcerative process is going on, and before the process of restora- tion has commenced, there is a manifest excavation, or loss of substance, in the part. We see clearly that some portion of the body is removed. There is a chasm—a loss of substance; and the appearance of this chasm shows the nature of the pro- cess by which it has been effected. It has a kind of irregular eaten appearance; and the textures exposed by it are, in some manner, reconcilable with the cavity of the ulceration. The surface is, perhaps, of a dirty whitish, or yellowish hue. There is sometimes the appearance of fibres or threads on the surface; sometimes it is covered with pus, at others by a bloody fluid. The edges of the excavated ulceration are sharp and defined, and the margin of the surface around is red, hot, and painful. This is the appearance which an ulcer in the skin presents in its spreading state—so long as the process of ulceration is going on, and before any steps have been taken to repair the mischief which it has produced. I should mention to you, that unless the process of ulceration is put an end to, it extends through the skin, completely destroys the cutaneous texture, and goes into the cellular membrane; it may be capable of passing through it, and affecting the subjacent soft parts; and, in fact, there is no limit to its progress, if it is not checked. Granulation.—When the process of ulceration is checked, and when the removal of the textures of the body by absorption is put an end to, then we have a restorative process, by which the parts that have been removed are to be reinstated or repro- duced, The process of restoration is accomplished in nearly the same way under four different circumstances ; that is,Jirst, in breaches produced by ulcerative absorption in the external surface of the body ; secondly, in the ulcerative surface which is produced after the separation of a slough; thirdly, in the exposed cavity of an abscess, when this has been opened, or when it has become exposed by bursting; fourthly, in ulcera- tion on the surface of wounds in which there is loss of sub- stance, or where the sides of the wound are not brought in con- tact. The process of restoration, by which the surface is restored in each of these four cases, is essentially the same.