ITS PHENOMENA AND DIVISIONS. 61 change of structure is much more, and considerable and often serious disorganisation results from it, which importantly im- pairs, or quite destroys, the function of the part. The degree of.danger, then, in the two processes, is nearly in an inverse ratio to their apparent violence. We frequently bear and read of the expressions acute and chronic stages of iuflammatiou. If we survey any particular case, we do not find that the inflammation is one and the same process throughout; we find that there is a succession of phenomena; we find that inflammation commences insensibly, gradually increasing, till it acquires a certain development. It remains for a time in that state, and then gradually recedes as the part recovers a healthy condition. The whole of the cir- cumstances embraced iu this course, pass under the name of inflammation, and yet the various portions of the progress differ considerably from each other. If we were to divide each in- flammation into three periods—a period of formation, iu which the disease arises and proceeds to a certain extent, a period of full development, and another of decline, we should find the two first of these are nearly alike in active process, that is, they occupy nearly the same length of time ; but the third period, that which intervenes from the symptoms beginning to lessen, until the part recovers its uatural state, differs very much in its duration in different instances. When the disease is very violent, when it is allowed to pursue its progress uncontrolled ; when the patient neglects himself; when little or no treat- ment is employed; and, more particularly, when the circum- stances that have excited inflammation still continue to act, although the more violent symptoms may be lessened, yet the state of inflammation continues for a long period before the natural condition is recovered. The part is still inflamed, the pain is less, however, and the interruption of the function is di- minished. This minor degree of inflammation is frequently called the chronic stage ; and the former period in which the symptoms have been more violent, is called the acute. Thus the words acute and chronic are employed to designate the different periods of one and the same inflammation. If in- flammation has been very actively treated, and judicious means employed to arrest its progress, the part recovers its natural state very quickly, and you can hardly say that any chronic stage occurs. Some persons have not only employed these terms to desig- nate one and the same inflammation, but they have contended, that these two periods are totally different kinds of disturbance; that the acute rs the result of increased action, and that the chronic is the result of debility, or weakness iu the part; and