ON THE NATURE AND SEAT OF DISEASES. 27 on the state of the secreting organs ; but we cannot help ob- serving that they must also depend, in part, on the nature of the matter on which the organ acts. When we see the various states of the urine, which we can trace to the variations in quantity, or kinds of food, we cannot help allowing, that the conditions of the fluids deserve consideration in estimating dis- ease. We cannot help admitting, that though the doctrines, which constituted the humoral pathology were absurd, and, most of them, unfounded, this forms no ground for excluding from our consideration altogether, the state of the fluids. The investigation of the fluids is difficult. Animal chemistry has been cultivated, however, much of late years, and certain in- genious facts have been brought to light; yet, generally speak- ing, we cannot derive much practical insight into disease, or the means of removing it from the state of the fluids. This, however is no reason why we should not expect, in prosecution of further inquiries of this kind, to derive considerable assist- ance from them. In conclusion, gentlemen, I may express to you my opinion, that if diseases were perfectly understood, we should be able, in each instance, to refer the altered functions to some change in an organ or organs ; sonsequently, the changes in the func- tions would merely constitute signs or symptoms of disease. I have already intimated to you, that the state of medical know- ledge is hitherto too imperfect for such a purpose. In many cases, and even in some of frequent occurrence, we are alto gether unable to distinguish the organ disturbed. Thus, for example, in common fevers, the profession are by no means agreed as to the particular organ, which is the primary seat of disease. In intermittent fevers, we are quite at a loss to assign the primary and essential seat of disease. Wbat name should we give to tetanus on this principle ? In internal diseases particularly, the changes of functions often cannot be referred to any assignable affection of any particular part. We are consequently, obliged to name such diseases after their external and visible signs; being sensible, at the same time, that the names so given are applied rather to symp- toms than to diseases. Diabetes, hsematuria, &c., are exam- ples. Dyspnoea, asthma, and indigestion, are analogous in- stances. If, in our present state of knosvledge, we use these terms, to denote diseases; we must bear in mind tliat they only represent symptoms, and we must investigate the condition of the organs which give rise to those symptoms, in the hope of determining the precise seat and nature of disease. All organs m the human body may be primarily affected; that is, they