PRIMARY' SORES. 325 racters which I have already had occasion to mention to you in speaking of phagedenic ulcerations; that is, the removal of a part by ulcerative absorption. The part has a sharp edge, is sometimes undermined, and the surface is irregular and ragged ; there is an eating away, as the term implies, of the textures of the part; there is no formation of granulations; there is nothing like an attempt at the reproductive process, and there is a thin, ichorous, and very offensive discharge from the sore. Sometimes you see this phagedenic process of ulceration ex- tending slowly upon the prepuce or glans, and gradually destroying those parts. At other times it goes on with much more rapidity ; the surface of the sore assumes a livid appear- ance; there is an ichorous discharge; and, without the occur- rence of sloughing, but simply by ulcerative absorption, it rapidly destroys the part in which it is situated. There is thus a kind of acute rapid phagedena, and a more chronic or stow kind of phagedenic ulceration. The fifth kind is that of sloughing, or gangrenous chancre, where there is a loss of vitality, and the surface of the sore assumes a dark, black, and manifestly a sloughing appearance. The surrounding parts are highly inflamed in this case; there is considerable redness, swelling, and acute pain ; there is also loss of vitality, the ulcerative surface of the part that has sloughed is separated, and a fresh slough forms over the part; thus the sore becomes rapidly larger, and it spreads in every direction, until the part is destroyed by that kind of process which I have described as constituting sloughing phagedena. Then when a part assumes, in this way, a gangrenous form, and when the ulcerative process extends under it, certain destruction of the part ensues, unless the process can be stopped. Considerable inflammation attends the progress of this process, affecting all the surrounding parts; thus, when it is seated on the glans, or in the prepuce, phimosis takes place ; the prepuce becomes inflamed and swelled, and cannot be retracted; then the progress of the sore is hidden from your view. The external surface has a bright-red and smooth appearance, and there is a copious discharge from the con- tracted orifice; there is a sanious, ichorous, extremely offensive discharge going on. This sloughing chancre is found to take place under two different circumstances. We very commonly see it as the result of neglect aud intemperance; in the case of sores that tnay not have been sloughy originally, and where per- sons, having primary syphilitic sores, take none of the precau- tions to get rid of them, but continue their occupations, and go on with with their iutemperate habits, causing a high degree of inflammation to be superinduced upon a complaint which