252 BITES OP VENOMOUS SERPENTS. The bite of a poisonous serpent produces considerable pain in the part that is bitten, and hence the part swells. This swelling' extends, supposing the bite to have taken place in an extremity, towards the trunk of the body. The part not only becomes swelled, but it becomes hard ; and if the patient—if the indi- vidual or the animal survive, it will turn livid, vesications will arise on its surface, mortification will ensue, and, in the further progress, the cellular texture of the limb which has been bitten will go into a state of inflammation and ulceration; and, in fact, it will assume nearly the state of a limb in which phlegmonous erysipelas is produced. At the same time that these local symptoms take place, very serious effects are pro- duced on the heart, the circulating and nervous systems, and the stomach; the pulse is oppressed, intermittent, and irregu- lar; fainting occurs; the patient is sick; and perhaps the stomach rejects every thing that is taken into it. Paralytic attacks are experienced; the patient or animal is unable to move the extremities, and becomes extremely feeble. The power of voluntary motion seems to be lost, vision is impaired, and the most serious effects are produced ; under these circum- stances, death generally ensues very rapidly. Treatment.—In the treatment of injuries of this kind, the first object, of course is, if the case have been seen at a suffi- ciently early period, to prevent the passage of the poison from the wounded part towards the centre of circulation. Hence it is of importance to apply a ligature between the situation of the wound and the heart; and if this be done very early, the occurrence of the symptoms 1 have just mentioned, will be pre- vented. It seldom, happens, however, that a case is seen at a sufficiently early period, to admit of this mode of treatment; and of course, if a ligature be applied, supposing the swelling to have already occurred in the limb, it will very likely aggra- vate the symptoms rather than relieve them. The application of a ligature, then, for the purpose of preventing the poison passing to the centre of circulation, and to that of the nervous system, can only be adopted with success at the earliest period after the injury has been inflicted. It has been found, by recent experiments, that if poison have been applied to a recent wound, and you apply a cupping glass, so as to produce exhaustion of the air, absorption is prevented ; therefore, if you have the opportunity of doing it, the application of a cupping-glass over the seat of the wound would be advantageous in cases of this kind. Supposing you had not the means of applying either of the remedies I have mentioned to you, that is, if you do not see the case sufficiently early, you would have recourse to what I have