19 LECTURE II. On the Nature and Seat of Diseases. It is the object of medicine to ascertain the nature and seat of diseases, in order to discover the proper modes of treating them. If we understood in each instance what or- gans are diseased, and how they are affected, there would be very little difficulty about the treatment. We should then be able to give an appropriate name to each disease, and to ar- range them according to their natural affinities 5 that is, we might establish a rational nosology, or arranged catalogue of diseases. Unfortunately, in a great many instances, we are unable to determine the nature of disease, and in not a few cases, we cannot even settle the exact seat of it. Hence you will not be surprised at finding, that the names of diseases are in many instances calculated to mislead, and that those cata- logues of diseases that are called nosologies, are often really worse than useless. The difficulties that I allude to are, how- ever, not experienced so much in that part of the subject which is the immediate object of our attention, viz. the sur- gical department; they are more felt in affections of the inter- nal organs, where the means of investigation are not so nume- rous, and where there is greater difficulty in all parts of the iuquiry, Most persons imagine that they understand very well the meaning of health and disease; yet it is not altogether easy to give a definition of those two states that is completely satis- factory. Health and disease have been said to be opposite states, and, under certain circumstances, we may admit this representation to be correct. For example, a person in a state of full health may be considered to be nearly in an opposite condition to a person in the last stage of a typhus fever. However, health and disease are not to be regarded simply as two states that can be thus contrasted ; for under each of these terms there is included a great variety of conditions, differing materially from each other. O11 the one side, the state ot health passes, by insensible gradations, into disease; and on the other, the state of disease is shaded off, if we may use the expression, into health ; so that- when we come to the point where the two conditions approach each other, we often find difficulty in determining what is health and what is disease. The human body is an aggregate of organs, each executing its own function, and all concurring in the general purposes ot C 2