207 LACERATIONS AND CONTUSIONS. plished by the process of granulation and cicatrisation, which I have already described to you, and which constitute the process technically called healing by the second intention. The surface of the wound, if the edges have not been brought to- gether (when, for instance, there has been a loss of substance, so that the edges cannot be approximated,) this surface assumes a dirty-whitish or yellowish appearance, having a dry aspect. Within a short time, this surface begins to suppurate; discharge takes place from the wound; granulations soon shoot up from the surface; they cover the wound, fill up the chasm that has been made, and then the part cicatrises, and goes through the process which I have already had occasion to describe to you, in speaking of ulceration. The changes which the wound undergoes have been noted by the older writers in surgery, and they have given them names which express the different periods of its progress, though they are different from those we employ at the present day. They said that every wound must go through the process of mundijication or cleaning; of digestion or discharge; of incarnation or granulation, (that is, the formation of new flesh); and cicatrisation or closing. These are the terms employed by the older writers, and they express, very suffi- ciently, tire stages a wound has to pass through, when it is healing by the second intention. Lacerations and Contusions.—In lacerated and contused wounds, the soft parts of the body are divided by tearing, and not by cutting ; and the surface of the wound very commonly is still further injured by being bruised. We find that the in- flammation excited by an injury of this kind, corresponds in degree with the extent of the injury that has been inflicted. Thus, when parts of the body are lacerated and bruised, a much higher degree of inflammation is produced than is occasioned by simple incision. The inflammation, under such circum- stances, goes beyond the point that is necessary for adhesion, or union by the first intention. Such wounds will not unite by adhesion; the inflammation is too considerable. The union and healing of such injuries take place by granulation or cica- trisation—that is, by the second intention. In fact, the degree of action excited in the part that has suffered this injury is often so considerable, that the surface of the wound perishes or sloughs. It is to no purpose that we bring together, with great accuracy, the sides of a wound of this description, for they will not unite if we do. It is well, however, slightly and gently to approximate them, and then to cover the wound over with a damp cloth, or a soft poultice, awaiting the process of granulation and cicatrisation. If the wound be of consider-