BLEEDING. 95 •where we should be contented with local bleeding; but I ra- uher fancy we should be hardly able to fix any such general (criterion. If the general constitutional disturbance exists -which constitutes inflammatory fever, we may safely bleed (.•generally ; but, then, we cannot say that if that is absent, we should, therefore, be content with bleeding locally. There are > many instances of local inflammation, which require the adop- i ion of active means to arrest them, but in which febrile dis- turbance of the system is not present. You may have an in- flammation of the eye which would require bleeding and the t most active antiphlogistic means, yet in which there shall be to fever. We may say, therefore, the existence of febrile dis- turbance justifies general bleeding, but that its absence does saot render it necessary that we should be coutented simply with local bleeding. Then supposing we deem it necessary to have recourse to :;eneral bleeding, what is the mode in which we should em- ploy this operation ? Are we to take a large quantity of blood, .nd to endeavour by such large bleeding, at once to put a stop iio the inflammatory action; or are we to take a small quan- »ty, and to repeat it ? There is a difference between a consi- derable, and free venesection, and taking repeated small quan- ities of blood. Now I may mention to you, that it is more onimon in this country to take a large quantity of blood at ■nee; but I believe it is more the practice in Italy, France, .nd Germauy, to take a small quantity, and to have recourse othe operation more frequently. I have no hesitation in stat- | ng to you that, in my opinion, the most advantageous plan, >ecause the most efficacious, is, that of taking such a quantity ■f blood at once, as will produce a decided effect on the state ■f the circulation at the moment; that is, you are to employ a <.arge bleeding as early as you can, and this is not to be mea- sured in its amount by any defined number of ounces. You annot say that a person is to lose twelve, sixteen, or twenty unces of blood, but the quantity must depend on the effect ■roduced on the system. You are to bleed till you can reduce he state of excitement which exists in the system, and you lust carry the depletion to the extent that is necessary for such Purpose. It may be necessary to take twenty, thirty, or forty junces of blood away; and if, without the patient fainting, mu cannot make a decided impression on the circulation, you lust go to that extent. It has often been said, you will reaken a patient very much, by taking away that quantity of lood ; certainly, your object is to weaken. You consider the atient at that time too strong ; that is, he has got too much food in him, or you would not be taking it from him. Your