SECONDARY SYMPTOMS. 341 the old svriters call ragades ctni; that is, a cracked, ragged, and ulcerated condition of the parts about the anus. The skin at the roots of the toes, and the skin ou the surface of the toes opposite to each other, often go into a state of foul ulceration, with elevated surfaces, and a copious, thin, and very offensive discharge takes place from them: that form of ulceration has been called ragades digitarum, chaps of the toes. The parts which are the seat of primary syphilitic sores, more especially in females, often produce warty excrescences, which some- times have an extensive surface, and they are called condyto- mato. These are, perhaps, hardly to be regarded as syphilitic; occasionally they are the result of irritation in the skin, in consequence of syphilitic disease affecting the neighbouring parts. In conjunction with these affections of the skin, we not un- frequently have inflammation of the iris taking place; and that is a form of disease which may occur in conjunction with various forms of syphilitic eruptions—we may have it either with the pustular, or with the scaly syphilitic eruption. Then, either together with the affections of the skin, or shortly after them, or independently of them, it is not uncommon to have various ulcerated affections of the fauces, or mucous membrane covering the neighbouring parts—sore throat. lu the first place, there is a fortn of ulceration principally observed in the tonsils, in which there is a deep ulcerated excavatiou taking place in those parts; a destruction of the substance, without any attempt at reparation ; a loss of substance as if a part had been scooped out, the surface exhibiting a tawny appearance, as if covered with a stratum of thick yellow matter ; these have been called by foreign writers, lardacious ulcerations, as if they had been covered by a stratum of lard. These are principally observed in the tonsiU; but you may observe the same kind of affection running along the outside of the palate—along the edge of the uvula. And you will find that this ulceration will occur with very little apparent disturbance of the mucous membrane generally, hardly any thing like inflammation about it; nor is there any thickening or considerable pain observed : sometimes it is found to have proceeded to a considerable extent before the patient is aware of its existence. It has been chronic, without any great disturbance. Frequently, however, there is a much more active disturbance of the mucous membrane of the throat, which becomes red and swelled, secreting more mucus than usual; a good deal of discharge filling the throat, and a superficial ulceration with white patches, superficial spots extending over the velum paleti, or superficial ulceration of the tonsils. Again, the