VENEREAL DISEASE. 297 few instances tliat such obstinate relapses take place, and the instances are extremely few indeed, in which the dise:ise proves fatal in this way. Treatment.—With respect to the treatment of syphilis, con- sidered generally, I have already mentioned to you the common notion of mercury being the only means by which it was sup- pposed possible to control or arrest the progress of the disease; and this opinion was very generally held in the profession, from the time I have mentioned to you as being the supposed .period of the origin of syphilis, to within the last few years. It should be observed, however, that when we come to inquire minutely into the matter historically, we fiud that there were jalways some persons who had doubts on the subject; that this opinion, although so general as to have swayed the profession, was not absolutely universal. It was found that mercury itself, in many instances, produced prejudicial effects ; that, in rrnauy cases, diseases supposed to have been cured by mercury came on again, and thus the remedy appeared to be imperfect. Hence surgeons, at all periods, since the disease has been well ‘known, have turned their attention to the discovery of other means by which the disease might be more effectually con- trolled. Thus, from time to time, various other articles have l>een introduced as remedies, and cases have been published, in which those articles, various as they are in their nature, are said to have produced the desired effect of curing the disease. Now, according to that prevalent notion of mercury being the only cure for the disease, it was said of cures slated to have been performed by the use of sarsaparilla, opium, and nitric acid, that those patients got well, because it was not the vene- real disease. We cau have no doubt that those cases which are said to have been cured in this way, were just as truly syphilitic cases as others; that those cases which were supposed to have been inaccurately reported, and said not to be venereal, were really syphilitic, and were cured by those means. The clearest evidence, however, on the subject respecting this point, that mercury is not necessary to the cure of the disease, has ! been offered principally by the investigations of the late Mr. i Rose, a surgeon of St. George’s Hospital. Having frequent occasion to treat venereal disease, in consequence of being surgeon to one of the regiments of guards, and happening to turn his attention to it, he found a great difficulty in coming to any clear notion as to the fact of this dogma respecting mercury ' being absolutely necessary to arrest the progress of, and to cure the disease. Having conceived some doubts, he determined to put the point to the test. He had the charge of the Coldstream 1 Regimeut of Guards, and he determined to try the point in that