PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF FEVER. 123 out a day or two, so that you do not see it under very ad- vantageous circumstances, but still you will find numerous bloody points throughout; the clearest marks of strong vascular ►.excitement. In these cases the antiphlogistic treatment is necessary in . the commencement of the affection, while there are distinct and clear evidences of congestion in the head, and symptoms of .debility, which have not yet come on. With a view to pre- vent the occurrence of that subsequent stage—with a view to .avert what may be called typhoid symptoms, a treatment of ► some activity that will remove the inflammatory disturbance of the brain in the outset is of great consequence. If the .commencement of such cases be treated with such activity, ttbose alarming symptoms of debility will not take place at all. ’Venesection may be necessary, as well as the local loss of blood from the head, by cupping or leeches, aud in those cases where disturbance in the head is strongly marked, the local application of cold is very important. I mentioned this slightly in the last lecture. It is in such cases that the head should be shaved, '.that you should apply cloths out of cold water, or ice water, and that you should place on the head a bladder three parts .filled with spring water, or with ice, frequently changing and renewing it. There is another mode of applying cold to the head, which Dr. Tweddie has been frequently in the habit of : resorting to, that of pouring jugsful of cold water from some height upon the head. Let the head be hung over the bed, .have a pailful of cold water and la common ewer, and pour several jugsful over the head from as high as the patient can bear it. It has a very marked effect in diminishing heat, and frequently does so, when medicine and depletion do not seem to control the symptoms. You frequently find the feeling of heat and disturbance much lessened by it, and the patient will often, after it has been done, fall asleep and break out into a sweat. In the protracted stages of this affection, it is important to consider when, and in what way, we might be justified in the employment of cordials or tonics. The muscular debility which often takes place in those cases at an early period, and which is an evidence, not of general weakness of the frame, but of that oppressed state of the brain, which diminishes the voluntary power over the muscles : this muscular debility has frequently led to the employment of tonics, stimuli, and wine, even in comparatively an early period of it; and no douht, the inju- dicious use of such means has very frequently tended to aggra- vate tire disease, and to bring on serious typhoid symptoms. There are instances, however, in which the patient is reduced