350 VENEREAL DISEASE; not require this very free administration of it, we may give a dose of Dover’s powder—ten, twelve, or fifteen grains at bed-time, or a few grains of the pil. sap. cum. op. at night, and, if necessary, a few times in the course of the day. In con- junction with this, %ve may find advantage from the employ- ment of sarsaparilla. If sarsaparilla possess any virtue, I think it must be beneficial in cases of phagedenic venereal disease. These are the cases in which the general powers are consider- ably depressed, and it is in such cases that we find the efficacy of sarsaparilla most clearly exhibited. Although mercury em- ployed internally is prejudicial in the phagedenic form of the disease, the same objection does not, in my opinion, exist with respect to the employment of it locally ; and, in fact, I do not know any form of the’affection in which the treatment by mercury locally, in various forms, is not advantageous. The black wash, the yellow wash, and, perhaps, more particularly, the cinnabar fumigation, may be used; the latter is a very eligible form of the remedy in many instances of obstinate and serious ulceration of the fauces, where you cannot apply mer- cury in any other form. In the intractable phagedenic ulcera- tion of the skin, which is so common, the yellow wash is a very advantageous application. Now it has happened to me, some- times, to see the cinnabar fumigation applied to the throat, simply with a view to the local influence of the remedy ou the ulcer there, produce ulceration in a very powerful degree. In many instances where I have seen this, 1 have found that the local disease in the throat, and sometimes that the local disease in other parts, has proceeded vc-ry favourably. So that I would not lay it down that mercury is absolutely, in no instance, to be employed as it regards its general effect on the system in those cases ; indeed, those cases are so obstinate and intractable, that sometimes we find we do not succeed by the remedies we consider, from general experience, the most suit- able, and we are obliged to resort to others. Gentlemen who have acquired very great reputation in the practice of their profession, I have seen repeatedly go upon the rule in con- sultation, that where a person had taken a great deal of mer- cury, and had not been benefited by it, they have changed the remedy, and said, You must not go on with it, but use sarsa- parilla and other medicines ; and, on the contrary, where those other medicines have been used without advantage, they have said You must discontinue them, and have recourse to the employment of mercury ; and really we are obliged to do so in some of these cases. We must use mercury internally in some of the phagedenic cases; but, in doing so, we must use it very cautiously at first, we must give it in very small doses; but I