138 ON SUPPURATION AND to avoid injuring any blood vessel, or other important part. It is necessary, too, in these places, where the matter lies deeply, to make a free opening, because in so doing you cut through parts that are in a healthy state, and if the sides of the opening you make were to remain in contact they would speedily close, and the How of the matter would be prevented ; you must, therefore, make a freer opening here than when the matter has approached nearer the skin. You must not only make such free opening, but in order to prevent the sides from adhesion, you must put something between the edges of the wound, to prevent their union by adhesion, allowing it to remain forfour- and-twenty or eigbt-and-forty hours. Matter must be evacuated as early as possible, when it forms in any parts that are of a dense or unyielding structure, such as when it takes place in the theca of the flexor tendons of the fingers, and more particularly if the parts, besides being dense and unyielding, possess a considerable quantity of blood vessels and nerves in the neighbourhood, because the process of sup- puratiou occurring in parts thus organized, is attended with ex- cessive pain. This applies to all the formations of matter that take place about the lingers. The pain accompanying such formation of matter is of the most severe kind, and you cannot too speedily relieve the patient from his sufferings. Moreover, as there is very little disposition in the matter to come to the surface, it is very likely to extend along the theca to the ten- dons and into the palm, and thus give rise to very considerable mischief. In all these cases, then, make an opening, even though you should not be absolutely certain that the matter has formed. There can be no risk, if you have any knowledge of anatomy, of wounding any particularly important part; the worst is, that you make a puncture in tire skin without ac- tually discharging the matter. When matter is seated in the neighbourhood of any of the great cavities of the body or large joints, it is expedient to open the abscess early; not that there is any great fear of the matter penetrating into those cavities, but it does so occasionally: and it has sometimes happened, that matter forming in the parietes of the abdomen or chest, has found its way into the chest or abdomen, and destroyed the patient. An opinion formerly existed, that where matter formed, it had the power of corroding or eating its way into the cavities. I need not say* that this is quite an erroneous notion. I need not say, there is no ground for ascribing any quality of this kind to collections of matter. The resistance to the discharge of matter in a part, produces the injurious consequences. Matter does not corrode, or chemically act on any part; and