VENEREAL DISEASE; 336 We generally find the suppuration is not in the glands them- selves, but in the cellular substance surrounding them, so that, when we open the bubo, if the opening be considerable, we see the glands exposed, nearly as much as if they had been dis- sected. If the sore, which is connected with bubo, requires the employment of mercury, and if the bubo itself be of indo- lent and indurated kind, rather than of the active inflammatory description, it will generally be advisable to employ mercury in the form of friction ; and this form of using it has generally been considered to have been particularly advantageous; it has been supposed, that the passage of the mercury through the diseased glands, has an advantageous effect iu dispersing the bubo; whether this be the case, perhaps, is rather doubtful. Such, however, is the opinion of Mr. Hunter, and he speaks very strongly of the advantages that are derived in the disper- sion of buboes from the employment of mercury in this way. Indeed he says that, for a considerable portion of his life, having been in the habit of using mercury very extensively in this manner, he has never seen any bubo proceed to any extent under that treatment; that he has checked the progress of it, so as to prevent suppuration occurring. If the bubo ha6 either been opened or has ulcerated, and if the sore that has been produced is going on favourably, has a healthy aspect, and if the primary syphilitic ulcer should have healed, it is not neces- sary to persist in the employment of mercury on account of the bubo ; we may then leave the mercury off, and use simple common measures of treatment. It frequently happens, in persons of scrofulous constitutions, or of those who are otherwise of a weak habit of body, that the ulceration of bubo extends—becomes very considerable; that sinuses formed by suppuration, occur in the loose cellular membrane about the bend of the thigh, and sometimes very formidable local affections are the result. Under such circum- stances, I need not observe to you, that perseverance in the use of mercury would be most prejudicial—that it would aggravate all the symptoms. In such cases, we should give the patient the advantage of country air, change of air, the sea air, good diet, tonic medicines, and not think of persevering in the use of mercuiy. When the integument covering a bubo has been considerably thinned before it has been opened, it often hap- pens that the edges of the bubo are undermined in the ulcera- tive stage, that the margin is left in an unhealthy state, and that cicatrization does not take place in consequence. Here trie progress of the cure has been much accelerated, by paring off with a strong sharp pair of scissors the undermined edge or skin of the bubo; ufter doing this, you will find the cicatriza-