198 MECHANICAL INJURIES, WOUNDS, ETC. the lost nose, so as to reduce the edges to the state of a new- wound ; he then raised a portion of the integument, calculated to restore the part, from the arm or fore-arm ; raised the arm or fore-arm up to the nose and joined the parts. He sewed on the piece of skin, which he had not detached, but only raised from the arm, and kept the arm bound up in this situation as Jong as was necessary for maintaining the circulation in the supplemental nose, and the adhering of the skin to the nose. Then the portion remaining adherent to the nose was separated from the arm, and the portion of skin that had originally be- longed to the arm remained and formed the new nose. He in this way restored noses, and be in like manner restored lips and ears, according to his own account. Although ridicule has been cast upon the Talliacotian art, as it has been called, there seems no reason whatever fordoubt- ing the fact, that such things were done; indeed from what we see we can have no reasonable ground for doubting that a por- tion of integument might thus be raised from the arm or fore- arm, that it might be applied, in the way described, to the cica- trix of a lost nose, become adherent there, and fill up that very unsightly chasm which the loss of this member produces. We cannot, however, believe the whole that Talliacotius has said, for I think he says, that these new noses smelt more acutely than the ordinary ones, and that they sometimes became so elongated as to require removal. Another mode of restoring the nose has been imported into this country from India, where it was not an uncotnmon prac- tice to mutilate captives by cutting off their noses and ears ; and this, according to their religion, is, a very serious affair. In this mode of operation the integument is raised from the forehead ; it is of a triangular shape; it is reversed, the ba- sis being turned upwards; it is detached every where but at the apex of the triangle $ the cicatrix of the lost nose is pared, as in the other instance; then the triangular piece is turned round, that is, the apex by which it still remains adherent to the forehead is twisted, and the edges of the integument thus brought down are fixed by sutures to the remains of the old nose. This is a mode which has been recently practised. A book has been published by Mr. Carpue upon it, and some new noses have been made at this hospital in this way—one or two; indeed to me the process is a very feasible one. These operations show you the extent of the chance of union that ex- ists between the edges of recent wounds; they show that this process is not only found to agglutinate—to unite the edges of a cut in every part, but that it will also form an union between two recent surfaces of a wound, in which one is extraneous to the part in which the wound has been inflicted.