210 PUNCTURRD WOUNDS is a common ingredient employed in any application, when the object is to assist the absorption of diffused blood. Stimu- lating applications, those that contain ammonia, and the various stimulating liniments, are supposed to have the power of assist- ing in this process. When the blood is effused into one mass in a limb, for example, and if the limb be kept perfectly quiet, the effusion may, in like manner, be removed by the absorbents; but it happens, not uncommonly, that the effusion of blood in that way excites inflammation in the part into which it is effused; then formation of matter will take place, and, in fact, the symptoms in the part will be very much like those attendant on an abscess. You may make an opening, however, and find, perhaps, that instead of letting out a quantity of matter, you merely evacuate a large coagulum of blood. Where there is a large quantity of loose cellular membrane in a part, this kind of process is likely to take place : such as in the scrotum in the male, and labium pudendi in the female. Instances occur, sometimes, in the latter case, particularly where enormous swelling will take place from the bursting of a vessel, and the effusion of blood into one mass. When this takes place, when pain and heat come on in the part, you must make an opening and evacuate the effused blood, and apply cold afterwards; the cavity will contract, and the case will do very well. Punctured wounds.—Punctured wounds are those which are inflicted by instruments that are pointed and narrow in their shape, so that they enter the part readily, and penetrate easily to a considerable depth. In fact, the depth of such wounds is uncertain. You cannot well tell how far a sharp pointed in- strument has passed into the substance of the limb or the body. The danger, therefore, of such a wound is by no means accord- ing to its external appearance. You may have a very small external opening through the integuments, and yet the instru- ment may have gone very deep into the limb, and injured a part below of considerable importance. As these wounds do not, in the first instance, put on a for- midable appearance, patients continue to use the limb; they go on with their ordinary exertions, and they bring on inflam- mation of the part. When inflammation is brought on in con- sequence of a wound of this kind, it effects the deep-seated tex- tures of the limb; hence the limb generally swells and be- comes hard, the inflamed parts being confined and bound down by the fascia which covers them. The appearance, then, which the limb exhibits, is often ascribed to inflammation or injury of the fascia. When there is considerable swelling, and the