211 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. part is rendered very tense and hard, people say, “ Oh, the fascia is inflamed.” Now the truth is, fascia is one of those textures which are very little liable to inflammation. Inflam- mation of fascia is very seldom to be found ; and inflammatioss occurring in parts after punctures, are not to be ascribed to the fascia, but to their happening in deeper textures of the limb, and to the circumstance of those textures being confined and bound down by the fascia. It is necessary, therefore, in the treatment of a wound of this kind, to adopt those means, in the first place, which are calculated to obviate inflammation of deep-seated parts. Although you may not know the extent to which the puncture has gone, you should treat the case as if it were one in which considerable inflammation is likely to arise, and thus you will prevent its occurrence ; for if a case of that kind is neglected, the local inflammation often becomes very considerable. Gun-shot IVounds.—Gun-shot wounds have very commonly been considered as altogether different from wounds of other kinds, as being very peculiar in their nature. The injury which is inflicted by wounds of this nature, is very consider- able. The inflammation which they produce in the part is violent; their consequences altogether are very serious. Hence, when fire-arms were first introduced, the effects of these wounds were found so much more serious than those which were ordinarily occasioned by the weapons which were previously employed, that it was supposed gun-shot wounds were of a poisonous nature. It was suggested that the gunpowder, or the heat of the ball in some measure affected the wound, and thus that some highly deleterious effect was produced in the injured part. Attempts were therefore made to counteract this deleterious influence by such applications as were supposed to be capable of counteracting heat; the application of turpentine, hot oils, and similar hot and stimulating remedies, were re- sorted to for this purpose. Writers of modern times, particularly the military surgeons of Europe, have had ample opportunities of observing gun-shot wounds, and of investigating their nature ; so that this part of the suhject, and the particular rules applicable to it, are now very well understood. The only peculiarities in gun-shot wounds, arise from the nature of the objects by which the wounds are inflicted, and the degree of force with which they strike the textures of the human body. Balls, bullets, frag- ments of shells, splinters of stone and wood, and various hard substances of these kinds, are the objects by which the wounds are made, and they are driven with great force against the body; they produce lacerated and contused wounds of the P 2