200 MECHANICAL INJURIES, WOUNDS, ETC. the purpose. You do not want to employ more than will sim- ply approximate and maintain in contact the edges of the wound, and you must do this gently. It is not necessary that you should cover over the whole surface of the wound ; and it is by no means advisable, supposing a wound has taken place with considerable loss of substance, that you should forcibly draw the parts together, for whenever there has been a consider- able loss of substance, you will find that the parts will not re- main in the situation into which you forcibly bring them, and that you only excite inflammation by thus forcing them. You will recollect that the substances of which adhesive plasters consist are, more or less, of an irritating kind; and, therefore, if those plasters be applied on a surface, even in a healthy state, they will occasion more or less uneasiness, consequently you will only employ just enough to accomplish your purpose. You will recollect, that more or less swelling is likely to take place after the application of these strips, so that if you apply them tightly, they will act more or less as ligatures over the wound, and they thus produce a degree of pressure that aggra- vates the inflammation. I have seen, sometimes, very serious injury produced, by forcibly dragging together the edges of a wound, where considerable loss of substance had taken place, and by applying the strips of plaster in such a way as to act like ligatures when the parts began to swell. Not long ago, I had occasion to assist in the operation of removing a female’s breast. A considerable portion was taken away, very broad strips of plaster were applied, and the parts drawn together as tightly as they could be. In about eight-and-forty hours after the operation, I was sent for, in a great hurry, to see the pa- tient. She had summoned the gentleman who had performed the operation, but he not being in the way, I was sent for, and I went. When I arrived, 1 found that she had passed a night without the least rest, and that she felt as if she had a great weight pressing upon her chest. On opening the part, I saw that wherever the strips of plaster were not actually in contact, the swelled and red skin rose up between them, in consequence of the degree of pressure which the strips of plaster produced. 1 took them off, and the skin all around the wound was red aDd inflamed. The lady then told me that she felt as if a hundred weight had been removed from her chest. In consequence of this, the injury did not go further; but if the strips of plaster had been left on for four-and-twenty hours longer, they would have been found to have produced an attack of erysipelas. It very often happens that, in consequence of these straps being left on too tightly, erysipelas takes place, and then people say— “ Dear me, what a strange thing it is, that erysipelas should have come on!”