3 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. removing disease. The practica I application of these rules con- stitutes the art of healing, or, rather, of treating disease (for in many cases we are unable to heal, and do not even attempt it); while the assemblage of facts and reasonings on which these practical proceedings are grounded, makes up the science of medicine. The boundaries of surgery have not hitherto been, and per- haps cannot be, very clearly defined ; and the line of demarca- tion between it and physic is by no means easily traced. Considering the distinction between them to be a mere matter of arbitrary usage, I employ the word surgery in its common acceptation ; understanding it to include—1st, injuries of all kinds; 2d, the greater part of external and local complaints; 3dly, such internal affections as produce changes recognisable externally,—for example, alterations of figure, colour, or con- sistence; 4thly, all cases requiring external topical treatment, operations, or manual proceedings of any kind. The subjects 1 have just enumerated form the catalogue which is treated of in the surgical writings of Mr. Samuel Cooper. It is of the same kind of subjects that Boyer and Delpech treat, when speaking of external diseases. The title adopted by the latter, uTraite des Maladies reputees Chirurgicales(treatise on the diseases reputed or considered surgical,) shows that the distinc- tion is not better understood in France than in this country. It must be confessed that the boundary just indicated, is obscure and uncertain. Hence, as in the case of contiguous governments with undefined possessions, disputes have arisen respecting the right to certain portions of territory'. Injuries, operatious, external local complaints, and manual proceedings, are undisputed possessions of surgery; but it is not easy to distinguish between external and iuternal diseases; here, in fact, surgery and physic join. Since it is found thus difficult to draw a satisfactory line of demarcation between physic and surgery, you will not be surprised to find, in a great majority of instances, that both are practised together in this country by one description of persons—surgeon-apothecaries. Nineteen- twentieths of diseases are under the care of this class of persons in the country, who are therefore styled general practitioners. On the other hand, in the metropolis, we find that these two branches of the profession are exercised by a different class of persons, whose education differs widely in some important points. They are taught by distinct teachers, in separate courses of instruction ; and their regulation is entrusted by law to two distinct public bodies,—the Colleges of Physicians and Surgeons. Viewing these apparent contradictions, we are na- turally led to inquire more narrowly in what the distinction n 2