INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. 11 la considering the subject historically, we cannot deny that surgery consisted, originally, of this limited, mechanical, and subordinate department, which was exercised under the direc- tion, and by the permission of physicians ; but surgeons have long emancipated themselves from this degrading bondage, and will surely never again submit to such ignominious trammels. They have cultivated, with ardour and success, the scientific foundations of their art- They can adduce the rapid progress of surgery since the middle of the last century, and its present undiminished rate of progression, in proof that their claims on the confidence of the public are not inferior to those of any other branch of the medical profession. They can point out, in their modern annals, the names of many who have been the largest contributors to the advancement of medical science. Among these may be mentioned that of Mr. Pott, so long a surgeon of this hospital. He was an able practitioner, a clear and elegant writer; and has been regarded, both abroad and in his own country, as one of the great modern improvers of surgery. He, however, is thrown into the shade by the tran- scendant merits aud more brilliant reputation of his cotempo- rary and rival, John Hunter, the greatest man iu the medical profession, either of ancient or modern days, without excepting even the immortal discoverer of the circulation. In contem- plating this extraordinary character, we are at a loss to deter- mine whether he surpassed others most in genius or industry. The searching glance which he directed into the construction and actions of all living beings, the novelty of his views, and the splendour of his discoveries, strike us with astonishment; but we can hardly believe it possible that the invaluable trea- sures of bis museum could have been formed and collected by one person. To these great names we may add that of a kindred spirit, who entered with ardour on the path they had pointed out, and followed it into new regions of speculative and practical knowledge ; I mean the founder of this school, Mr. Abernethy. Fellow-labourers in the same cause have not been wanting in France, Germany, and Italy. It will be suffi- cient to enumerate Jean Louis Petit, and the other members of the French Academy of Surgery; Desault, Richter, Bichat, and Scarpa. The two latter have been among the greatest con- tributors to the progress of anatomy and physiology since the time of Hunter. The attempt, however, to reduce surgery to its ancient limits—to the art of plasters, bandages, bleeding, and tooth- drawing, which constituted nearly its whole encyclopaedia in the venerable times of barber-surgery, comes too late by a cen- tury or two. If it could succeed, it would be equally detri-