t32 SCALDS. produced, just in the same way as in mortification occurring tinder other circumstances. Hums.—Heat applied to the body in other forms completely decomposes the parts to which it is applied ; reduces it to a dry, brown, charred substance, which becomes corrugated, i.hrivelled, or curled up, as far as the other living parts will admit of it. The important points for consideration, therefore, are, the degree and extent of injury in those cases,—the degree if injury, that is, the degree of heat that is applied to the tex- ures of the body ; and the extent, that is, the quantity of sur- ace which is involved in the mortification. The prognosis, lowever, turns chiefly on the extent of the injury ; for a slight degree of injury, if it occupy a large surface of the body, will produce very serious effects, while the highest degree of injury, if it be- confined to a small point, is of no very great conse- quence. The nature of the inflammatory process, that is, the inflammation itself, the suppuration, the ulceration, and the granulations which are their consequences, and the mode of managing or treating them, are just the same, in point of prin- ciple, as in inflammation produced in any other way. I should mention to you, with reference to the decomposition, the shrivelling up of the part of the body to which the heat has been applied, that the portion that is thus deprived of life is generally called an eschar, from the Greek, eschara. Eschara, in Greek, means that part of an altar on which sacrifice has been offered, and which, in consequence, has become charred and discoloured. Hence a portion of the body charred and dis- coloured has been called an eschar. The word slough denotes a portion of the body which has lost its vitality in consequence of that change which is termed gangrena, mortification, a loss of part of the body consequent on the want of a peculiar vitality. Eschar is the loss of vitality in a part of tire body, in consequence of the application of heat, or some other chemical application. That is the proper distinction between the two terms, although, sometimes, they are used indiscriminately. Now, when a considerable degree of heat is applied to a large surface of the body, the disturbance immediately excited is fatal within a short period of time. If you consider hoy serious a degree of local uneasiness, and how much febrile dis- turbance, are often produced, even by a boil, that is, an inflam- mation coming to a small point in the skin, you will not be at ail surprised to find, that patients should die very quickly, if nearly the whole of the skin be seriously burnt. In cases where the injury is less considerable in point of extent, violent sympathetic disturbance of the respiratory organs and of the stomach is produced; breathing is carried on very imperfectly j