49 INFLAMMATION. We find, in the first place, that the vascular system is sympa- thetically disturbed, that the action of the heart is affected, the pulse is full, strong, and frequent; the nervous system is af- fected ; there is pain of the head, back, and limbs ; restlessness, want of sleep, and, in some cases, even delirium at night; the digestive organs are obviously and considerably disturbed ; the tongue is white; there is>thirst, costiveness, want of appetite, and sometimes even nausea and sickness; the various secre- tions are suspended, or, at least, much diminished in quantity ; the skin is hot and dry; the mouth is parched; the urine is scanty, high-coloured, and turbid, and, in all probability, the secretions from the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal, generally are, in a great measure, diminished. These various circumstances, taken together, constitute the state of sympathetic inflammatory fever; that is, febrile dis- turbance, produced by local affections. The sympathetic dis- order gradually declines, in proportion as the original local mischief becomes lessened. When this takes place, the secre- tions Miat have been previously suspended are restored; the cir- culation, which is relieved by these natural outlets, becomes tranquil; the nervous system is soothed, and appetite returns. Such are the several phenomena, local and general, of a well-marked attack of inflammation, and you see there is a correspondence of character between the two. We next come to inquire how the changes I have mentioned to you in the part affected, can be explained. It is very appa- rent, from the circumstances I have gone over, that there is an increased quantity of blood sent to the inflamed part, and that there is a gtenter quantity than natural circulating through it. The increased action, or throbbing, of the large arteries, the visible distention of the great venous trunks, the fulness of the small vessels, which is shown by general redness of the part, and the general redness which we find throughout the tissues of the inflamed spot on examination after death, satisfactorily prove, that there is an increased quantity of blood sent to the part. On dissection, all the textures of the inflamed member are found preternaturally red; they seem to contain a greater quantity of blood-vessels, and these appear to be of greater size than natural. This is corroborated by an experiment made by Mr. Hunter on the ear of a rabbit. He produced in- flammation in one ear; after it was fully developed, he killed the animal, injecting the head, and clearly found that the ves- sels of the inflamed ear were much larger and more numerous than those of the sound ear. He has given, in his work, called “ Hunter on Inflammation and the Blood,” a drawing of the two ears, in which this is very apparent.