254 WOUNDS RECEIVED IN DISSECTION. begin by using the solution in a larger quantity than about five or seven drops to a dose. A case of the bite of a rattle-snake occurred in this country some years ago. A person, who took care of some animals that were carried about for exhibition, was bitten in one or two places by a rattle-snake, which formed part of the exhibition ; this individual was taken to St. George's Hospital. His case is related by Sir Everard Home, in a paper in the Philosophical Transactions, I think in about the year 1S11. But, according to the result, it would seem that the bite of this animal, was not so venomous as we have been accustomed to suppose it to be; for I think the man lived fourteen or sixteen days after he had received the injury, and, indeed, recovered from its immediate effect, though he died from general inflammation and sloughing of the cellular membrane of the arm, the effect of what might be called phlegmonous erysipelas of the extremity. Now, in this country, we have not much opportunity of observing the bites of venomous serpents in a dangerous shape, or of putting into practice any of the remedies that have been recommended. The only venomous serpent here, as I have already mentioned, is the viper, and the venomous power of that reptile is so feeble as not, in general, to endanger the life of the human subject. Small animals may be killed by a viper, but its bite does not usually kill a dog; it requires, according to the experiments of Foster, three or four viper-bites to kill a dog, yet I must observe to you, that the swelling of the part, and the disturbance of the nervous, the digestive, and the circulating systems, are very serious in the human subject after the bite of a viper, and, in many instances, when it has taken place in the young subject, it has proved fatal. Wounds received in Dissection.—Under the division of poi- soned wounds, in the syllabus drawn up for this course of lectures, 1 have attached a query, a note of interrogation, to the subject of “ injuries received in dissection ?” and I have done so in order to express the doubt which I feel in my own mind, whether injuries of this kind—or rather the effects of such in- juries—are owing to the introduction into the human form of a poison or not. It seems to be very doubtful in those cases, whether any thing actually venomous or virulent is introduced, or, whether the results of these injuries must be said to arise from such wounds, considered merely as mechanical wouuds. Jf these be poisonous wounds, the poison certainly follows other laws than those we observe in cases in which we are more intimately acquainted with the poison. If we look at small- pox, cow-pox, scarlet fever, or syphilis, we see that the appli- 'cation of the poison produces pretty surely certain effects, and