VENEREAL DISEASE; 322 have known the interval between coition and the appearance of the symptoms to be as much as four or even five weeks. Mr. Hunter states that he has known a syphilitic sore to commence in twenty-four hours after coition, and that he has known it to be delayed as long as seven weeks ; be mentions one instance in which the interval was two months. Where the poison is applied to broken surfaces, as in the cases I have mentioned, the symptoms come on very much more rapidly. In those cases a very painful state of the wound was experienced in a few hours after the poison had been applied; and, certainly within twenty-four hours, decided appearance of syphilitic sores was manifest. The syphilitic sore shows itself at first in the form of a pimple, or miuute vesicle or pustule, that ulcerates and spreads by the ulcerative process. Generally speaking, the process of ulceration in a syphilitic sore is not very rapid; it is rather a chronic kind of ulceration, though there is considerable difference in the various kinds of sores which belong to this dis- ease. Usually speaking, the syphilitic sore is of a circular figure, but not necessarily so. The sores which are produced by the application of venereal poison to the external organs of generation are various in their appearance. We cannot de- scribe one particular character of sore as the result of venereal poison. We find that there are several, all of them seeming to be equally produced by that cause, and yet differing materially from each other in their characters. In the first place, the sim- ple venereal sore, which has been called by Mr. Evans, in his work to which I have before referred, venerea vulgaris—com- mon venereal ulcerative sore, is a superficial ulceration, takiiig place, very commonly, on the internal surface of the prepuce. Usually there is more than one; you have generally a sore upon the corona glandis; frequently two, three, or four of them in that situation, just behind the prepuce; or such a number may form around the orifice of the prepuce itself. In the first place there is a degree of excoriation from ulcerative absorption; after a certain time, the excoriation thus produced is filled up, so that the sore becomes again level with the rest of the surface. The continuation of the reproductive process goes on and pro- duces an excess of substance in that particular part, so that it projects above the surrounding surface, and then the part cica- trises. These are the stages this sore goes through, and it will often occupy four, five, or six weeks in proceeding through the different stages. It is also very painfuf, and, commonly, the surface bleeds when the dressings are changed and the part is exposed. Venereal sores frequently occur on the fiaenum of the prepuce; indeed there is a kind of fold of the prepuce upon the glans, in which matter may easily lodge, so that we are not