238 HYDROPHOBIA. ease, which is also called rabies, or rabies canina—canine mad- ness. It is a disease produced in the human frame by the in- troduction of a poison through the medium of the bite of an animal affected with the same disease. This poison is intro- duced with the saliva; that is, the saliva of an animal labour- ing under hydrophobia, or rabies, acquires that peculiar, poi- sonous property which renders it capable of exciting similar disease in other animals. No solid part of the body possesses the property of communicating this poison, nor does any other fluid than the saliva—the secretion of the salivary glands. It has sometimes been vaguely supposed, that the perspiration and the breath of an animal labouring under hydrophobia, were capable of affecting other animals or individuals ; but this is a mistaken idea. Dupuytren had an opportunity of ascertaining whether the blood of an animal labouring under hydrophobia was at all affected, or, at least, whether it possessed the virulent property which the saliva does. He took the blood of a patient affected with rabies, and applied it to a recent wound made on a dog, without this animal becoming affected ; and he applied the blood of a dog, labouring under hydrophobia, to the recent wound of another; he even injected the blood of a rabid dog into an healthy dog, and he found that no effect was produced through the medium of this fluid. In this respect the disease is communicated like the small-pox; but hydrophobia cannot be communicated, like the small-pox, through the atmosphere. It requires the saliva of a living animal, labouring under the disease, to be applied through a wound; that is the only way in which it can be conveyed. Now it has been inquired, and you, also, will very naturally ask, whether hydrophobia ever arises spontaneously, either in animals, or in man. It is difficult to answer this question in the case of animals; because, when symptoms of the disease show themselves, we cannot tell what circumstances may have occurred to the animal previously. We can hardly arrive, therefore, at a clear negative proof on the subject. I may ob- serve, however, that as far as our knowledge goes, we are not aware of its ever arising spontaneously. In fact, we are not aware of its being produced by internal causes, nor any exter- nal influence, except through the application of saliva in the way that I have mentioned. Gentlemen who have kept large sets of dogs, have succeeded in keeping this disease from their kennels, by making every dog perform a quarantine, before he is allowed to join the pack. In some isolated places, where cases of hydrophobia have previously been very numerous, a series of years has passed