]‘i2 ON SUPPURATION AND does not form in the particular situation I have now mentioned, and where no coagulum of blood is mixed with the matter to account for the circumstance. I remember an instance of a boy in this hospital, who came in with considerable inflamma- tion in the parietes of the abdomen, immediately over the situ- ation of the colon. He said he had had a complaint in the bowels some weeks before, and that this came on subsequently. After he had been in the hospital a few days, there was mani- fest fluctuation; it was clear that matter had formed, and I let it out. The abscess contained about six or eight ounces of white, and, in appearance, very well-formed pus, possessing the fetid character I have just mentioned. This was an in- stance in which the matter formed near to a portion of the large intestines. I remember the case of an Irishman who came into the hospital with a swelling at about the middle of the inside of the thigh, exceedingly painful, and in which no fluid could be felt on examination. Leeches and poultices were ap- plied, and other means were employed to relieve the pain which was ascribed to the inflammation of the part. In a little time, however, it was clear that an abscess had taken place; there was matter formed, which I evacuated by puncture. About two or three ounces of very fetid pus flowed out, mixed with coagula of blood. I recollect, also, a patient who died in the hospital from inflammation of a vein in consequence of vene- section. An abscess occurred in the upper part of the fore- arm, which I opened before the patient died, and evacuated a mixture of matter and excessive fetid coagula, amounting to two or three ounces. You will find, that both the local and the general symptoms, in cases of abscesses presenting the peculiar characters I have mentioned, are very severe. There is high local inflammation, and a corresponding febrile disturbance of the system; but when you cotne to open those abscesses, and find the subse- quent progress is favourable, the recovery of the patient is just as rapid as if the pus had not displayed those particular cha- racteristics. This state of decomposition is not always to be regarded as an unfavourable circumstance. Chronic Abscess.—I come next to speak to you of chronic suppuration, or chronic abscess. Respecting suppuration, I may repeat the remark which I had occasion to make to you on the subject of inflammation, namely, that there are not ex- actly two degrees, and no more, of suppuration. We cannot say there is just one state which you call acute, and another which you call chronic ; on the contrary, there are numerous stages. On the one hand you have an inflammation in which pus forms in the course of a few hours, and that will come to