TREATMENT OF ABSCESS. 147 cyst, and those constitutional effects to which it gives rise. Mr. Abernethy’s mode of proceeding consists in making a : small puncture into the abscess, allowing the contents to i escape gently, and without permitting the introduction of air i into the cyst, then closing the opening, keeping it shut by ad- hesive plaster, and thus putting it into a situation for union I by adhesion. In order to accomplish this with greater cer- tainty, he has recommended that the skin, before the puncture has been made, should be drawn a little aside, so that when t the skin resumes its place, the opening through it and that into the cyst do not correspond; it is a method of making the aperture through the skin and into the cyst direct, but in fact ■ valvular. After the matter has been evacuated in this way, there will i be another secretion, and the incision must be repeated, so that iOne abscess may require several punctures. Under favourable . circumstancess, the abscess becomes limited in size, its parities coutract, the quantity of its contents is diminished, and thus, at i last, you bring it to so moderate a size, that you may make an opening into it in the usual way, and trust to its healing, as ;you do in the case of a phlegmonous abscess. This, then, is ’.the method, when it goes on favourably. Now you will easily .understand, that you must not expect such a termination as this in lumbar abscess at all times, nor in all chronic abscesses ; for, although this method prevents the injury that would arise ’from opening the cyst of a chronic abscess to the air, yet, of course, by puncturing it, you cannot get rid of that which exists in the vertebrse, nor in the disease in the bones of a joint. IThere are other sources of danger in these particular cases, which are to be obviated by other means. In conjunction with all the means you would adopt, likely to be beneficial in chronic abscess, you would resort to those •measures favourable for re-establishment of the health. You would give the patient the benefit of residence in pure air; you would attend carefully to the diet, letting it be light and nutritious, paying attention to the state of the stomach and bowels, and, in fact, to all those circumstances which generally contribute to the promotion of health. When the matter of chronic abscess has been let out, and you find the cyst having but little disposition to go into that state of contraction which would tend to obliterate its cavity, you may sometimes find it advantageous, if the nature of the part allow, to submit that portion to pressure, and thus promote the disposition to con- traction. When a chronic abscess is seated in one of the limbs, a bandage may be applied after the matter has been evacuated; still, however, since abscess of this kind very fre- l, 2