ULCERATION. 1S4 from an admixture of blood ; or sometimes there is a thin or viscid and glutinous matter appearing over it, of various co- lours. There are different kinds of discharge from inflamed ulcers, technically culled ichor, sanies, and sordes; ichor being a thin, nearly colourless, fluid, something like serum; sanies being thin, and tinged with blood more or less; and sordes being the thicker glutinous discharge. Now in sores thus circumstanced, it will frequently happen that a portion of the surface will slough ; and if a sloughing commences, of course the sore extends, with great rapidity, in depth, as well as along the surface. It may happen that some vessel may be laid open by the sloughing, and that bleeding will consequently take place by this extension of the sore ; and in fact such an occurrence is not unfavourable under such cir- cumstances, for the loss of blood from the part affords relief, by unloading the vpssels, and taking away an unnatural repletion. Sometimes, instead of this process, it appears as if the granula- tions were converted into a kind of greenish or livid substance, from which a thin offensive discharge issues, the circumference of the wound being inflamed. Very great pain is experienced in the part while the changes I have just described are going on; and feverishness, to a greater or less extent, affects the system generally. If the causes of this state of the sore are ne- glected, or if there be no proper attention paid to it, such ulcers lead to a considerable destruction of the part in which the sore is situated, particulaily in the lower extremities. To the causes which we have mentioned by which the inflammation is main- tained, we must add, considerable exertion of the part in which the sore is situated, especially if in the lower extremity : and particularly intemperance and indulgence in fermented liquors. The first object under such circumstances must of course be, to put a stop to inflammation, and this requires the general employment of the means I have already mentioned under the term antiphlogistic. The local or general loss of blood ; purg- ing and a reduced diet; rest of the affected part of course. Local applications to such a sore must be of a soothing charac- ter: tepid fomentations; warm poultices. I should mention by the way, that when the pain is very considerable, and when the depletion that may be necessary has not removed that pain, it is often expedient to give a pretty good dose of opium after the loss of blood. By the continuance and repetition of these means you remove the inflammation, and then the case must be treated according to the principles already mentioned. It frequently happens that inflammation retards the healing of a sore, although it is not attended with the obvious and strik- ing changes I have now described. Although the state of in-