364 GONORRHOEA. the two diseases existing together, for we might suppose them to be both acquired at the same time, especially in the female, where the poison is applied both to a secreting and to a non- secreting surface. Now we do occasionally find, that the two diseases exist together, but this is comparatively uncommon. Mr. Hunter determined to bring his opinion upon this point to direct experiment, and he therefore applied, by the puncture of a lancet, the matter of gonorrhoea to the surface of the glans penis and prepuce. He has given a long detail of the experi- ment he made, the result of which was the production of chancre in tbe part, the subsequent occurrence of bubo, ulce- rated sore throat, node, and so forth. If this experiment be admitted, it would decide the question ; because, according to the experiment, the production of syphilis by the gonorrhoeal discharge would be unequivocal. For my own part, however, I can only say, that in the narrative there are so many incon- sistencies, that, in spite of the high authority of Mr. Hunter, I must withhold my belief; and I am in some measure encouraged in this by the fact, that attempts have been made to produce primary syphilitic sores from gonorrhoeal matter, aud to produce gonorrhoea from the discharge of syphilitic sores, which attempts have totally failed. Mr. Benjamin Bell, of Edinburgh, recounts several experiments of this description —experiments in which gonorrhoeal discharge was introduced by inoculation with the lancet, and produced no effect what- ever. He gives other instances also, in which the secretion of primary syphilitic sores was applied to the vagina of the female, and to the male urethra, and the secretion from a chancre was introduced by a small puncture under the surface of the male urethra. He found, in these cases, that disease was produced, but not gonorrhoea ; in fact, chancre was pro- duced—chancre which led to the occurrence of secondary symptoms, and required a long course of treatment for their cure. And here I may further observe to you, that Mr. Hun- ter’s statement is by no means correct, that the application of any infectious matter, either to the vagina or urethra—that is, to a mucous surface, will produce not a sore, but discharge. The statement is incorrect); for we happen to know that chancre may take place within the orifice of the male urethra; and very troublesome it is when it does take place there. We know also, that it may take place within the vagina. The urethra, therefore, of the male, and the vagina of the female, are sus- ceptible of the occurrence of syphilitic ulceration. The general result, then, of the observations I have made to you, leads tne to this opinion, that gonorrhoea and syphilis are essentially different in their natures; that the poisons which