VENEREAL DISEASE; 346 scribed by Mr. Hunter in bis work on the venereal disease, and which, subsequently to his description, has regularly been as- sumed as constituting the true venereal disease or syphilis. Mr. Carmichael considers, that this form of venereal disease is par- ticularly benefited by the administration of mercury, and that, in fact, the employment of mercury so as to affect the system, is the best treatment of this form of the affection, whether in its primary or in its secondary shapes. I should have no hesita- tion in agreeing with him on this particular point, namely, that the indurated chancre, the scaly eruption, the excavated ulcer of the tonsils, and the nodes on the shafts of the long bones, with severe nocturnal pains occurring in the same bones, are symptoms which do require mercury, and the removal of which, if not absolutely requiring, is much accelerated by the employ- ment of mercury, so as to affect the system. We are not, how- ever, to lay down the use of mercury, even in this form of the disease, in that same absolute and positive manner, in which it was heretofore regarded as a remedy for syphilis. The recent inquiries into the history of syphilis demonstrate, as I have told you, that all forms of the venereal disease can get well without the use of mercury ; that syphilis is not that uncontrollabledis- ease which proceeds to destroy the part affected, and then goes on from one part to another, with a progress essentially de- structive throughout the system, till it destroys the individual in whom it occurs ; these are notions decidedly erroneous, be- cause the disease may go through its progress and wear itself out without mercury, in whatever form it may occur. We are to consider, therefore, that mercury, though the best remedy in treating the disease, is not such as that we are to persevere in the use of it at all hazards till we affect the system. Mercury acts, as I have told you, as a kind of poison in some indivi- duals, and produces very serious and very bad effects indeed. Heretofore it has been regarded as better that the individual should bear these ill effects, than that the syphilitic symp- toms should go on; but now we know that the venereal disease does not produce those destructive consequences, we hre not so imperatively called upon to persevere in the use of mercury, when its operation is essentially prejudicial to the in- dividual who takes it. Under such circumstances, then, even in this form of the disease, we should relax for a while our em- ployment of the mercury ; we should allow the bad effects to subside; we should resume the use of it again, leave it off again, return to it again in smaller quantities than those which we had before given, and so forth. And we derive this advan- tage, at all events, from the recent inquiries, namely, that we