ON MORTIFICATION. 160 to an ounce of distilled water, may be made use of. The yellow or black, basilicum, or stimulating forms of ointment, are well fitted to assist the object in view ; and the balsam of Peru is an eligible stimulus to be applied on such occasions. It does not excite the part very considerably, and it tends very much to correct the fetor connected with the process of morti- fication. In some instances, powdered camphor may be ad- vantageously strewed on the part in which the process is going on. It is rather a powerful stimulus, and may be employed where the part appears particularly languid. These are the means by which we can favour the separatiou of the mortified from the living parts. Then as to the question of removing the dead part in case a limb is affected by mortification.—The general rule has been not to perform amputation until the boundary between the mortified and living part is decidedly established, and no doubt this is a very wise rule. In instances where an entire limb is the seat of mortification, it will generally be found that the state of the constitution at the time has had much to do with the occurrence, and the progress of the mortification; there- fore, until that process is decidedly arrested, you may suppose that the same disposition which has given rise to the occur- rence of the complaint, still exists, and consequently, that if you amputate a limb under these circumstances, the wound which is made by amputation will take on mortification. On the general experience of this circumstance has been grounded the rule I have laid down to you, not to think of performing an operation until the boundary is completely established. When the process of mortification has thus come to a natural conclusion, you may suppose that a more healthy condition of the body has occurred, and you may expect that the wound, if you perform amputation, will go through the natural process necessary for its cure. I have seen an instance in which the toe, for example, has been the seat of mortification, where the condition of the limb has appeared quite favourable, free from any thing like disease; where the patient has seemed in a tolerably good healthy state, and where, from the very slow progress of the affection, it has been supposed that the disposi- tion to mortify was worn out: in instances of that kind, where amputation has been performed, although the boundary was not clearly established, frequently—I believe I may say gene- rally—the process of mortification has come on in the stump, and the operation has terminated without any advantage. So that in all instances where mortification arises from, or is kept up by internal causes—by an unsound state of the consti- tution, you must not think of performing the operation of am-