SCROFULA. 269 digestive, cutaneous, and muscular systems, which cannot, in any way, be distinguished from that of persons bom with scrofula. An opinion has been very generally entertained, by profes- sional men, that debility is the cause of scrofula—that it is the source of the various sufferings to which scrofulous individuals are subject. Hence it has been too often the case, that when scrofulous disease, or disease supposed to be scrofulous, is seen, the patient is directed to use tonic medicines, and to take animal food and fermented liquors; and with many persons the idea prevails, that the more both tonic medicines and stimulating articles of food and drink can be tsken, the better it is for the individual, the more likely is it that the disease will be re- moved •, I cannot, for my own part, conceive any opinion more erroneous. We shonld be much nearer the truth if we were to say that scrofulous patients ought to take no tonics or stimulating diet at all, and that they should abstain entirely from the sort of diet I have just mentioned. I do not mean to lay this down as a rule, but to say that this would be a much more rational and safe plan. The state of a scrofulous subject is certainly, in one point of view, a state of debility. Scrofulous subjects are not capable of doing mauy of those thiugs which are accomplished by healthy individuals, and, so far, they may be said to be weak; but you are to consider that the functions of scrofulous subjects are more easily excited ; they will bear the influence of external agencies less than healthy individuals. How can you expect, therefore, that great quantities of bark and other tonic medi- cines can be taken into the stomach and alimentary canal with advantage? How canyousuppose that thepatientcan beat large quantities of animal food and fermented liquors ? The notion, in my opinion, is altogether unreasonable. Unquestionably, the regulation of diet, and the selection of the articles that are to constitute the food, are circumstances of great consequence in the treatment of scrofulous individuals. The diet should he of a nutritious, but not of a stimulating or exciting kind. A mixed diet of animal and vegetable food has been found, by the experience of all ages, and all countries, to be the best suited to the human organization. 1 see no reason whatever, therefore, for prohibiting scrofulous subjects from taking vegetable ali- ment; a moderate portion of the lighter kinds of animal food, taken once a-day, and the mixture of it with well dressed vegetables, bread and milk, farinaceous articles, and ripe fruits, these are the kinds of articles that should form the diet of scro- fulous individuals. Certainly in many instances, particulaily tuose of the excitable kind of scrofulous subjects, animal food