182 ULCERATION. in the limb. Under such circumstances he recommends that the limb should be laid up for a little time, and that a wetted rag shall be put over it, so as to moisten the bandage, and pro- duce cold. In conjunction with these you may, if you think fit, apply other local means to the sore. There are certain applications, in the form of ointments, which are capable of affording relief. I believe you will find, in general, that the steady and effec- tual application of bandages will do ; but you may apply with these the red precipitate ointment, or the saturnine ointment. Heretofore surgeons made great use of the digestive ointment, as it was called, such as the basilican ointment, yellow and black; the nitrate of silver, or the sulphate of copper; or the sulphate of zinc, or the oxmuriate of mercury, may be applied in solution. It is not necessary to confine the patient to bed when he is treated in this way; and, indeed, it is a peculiar advantage in this treatment, that the patient need not be con- fined to bed, but may use the limb and follow his occupation. It is sufficient to dress a sore in this way every two or three days, for although those sores, when left to themselves, secrete a thin, unhealthy matter, yet when they are treated as I have mentioned, the quantity of the discharge is very much dimi- nished, and it becomes very much more healthy, so that there is not a necessity for very numerous dressings. I believe these indolent ulcers are what some writers have called fungous ulcers, the granulations being apt to rise up into very large masses above the surface of the surrounding skin. You will sometimes read of callous ulcers, and iu them you find a sore, the margins of which are elevated and indurated, and in which the elevated part becomes covered by a hardened cuticle, which is rendered white and sodden by the application of moisture ; the surface presents an excavation, which, instead of exhibiting a large flabby sore, has the appearance of a sore from which there is but little discharge, a kind of sore in which there appears to be no disposition to the performance of the restorative process. Local stimuli and pressure are the means to be employed under such circumstances. A varicose state of the veins of the lower extremities often tends to chronic inflammation of some portion of the skin, par- ticularly of the leg ; and the skin, when once inflamed, usually passes into the state of ulceration ; and thus you have a sore formed which depends on the varicose condition of the limb, and which has been called a varicose ulcer; not that there is any thing particularly varicose in the ulcer itself, but it is an ulcer in the skin consequent on a chronic inflammation, de- pending on the morbid stale of the veins of the limb. In the