ECCHYMOSIS. 209 siderably affected, without the parts being actually divided, and frequently iu conjunction with this effect, there is effusion of blood into the substance of the part; this latter, however, is not absolutely necessary to the production of wounds of this kind. Such, however, is generally the character of an injury which constitues a bruise or contusion. The effect of this iiyury is to interfere materially with the function which the part affected should execute. Thus, when muscles are bruised, the motions which they have to perform can either not be exe- cuted at all, or are executed very imperfectly. If bruises take place about a joint, considerable Stiffness of the joint is pro- duced : here the part should be kept perfectly quiet. If there be considerable pain produced, blood should be taken from the part by the application of leeches, and the other local means which are calculated to prevent the occurrence of inflammation should be adopted. The treatment, in fact, must be of the antiphlogistic character, according to the nature of the symp- toms produced. When muscles are btuised, it is of con- siderable importance that the injured part should be kept at rest, that is, that the muscles should not be exerted for a con- siderable time after the occurrence of the injury, in order that they may recover their power of contraction. EcchymosLi■—The effusion of blood in consequence of a cruise, is technically called ecchyrnosis, and it may take place either into the interstices, so as to be diffused throughout the part generally, or it may collect together in one point. In the case of diffused ecchyrnosis, tire blood gradually and mechani- cally tinges the texture of the part, and produces those colours which are familiarly known by the terms black and blue marks consequent on bruising. Those black and blue marks are not produced immediately; they do not immediately follow the blow, but there seems to be a gradual tinging of the part by the blood, when the effusion has taken place. A portion of the skin becomes of a dark-brownish, or reddish appearance; then come the other colours; and the changes of colour which are thus produced, often extend to a considerable distance from the part which has been immediately injured. The blood which is thus effused, is removed by the absorb- ents ; and perhaps, there is no application that we can make use of, that will very much accelerate the natural process of absorption. The blood will be removed by the absorbents if no applications at all be employed. Some substances, however, in the Materia Medica, have been considered to possess the power of accelerating this natural process, and they have been called discutients. The muriate of ammonia in the form of solution, has been considered to have this power; and thus it p