VENEREAL DISEASE. ^90 writers, as some of those do who have considered the subject. It does not appear to me very extraordinary that they should not have given a clear description of the venereal disease : they may not have understood the nature of it, they may not have understood the various relations in which the different symp- toms are to be viewed. Supposing we saw a person with a certain eruption, we should not know (unless previously in- formed) that the eruption arose from a sore the patient had had weeks or months before. It may be then,that a longtime may have elapsed before the relation of the symptoms to each other was comprehended. We find many instances in the history of our art, where things, that appear to us most obvious, must have been overlooked for a long time. Although a knowledge of the small-pox existed for centuries, yet people were ignorant that that disease was contagious; this is only a circumstance of modern knowledge. The small-pox, measles, and scarlet fever, were confounded together for centuries, and no distinc- tion was made between these three affections till a comparatively recent time ; indeed between the measles and scarlet fever, no distinction was made till about the middle of the last century. That the mere silence of persons who have written on a subject respecting some parts of its history, does not prove that what they omitted to notice did not exist, we have clear evidence from other considerations. Now Mr. Hunter, who must be deemed to have been a man of great knowledge, took much pains in investigating the venereal disease : the late Mr. John Pearson was a man of extensive learning, and he also laboured in the examination of the subject, but neither of those gentle- men was acquainted with gonorrhoeal ophthalmia, or syphilitic affections of the eyes, in which organs the disease has always been strongly marked. Now if persons, two or three hundred years hence, were to argue that such diseases did not exist now, because these gentlemen had not mentioned them, they would come to a very wrong conclusion. In the same way, I apprehend, we should adopt an erroneous supposition, if we imagined that the venereal disease did not exist in ancient times, because the medical writers of those times have not given a clear description of it. Syphilis can only be produced by a poison communicated from a diseased to another person. In the great majority of instances this morbific influence is caused by the secretion of a sore, which, being applied to the sound surface of a healthy part, produces the primary symptoms of the disease. The matter, or pus, thus secreted from a primary venereal sore, is capable of infecting another person to whom it is applied—that