NATURE AND CLASSIFICATION OF DISEASES. 35 are less general, that make up the differences in the various organs. Hence, as the essential basis of structure is the same throughout, so all the morbid affections must be somewhat similar, because each part can only exhibit those diseases which the elementary parts are capable of exhibiting. It is true that disease differs in the various organs of the body, but the differences are in form ; the essential nature of disease is nearly the same throughout. That part of the science of medicine which considers names, and the distribution of diseases into classes, is technically called nosology. Diseases have sometimes .been considered topographically, that is, according to their situation in the body; and the older writers have treated them in this way, beginning with the diseases of the head, and descending to those of the extremities. This, at all events, does not involve any technical ground of confusion—does not lead to error; it leads, however, to tediousness, because the various parts of the body are liable to similar affections, and if you describe them as they appear in each part, you must go over the ground again and again. An abscess is the same whether it is formed in the head, the chest, or the limbs; and the same remark will apply to other affections. Modern nosologists have generally attempted to ground their arrangements of disease on their views of its nature. Their efforts have been, in general, very unsuccessful, because the nature of disease, as I have already pointed out, is imper- fectly known. Most of these nosologists have been but im- perfectly acquainted with anatomy and physiology, and there- fore their distinctions, so far as they go, have in most instances been fauciful, and have been founded on particular doctrines and symptoms, which will not bear examination ; and, conse- quently, most of these persons, instead of rendering the subject clearer, will be found to have introduced mere names, which have left it more obscure. Great advantage has been derived in the study of natural history from methodical arrangement. A very great man, Linnaeus of Sweden, who lived in the last century, employed himself in arranging natural objects ac- cording to their natural affinities. The success which attended his efforts led to the adoption of the same kind of method in the arrangement of diseases. A nosology was published by a French physician, (Sauvages) in which diseases were arranged in species and genera, and were combined in orders and classes, much in the same way that Linnaeus arranged plants and ani muls, and other productions of nature. This arrangement of diseases by Sauvages included 10 classes, about 300 generil, and above 4,000 species. The example of Sauvages was fol- D 2