258 WOUNDS RECEIVED IN DISSECTION. cember. He assisted in sowing up tbe body, and was not aware that he had injured himself; he did not know that he had even pricked himself. At eight in the evening of the same day, being then dining out in company with a friend, he felt some heat and uneasiness in the end of one of his fingers, and he then thought he must have injured himself. On looking at the finger, a slight blush was observed upon it, and when the part was more particularly examined, a minute opening in the centre of that blush was observed, so that the inference was that he had pricked that part in sewing up the body. He had it touched with the nitrate of silver, and also with a small quantity of the nitric acid, those applications being at hand. Now, these remedies were unattended with pain. He went home, and finding the finger still uneasy, as the former appli- cations had given him no pain, he again applied the nitrate of silver, continuing the application till he felt it sensibly, and then the pain thus produced increased to a degree of agony. Shiverings came on, and he passed a terribly restless night. When he was seen early in the morning, red lines were ob- served extending along the back of the band. At eight in the morning of the 29th, the eschar was observed to be about the size of a split pea, which of course was supposed to arise from the application of the nitrate of silver. Leeches were directed to be applied, and fomentations, poultices, and aperient medi- cines-Ordered. About one o’clock on the same day, that is, on the day after that on which he had opened the body, tbe finger appeared swollen, and put on a livid appearance, the pain being very considerable. The medical friend who saw him, made an incision through the integument down to the bone, and by so doing, found that the two last joints of the finger had mortified. No blood flowed, nor was pain experienced. The last phalanx and the middle phalanx of the finger were already in a state of gangrene ; red lines were observed extending along the fore- arm up to the ulna, and uneasiness was felt in the axilla. At this time he experienced a complete prostration of strength, and felt himself as weak as a child. There was an irregularity in the breathing, considerable torpor, and the pulse from 90 to 100, and soft. During the rest of the day, he had much of a heavy kind of sleep, with intervals of severe pain. The hand and arm swelled now very considerably; the absoibents in- flamed along the arm, and the axillary glands also became affected. A greater degree of torpor and depression super- vened, with difficulty of breathing, accompanied by an erysi- pelatous blush in the axilla, and about the side of the chest. An opening was made in those situations without giving vent to any matter, and the gentleman died at six o’clock of the