PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF FEVER. 121 ^and during the whole of that period he took purgatives, which kcept up a discharge from the bowels, and, in particular, be took ix great deal of calomel, which is one of the remedies Broussais wegards with abhorrence. I examined the body after death; and having seen the remarks of the French pathologist, I thought it a very favourable instance to show whether purga- tives were really capable of producing all the bad effects which ;.uave been ascribed to them. On examination, I found the ■mucous membrane of the stomach and alimentary canal throughout perfectly healthy, there was not a single speck of ..ulceration throughout. It happens occasionally, that the stomach rejects aperient mtedicines, or, indeed, any other kind of medicines you may put into it, and probably this may arise from a determination of blood to the mucous membrane—from what may be called inflammation of that membrane. But so much benefit is derived in all cases from getting the alimentary canal unloaded, ■that I think it a great object to introduce purgative medicines; ■when, therefore, great irritability of the stomach exists, we ■should administer such medicines as are active in small com- ipass. Calomel is one, and the croton oil is another of those ^medicines. They may be administered under such circum- stances, and the evacuation of the bowels by means of glysters may be attempted. There is a third form of sympathetic fever, in which the head is principally affected—in which the symptoms are refer- able to disorder existing in the head, and show themselves either in various painful sensations connected with that part, or in the condition of the external senses, or in the various mental faculties, or in the condition of the muscular system, particularly in the greater or less degree of imperfection of voluntary power. This constitutes the nervous fever of the old English writers; and probably it is to this state to which ■the term we so frequently use, typhus fever, is applicable; although that term is not a very definite one, it is the ataxic fever of the French. This phrase merely means disorder, and I fancy it has been employed to express the considerable dis- turbance and irregularity of those functions which are carried 5 on by the nervous system. When a febrile attack of this kind J has lasted some time, when it is considerably advanced, and I more particularly if no active means have been used to prevent • its progress, the symptoms assume a particularly serious and dangerous appearance. The oppression of the nervous system, the want of power over the muscles, the muscular tremors and agitations, the great and serious disturbance of the digestive I organs, indicated by a brown and dry state of the tongue,