11G INFLAMMATION; ceptation, as denoting increased heat of the body, is merely the name of a symptom, and not of a disease; and in this sense we find it is originally used by Hippocrates and the earlier writers, who, in describing local disease, and enumerating its conditions, speak ofit as attended with TwpETo? or fever—speaking of feveras a symptom of local affection. When any important organ is actively diseased, we find that general vascular excitement is combined with the symptoms proper to that organ; and thus, frequently, the name of the affection embodies these two circumstances. People talk, in common language, of brain fever; and really it is by no means a bad name—disorder of the brain connected with fever ; ca- tarrhal fever, rheumatic fever, symptomatic fever—these are names of a similar kind. We do not say pneumonic fever, enteritic fever, and so forth; but we give professionally to these affections a name merely denoting the original seat of disease. When we are ignorant of the local causes which produce the symptoms I am now considering, that is, the increased fre- quency of pulse and increased heat; or when we regard them as arising without any such cause, we call the case idiopathic fever; and the French call itfievre essentielle—essential fever. The term idiopathic fetar conveys this meaning, that the fever is immediately produced by the causes of disease; and thus idiopathic fever would be contradistinguished from sympathetic, where the original cause of disease produces an affection of a certain organ, and the affection of that organ causes the febrile disturbance. In the same way, the French phrase of essential fever, imports, that the fever, that is, the general disturbance, is the essence of the complaint. In the other case, the affec- tion is termed symptomatic or sympathetic fever. That is, the disturbance of the circulation is regarded as an effect or symp- tom of a previously existing disease in some part of the body. Now, with respect to this distinction of idiopathic and sym- pathetic fever, we should observe that the existence of the for- mer, as a distinct class of disease, is not yet clearly ascertained. Heretofore, fever has been regarded merely as a general affec- tion of the frame; but, in proportion as the researches of mor- bid anatomy have been more accurately conducted, it has been found that this general disturbance owes its origin to some! local disorder; and hence, of late years, more particularly in France, where pathological researches are conducted under peculiar advantages, it has been argued by some of the most! distinguished physicians, that there is no such thing as essen- tial or idiopathic fever, as a general disturbance of the system,] independent of local affection, but that all diseases are the con-i