106 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION; use of (o the inflamed part, for the purpose of reducing this increased temperature. These consist of liquids, technically called, lotions or washes. They are used by taking a soft piece of linen, three or four times folded, dipping it into the fluid, squeezing it out, so as to have it damp, laying it on the part, and moistening it frequently. The effect of these appli- cations, probably, does not depend so much upon the mere circumstance of their being lower in temperature than the part to which they are applied, as their being used in such a way, as that the fluid may be evaporated from the surface of the part. You are well acquainted with the fact, that evaporation is a very powerful mode of producing cold, and thus when a moistened rag is laid on a part and exposed to the air, evaporation goes on of the fluid contained in that rag, and thus the temperature of the part with which it is in contact, becomes considerably reduced. Hence the washes or lotions used for this purpose, in reference to the particular mode of their appli- cation, are called evaporating lotions ; and it is of importance when you attempt to reduce temperature in this way, that you should see the liquid is so employed as to admit of evaporation. If you leave a person to apply a wash himself, he will, per- haps, apply a rag dipped in it to the part, cover it over with a handkerchief, and then lay it under the bed-clothes. Now it is obvious that evaporation cannot go on there, that the rag soon becomes of the same temperature with the part, and the limb is kept in a sort of warm bath. For the purpose of pro- ducing cold in this way, cold water may be applied, iced water, vinegar and water, or rose water. Very commonly, what is called the saturnine lotion is used. This was heretofore con- sidered a very powerful remedy, and its effect in reducing in- flammation, was referred to the sedative property of the prepa- ration of lead, which it contains. We continue to use the saturnine lotion, or Goulard’s wash, as it is called, from its original maker, although we do not believe that the lead has any such effect as was ascribed in it. Sometimes alcohol, or ether, is added to the fluids that are used for washes, in order to increase the evaporating process. Spirits of wine, rectified spirits, or the liquor ammoniae acetatis, may be employed in conjunction with rose water for a lotion, making an agreeable and pleasant smelling lotion : two ounces of either of these, to six or eight ounces of the rose-water. When we wish to re- duce the temperature of the part still further, we apply ice to it, roughly powdered, and wrapped in a cloth, or put into a bladder. Such application is, of course, at a temperature of 32 degrees; and if this be kept on until it is melted, the effects are very striking, particularly when applied to the bead,