68 CAUSES AND EFFECTS OF INFLAMMATION. to the surface of a tumour or aneurism. Inflammation is pro- duced by the application of heat, or of strong acids to any of the animal textures ; by pure alkalies, and various other acrid matters, whether animal or vegetable. Under the former head, we may mention morbific poisons. Again, it is produced by the bites and stings of a variety of insects, by those of venom- ous serpents, and by the bites of rabid animals. It is produced by the application of cold or moisture; and by various atmos- pherical changes, the nature of which we cannot exactly appre- ciate; and here we find that some such influences are capable of producing inflammation directly; thus a current of cold air, particularly if combined with moisture, will cause inflammation of the eye. The same immediately applied to the mucous membrane of the nose, throat, trachea, and air-passages of the lungs, will cause inflammation of these parts. Again, the application of cold or moisture to an external part may bring on inflammation in some internal organ, or in some part remote from the seat of the direct application. Thus, if a person get wet in the feet, he may have an attack of catarrh, sore throat, or rheumatism. Cold and moisture, and the various atmo- spherical changes, are thus capable of influencing indirectly the internal and comparatively remote parts. An organ may become inflamed in consequence of excessive exertion in the execution of its natural function. Thus, if the eye be exces- sively exerted in the observation of minute objects, inflamma- tion may be produced in it. Excessive mental exertion will cause disorder in the head. In the same way, the stomach or intestines, the lungs, or the various other organs, may be im- mediately inflamed, in consequence of unnatural exertion in the execution of their ordinary functions. The causes of inflammation now mentioned, admit of being divided into two classes: some of them, such as external inju- ries, or the application of chemical substances or morbific ani- mal poisons, will produce inflammation wherever they are in- flicted. They certainly and necessarily produce it in some de- gree; it may be more or less. Suppose we take the case of a surgical operation. If the operation be performed on a person who has been carefully prepared for it, and who i$, in other respects, healthy, only a slight degree of inflammation will be the consequence; but if the individual should be unhealthy, or if no pains should have been taken to place him under favour- able circumstances, a very considerable degree of inflammation will be produced. If you extract a cataract from an individua in a healthy condition of body, and whom you have carefully prepared for it, perhaps you will have hardly any perceptibU inflammation at all; but if the operation be performed on a