155 ON MORTIFICATION. patient. Pressure on a part of the body by a particular position long kept up, as when a patient remains in bed upon his back, in consequence of some serious injury, the portion of the skin upon which the body rests, will frequently mortify from that cause. Violent inflammation, which first excites the circu- lation, and then leads to its suspension, will produce this cala- mity. It appears as if, under violent inflammation, the dis- order is sometimes carried to a height which the part is not capable of sustaining, so that the blood stagnates, and, in fact, the part perishes. Generally speaking, a high degree of inflam- mation is necessary to produce this effect; but sometimes mor- tification occurs from a degree of inflammation that does not appear to us to be of the highest kind ; and, indeed, in cases of this description, we must consider the state of the system, and of the part in which the inflammation takes place. When the limb has been in a weakened state, a comparatively trifling degree of inflammation will be sufficient to produce mortifica- tion. If a part has been frost-bitten, and consequently much weakened, the inflammation that ensues, though not very vio- lent, leads to its destruction. In the case of anasarcous limbs, when blisters have been applied, or when limbs have been sca- rified to let out the fluid with which they are distended, it has been by no means uncommon for mortification to be produced by those comparatively trifling local injuries ; and here you ascribe the occurrence by no means so much to the degree of inflammation, as to its combination with want of power in the vital functions of the part. I have already mentioned mortification as an effect of that particular change in the state of arteries, known by the term os- sification. Now, certain other internal causes, the nature and operation of which are unknown to us, are also capable of pro- ducing mortification. Thus, feeding on rye in that particular state in which it is called, by tbe English spur, and by the French ergot, predisposes to mortification ; so that, in those conntries where rye is an article of food, there are, in bad sea- sons, when it gets into this state, numerous instances of this calamity. Mortification, too, sometimes happens from external causes, the nature of which is equally unknown to us. Thus it may be produced by the contact of the skin with some animal substance, in estate of decomposition which will produce a gangrenous affection which we call malignant pustules. Now the various causes I have mentioned should be divided into two heads, the internal and external. Of the internal, the most important is an unhealthy, weakened, or deranged state of the constitution, which produces a predisposition to mortification. Prognosis.—The prognosis in mortification is generally a