ON THE NATURE AND SEAT OF DISEASES. 29 the stomach, alimentary canal, and various subsidiary organs, will have great influence in exciting disease in other parts, yet we must not look to them alone, as the primary seat of all dis- ease. We find clearly that the brain, the centre of the nervous system, may be diseased, without a disease existing in those parts, by a cause that is applied solely to it. Intenseness of application, mental exertion and anxiety, and a variety of causes that are capable of acting on the brain alone, may dis- turb it, although the stomach and alimentary canal generally shall be in a healthy state. In most diseases, you find symptoms referable to both these heads; that is, certain symptoms which arise immediately from the disturbed state of the organ, and others, which are owing to the sympathetic influence of that organ on other parts of the body. When we say that one part sympathizes with another, we merely denote the fact, that the affections are co-existing. What is the meaning of the word sympathy ? It merely means suffering with. The physical is very similar to the moral sense of the term. If, in an affection of the head, the stomach is deranged, and we say the stomach sympathizes with the head, we merely express that the stomach suffers in conjunction with the head, or at the same time as the head: sympathy merely means that. When we see a person in a state of anxiety, or distress, or pain, or suffering, and we feel an unpleasant emotion ourselves, we sympathize or suffer with the individual;—in the same way one organ suffers with or sympathizes with another. In the animal economy the word merely denotes the circumstance that the affection of one organ takes place iu conjunction with another. It does not explain the fact. When we come to inquire how this is produced, various explanations may be given, according to the various causes. With regard to nervous sympathy—the nerves are distributed over all parts of the body, and particularly the nerves in conjunction with those common centres to which I have before referred. The brain, and the spinal cord, afford easy means to understand how it is that various organs are combined together, in their morbid as well as in their natural functions. The sympathetic effects of one organ upon another differ materially under various circumstances. We find that the sympathetic effect is more powerful in proportion as the organ primarily afl'ected is of greater importance in the animal economy; and the affection of the organ is of greater conse- quence in proportion as the individual in whom the affection takes place is more irritable, or of a more excitable system.