44- LECTURE IV. Inflammation. The causes of disease, gentlemen, however various they may appear to be in the great majority of instances, augment the living actions of the parts in which they occur. They are said to stimulate, to excite, to irritate, to inflame. All injuries, and all external irritations, produce inflammation, and a great variety of internal causes, which in many cases we cannot exactly ascertain, or satisfactorily appreciate, produce the same result. Inflammations, again, occur in certain cases (if we may use such an expression) sympathetically: they seem to be effects or symptoms of a general disorder existing in the frame. Of all the various diseases which constitute the cata- logues of our nosologists, by far the greater part consist either of inflammation in particular organs, or of changes which are produced by it ; and there are very few instances indeed in which inflammation in some part is not either a cause or con- sequence of disease, a concomitant circumstance, or a mode of cure. When I say mode of cure, I allude to the production of inflammation artificially as the means of remedying disease. This is a circumstance peculiar to inflammation, and not be- longing to any other morbid affection. We have the power, by various applications to the body, of exciting inflammation, which is exactly similar to that which arises from causes occurring within the frame. We cannot, however, in the same way, produce organic changes, such as cancer, fungus harmatodes, exostosis. Of what are called general affections of the frame, there are very few cases in which there is not inflammation of some particular organ, and in which that inflammation is not either the cause of the affection, or a concomitant circumstance. I believe we shall hardly meet with any cases of common fever in which we shall not find this exemplified; and even in intermittent fever it is by no means uncommon. Therefore, a course of lectures, whether medical or surgical, should be princi- pally occupied in describing inflammation, in pointing out the effects which it produces in the several organs and textures of the body, in showing the various forms under which it appears, in investigating its causes, explaining its varieties, and ex- hibiting the means by which it may be controlled, arrested, or removed. With this extensive and important subject I there-