328 VENEREAL DISEASE; consequently considerably swelled. This inflamed and swelled state of the glans painfully distends the prepuce. The prepuce is also highly inflamed, and acts as a kind of ligature and a source of local pressure upon the inflamed and sloughing glans penis. Thus the glans and the prepuce mutually injure each other. The swelled glans produces a stretched and inflamed condition of the prepuce, and, in fact, carries that inflammation to such a degree as often to produce mortification; and the pressure of the inflamed prepuce acts with equally injurious effect on the glans itself. You find every indication of high inflammation of the penis generally, and of the glans particu- larly. You have a copious flow of reddish, sanious, and very offensive matter, from the contracted orifice of the prepuce; under such circumstances, no doubt, the means I have just mentioned to you will relieve the symptoms of the affection; the free employment of the antiphlogistic means will lessen them. But these alone will not do. You will not succeed in relieving the patient unless you combine with them the operation of di- viding the prepuce. Carry a director into the orifice of the prepuce, and conduct it along the superior and middle surface of the glans until it has reached the part of reflection over the glans; you then divide the prepuce, by a sharp-pointed bis- toury ; and as in this way you cut through the whole of the prepuce, you generally produce a very large bleeding, which affords great benefit; and still further relief is afforded by thus relieving the glans and the prepuce both, from the pressure which they mutually produced on each other. This is a very important auxiliary measure in addition to the antiphlogistic means 1 have already described. Now, some apprehension has been entertained respecting the effect of this process, from the probability of the divided edges of the prepuce taking on the same gangrenous or phagedenic process which is going on in the original ulceration. The risks of this operation have been very strongly represented by some persons as a sufficient reason against resorting to the practice. I have divided the prepuce in a great number of instances in cases where the worst kinds of ulcerations have existed either upon the glans, or upon the internal surface of the prepuce itself; and I have never, in any one single instance, seen any ill consequences result. I have never seen an unfavourable ulceration take place on the mar- gins of those wounds; on the contrary, in instances where a sloughing or phagedenif state of ulceration has existed, and the sores have been exposed by such a division of the prepuce, I have very frequently seen that the margins of the divided prepuce, that is the edges of the wound, have maintained a perfectly healthy character, and have actually healed, while the other