INFLAMMATION 51 lungs; and when a larger quantity of that fluid is sent into, and circulates through, any part, it will obviously follow, that the temperature of that part must be increased, but still it never rises above the natural heat of the blood. The swelling is to be accounted for partly by the turgescence occasioned by the general distension of the blood-vessels, and partly by the interstitial deposition. The pain will be readily explained by the circumstance of the nerves participating, as well as all other parts, in the general disturbance. It has been a disputed point ■whether the pressure of the turgid vessels upon the nerves caused the pain, or the irritation of the nerves gave rise to the vascular turgidity :—it is a question of little moment, and which scarcely admits of a positive answer. The constitu- tional symptoms are to be regarded as sympathetic effects pro- duced by the state of the inflamed part; and here we see that the local disturbance acts equally on the vascular, nervous, digestive, and secreting systems; they are all equally affected. Of these sympathetic affections another view may betaken; we may suppose, and some of the phenomena would seem to convey that view, that the sanguiferous system is in the first place disturbed, and that the consequence of that is the in- flamed state of the vessels. That this derangement is com- municated to the rest of the vascular system, and that the increased disorder in the latter will account for the disturb- ance that takes place in the digestive, nervous, and secreting systems. A further question arises respecting what is called the theory of inflammation; whether we can exactly explain what that state of the minute vessels is, which produces the changes I have mentioned to you ? Much attention has been paid to this subject. Many efforts have been made to discover the secret of nature in this process ; but hitherto these efforts have been unsuccessful. All we can say is, that inflammation is increased exertion of the circulating system of the affected part, but in what that augmented activity consists, we cannot de- termine. It is an increased exertion, with an alteration in the mode of action, but we cannot point out in what that alteration consists. It is not simply a state of increased activity, because if the vascular system of the hand were increased in its ordinary action, it might occasion increase in the bulk, but would not produce inflammation. Boerhaave was of opinion, that the particles of blood stopped up the calibre of the minute vessels ; Cullen thought there was a spasm in them ; others have sup- posed them to be in a state of atony or paralysis ; all these are mere visionary notious. A great many have employed them- selves with microscopic investigations, observing the circulation E 2