331 LECTURE XXVI. Venereal Disease. — Treatment of Primary Syphilis—Secondary Symptoms. I spoke to you, gentlemen, in the last lecture, of the treat- ment of sloughing and phagedenic primary syphilitic sores, and 1 have now to address you on the treatment which should be adopted in primary syphilitic sores of other descriptions : that is, in the simple venereal sore in which there is no induration, i nor elevatiou of the edge ; and the primary sore which has an elevated margin, and the indurated character, and in the various other modifications, which may approach more or less to the character of either of these ; and these will include the greater i part of primary syphilitic sores, for the sloughing sores and the i phagedenic sores are few, in comparison with the others. It is in reference, then, to the sores of which I am now about to speak, that the question occurs as to the use of mercury ; for in sloughing sores, and also in phagedenic sores, generally, ' the use of mercury is out of the question. Now, with respect to the other descriptions of primary venereal sores, I think the . points we have to consider, regarding the employment of mer- cury, may be comprehended under three questions ; first, whe- ther the use of mercury is essential in the treatment or to the cure of such sores ; secondly, whether the employment of mer- cury will abridge the duration of the complaint; or, in other ■ terms, whether it will expedite the cure; and thirdly, whether it will prevent the occurrence of secondary symptoms ; whe- ther it will have any effect in protecting the constitution from those subsequent occurrences which we call constitutional i syphilis. Now, that the employment of mercury is not essential to the cure of these sores, 1 have had occasion to explain to you, and ) I have shown to you that it has been proved by abundant evi- dence that all forms of venereal disease may get well without the use of mercury. The next question, then, is, whether it abridges the duration of the complaint; and on this, the evi- dence is in some respects contradictory. I know it was the opinion of Mr. Rose, whose name I have mentioned, as having commenced in this country those important investigations which throw so much light on the natural history of the vene- real disease, and who first shewed that primary syphilitic sores might get well without the use of mercury—1 know it was his