ULCERATION. 180 ably, especially in an individual of healthy constitution. The newly deposited substance in such an ulcer, is of a firm con- sistence, the granulations are small and pointed, and do not rise above the level of the surrounding skin. The colour of the granulations is florid, as if the capillaries contained arterial blood ; but even in an ulcer of this description, the colour will depend much upon the attitude of the limb; for instance, if the colour of the granulations be florid while the limb is in the horizontal position, supposing it to be the lower extremity, if you hang it down it will become livid, and some of the vessels may give way, and it will bleed. The pus secreted on such a sore is thick, whitish, and moderate in quantity. The treatment of a sore that is proceeding in this way, you will immediately perceive, must be very simple; you have only to cover the sore externally by a soft poultice or simple dressing, and a bandage, and allow Nature to go through the process, which she will perform well. It may happen that the granulations will arise a little above the skin, and this may for a while deter the healing process; for cicatrisation, which is the elongation of the sound skin over the ulcer, and which never takes place except from the sides of the wound, may not go on, and it may therefore be necessary for you to apply an escharotic, such as the sulphate of copper or the nitrate of silver, over the wound. ( Indolent Ulcers.—Indolent ulcers are seen on the lower ex- tremities of old and enfeebled subjects, especially after a long application of poultices, or similar remedies. The granula- tions of such sores are large, painful, and flabby, or spongy, and there is a copious discharge of thin pus from them. The limb generally is swollen—cedematous. The appearances in fact, of the sore and the limb generally, are those that mark a want of vigour in the parts. I have already adverted to the effect which position has in regulating the movement of the venous blood, and thus in influencing the appearance of ulcers. Of course the horizontal posture of the limb, and indeed of the body, will be more favourable to the return of venous blood from the lower extremities than the perpendicular posture; and hence you might suppose that a sore, with the characters I have described, would be best treated by the individual being always kept in bed. No doubt this position favours the return of venous blood, and the ulcer, ceteris paribus, is more likely to heal; but to confine a patient always to bed, be- cause of merely having a sore on the leg, is objectionable; and the mere confinement to bed is not sufficient to answer all the purposes in such a case. We find that pressure has a very great effect in promoting the return of the venous blood, and