GOUT AND RHEUMATISM. 279 inflammation. In gouty inflammation, the disease, as in a rheumatic affection, exhibits its full characters at the first onset of the affection. The commencement of the attack is charac- terised by very severe pain in the part, this increases to a high degree, and then gradually declines. The patient next be- comes comparatively free from pain, but within a short time it again commences and goes through the same stages. Thus an attack of gout consists of a series of paroxysms, which gradu- ally diminish until they entirely disappear. Here, too, as in rheumatism, the complaint often abruptly ceases in one joint, and cxteuds to another; and the joint that was the original seat of disease may again become affected. In common in- flammation, then, we seem to observe nothing but the imme- diate development of inflammation in the part, consequent on local causes; but in rheumatic and gouty inflammations we have the local inflammation, that is, the affection of the part, and we have a something else superadded to that. The main object of our inquiry, therefore, is, What is the nature of that additional circumstance which distinguishes gouty and rheu- matic inflammation from common inflammation of a joint ? Now we find, that a person who experiences for the first time a gouty attack, almost invariably labours under an unnatural fulness of habit, that is, his constitution is in that state which is produced by excessive nutrition, the result of luxurious ha- bits and indolence. Gouty inflammation takes place particu- larly in individuals who are of a sanguine temperament and a robust habit of body. Generally speaking, it takes place in the higher classes of society; at all events in those whose situations in life give them the power of indulging in sensual gratifica- tions. Poor persons who have not the means of indulging their appetites, and have to work hard, very generally escape gout. When a gouty attack takes place in the first instance, the pa- tient has a full hounding pulse; there is considerable heat of the surface; there is a white tongue, costiveness, and disorder of the digestive organs ; that is, those circumstances are pre- sent which indicate a state of plethora from excessive nutri- tion. We cannot say that gout depends simply on derange- ment of the digestive organs, although these are generally dis- ordered at the time. The truth is, that the state of the system which seems to create a disposition to gout, requires a sound and an active state of the digestive organs. It requires that a person should have a very healthy and active condition of the stomach, and that it should be capable of digesting a large quantity of aliment, to permit the excessive nutrition which predisposes to the disease. If the stomach be weak, and but little can be taken iuto it, gout is precluded. You will find