242 HYDROPHOBIA face. She had a small pimple on her chin, of which she had rubbed off the top, and allowing the dog to indulge in its usual caresses, after it had become rabid, it licked this pimple, of which the surface was exposed, and thus she acquired the dis- ease of hydrophobia, of which she died. Wounds are not all equally effective in conveying the poi- son. In the first place, a person may be bitten on a part co- vered with clothes, or on'a naked portion of the body. In the former case the teeth of the animal are in a manner wiped, or cleaned, by passing through the cloth, and thus the virulent matter may be removed from the teeth before they reach the body. In this manner a great proportion of the bites that are inflicted through covered parts of the body are unattended with bad consequences. Animals, too, are not all equally effective in communicating the disease; the effects from the bite of the dog are much the most virulent, and hence rabies canina, as it is called, is much the most frequent. There is a case on record in which one dog bit four persons and twelve dogs. All the dogs acquired hydrophobia, while the four human subjects escaped it, though they took no pre- caution, and employed no kind of treatment. In one instance, in which twenty persons were bitten by a single dog, only one of them had hydrophobia. There are other instances, however, in which the bad effects have been observed to be in a much greater proportion than this. Twenty-three individuals were bitten by a female wolf; thirteen of them died in the course of a few weeks, besides several cows that were wounded by the same animal. In another case, in which ten individuals were bitten by a wolf, nine died ; these were cases that occurred in France. Of twenty-four bitten by the same kind of animal, near Rochelle, eighteen died. There is nothing peculiar in the mode of healing, or the pro- gress, of a wound inflicted by a rabid animal; the injury goes through the natural process, just as a simple wound would proceed, and it heals without our being able to distinguish any difference in it. An interval of time elapses between the infliction of the wound and the occurrence of the symptoms, or the disease itself—the madness. In this respect the hydrophobia corre- sponds with small-pox, with cow-pox, with scarlet fever, with measles, and with syphilis; there is not, however, in hydro- phobia, any correctly defined and regular period between the receipt of the wound and the appearance of the disease, as in several instances I have mentioned ; though hydrophobia certainly resembles syphilis more than the others, in which