311 EFFECTS OF MERCURY. about the prsecordia, an irregular action of the heart, a slow and frequently intermittent pulse, general coldness of the sur- face, a paleness and contorted state of the countenance. These symptoms were particularly described by the late Mr. Pearson, who has devoted a chapter to them—chapter the twelfth, in his work entitled “ Observations on some Articles in the Materia Medica for the Treatment of Syphilis.” He calls this state ere- tbismus :—erethismus is a Greek word, something equivalent to irritation. He says, that at the Lock Hospital, of which he was surgeon, he had observed that, occasionally, persons died suddenly, without having been previously ill, or without his being able to ascribe the death to any particular cause. He was hence led to pay particular attention to persons who were under a mercurial course ; and he found that symptoms such as 1 have described were occasionally produced ; and that, in this depressed condition of the circulation and of the general powers, a slight degree of exertion, such as walking across the ward, would suddenly prove fatal. I myself once saw a very marked instance of this kind. It occurred in the person of a physician, who is well known by his works—I mean the late Or. Bateman. He took mercury in consequence of an amau- rotic affection ; he was of a delicate nature, and this peculiar effect upon the heart and respiratory organs was produced in him in a very extensive and alarming degree ; so much so, in- deed, as to bring him to a state of great danger. Although the mercury had not acted seriously on the mouth, nor produced sores, the action of the heart became so irregular, and the ac- tion of the respiratory organs was so interrupted, that, for five or six weeks, his life was in the greatest danger. Mr. Pearson observes, that the best remedies in this affection are, first, free exposure to the air; secondly, medicines of a cordial or stimulating kind, and a good generous diet, animal food, wine, and other fermented liquors. These seem obvi- ously calculated to rouse the drooping powers of the circulating system, and the whole of the animal economy. In point of fact, he says, that such means are found to be the best calcu- lated to remove the symptoms I have mentioned. I recollect that, in the case of Dr. Bateman, the person whom I have just mentioned, although he was very little given to the use of fer- mented liquors, he found it necessary to take wine, and even brandy, also jellies, and animal food even in a concentrated state. When such symptoms appear to be coming on, the ex- hibition of volatile alkali, with the camphor mixture, I believe to be the best remedy, and, of course, the employment of mer- cury is immediately to be discontinued; and supposing the pa- tient be in an hospital, he must be removed from the mercurial