VENEREAL DISEASE. 360 suckling. I gave her mercury in a moderate way. Her own child, which had taken the right breast, continued well; which was a singular circumstance. She had been suckling it for some weeks, at the same time that she nursed the diseased child, and though she was affected with constitutional syphilis, her own child did not suffer at all. By means of the remedies employed, both the child and nurse got better. After a time, she passed the child on to another woman; she did not choose to go on suckling it any longer, and the child seemed tolerably well when the other nurse was engaged for it. I had first seen the child in February, and I saw it again in April. It was then mentioned that the child had been sent to another nurse, and that, a week before, a few small brown patches appeared on the anus and about the face, and that some discharge took place. The nurse’s nipples had become sore, but it was a mere common excoriation. The nurse that I first saw, had then fresh appearances of a scaly eruption ; the nipple to which the disease was originally communicated was well. On the 18tb of July the second nurse called, to shew me a sore on the breast; it was without granulation, about the size of a shilling, and had existed three weeks, not having been checked by the applications that were used. The child that had given her the disease had died of the measles, before I saw the woman on this occasion. On the 20th of July, this second nurse had a small reddish eruption thickly scattered over the hands, especially on the palms. On the 24th the eruption was more marked, and spread over the hand, running half way over the fore-arm. She took mercury, and the symptoms disap- peared ; the sore on the mamma and the eruption went off. The second nurse was delivered of a fine healthy infant, about the 2d of April, 1828 ; and this child was brought to me on the 20th July, covered with syphilitic eruption from head to foot. It consisted simply of r£d patches, principally on the body, with the cuticle peeling off. Those on the hands and fingers, and on the organs of generation, were deep red, and partly excoriated. The lips were chapped and scaly. This child was emaciated and fretful, and was fed by the hand, the mo- ther having no milk. The child got well, but the mother died of phthisis. Here you see there was a child giving the syphilitic disease to a healthy woman that nursed it; at the same time her own child, which was kept to the right breast, had no disease. The woman—that is, the nurse,—bad a primary sore on the breast, and an affection of the absorbent glands, eruption over certain parts of the body, and appearances on the external organs of generation similar to what we should recognise as a primary