TREATMENT OF ABSCESS. 149 -.the covering of the snake, which separates annually from the -surface of its body ; in short, slough denotes tbe portion that :bas perished, and is thrown off from the body. Mortification consists in a cessation of the living action, or, one may say, more particularly, in the cessation of the circula- tion in a part. The consequence of this is, that that portion ,Joses its heat, its sensibility, its power of motion, its natural colour, and becomes black or livid, brown or bluish, or it ..assumes various combinations of those tints of colour. When this cessation of vital movement has taken place, the part then jundergoes spontaneous or chemical changes ; the textures that ^compose it become softened. Very commonly the part, at the time of mortification, contains an abundance of fluid ; all its .vessels are replete. Those fluids, and the solids with which :they are in contact, undergo chemical changes, and the tex- tures of the body become reduced into a pulpy, putrid mass, .which is exceedingly offensive. Gas is generated and dis- charged from the interstices of a part which is thus changed. . In other circumstances, there are changes exactly the reverse ■of these ; there is a drying, a shrinking, and a shrivelling up of the part, which, instead of putrefying, goes into a state in whicn you might preserve it; you might hang it up in the air, jind it will remain in the same state for several years without undergoing any particular alteration. Now these are two very distinct changes, both of which are called mortification, and the difference could not escape tbe notice of the most common observer; hence you will find, from the writings of the early authors, that the former is called .gangrena humida, and the dry, gangrena sicca. These differ- ences are nearly equivalent to the distinction into acute and chronic gangrene ; for the humid is that which takes place from actual inflammation of a part, leaving it with all its vessels full of fluids; the others occurs in a slow, insidious way. Nearly all parts of the body are liable to mortification ; !I believe we may say all, but all are not equally liable. ■ Cellular membrane is said to be the most prone to mortification. 'Skin, perhaps, although much less subject, may come next in orders The blood-vessels resist mortification longer than any other textures; and, in cases of extensive mortifica- tion, near the trunks of large vessels, you will often find that those trunks remain nearly unchanged when all the surround- ing tissues have perished. This mention of the resistance of blood-vessels to the process of mortification, leads me to observe to you, that the blood ■ which is contained in those vessels becomes coagulated in the neighbourhood of the mortified part, and even to some distance