TETANUS. OOQ been from the employment of active aperients, in alternation with antispasmodics, particularly opium; that the cases have done best in which powerful opening medicines have been em- ployed from time to time, so as to keep up a continued action on the bowels, and to prevent the recurrence of that state of costiveness in which the disease is generally found to com- mence; and, at the same time, that opium has been em- ployed to mitigate the severity of the spasms. In many cases, a successful result has been secured by acting steadily on this plan. The three objects of treatment, then, on which I myself should place reliance, are first, venesection in the early stage, until the symptoms of general fulness of the vascular system are removed ; secondly, the free exhibition of aperients, so as to remove costiveness; and, thirdly, the employment of opium, for the purpose of lessening, or controlling, the very painful spasms. About three or four years ago, I was called to a case of tetanus, in which there was very great danger, and where the plan of treatment 1 have just mentioned to you, was com- pletely successful, although the case, at the first view, seemed a very unpromising one. It was the case of a gentleman who was about fifty years of age, of a very robust and full habit, accustomed to free living, a man of a very active turn of mind and who had various and important businesses on his hands. He was pursuing his avocations in a very active way at the time he met with the accident that led to the tetanus, which occurred in the hottest season of the year. He was riding, when, his horse having fallen, he was thrown forward, and his face coming to the ground, he grazed the dorsum of his nose against the gravel of the road, so as to make a slight wound there; that was the only actual wound he received. He thought so little of the accident, that he did not discontinue bis ordinary pursuits, nor change his ordinary mode of living, which was, as I said, rather a free one. I do not know that he did more than put a bit of brown paper, with vinegar, on the grazed part. However, although the injury was very slight, yet, at the end of about ten days, when the wound was just getting well, on sitting down to dinner, having asked some friends to dine with him on that day, he felt that he could not use his jaw very freely; be felt some difficulty in masticating, and swallowing his food. He was at length induced, more in con- formity to the solicitations of his friends, than in accordance with his own feelings, to send for a medical gentleman, who took a little blood, and gave him some opening medicine. Next day he was very much worse, and I, consequently, saw him. At this time the symptoms of tetanus were very manifest.