4-2 NATURE AND CLASSIFICATION OF DISEASES. comparatively, few in which direct information is afforded ; and though, in those cases, the information is of a very im- portant kind, the general doctrines of treatment have been derived from experience during life, and not from the observa- tion of any facts after death. When we examine the symptoms of disease, and pay particular attention to those changes pro- duced in the affected parts—to the primary or local changes, we are led to distinguish one disease from others which might resemble it; we are led to distinguish the disease of a par- ticular organ from diseases of contiguous organs. That is, we make the distinction—we establish what is technically called the diagnosis between the particular disease, and any others that may, in point of nature or situation, bear a great affinity to it. This part of the inquiry, is called diagnosis, and the par- ticular signs or symptoms we dwell on, in making our dis- tinctions, are called the diagnostic signs. When you are called to a case, you will find the patient and his friends extremely anxious about his situation. They will wish to know whether he will recover or die ; whether he will recover completely, or partially; how long the disease will last; how soon he will be able to resume his usual occupation, and so forth. These inquiries are very natural, and though you may fin'd them troublesome in some instances, I should hope you will be inclined always to answer them with kind- ness* and patience. You must make allowances for the anxiety of friends, and you must not allow yourselves to be betrayed into any thing like hastiness or ill temper under such circumstances. This is a point which is one of policy, us well as of good feeling. Few persons can properly estimate professional skill, but all are able to appreciate kindness and attention. When you compare the state of a patient under your imme- diate observation, with all you know from other quarters respecting the nature, progress, and effects of disease and treatment in particular cases, you are able to prognosticate or predict the course and event of the disease, in the case under consideration; and that, considered as a division of pathology, is called prognosis. Then, having surveyed the case in this way, you are naturally led to the means by which diseases may be arrested, or safely conducted to their termination. Those means fall under three divisions, which I have already alluded to; viz. the manage- ment of those external influences which contribute to the restoration of health; such as diet, air, exercise, clothing, sleeping, and walking, which heretofore have been called by the strange name of non-nalurals ; the application of pharma-