8 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. may truly say, with Mr. Abernethy, that surgery and physic considered as objects of scientific investigation, are one and indivisible. We may go further, and assert that no branch of medicine, however limited, can be thoroughly understood ex- cept by him who has carefully studied the structure and actions of the whole frame, and then extended his view over the whole field of medical science. By those who are inclined to defend the existing distinctions between physic and surgery, various views have been taken of it; but none of them will bear examination. Internal dis- eases have been assigned to the former, external to the latter. Unfortunately for this notion, nature has connected the outside and inside so closely, that we can hardly say where one ends and the other begins. She has decreed that both shall obey the same pathological laws, and has subjected them to such powerful, mutual influences, that we cannot stir a step in in- vestigating the diseases of either, without reference to the other. How deep would the domain of surgery extend, ac- cording to this view ? Half an inch or an inch? The entrance of the various mucous membranes, presents a series of puzzling cases : and the distribution of diseases in these situations, between the two branches of the profession, is quite capricious. How far is the surgeon to be trusted ? He is allowed to take care of the mouth: where is he to stop ? at the entrance of the fauces, in the pharynx, or in the (esophagus? Inflammation and ulceration of the throat from syphilis belong to the sur- geon ; catarrhal affection of the same membrune to the physi- cian. Polypus and ulceration of the nasal membrane are sur- gical; coryza is medical. The affections of the bones and joints have been given to the surgeon ; yet they can hardly be called external parts. In hernia and aneurism there is exter- nal tumour ; but it is produced by displacement or disease of organs that are quite internal. When we look to the nature and causes of disease, the ab- surdity of the distinction now under consideration is still more apparent, and the inseparable connexion between the interior and exterior of our frame more obvious. Internal causes pro- duce external diseases, as we see in erysipelas, carbuncle, nettle rash, gout, oedema; while external agencies affect inward parts, as in catarrhal rheumatic affections, and various inflammations of the chest and abdomen from exposure to cold. In all these affections, our great reliance is on the internal treatment; external and local means are compara- tively unimportant. The eyes have been entrusted to the surgeon as external parts : yet the organ is the most complicated in the body ; and