190 ULCERATION. I have mentioned to you that this sort of ulcer occurs generally in women of the town, under the particular circum- stances I have stated ; but it is by no means confined to cases which might originally be supposed to have been venereal. I remember a very particular case of this nature, under the care of my colleague, Dr. Latham. I was requested to see it, on account of the sloughing phagedena, it was the case of a young woman who had had small-pox very severely ; and towards the close of the attack, which had rendered her very weak, came on diarrhoea. There was also a considerable dis- charge from the vagina, and considerable excoriation about the nates; thus the surface of the nates became highly inflamed. In the end, a large excoriation of the character of phagedenic ulceration, formed in each buttock; the patient was almost reduced to death’s door. Dr. Latham asked me to see her, not with a view of doing her any good, for she seemed to be so reduced, that, in his opinion, nothing could be done for her. I thought, also, when I saw the case, very badly of it. There were these two large sores on the buttocks, and a copious dis- charge, but they were treated by the nitric acid as 1 have stated. She had port-wine and quinine allowed her very liberally, and she did perfectly well. This was a case in which the cause was quite of a common kind, and in which you could not ascribe the occurrence, even remotely, to syphilitic disease. As far as I can understand, hospital gangrene is essentially the same as the sloughing phagedena I have described. This is the affection generally called, by the French, pourrilure tl' hospital Hospital sores, putrid or malignant ulcers, these are terms made use of by those who have observed the disease in the military and naval services. They imply an unhealthy condition consequent on wounds, whether from operations or not, occurring in certain situations, such as hospitals, prisons, ships, and so forth, where individuals are crowded together in considerable numbers, particularly under circumstances of high temperature, and where, consequently, the apartments cannot be well ventilated. It appears to be, therefore, an unhealthy state of ulceration induced by the local influence of a vitiated atmosphere upon the sore. We find that the crowding toge- ther of individuals, in this way, has a most powerful effect in producing it, without our being able to account for the mode in which it does produce it. Now, in an hospital in this town, where there was a ward capable of containing twenty patients, it would sometimes happen, from the hospital being crowded, that a few more than twenty would be put into this ward, this was done repeatedly; and it was observed that, if ever the number of patients was increased to twenty-four or