108 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION ; during an artificial new disease, in order to lessen that which already exists; and this principle is called counter-irritation. Sometimes it is called revulsion. CouDter-irritation means merely, opposed or opposite irritation; that is, an irritation opposed to that which exists. Revulsion is from the Latin word revello—to draw away—under the notion that the new inflam- mation of parts forcibly draws away that which previously existed. Derivation is sometimes applied under a similar no- tion. Derivation means—drainiug off in a stream. Thus when leeches are applied to a part, they are said to afford a deriva- tion ; that is, to draw off the fluids from the inflamed part to the outlets, which are produced by their application. Thus counter-irritation, derivation, and revulsion, are words of ana- logy, meaning pretty much the same thing, and that which is most commonly accomplished by means of what we call blis- ters. But they are not the only means of accomplishing the purpose. It has, of late, been proposed by Sir Anthony Car- lisle, to produce the effect intended by means of a piece of metal dipped into water of a given temperature. You know that the application of boiling water to the skin, will blister just as much as the ointment made with the Spanish fly. The liquor ammonia, when applied in its pure state, will produce blistering; and either the liquor ammonite, therefore, or boiling water, may be applied, when you want to produce the effect instantly ; for the action of a blister, with a Spanish fly, takes some hours. In order that we may have a chance of reducing existing diseases by this means, it is necessary that the new irritation be more powerful than that already existing. In a case of active inflammation in its full development, which has not been checked, the disease cannot be stopped by blisters; they will only add to the irritation, and increase the patient’s suffering. Blistering, then, is not to be employed while local irritation is at its height, but after depletion and the other means already described have mitigated the local disturbance, this will assist in its removal. Blisters, then, may be applied when inflammation has con- tinued some time, and when jou suspect it is going into the chronic stage. Jt has been said, they are also applicable when you wish to recall inflammation towards a part in which it has previously existed, but which it has quitted, in order to fix in some other place; such examples of removal of the disease you find occurring chiefly in gout and rheumatism. It may be doubtful how far this priuciple can be rendered of practical utility. In such cases, that is, if the inflammation of gout or rheumatism should have passed from external parts to internal organs, you will, probably, find it is best to attack the infiam-