179 ULCERATION. stance of the limb, then the process of healing does not take place at all hastily, it will remain a long time fistulous, and there is great difficulty in bringing it into the healing state, so that a certain degree of external exposure is necessary for bringing it into this condition. When I say a certain degree of external exposure is necessary, you are not to understand that the part is to be left open to the air, I mean that the body should be exposed in its surfaces. If it is on the exterior of the body, it must be left exposed with respect to its internal surface, but you must protect it from the external air and all those dis- turbances which are likely to interfere with the process of healiDg. With respect to the varieties of ulceration, their various mo- difications, and different treatment, we must postpone that subject until the next lecture. LECTURE XV. Ulceration. We observe numerous and important modifications in the character and progress of ulcers, which necessarily require cor- responding differences in treatment. Ulcers may be divided, in the first place, into common and specific; the latter, such as those of a carcinomatous, syphilitic, and scrofulous kind, will be considered in other parts of the Course; but even the common ulcers, that is, those which arise from ordinary causes in constitutions otherwise healthy, are by no means uniform in their appearance or progress. The character of an ulcer in its progress tosvards healing, is often modified by its position in the body. Thus, ulcers that are situated on the trunk, that is near to the centre of circulation, heal more quickly thau those on the extremities; and those which occur on the upper limbs, more quickly than those on the lower limbs, the dependent position of the lower extremities being unfavourable to the return of the venous blood. The general state of health exerts considerable influence over the progress of ulcers ; thus, the appearance of a sore is a tolerably good criterion of the state of the health of the individual in whom it occurs. If a per- son with an ulcer is seized with fever, you will quickly find a very important change in the state of that ulcer. A healthy ulcer is one in which the curative process is going on favour- N 2