34S VENEREAL DISEASE ; organs, and considerable pain in the limbs and joints. This, in fact, is a rather more active inflammatory disturbance of the system, than that which is observed in the scaly venereal dis- ease ; although I may observe to you, that the appearance of constitutional symptoms of syphilis, whatever form they may assume, is usually preceded by more or less of febrile consti- tutional disturbance. The symptoms that 1 havejustmentioned to you of course require a pretty active antiphlogistic treat- ment ; sometimes venesection, at all events active purging, and the administration of saline and anlitnonial medicines af- terwards, low diet and rest; and they neither require, nor are they benefited in the active inflammatory stage, by the employ- ment of mercury. Indeed, this papular venereal eruption will go through a certain course mucli like the other active inflam- mations of the skin, the small-pox, measles, &c. The pimples very commonly vesicate, or form a little pus at the point, the inflammation then subsides, the vesication dries up, a little desquamation takes place, and the inflammation entirely dis- appears. You may have a succession of these pimples; you may have patches of them forming on various parts of the body, and you may have some difficulty in removing them ; however, the progress of the complaint leads to a natural ces- sation ultimately. The eruption comes to an end of itselfoften, independently of the employment of any particular means: you watch the symptoms, and you hasten their termination by the antiphlogistic treatment suited to the state of the system. There is no necessity for the employment of mercury generally in these cases, except towards the decline of the aflection, and then you sometimes accelerate the cure by the moderate em- ployment of it—by the blue pill, or Plummer’spill,in moderate doses. This form does uot, like the former shape of the affec- tion, require the regular and active administration of mercury. I may observe to you, however, that when iritis occurs, which it often does, in conjunction with the papular eruption, and in conjunction also with the scaly eruption, that it then usually requires a considerable and pretty active administration of mercury, within the space of a short time: this is a point, however, that 1 shall have occasion to advert to more particu- larly when I come to treat of affections of the eye. A third well-marked form of the ulcerative venereal disease is that which Mr. Carmichael calls the phagedenic form, where the primary form has the phagedenic character, and where the affection of the skin in the secondary stage consists of tubercles, which proceed to ulcerations, and which form ulcerations pos- sessing also the phagedenic character—spreading by phagede- nic margins, where the sore throat is of the same character, ex-