HYDROPHOBIA. 239 without this disease having made its appearance. Thus it is mentioned, by Mr. John Hunter, ‘that in Jamaica, where the number of dogs is great, no case of hydrophobia has been iknown to take place for forty years. And the mention of Jamaica induces me to state to you, that the observation that heat favours the production of the disease, is by no means well bounded. It has been supposed that hydrophobia can take place only during the hot period of the year, but this is not by any means the case. 1 recollect a case of hydrophobia in this hos- pital, which was under my own care. The patient was exces- sively thirsty, but could not take any fluid, on account of the spasms which attend the complaint; and I got some ice, for it was in the winter-time, and the child took that into its mouth, and ate it with great avidity. It was a mode of, in some mea- sure, allaying the thirst, without exciting the violent spasms which take place from the appearance of water. Hydrophobia is said to be rare in the West Indies, although the dogs are numerous. Heretofore it is remarkable that hy- drophobia did not exist in Egypt; and the French observed, .during their residence there in their last campaign, that the complaint was not known either in the canine or in the human species. We have every reason, then, for supposing that it does mot originate spontaneously in the dog. May it not, however, .originate spontaneously in the human being? As far as we have the means of judging, we may answer in the negative, lit is true that an ^version to water, something like the symp- toms which occur in hydrophobia, is seen to take place in other diseases—something like the spasmodic action of the muscles about the throat. In fact, there is a kind of sympathetic hy- drophobia, which may consist of a disease of a uervous kind, combined with some other affection; but when we speak of the hydrophobia which is distinguished by the term rabies, we certainly are aware of its existence only in those cases in which the (poison has been introduced into the system through the ^medium of a wound. The animals liable to hydrophobia, besides individuals of the human subject, are, the dog, the wolf, the fox, the cat, and the ordinary domestic herbiverous animals ; that is, the horse, the ass, the mule, the cow, the sheep, the pig, and 1 suppose I may say, the goat. 1 believe it is not communicable to birds. Perhaps other animals, besides those I have just mentioned, may be susceptible of it; but experiments have not been made to communicate it to them, and they are not of themselves placed under circumstances which would lead them to contract the disease in the manner of other animals. I believe the disease can only be communicated by the dog,