18 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE practice, and the active duties of your profession; and you will therefore sec the necessity of improving, with the greatest dili- gence, the opportunities of information that you now possess, and which you will never be able to recall. Let me observe, at the same time, that among all the various objects which can engage the human mind, there is no better exercise of the intellectual faculties, no more attractive and interesting pur- suit, than the study of the medical profession; for while its practice has the most salutary moral tendency of repressing selfishness, and calling forth and strengthening all the benevo- lent and social feelings, our studies embrace all the most interesting parts of natural knowledge. Our first and imme- diate object is to learn the construction of our own frame, the means by which we live, and move, and have our being: we see the nature and operation of those influences by which health is interrupted and restored, by which disease and suffer- ing may be averted. Chemistry, natural philosophy, and natural history, auxiliary sciences, are more or less immedi- ately connected with the primary objects of our pursuits. Thus we are led to the contemplation and study of nature, and the investigation of truth. We arc not called upon to defend any doctrines or systems, or to uphold any set of opinions. We have no interest at variance with those of the community. In professional intercourse with our fellow creatures, we are known only as instruments of good; in restoring or securing health, the greatest of blessings ; in removing pain and sickness, the greatest of evils; in soothing the acute anguish, and quieting the alarm which friends and relations feel for each other; in protracting the approach of that awful moment, from which we all shrink back with instinctive dread, the termination of existence. The happiness or misery of life, and the very question of life or death, often hang on our decisions. I trust that, bearing in mind the serious nature of those duties, you will be anxious to employ the short period of your studies to the greatest advantage, and allow no opportunity of gaining knowledge to pass unimproved; you will thus become re- spected members of an honourable profession, and prepare for yourselves, in the decline of life, the sweetest of all rewards— the retrospect of labours devoted to the good of others.