FORMATION OF ABSCESS. 127 *i:nd that the interior of the abscess presents the appearauce of i < dense textufe, that has been compared, and not very inaptly, »> that of a mucous membrane. It is reddish in colour, firm, Compact, and tolerably uniform in structure. This kind of Membranous structure constitutes what we technically call the Avails or parietes, the sides, the sac, or the cyst, of an abscess. Ian fact, if this part, with the matter it contains, were dissected :.ut, the abscess would then present a bag or cyst. The inter- nal surface of this cyst is in contact with the matter which the libscess contains. To the external surface, the surrounding cellular membrane, and other parts in which the abscess is ormed, are closely adherent, being condensed—rendered pre- tcematurally firm in texture by the inflammatory process. This aondensation extends to a greater or less degree around the ab- scess, until it gradually passes into the natural textures of the surrounding parts. In the early stage of the formation of pus, : ±ere is a considerable portion of this condensed or hardened surface surrounding the cyst of the abscess; but in proportion as the collection of pus increases, the surrounding hardness bbecomes less in extent. The parietes, or walls, or cyst of the .abscess, are obviously caused by a condensation of the cellular •texture of the part, in consequence of the effusion of lymph into it under the inflammatory action. The inflammatory dis- turbance which proceeds to the length of suppuration in the centre of the inflamed part, produces the effect of interstitial deposition in the circumference. In the language of Mr. Hunter, the inflammation in the centre is suppurative inflam- mation, and the inflammation in the surrounding part is ad- hesive inflammation. The cyst, which is thus formed, consti- tutes a natural barrier, which contains the pus which insulates and separates it from the surrounding textures. If it were not ■ for this barrier, the pus would be disseminated in the cellular structure round the part in which it is deposited, and, like serum in anasarca, might pass extensively over the whole of the limb for example. The condensation of the cellular tex- ture around the inflammatory process, presents this extension, which would otherwise take place; it confines the change to the part in which it has immediately occurred. The pus, which is contained in An abscess formed under these circumstances, is thick, homogeneous, and generally of a whitish colour. When I say it is thick, I mean it is equal in thickness to the thickest kind of cream, and sometimes, in fact, it is more so, coming near to the consistency of a soft solid, such as butter. Generally speaking, the higher degree of in- flammation, the thicker the pus which is produced by it. This is the kind of pus pathologists have called good pus—laudable