53 LECTURE V. On Inflammation;—its general Phenomena and Divisions. In the last lecture, gentlemen, I alluded to the fact, that the vessels in an inflamed part, when examined after death, were found so much filled with blood as to make it appear that they were actually more numerous. Now, I should have entered rather more particularly on that occasion into a consideration of the appearances which inflamed parts generally exhibit after death. Under such circumstances, we find that all the tex- tures are preternaturally red, and that the number of blood- vessels in the part seems to have increased, while they are all turgid with blood:—at the same time interstitial deposition is observed to have taken place in the structures generally. When we come to examine the parts, they appear firmer than natural, notwithstanding which we find that they are more easily lacerated, and more readily give way under the application of any force, so that in point of fact the effect of the inflammatory process is to diminish the natural cohesion or firmness of the part affected ; and this is found to be the general result of the disease taken in its active period. This particular result is often seen in the brain, where a very pecu- liar softening takes place, described by the French under the name ramollissement—a softening which was originally ob- served without any reference to the cause which produced it. This result had been noticed by various pathologists, but they attributed to other causes that softening of the brain, which accurate examination has proved to be merely a change de- pendent on inflammation. You will probably inquire, what is the deposition which takes place into the textures of the inflamed part, and produces this firmness to the touch after death ? In answer to that in- quiry, it is generally stated, that the new substance thus depo- sited is lymph—coagulating lymph, or, as it is sometimes called, eoagulablc lymph. It is stated to be nearly the same substance as the fibrin of the blood, viz., that whitish and tough part which is seen after washing away the red particles from the crassamentum. It is said to be completely analogous to the white bufl'y coat which is seen on the surface of the crassa- mentum, when the blood is drawn from a patient labouring UDder inflammation.