CAUSES AND EFFECTS OF INFLAMMATION. 69 person of gouty habit, arthritic inflammation may come on, and even frustrate the intention of the operator. If it is performed on a person of plethoric habit, without means having been adopted to prepare him, an attack of common inflammation may be the result, and which may have the same effect. With respect to other causes—that is, the application of cold and moisture, or the excessive exertion of the organ itself —they do not act invariably so as to produce inflammation, but they do so under certain circumstances. A considerable number of individuals may be exposed to the action of either cause, and in many of them no kind of apparent result takes place—but still a certain proportion of them suffer from it. For instance : you may have a considerable number of persons exposed to cold, wind, rain, or snow, and the greater number of these shall not suffer any injurious consequences at all; but perhaps one out of the number may have a sore-throat pro- duced, another may have an attack of catarrh, a third of rheu- matism. A number of persons may sit down to a feast, and perhaps only one individual out of the whole will experience an attack of apoplexy or palsy. A person who i3 in good health receives a slight blow on the foot, or a slight twist of the ankle, and, with the exception of the temporary inconve- nience that is produced, be experiences no further injury; but if either of these circumstances happen to a person of gross habit, be, perhaps, has an attack of the gout brought on in the part. Thus we have to consider not merely the causes, but the state of the individual to whom they are applied; and this brings us to the distinction I have already pointed out between the direct or immediate, and the remote or predisposing causes. The direct or immediate, in many individuals, will not produce disease, unless the individual shall have been pre- pared for its action, by the effect of the remote or predisposing cause. Under the head of remote, or predisposing causes to inflam- mation or diseases of any kind, we may enumerate the natural peculiarities of organization which belong to individuals. All mankind are not constructed alike. There are differences in organization ; there are consequent differences in the functions executed by the organs, and hence the state of health, which is a state of exertion in the functions of all the organs, will present a variety in each individual. If we look throughout the whole of the works of nature, we see that it appears to be her object everywhere to produce variety. Nature, if we may personify her, seems to have nothing of the quaker taste ; she takes no delight in uniformity of colour or shape. She has