BLEEDING. 97 as I have already said ; yet the blood spouted out most vigo- | :rously from the opening when it was made, and then flowed -.very freely (in cases of inflammation when the blood runs j: freely, I go on till it stops, for that is the only way to do good ;) and 1 got a large vessel, intending to make her faint, for I j ■ thought if it produced that effect upon her it would stop the in- ;flammatory process. But, to my astonishment, she did not ;: faint, and the blood proceeded pouring out of the arm in a vigo- i. rous stream, without running over the integuments; till at . last I stopped, because the quantity taken was so considerable. HI had the blood weighed, and it was found to be three pounds . —that is 48 ounces. I believe it was an ounce or two more : ; and yet this large evacuation did not make the young woman j:faint. Now, that single venesection cured her; she was well from that time; all the symptoms were removed; she bad no further symptom whatever indicating inflammation of the chest. :She was kept very quiet for two or three days, took opening medicines, and was restricted to a low diet; but really I may ssay she required no further treatment but that single vene- section. In those cases in which there is sympathetic inflammatory : fever, that is, in which the digestive organs are disturbed, in -.which the secretions are suspended, it is found that when the secretions are restored, and when the natural action of the di- .gestive organs comes back, the fever is diminished or stopped ; and thus it is said, that the restoration of the natural secretions Sand action of the alimentary canal, remove the fever. Perhaps it might be more correct to say, that those secretions return, because the fever is removed. However, proceeding on the analogy, many persons say, Do not bleed people who are so situated ; attempt to reproduce those secretions ; give aperient medicines, endeavour to make the bowels act, give medicines ithat will reproduce the natural discharge from the skin, and tthus you will get rid of the fever. Now the truth is, if you come to read the history of cases treated in that way, you will . find, that one, two, three, and sometimes four days, are em- ployed, in efforts of this kind ; purgative medicines are given, •which do not act at all; diaphoretics are administered, which iproduce no secretions from the skin—the local inflammation .goes on increasing, the general disturbance gets worse and worse, till at last, more, I suppose, by the efforts of nature than by those of the physician or surgeon, relief is obtained. Now ■ it seems to me that the treatment of inflammation by direct i depletion, appears under great advantage, when contrasted with this mode of proceeding. If you take a large quantity of blood from the system, you produce immediate and decided H