324 VENEREAL DISEASE; sential point in this disease any more than it has changed in any other. I cannot help calling to mind the short but pithy remark of a great critic of antiquity— “ Opinionum commenta delet dies, Naturae judicia confirmat.” That is— “ Time destroys the fictions of opinion, But confirms the decisions of nature.” Now, when 1 see the fanciful speculations, and the contra- dictory statements and views which make up so lsrge a part of Mr. Hunter's treatise on this disease, I cannot help classing it among the “ opinionum commenta?' I am sure ii does not belong to the “ nature: judicia." The induration whieh accompanies venereal sores is of dif- ferent kinds. In the first place, there may be a small and moderate induration; there may be a considerable mass of hardness, presenting a cartilaginous character, so that when you feel the part under your finger, it seems as if you w'ere feeling a bit of cartilage, and the ulceration is seated upon that indurated part; sometimes it happens that this cartilaginous induration remains after the healing of the ulceration; and, sometimes, such an induration will take place at a remote period, after the cessation of the symptoms, without ulceration; it will come on as a kind of secondary appearance. I saw a gen- tleman who had previously had two or three small sores which healed, under the moderate use of mercury, in three weeks. In three weeks more, without any fresh infection, an ulceration, with induration, formed at the basis of the prepuce ; the indu- ration was equal in size to a horsebean; the ulceration was about equal to the size of a split pea. He took blue pill, and applied mercurial ointment; the sore was healed in a fortnight; the induration was reduced to a third in a month, and had dis- appeared entirely in another month. This happened about two years ago, and the gentleman has continued well since, I re- member the case of a medical gentleman who consulted me for obstinate venereal sores which healed, and after they healed he married. In a year afterwards, a large hard lump (equal to the size of the last joint of the little finger), of a bright-red colour, came on the prepuce, with a few scaly eruptions on the head ; they were secondary symptoms, and were permanently cured by mercury. It is not uncommon to see indurations of that kind come on at rather a remote period after the occur- rence of the primary syphilitic symptoms. The fourth kind of ulceration I have to mention to you is the phagedenic primary sore, a primary sore presenting those cha-