178 ON REPRODUCTION. Treatment.—With respect to the treatment of ulcers, under the circumstances I have now mentioned to you: in the first place it is necessary to remove that inflammatory disturbance on which the commencement and the progress of ulceration depend ; and, together with other measures that are necessary for that purpose, you will probably find it expedient to cover the part with a soft poultice. When the inflammatory disturb- ance is at an end, and when the process of reproduction has commenced, really the surgeon has not a great deal to do; nature performs the restoration, and it is enough, perhaps, if we take care not to do any thing that can interrupt her opera- tions. The part must be kept at rest, and it must be covered in such a way as to protect it from any of the external influ- ences that might be injurious to it. It should be covered with a soft poultice, made of bread or linseed; and when the process of granulation is somewhat advanced, this should be replaced by simple dressing, such as soft tent or lint covered with simple cerate or any unctuous application, and confined with a bandage. This is pretty much of what is necessary in point of treatment, in the case of ulcers generally ; and thus treat- ment turns, as you see, on two points; first on removing the inflammation, which is the cause of the ulceration; and.next, in keeping the part and the patient quiet, while nature is per- forming the process of reparation. In respect to the latter point, I believe I need not observe to you, (for it is a rule that belongs to the treatment of all cases,) that you must pay such attention to the diet as will tend to keep the patient in the best possible state of health. I should have mentioned to you, in speaking of the process of granulation, that a certain degree of exposure of the surface to the air, is necessary for its commencement, and its success- ful prosecution. The surface of an entire abscess does not granulate; but when that abscess comes to the surface of the body, and when it has been opened or exposed by the natural process of bursting, granulations will commence in it. It will never begin to granulate while it is entire. In the same way fistula, or sinuses, will not cure while they are entire. But if we slit up the fistula, so as to make an external surface, gra- nulation then commences; and when it does this we find it necessary to keep the part moist by a soft dressing, in order to prevent it from uniting at the sides before it unites at the bottom. Hence we find that when abscesses extend deeply, they heal much more slowly and difficultly than when they are seated superficially. If an abscess is just under the skin, after it has broken, or you have punctured it, it heals in a very short time; but if part of it is seated deeply in the sub-