ANTIMONY, MERCURY, DIET, ETC. 107 r.o cases of determination of blood to that part. If we apply icold spring water in a bladder, and Tenew it, we shall find that l~.be temperature of the bead will soon be much reduced. Even vwhen considerable excitement exists, the patient will begin to itSnd the cold very uncomfortable, and wish it to be removed ; n fact, it soon produces such pain that he cannot endure it longer. An aged patient requires warmth ; and there are vtnany instances where warm applications are found more bene- ficial, as well as more comfortable to the feelings of the patient, ■ ahan cold ones, and we are of course accustomed to accommo- date the remedies employed, as ftiuch as we can, to their feel- ings and wishes. For this purpose we use warm fomentations, K flannels dipped in warm water, sometimes in medicated ater; these being laid upon the affected part, and renewed ■as required. When fomentations are applied to a considerable {■surface of the body, as the chest, and decoction of poppies or l camomile flowers are employed, they may be put into a rough dowel, and laid upon the part. They will thus produce warmth ;iand general perspiration over the whole frame. There is no '.invariable rule which we can lay down for the choice of warm or cold applications; but we may say generally, that cold is 'best in superficial inflammation and in the incipient state; but when it is fully developed or seated under the surface, not in the skin, warm applications are best. In the account of local applications, you will find a greater wariety of substances than I have now mentioned ; thus ^emollient, narcotic, and unctuous substances are recommended for the purpose of producing changes in the parts to which they are applied. I believe that none of these substances act in the way they are supposed to act. I do not know that there is any direct means for softening the skin, for instance : and the nar- cotics, or indeed any medicine of that kind, can have no sort of effect, as long as the cuticle remains entire. It is true, opium will act through the cuticle, if it is powerfully rubbed in ; but such things as are employed under the term narcotics, ■such as some herbaceous infusions in warm water, are not .capable of producing any narcotic effect whatever. It is observed in the animal economy, that when a new dis- ease is produced, the one which existed previously, very gene- rally becomes considerably diminished in its extent, or fre- quently entirely disappears. If a person has a violent inflam- mation of the urethra or bladder, and the testicle becomes inflamed, the inflammatory symptoms generally disappear from the urethra. If a child has a serious inflammation of the eye, and the ear becomes sore and breaks out, the eye will get well. It has been attempted to imitate this process of nature by pro-