133 TREATMENT OF ABSCESS [various extent in different instances; that small tube, which is l.ihe remains of the abscess, and the external opening through pvhich the matter is discharged, constitute what is called a fistula or sinus. Fistula means merely a tube or pipe. Treatment—I have next to consider the treatment of an iibscess qf the kind of which I have been speaking to you. I j iave mentioned to you, that the sides of the abscess are capable tof absorbing, as well as secreting of pus. We may, therefore, conclude, that if the process of inflammation could be com- pletely put a stop to, the pus contained in an abscess would be :iaken up by the absorbents, and thus that a natural cure of the Abscess might be effected without the matter being discharged Ut all. In this way, sometimes, abscesses are cured, without wither their bursting or being opened. It is, however, not a [■very frequent mode of cure, and certainly, as a general rule, we •nay say, that when matter has formed in a part, it either must «e discharged by the natural process I have now mentioned to you, or be let out by a surgical operation. I think the most frequent examples of cure of abscesses by Absorption are afforded in cases of venereal bubos, and in those [formations of matter in the neighbourhood of the groin. There ss a young woman at present in Magdalene’s Ward, in this aospital, in whom a considerable portion of matter formed in a .aubo has been absorbed. She came into the ward with a •venereal sore, of about the size of a sixpence, on the inside of : :he labium, and a bubo in a state of suppuration. The skin avas of a bright-red colour, and very thin ; the bubo must have contained at least an ounce of matter, if not more. In fact, the skin was so red and thin, that I thought it should be opened; and I do not know what circumstance it was, that led me to oostpone the operation on that day. When 1 saw this patient an the next visit, it did not appear larger in size, it did not . jive her much pain, indeed it was rather easier, and I did not then open it. The next time I saw her, it appeared evidently io be going away; the 6kin covering it was wrinkled, the enlargement was less, the redness seemed gradually to be diminishing, the fluctuation became less obvious, and now the matter is entirely removed. The treatment has consisted sim- ply in keeping the patient at rest; she has had a poultice over the part, and she has taken mercury in moderate doses. The dispersion of an abscess in this way, however, docs not happen often enough, to lead us to lay down any general mode of treating it, with reference to that particular object. It may be said, however, that the mere occurrence of suppuration in a part is not a sufficient reason for giving up the employment of those antiphlogistic means we had been previously using, with