305 VENEREAL DISEASE. t the raucous surface, a superficial abration, and the surface 'thus exposed assumes a greyish, or ash colour, as if it were covered by a superficial slough. Nay, further, in some indivi- duals, portions of the raucous membrane actually slough, and slough too, sometimes, to a considerable depth. In conjunc- tion with these effects of the mouth, there is an increased secretion of the salivary glands; and this constitutes saliva- ' tion, or ptyalism. in this condition a person will spit a pint, or two, three, or four pints, in the four-and-twenty hours. The fluid which is thus discharged, is a ropy, slimy fluid, con- sisting principally of a mixture of the secretions of the salivary • glands, with a mucous discharge from the raucous membrane. The effect which is thus produced upon the mouth, is considered a criterion of the general influence upon the system of the ' remedy on which we place our reliance for arresting and curing syphilis, add I believe it may very safely be regarded in that ; light. Often so long as no alteration is produced on the state of the mouth, we do not find the curative effect take place; and we generally find the curative influence proceed in propor- : tion to the local effect observed in the mouth; we cannot, how- ever, say that this is absolutely true in all cases. Other < effects may be produced by the remedy, though this peculiar influence on the mouth may not take place to the extent I have 11 mentioned ; so that there are some cases in which syphilitic j symptoms disappear, although mercury has not produced the I usual effect on the mouth. Now, at the time these various effects are produced by mer- cury on the system, we see a beneficial influence obviously produced on the syphilitic symptoms. Venereal ulceration is .put a stop to, the restorative processes commence, and the ulce- ration heals. Lymph, which has been diffused from the iris into the anterior chamber, is absorbed; the swellings of the I j periosteum are dispersed; matter is frequently removed from I buboes ; pains of the bones and joints disappear; and eruptions I of the skin fade away. Such are the changes we observe when I' the mercury acts decidedly on the disease. Now, we really I find it difficult to reduce these several manifestations of the I mercurial influence over syphilis to any one general principle. I i Indeed, when we survey them altogether, some of them seem I contradictory. We observe that mercury has a powerful in- I fluence in producing absorption ; that it will produce absorp- I tion of lymph from the iris, that it will produce absorption of I the interstitial deposition which constitutes a node in the peri- I osteum, and that it will produce absorption of matter from a I bubo. In all these cases, we see its power in increasing the I action of the absorbent vessels. But, on the other hand, we x