ULCERATION. 1S1 thus it has a most beneficial influence. For instance, when the vessels of the limb are very much distended, and tumefac- tion extends in the limb throughout; when the leg is swelled and painful, so that the patient cannot put it to the ground and walk, if he has it bandaged from the toes upwards, he will immediately find that he can put it down and stand upon it. The main point, then, in the treatment of indolent ulcers, consists in the application of external pressure, which may be made either to the limb generally, or to that part in which the ulcer is seated; but the most advantageous mode of employ- ing it is to the entire limb. Pressirre may be made in this way by means of a bandage of calico, or flannel, applied generally, uniformly, and as firmly as the patient can bear it, from the toes up to the knee; and the application of such a bandage, if it be judiciously applied, aided by simple applications to the part affected, will often do all that is necessary towards healing sores of this kind. How- ever, of late years, we have been in the habit of employing not only this general pressure, but also, more particularly to that part of the limb where the sore is, pressure by strips of plaster. This is a mode of treatment which was adopted by the late Mr. Baynton, an eminent surgeon of Bristol. You spread linen or calico with diaculum plaster—the emplastrum plumbi, or adhe- sive plaster, which is the same thing rendered a little more ad- i hesive by a small quantity of resin, or what you will find to be very effectual, soap plaster, with the addition of a little tar— a drachm of pitch to three or four ounces of the soap-plaster, will give it sufficient of the adhesive quality, and this will irritate the skin much less than either diaculum, or the com- mon adhesive plaster. A plaster of this kind is cut into strips of about an inch and a half in breadth, and long enough to encircle the limb, and leave three or four inches over. These .strips should be applied to that part of the limb where the ulcer is situated, and to two or three inches above and below the >sore. You commence below the sore, crossing it over the wound, and carrying it steadily and regularly round the leg, .giving it such a degree of tightness as the patient can bear; it mot being your object to apply the strips as tightly as possible. ;Tben each successive strip covers about the third of the one that has been applied; and thus you put on strip after strip, till you have applied a sufficient number. You then employ the roller which I have mentioned ; and this is the mode of treatment which was found very beneficial by Mr. Baynton, and which has subsequently been generally adopted. He mentions that the application of the strips of plaster and bandages, sometimes produces a slight degree of pain and heat