268 SCROFULA. deposition of tubercular substance throughout the various organs ; and, in many of the cases I have seen, there is disease of the bones very like scrofulous affections in the human sub- ject. For the same reason we find that scrofulous patients suffer more at one season of the year than at another; their complaints are aggravated in the winter and in the spring; they are better in the summer and autumn. The next in order among the exciting causes of scrofula, is insufficient or unwholesome food ; excess or irregularity of diet. These tend to disorder the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal, which is easily affected in scrofulous sub- jects. We cannot be surprised at this, if we consider that theirs is naturally a defective constitution. If the organ in which the nutriment of the body is prepared be attacked, can we wonder at rhe various forms in which the disease shows itself in the frame? The disposition to this disease is, no doubt, aggravated by sedentary habits. It very often happens that parents are anxious that their children should commence their studies early; that they should begin to employ their time at books, and give their attention to learning while very young; and thus the children are led to devote a portion of time to sedentary pursuits, which, from their natural buoyancy of spirit, they would occupy in another way, and in a manner which I believe would be much more to the advantage both of their minds and bodies. These causes—that is, cold and bad diet, or excess of diet, the neglect of exercise, and sedentary habits—produce states of the frame in which irregularity of the functions of the alimen- tary canal, a want of circulation in the capillary system, and a want of full development of the muscular powers, are very much marked ; and such are the leading characteristics of sub- jects of scrofulous disease, disorder of the digestive organs, a pallid state of the skin, and a loose and flaccid condition of the muscles of the body. When several exciting causes of scrofula act in conjunction, and with considerable activity, they are capable of producing a state of frame which we cannot distinguish from that which attaches to other individuals from birth. Thus, in those sub- jects in whom nothing of the kind has occurred, a sort of acquired scrofula may be superinduced. In this way the crowded dwellings of the poor, the confined situations in which they live, their deficient and unwholesome diet, their in- sufficient clothing, their want of necessary warmth, and the absence of various comforts requisite during the winter season, bring on, in the children of the poor, a state of disorder in the