224 TETANUS. It is not an immediate consequence of such injuries; it comes on some days after the occurrence of the wound, and often a considerable number of days after it. Perhaps from five to fifteen days may be stated as the ordinary limit. If the patient have no affection of tins kind for the space of about three weeks after the accident, he may be considered safe, free from all danger of tetanus. Tetanus occurs, in its idiopathic form, more frequently in hot climates than in those which are temperate; it is quite un- common in the latter, though very frequent in the former. The affection, in the first place, shows itself in the muscles of the jaw, and those that are concerned in deglutition. The patient finds a stiffness in the movement of the jaw ; he experiences an uneasiness in swallowing, and he soon finds that he has a dif- ficulty in separating the teeth for the admission of food into the mouth. About the same period, a pain begins to be felt behind the sternum, and this pain extends from the pit of the stomach towards the vertebral column. This pain has generally been ascribed to the tetanic communication of the nervous affection to the diaphragm, although, perhaps, that is rather a doubtful explanation of the phenomenon. The muscles of the back of the neck begin to be affected by the spasm ; subsequently those of the back generally ; then the muscles of the abdomen, and the abdomen becomes as hard as a board; then the muscles of the limbs, and, lastly, those of the face. When the muscles of the face are affected with tetanic spasm, the features are drawn, independently of the will of the patient, into a peculiar form ; very frequently a kind of grin is produced by their action. It is a kind of grin and laughter, but without the will of the pa- tients, so that it is an appearance of laughter, independent of that state of mind which should accompany it, and there is a something very distressing in the effect thus produced. Now I have mentioned to you, that the state of the muscles affected in tetanus is, generally, that of spasm or permanent contraction. Cullen gives it the name of rigiditas spasmodi- curn—a spasmodic affection; but, generally, rigidity of the muscles is attended with very severe pain; indeed you can easily imagine this, when you recollect how severe a pain is produced by a slight cramp in the legs. The patient labouring under tetanus has a universal cramp, and the sufferings, there- fore, are excessive. The affection of the muscles in any part in which it comes on, does not at first reach to the highest degree of contraction, but the muscles become more and more rigid as the affection proceeds. In the first instance, for example, the jaw is not confined completely; the patient has, perhaps, the power of opening the mouth, but, as the affection proceeds, the