110 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION? inasmuch as the local symptoms are less violent, and the sym- pathetic disturbance slight, or not existing at all; it is not so necessary to take blood generally as in acute inflammation ; but the general abstraction of blood is by no means inapplicable or unnecessary; on the contrary, it is often necessary in the disease which must come under the technical head of chronic. We see many instances of chronic inflammation, that have not been very actively treated, where we can take blood from the arm at the end of some weeks, or even some months. Take the case of a person of a plethoric, or robust, habit, with chronic inflammation of an important organ, such as the head or eye, and then the loss of blood is frequently not only advantageous, but we may say necessary. It is often necessary, occasionally, to take blood in moderate quantities in those states of plethora which I have mentioned as constituting the remote or predis- posing cause of so many local diseases, and where such states of plethora have not actually proceeded to the extent of excit- ing inflammation in any particular organ. The abstraction of blood, in small quantities, is often very beneficial, even where there is not much disturbance. Where there is a white tongue, we attempt to remove disturbance in the digestive organs ; we give purgatives, and cannot remove it; but if we take a small quantity of blood from the arm, we shall remove it at once. The local loss of blood is frequently necessary in chronic in- flammation by cupping or leeches. Counter-irritation is very frequently necessary, and here we attempt a more active mode of producing it than is adopted in acute inflammation. We do not so commonly employ blisters, but usually more consider- able means of irritation. We excite the peculiar irritation of the skin in the neighbourhood of the part affected, and this is pro- duced by rubbing upon it the tartrate of antimony. By mixing finely-powdered tartrate of antimony with lard, in the proportion of one part of the tartrate of antimony to three parts of the lard, you form an ointment, and by rubbing a small portion of that upon the part, night and morning, you produce a peculiar in- flammation of the skin, which develops a large quantity of pustules, that are in one stage not much unlike the small-pox eruption. Setans, issues, vtoxte, are other modes of effecting counter-irritation. The regulation of the digestive organs is a matter of consi- derable importance in the treatment of chronic inflammation; here, in the first place, as in the acute, you clear out the ali- mentary canal, and then have recourse to such means as would insure the regular action of the bowels without producing purging. There are a great many medicines which have the effect of purging, but in difl'ereut cases we must select those