70 CAUSES AND EFFECTS OF INFLAMMATION. not thought fit to cut out all mankind by one pattern. There are, in fact, varieties in the organization and function of every part; varieties that are common to a considerable number of individuals, and they being arranged and classed together, constitute what physiologists have termed differences of tem- perament or constitution. It is the predominancy of particular actions or sympathies of the organs, in certain individuals, that constitute the sanguineous, the nervous, the lymphatic, and the chylopoietic temperaments. In the first, the circulating system ; in the second, the nervous system ; in the third, the absorbent; and in the fourth, the alimentary or digestive sys- tem, seems to be predominant, or to bear the leading character in the organization. These differences in the temperament, or constitution, have been recognized from the remotest times, and no doubt they are found in nature. There are, then, certain general differences which are com- mon to a number of individuals ; and there are certain peculiar differences which belong to each part and person ; these last are called }diosyncracies. This is a Greek term, which means peculiar mixture, as if it denoted the particular proportions in which the various organic elements are combined in each indi- vidual. Now we find, in point of fact, that there is something peculiar in the constitution and bodily character of every one. We see this particularly marked by the effects which certain external agents produce on each individual. We observe that particular medicines, or particular kinds of food, produce cer- tain effects on some individuals that they do not on others. There are some persons in whom it is difficult to affect the sys- tem with mercury; there are others, in whom a blue pill, or a small dose of calomel, will produce a violent salivation ; and there are a variety of other differences of the sam? kind. Another law of nature is, that organized beings produce, by generation, new beings like themselves, otherwise species and races would not be preserved: and this law, by which the progeny partakes of the character of the parents that give birth to it, extends to the diversities I have just mentioned—the difference of temperament, and sometimes the individual dif- ference ;—and thus it happens that the temperament and dis- position to certain diseases, are inherited and run, in different families, just like particular forms of the features. We come, in the next place, in considering the circum- stances which give predisposition to certain diseases, to consi- der what are called morbid differences ; these approach nearer to the state of disease than the differences of temperament men- tioned, though it would not be very easy to draw a line of dis- tinction between them. As examples of morbid disposition, I