ON MORTIFICATION 154 to a part of the body ; there are others which will only pro- duce the effect, when applied under certain circumstances; that is, when they affect certain individuals, possessing a cer- tain state of health. Those unhealthy states of constitution, which, in common language, and not very inappropriately, are called “ bad habits of body,” are the most powerful predisposing causes. There are such conditions of health in individuals as will lead to mortification, on the application of very slight dis- posing causes ; and there are certain states of certain parts of the body, in which the occurrence of mortification would be very speedy. For example, it sometimes happens that the arteries of a limb may undergo certain changes, and become ossified. Here are specimens (showing them) of a portion of a large artery, converted into a complete bony canal; and when this change takes place, as it frequently does in the trunks of large vessels in the extremities of old persons, you cannot wonder that the circulation in the capillary vessels should be easily disturbed, and lead to mortification on the application of slight causes. The divisiou, then, of predisposing, or direct and exciting causes, is as important in mortification as in inflammation, and other important diseases. Among the causes of mortification, we may enumerate the application of intense cold to the body; the infliction of very serious local injury ; the direct inter- ruption of the supply of blood to a part by pressure, or by liga- ture, in the main artery of a limb. In the same way certain diseases of the heart, particularly those which produce a con- traction of the orifice of the aorta, are capable of inducing mor- tification. Two or three winters ago I had a lad in the hospital, under my care, who laboured under a disease of this kind: we could not ascertain, exactly, the nature of the disease about the heart, for the body was removed before we could examine it; but mortification came on in the toes of both feet, and I have very little doubt, that that was owing to ossification of the orifice of the aorta, so as to interrupt the passage of blood from the heart to the extremities. By local pressure on a part where veins and arteries'are very numerous, such as that of stricture of the intestine in strangulated hernia, general pressure on the whole of a limb, particularly when that limb becomes the seat of acute inflammatory action, will produce mortification. Now, it sometimes happens, after serious injury to a limb, that a bandage is applied to it; much swelling often succeeds, and thus the bandage, which has been applied only with a proper degree of tension at the time, becomes an excessively firm liga- ture over the whole limb, and thus the application of a bandage has too often led to mortification, and even to the death of a