MECHANICAL INJURIES., WOUNDS, ETC. 199 In tbe memoirs of the French Royal Academy of Science, in 1786, there is a paper by Duhammel, on the engrafting of the spurs of cocks into their combs. He mentions, that it has been a practice to make a hole in the comb of a cock, to take his spur off, and to put it into that hole ; and he says, that in such a case lire spur would not only inosculate, but grow to a considerable size ; and he mentions having seen them grow to the extent of four inches under such circumstances. Mr. Hunter repeated those experiments, and certainly found the same cir- cumstance to take place. He found that the spur of the cock would grow when inserted into the comb, and, in fact, that it would get to a larger size than if left in its natural situation. He found that the spur of a hen might be engrafted into the leg of a cock, and that it would grow there j also, that the spur of a cock might be engrafted into the leg of a hen, but that it would not there grow so rapidly or so large. He mentions another experiment, that of inserting a tooth, recently drawn, into the comb of a cock, and that it would become adherent; and he mentions this as an instance of vascular adhesion, al- though it might be doubted whether the adhesion of a tooth, in the comb of a cock, could be considered as resulting from inos- culation of vessels; for I remember seeing a tooth very firmly inserted into the comb of a cock when the tooth was a dead tooth, and which had remained a long time in a drawer before it was inserted into the comb at all; so that it seems a living part has the power of grasping such a substance as that, and bolding it firmly. Mr. Hunter, however, performed the further experiment of taking out the testicle of a cock, making an opening in the abdomen of a hen and inserting it there. Under these circumstances he found that the testicle became adherent to the serous membrane of the abdomen of the hen, and grew in that situation. Treatment.—With respect to the treatment of incised wounds, including also those inflicted in surgical operations, you will immediately perceive that the mode of management must be simple, our object being to promote adhesion and to prevent tbe occurrence of inflammation. In order to promote adhesion, we must bring tbe edges of a wound together, and we must retain them in contact. This is accomplished either by stripes of adhesive plaster or by su- tures, or by bandages, or by attention to the position of the limb. Heretofore sutures were generally relied on for accomplishing the union of recent wounds, now we almost exclusively employ adhesive plaster for that purpose. If adhesive plaster be used, you must bring together the edges of the wound, by employing such a number of strips of the plaster as are just sufficient for