DISORDER OF THE DIGESTIVE ORGANS. 81 short time, however, we find that this state is changed into a condition bordering on disease. That an individual so cir- cumstanced has a full strong pulse, heat of skin and head-ache, and that perspirations, are easily induced on the slightest exer- tion; the tongue is white, and the individual is on the brink of disease, though still he is said to be in a state of health. This is a condition of plethora, or unnatural fulness of the system, which, as I have mentioned to you, may be regarded as the first step in the deviation from health towards disease. It is a condition in which disease will be very easily induced, and in which, when it does occur, it will assume a very active inflammatory nature. It is pure, simple, or common inflam- mation that will occur under such circumstances. If the same cause continue to act, that is, if into the system already overloaded, fresh supplies are poured, the condition of the organs becomes altered. They are no longer able to per- form their functions ; they get out of order, and the individual passes from health into the condition I have mentioned. Diges- tion is first disturbed; chylification; absorption ; and the biliary and urinary secretions become impaired in consequence. The individual now presents a state of symptoms very different to that which characterised his condition before: You find, perhaps, a foul and loaded state of the tongue; an unnatural, and frequently, a kind of voracious appetite, costiveness, and the motions, when they are obtained, are dark and unnatural in consistency and colour. The urine is scanty in quantity, high-coloured, and turbid. The skin is sallow, dark, harsh, and dry ; occasionally, even an unpleasant sort of perspiration is produced from it. Now, in the first of these two states, there is a condition of plethora from an excess of nutrition—an overfulness from the immediate effect of an improper quantity of aliment taken into the body ; in the other case, there is defective excretion. The second condition is beyond a state of mere plethora; it is plethora, with defective secretion added to it. These terms may serve, in a general way, to characterise the two conditions I have just alluded to—plethora from excessive nutrition, and plethora with defective excretion. I borrow these phrases from Dr. Barlow, of Bath, a physician who has investigated a very important point of pathology, which is, the mode in which health passes into the condition of disease. He has en- deavoured to find out the state which intervenes between health, and the development of disease in an obvious form ; and it must be clear to you, that this is a very important consideration towards understanding the way in which disease is produced, and may be removed. Dr. Barlow has published a