INFLAMMATION. 47 arteries throughout the fore-arm, as far as the bend of the elbow. In conjunction with this increased action of the principal arterial trunks that lead to the inflamed part, you will find a corresponding distention in the veins, which convey the blood away from it. In the case of the hand, if you uncover the limb, you will see the veins are manifestly distended. They are often as full as you will find them to be, after having placed a ligature above the elbow, before you perform venesection. In conjunction with these four remarkable alterations in the part already mentioned, the function of the inflamed organ is suspended, or, at least, considerably impaired; that is, the patient either cannot move the limb without great pain, and then but very imperfectly; or, when the inflammation has proceeded to a certain extent, he is totally incapable of moving it. Supposing the inflammation continues, and that its pro- gress is increased instead of being checked, as the nature of sucb disturbance is, unless means are adopted to arrest it, you will then find other diseases take place in the part, and that those are of a very serious and important kind. All the symptoms I have now mentioned, increase in in- tensity. The part becomes greatly swollen ; the redness aug- ments, most severe and agonising pain is experienced, so as to prevent the patient from resting, and then various effects are produced in different instances. The local increase of action is carried to such an extent occasionally, that the part can no longer sustain it; it loses its vitality, and mortification ensues. A certain portion of the skin assumes a dirty brownish or blackish colour, indicating that it is dead ; that mortification or gangrene has taken place, and the part thus deprived of its vitality, is technically called a slough. Under a less violent degree of inflammation, matter forms; that is, a thickish yel- low, or whitish fluid, known by the name of pus, is poured out by the inflamed vessels in the substance of the part, being deposited in one spot, where we find a cavity tilled with it, constituting an abscess. This is technically known by the term suppuration. Or, without proceeding to either of these states, the swelling of the part may diminish, the pain and redness slowly lessen, the symptoms and effect of inflammation gradually disappear, the natural state returns by degrees, and the power of executing the natural function be restored, In other words, the symptoms of inflammation slowly subside, the part slowly recovers, and this is called resolution. Under certain circumstances, that is, in some kinds of inflammation, not in such a case as I have been considering, the symptoms will suddenly, and almost immediately, disappear. This sud- den disappearance, by the French nosologists, has been dcsig-