183 ULCERATION. first place, it is expedient to put a stop to the inflammation of the integuments in this instance, and for this purpose you may apply leeches to the surface, and a bread-and-water poultice. When you propose leeches, patients are often very much alarmed, and say, Will not the application of the leeches bring the surface into a sore ? They are afraid that it will cause the skin to go into a state of ulceration. Now this is a mistafen notion ; the local abstraction of blood has a great effect in re- moving inflammation of the skin, and if you do this, you ac- complish a great deal towards restoring the ulcerated leg to a healthy condition. You take away the painful condition of the sore, and you then find it will heal up quickly. Often, simple dressing and pressure will be sufficient for the rest of your treatment. An important class of sores is what may be called inflamed ulcers. Inflammation is the source, or the cause, of ulcerative absorption generally, as I have already explained to you. The continuation of ulceration shows that inflammation is extending, and the superveution of inflammation in an ulcer under a heal- ing process, puts a stop to the healing process, and occasions the ulcer again to extend. Inflammation may exist in various degrees in ulcers producing different kinds of unhealthy appearances, and which are denoted by various terms. We hear people speak of painful sores of irritable sores. These, in fact, are only other words for sores that are inflamed. Ill-conditioned sores are principally those in which the discharge is of an unhealthy kind, that unhealthy discharge arising chiefly from the degree of inflammation ; in- flamed sores, sloughing sores, these are only a variety of de- grees of that state which generally may be called inflammation in an ulcer. When a high degree of inflammation exists in an ulcer, the margin is red and very painful; frequently it is of a fiery red. The limb is generally red, swollcu, and hot. I speak of a case in which there is a considerable sore, and that seriously in- flamed. The granulations, if there are any, quickly disappear; they are absorbed ; and instead of a healthy granulating sur- face, you have an irregular excavation formed in the bottom of the ulcer. You have a foul, tawny, livid, and sometimes bloody surface. There are sometimes unhealthy appearances in various parts of the limbs, and streaks of blood appear at different points in the sore. You will not expect that a sore of this kind will secrete good pus; in fact, nothing like pus ap- pears in the discharge that issues from it. Instead of pus, there is produced a considerable quantity of thin, foetid, nearly wa- tery fluid; or a kind of thin matter, sometimes of a red colour