100 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION; the application of leeches are convenient. There are also cer- tain states of inflamed parts, in which, on account of the pain that would be produced, cupping cannot be practised; here, likewise, we must have recourse to leeches. And I will ob- serve to you, that to be really efficacious, leeches must be em- ployed in greater numbers than is generally done. Speaking of the adult, I should say it is seldom worth while to apply a smaller number than ten or twelve, and the number may be increased, under particular circumstances, to two or three dozen or more. You will not, I trust, gentlemen, misunderstand the observa- tions I have made respecting bleeding, so as to suppose that I recommend local bleeding in all cases. There are many slight inflammations, in which it is not necessary to take blood either generally or locally; and there are others in which the local abstraction of blood answers every purpose in conjunction with other means. You must consider, in particular instances, the importance of the affected part, the degree of disturbance it labours under, and the probability that the continuance of the inflammation may produce changes of structure that would seriously impair the function of the part. You must also take into consideration the age, the constitution, and the habit of body, of the individual; and you must regulate your choice of means, by a combined view of those various particulars in such instances. Certainly, when it is your object to check inflammation sud- denly, either on account of the importance of the organ, or from the apprehension of such changes of structure as inflam- mation very frequently produces, you will, in my opinion, find it advantageous to employ general bleeding—to employ that in a free manner; that is, to take a large quantity of blood at once, and to repeat the evacuation speedily, if the first does not accomplish the purpose. I am well convinced you will find this not only the more effectual way of arresting inflammation, but the mode of accomplishing the purpose with less ultimate expense to the powers of the constitution, than if you were to adopt what at first might appear to be a milder and more spar- ing use of the lancet. Indeed, I think there can be no compa- rison, if we look to the debility produced by continued high inflammation of a part, and the continued constitutional dis- turbance which high inflammation of an important organ is capable of producing on the system, and the debility that is produced by a considerable loss of blood at once. You will see patients much more weakened, if you allow disease to go on, than if you were to cut it short by active treatment. In fact, it is by no means uncommon, on the day after active