CAUSES AND EFFECTS OF INFLAMMATION. 67 gives to the membranes the appearance of being thickened* whereas, if you remove the deposition, you find that the part has its natural thinness. So great and so essential is the differ- ence between the product of inflammation in the two cases, i that you can hardly, by any artificial means, produce in the -one instance that which naturally takes place in the other. ;Mr. Hunter tried to produce in mucous membrane the same deposition of lymph that takes place on serous, but he could not succeed, or succeeded only very partially. You will im- mediately perceive, when you reflect on what the organs are, to \ which the mucous and serous membranes respectively belong, that if the mucous were liable to the same deposition of lymph and preternatural adhesions, the functions of the parts would be completely destroyed. Consider what would be the state of the stomach and other parts of the alimentary canal; these tubes would be completely blocked up by the deposition and .the unnatural adhesions which take place in the serous mem- brane. In inflammation of the fibrous membranes, you do not find .either effusion of lymph, or the secretion of fluid like pus, but .interstitial deposition and thickening of the part. All textures of the body, when injured, wounded, or divided, will suppurate; but in inflammations of the various organs rom internal causes, the tendency to this termination varies -really. The cellular membrane is particularly prone to sup- puration, but the glandular parts are little susceptible of it. I iancy it has happened only to very few to have seen abscess of be kidney or spleen. In these climates it is very rare to see t taking place in the liver. Inflammation frequently takes •lace in the testicle, yet suppuration of it is by no means com- aon. Suppuration is hardly ever seen, speaking either of spou- rneous inflammation, or that which arises from other causes, 1 the substauce of the muscles, or in the tunics of the stomach r other parts of the alimentary canal. Mortification takes lace easily in the cellular membrane; the skin is much less abject to it. Mortification is much more common in external jan in internal parts. I next come to the causes of inflammation, and these include most all the agencies that can affect the human body. In the first place, inflammation may be excited by all kinds ' injuries; whether mechanical, chemical, or of a mixed na- ire. It is excited by the infliction of wouuds, whether they e incised, lacerated, or contused. Inflammation is conse- •ient, therefore, upon surgical operations. It is produced by essure on the body, whether exerted externally, or taking ace from internal causes, such as the distension or approach f 2