122 INFLAMMATION ; accompanied by a collection of sordeas about the teeth and lips ; these present a collection of symptoms which have given rise to the term malignant or putrid fever. The patient then goes into a state of debility, and hence arises the adynamic fever of the French, which may be considered as equivalent to j fever from debility—want of power. Such are the terms which are used to designate the advanced stage of fevers which originate in affections of the head. That a considerable portion of cases of fever have their origin in the head, I think no one who has attended to the phenomena of these affections can entertain any doubt. Dr. Clutterbuck has entertained the opinion, and defended it very ably, that the head is the seat of disorder in fevers generally. His work on fevers you will find very well worth your perusal. It contains very rational and very ingenious views, both of the nature and of the treatment of the affection, and well deserves to be read, although we may not agree with him in the rather exclusive view he takes of the subject, in referring fever'entirely to affec- tions of this part of the system. I cannot entertain a doubt, for my own part, that inflammation, or disorder originating in the stomach or alimentary canal, may excite, sympathetically* febrile disturbance of the system, as well as inflammation or disorder originating in the head. However, we may really leave these two gentlemen, Dr. Clutterbuck and Dr. Broussais, to settle the matter between themselves; the one places the seat of all fevers in the head, the other in the alimentary canal. These extreme opinions are often useful in conducting us to the truth; they lead to the investigation of facts, and thus from the comparison of these, as brought forward by men who have investigated the same subject under different views, the truth is ultimately ascertained. There is here a specimen of a brain taken from a person who died of fever, which will show you the kind of vascular conges- tion which may exist; the determination of blood which may take place to the brain in cases of fever. This is from a person that was admitted into the Fever Hospital in the fourth week of the disease, and who died within thirty-six hours after admis- sion. You observe (showing the brain) that the whole external surface of the brain has become of quite a blight crimson colour, from excessive injection ofthe vessels of the organ. Dr.Tweedie says, that of six hundred cases treated, last year in the Fever Hospital, one hundred and twenty-two bad well-marked symp- toms of affection of the brain, and thirty-three equally well well marked symptoms of abdominal inflammation. 1 shall just make a slice into this, that you may have an opportunity j of seeing the state of the internal vessels. This has been taken