NATURE AND CLASSIFICATION OF DISEASES. 43 ceutical means; and chirurgical means, operations, or other manual proceedings. So that you will observe that surgery, strictly speaking, is a part of therapeutics, or the treatment of disease. Now the various views of disease I have just mentioned, taken altogether, constitute the science of pathology ; and the investigation of disease is not complete, until you have sur veyed it under all these various aspects; although these are various, they all have a mutual bearing on each other; and your views would be very imperfect, unless you surveyed the whole of them. It has sometimes happened that disease has been considered in one or other of these views only, and particular treatises have been written upon them. You are not to consider, how- ever, that because such partial views of the subjeet have been treated of under particular names, that they constitute separate sciences. We have bad the consideration of nomenclature and arrangement, which constitute nosology; the consideration of symptoms—symptomology ; the consideration of causes— etiology, &c.; and there have been treatises on the art of diagnosis. I cannot approve of any of these partial views of disease. It is so necessary to contemplate the subject alto- gether, and the various parts elucidate each other so materially, that we ought not to attempt to take any particular view, but to consider the whole in conjunction. I have mentioned to you an observation made respecting the nature of diseases—namely, that in a great majority of cases it consisted in inflammation. In point of fact, in giving a course of medical or surgical lectures, we are principally occupied in describing inflammation, and pointing out the mode of treating it. I therefore think that we should begin with this important subject. I have mentioned to you, that the arrangement of diseases I shall adopt will be founded on the different component tissues of the body ; but I think it necessary, first, to describe inflammation and treatment as connected with it. Itisof particular importance, in a surgical course, in which we have to describe the nature of injuries, and their effects; for these are only modifications of inflammation. You will find that in doing this we shall save both time and trouble. In the subsequent portions of the course we shall have occasion, in describing the tissues, to advert to the general principles laid down on this part of the subject;— I shall, therefore, in my next lecture, call your attention to— Inflammation. It is, however, so necessary to view the whole of the parts together, that we should not attempt to take any of them alone.