318 VENEREAL DISEASE; the other treatment out of the question, the average duration of the cases on meat diet was fifty.five days, that of those on vegetable diet, thirty-three days. So that you observe that the difference from the employment of a mild vegetable diet, and a stimulating animal diet, without reference to other points of treatment, made a difference in the general duration of those cases, of twenty-two days; those on animal diet occupied, on an average, fifty-five days, and those on vegetable diet only thirty-three days. Primary Sores or Chancres.—I proceed to state to you my observations on the primary syphilitic sores or chancres, as they are called. Now the word chancre denotes the acrid, or eating, or ulcerative quality of those sores. It is rather an equivocal term, and it is therefore, best, perhaps, to employ it as little as we can help. The expression—primary sore, would answer the purpose for the word chancre, because chancre is supposed to be a syphilitic sore, one possessing venereal pro- perties ; and as among the ulcerations incidental to the whole frame, there are several that do not possess these properties, it is supposed, when we speak of chancre, that there is a peculiar poison in the case. Now, as we cannot, in a great variety of cases, know whether auy such poison has been communi- cated or not, it is better to employ that term as little as we can help. Primary sores then appear, chiefly, on the external or- gans of generation of the two sexes; most commonly on those parts covered by a thin and delicate membrane, such as the glans penis, or lining of the prepuce, in the male; on the va- rious parts included between the labia pudendi, covered by a thin skin, in the female. These are the most frequent seats of primary syphilitic ulceration. Such sores may come, and they are not uncommon, on the external parts of the organs of generation which are covered by common cuticle, as on the external skin of the prepuce, of the penis, or on the labia pudendi. Now, they may also come on the smooth surface of mucous membrane, but they are much less com mon in those parts than in other places. Syphilitic sores, it is true, do show themselves within the urethra of the male, and within the orifice of the vagina of the female ; but they are uncommon in both of these situations. They are ge- nerally produced by the application of the poisonous, or infec- tious, secretion to the external and unbroken surface of the part; they may be produced, too, by the application of such secretion to the surface of a recent wound, or of an open ulcer. In the latter way they are occasionallyproduced on the fingers and on the nipples. With respect to the latter, I am not ex- actly certain whether it is necessary there should be any actual