280 GOUT. those who are subjects of gout, to be persons whose habit of body has been vigorous, and who have been able to take large quantities of aliment. Now this state of plethora will be attended, when it begins to take on disorder, with more or less derangement of the diges- tive organs, and the attack of gout is generally preceded by symptoms of that kind. Yet, immediately before the attack, it is very likely that the patient will feel perfectly well, even, in- deed, so late as the night or the day before the disease shows itself. We cannot, therefore, regard disorder of the digestive organs as the cause ; for a healthy condition of the digestive organs is the state that will lead to plethora. I may observe, that the occurrence of the gout seems to relieve the system from the condition of plethora under which it previously laboured. Now I speak of the condition of a patient when he first becomes the subject of gouty attacks; for when these attacks have been repeated, when a great number of the joints of the body have been over and over again lamed by it, and the individual has been suffering for a great many years ; and when such persons have often experienced that affection of other parts of the body, which very commonly comes on in gouty persons, the powers of the system are eventually so much reduced by the attacks of disease and the advance of years, that the state of the patient becomes very different from what it was at the commencement of the attacks. You do not find those symptoms denoting plethora which I have men- tioned. You will find a deficiency in the secretions, and this accompanied, probably, by a great degree of langour, and there is, indeed, a deficiency of power to produce a gouty paroxysm. But, in order to form an accurate notion of this, we must direct our attention to its commencement. At earlier periods, there is an occurrence of symptoms which would denote it; there is discernible, indeed, a loss of power requisite to produce the disease in certain parts, so that the real nature of the disease becomes obscured. Treatment of Gout.—Now we have little difficulty in point- ing out what is the proper mode of treating this complaint. The disease, in the affected part, is by no means the most important circumstance in the case ; it is rather one of a secondary con- sideration ; therefore the main object will not be in this case, as in common inflammation, to employ those local means calculated to reduce the inflammation. Generally speaking, we may almost neglect the consideration of the local affection. The local affection, indeed, in cases of gout, may be considered as a means adopted by nature to relieve the system from its state of plethora. It is a sort of egress by which the diseased