359 SECONDARY SYMPTOMS. the skin, but soon disappeared, upon having1 recourse to mer- curial medicines. After some time the blotches appeared again, and were accompanied with a small ulcer in the labium pu- dondi, as in the former case. The child was, however, com- pletely cured by a repetition of the treatment, and remained well. Now here you observe there is a succession of appearances, proceeding from 1771 to 1775 ; successive children of the same mother becoming affected by venereal disease, which she had received from the woman who had drawn her breasts ; so that it had not been communicated through the medium of sexual intercourse. Some time ago, I had occasion to see a case of affection of the breast, where there was a primary ulcer, with indurated base and margin, consequent on disease communicated to a nurse by a child that she was suckling; and the facts of the case that I have just alluded to may serve to illustrate the natural history of these affections. A lady, in the family way, called upon a poor woman, and told her that she was living in private; and observing a healthy child at her breast she asked her to take her infant when it was born, and suckle it. The woman consented, keeping her own infant at the right breast, and the other at the left breast. The latter child was healthy at the time it was born, but she stated that, in a week or a fortnight after, she observed two small blisters, as she described them, come about the organs of generation, the nose got stuffed, and the mouth became sore; in fact, the woman described clearly a syphilitic affection of the child. As soon as the child’s mouth was affected, her own nipple got sore. The child took white powders, and the eruption gradually got bet- ter, but her own nipple remained sore. At the time I saw her (February, 1827,)the infant bad not got well, its skin had marks of venereal eruption over various parts of the body, and it was stuffed about the nostrils; the suckling still continued. The woman who nursed the child had a smooth red superficial ulcer upon the breast. The sore looked clean ; in size it was nearly equal to a shilling. The substance of the gland about the nipple was indurated, forming a lump as large as an egg; there was also a superficial sore in the axilla, and a lump above it, which probably was a glandular affection caused by the primary sore. When 1 asked her whether she had any eruption or sore on any other part, she said she had not; but 1 found, by examination, a few small spots on the scalp, a few of a similar character on the region of the pubes, and two or three superficial ulcerations on the labia. These were the appearances that resulted as the secondary symptoms of the primary sores communicated through