NATURE AND CLASSIFICATION OF DISEASES. 33 nature of many of these diseases. We see the function of a part deranged, and we lay it down as a head of disease, with- out understanding exactly what is the cause of the derange- ment. 1 believe you will find, if you take any particular organ, and put together all you can say respecting it under the several beads I have now mentioned, that you will nearly ex- haust the subject of its diseases. Suppose we take the eye, and consider the physical injuries and wounds that may be inflicted on it; secondly, the inflammation that may arise, divided into common and specific; thirdly, the consequences ; fourthly, the organic changes ; and, fifthly, the functional de- rangement; we shall find there is hardlyjany thing that is not referable to these heads. However, we may, perhaps, find something that does not strictly come under these, and there- fore we must constitute another division to include what is not referable to any of the preceding ; this will form a collection of sundries. In the eye, cataract would be referred to such division, it is better to adopt this course; because, in doing so, we do not go beyond our knowledge; and when we look to matters referred to this division, we see in what wc are igno- rant, and point them out as subjects of future investigation. I think it is better not to pretend to be informed upon a subject of which we have no knowledge. When we do not understand the nature of a disease, it is better to acknowledge the fact at once, and leave it for further investigation, rather than to take up an imaginary and theoretical opinion, and suppose that it accounts for appearances of which we are, in fact, ignorant. The matters thus arranged are designated as subject for future inquiry. When we are acquainted with the seat and nature of a dis- ease, we are enabled to give it a clear and expressive name, which will at once denote it. There are many diseases that are named in this way—thus cephalitis, iritis, gastritis, nephri- tis : these denote inflammation of the respective parts, the termination itis being chosen to designate the state of the organ, and the former part of the word the organ itself. These names indicate the particular kind of disease, gastritis—inflam- mation of the stomach, and all such names, expressing both the seat and the nature of the derangement. In a great many instances, our knowledge is too imperfect to admit of diseases being named in this way, and then they come to be named by some leading feature. Thus we have diarrhoea, dysentery, and colic. Frequently diseases are named from the pains accompanying them; as cephalalgia (headach); gastrodynia, guttrodynia, pleurodynia, Sec.; or from a preter- natural discharge of fluid, as hiEmoptysis—spitting of blood ; D