BLEEDING. 93 ; ake away from the organ which is the seat of excitement, the ■ material which keeps up that excitement. You will therefore suppose, that local bleeding would be the most direct and pow- ! rful means of reducing any local excitement. This, however, evould be an erroneous conclusion. You can take blood out of ji. part by local bleeding, but you cannot thus stop the supply of ; .flood to that part. You can take away a portion of the blood i hat is in the part, but blood still continues to come to it. The consideration, therefore, is, how you can cut off from the in- flamed part, the supply of blood which keeps up the disturb- ance in the organ ; and this you can only accomplish through !;be medium of general bleeding. If you carry general bleed- - og to a sufficient extent, you can entirely stop the increased I action in any part, and you cannot do that through the medium * if local bleeding. Take, for instance, a patient who labours i under inflammation of the chest; you have a person who has (violent pain in the side, that patient is unable to distend the i-.borax fully ; he cannot expand the chest; the inflamed organs ;.are in such a painful state, that he cannot use that voluntary j.exertion which is necessary to till the lungs with air. You tind it aim with a hot skin, in a state of general distress, and with this nability to draw in a full chest of air. You open a vein in the .arm, and take a considerable quantity of blood from it: when ■ you have done that, you find that the reduction in the volume 1 of circulating fluid, will enable the patient to distend the thorax j-witb facility, lie can take in a full and deep inspiration, and the general distress that existed is completely removed. This will most particularly be seen, if you carry the abstraction of blood nearly to the extent of producing fainting. You will find | a changeinthe state of respiration almost immediately. You see S lhe effects produced while you are actually drawing the blood from the vein of the individual 5 and thus you have a clear <. proof that that particular mode of relief is capable of putting an end to the inconvenience which the inflammation of the pleura or the lungs occasioned. Suppose you bleed a patient who labours under inflammation of the eye; there is preter- natural redness of the organ, intense pain, and inability to open it against the liglrt; it is suffused with tears; and any occa- sion to use it produces an overflow of these on the surface of the cheek. You take a good quantity of blood from the arm of the patient, so as to produce a state of fainting; immediately, and before your eyes—for you can see all the phenomena here— you observe that the part, which was of a bright colour, be- comes quite pale ; the capillary vessels of the organ are emp- tied: in fact, you find the patient can open the eye with facility to the light, and for a time the part has passed nearly into a