NATURE AND CLASSIFICATION OF DISEASES. 39 means happening with, occurring together; therefore a symp- tom of disease must be something which you actually see or notice at the time of your examining a case. The phrase “signs of disease,” is more comprehensive, for that will em- brace all which has occurred prior to the time of examination. Now you will observe that symptoms in this way are divided into the primary,—those changes which take place in the part itself; and the secondary, or those which occur in the condi- tion of other organs. Increased redness, swelling, and a yel- low discharge, are the primary symptoms of a clap. Increased frequency of making water, and swelling of the testicles, are secondary symptoms of the same disorder. In looking to the symptoms of disease, particular attention has been paid to such as constantly take place; and those have been called pathognomonic symptoms; the meaning of which is, a something pointing out the nature of the disease. Secondary symptoms cannot be called pathognomonic; be- cause an organ may be secondarily affected in one case, and not in another. And even with respect to the symptoms that belong to the organ immediately affected, you do not always find them the same. One or another symptom may be some- times present, and sometimes wanting; so that there are very few appearances which are fit to come under the description of pathognomonic symptoms, and those are mostly found in cases of external diseases, and are referable particularly to what we ascertain by surgical examination. Thus, for example, if a patient have a pain in making water, if the stream be occa- sionally interrupted, if the urine be loaded with mucus, if the patieut feel pain from the motion of a carriage, we suspect he has got a stone in the bladder; but all these symptoms exist sometimes without there being a stone in the bladder. If, however, you introduce a metallic instrument into the bladder in such a case, and strike against a hard substance, and hear the sound produced, then that is a pathognomonic symptom of stone in the bladder. Symptoms have also been divided into local and into general. Local symptoms are those existing in a part; general symptoms are those changes affected in several parts of the economy, hence called general, from taking place in conjunction with several primary affections. Thus the collection of symptoms constituting fever, may occur in conjunction with any local in- flammation, or with an injury; therefore they do not point out in particular the nature of any disease. We next come, in the investigation of disease, to look to the circumstances by which disease has been produced ; that is, to the examination of causes, which is, as you will readily