NATURE AND CLASSIFICATION OF DISEASES. 31 non occurred, but that they merely pointed out the fact of the co-existence of certain affections; that one part suffers with> or at the same time as another—this is precisely the meaning of the word sympathy. I come next to speak to you of the differences in the nature of diseases. We have to determine, not only what .organ of the body is diseased in each case, but also how it is affected ; and this is a part of the subject still involved in considerable obscurity. Our notions of the ways in which organs are disturbed, are as yet imperfect. Probably there are some, of which we have, as yet, no idea. In the great majority of cases, diseases consist in increased action of the parts, that is, they are inflammatory. We have, therefore, to consider, first, the original disturbance, or the inflammation ; and, secondly, the more or less considerable, and the more or less durable change, which the-inflammation, by its continuance and progress, is capable of producing in the •structure of parts. Now inflammations are not all of one kind, and there is one leading distinction between them which it is necessary to notice, even in this general view. Inflammations are divided into two sorts—common and specific. The common inflam- mation is that produced by ordinary causes of disease, acting on healthy constitutions. A wound, for instance, inflicted on a person in good health, may cause common inflammation. Specific inflammations are those in which the constitution of the patient is unhealthy •, the deviation from the state of health being either hereditary or acquired; and examples of this occur in scrofula, gout, and rheumatism : or there are inflam- mations produced by one definite and specific cause, and by no other; as in the case of syphilis, small-pox, measles, scarlet fever, and the contagions generally. Specific diseases, then, are specific, or peculiar, either in consequence of peculiarity in the individual in whom they occur, or in the nature of the causes that produce them. You will understand, that the in- flammation thus excited is nearly similar to that produced by common causes; at least it is only a difference in modification, and frequently the specific inflammation is so much like the common, that a difficulty is experienced in distinguishing the one from the other. Often we cannot distinguish, by the appearances, between a syphilitic bubo, and a common inflam- mation of the glands in the groins. Having heard then, that diseases generally consist in a state of increased action, you will naturally inquire whether there is not another class that arises from the opposite cause—>dimi~