247 HYDROPHOBIA. obvious a course, is generally neglected. I do not think per- sons take any very great pains in this way to get the poisonous matter from the wound ; and hence, perhaps, it was this (al- though by no means to be considered as a certain preventive,) which caused Dr. Sully to turn his attention to the disease. Dr. Sully has published a small tract on the subject, the prin- cipal object of which is to recommend ablution of the wound. He recommends that tepid water, at about 90 or 100 degrees of heat, should be used, which would have the effect of rather in- creasing the bleeding; that it should be poured from a tea- kettle into the wound, the vessel being held four or five feet above it; or that the water should be injected into the wound through an instrument like the common stomach-pump, so as to force the liquid into all the parts involved in the injury, and that the ablution should be carried on for three or four hours. The practice of applying caustic, or of cauterising the part, has been frequently tried, more especially where the wounds have been extensive, or have been so situated that persons have been desirous of avoiding the use of the knife. We naturally conclude that if a powerful escharotic can be applied to the whole surface of a wound, that it will neutralise or destroy the effect of any poisonous substance adhering to it. The objec- tion to this is, that we cannot be completely certain of applying the escharotic to the whole surface; some of the saliva would, perhaps, escape the touch of the cautery. It happened to Mr. Hunter to trust to this, in the case of a young subject, a branch of a family of consequence, who had been bitten in the face, and in whom, unfortunately, hydrophobia afterwards came on, of which the individual died. The application of caustics, therefore, is not to be considered a safe mode of proceeding. A third mode of proceeding is excision of the bitten part; cutting out of the whole of the wounded surface; taking care to re- move, with the knife, the whole of the parts that have -been injured. And I need not observe to you, that, if this be effec- tually done, there can be no risk of subsequent hydrophobia. It is very necessary before you begin the operation of excision, that you should ascertain, as accurately as you can, how far the teeth of the animal have punctured, and take care that your incisions go beyond the part to which the tooth has reached. When you consider the great importance of the object you have in view, that of rescuing the patient not only from death, but from a kind of death most terrible to the individual, and most appalling to all those who are interested in his well-being, you will consider it best to be mther liberal than sparing in the use of the knife; that it would be better to put the patient to some