303 VENEREAL DISEASE. €4..d its effects mast be cautiously observed. We give some- femes the sixteenth, or the eighth, or the fourth of a grain, two ’.three times a day; seldom, if ever, however, exceeding the mantity of one grain in twenty-four hours. This remedy was .troduced into general practice, in consequence of the high tucomiums passed on it by Van Swieten, who employed it in <renna, and hence it has come to be very commonly used on :.e Continent, much more so, indeed, than here. When I was t Paris, about ten years ago, I found that all the cases, whether i'primary or secondary symptoms, at the Venereal Hospital, iere treated by the corrosive sublimate in solution; one grain !' the corrosive sublimate was used to an ounce of distilled sater, and the quantity given was half a grain in the course of ;ae day—rather a large allowance. The remedy was carried .jund when the attendant visited his patients, and it was mured out in his presence, and drank before him, so that the effect of it in this way, at least, was ascertained. But the general mode of administering it is in milk, or in thin muci- uge. The liquor hydrargyri oxymuriatis of the London Phar- macopoeia, contains half a grain of the corrosive sublimate to m ounce of distilled water, so that one drachm of the solution contains one-sixteenth of a grain of the corrosive sublimate. U grain of the corrosive sublimate may be dissolved in an unce of the tincture of bark, or tincture of rhubarb, and then tea-spoonful, containing the eighth of a grain, may be taken .hree times a day. The red oxyde of mercury, formerly called idle mercurialis calcinatus, may betaken in doses of a grain •wice a day, or sometimes in doses of a grain and a half, when -t is intended to affect the system. This is rather a powerful orm of the remedy, and very apt to affect the bowels, and as it mas no particular advantage attending its administration, it is sretty nearly discarded from practice in this country. Now, mercury, like other medicines, affects different indivi- duals in a very different manner, so that we cannot mention iiny definite dose that cau be employed at all times. There are ■ some persons in whom the smallest quantity, one or two grains of the blue pill, will produce salivation ; there are others in -whom you may rub in mercury, and to whom you may give | calomel and blue pill in very large doses, without affecting the system. Hence it is necessary to proceed cautiously, and ito watch the effect of the remedy. You cannot safely prescribe ■a dose, and let the patient go on repeating it for two or three days, because at the expiration of that period, you will find, f probably, that a profuse salivation has taken place. You K should inquire whether mercuiy, on its having been used at p *any former time, had speedily affected the bowels or produced