VENEREAL DISEASE. 30 i 'lie cinnabar is volatilised by the heat, and rises in a white imoke. A grey pellicle is gradually formed on the ulcerated .urface exposed to the fumes. When we endeavour to produce a mercurial effect on the constitution in this disease, we can accomplish it, generally, cither by applying certain forms of the mercury to the surface ■f the body, or by administering it internally. The most common anode of applying it externally is by that of friction, that is, .ubbing on the inside of the thighs before the fire, for a space if about twenty or thirty minutes every night, a drachm of the aiercurial ointment. Sometimes half a drachm only is used ; Mime times a drachm is employed twice in the course of a day. When the rubbing is discontinued, the chief part of the ointment will be found to have disappeared ; it m ty be said to have been ubbed in; the patient should not wipe off what may be ad- herent to the skin, but put on a pair of flannel drawers, and lontinue to wear them during the process. If pimples be drought out by the rubbing of the ointment on the inside of :he thighs, the patient must vary the place of application, by .ubbing it on the outside or anterior part of the thighs ; and, inasmuch as a certain portion of it adheres to and clogs upon the skin, it is necessary to wash the part clean with soap and water every third night, before rubbing in any more. Now -when the mercurial ointment is applied in this way to the external parts of the body, it is capable of producing the same effect on the system, as is produced when the remedy is taken inwardly in other forms. By the action of friction, the mer- curial ointment is made to enter the absorbent vessels, and thus it is introduced into the system.. The mere putting of tbe ointment in contact with the skin, is not sufficient; if you merely do this, the desired effect is not produced ; the mecha- nical art of rubbing is necessary to accomplish the purpose. A .principal advantage of employing mercury in this way is, that it does not produce those unfavourable effects on the alimentary canal, which often follow the internal use of mercury ; or if it do produce any inconvenience, it is in a much less degree. Hence friction was forrueely the general mode in which mer- cury was employed for the purpose of affecting the system. The troublesome nature of the proceeding has, perhaps, led in ■ some measure to its disuse, so that it is not so common now as t the internal administration. Mercury may be introduced into the system through the skin by general fumigation of the whole suiface of tbe body. If the naked body be placed in a square box, at the top of which is an opening for the head to pass out, and if some of the preparations of mercury are volati- lized by means of a hot iron placed in the bottom of the box,