213 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. patient is ignorant until he finds it out by observing blood to flow from the wound. In other instances, considerable pain is produced, serious pain. Sometimes serious and even fatal haemorrhage is produced at the moment by a gun-shot wound; indeed you will easily understand that large vessels may be injured by wounds of this kind, and you will not be surprised if copious bleeding take place and the patient perish. But, in the majority of instances, gun-shot wounds do not bleed at all, or only to a trifling extent; when a thigh, for instance, is carried away by a cannon ball, no considerable hcemorrhage takes place. When an artery is divided by actual tearing, the coats do not give way all at once, each in the same degree. The internal and middle coats do not allow of stretching like the external or cellular coat. The internal and middle coats rupture first; the external or cellular coat is drawn out to a considerable extent; but that also, at last, yields. It is very elastic, it contracts again, corrugates, and forms a kind of natural bandage, or liga- ture, round the divided internal and middle coats. Thus, if you take an artery out of a part, after a wound of this kind, you will find it covered by a dense cellular structure ; apd, in this way, it happens that when large arteries are thus broken, being first violently extended, and then torn, they do not bleed, although if a bullet or any other body go directly through them, without extending the coats, very violent haemorrhage takes place. Very frequently the occurrence of gun-shot wounds produces a peculiar effect, both in the nervous and the circulating sys- tems. It will produce violent tremors, agitations, alarms, or feelings of anxiety, in the individual. It will disturb the action of tiie heart, and reduce it very much, producing a feeble and irregular pulse, pains, colds, shiverings, and actual syncope. From the effects produced both in the nervous aud circulating systems, a patient will seem on the point of dying from a severe gun-shot wound; and these symptoms will fa3t for a few hours after the infliction of the wound, although, in other instances, as I have already mentioned to you, a patient may be hardly aware that a wound exists. These symptoms arise from a very violent depression of the nervous and circulating systems, and go off in two or three hours after the wound has been received. In considering the treatment of gun-shot wounds we may observe, that injuries of this kind are very often complicated in consequence of the presence of foreign bodies; that is, the bullet which has produced the wound may not have passed through the body. It may have entered it, and remained there*