158 ON MORTIFICATION. of instances the living parts which are attacked by mortification, are in astateof high inflammatory action,you will immediately perceive that alcohol, turpentine,camphor, and such substances, cannot be well calculated to prevent the occurrence of mortifi- cation ; and, indeed, we may dismiss altogether from the cata- logue of local means the substances called antiseptic, which are so much recommended by old writers in the treatment of mortification. Their employment has entirely arisen from an erroneous view of the subject. There are certain substances which have the power of cor- recting or of destroying the fetor which attends the process of mortification. Charcoal is one of those, and thus the applica- tion of charcoal to the diseased part is often advisable, with reference simply to removing the annoying and offensive smell that attends it. For this purpose you use very fiuely-powdered charcoal, and mix it up with bread into a poultice, till the poul- tice is entirely black, then apply it to the part, and you will find that the offensive./etor, which is very great, will be much cor- rected. Alcohol and camphor have the same power in some degree ; but the most powerful agents in removing this, are the chlorates, or the chlorurets of lime or of soda, which have of late been introduced into practice by the French, and have been employed by them as disinfecting agents, as means for destroying the infectious character of various effluvia; and I believe they may be said to possess that power in a very com- plete degree. Certainly, if you apply to a part of the body which is undergoing mortification, cloths dipped in a solution of chloruret of soda, or of lime, of a sufficient strength, you will find that the unpleasant smell will be completely re- moved; and if you sprinkle a little of this solution over the bed-clothes, it will be of considerable service. Now the French have gone further than this; for they say, not only are these agents capable of destroying the effluvia arising from mortification and other diseases, but that they also teud to arrest the progress of mortification—that they stop the diseased action. If they did so, they would certainly be very important remedies. Mr. Alcock has introduced these circura- stances to the notice of English readers in an interesting pub- lication, in which he has collected the information principally from the French writers ; and he is of opinion, that those agents possess a power of acting on the living parts which are threat- ened by mortification, such as to check the progress of the disease. In instances where 1 have seen them used, it appears to me that they are merely to be regarded as disinfecting agents —•that is, as destroying the elpuvia; but that they do not at all possess the power of checking the progress of mortification