48 INFLAMMATION. nated by the term delitescence. This is derived from the Latin word delilesco, which means, to be concealed or hidden. In fact, it is equivalent to sudden disappearance of the symptoms. In the one case there has been the swelling in the texture of the part, and very slow removal of that swelling, occupying a considerable time ; iu the other, the removal is almost instan- taneous ; so that, I think, there is a propriety in distinguishing these two terminations ; namely, the sudden disappearance of the swelling, the delitescence of the French, and the slow removal or resolution. In cases in which mortification may have occurred, or suppuration have taken place, you will find in the neighbourhood of the mortified or suppurated part, that there is considerable hardness or swelling, which is caused by an interstical deposition ofcoagulable lymph arouud the part. After the process which the occurrence of suppuration renders necessary, is gone through, and indeed without this process, wherever thickening or induration does not subside when the inflammation has passed away, there remains a state of parts which, although not distinguished in our language by any particular term, has been alluded to by the French, under the name of engorgement. This hardness of the part, which is produced by the interstical deposition, disappears again, in general, as the inflammation declines ; but, in many instances, the function of the part may be seriously injured by it, although the inflammation has not proceeded so far as to cause the more serious changes of mortification and suppuration. Inflammation, then, is said to terminate in mortification, suppuration, interstitial deposition, resolution, or sudden disap- pearance. But this is not very accurate, because, in point of fact, inflammation does not terminate with these occurrences. If mortification take place, or if an abcess form, the inflam- mation is not at an end. The symptoms are relieved, the swelling is diminished, and the pain lessened, but the redness continues more or less ; the pain is not entirely removed, and it will be a long time before the part returns to its natural state. You can by no means say the inflammation has ter- minated, when these changes take place; they are parts of the inflammatory process, and not the conclusion or ending of that process. Such then are the effects which inflammation produces in the part which is its immediate seat, and these are the primary or local effects of the increased actiou. But we find, at the same time, that there are other effects produced belonging to the head of secondary or sympathetic disturbances, effects which, as they embrace a considerable number of organs, have some- times been called constitutional symptoms of inflammation.