VENEREAL DISEASE; been very painful in the coach during his journey. I asked 32 0 sorbed by the wound, and that this was the result. The first thing, therefore, to be done in this case, was to reduce the in- flammation. J accordingly ordered the application of a large number of leeches, and directed other suitable means to be em- ployed, and that he should keep quiet. I did not see him again for three or four days, because he was not regularly under my care. However, he had got rid of much of the in- flammation of the arm and forearm although not all of it, but the state of the thumb was not at all amended. I directed the black wash to be applied, and that he should take blue pill, live grains three times a day. He went on with this for a few days, but it had no effect on the system, and the sore became rather worse. I then deemed it necessary to employ the medi- cine in very large doses ; I gave him calomel and opium largely, and he was violently salivated ; the sore then put on a healthy appearance and proceeded rapidly to heal. As I have said, he was not regularly under my care, and he discontinued the use of the mercury before he had been completely cured ; the consequence was, that the sore went into an unhealthy state again, and he was under the necessity of going through a salivation a second time; by this, however, he was cured. Not long ago, a surgeon, of whom I previously knew nothing, wrote to me from the country, stating a similar case ; he had got a sore on his thumb, or on one of his fingers, I do not re- collect which. He had delivered a poor woman of a child in the town where he lived, having had a good deal to do among the poorer classes of society from a connexion with the parish workhouse. Finding a sore had been produced on the finger or thumb, by inoculation, as he thought, and that it was be- coming very bad, he was induced to examine the woman, when he found that she had got venereal ulcers. The sore increased rapidly, and it spread into a very nasty, foul ulcer. He wrote to consult me on it, stating these.circumstances, and begging to know what I thought of it. I wrote to him, saying, that I had no doubt be had imbibed the venereal poison, and I re- commended him to use mercury very freely. He came to town soon afterwards, and I saw him ; he looked very sallow, pale, and ill. He showed me the thumb or finger, which was much swelled, of a bright red colour, with a large foul sore upon it. He said he had suffered much on his journey to London. He began to take mercury as soon as I wrote to him, but it had not acted on the system ; he thought, however, that the progress of the sore had been checked by it, but he had suffered in com- ing to town by another cause—be had had an attack of the piles, which came on just before he left the country, and had