ON MORTIFICATION. 153 -whch 1 have just spoken? If you can do this, you can cure hectic fever; but in most instances the local disease is of a very • serious kind, very frequently irremediable, and if you cannot .put a stop to it, you cannot put a stop to the constitutional • symptoms excited by it. You cannot expect that hectic fever will be cured, while the origin of it remains in its full force. :But, in cases where the cause admits of removal, as in severe :disease of a joint (the knee-joint for instance), which can be ■removed by amputation, you will find that all symptoms of hectic will very speedily cease when the cause is cut off. You will tind the pulse will then sink, the appetite be regained, and in fact, health be recovered. Treatment.—What then is the treatment for hectic ? If you regarded it merely as vascular excitement, you would suppose it would be necessary to adopt some measures calculated to rreduce that, but you must take into your consideration the powers of the system. No direct means of this sort could be borne; they would merely lessen the powers of the system, without doing good at all. Your object, then, in that case, is to sustain the strength of the patient—to keep up the powers of • the system by means that do not at the same time excite. You would, then, be inclined to give the lighter kinds of tonic me- idicines, the dilute mineral acids, with bitters, such as bark and ccascarilla gentian. You would let the patient take, according to his appetite, in moderate quantities, light, but nutritious diet. The dilute mineral acids (particularly the dilute sulphuric acid) vpossess as much power as any I am acquainted with, in checking the profuse perspirations during the hours of sleep. '•When the patient gets no rest, and passes uncomfortable nights, •you may occasionally deem it necessary to administer nar- cotics. It is, on the whole, a palliating plan; and, at the same time, you endeavour to administer mild nourishment to sup- port the patient’s strength, and enable him to repair those local injuries, for this is essential to the cure of the fever. Mortification resumed.—I now resume the thread of discourse respecting mortification. Causes.—The causes of mortification are very various; hence the mode of its occurrence, the seat of the affected part, and the whole progress of it, vary much in different instances. Under the head of causes of mortification, we include a great variety of agencies, which are capable of suspending the circulation of a part immediately, or producing such violent disorder in that circulation as will be equal to the suspension of it, the nature of the affection being essentially a cessation of the vital move- ments of the part. Now among those causes, there are some which will surely produce the effect, whenever they are applied