ON THE NATURE AND SEAT OP DISEASES. 23 xial, which is of so much importance to keep up the functions of ail parts of the body. The efl’ect of the change is speedily felt by the brain : whenever the blood sent to it becomes of a dark colour instead of being scarlet, its function is at an end. In both cases we see that a certain change is produced in the living condition of the brain, which suspends its influence over the rest of the body, although there is no alteration in the structure that is ascertainable after death. When, therefore, we speak of diseases being functional, we merely mean to ex- press that they are not accomplished by any change in the state of the organs that is ascertainable by dissection; and we use the word functional in contra-distinction to organic, which denotes visible changes in the organs of the body, ascertainable by dissection after death. That is the sense in which these terms are employed. Now it must be observable, that the words functional and organic, as applied to diseases, are often ujjed rather loosely, and by no means in the strict sense uow mentioned. When tlie brain can be said, strictly speaking, to be under organic disease, it implies changes having taken place in the organ that can be detected after death. But such is not the sense in which the term is commonly employed by the modern writers of this country ; in fact, they range in general, under organic influence, alterations of a temporary kind—for in- stance, that of inflammation. A serious change certainly takes place under the condition of inflammation; but the. change is a transitory one, and may leave the organ in a state of uninterrupted action. Therefore the word organic does not generally comprehend this state, but is used to denote those more serious alterations in the structure of the body which are permanent—which do not admit of change—such as that which takes place iu cancer, ossifleation, tubercles, and changes of that kind. The same looseness of language in this respect is observable in the writers of other countries: thus llicbeiand, in a popular work called Nosographie Chirur- gicale, which has been published in France, divides the dis- eases of all parts of the body into three classes—physical in- juries, 1. Derangement physiques—organic changes, 2. Alter- ation, organiques—vital changes, 3. Lesions vitales. Now, under the latter head, he includes inflammation. The differ- ence between functional and organic diseases has sometimes been marked in our own language by the terms disorder and disease; but this use of these two terms is neither sanctioned by their common acceptation, nor indeed by their etymological signification, for iu all common language disorder and disease are syuonimous—they are used without any distinction, and