TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION; 96 object is to put an end to the inflammation, producing as little subsequent weakness as you can, and 1 think that will be best effected by a large bleeding at flrst. It appears to me, that when you go on taking small quantities of blood, two or three times a day sometimes, as is the case in the continental prac- tice, you weaken the patient very much. In fact, very often, if you take a large quantity of blood in the outset, you do not want to repeat the bleeding again, nor to take any other means; but, in the other case, you go on bleeding day after day, and continue that treatment for a considerable time. I have no hesitation, therefore, in saying, according to my own expe- rience, that the plan of repeated small bleedings accomplishes the cure ultimately at a much greater expense to the constitu- tion than if you took away a large quantity at once. Some years ago I had occasion to attend a young female—a slender girl, in a serious attack of inflammation in the chest. I bled her not very sparingly, and adopted other antiphlogistic treat- ment, but I found it necessary to repeat the bleeding several times ; and after a considerable number of bleedings, the in- flammation was not yet satisfactorily reduced. The symptoms of inflammatory disorder in the chest continued, and I deemed the patient in danger. Still her circulation was reduced to that state in which I could not take more blood from her. I then resorted to the use of digitalis; and, either through the means 1 used, or in consequence of her possessing a pretty good consti- tution, she recovered. It happened two or three years after- wards, that I had occasion to treat her again for a complaint of this kind. She was a servant in a public institution with which I am connected, and I was requested to see her, having been accidentally at the establishment. I had previously seen bar in the course of the week before this occurred. She had wanted a tooth taken out, which I removed for her, and that was attended with a great deal of swelling about the jaw and throat, so that 1 found it necessary to apply leeches to the parts, and to take blood from the arm. At the end of the week in which these means were resorted to, I found her labouring under symptoms of the highest degree or inflammation of the chest. Though she had been attacked only two or three hours when I saw her, the symptoms were very severe ; there was excessive pain, so that she could hardly command her breathing; flush- ing, and great heat over the whole body; white tongue, and a highly-disturbed state of the pulse, full, strong, and very fre- quent; I never saw symptoms proceed to so great a degree in so short a time. The case was very favourable, I thought, for trying depletion to a great extent, 1 therefore bound up her arm and bled her; she was a rather slender, weakish young woman,