332 VENEREAL DISEASE; opinion, that although the cure of primary syphilitic sores could be accomplished without the aid of mercury, yet, that the disease lasted longer—was more tedious than when mercury was em- ployed ; and that also has been the opinion of others who have tried the non-mercurial treatment extensively. Yet, from the experiments that have been made in other instances, it appears that the sores treated without mercury got well, on an average, in a shorter period than those that were treated with it. I al- lude now to some comparisons that have been made in the English army, and also to some that have been made abroad. A report was made by Sir James M‘Gregor, the Director-General of the Army Medical Board, and Sir William Franklin, another member of that Board, of 1940 cases of primary venereal sores that were treated without the use of mercury in the course of two years, and the average period of cure in those cases was twenty-one days where there were sores without bubo; forty- five days, in those cases in which bubo existed with sores. During the same period 2827 cases of primary sores were treated ■with mercury, and they occupied in the cure, on an average, thirty-three days where there were sores without bubo, and fifty days where there was bubo with sores. So that here you observe, in point of duration, there is considerable advantage derived in the treatment of such cases without mercury. In a certain number of cases treated at the hospital called Val de Grace, in Paris, a similar kind of result was obtained •, that is, cut of 1084 cases of primary venereal sores, 38G were treated with mercury, and the average duration of those cases was forty-seven days, without distinguishing whether they had buboes or not; 698 were treated without mercury, and the average duration of those cases was twenty-eight days ; accord- ing to these statements, then, the result, as far as relates to the period occupied in the cure, seems to be much in favour of the treatment without mercury. The cure was more expeditiously effected when the patients were treated without mercury, than when that remedy was adopted. We do not know exactly the grounds on which the choice was made, in those cases that were treated without mercury, and those that were treated with it. Perhaps the two modes of treatment were applied to a different class of cases, so that we do not know whether this gives us a clear view of the average result of the treatment of cases of the like kind ; but looking at it in either way, as 1 said before, the npn-mercurial treatment certainly appears in the most favour- able light. The third question, then, which is a very important one, is, whether the employment of mercury in the treatment of the pri- mary affections, can be considered as at all tending to prevent