AMPUTATION. 21S which of these two periods is the best for the removal of the limb, must, of course, be one of experience. It is not a point to be determined by reasoning;, but by observing, a priori, what actually takes place in a great number of instances, by comparing the results of a large number of cases in which the limb may be removed immediately after the accident, with the results of a similar number of operations in which it has been deferred, until the local inflammation has subsided, and then seeing under which plan the greater number of lives is saved. Now the result of experience on this point is decisive, and that proves very clearly that early amputation is the best, and, in my own opinion, the result of experience corresponds with the dictates of reason. If, indeed, we were to rely merely on the latter, I think we should arrive at the same conclusion that experience points out. Why do you determine on removing a limb under such circumstances? Because you think that the nature nf the accident is such as to endanger the life of the in- dividual. You would not remove the limb, unless you sup- posed life to be in danger. Life would be in danger by the occurrence of traumatic gangrene, which would carry off the patient very quickly, by the violent local inflammation and serious febrile disturbance of the system consequent upon it. Now if you defer the amputation until a distant period, you give the patient the chance of dying before the time of ope- rating arrives. By operating immediately you save the patient from the risk which these occasion •, but, by delay, you expose him to the approach of death; he may not live to the time ap- pointed for the secondary or deferred amputation. As a reason for delay, it is said, that patients in strong health do not bear operations so well as those that have been previously reduced. This, as a general proposition, may be admitted to be true, but still it is not the proper ground for de- ciding the question in such cases; the question is, whether out of an equal number of patients on whom amputation has been performed, in consequence of serious gun-shot wounds, immediately after the injury, and another number on whom the operation has been deferred to a remote period,—whether you save the greater number of patients out of the former or out of the latter;—whether the patients will go through the operation of immediate amputation, or whether they will go through it better after they have endured the inflammation, the fever, aud the various consequences resulting from the injury ? That is the true question. Now, if we observe the results in instances in which a large number of amputations has been performed under both these circumstances, we shall find them decidedly in favour of early amputation. After the battle of