235 BURNS. uilceratiou and suppuration commence. I remember, not very long ago,having iu this hospital two instances of men who had •scalded the lower extremities very extensively, in both of whom, when matter began to be discharged from the surface of 'the wounds, there was violent febrile disturbance, and it was ■necessary to bleed them very largely, and repeatedly. In the progress of those cases towards cure, when ulceration commences, and when the parts that have lost their vitality are thrown off by this process, you will find that the completion of tihe cure takes place with very different degrees of rapidity. It ■sometimes happens, particularly in scalds, that the external stratum of skin loses its vitality, and sloughs, but that the ■sloughing process does not extend through the whole thickness of the skin ; there is only a destruction of a part of the surface. lUnder such circumstances the ulcer which is left after the de- tachment of the superficial slough, is, in fact, only an ulcer of -part of the skin, and as soon as such slough is detached, you will find that, almost immediately, the surface of such a sore will heal. In fact, this is not like an ordinary sore, which can only commence healing from the edges; it is only a sore of cpart of the skin, and you will frequently see ulcers of very igreat extent under such circumstances, perhaps double the size ' •of the palm of your hand, cicatrise over in twenty-four hours. ’'Now, in those instances in which the whole of the skin is de- faced, so that the loose cellular membrane is exposed, you find that the production of loose granulations is very great; that those granulations are very exuberant. They arise above the - surrounding skin, and difficulty is experienced in keeping them down, and, consequently, in effecting cicatrisation. Indeed, I do not know any case that is more tedious in healing than a burn of that kind. It is necessary you should pay particular attention to the ^position of the affected part, in many instances of burns. You will recollect that the granulations which are produced in healing a sore, become absorbed after the cicatrisation has been accomplished ; then the parts are contracted, and, consequently, when any part of the body is burnt where there is a bend, as there is at a joint, you will find, that if you allow that part to remain in the bent position, this contraction and absorption of the granulations will unite the two portions of the limb toge- ther in such a way, as to fix them permanently in the bent po- sition, and thus to produce not only a degree of deformity, but a very serious dimiuution of the action of the joints afterwards. If you were to allow the fore-arm and nrm to remain bent when the two surfaces were in a state of granulation, they would UUite together by the inosculation of the granulations, to a very