INFLAMMATION, 58 tion is seated in a glandular organ. It has been said, that that arises from spasm in the minute vessels of the part. Now it does not appear to me to be necessary to recur to this explana- tion. The ordinary office of the capillary vessels of a gland is to secrete, but, in a state of inflammation, they are unnatu- rally disturbed ; they are too active and busy in their new occupation, to carry on the old one. That there can be no spasm is pretty clear, from the effusion of lymph into the inter- stices of the part. Unless the vessels were open, this effusion could not take place. Being unable to determine the precise nature of inflammation from the changes that take place, or to assign to it a term founded on the state of the vessels which produce these phenomena, we have been obliged here, as in other cases, to denominate inflammation symptomatically. Inflammation, from the term flamma, a flame, denotes the beat which usually accompanies it in external parts. If, then, we have been unable to discover the precise nature of inflam- mation, which is of so common occurrence, and which consti- tutes so large a portion of all the diseases we treat, you will not be astonished that the attempts to construct nosologies, grounded on the nature of diseases, should have altogether failed. The four circumstances I formerly enumerated must be com- bined together, in order to characterise inflammation ; taken separately, they afford no proof of its existence. Redness oc- curs in blushing. It may be produced by mechanical friction, and yet there is no inflammation. You may make a part of the body hotter than natural, by rubbing it or exposing it to fire, without causing inflammation. Again, you may have great swelling, as in anasarca, without inflammation. You may likewise have great pain in a variety of complaints, where there is nothing like inflammation present. In order, therefore, to characterise inflammation, we must have these four circum- stances all combined, and existing at the same time. When they are seen together, they certainly prove that inflammation is present, but they are not essential toproving its existence; that is, we recognise the existence of inflammation where we cannot see these four circumstances. The existence of these circumstances proves inflammation to have reached a certain height, but slighter degrees of the same disturbance may exist without them. If you have a very violent degree of disturb- ance in the capillary vessels, you will have that part swelled, red, hot, and painful; but under many circumstances, inter- stitial depositions, and the consequent changes which it pro- duces, namely, thickening, induration, consolidation, and opacity, afford the only criterion, and we find them a satis-