104 TREATMENT OP INFLAMMATION; classed it among those medicines which they call contra- stimulants; the word contra-stimulant being pretty similar, if not exactly, to our technical term of antiphlogistic. Contra- stimulant, gentlemen, is a Latin phrase, which signifies that which is opposed to, or designed to check stimulus; and in- flammation being the result of stimulus, it therefore means that whieh reduces or lessens the cause of inflammation. An- tiphlogistic is derived from the] Greek, to burn,—to inflame, and therefore means the same as the Latin, that which is opposed to or designed to check inflammation. This medicine, that is, emetic tartar, is made use of by the Italian physicians, not in grain nor half-grain doses, but to the extent of a scruple, to a drachm and a half; and, they say, it does not in these quantities cause either vomiting or purging, and though frequently the first does so, yet after this the stomach receives it without repugnance, and in many cases it reduces inflammation without producing any evacuation, either from the stomach or bowels. I have in many cases tried its effects in this way, by giving a grain and a half, repeated every two hours, and after eight or ten doses I have increased it to two grains ; and in these instances I have found its effects to be as above described. In many cases of inflammation, particularly of the chest, and in violent phrenitis, its exhibition in this way has saved the loss of blood to a very great extent. There is another remedy of considerable power in the treat- ment of inflammation, although it acts quite differently from the tartrate of antimony, and that is mercury, more especially calomel. It has long been ascertained by general experience, that the free exhibition of calomel, after direct depletion, has a very favourable effect in expediting recovery, and in preventing those changes in structure, which inflammation frequently produces. This is a matter that has been observed generally, without much attempt to explain it, or to reason upon it. Thus we may say, that after the free employment of the lancet, after evacuating the alimentary canal, and after using those general depletions I have mentioned, calomel may be given in doses of two, three, four, or five grains, und repeated every six or eight hours, till the patieut has taken some considerable quantity of it. It has been observed, particularly in instances where the calomel thus administered has affected the mouth, that perhaps the progress of recovery has not been at all re- tarded, but rather accelerated. If this general observation be well founded, that is, if calomel administered in this way has the effect of preventing changes of structure, and thus expe- diting recovery, it is of course a very interesting matter to inquire, how these purposes are accomplished ?