HECTIC FEVER. 152 of the local symptoms, there is a corresponding alteration in the constitutional disorder. The local disease has renounced its acute, and assumed a kind of chronic character; and a similar alterations occuis in the febrile symptoms. The patient now bceomes hectic, that is, he has what we may call a kind of chronic fever. In hectic, too, whether it come on in consequence of the changed state of the local affection proceeding from a severe iujury, whether it be connected with the irritation arising in the cyst of the chronic abscess, or whether it depend ou a slow disease in some important organ of the body (such as the lungs or a joint); we find that there is considerable disturbance in the circulation, and that the pulse is accelerated, though feeble. It varies from a hundred to a hundred and twenty and up- wards; and it often remains for weeks and even months at one hundred and twenty, without sinking below that point. The patient sometimes feels heated, sometimes chilled. The surface of the body is now red and ffushed, now pallid and cold, and frequently it is bathed in profuse perspiration. Slight degrees of excitement are sufficient to bring on flushings, which induce perspirations. The tongue is moist, and perhaps clean ; the functions of the digestive organs are more or less disturbed, and towards the latter part of the affection, a diarrhoea comes on, which can hardly be restrained by any means we may employ. The perspirations in the latter stage of hectic are very profuse, and the discharge by the bowels is also very excessive ; and hence we have the terms colliquative sweats—colliquative diarrhoea, which merely mean melting, as if the body were melting away under the profuse discharges by which it is drained. Great restlessness and discomfort at night are also attendants on the debilitated patient. Now the symptoms of hectic do not remain at the same de- gree during the whole four-and-twenty hours; on the contrary, there is a very striking exacerbation towards evening, and an equally well-marked remission of symptoms in the morning. Towards evening, the pulse becomes accelerated, the body heated, the patient feels restless and uncomfortable, and in the course of the night he probably becomes bathed in profuse sweats, the disturbance terminating in that manner. In the morning he is comparatively free from fever, and so remains some part of the day. Such are the principal stages of that condition which constitutes hectic fever. It has been the subject of doubt, whether hectic fever can be cured ? The real question is—whether you can cure the dis- ease that causes the symptoms—whether you can remove that ocal excitement which produces the general disturbance of