INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. 5 guished, in the reign of George II. The union of the two callings still exists in many parts of Europe. In order to judge whether there is any well-grounded dif- ference between physic and surgery, it is necessary to advert shortly to the nature of medical science and practice generally. The numerous individual organs, which make up the human body, although various in structure and office, are all inti- mately connected and mutually dependent. They are merely subordinate parts of one great machine, and they all concur, each in its own way, in producing one general result, the life of the individual. All the leading arrangements are calculated to give a character of unity to the organisation and the living actions of our frame. There is a common source of nutrition for the whole body; a single centre of circulation ; a common place of union for all sensatious and volitions—for nervous eneigy of whatever kind. The various organs are not only intimately connected by the share which they severally take in executing associated and mutually dependent functions, they act and re-act on each other, often very powerfully, by those mysterious, or at least hitherto imperfectly-known influ- ences, which we call sympathies. Hence the expression of Hippocrates, in relation to the human body, i3 perfectly cor- rect : Labor unus; consentientia omnia. (One exertion ; all parts concurring.) You could form no adequate notion of any organ, or system of organs, if you insulated it from the rest of the body, any more than you could estimate the use of ac- tion of aDy single wheel or lever detached from a watch or a steam engine. As the animal machine, although complicated in structure, is single, and as its living motions, although numerous and in- tricate, form one indivisible series, so a similar connexion runs through those changes of structure and functions which constitute disease: hence there is one anatomy and physio- logy, and there can be only one pathology. If we wish to know any portion of the body, we must not only carefully examine the part itself, but survey the relations of structure and function which bind it to the rest; and, if we investigate any class of diseases, we must consider, not only the local symptoms, but also the disturbance which the diseased organs may excite in other parts of the frame, and the influence which Other parts may exert over the seat of disease. It must be the first business of the medical student to learn the structure of the body and its living actions; that is, to study man in the state of health. These are the objects of the two sciences, which are denominated anatomy and physiology. He then proceeds to the observation of diseases; he notices