ULCERATION. 191 twenty-five, typhus fever would break out in the ward. The extra crowding- together of the patients produced that particular noxious affection which I have mentioned. It happened to me, not long ago, to have a young woman under my care, who had sloughing phagedena—a very bad case—in this hospital. ' The application of the nitric acid had the usual beneficial effect, and the ease was going on very favourably. She was placed in one of what we call the double wards. It was necessary that one of the wards should be white-washed and cleansed; and consequently, although the patients were pretty numerous in the ward in which she was, a certain additional number was put into it, so that, in the ward which should have contained only fourteen, there were, perhaps, eighteen or nine- teen. In two or three days, this young woman, who was going on well, experienced a relapse; the state of sloughing again occurred, so that it was necessary to remove her from that situation. This condition of sore, then, called hospital gangrene, is to be regarded as the effect of a local influence, as it appears to me to be produced by external local causes, and not in any way ascribable to the condition of any organ or organs of the sys- tem. The part in which this particular condition takes place, becomes painful; then it becomes inflamed, and then it passes pretty much into the state 1 have mentioned. The granula- tions cease. A pus—a yellowish viscid matter, rises above the level of the surrounding part, forming a covering to the sore; and under this external covering the ulcerative process extends very quickly, and destroys the part in which it is seated with great rapidity. Although the patient’s health has not been previously disturbed, of course the occurrence of so serious a local mischief disturbs the health at last. The digestive organs suffer sympathetically. The patient, in the first place, has these organs disturbed, and in the progress of the affection his strength generally suffers. If there is any thing of a contagious nature in this affection, it is of course very important in treating it, that those who are infected should be separated and removed from the rest of the patients, in order to prevent the propagation of the affection to others. Perhaps it is a point not yet clearly made out, whether > the phagedenic sore and the sloughing phagedena are capable of influencing others by propagation, or whether the circum- stance of their arising in several individuals at the same time, ■ occurs from those persons being exposed to the same cause. We have not an opportunity of seeing much of this kind in a hospital like this, for the wards being large, very aity, and not crowded, the circumstances which occasion the affection do not