scrofula. 264- seldom terminates in mortification; indeed, I fancy it never does so, simply by the violence of inflammatory action; for scrofulous inflammation, when decidedly marked as such, does not seem to permit of that high degree of local action which is necessary for such a purpose ; yet, in parts that are affected with scrofula, we sometimes see a portion of them deficient of vita- lity, and converted into a fibrous dense kind of substance, which separates much in the same way as a slough does from other pans: it is a kmd of loss of vitality taking place in scro- fula peculiar to that form and manner of disease. Chronic in- flammation is a very frequent form of disease in scrofulous subjects. In scrofulous inflammation there is little redness of the part, sometimes none, but considerable increase in its size. The bulk of the part is augmented often with very little injury to the functions of the organs ; and an increase in size goes on for a considerable length of time, without producing any such change as is seriously inconvenient to the patient. Wlien scrofula attacks the internal organs, those of a glan- dular structure, and others, it frequently forms small swellings called tubercles. Tuber means swelling, and tubercle is the derivative of tuber, meaning a little swelling. These tubercles consist of small masses disseminated throughout the part af- fected; theyincrease in size ; those which are contiguous join, coalesce, and assume a greyish colour; they become softened and loosened in texture, and then a kind of suppuration takes place, that is, the tubercular matter is loosened and comes away, and a peculiar suppuration takes place in the part; the tuber- cular matter becomes detached, and in this way an extensive disease goes on. This is most commonly seen in the lungs ; and we often find that nearly the whole of those organs become destroyed in consequence of this peculiar change. Rut such tubercular degenerations are seen in otherviscera—the liver, the brain, and sometimes the spleen : and, indeed, in all the inter- nal organs. Scrofulous ulceration is a languid and inactive process, with a thin, and, generally, sparing discharge. The surface of the sore is pale or livid, and there is no appearance of granulation, nor any production of substance to fill up the ulcerated chasm. The margin of the sore may be smooth, red, or livid. Some- times the basis and the edges of the sore are raised; in fact, there is an increased deposition in the part, but it is not of that healthy kind which leads to the restorative process. Such ul- cerations take place either in scrofulous abscess, or, inde- pendently of it, in every part of the skin. The parts which are most subject to scrofulous disease, are, in the first place, the absorbent glauds, more particularly those