7 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. often the secondary disease thus produced attracts more atten- tion than the original complaint itself. A person has an affec- tion of the head, which may be produced by various causes, and, within a short time, the circulating system, the digestive organs, and the secretions, become deranged, and he is in a state of continued fever,—another individual receives an injury —inflammation is set up in the part, and in a short time the same febrile disturbance arises. The patient has a sympathe- tic fever in both cases, and the latter disease seems of more consequence than the former. Again, although individual organs are numerous, the ele- ments of organic structure are few. The various proportions in which they are combined make the difference, as the various combinations of a few letters produce the infinite variety of words. The basis of nearly all parts consists of the cellular, vascular, absorbent, and nervous structures. Hence, patholo- gical principles are the same for all parts, and, consequently, treatment must be similar throughout. When diseases are arranged in any form, you may strike a line through, so as to divide the mass into two halves, give them different names, and call them distinct branches of science, but they will re- semble each other in all essential points: the causes, origin, course, and treatment of the diseases comprehended under each, will be the same. If you must have a division, sepa- rate the two sides of the body, or the upper and lower halves. This will, at least, be clear and intelligible. To assert that surgery and physic are essentially distinct, is to say that there aTe two kinds of pathology ; that the external and internal parts are to be treated on different principles. It would be as rational to say that there are two kinds of physiology, one for the outside, another for the inside, of the body. When you know that the component tissues, or the organic elements of our frame, are the same throughout, can you suppose that the position of a part in the body can alter the nature and treat- ment of disease ? It may cause differences in the mode of proceeding ; thus you cannot act locally on internal parts ; it may make the pathological investigation of one organ more difficult or easy than that of another; but it cannot alter essential principles. Inflammation, for instance, is the same kind of disturbance, whether in an internal or external part, and we treat it exactly on the same piinciples, whether it be in theeye, breast, or testicle ; in the heart, lungs, or liver. The principles of pathology, therefore, are general; they are the same tor all parts of the medical art. They result from our knowledge of health and disease generally, and must, there- fore, be common to the physician and surgeou- Hence we