INFLAMMATION ; 114 of tonics. Thus we administer, in such cases, columba, gen- tian, cascarilla in combination with rhubarb, or the alkalies, soda, potass, or the subcarbonate of ammonia. I had occasion to mention to you, in speaking of the choice of aperients, that those which are of a warm nature, are advantageous, and that rhubarb, with aloes, for instance, of equal parts, are particu- larly recommended ; the infusion of the former with the com- pound decoction of aloes, and taking a draught of that kind once a day, or twice a day, if it should be necessary. I also spoke to you, in the last lecture, of the employment of mercury as a remedy in inflammation, after the previous use of evacuations, for the purpose of preventing those changes of structure which the interstitial deposition connected with in- flammation so frequently produces. The same treatment is to be kept in view in chronic inflammation ; and, without ad- verting to the mode in which the effect is produced, common experience has led medical men to regard mercury as having great power in removing chronic inflammation in a part. In- deed, in certain instances, we see considerable enlargement of parts got rid of by the employment of mercury. This is parti- cularly obvious in the case of the testicle. There are certain inflamed enlargements of the testicle, the result of simple chro- nic inflammation, and which the use of mercury, carried to the extent of producing some effect on the system, speedily dispels, after they have been there for some time ; and no doubt the same is applicable to other chronic enlargements in other parts of the body. When individuals have been the subject of disease already, even although that disease should be put a stop to, it is of great importance to adopt such measures as may prevent its recurrence; hence the regulation of diet is a matter of conse- quence after disease is at an end, and the principles which are applicable to that consideration, are of course of equal import- ance to the healthy, as a mode of preventing the occurrence of disease at all. I imagine we may lay it down as a general rule, that the best thing for health is, for persons to work hard and to live temperately ; unluckily this is very opposite to the natural disposition of mankind, who are much inclined to be temperate in work, and to live hard, that is, to eat and drink a great deal. I remember hearing that a gentleman of large for- tune, a strong robust man, went to consult the late Dr. Gre- gory, of Edinburgh. He bad recounted a great many ailments, all of which could be referred to this sort of indulgence ; and he ended by entreating, that the doctor would consider his case attentively, and tell him what would make him well. The doctor said that he understood the case, and could tell him