WOUNDS RECEIVED IN DISSECTION. 259 morning of the 1st of January, the fourth day after sewing up the body. Now, in this case there certainly was a remarkable effect produced very rapidly 5 a chain of serious effects on the animal economy, by which, in the space of four days, death was produced in an individual previously healthy. A gentle- man, who was a few years ago a dresser at this hospital, an individual not very exemplary in his mode of living, being apt to indulge in the pleasures of the table, and not quite a pattern of regularity, opened a body, in the course of which he slightly pricked himself in one of his lingers. It happened, that on the day on which this occurred, he had a large party of friends at his house, and that he drank very freely. In the course of the night he was awoke with excessive pain in the finger, and before the middle of the following day, the last phalanx of his finger had mortified. Swelling of the finger, of part of the hand, and of the limb generally, inflammation of the absorb- ents, and of the absorbent glands, took place, and thus consi- derable fever, combined with phlegmonous inflammation of the hand, fore-arm, and arm, occurred, and the patient was in a state of the greatest danger. However, by making large inci- sions through the skin and cellular membrane, he recovered. Now it is to be observed, in the first of the cases I have men- tioned, that of the physician who examined the body of the lady, and who died in four days afterwards, and in many other of the most serious cases that are recorded, the injury had been received in the examination of patients who had died of in- flammation of the peritoneum, and more particularly of puer- peral peritonitis; so that if there be any poisouous influence capable of being communicated to the body, it would seem to be more especially from the bodies of individuals who have died of this kind of disease. In the cases of these two indivi- duals, however, we have instances in which, on the one hand, mortification took place at a very early period, and was soon followed by death ; and, on the other, of mortification followed by recovery. Now, so far as the mere occurrence of mortification, conse- quent on an injury, goes, I do not deem it to be a sufficient proof of the operation of any poison. I remember very well a butcher’s boy being brought into this hospital and placed under my care, whose hand had been pierced by a hook, which had torn away a large triangular flap in the palm of the hand. It had not merely torn the skin, but both the skin and cellular membrane, making a flap which one would have expected to unite very well to the subcutaneous parts; yet, in that case, the flap mortified, though the wound was produced merely by a hook ; so that the mere mortification docs not prove that any s 2