343 SECONDARY SYMPTOMS. of interstitial deposition. These then, are the common appear- ances of constitutional syphilis, or lues venerea, as it is called : vaiious eruptions of the skin ; various ulcerations ; ulcerations of the mucous membrane of the fauces, and of the neighbouring parts of the mouth; pains and swellings; pains of the limbs and joints ; and swellings of the joints, periosteum, and bones ; iritis frequently taking place in conjunction with affections of the skin. There are other forms of secondary syphilis, which are less common. Sometimes the lining membrane of the meatus auditorius becomes inflamed, and a thick purulent discharge takes place from it, accompanied generally with deafness. Sometimes a chronic swelling of the testicle occurs ; the testicle becomes enlarged, becomes hardened, and is usually irregular and tuberculated on its surface, attended by considerable pain. Commonly only one testicle is affected, sometimes both. When the bones of the body are affected, it is not uncommon to have those of the nose and of the palate suffering. Probably the affection in the nose is in its nature similar to that which takes place in the shin bone; considerable pain is experienced in the part; the membrane covering it becomes ulcerated, por- tions of the bone come away, and fetididischarge takes place. Sometimes the affection of the throat spreads to the larynx ; and this, in fact, is a very serious extension of the disease. When we see how close the mucous membrane of the larynx is to the mucous lining of the throat, which is so commonly the seat of syphilitic disease, we are, perhaps, rather inclined to wonder that this extension does not take place more frequently, it is, however, not a very common occurrence. Syphilis does, indeed, sometimes extend into the larynx, and sometimes ue- crosis—partial death of the cartilages of the larynx, takes place. The affection here is very serious, as all affections are in those parts where they are capable of interfering with the respiratory functions ; it must be very' serious—it endangers the life of the patient. Such are the various affections which make up con. stitutional syphilis or lues venerea. Now, we observe, in gene- ral, that these show themselves first in the skin ; often, at the same time that they show themselves in the skin, they appear also in the throat, the eye being frequently involved, iritis being added, together with pains in the limbs and in the joints ; that is the combination of symptoms which usually exhibits itself in the first instance, when the disease extends further than its primary seat. The bones, the nose, and the joints, are usually affected at a remoter period. Mr. Hunter divides the parts affected by constitutional sy- philis into two classes ; be calls one the first order of parts, and