233 SCALDS. ,tf is laborious; the pulse becomes irregular; coldness and ubiverings are produced; there is excessive thirst; and, in fact, i;.he patient sinks in a few days, in consequence of the injury. 'Where the symptoms are not such as to endanger life, there unay be very serious injury produced to the parts which are t-ournt. Hence deformity may ensue, or the office of the part t nay be considerably impaired. Deformity and impeded motion, cor function, therefore, are found, very frequently, to take place .-'rom burns where life is not at all in danger. Treatment.—In the treatment of burns, so far as the local naanagement goes, two apparently opposite plans are frequently baad recourse to. In the first place, when the injury is slight and superficial, we apply cold. If heat have been applied to a i jart of the body, so as to produce inflammation of the skin “without vesication, the application of cold will, perhaps, check idle progress of the inflammation, prevent vesication, and occa- sion a speedy disappearance of all effects. Cold water, satur- ..aine lotion, and vinegar and water, may be applied for these purposes. Sometimes it has been proposed to use spirit and tether, in order to increase the evaporation. Scraped potatoe is n popular mode of applying cold'to the surface in cases of this i.cind. If, in consequence of the cold, the patient becomes chilled, and is inconvenienced, of course it must be discon- tinued. You may then employ, particularly if vesication have taken place, or ulceration be likely to follow, either a soft /poultice, or the common application to a burn, that is, the iiquor calcis, (a mixture of lime-water and olive oil), which ,keeps the part in a very comfortable state. It is often a question, whether yon ought to open vesicles or deave them untouched. The truth is, I believe, that this is a /point very often of little consequence, if you do not detach the entire skin. If inflammation go on, ulceration will be pro- duced ; the opening of the vesication is of no particular ad- .vantage. Now, in many serious cases of burns, there is very cou- •siderable depression of the powers of the system. The pulse -sinks and becomes feeble. There are coldness and shiver- ings. In fact, that state is produced in which the applica- tion of cold is quite out of the question. Nobody would think of applying cold to a patient in the state in which be is often found after a severe and extensive burn; it would be the ■way to extinguish the feeble remnants of vitality to a certainty. /Here the state of the system is the main object of attention. If you have a slight superficial burn, you attend merely to the jlocal treatment, that is the only point about which you need be anxious ; but when you have got an extensive injury, and the