ON MORTIFICATION. 1 59 t by any agency they convey to the living parts over which mor- tification is impending. The internal treatment would, of course, be various, accord- ing to the condition of the general symptoms. In the case of .sacute inflammation, you may have to employ antiphlogistic cmeans. In a case where the symptoms have assumed the typhoid character already mentioned, you would employ means of quite u contrary kind. Bark, stimuli, wine, brandy—all .means, both dietetic and medicinal, which are capable of sup- sporting the strength of the patient, become necessary. Under such circumstances, however, we cannot lay down any one ■general plan. We come now to the third indication—the means of favour- ing the separation of the dead parts from the living. While the ^mortification is extending, we cannot accurately trace the boun- dary between the dead and the living parts; they seem to be confounded. At all events, near the edge of what we conceive to be the dead p trt, we find that the living parts, if not actually black or brownish, are perhaps of a dark livid tint, and seem just passing into the more decided colour which indicates mor- ttification. The surrounding living parts are perhaps vesicated; ■ the cuticle is raised by serous fluid under it, and it is by this process mortification creeps on, attacking fresh parts in succes- sion. But, when it is stopped, we see a distinct edge pointing out the part; and we see the immediate portion adjoining that '.distant edge, assuming a brightisb-red colour. In fact, the :boundary of mortification manifestly shows the occurrence of inflammation, and then the absorbents begin to perform the act of separation. An ulcerated line occurs at this part, which .gradually deepens, and thus the mortified part is by degrees separated. Now, in order to favour, by local application, this process, all we can do, in general, is to keep the part at rest, and to keep it covered by a soft warm poultice. I believe bread, or linseed, answers the purpose. Sometimes it appears that the natural process by which the separation is effected, docs not go on so actively as is desirable ; that the living parts vwhich adjoin the dead are languid; and that the separation is better under the employment of local stimuli. An old appli- cation of this kind consists in the admixture of yeast, or .grounds of stale beer, with bread or linseed powder, to make a poultice, which is called the effervescing cataplasm, or yeast poultice; and this may be employed more effectually by using oatmeal, instead of bread or linseed meal; yeast is employed instead of water. The dilute uitric acid lotion may be occa- sibnally applied along the boundary between the dead and living parts; under such circumstances, four, six, or ten drops.