VENEREAL DISEASE. 295 have just mentioned. The secondary symptoms were of the most severe kind, and extremely intractable. If we look at cases of syphilis collectively, we should say that, although it is a disease of an intiainmatory character, it is rather chronic than acutethat the inflammation is not high— not rapid in its progress—not attended with serious constitu- tional disturbance; yet particular symptoms, of high inflamma- tory action, often show themselves, attended, frequently, with well-marked fever. Respecting the natural course and terminations of this dis- ease, the most erroneous opinions have prevailed, even until quite modern times. It has been represented that syphilis is regularly destructive in its nature; that it destroys by ulceration the particular organ in which it is seated ; that it proceeds from one part to another with unrelenting fury, according to the descriptions of some, and that in fact its ravages can only be controlled by mercury; that if mercury be not employed, it certainly proceeds to the destruction of the individual in whom it takes place. Such is the common picture given of syphilis. This, in fact, was the general opinion entertained of the nature of disease, at the time when Mr. Abernethy published his observations on diseases resembling venereal; and, before he published that treatise, he took the pains of applying to several of the most eqiinent surgeons in London, to ascertain their opinious upon the subject. Amongst that number were Mr. Cline, and Mr. John Pearson—two gentlemen, in whose expe- rience and judgment the public placed the greatest confidence. Now, all those to whom be applied were unanimous in their opinion, that the action of syphilis was regularly progressive ; that it destroyed the parts in which it was seated ; that it pro- ceeded from part to part, destroying as it went, until it proved fatal to the individual, unless timely stopped by mercury ; and that mercury was the only means by which its ravages could be put an end to. Now the experience of the last few years has sufficed entirely to overthrow this generally-received notion. It has since been made out very clearly, that every symptom of syphilis can be removed without mercury, that there is not a single symptom of the disease which may not, if left entirely to itself, come to a natural conclusion—wear itself out— without destroying the individual. Indeed, so great lias been the revolution of opinion on this subject, that some persons, and those of considerable experience and judgment, have adopted the opinion that the mercury which is used for the primary, is the source of a great part of the secoudaiy, symp- toms j and they have proscribed the use of it entirely from their practice. The former, however, I should mention to you, had