192 ULCERATION. exist here; but in some cases, where we have had persons with large phagedenic affections admitted into the wards, we have seen other patients, with common ulcers, who have lain near or contiguous to these individuals, have their sores go into an unhealthy state. This has happened in so many instances under my own observation, in my' own wards, that I cannot help]thinking there is some contagious influence exerted; that there is some contagious property in this sloughing phagedena capable of affecting others. At all events it is expedient, when this complaint occurs, to disperse patients who are congregated together, and separate those who are affected from those who are not. The treatment is just the same, in other respects, as that of sloughing phagedena. You have to destroy the morbid surface by some adequately powerful escbarotic. The nitric or muriatic acid. Pure potash or the lunar caustic is not powerful enough. Stroug vinegar has been recommended, but that is not sufficient. Caustic or potash will hardly act sufficiently through the pecu- liarly hard viscid mass which covers the sore. The nitric or muriatic acid, therefore, is the substance to be relied on. Professor Delpech, of Montpelier, who had an opportunity of seeing a great many cases of this kind towards the close of the last war, when hostilities were carrying on in the south of Prance, states that he had received one hundred and fifty soldiers with this affection, who had been wounded at the siege of Pampelutia, I think it was, and that he healed them all by the actual cautery. There is no doubt but that would be sufficient to accomplish the purpose. It does not matter what the precise process made use of is, the object being to adopt means sufficiently powerful to destroy that morbid growth on the surface; and thus to allow the formation of healthy granu- lating surface beneath it; and this, combined with the removal of the patient from those external influences which seem to have the power of producing the disease, may be relied upon as sufficiently effectual in curing it, and preventing its re- currence.