353 SECONPARY SYMPTOMS. primary forms, as in the cases of eruptions or any other charac- ters of syphilis ; but, independently of that where nodes, that is, inflammation of the periosteum, arise independently of syphilitic affection, I do not know any more powerful mode of combating them, after the use of antiphlogistic means, than the employment of mercury, so as to affect the system. The affec- tion of the joints generally takes place in the protracted states of syphilitic disease; and some of the most troublesome of those cases occur in the advanced periods of phagedenic syphilitic disease. You frequently find the synovial membrane of the great joints, such as the knee-joint,swells, and that the joint itself enlarges from the deposition that takes place. You might infer that the local abstraction of blood by cupping, or leeches, would be of advantage in such a case. Sometimes it does good, but you cannot rely, under such circumstances, upon the abstraction of blood as a means of alleviating the affection as fully as you could when the joints are the seat of the affection, and when the synovial membrane becomes in- flamed from other causes. I think blistering is most beneficial in those cases; and blistering is also resorted to with advan- tage in the cases of obstinate venereal affections of the perios- teum. In reference to these pains in the joints, and of the limbs generally, and also to the venereal eruption, much good is, in many instances, derived from the warm bath, and this is a remedy which may be combined with any of the other modes of treatment to which we are in the habit of resorting. The affection of the testicle is not one of the more frequent forms of the syphilitic disease; we see it occasionally. I do not know that this affection of the testicle occurs particularly in conjunction with any of the forms of the disease I have men- tioned, though I think we seldom see it alone; we usually find it occurring with some other secondary symptom, and the co- existence of it tends to assist our diagnosis. The affection of the testicle consists in a moderate enlargement of it, with indu- ration, general enlargement and swelling, so that there is a kind of knotty enlargement existing, with no very active inflamma- tion, no redness of the scrotum, nor is the testicle very large. I think I have invariably found that this particular symptom is removed most effectually by the employment of mercury. The affection of the nose, like that of the bones, has beeu considered of late, by those who have entertained strong notions against the use of mercury, to be an effect resulting from the administration of mercury. Now, I believe, no one has ever heard any body say that he has seen an affection of the nose arising in persons who have employed mercury for any other purpose than that of overcoming the venereal disease. I have A A