ON MORTIFICATION. 162 grene consequent on a wound—gangrene of an entire limb, produced by violent local injury. You may judge of the rapidity of the affections in those cases from what is mentioned by Larrey, who has given several eases he has observed principally of gun-shot wounds. He says he has seen, in some instances, the process of mortification reach the trunk within six hours after the injury happened. Under these circumstances, if such a case be left to itself, death is inevitable. The one question is, whether, provided wc see the case sufficiently early, we may attempt to save the patient by amputation? As for waiting for a boundary, waiting for a cessation of the mortification here, that is quite out of the question. If you do that, the patient is lost. This, therefore, is a case in which it becomes questionable, whether we ought to adhere to the general rule I had previously laid down to you. Now we must consider, not merely the state of mortifica- tion of the limb, but also the condition of the patient’s consti- tution in whom it occurs. There are certain individuals of bad constitution, in whom traumatic gangrene may take place, and in whom the mere state of the constitution alone, inde- pendent of serious local injury, would be a sufficient objection to the performance of an operation. I mentioned to you, in a former lecture, having seen one of Whitbread’s draymen, in whom, from a simple graze on the shin, mortification had ex- tended, in eight-and-forty hours, to the whole of the limb : in an individual in whom so serious an effect could be produced from so slight a cause, amputation would be out of the ques- tion. About three or four weeks since, 1 was sent for into the country, to see a gentleman, without being aware of the case I should have to witness ; and I was surprised, on going into the room, at the look of the patient. He began to speak to me, but he appeared to be hardly able sufficiently to command the muscles about his face, to enable him to make the statement he desired. I put my hand on the pulse,and found it sinking, the hand was cold. I found he had an affection of the other arm which I was desirous of looking at; when it was exposed I saw that it was livid, found it cold, and the process of morti- fication extending up the whole arm. On inquiring into what had occurred in this case, I found that the gentleman was not aware of any thing to account for the state of this limb, except that some one who passed him in the street had struck him on the elbow a few days before. He had applied to a medical man, who had sent his assistant, and he, not thinking there was much the matter, had applied some leeches. The medical gentleman, however, by whose desire I was requested to see the patient, had not himself seen the patient till within less