INFLAMMATION, 60 called also active, violent, or phlegmonous inflammation. The term phlegmonous is frequently employed ; it is derived from the Greek word phlegmon, and is the term applied by writers to the active form of inflammation seated in the cellular membrane and skin, which terminates in abscess. In this, the characters I have described are particularly well marked. The description that has been given of inflammation of the hand, will suffi- ciently show what is acute, active, or phlegmonous inflamma- tion : it is a violent disturbance which cannot last very long. Unless it is cut short by proper treatment, it will soon produce either mortification or suppuration. It is too violent a disturb- ance to last for any length of time: like a very violent fire, it will soon burn itself out. Chronic is also called languid, sloio, or indolent, and its characters vary much from those of the acute. The vascular disturbance and redness are much less ; often there are hardly any, and the pain is slight. Frequently chronic inflammation will take place, proceed to a considerable extent, and last for some time, before the patient is aware of its existence. But though the chronic may appear to be of much less consequence than the acute ; in this view, consider- ing it in artother way, it is of much more importance. The swelling of the parts from interstitial deposition is much more, and consequently, there is a much more serious change in the structure of the affected organs. With respect to the deposition which takes place in chronic inflammation, we are hardly able to speak very clearly. It is difficult to know the precise nature of the new matter depo- sited, and animal chemistry has not yet afforded us any very clear information upon it. If we take the example of the testi- cles, which are often the seat of this disease; on cutting into them, we shall find a considerable quantity of new matter, quite different from the natural structure of the parts, dissemi- nated through them. If a testicle thus diseased be injected, the new matter is found to admit only partially the substance of the injection into it. Examples of this I now exhibit to you. [The preparations were shown on the table.] In the case of the serous membranes, we frequently see a new production formed, under chronic inflammation, of a very marked kind ; and I now show you the specimen of a complete adventitious membrane, formed on the inner surface of the dura mater, in consequence of chronic inflammation in the head. Thus you see, that in acute inflammation there is very vio- lent disturbance, which is of a temporary kind; it quickly passes by, and the part recovers its natural condition. In chronic inflammation, the appearances are less alarming, and the disturbance seems to be at the moment less serious, but the