MECHANICAL INJURIES, WOUNDS, ETC. 197 body. Thus, if you have a large piece of the scalp torn up and connected to the remaining sound part, only by a very small portion of the skin; if you clean the surfaces, and lay it down again in its former situation, it will unite. If a finger be nearly cut off, and remain only attached to the hand by a small por- tion of skin, you may make it re-unite. I remember the case of a person who was on a coach when it was going under a gate-way, he lowered his head, but not quite enough, and the edge of the beam nearly scraped off the entire external ear. The meatus externus was separated, and the ear, in short, was merely held to the head by a very little portion of skin. It ap- peared, that it would be the shortest way in treating it, to nip it off with a pair of scissors, and, indeed, there would not have been much to cut through. However, as a kind of experiment, the parts were laid down in their original situation, kept there by a bandage, and they united very well. This process of union has been more decidedly shown by ope- rations which have been undertaken for the restoration of lost parts, and also by experiments on animals, for the purpose of attempting to imitate the process of grafting, as in the case of vegetables. It is a curious circumstance, that as long ago as the year 1155, a surgical practice existed at Bologna in Italy of restoring noses. There were one or tsvo families in which the practice of this operation seemed to be transmitted from one to the other, and those families were famous for its performance. However this operation has been best known to the experimen- tal world as that of Talliacotius, a professor at Bologna, who published a work in which he describes, at full length, the pro- cess be bad adopted for restoring lost lips, noses, and ears. The cures that were performed, at this time, by Talliacotius, were seen by his contemporaries in surgery; and there is this kind of further proof of what he did, that his contemporaries erected a statue in Bologna to his memory, in which he is represented as holding a nose in his hand. Perhaps, however, he is better known in this country through the notice that has been taken of his proceedings by the celebrated satirical poet, Butler, who says: “ So learned Talliacotius, from The brawny part of porter’s bum, Cut supplemental noses, which Would last as long as parent breech ; But when the date of Nock was out, Off dropped the sympathetic snout.” The truth is, Talliacotius did not cut noses from the breech, nor out of any part of another individual, so that the noses did uot sympathize with the dead as Butler represented. The plan which Talliacotius adopted was this : he pared the cicatrix of