137 TREATMENT OF ABSCESS. .perineum; and more particularly in matter forming where ■ there is a good deal of cellular membrane that is covered ex- iternally by muscles, as in the axilla, the groin, and the neck. I In the neck, there is a considerable quantity of cellular mem- brane by the sides of the traches, oesophagus, and about the .carotid artery and jugular vein. These are covered by fascia; and it not unfrequently happens that the formation of matter .takes place in the cellular membrane deep in the neck, and in consequence of the collection being covered by a firm texture, . it has no disposition to make its way externally;—in fact, the matter will descend along the vessels of the neck, towards the cavity of the chest. There is not only this danger, but the pa- rent suffers excessively during the time the matter is forming, i in consequence of the large nerves and the important parts that are situated in the neck. Matter frequently burrows under the oesophagus and trachea; and you find active febrile disturb- ance under those circumstances. I have seen a patient, from matter of this kind forming under the jugular, delirious for .several successive nights. Here you must proceed to make an opening as soon as you have obtained sufficient proof that : matter has formed. You will see that, under the circumstances I have men- tioned, you are obliged to operate for the discharge of matter ■ when it is seated so deeply that you cannot have the evidence of fluctuation, and, in fact, you must make an opening when :the quantity is so small that it would hardly produce fluctua- tion. What then are the evidences by which you are to satisfy .yourselves that matter has formed ? You must consider the .history of the case; you must consider the symptoms that have -attended the origin and progress of the complaint; you must consider the pain the patient has endured, and the general ap- pearances. There is usually, in the neighbourhood of the part, a swelling from serous infiltration, that is a symptom of im- portance too, in enabling you to determine what should be tdoue. When the symptoms are very urgent, and, from the association of circumstances I have just mentioned, you have come to the conclusion that matter probably has formed, though you cannot feel any sufficient pulsation or fluctuation, ;you are fully justified in making an opening, though sometimes • the matter does not afterwards actually flow out; there is no .great harm in making a puncture to see whether matter has i formed or not. You will sometimes, however, have to go ■ very deep, in order to get at the pus; sometimes you will have to penetrate the whole length of the blade; and, further, particularly when the operation is in the neck, you must be careful of the place in which you make this incision, in order