361 GONORRHOEA, syphilitic affection. This child is then put to another woman to nurse—the child then appearing well. The second woman has a primary sore on the breast; has an eruption occurring over various parts of her body; she then becomes preguant, and is delivered of an infant, who, in about four or five weeks, is covered with syphilitic eruption from top to toe. Now, in these and a variety of cases of a similar kind, the evidence of the nature of the disease, of the mode in which it is communicated to the children, and in which these children are capable of communicating it to other individuals, are so clear, that 1 am quite at a loss to discover what the grounds are which have led persons to doubt the syphilitic nature of such affections; and I can say most decidedly, that the admi- nistration of mercury, in the way that I have mentioned, is the most efficient mode of removing these appearances. LECTURE XXVIII. Gonorrhoea : Treatment.—Phimosis. — Para- phimosis.— Warts.—Hernia Humoralis. Gonorrhcra. —The disease, gentlemen, which bears the tech- nical name of gonorrhoea, and which common mortals call clap, is an inflammation of the mucous membrane of the urethra, attended with puriform discharge, which discharge unluckily possesses infectious properties; that is, it is capable of com- municating disease to the mucous membrane of the urethra, or of the vagina, of a healthy person, when brought into contact with it. Gonorrhoea, then, is an infectious disease, and it is usually conveyed from one individual to another by sexual intercourse, but not necessarily so. If you consider the etymological construction of the term gonorrhoea, it might lead you to form a somewhat erroneous opinion of the nature of the affection, more particularly with respect to the nature of the discharge. The word gonorrhoea, which is of Greek derivation, is equivalent to the word flux, Jtuxus seminus, in Latin; that is,discharge, or flow of the se- minal fluid. Now, it is not of that nature ; it is an increase, with an alteration in quality of the natural mucous secretion of the part; an increase and altered quality of the mucous secretion, consequent on the inflamed state of the mucous