277 GOUT AND RHEUMATISM. occurred. The warning' which these events gave was so im- pressive, that the parents could not fail to observe it, and they immediately determined on removing out of town again. Gout and Rheumatism.—Gout and rheumatism belQng to the medical, rather than to a surgical course of lectures ; how- ever, as the morbid states which are designated by these terms, are chiefly kuown to us by their production of local diseases, and as we often have cases in which the diseases are considered to be of a gouty or rheumatic nature, we cannot properly omit the subject altogether, even in a surgical course of lectures. We naturally, then, inquire what is the real nature of the dis- ease in those cases which are called gouty and rheumatic,— whether the inflammations of the joints, particularly of the liga- mentous and synovial structures of the joint to which the name gouty and rheumatic inflammation is given, are essentially dif- ferent from common disease of the joints; whether the treat- ment is the same in the two cases ; whether persons of gouty or rheumatic constitutions are liable, in consequence, to any particular kinds of inflammation in other parts of the body be- sides the joints. These are questions of importance which na- turally occur to us. The subject, perhaps, will be best elucidated if we take for consideration the case of some part which may be liable to different varieties of disease. Now, a joint of the body, the knee for example, may be the seat of eommon inflammation, or it may be the seat of that sort of affection which is denomi- nated gouty or rheumatic inflammation. In either case we And that it is swelled, that the motions of the part are impaired, that it is more or less painful, and that it is usually, in some de- gree, rather red or hot. These are circumstances which are com- mon to the affections in all cases. There may be a difference of degree in the symptoms, but such differences are not very constant, and, at all events, only constitute modifications of form. Indeed we may assert that if we were to look to local symptoms only, we should be unable to establish the diagnosis; we should not, by lookiug at the swelling, and the appearance of the part, be able to say whether it was common, or gouty, or rheumatic inflammation. Yet when we come to examine the cases, we find that there are differences in the causes, progress, and treatment, of the affection in the three instances. Common inflammation is produced by mechanical injury of the joint, and this in all individuals, and under all circum- stances ; whatever may be the health and other circumstances of the individual, this mechanical injury will produce an in- flammation. In rheumatism we see that the inflammatory action is immediately produced by cold or some other external