38 NATURE AND CLASSIFICATION OF DISEASES. diseases of the part—an arrangement grounded on anatomy. In considering disease in this way, we should find that u great deal of time would be saved, because when we have explained, generally, the nature of affections that are incidental to each tissue, we should only have, in particular cases, to point out the local circumstances which belong to affections in those parts. Suppose we take the cellular system, for example; in- flammation of the cellular system is called phlegmon; that in- flammation proceeding to suppuration, constitutes abscess. When the phenomena of phlegmonous inflammation and sup- puration have been once described generally, we need not repeat their description in going over all the various parts of the body ; we should only have to notice in particular instances any local peculiarity. The same with respect to serous mem- brane, mucous membrane, and all the other tissues. But it ■will be found convenient in describing disease, in some parts, to depart a little from this system, because it will contribute considerably to understanding clearly the various affections of a complicated organ to bring them under view at the same time. Thus, for example, it will be well to consider the dis- eases of the eye together, the diseases of the urinary organs, and so forth. This arrangement, then, I mean to adopt; considering, for the most part, diseases as they occur in the various elementary structures, but, in some instances, taking up the diseases as they are seated in particular organs. Although diseases are spoken of under single names, and are therefore regarded as single objects, you will find that each particular disease embraces a great variety of circumstances; and in order to understand it thoroughly, you must view it in different lights. In the first place, you survey those circum- stances which denote the existence of disease, and which may be called, generally, its external signs. You would direct your attention, in the first place, to the circumstances under which the disease has arisen, and you would investigate the occur- rences that have taken place in the particular instance, pre- viously to the time at which you saw the patient; that is, you would inquire into the history of the complaint. You would next proceed to notice those changes in the state of the affected organ, which produce any alteration recognisable by the senses ; those you can generally ascertain completely in external parts ; and, in some instances, in internal organs, changes are pro- duced, recognisable externally. You observe the changes in the functions of the part. You also observe the changes which may be produced either in other organs or functions second- arily. These various circumstances are called the symptoms of disease. The word symptom is of Greek extraction, and it