TREATMENT OF ABSCESS. 131 <Ming that is communicated by the presence of matter by ac- lially examining parts where suppuration has taken place. 'When matter has formed at some depth from the surface, of rnirse it becomes difficult to ascertain the fact. When you are Mamining a part, in which the point is very doubtful, it is not, j rhaps, so well to place the fingers of the two hands upon it, icd to press alternately with them, because you often, in this say, produce a kind of impulse from cellular infiltration; but •you place the fingers of one hand upon the part, let them •main at rest, and make pressure with those of the other, and you feel a fluctuation against the fingers at rest, you . ay pretty safely conclude that the formation of matter has occurred. When suppuration has taken place, the cavity of the abscess tends itself in all directions. It becomes larger and larger, id in this extension we observe, of course, that it enlarges ost readily in those directions in which the resistance is least, enerally speaking, therefore, the cavity of the abscess tends enlarge towards the external surface of the body, because, that direction, there is the least resistance to its develop- ed; or it tends to increase towards the surface of any of the ucous cavities or canals of the body. This progress of an isccss, however, towards the external surface of the body, or wards any of the natural mucous outlets, does not depend mply on t,he circumstance of there being less resistance in :ose directions, for abscesses will take either of those courses, •en although there should be much less resistance to their •ogress in other directions. Supposing abscess, in fact, takes ace in the parities of the abdomen or chest, and that the seat ' the abscess is nearly on the external surface of the serous embrane of either cavity, the matter will, in the majority of stances, pass through the muscular parities of the chest or >domen, externally, although it may be covered only by e thin serous membrane in the other direction. And so, merally, however deeply an abscess may be formed, and jvered externally by parts thick and unyielding, the obvious ndency of the process is to a removal of the parts that are tuated between the collection and the skin, and consequently > bring the matter to a discharge externally, either through the atural external surface, or into some of the mucous outlets of ic body. In the progress of the abscess towards the external irfacc, there is a gradual removal of the parts which intervene etween the collection and the skin. Here, therefore, a new rocess takes place. So far as we have hitherto seen, we have jppurative inflammation producing the deposition of pus in re cavity of the abscess, and adhesive inflammation consoli- K2