VENEREAL DISEASE; 312 atmosphere. In the state of system produced by the action of mercury, some persons appear to be particularly disposed to rheumatic affections. Where there is peculiar rheumatic dis- position, we frequently find persons complaining of pains of the joints,of the limbs, and the bones; and we do occasionally see actual swellings of the joints, which we have every reason to ascribe to the effect of the mercury. It would seem, therefore, that in those who have a disposition to rheumatism, mercury would call the affection into action ; and hence the necessity of weighing all the effects of the remedy, in order to prevent prejudicial actions of this kind. To this catalogue of evils, produced by the employment of mercury, some persons are inclined to add very considerably. In fact, among the prejudicial effects of the remedy, are enu- merated, by those who are unfavourable to its use, eruptions, iritis, affections of the nose, affections of the bones, and affec- tions of the joints, that is, a considerable portion of those symptoms which we know as secondary symptoms of syphilis. It has been contended by those, who in modern times have been the great advocates for the treatment of syphilis without mer- cury, that a great portion of those symptoms ordinarily de- scribed as secondary, are really owing to the action of the re- medies employed to counteract the syphilis. Now, in the first place, we may observe, that all these symptoms may be pro- duced without the employment of mercury. We know, per- fectly well, that each of them is seen in individuals who have taken no mercury at all. We have, therefore, clear evidence that all these effects may be produced by the disease. We have not the same evidence that they may be produced, on the contrary, by the employment of mercury. Mercury is given in many cases, besides those of syphilis: it is given to a very consi- derable extent in other cases; but in no instance, whereit is given in other diseases, do we find it produce eruptious, like syphilitic eruptions; in no such instance do we find it produce iritis, swelling of the nose, or of the bones, or of the periosteum. The effects, then, in question, can be produced by pox without mercury, but we have not the same evidence that they can be produced by mercury without pox. Now, it is true, that mer- cury and pox, acting together, may produce a something that neither would produce singly. I readily admit that the inju- dicious use of mercury, and the repeated employment of it in cases in which it ought not to be employed, may act prejudi- cially on the system, and that a perseverance in the use of it, where it exerts some of its noxious influences, may aggravate the symptoms of syphilis—may tend to make them return more easily—and may make them more difficult to cure. Thus, I