INFLAMMATION. 45 fore begin, because a general description of inflammation at first, will save a great deal of time, and we shall be able to refer with advantage to that description, in considering the affections of the various organs and textures in detail. Inflammation has generally been spoken of and described in the abstract; but there are such numerous varieties of the process dependant on the differences in the structure of the affected organ, and on the nature and cause of the disease, that any general description cannot be applicable. In order, there- fore, to give you a general notion of the kind of disturbance which is produced by inflammation, I shall select a particular instance, point out the phenomena which appear there, and exhibit that as a type of this kind of affection. I We shall take, then, the case of inflammation of the hand, produced by a ’gjund, puncture, laceration, or any other injury of the finger or palm. The individual who has received this injury, probably, continues his ordinary occupations. He finds the parts becoming rather painful, but for the moment disregards this, and goes on to use the hand. The inconvenience in- creases, the part begins to swell, and soon he finds himself unable to use it without great pain, which induces him to seek medical assistance. When you see a case under such circumstances, you will find that the inflammatory attack is already pretty fully developed, and you will observe it charac- terised by four circumstances; that is, the part is preter- naturally red, swelled, hot, and painful. The swelling affects the whole of the hand, but it does not present the same cha- racters throughout. In the immediate situation of the wound, supposing that to be in one fiDger, or in the palm of the hand, you will find the swelling is tense and firm. If the affection has extended from the hand to the fore-arm, the tumefaction will be of a firm character, particularly about the wrist; hut if you examine the back of the hand and fore-arm generally, you probably find that the swelling is soft, and what we term mdematous; you observe also that the swelling is moie ex- tended than the redness. The redness is of a bright scarlet, or light crimson tint. It is that kind of colour which we may suppose to be produced by the presence of an increased quan- tity of arterial blood in the part. It does not exhibit any thing like what would be produced by an incresse of venous blood. The redness is most intense in the immediate neigh- bourhood of the injury, and from that it is gradually shaded off towards the sound parts. The increased heat is sensibly apparent to the touch. If we apply the hand, we can at once perceive that the inflamed spot is warmer than the neighbouring parts. The patient, too, feels an intense burning in the seat