INFLAMMATION, 56 cence and resolution, but that it goes on, and is often only a little diminished in violence, after these effects have taken place. You are not to understand that each inflammation produces one only of these effects ; on the contrary, you have often two or more of them combined together. When suppuration occurs from inflammation of the hand, a portion of the integuments, covering the matter, may mortify; and there you have both suppuration and mortification. You may have suppuration and mortification in one part, while the rest of the inflamma- tion slowly subsides; that is, terminates by resolution. With the termination of inflammation in resolution, you may have considerable swelling from deposition of lymph in the in- flamed textures. You are further to understand, that inflam- mation does not necessarily come to an end, after producing these effects. The progress of inflammation, and its effects, would be much more simple, and less injurious, if it were so. But after suppuration has taken place in one part of the hand ; for instance, unless the case be judiciously treated, and the patient take care of himself—fresh inflammation and suppura- tion will occur in the neighbouring parts. Thus you will find that inflammation originating in the finger gradually extends into the palm of the hand, and from thence up the fore-arm, producing, in these various parts, changes of structure, by which the motions of the limb may be rendered very imper- fect, or entirely lost. The view of inflammation which I have exhibited to you from the appearance it assumes in an external part like the hand, has been generalised, so as to be made a kind of repre- sentation of what occurs in inflammation wherever it may be seated. The nature and effects of the diseased action may be the same, as far as we know, in the internal parts of the body; but our notions can only be formed with any degree of accu- racy, when the disease is seated on the exterior. Hence inflammation, considered abstractly, has been said to consist in the four circumstances I have detailed ; viz. redness, swelling, heat, and pain. I think, however, that in order to make the enumeration complete, two other circumstances should be added. We should take into our view that very im- portant circumstance, interstitial deposition ; and we should also include the impaired or suspended function of the affected organ. We should not include, in our general notion of inflamma- tion, the occurrence of those sympathetic effects which I men- tioned in my last lecture, because they do not invariably at- tend it. The sympathetic disturbance of the sanguiferous.