VENEREAL DISEASE. 304 salivation ; and if it had, then you must give it still more cautiously. Frequently, when we wish to affect the system rapidly, in order to put a stop to complaints that are spreading destructively, we employ the remedy, both by means of friction, and internally ; that is, we administer the blue pill, and rub in the ointment, until we produce a certain effect; and then, perhaps, the internal administration, or the external application alone, will keep up the action to the requisite extern. When mercury is given in moderate doses, it generally purges ; and small doses of mercury, repeated from time to time, are given in consequence, to alter the state of the secretions in the ah- mentary canal; but it is not the purgative effect, nor the influence which it is thus capable of exerting on the secretions of the alimentary canal, that checks the progress of venereal disease. Mercury must be given in larger quantities for this. It must be repeated ; its effects must often be continued for a considerable length of time, in order to bring about that change of the system, by which the progress of venereal disease is arrested. In truth, the action of the remedy as a purgative interferes with its influence on the system, and prevents the check which it is intended to give to venereal disease. Mercury produces very considerable and very powerful effects on the animal economy. It generally increases the quickness of the pulse; and sometimes it produces a slight degree of what we may call feverishness. It augments some of the secretions, particularly that of the salivary glands ; frequently those of the kidneys, and of the skin. Aud it will not only augment the secretion of the skin, but that secretion may become actually impregnated with the metal; so that articles of gold or silver that are worn near the person, undergo a partial alteration of the surface in consequence of it. A gold watch, for instance, may be turned quite white. The mercury produces a peculiar effect on the mouth. In the first place, it causes an unpleasant metallic, or coppery, taste, of which per- sons are particularly sensible in the morning ; at the same time it produces a foetor of the breath, so that persons who are taking mercury, and do not wish the fact should be known, must be careful not to approach too near those from whom they wish to conceal it. It then produces swelling, sponginess,inflam- mation, and a tender state of the gums, with looseness, and a very painful condition of the teeth, so that a person is unable to bite not only any hard substance, but even any thing that approaches at all to a state of solidity. The mucous covering of the mouth generally undergoes the same change as the gums. The mouth swells, aDd becomes very painful, and if the action of the remedy be continued, it causes ulceration of