354 VENEREAL DISEASE ; seen affections of the nose arising in persons who have em- ployed mercury for the venereal disease, to no very great ex- tent; so that I do not participate in those opinions which ascribe this effect to mercury, although one may usually look to this, as one of those forms of disease which may be rendered more severe by the injudicious use of the remedy. I think, in general, the use of mercury does not do good where the nose is the seat of disease, and that sarsaparilla and narcotics are the means that should be resorted to, together with a lotion of the corrosive sublimate in distilled water or lime-water—that treat- ment is the safest mode of proceeding. Syphilitic fVarts.— With respect to warts, as connected with syphilitic disease, we do not find it necessary to resort to the employment of mercury in the treatment of them; they are to be regarded in this, as they are in other cases, the result of simple inflammation of the parts; and, therefore, their treatment falls under the general rule of treatment applicable to warts under other circumstances. Syphilis in Infants.—There is one other form of the venereal disease still remaining, that I have to speak of to you, and that is syphilitic disease as it occurs in infants. This is a form of the disease not arising in the way that the disease does in the adult, through the medium of sexual intercourse. Syphilis is communicated to infants through the medium of the circula- ting fluids of the mother; the syphilitic poison is conveyed to the child in utero by the blood of the mother, and the child is sometimes born with the effects of the poison visible on it at its birth, but more commonly the result of the affection becomes apparent in a few weeks afterbirth—four, five, or six weeks, or even a longer period. The affection as we see it in infants is very strongly marked ; it is so peculiar that, in my opinion, it cannot be confounded with any other. The sores and the nature of the disease appear tome equally clear and unequivo- cal ; and hence I must acknowledge that it seems to me very strange that Mr. Hunter, who appears to have seen a very great number of well marked instances of it, should have put it down in the chapter of his book in which he speaks of dis- eases resembling syphilis, but which are not syphilitic. In the first place, this affection of children only arises where they are born of mothers that have actually laboured under syphilis; and the disease itself, in the infant, presents the strongest analogy to syphilitic disease as we see it in the adult. The dis- ease which ttius appears may be communicated from the child to a healthy woman who suckles it; and the disease thus pro- duced in the woman is capable of affecting other individuals. And lastly—what 1 should have supposed would have been