INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. G the circumstances under which they arise; he watches their progress and termination ; he explores the organic changes which they produce, and learns to connect these changes with their appropriate external signs or symptoms; deriving from these comparisons the means of distinguishing the exact seat of disease, and predicting its course and event. These matters form the subjects of morbid anatomy and pathology. Morbid anatomy is opposed to anatomy ; pathology is opposed to phy- siology. Anatomy regards the healthy structure; morbid anatomy the diseased one. Pathology regards the diseased functions; physiology those that are healthy. The student is now prepared to apply the external influences, such as diet, climate, exercise, the outward or inward remedies, or the sur- gical operations which may be necessary for the removal of disease, aud the restoration of health. When disease is stu- died in this manner, in reference to the whole body, it consti- tutes the science of general pathology; as a similar investiga- tion, directed to any single organ, is the pathology of that part. The real question respecting the distinction of physic and sur- gery is this:—after surveying the whole field of disease in the way just mentioned, can you find out any portions insulated from the rest ? any division not connected with other parts, and which can be understood without reference to them ? Can you separate this entire subject of disease into two independent halves, requiring different modes of study and practice ? Cer- tainly not. The entire structure and functions are universally and intimately connected. No part is independent. The causes that constitute disease are often to be found, not in the part itself, but in a remote portion of the frame; the means of cure are seldom to be applied actually to the part diseased : for instance, if a person has a gouty inflammation of the toe, no cause of disease can be ascribed to the part itself; but if you examine the state of the individual, you will find a full and strong pulse, and other marks indicating a fulness of habit, or plethora, as it is called ; the tongue will indicate a disorder in the digestive organs, and your treatment must consist in adopting the means necessary to remove the fulness of habit, and to correct the digestive organs, and the patient goes od well without any application to the toe. Another person may have a paralytic affection of his finger, and you can discern no cause for it in the part itself; you will find every thing in the paralysed member perfect as to structure; but on examination, you find disease existiug in the head ; you take the means of allaying that disease, and then the paralysed parts recover the power of motion. In many cases, disease originating in one part aff ects a great many other organs of the body ; and very