INFLAMMATION. 50 Though then these circumstances prove that an increased quantity of blood is sent to the inflamed part, yet it does not follow from this that a greater quantity is circulating through it. That a greater quantity must be sent to it, is clear beyond all doubt, and many have supposed, that the additional quan- tity is stagnant, or confined, in the part. But there are other circumstances which, to my mind prove very distinctly, that not only a greater quantity of blood is sent to the part, but that a greater quantity passes through it. In the first place, if you make an incision into an inflamed part, you find more blood flows from it than flows from a similar incision made into a sound part. Take the case of phlegmonous erysi- pelas, which occupies the skin and cellular membrane. If you make an incision there, and do not go deeper than the fascia, you will find there is an immense number of vessels cut, and that twenty or thirty ounces of blood will escape from it very rapidly. If you perform an operation on an inflamed part, which, by the way, you ought not to do, or in the immediate neighbourhood of such a part, you will find a much greater number of vessels bleeding, and the bleeding to be much more profuse, than if you were cutting into a sound part. The en- larged state of the veins is a sufficient proof to me, that there is a greater quantity of circulating fluid. If there was a larger quantity of blood sent to a part, and that blood was stagnant, then the veins would not be distended. In cases of this kind I have had this experiment performed. It being necessary to bleed a patient, whose hand and fore-arm were inflamed, I had an opening made into the veins at the bend of each arm, open- ings as nearly as possible of the same sine, and in the same space of time, about three times the quantity of blood has come from the vessel of the inflamed that escaped from that of the sound arm. This I have tried in several instances, and always with the same result, so that I can have no dif- ficulty in stating to you decidedly* that there is both a larger quantity of blood sent into and going from an inflamed than a healthy part, and that all the notions of stagnation, spasm that prevents the passing of the blood, and atony, are totally unfounded. This general view then leads us to see, that the phenomena of inflammation, that is, the changes which occur in the part itself, arise from an increased exertion of the circulating sys- tem in the affected part. The redness and preternatural heat are obviously accounted for by this view. The redness, by the increased quantity of blood,and the increased heat on the same principle. The heat of the body certainly depends principally on the changes produced in the blood in passing through the