BURNS. 234 patient is in the very dangerous condition I have mentioned, your main object is to attend to the state of the system. The treatment recommended by Mr. Kentish, in such cases, is the most applicable. He founds his treatment on the analogy be- tween what should be done on the application of beat to the body, and the course of proceeding to be adopted, where the body has suffered from excessive effects of cold- Now I have already had occasion to mention to you, that where a part suf- fers from cold, it is quite wrong suddenly to apply a great de- gree of heat. Mr. Kentish says, in the same way, where the temperature of the part has been very highly raised, that you should gradually lessen it to bring it down to the temperature of the sound state. Whether this is exactly so or not, it per- haps is not necessary to inquire. His treatment is very suc- cessful, however, and it is that of washing the part over with the turpentine liniment, and then covering it with cloths dipped into the liniment, the liniment being made of the oil of turpen- tine, and yellow basilicon. This is a stimulating application. In conjunction with this, the employment of opium, in mode- rate doses, is to be had recourse to, in order to relieve the ex- ternal pain, and the administration of either a little wine and water, or brandy and water, where there is that faintness which frequently occurs. This is the mode of treatment which has been proposed in cases of extensive burn, by Mr. Kentish, who had great opportunities of seeing them in their worst forms, having practised in the neighbourhood of coal mines, where extensive injuries of this sort are of very frequent occurrence. In the subsequent treatment, the application of the turpen- tine liniment is continued until ulceration and suppuration commence, and then other milder applications are proper. You treat the wounds on the principles already detailed. You may apply a soft poultice, and when granulations commence, you may treat them according to the plan applicable to ulcers. Of course you are not to continue the internal stimuli longer than the existence of the circumstances which require them. You would not think of giving a patient under disease of this kind, wine, opium, or brandy, for any length of time. As soon as the state that calls for these is past, you would discontinue their employment. Now, the general treatment of burns will differ very consi- derably, for the causes of these accidents are various. Some- times the injury produced by the application of heat, creates considerable excitement, instead of the state of depression I have just mentioned. It is necessary, then, to employ pretty active" antiphlogistic means ; to take blood, &c. Frequently, a state of excitement comes on in scalds, about the time when