VEKEREAL DISEASE; 342 throat may be the seat of a very formidable phagedenic ulcera- tion; that is, there may be a destruction of the substance of the mucous membrane ; it may have a sloughy, or, at least, a phagedenic character, with a bright-red appearance of the surrounding portion of the membrane, and occupying, par- ticularly, the upper and posterior part of the pharynx, reaching above the velum palati,and extending further downwards than you see by inspection externally. Frequently ulceration is not confined to the throat, but it may take place also in various parts of the tongue, or in the mucous membrane of the cheeks, or of the lips. Sometimes there is a state of ulceration of the mucous membrane of those parts. Sometimes the mucous membrane is thickened, raised into a kind of irregular swelling. The limbs, the joints, and bones, are also the seat of various affections connected with syphilis. In the outset of constitutional symptoms, it is not uncom- mon for patients to complain of severe pain of the limbs generally, and of the joints, without our being able to observe any particular swelling, or obvious deviation from the natural state of them. In the more advanced stage of syphilitic affec- tions, however, we find severe pains in the central portions of the limb—not in the joints, but in the intermediate parts ; and we then usually find, that swelling takes place either in the bones, or in the periosteum covering the bones of the limb. Sometimes the swelling is of that hard incompressible nature, that we can have no doubt of the bone being in a state of in- flammation ; sometimes it is, although firm, of a more yielding kind, and such as is calculated to lead us to suppose the peri- osteum is the seat of the affection. There may be exostosis or periostosis forms of disease of the bones and their covering. In these cases it frequently happens, that patients complain little during the day, but the severe pain comes on during the night, which prevents them from getting rest, and goes oft again in the morning. In some cases of this kind, there is a simple thickening of the periosteum, or swelling of the bones. In others there is a more active affection ; the disease proceeding to suppuration, matter forms under the periosteum, makes its way out, and a portion of the bone perishes—syphilitic caries takes place, that is, the substance of the bone ulcerates, and perishes to a certain extent. In the more protracted cases of syphilis, it is not uncommon to have considerable swellings, with much pain in the joint- In the early part of constitutional syphilis, you have simple pain in the joints, but where it has been of long continuance, where the patient has been exposed to repeated attacks, inflammation of the synovial membrane ot the joint occurs, and swelling of the joint itself, in consequence