VENEREAL DISEASE; 340 is, inflammation of the skin, take place, effusion occurs, and the cuticle is elevated into inflamed pustules; these proceed, and form venereal ulcers—that is, the pustular venereal eruption. These are the principal forms of eruption that you observe, as secondary symptoms of syphilis : a scaly syphilitic eruption, which may be called syphilitic lepra, or syphilitic psoriasis, a tubercular eruption, a papular eruption, and a pustular eruption proceeding to ulceration. Now you do not find these eruptions always distinct; fre- quently they are so, but sometimes the different characters of the eruptions are united; that is, you will find an eruption partly tubercular and partly scaly, or you may see a mixture of the pustular with the scaly ; in short you do not find them in- variably existing in their separate and distinct forms. The pustular eruption spreads into ulcerations; the cuticle, which has been elevated by lymph or pus, gives way, and the fluid which is discharged encrusts upon the surface. The skin ulcerates under that encrustation ; a greater discharge of matter takes place, and the encrustation is increased. If the part be kept moist, you then see an ulcer ; but if you leave it exposed to the air, the matter concretes in the way I have mentioned, and the part is covered with encrustations more or less thick. The ulcerations thus formed are superficial sores, generally of a circular shape, and rapidly healing In other instances, they degenerate into very ioul and intractable ulcera- tions of a phagedenic character. Very generally they retain the circular form, and we find that they heal up in the centre, but not towards the edges; that there is a healing up in the centre, and a very foul or tawny margin by which the ulcera- tion extends. Frequently the sores are of a crescent shape; that is, they have a convex edge by which they extend, whilst they heal up at the concavity. Sometimes the phagedenic edge is simply of a tawny colour; at other times it is consider- ably elevated, and almost sloughy, with a very red, angry, and fiery state of the neighbouring skin. There is a considerable variety in the characters of those syphilitic ulcerations of the skin, all which originate, in the first instance, from a vesicle or ^ The skin is also liable to other affections dependent on vene- real disease: ulcerations take place of a secondary character, in the skin, about the arms; and there they very commonly have an elevated margin, with somewhat of ati indurated base, something like the indurated syphilitic sore. At other times, the ulcerations about the margin of the anus have the appear, ance of fissures or chaps; and the natural folds of the skin about that part seem to give rise to the particular form which