202 MECHANICAL INJURIES, WOUNDS, ETC. ther; and I used no other dressing in that case, except a rag dipped in cold water, and kept continually damp. I removed the sutures in twenty-four hours. There was not a particle of dischaige ever took place from the wound, the whole united by adhesion, and the gentleman was able to go about his usual avocations at the end of a week from the period of performing the operation. Perhaps heretofore sutures have been more freely employed than was necessary ; but I think, in modern times they have been rather too much neglected, and that the practice of using them has been too much disregarded. The objection may have arisen from the injudicious mode in which they have been employed, rather than from the principle of the practice. Large needles and thick ligatures have been used j and an idea existed, that it was necessary to pass those very deeply, so that the whole depth of the wound should be in- cluded ; and the sutures, when thus passed, were left in for a long time. You cannot wonder that, under such circumstances, they should very often excite considerable irritation, and that, in fact, obvious mischief should arise from their employment in this way. But if you use small needles and small ligatures, and if you cut the sutures out in about twelve or four-and- twenty hours, you avoid all these mischiefs. I should say, that under such circumstances, sutures are very often necessary, that they are generally very advantageous, and that they are not, under any circumstances, injurious, when they are em- ployed with these restrictions. You should use sutures for the union of recent wounds of the eye-brows or eye-lids, or of the face generally; because there it is important to have the sides of the wounds very accu- rately adjusted, in order to prevent or to lessen the deformity that may be occasioned by such wounds. I have seen consi- derable deformity arise from the neglect of those means that were necessary to bring the edges of such wounds very accu- rately together. I recollect an instance of a gentleman who had a penetrating wound of the upper eye-lid, it had gone through the textures of the lid completely, without injuring the globe ; and in consequence of there not having been pro- per attention paid, the edges of the wound had healed, so as to leave a sort of button-hole in the upper eye-lid. In another case, where the edges were not well brought together, a kind of fissure was left in the lower eye-lid. In the groin and scro- tum, you will find sutures by far the most efficient mode of bringing the parts together. I have mentioned interrupted sutures as being the form of sutures we most use; but there are cases in which the uninter- rupted suture may be advisable. 1 remember an instance