302 VENEREAL DISEASE. the body becomes exposed to the volatilized mercurial fumes, and in this way a very speedy effect on the system may be produced. For this purpose the hydrargyri oxydum cinnerum may be thrown upon the hot iron; or the sulphuret, or cinna- bar, may be employed. The cinnabar, however, is rather too powerful to be employed in this extensive way. I may observe to you, that this mode of using mercury will quickly produce the intended effect. The cinnabar fumigation is not an un- common mode of applying the mercury to ulcerations of the throat, and I have many times seen salivation produced by it. Of the forms of mercury which are administered internally, perhaps the safest, and altogether the best, is the pilula by- drargyri, or, as it is called from its colour, the blue pill; it consists of mercury triturated with confection of roses and powder of liquorice. This combination is given in doses, ordinarily, of four or five grains, sometimes, however, as large as ten grains, and these are given twice or three times in the course of the four-and-twenty hours. Another mode, and a very common one, of administering mercury internally, is in the form of calomel—the hydrargyri submuriatis of the London Pharmacopoeia; one or two, sometimes even three or four grains in this form of the remedy, are administered two, three, or four times in the four-and-twenty hours. Now as calomel very frequently acts as a purgative, it is sometimes necessary, when administered for the purpose of influencing the system, to combine opium with it, to prevent its action on the bowels. A third of a grain, or half a grain of opium, may be combined with each dose of the calomel for this purpose, and frequently it is necessary to combine opium in the same manner with the blue pill, for although that does not so commonly act on the bowels, yet it sometimes does. Hydrargyrus cum creta, formed by triturating mercury with chalk, is a mild preparation of mercury. It is considerably less active than either of the two preceding forms, and therefore more mild. It is employed when we wish to administer mercury to children, or to individuals in whom other forms of mercury affect the bowels, or produce other bad effects; it is given in doses of from five to ten grains, and may be repeated in the course of the four-and-twenty hours. This is a form of the remedy, however, which is not employed when we waut to act powerfully on the system, or to do so in a short time. The oxymuriate of mercury, or corrosive sublimate, is another form that is employed in certain cases, but it is very powerful, and, indeed, even in small doses, it is a poisonous preparation. It has, however, been frequently used, and is so still, in minute doses in cases of syphilis. On account of its very active properties, it must be used in minute doses,