228 TETANUS. quantities. Opium does not produce the same effect on a pa- tient labouring under tetanus as it does on a person in health or having any other disease. The state of the patient at that time, renders him very unsusceptible of its effects; so far, therefore, you can give it in large doses. Dr. Babbington gave 180 grains of opium in eleven hours. An ounce of the tinctura opii has been given, many times, in tetanus, in the course of four-and-twenty hours. If you look to cases of idiopathic tetanus, you will find many in which the free and abundant exhibition of opium has been considered to have cured the complaint; but we do not find the same result from opium in sympathetic tetanus. Here, however, it is often employed for the purpose of lessening the severity of the spasm, and often with considerable benefit, so far as that goes. It is not to be considered, if employed alone, as a very powerful or certain means of cure; though in combination with other means it may be very useful. Bloodletting is to be resorted to in tetanus, particularly in the early stage. Patients have been bled largely, and, in cer- tain cases, the appearance of the blood drawn has seemed to justify the operation. The blood is buffed and cupped; and this, in conjunction with the state of the pulse, has certainly shown that bloodletting might be considered as an auxiliary remedy, although, if employed alone, it is not capable of ac- complishing the purpose in view. Mercury has been employed very largely, so as to produce salivation. Large quantities of mercury have been rubbed on the body, so as to produce saliva- tion in a short time. This, however, has failed to accomplish the desired effect. Indeed, there are not a few cases in which tetanus has come on in patients who were actually under sali- vation at the time. The powerful relaxing effect, or, rather, the depressing effect, which tobacco has over the nervous and muscular system, has led to the employment of it in glysters. Musk, camphor, and ether, in large doses—in fact, all kinds of remedies that have been supposed to have any power over the nerves and muscles have been used. Bark, wine, tonics, and stimuli, have been given very freely. Sometimes persons have administered wine in very large quantities; but while this had no effect towards a cure, it has appeared as though the free use of wine did not materially tend to accelerate the progress of the disease. If we were merely then to look over the recorded cases of tetanus, so as to observe the means that have been employed, and the effects that have been produced, we should feel totally at a loss for any principle to guide us in its treatment. It ap- pears to me, that the most successful treatment of tetanus has