TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION; 92 mode of taking blood. When blood is taken by cupping, and by a person who performs the operation very skilfully, it differs but little from general bleeding. A skilful operator will take perhaps twenty ounces of blood from the back of the neck, as quickly as you will draw it from the arm; therefore we can- not suppose there can be any material alteration produced in the economy between the two. In certain instances of cupping, we cannot say the blood is taken simply from the capillary ves- sels. I have seen, in cupping performed on the temple, for instance, arteries divided and throwing jets of blood, three or four of them, against the sides of the cupping glass, therefore blood is then taken very quickly ; and when it is taken in that way, I do not see any material difference between it and the abstraction of blood from a vein or an artery, though in one case it is called local, and in the other, general bleeding. In this country, phlebotomy or venesection is generally performed in the arm; the blood is taken from one of the veins at the bend of the elbow, that being found to be the most con- venient part. But on the Continent, venesection is frequently practised on some part of the lower extremity, particularly in veins of the leg or foot; and the physicians and surgeons of France seem to consider, that a peculiar advantage arises from taking blood in this manner under certain circumstances. They consider, for example, this practice more advantageous for affections of the head. They consider, that by performing vene- section there, a derivation from the head takes place. This is a kind of scientific word, which I believe has not a very definite meaning; and, in point of fact, we have no direct evidence to shew, that in cases of inflammation, it is of material conse- quence whether we take blood from the veins of one part of the body or of another. Hence we have come in this country generally, on account of its convenience, to practice blood-let- ting from the arm. Since, then, there are these two modes of taking blood, the general and the local, a question will naturally arise—What are the cases in which the one or the other is preferable; what quantity of blood is to be taken; bow often should the venesection be repeated ; and what is the comparative efficacy in respect to reducing inflammation, between the abstraction of blood from the arm, and the other means by which that pur- pose is to be accomplished? When you hear of local bleeding, you perhaps are rather inclined to suppose, that that should be the proper mode of attempting to reduce the inflammation of any given part. You might suppose, that the best way of reducing increased action in any organ, would be to take blood from the organ itself; to