SCROFULA. 271 have cleared the alimentary canal, and got a clean state of the tongue, and the patient be pallid and feeble; if the skin is cold, and there is a defective circulation in reference to the surface, 'you may administer tonic medicines—perhaps steel and mine- ral acids. The best of these tonics is infusion of Cascarilla ■with dilute nitric acid; or sulphuric acid may be given, in the infusion of roses. Ammoniated tincture of iron, bark, columba, and gentian, are tonics that are frequently given under such circumstances. Great confidence has been hereto- fore reposed in bark, in the treatment of scrofulous subjects; but I believe it possesses nothing particular in its powers : it is capable of doing nothing that may not be affected by other i medicines. With these tonics, mild aperients may be asso- ■ ciated. Rhubarb may be advantageously joined with carbonate of iron. If there be acidity, it may be advantageous to give alkalies, in conjunction with bitter tonics. It would seem that the principles of modern practice, even in ordinary cases, are not clearly established. Alkalies have enjoyed great reputation in the treatment of scrofula : the hydriodate of potash, and the hydrochlorate of lime, have been used ; subsequently, carbonate of ammonia ;—all these have been regarded as specifics, and a combination of them with tonics has been employed. Other persons have wisely considered that a medium between the two extremes of the exhibition of acids and alkalies in scro- fula, is the most desirable mode of proceeding. Having men- tioned these opposite opinions generally, I may refer to my own experience; and probably the truth is, that neither the acids nor the alkalies are of great importance in such cases : the successful treatment may not depend upon the administra- tion of either of these remedies. An opinion has often prevailed that mercury ought not to be given to patients affected with scrofula; that a great danger exists of aggravating the affection—of rendering it more obsti- nate. But l think we certainly cannot dispense with mercury, regarding it a3 a purgative. We often find it most beneficial for clearing out the alimentary canal, and as a mild and alter- ative medicine to be given afterwards. I may go further, and state that in some forms of scrofulous disease, where it is ac- tive, and proceeding to a change of structure of the part which it affects, (and I would allude particularly to strumous inflam- mation affecting the cornea of the eye,—where deposition takes place into the cornea,) it is often of great advantage to carry the use of mercury so far as to affect the system; that by these means we have the power of controlling the inflammation, and bringing- it to an end, of bringing it to a termination without destruction of the part. And we do this without any danger,