ON GRANULATION. 171 The new matter by which the chasm is to be llfied up, con- sists at first of a soft, red substance, which on its surface is elevated into small prominences of a roundish or pointed figure, dififering in size. This soft substance, on the surfaces I have mentioned to you, is kept moist by the secretion of pus. Now these soft prominences are called granulations ; and their forma- tion,—in a word, the process altogether, is termed the process of granulation. Although the secretion of pus is a common occurrence in that process of restoration, by which the chasms produced by ulceration are to be supplied, I believe we cannot say that it is an universal one. It takes place in the great majority of instances, but I believe that, in the case of ulcera ■ tion of the articular cartilages of bones, no secretion of pus is to be observed. And certainly in the case of ulcers of the cornea, we cannot observe anything like a secretion of pus. The secretion of pus, then, is not what can be admitted into the definition of ulceration. The definition of ulceration has, probably, turned on the breach of the surface, or of the organ— the cavity or solution that is produced by ulcerative absorption. We may, to be sure, add to the definition, that it is attended with deposition of pus in the majority of cases. Now the solution of the description, which I have just given of the process of ulceration, is this, that coagulable lymph is effused on the surface of the chasm, and that this rapidly be- comes organized ; that blood-vessels, absorbents, and nerves, are formed in it, constituting the restorative process by which the surface of the body is to be repaired, when it has been broken by ulceration. Here you see that the process is very similar to what goes on in cases of inflammation. I have already said, that, under inflammatory action, coagulable lymph is effused into a part; that the lymph becomes a receptacle into which blood-vessels, absorbents, and nerves, are propagated or formed; and thus the parts are thickened, or permanently increased. In the reparative or granulatory process, you have essentially the same, that is, effusion of lymph on the surface of the sore, and then the formation of blood-vessels, absorbents, and nerves, to make it a new and organized part of the body, and calculated to perform particular functions. Now as the process in this view of it is so much similar to what takes place in inflammation, in fact scarcely to be dis- tinguished from what Mr. Hunter calls adhesive inflammation, you will not be surprised at observing the actual existence of inflammation. The surrounding parts are redder than natural, there is a sensible increased heat in the part; and Dr. John Thomson says, he has sometimes attempted to measure the com- parative temperatures of the parts by the thermometer, when this