PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF FEVER. 119 ready had occasion to describe to you, as attending serious local i inflammation, and it is the synocha of Cullen. It is not necessary for me to say more to you on this subject, : for the observations I have already made to you respecting the ; treatment of inflammation, include the treatment of this affec- : tion. We regard it only as a sympathetic effect of serious local inflammation, and the means we adopt, in order to remove local : inflammation, are equally efficacious in the sympathetic dis- i turbances consequent on that local cause. In other instances, the digestive organs are the parts princi- ! pally affected •, and such cases constitute what some writers j have called gastric, or bilious fever. I imagine that to this i head we may refer what has sometimes been called mucous fever. Tenderness or pain about the epigastric region, great t thirst, nausea or sickness, complete loss of appetite, or a coated and foul state of the tongue, and a variety of symptoms that are referable to disorder of the alimentary canal, are the cir- cumstances principally characterising that form of sympathetic fever which may be called gastric or bilious. Now Broussais refers the cause of all fevers to the state of the alimentary canal; thus common continued fever, typhus fever, the yellow fever, the plague, and, in fact, all varieties of fever, with him are caused by gastritis, or enteritis, orgastro-enteritis. He regards all these as disturbances immediately originating in inflammatory disorder of these parts. There can be no doubt that the alimentary canal is the original seat of the dis- turbance in a great many cases of fever; and, in fact, in cases that run through their progress and terminate fatally, diseased appearances, of a very marked kind, are commonly found in the alimentary canal. A considerable proportion of the whole of the patients who are examined after death exhibit appear- ances of this kind. During the past year, at the Fever Hospi- tal, I find, by two or three notes with which my friend Dr. Tweedie has favoured me, that of sixty fatal cases, twenty-four had diseases of the mucous membrane of the intestines, and that fifteen of those showed ulceration of some part of the ali- mentary canal. These are two specimens (exhibiting theparts) of disease of the mucous membrane of the small intestines which Dr. Tweedie has sent to me. In one of them you will see numerous ulcerations of the mucous coat, while, in the other, one ulcer has penetrated through the peritoneal coat. He observes that, in this case, adhesions to the neighbouring parts had prevented the escape of the contents into the belly, but, usually, where an ulcer penetrates through the peritoneal coat, it is followed by death within four-and-twenty hours, for