231 EFFECTS OF HEAT, SCALDS. the whole of the particulars of this case; it is enough for me to say, that the tetanic affection proceeded until all the parts of the muscular system were involved, and they were as severely involved, as in any case I ever saw. This gentleman frequently remained with all the muscles of the trunk and limbs in the most violent state of rigidity ; be then had convulsions of the most serious kind, so that, although he was a man of strong mind and great resolution, he could not at times help crying out most loudly. It was necessary to exhibit in this case opium and hyoscyamus, in order to control those attacks of spasm. I think the benefit of the antiphlogistic plan, and the free exhibition of antispasmodic remedies in the early stage, was so manifest in this respect, that a moderate dose, first of hyoscyamus, and then of opium, was sufficient to afford relief, although, in other cases, where opium alone has been employed, it has not been found to be sufficient. In the first place, a drachm of the hyoscyamus would very much suspend the spas- modic actton for three or four hours, and then another would have the same effect. We soon, hewever, found it necessary to have recourse to opium, but we did not go beyond a drachm of it in a dose, and, by giving this every six or seven hours, the violent action and great severity of the spasms were obviated ; aud by the continuance of the two remedies, the regular exhi- bition of the croton oil and the opium, the complaint gradually subsided, and this gentleman completely recovered. I may mention to you, that his state of tetanus was so considerable, that two or three medical gentlemen who were consulted (his friends wishing to have the judgment of the highest authorities on this occasion), considered the case completely hopeless. This, therefore, is the plan I myself should have recourse to, in in the treatment of cases of this description. Chemical Injuries. Effects of Heat—The application of heat to the human body will produce, according to its degree, slight or considerable inflammation, together with vesication and other consequences, or complete disorganization of the part; partial death, or complete disorganization. Scalds.—The injury that is produced by the application of hot water to the body, is denominated a scald ; the effect that can be produced here is limited, because the temperature of boiling water does not exceed 212 degrees. The transient application of hot water to the body will produce vesication, inflammation of the surface of the skin, effusion of serum under the inflamed surface, and the elevation of the cuticle. If hot water be applied for a longer time, it will produce considerable inflammation of the skin,—inflammation so considerable, that part of it may mortify or perish, and a superficial slough be