263 DINNERS FOR EACH MONTH. Eefehences to the a Centre epergnewith six lights, flowers, white dwarf chrysanthemums, sur- rounded by scarlet geraniums and ferns. hb Oranges, apples, grapes, filberts, melon, and pineapple. pnECEDiNG Diagram. cc Lady-apples, Tangerine oranges. dd Assiettes montdes, irith bonbons. ee Crystallized fruits. //Fancy cakes, decorated wdth bonbons. Remarks on Dessert No. 11.—In the centre group of flowers the rule generally recommended of using only growing plants may he departed from. T-lie circle of scarlet geraniums would hardly be glowing enough in single bloom; to obtain a great mass of coloirTj cut flowers must he resorted to. When this is done it is the easiest plan to use a wire frame on the glass dish; a row of geranium leaves may cover the edge of the dish, either with or without light ferns hanging over. The circle of scarlet geraniums should be surmounted by white chrysanthemums; these may be growing if a very full well-grown dwarf plant is at hand, if not, cut ones may do, hut are not so elegant. It is always a tempta- tion to use for ferns the lovely exotic maidenhair; hut as it will scarcely last crisp-looking through the dinner-time, it is safer to adopt some light drooping English fern. The Pteris tremula, an exotic but not a rare fern, is the prettiest of all for decoration, and lasts well. The common maidenhair {Adiantum nigruni), if the fronds are well-grown, is always pretty for edging flower designs. The groups of fruit are supposed to he arranged in a pyramid, surmounted, one by a melon and the other with a pine; oranges and apples mixed forming the base. Some people place the grapes at the bottom, hanging down round the dish, which has a very inelegant effect; a leaf and tendril here and there would be an _ improvement, hut heavy grapes, if used in that way, must be equally arranged all round, or there would he a want of balance, and the composition would be ugly. This profusion of expensive fruit is merely a suggestion: less may be made to look abundant. The season is now returning when the table admits of decoration; and cakes as well as dried fruit may be more showy, and the dishes he filled up with bonbons. 12 oranges, not too large. 12 bright Newtown pippins. 4 lbs. of grapes, filberts. 1 pineapple, 1 melon. 2 lbs. of crystallized fruit. 2 fancy cakes. 18 lady-apples. 18 Tangerine oranges. Bonbons. Cut geraniums, &c.