DINNERS FOR EACH MONTH. 227 References to the a centre design ^1111 lights and glass ; plants, maiden - hair, and pink Queen Margarets. bb two groups of fruit—apples, apricots, grapes, pineapple, and melon. PRECEDING Diagram. cc peaches, nectarines. dd sponge cakes. ee pears, figs. / mulberries, white and red currants. ggg;/ stands of ice. Remarks on Dessert, No. 8.—It is convenient here to intro- duce, for the middle of the centre group, some very light exotic fern: the maiden-hair surpasses all in being appropriate, as it is not only so beautiful, but the fronds in a well-grown plant cluster so thickly. Of China-aster the dwarf kind must be chosen for the circle round it. If the different pots vary in colour, do not place them alternately a light and dark, but try to arrange them in gradation of tint from light to dark, the latter passing again into the light: the effect of this is very pretty. At least six pots may be got into a glass ten or twelve inches in diameter, for the roots being slender will bear compression ; a few fronds of small fern may decorate the edge. The Allosorus crispus is very pretty for that purpose; but anything light will do. In August it is well to banish dried fruits and trust only to fresh ones. The two groups on each side the centre can hardly be too rich, and may be filled up by any of the same as are on the side dishes; but this must be done with judgment. A fashion has been introduced of filling up little spaces between fruits in a composition with small fiowers, but it seems to be a solecism in taste, destroying all breadth of effect, showing off neither fruit nor flower to advantage, and giving a patchwork sort of look to the whole table. One of the consequences of sticking little flowrets about is, that they lose their freshness before the dinner is over. The Flemish masters of flower painting, it is true, mixed flowers in their fruit pictures, but they formed a mass of relief, and were never dotted all over the composition. An enterprising innovator on the present fashion of desserts, might try to mix flowers and fruits in large masses for a top and bottom group. Some plan would have to be devised for supplying the flowers with mois- ture. The fruit required will be— 8 bright-looking apples. 8 apricots. C lbs. of grapes. 1 pineapple, 1 melon. 12 peaches, 12 nectarines. Sponge cakes; if ornamented with sugar, to be without colour. Peas, figs, mulberries, and white and red currants. 15—2