163 DINNERS EOR EACH MONTH. Eeference3 to the precedinq Diagram. « Centre epergne ivltli lights, plants, yellow azalea surrounded by Van- tliol tulips. bi Figm-es in biscuit china not less than a foot high. c Fruit—^grapes, and American apples. e Fruit—grapes, and pineapple. dd Macaroons, sponge biscuits. ee Oranges, half preserved. ff Dried fruits piled up, a few bonbons. gg Dried cherries, candled ginger. hh Fruits in syrup. Directions and Remarks for Dessert, No. 3.—The glass of the epergne will have to be arranged, in this dessert, with some attention. It is proposed to use plants, as in the preceding; but the azalea must be low and full of bloom, or it will have no effect. Could no effective plant be procured, it would be better to substitute a white heath, or white azalea, or two or three white hyacinths. It will require the tulips to be well-grown, three in each pot, all the same height ; a good deal of the mould must be taken away to get them low enough. They will look best if dark ones are together on one side, next them some bright scarlet, and shaded on to quite light on the opposite side. Four pots of three blooms each will do—but six would be better. A few ferns might hang over the sides of the glass; but not the maidenhair: though it would look lovely at first, even with water in the glass it will not last through the dinner. In arranging the two chief groups of fruits, it is here intended to recommend mounted shallow oval dishes ; the fruit to be laid rather carelessly on them—not piled up symmetrically. If there are two sorts of grapes, the purple look best, with pale- coloured American apples, and the white with the pine; lay the pine a little inclined on one side, and balance the composition by a cut branch of the vine with some tendrils. It would be admis- sible at this season to use an artificial branch and leaves; and a few smaller ones might be arranged among the bunches of grapes, and let to fall over the sides of the dish. They are to be had so well made that the picture would be pleasing. Remember that these groups are not to look formal. Four of the dishes in this dessert may be omitted, and the table will look quite as well. We are in March, getting to a season when the table is not wanted to look crowded. Though there are lights provided for the centre of the table, they will not supersede the addition of a suspended lamp, which is always effective. 4 lbs. of grapes. [apples. 8 light coloured American 1 pineapple, or melon. Artificial vine leaves, with short stem and tendrils. 12 sponge biscuits. 1 lb. macaroons. 1 lb. dried cherries, lib. candied ginger. 2 lbs. of fruits in syrup. 11—2