DINNEKS FOK ONE OR TWO GUESTS. 375 Raysols (rissoles); Galgut;)Tie and many others are in the Roll of Cury. One reasonable motive at liver of hens, and pork, and hew it small, and grinde it all to dust; take bread grated and do (put it) thereto, and temper it with the self broth, and alye (bind it together) with yelks of eggs, and cast thereon powder fort; boil it, and look that it be stonding (stand- ing, or stiff).” The cnriosities of this ancient cookery book are most amusing. One more specimen shall be copied, chosen partly for its quaint though vague style, and partly because the name is still applied to a German tartlet, which will be given among the miscellaneous receipts:— “ Daryols. “ Take creme of cowe milk and almonds; do thereto eggs, white sugar, saffron, and salt; meddle it (mix it); do it into a coffyn of two inches deep; bake it well.” The same desire to assert a primitive claim to a knowledge of the art of cookery has lately been expressed in Germany. Herr Bernhard Otto, in editing a curious old manuscript of receipts, says in his preface that “ some ladies have been eager for the publication of the work, in order to convince gastronomic Ger- many that, notwithstanding the present ascendancy of the French cuisine, there exists a record of a national system of cooking which our forefathers once practised with as entire success as our Western neighbours now practise theirs.” The old manuscript cookery book in question is known to be at least three hundred years old; for it was found at the late demolition of part of the refectory of the monastery of St. Paul at Leipzig, together with an earthen lamp and an iron poker, in a niche which had been walled 'up at the Reformation. The ladies of Leipsig, according to the editor’s statement, have tried many of the receipts thus brought to light, and are enchanted with the results; but as nearly all the savoury dishes are meat and poultry stewed in equal parts of wine and vinegar, with sour fruits, saffron, and spices in large quantities, English taste will scarcely be so delighted with them. There are, however, many curious things, in the mode of cooking, including one remarkable refinement. Raw flour is rarely ordered to be used for thickening; but, instead, bread soaked and rubbed through a sieve, or crushed toast, or sometimes crumbled gingerbread for savoury dishes! One of the