155 DINNERS FOR EACH MONTH. aimed at. The whole dish must look moist, the sweetbreads nearly white, and the larding transparent and standing up distinct and firm almost like glass, white at the bottom and pale yellow at the top. The directions here given cannot fail to ensure success, if they are only followed with sufilcient attention. It will he well to copy the receipt in a large, plain hand, and beg the cook to have it by her all the time, and follow it word by word, not trusting to a general understanding of what is to be done—at least, not till she has had much practice. This recommendation need not he repeated for other receipts, as it will more or less apply to all, and is of the greatest importance. Experienced cooks do not use the salamander, hut let the colouring of the larding take place in the braising. This requires very great care and practice to know when the time approaches for the colouring, to prevent its being done too much: a few minutes would spoil the whole; at first, therefore, it is safer to stop the braising before the colouring begins, and then use the salamander. Avery common negligence among cooks is that of not removing all the skin and tough pieces which seem to tie the body of the sweetbreads together. The cook should be warned against this neglect, for notliing is so disagreeable as having those tough pieces in the plate: the fault is so common, that many people refuse the entree on that aceount. It will be quite necessary, with a young cook,to send the sweetbreads to the poulterers to be larded, as it is even more difidcult to do than larding veal or beef. COTELETTES DE MOUTON ATJX PoiNTES d’AsPERGES. {Mutton Cutlets with Asparagus Heads.) The cutlets must be prepared, braised aud served, as directed on p. 119 ; they must be glazed lightly, and boiled asparagus heads put in the middle of the dish: bdchamelle sauce in the dish instead of tomato. Gelee d’Orange.—{Orange Jelly.) Take a Seville orange, rub a lump of loaf sugar on the rind; as the essence of orange-peel gets on the