203 DIN^NEKS EOR EACH MONTH. Kefebences to the pkeceding Diagbam. a Design in silver, ormolu, or China. 66 Low baskets—pink heaths or epa- cris, surrounded by white campa- nulas. cc Torchettes, six lights each. dd Groups of fruit—grapes, peaches, nectarines, pineapple, aud melon. ee Cakes without coloured ornaments. ff Red currants, white currants. gg Strawberries, raspberries, or cherries. hhhh Frosted glass stands holding ice. ii Sugar and waterjugs, &c. Remarks on Dessert, No. 6.—The plants proposed for the baskets in this dessert form the prettiest arrangement of any. The campanulas are to be growing in pots, and must be the dwarf sort of small white harebell. If they are in full bloom, when removed from the pots and pressed together in a circle standing with their little heads three or four inches above the rim of the baskets, they look like silver bells; and under a bright light have a most fairy-like effect. The middle may be filled with any pink fiowers, but they must be growing, as a bouquet would be too close and heavy for the hght rather spread appearance of the campanula stalks. The same arrangement is very pretty in an epergne glass; perhaps prettier, as there is more chance of light being seen through the white bells, which is so becoming to them. The group- ing of the fruit in this dessert should be rather picturesque than massive, and not piled up to any great height. I have not mentioned before that some very dry moss may be placed in the dish and concealed by leaves. The common plan of showing moss is ugly. Tliis concealed dry moss will support the upper end of the pineapple; and grapes may be laid on the bottom of the pineapple to balance it: a moderate sized pine is preferable, as a very large one could hardly be so treated. Peaches and nectarines will show here and there, and make up the composition. Leaves and tendrils may be introduced at pleasure. Nectarines will show best with white grapes, and peaches with the purple grapes aud green melon. It is diflicult to say how much firuit will be required for this dessert, as it depends on the size of the different sorts; if ordered at a fruiterer’s, it will be about the following:— 4 lbs. of grapes. 6 or 8 nectarines. 6 or 8 peaches. 1 pineapple, 1 small green melon. 2 lbs. of strawberries. 1 lb. of red currants, 1 lb. of white currants. 2 lbs. of raspberries. 12 sponge biscuits. 12 light vanilla biscuits or macaroons.