DINNERS EOR EACH MONTH. 191 RErERENCES TO THE a Torchette of six lights. lb Baskets of gloxinias. cc Groups of fruit—oranges, American apples, surrounded by a pineapple or melon, and small pomelo. PRECEDING Diagram. d Oranges in syrup, e Compote of fruit. ff Savoy biscuits, macaroons. hh Orange rings, crystallized fruits. Remaeks on Dessekt, No. 5.—There are not many fresh directions required for arranging this table. The gloxinias must be small plants in good flower: the rich green leaves will probably entirely conceal the rim of the basket; they may, therefore, perhaps, be placed in it without taking the mould out of the pot. A symmetrical high pile of fruits will suit the style of the gloxinias, which is rich and heavy. A few bright lady apples, put in to fill up spaces, may relieve the grapes with ad- vantage. The oranges in syrup will be prepared on the day they are wanted : they must have all the rind removed, so as to look as clear and yellow as possible; then have boiling syrup poured over them, and be left to cool. Some of the rind must be cut as thin as possible, and then with a rolling cutter made into strips a quarter of an inch wide. These strips must be boiled for a few minutes in water, with some pink colouring, and -when they have taken a rich tint, be dipped in the syrup, and placed in neat form round the oranges when they are served : the syrup, when cold, will be served in the dish, with a tablespoonful of brandy in it. If the weather is hot, ice may be on the table in frosted glass-stands; but it is seldom welcome so early in the season. The plants in the two baskets may be changed, if more convenient, for dwarf rose-trees, with wreaths of forced lilies of the valley taken out of their pots. The quantity of fruit to be ordered will be about— 12 Newtown pippins, or 6 com- mon apples and 6 Ame- rican. 12 oranges. 8 Tangerines. 8 lady apples. 4 lbs. of grapes. 1 small pomelo. 1 pineapple, i lb. of Savoys. 1 lb. of macaroons. 1 lb. of orange rings. 1 lb. of crystallized fruits. 1 compote of preserved fruit.