DINJSTERS FOR EACH MONTH. 237 EeFEI!ENCES to the PEECEDINQ DlAOnAlt. a torchette of six lights. bb baskets pink Cliina-asters, sur- rounded by small white and purple fuchsias. c M-hite grapes, nectarines, pine. d purple grapes, peaches, small melon. ee pears and apples. ff cakes. gg crystallized fruits. Remarks on Dessert, No. 9.—This arrangement supposes the absence of a suspended lamp, therefore three torchettes will he required. The baskets of flowers, in case there should be none at hand either of china or basket work, may be managed by making circles of pasteboard thus; have a suflScient number of laurel leaves, and with a little gum fasten them upright against the pasteboard; if tins to line these should also be wanting, a place fitting the bottom, and a thick paper lining coming up the inside of the pasteboard, would support the mould of the plants sufficiently. The China-asters must be dwarfs and thickly grown; they may be all colours, but pink alone has the best efiect with the green baskets and white table-cloth. The white and purple fuchsias must hang outside the baskets, and will have a very nice efiect. This sort of makeshift basket, though plain and unpretending, will look far better than a heavy wine cooler with a single plant doing duty where it was never intended to be put. A few rare wine coolers are to be seen in a light form of vase, which would look well on a table, but the common pattern ought not to come nearer than the sideboard. The two groups of fruit are intended to be flat; they will be sufficiently handsome without the pine and melon! The torchettes will be better omitted if there is a suspended lamp, and be well replaced by statuettes of biscuit china, or a pair of China vases, provided their design is not clumsy. materials required 4 to 5 lbs. of grapes. 1 melon. 1 pine. 10 bright-coloured apples. 18 pears. 6 nectarines. 6 peaches. FOR THE DESSERT. 1 lb. of filberts. 12 sponge biscuits. 1 lb. macaroons. 2 lbs. of crystallized fruits. China-asters, and 4 or 5 plants of fuchsias very low in growth.