277 DINNEKS EOK EACH MONTH. jREFEHENCES TO THE PRECEDING DlAGBAH. a Eperf^ne, holding lights and glass dish; group of holly and mistletoe. ib Assiettes montees, holding bonbons. cc Groups of fruit—grapes, oranges, apples, pine, and Marie Louise pear. dd Tangerine oranges, and lady apples. e Dates, decorated ivith bonbons. / Raisins and almonds, with bonbons. ff Dried figs, bonbons. A Half-dried cherries, and candied ginger. ii'ii Biscuits, viz.;—sponge-cakes, ma- caroons, vanilla biscuits, fancy bis- cuits. Kemarks and Directions for Dessert, No. 12.—Like the preceding desserts this supposes that there is a suspended lamp ; two torchettes of three lights each, must be added if there is not one. The centre of the epergne in honour of Christmas is designed without growing plants, which are replaced by holly. It would look well with dark-leaved holly in the middle, but that will look gloomy, unless more red berries are added than are likely to be found in any branches; they may be easily fixed by some very fine wire. Having arranged these in close form in the middle of the glass, fill up in a circle round with white variegated holly and mistletoe; the latter may fall a little over and have some of its white berries added to the stems by wire to increase the effect. With a brilliant light they will look very pretty. The arrangement can of course be reversed, and the white grouped in the centre. But the effect is not quite so good. In the top and bottom groups of fruit, the foundation of one may be American apples, of the other, common oranges, not too large. Tlie grapes will lie over them, and be surmounted in one disb by a pine, in the other by a large Marie Louise pear. For a December party the table can hardly be over-ornamented with bonbons, and the heavily piled up fruits at each end are more admissible than in summer. For the first time common dried fruits, such as figs, raisins, &c. are introduced in a dessert. They are not orna- mental, and after a large dinner are rarely attractive. It is in general, therefore, thought better taste not to crowd the table with such things, as they spoil the effect of prettier objects. 12 oranges. 12 American apples. 4 lbs. of Jersey grapes. 1 pine. 1 large Marie Louise pear. 18 lady apples. 18 Tangerine oranges. 2 lbs. of raisins, ^ lb. of sweet almonds. 2 lbs. of figs. 2 „ dates. 1 „ dried cherries, 1 lb. of candied ginger. Cakes and bonbons.