DINNERS FOR EACH MONTH. 215 Refehences to the pbecedinq Diagram. a Torchette with six lights. bb Blocks of rough ice. cc Bdskets or iow China vases of roses and ferns. dd Groups of fruit—grapes, pineapple, melon, peaches, and nectarines. ee Torchettes of three lights each. jy Strawberries, raspberries. g Mulberries. h Cherries. i Sponge biscuits. k Vanilla biscuits or macaroons. nil Glass stands of ice. Remarks on Dessert, No. 7.—The month of July is chosen to introduce a novelty; on each side the centre torchette place blocks of rough ice, in pieces of about ten or twelve pounds each; they may be cut into neat shapes, but not too symmetrical; flat vases of silver, china, or terra-cotta may be used to support them, and hold the water as it melts, care being taken that there is no danger of the water dripping as it melts upon the table-cloth. A few very light ferns would look well, shading the ice here and there, or drooping over the vases; if terra-cotta is used, it must be of the palest tint, as baked earthen colour would look heavy. Moss must not be introduced : it would destroy the light effect, and give an unpleasant smell. Silver wine coolers might be used, but would not look nearly so well as terra-cotta vases, which are easily attainable. The baskets proposed to be on each side are those low circles of wicker-work already described, flve inches high and lined with tin. In July, they would look better white and gold, than gilded all over. A very delicate fern, or some fronds of maiden-hair, may form the middle, and the rest be filled up with rich cut roses : arrange the tints of the roses not promiscuously, but passing from light to darker. The light may either form the centre part and lead down to the sides, or the arrangement may be reversed; or the whole group of roses of a single pink tint, con- trasted with the light green ferns, would be as pretty as any; but differently tinted ones mixed about would spoil the whole table. The groups of fruit may be arranged according to the hints already given; it will be desirable to keep the top and bottom compositions low, and not too formal, so that the eye may be carried upwards past the roses to the ice, and to the lights above. A great quantity of light will be required to be reflected on the ice; therefore, the extra torchettes in this instance, which should not be very high, would look well, even if there should be a sus- pended lamp.