DINNERS EOR EACH MONTH. 145 Refeeences to the a Design in silver or ormolu. bb Baskets of plants—pinks, hyacinths, or heaths, surrounded by irhite primulas. ec Assiettes montdes; two or three heights holding bonbons. dd Torchettes. PRECEDING Diagram. ee Groups of fruit—oranges, grapes, American apples, Alberts. ff Sponge cakes ornamented. gg Dried apricots, not candied; pears the same. hh Tangerine oranges, lady apples. iiii Two fruits in syrup, orange rings, and candied ginger. Directions ani> Remarks.—This arrangement supposes the possession of some work of art in silver, ormolu, or china, as well as a suspended lamp. The centre design should be rather high: sufficiently so, at least, to surmount the other pieces of the service, as a composition falling in the middle has an uncomfortable effect, Objects, though beautiful in themselves, had better not be intro- duced when the general effect is sacrificed by their presence. The flowers, or rather plants, are managed differently in this dessert to any we have yet proposed. There should be two baskets, or rather circles, of wicker-work (for they do not want bottoms) ten or eleven inches in diameter, five inches high, and very little more spread at top than at the bottom. They may be painted white, with gold edges at top and bottom, or be gilded all over. A tray of tin must just fit in each. By this means, when the plants are taken out of the pots, there will be good room for them without their standing above the sides of the basket. The white primulas must be of equal height, and have good bloom: four will be enough for each basket, or even three might do. Arrange the outside leaves to lie prettily over the edge of the baskets. There are several other flowers that suit for this arrangement, but they must all be low in growth. The two large groups of fruit are intended to be high; the groundwork of one being apples, of the other oranges, filled up with moss; the bunches of grapes should be tied together over the moss, and the summit grouped up with filberts; a lady apple or two, or Tangerine orange, may be inserted to fill up spaces. The four smaller dishes in this dessert may be left out with advantage. 10 oranges. 18 American apples, or 5 com- mon, and 5 Newtown pippins. 1 lb. of filberts. 2 ornamented sponge cakes of middling height. 2 lbs. of dried apricots. 2 lbs. „ pears. 1 lb. „ orange rings. 1 lb. candied ginger. 9 Tangerine oranges. 9 lady apples. 6 or 8 low white primulas. 4 pink hyacinths, or 2 pink heaths, bonbons, stamped papers. 2 lbs. preserved fruits in syrup* 10