DINNEES FOE EACH MONTH. 127 References to the pheoedino'Diageam. a Centre, ivith six candles, and dish for flowers—white primuias and pink hyacinths. b 1 High group of fruit — oranges, Ribston pippins, grapes. b 2 High ip-oup of fruit — oranges, American apples, pears, grapes, c 1 Lady apples. e 2 Tangerine oranges. Cakes, piled high — ornamented with fruits made of confectionery. ee Crystallized fruits piled up high^ ornamented with bonbons. // Torchettes of three candles each. ffg Water-jugs and glasses. A A Sugar. Eesiarks Oil Table and Dessert.—This diagram of a table is given more as a suggestion than a rule; the arrangement of centre- piece torchettes, &c., must, of course, depend on what the house affords. Various modes of setting out a dessert will follow, some of which may be found suitable to the means of everybody. The chief points to be observed are not to crowd the table, and not to use dishes, some high, some low, some small, and some great; but to preserve a simple uniform design: also, rather to afford a few dishes handsomely filled than to add a number of little things which no one cares for. Single plants have a poor effect; they had better be grouped together in the centre or on each side of it. This dessert No. 1 supposes an epergne holding lights and a glass dish; the fiowers to be primulas and hyacinths. To arrange them' let the primulas be low plants in good flower; take them frorn the pots, shake off much of the mould, and having lined the glass with paper (not too white), press in the roots. Do the same with two pink hyacinths, which are to be in the centre. Cover the mould lightly with moss, and sprinkle all moderately with water. List of Materials to be ordered for Dessert No. 1. 18 oranges. 8 American apples (fine colour). S Eibston pippins. 8 pears. 4 lbs. of Jersey grapes. 18 lady apples. 18 Tangerine oranges. 2 lbs. of cakes. 3 lbs. of crystallized fruits. Bonbons and fruits made of sugar. 2 fine pink hyacinths, grown in the same pot. 4 low white primulas.