118 SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR imitations. Several idle methods are substituted for the somewhat tedious process described in this receipt; the temptation is great to take an easier course, and it is likely that you may have to listen to many plausible excuses, and often have to insist on the true method before you will convince your cook that it is the right one. ^ Probably you yourself care little for such delicacies, and were right enough, in past days of young-lady freedom from responsibility, to let them pass unnoticed; now, however, it will be Avise to learn what they are like at some house irhere the cuisine has a reputation, and then taste at your own table and compare. To help this inquiry, it will be useful to state what quenelles should he, and what they commonly are, and the reasons. Quenelles should be white and smooth, light, and of even tex- ture, yet firm, and of the consistence of a moderately hard boiled egg; in taste rich, yet free from any particular fiavour: no taste of spice, herb, or sauce should be perceptible. The commonest fault is, that they crumble down on being cut, like a boiled bread- pudding, Avhilst the delicate flavour is wanting. You may then safely reproach the cook with having introduced a large proportion of bread-crumbs soaked in milk, thereby saving more than half the work of pounding. Now the use of so much pounding is thoroughly to assimilate the materials, and it cannot be dispensed with. The cook then will drop her plea on the head of expediency, and fall back upon economy: but this most politic of excuses will probably merely afibrd you occasion for a little lecture on thrift in general, showing how false saving is real extravagance, and how a spoiled produc- tion at one-half the due expense is wasted by the whole value of that half, the thing when done being worthless; and should you tremble to extinguish a rare spark of economizing spirit, you could proceed to eulogize all sorts of saving substitutions in cases where the result can really be successful. But to return to our quenelles. Through another common fault, you may find that, Avhen cut into, the mass is marbled, hard and soft in little patches, with a taste of potted meat, quite unlike the real thing; this will prove that prepared meat has been used instead of raw meat fresh pounded, and an over quantity of eggs added : the saving of immediate trouble by this is manifest, but the error fatal. Again, a taste of nutmeg or onion, or anything predominant, proves the introduc- tion of flavouring materials; Avhereas the small quantity of good stock and bechamelle, containing a variety in minute portions, is ordered, not only to moisten the mass, but to insure that all indivi dual flavours may be sufficiently subdued.