2 BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. sedentary occupations or moderate digestions, sportsmen, and men of active habits like, or rather what likes them. The Author thinks that in a country house, which contains, probably, a sprinkling of good and bad appetites and digestions, breakfasts should consist of a variety to suit all tastes, viz. : fish, poultry, or game, if in season; sausages, and one meat of some sort, such as mutton cutlets, or fillets of beef; omelets, and eggs served in various ways ; bread of both kinds, white and brown, arid fancy bread of as many kinds as can be conveniently served ; two or three kinds of jam, orange marmalade, and fruits when in season ; and on the side table, cold meats, such as ham, tongue, cold game, or game pie, galantines, and in winter a round of spiced beef of Mr. Degue, of Derby. The Author hopes that his ideas of breakfasts for large parties may not be considered too exalted or too extravagant; they need not be so, if the mistress or the chef (in cases where the chef has the entire control) only possesses the rare, although, if comfort is to be ob- tained, the very necessary gift of “common sense.” He cannot understand why England should be so behind- hand in the requirements necessary to the comfort of this meal. In Scotland it is quite a different thing; good breakfasts are the rule, not the exception. Only travel to Scotland, and arrive at Perth Station ; in the refresh- ment room you see it at once: excellent fish, excellent meats, excellent jams, and bread and rolls of all sorts; and so it is in nearly all houses and in many hotels. Punctuality by host and guests should be strictly observed. No cook, however good or careful, can send up broiled fish, cutlets, or kidneys, really well done, if they are to be kept waiting; and if sent up in dishes with a light underneath they get dry, and if in common dishes, cold. One other remark, and the Author has finished his advice for this chapter; it is, that in large houses, where there are many guests and plenty of ser- vants, he most strongly recommends, although it may spoil the sociability of the meal, that breakfast should