14 breakfasts, luncheons, and ball suppers. London ; CHAPMAN AND HALT., Limited. SEVENTH THOUSAND. BREAKFAST AND SAVOURY DISHES. By R. O. C., Compiler of the “ OfiBcial Handbook for the National Training School for Cookery.” Crown 8vo. Is. Prom “THE TIMES.” “ The success which has attended the publication of the Official Handbook of the National Training School for Cookery—a collection of recipes, indeed, rather than a handbook in the accepted sense of the title—has encouraged the compiler, R. O. C., to issue a shilling pamphlet entitled * Breakfast and Savouiy* Dishes,’ for the preparation of which forty-three recipes have been drawn up with careful detail. Loose phraseology of the old cookery books, such as take a ‘ little ’ or a ‘ pinch’ or a ‘ spoonful,’ and so forth, is discarded, and precis, terms and quantities are used instead. At the head of each recipe the quantity of ingredients required for carrying out the recipe, and the cost thereof, are given. Of the forty-three recipes three are allotted to the preparation of potables in ordinary use at the British break- fast-table. A warning note is sounded against allowing tea to stand longer than five minutes, after which the decoction becomes charged with an unwholesome amount of tannin. Deliberate operations are insisted upon for the making of good coffee, and the use and re-use of cocoa-nibs are expounded. Then follow ten methods of making breads, scones, galettes, muffins, crumpets, oat-cakes, short-bread, milk-rolls, and Yorkshire tea-cakes. Somersetshire girdle (or gridiron) cake niight very well have been added to this list. A daintier and not more costly way of cooking aufs an beurre noir is by treating each egg separately, and serving it in a little pipkin or cocote ; and a few more than three recipes for various savoury omelettes might have been given in place of those for potted meats, which do not recommend themselves to small households while endless tins ot potted meats are procurable at any grocers. Then useful recipes for cooking fish—including a succulent arrangement of lobster augratin (at a cost of 3s. gd.)—follow next ; and the series concludes with recipes for grilled and devilled chicken or turkey, and lor pigeon pie, in the completion of which the necessity of following the sound practice of pouring flavoursome gravj^ through the hole in the crust of the baked pie is enforced. “ This little book, as will be seen, is intended for the ready and managing housekeeper. But a Vatel may not find many of its suggestions beneath his notice.” FOURTEENTH THOUSAND. NATIONAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR COOKERY: Containing Lessons on Cookery; forming the Course of Instruction in the School. With List of Utensils necessary, and Lessons on Cleansing Utensils. Compiled by R. O. C. Large crown 8vo. 8s. From “THE TIMES.” “ As a Christmas present a book upon cookery obviously has many and appropriate recommendations. In the ‘ Official Handbook ’ there are, for instance, some very lucid and explicit directions for the making of a plum-pudding, merely to read oyer the ingredients for which has a tendency to make the mouth water. The cost of this article of luxury is, how- ever, something over 4s.—a large sum for poor people to disburse even on unusual occasions of festivity. -A book such as this will, it is probable, be appreciated mostly by those to whom economy in the kitchen is a matter of serious consideration. Turning, therefore, to another page, it is gratifying to find that it is possible to provide, at the cost only of iid., not quite so rare a dainty, perhaps, but a good solid one, three-quarters of a pound in weight. Many other dishes, too, are here set forth, which read as though they should taste well, and the preparation of which need not alarm the thriftiest. The good point about the book is that it presupposes complete ignorance on the part of the pupil; nothing is left to haphazard : quantity is given in its exact and due proportion, and the price of each ingredient carefully set down. All these lessons, moreover, have been practically tested in the National Training School, and may therefore be accepted in good faith. It is not, however, to be supjiosed that any cunning recipes of rare and costly dishes are to be found in this book ; the first principles ’ of good cookery is the lesson it professes to teach, and certainly the method of tuition is direct and easy to follow.”