12 BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. third edition. THE PYTCHLEY BOOK OF REFINED COOKERY and bills of fare. By Major L***** Large crown 8vo. 8s. The author has done his work in the proper way. He begins on the right principle by giving a gross of bills of fare. They supply an aim, and his introductions and general rules are Witten with an energy which can hardly fail to inspire the indispensable enthusiasm. • • • ^ great merit of Major L*****'s recipes is, that Among the five hundred and D //gives, a very large proportion are really possible lor small households.”— Pall Mall Gazette. . , author has arranged his volume with evident care, and a number of vtenus suitable for each month of the year are given in French and English. They are distinguished by variety and economy, and are manilestly the compilation of one who knows well how to appreciate a good dinner well served. . . . The volume cannot fail to prove of service to all who care to live well, and at the same time to study reasonable economy.”—Society. " This is a volume which will be found particularly useful during the approaching hunting season, and to those who are in the habit of giving hunt breakfasts or similar parties it will be invaluable. The author deals w'ith the subject of cookery in a lucid and exhaustive manner, a special feature in the publication being a collection of ‘bills of fare,’ which comprises twelve for each month of the year. ‘ Wines and their service’ are also dealt with.”—Sports7>tan. “ ‘ I^he Pytchley Book of Refined Cookery and Bills of Fare,’by Major L***** is evidently the production of a man who has studied the gastronomic art with great interest. The book opens with a number of vienns in French and in English, twelve for each month, and then goes on to give, shortly and clearly, the recipes for cooking the dishes which have been set out; and it leaves nothing to Ire desired. It is handsomely got up, and beyond doubt will have a considerable popularity.”—Scotsman. " Contains a large number of excellent me7ius and a good deal of valuable advice.”— Athenceum. We consider this a most excellent book for the Pytchley or any other country. There are twelve Bills of Fare in English and French for each month, made out with the strictest economy consistent with refined cookery, and between five and six hundred receipts, that any cook, old or young, might unravel—even a victim to School Board overcramming! The chapter devoted to wines, and how to bring them up to table, applies equally to the cheaper as well as more costly vintages.”—Naval a7td Alilitary Gazette. SEVENTH THOUSAND. HOW TO COOK FISH. A Series of Lessons in Cookery, from the Official Handbook to the National Training School for Cookery, South Kensington, Compiled by “ R. O. C.” Crown 8vo, sewed, 3d. SICK-ROOM COOKERY. From the Official Handbook to the National School for Cookery, South Kensington. Compiled by “ R. O. C.” Crown 8vo, sewed, 6d. FIFTH THOUSAND. THE ROYAL CONFECTIONER: English and Foreign. A Practical Treatise. By C. E. Francatelli. With numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 5s. THE KINGSWOOD COOKERY BOOK. By H. F. Wicken. Crown 8vo, 2s. London: CHAPMAN AND HALL, Limited.