HUNTING LUNCHEONS. 40 country some years, and could count on his fingers the few who have had eatable things in their cases. He remembers it being reported that a certain young gentle- man (which at the time afforded much amusement to the “ Coffee-housers ”) lunched on meat-jelly, which he ate with a silver spoon. It has often struck him that a little of this jelly applied to the scoffers’ dry sandwiches or pies would have been a godsend. Such being the case, he has come to the conclusion that the only good things to take are either good meat pies, full of jelly, cold cutlets, or slices of galantines, or rolls the size of the case filled with fish or chicken salad. There is no difficulty whatever in the matter. The Author recommends that the hunting luncheon-case, if a hunting-case is carried, should have a division, one side for the pie or cold cutlets, the other for bread, cake, or plum pudding. The tins in which these pies can be made should be the size of the case, and can be obtained from Messrs. Adams’, in the Haymarket, of Monsieur Beguinot’s (of St. James’ Street) design, and his receipt for making them is given in Chapter XVII.,and he will,if required,send the pies by post ready made. Messrs. Farrow & Jackson, of the Haymarket, have made some of these hunting-cases, so they can be obtained from them in any size if ordered. The next business is, what is the best thing to put in one’s flask "i The Author says decidedly whisky and aerated water, of any sort the reader prefers. If whisky is not liked substitute brandy, and if any gentleman objects to spirits and must have port wine, let him get some old wine from the “ wood.” It is an idiotic thing to take fine old bottled port; it gets so shaken up that before one has jogged a mile it is completely spoilt, and so wasted ; if, however, any one thinks the Author’s remark idiotic, pray let him take old bottled port; probably many don’t know the difference, and the old saying of A man convinced against his will Is of the same opinion still, will be the result.