THEORY OF MEMBRANES. 415 When it is considered, how rapidly Bichat pushed his researches,—the extent and the variety of his labours,—the short period of his professional life— whilst one admires his genius, and admires with astonishment his efforts,—one cannot be surprised at his inaccuracies.* Bichat's propensity to generalization was ex- treme ; it may be considered almost as a passion in him; all his writings are characteristic of it. It enabled him to form brilliant hypotheses,—most ex- tensive general views,—so much the more dangerous on account of their brilliancy,—and the ingenuity, * This extraordinary man,—according to M. Husson, was born on the 14th November, 1771 ; according to M. Pinel, on the 22d No- vember, 1772. In his 22d or 23d year, viz. in 1793, he went to Paris to finish his medical education. A month only after his arrival, he attracted the favourable notice of Desault, and became his assistant. This great surgeon died in 1795. Bichat then com- menced his public life; he collected and edited Desault's works in an incredibly short time, and that same year gave his first course of anatomy. In 1800, after eighteen months devoted to research, he published his treatise on membranes; the same year his treatise on Life and Death; the following year his System of General Ana- tomy ; and the commencement of his System of Descriptive Ana- tomy. On the 22d July, 1802, he died after an illness of a few days, supposed to have been owing in part to inhaling offensive effluvia in carrying on some researches on the putrefaction of animal matter. Thus, in the short period of about nine years he ran his astonishing career as an original inquirer. Pinel, from whose notice of the life of Bichat, these particulars are chiefly taken; states, that during one winter, he opened more than six hundred bodies,—and immediately after gave the results of his observations in a course of lectures on Morbid Anatomy, in which he undertook to shew, that each texture has a peculiar mode of disease forming a part of its peculiar vital character.