EXPERIMENTS AND OBSERVATIONS 50 Aristotle appears to have attributed the effect of coagulation to the presence of a fibrinous matter in the blood, either in the state of minute solid fibres, or liquid with the power of forming fibres. From an incidental expression,* it is not improbable that the latter was his opinion; and that he considered the matter liquid whilst the blood was in motion in the living animal, like the matter of curd in uncoagu- lated milk ; and, solid only and fibrous, after extrac- tion, the coagulation being the effect of the change.f * Meteorol. lib. iv. c. 7. D. t Harvey thus gives the opinions entertained by Aristotle re- specting the blood: " Aristoteles (a) quoque ut sanguinem alendi gratia institutum putavit, ita cundem etiam veluti b partibus com- positum censuit. Nempe ex crassiore et atra, quce in fundum pelvis inter concrescendum subsidit, eaque pars illi deterior habetur (b): sanguis enim, inquit, si integer est, rubet et dulcis saporis est; sed, si vel natura vel morbo sit vitiatus, atrior cernitur. Ex parte etiam fibrosa sive fibris constare voluit: iisque demptis, ait (c), sanguis neque concresit neque spissatur. In sanguine preeterea saniem agno- vit: Sanies, inquit, sanguis incoctus est; aut, quia nondum percoctus, aut quod in seri modum dilutus fuerit. Atque hunc frigidiorem esse ait: fibras autem partem sanguinis terrenam esse statuit." (d) There are other particulars mentioned by Aristotle respecting the blood, not uninteresting in the history of this fluid, and clearly shewing what great attention he had paid to it:—the following are some of the more remarkable. " Sanguis in primis necessarius communisque sanguineis omnibus animalibus est, nec adventitius suppetit, sed vemaculus, atque inti- mus in omnibus integris, atque imputidus habetur. Venas (he in- cluded the aorta and its branches) hie vasa sibi, et conceptacula (a) De Part. Anim. lib. ii. c. 3. (b) De Hist. Animal, lib. iii. c. 19. (c) De Hist. Animal, lib. iii. c. 19. (d) De General. Animal. 402. (Op. Om. a Col. Med. Lond. Edit.)