464 OBSERVATIONS ON PUS. way have access to the purulent fluid, and it be subjected to the air-pump, the result, as might be expected, will be different. In one instance, I had proof of this in an experiment with the air-pump on some pus from the pleura, in a case of empyema complicated with pneumothorax, of many months' duration, in which an opening had spontaneously formed in an intercostal space, discharging daily a small quantity of purulent fluid of good consistence and colour; although entirely free from fetor, this pus under the exhausted receiver gave off a good deal of air.* * Some pages back I have given the results of experiments appa- rently shewing, that air is not contained in the animal solids and fluids in their normal state. I perceive, that Professor Burdach has arrived at a different conclusion, and that he refers to Dr. Dalton in support of it. In the 8th volume of his Physiology considered as a Science of Observation (cap. ii. 4.) he remarks: " There are many inorganic bodies, especially water and the earths, which absorb air, and sometimes even to an extent exceeding their own volume, and consequently condense and render it latent. The orga- nic substance also exhibits an attraction of this kind for air in a very high degree. Dalton (Bibliotheqne Univ. de Gen. t. liv. p. 130) has proved in the following manner, the existence of a considerable quantity of air in combination in the human body. " The lungs and stomach are the only parts of the body which con- tain free air; the former with a capacity of 100 cubic inches, the latter of 50; but the volume of the whole body is about 4500 cubic inches, or setting aside the lungs and stomach, 4350 cubic inches for the whole of the remaining solids and fluids. Now, as the mean specific gravity of these is 1050, their weight for their volume ought to be equal to 4567 cubic inches of water, that is, 164 lbs.; but the real weight of a man alive of the bulk in question is only 146 lbs. that is equal to 4044 cubic inches of water; consequently it is neces- " sary that the solids and liquids during life should be penetrated