OBSERVATIONS ON PUS. 4()5 2.—It is commonly stated that the specific gravity of pus is 1030. * According to my experiments this quality is far from fixed; I have found it con- with air; and that thus they should attain a specific gravity inferior to that which belongs to them when examined apart, detached, after death, when a portion of their air is disengaged."—" Dalton (he continues) states further in support of this argument, that when the hand is applied to the orifice of a receiver on the plate of an air- pump, on exhaustion, it is felt to he drawn in and to swell, because the air contained in the part tends to escape." Neither the argument used by this distinguished man, nor the example, I apprehend, can with propriety be opposed to the residts of actual experiments. But waving this, are the data on which he reasons, established in fact ? Is the mean specific gravity of the solids and fluids so high as 1050 ? And is the specific gravity of a dead part detached, independent of difference of temperature, higher than before it was detached and during life ? I believe a sufficient num- ber of accurate experiments have not yet been made to determine the first question. The second I believe must be answered in the negative; from all I have witnessed in trials with the air-pump, I am con- vinced, that instead of air being expelled after the excision of a part and after death, and the specific gravity of the part increased, the contrary happens,—air enters into it, especially its divided vessels, and its specific gravity is diminished. Even admitting the data, the reasoning seems defective, inasmuch as though the specific gravity of the whole body must be diminished by the penetration of air, the weight of the whole body must be increased by it. Relative to the drawing in of the hand and its apparent swelling, in the instance adduced, the effect admits of easy explanation, by reference to the operation of atmospheric pressure disturbed : on the side from which the air is exhausted, resistance is withdrawn, the hand is pressed in from the force acting from without, and if a blood-vessel be opened, [as is witnessed in the operation of cupping, the vessels being subjected to pressure on one side and not on the other,] the blood will flow freely in vacuum. I have already given the result of subjecting portions of vessels containing blood to exhaustion, not partial but on every side, indicating no expansion, no swelling. * Dr. Pearson found, in two instances, a certain relation between VOL. II. H H