OF THE CARTILAGINOUS FISHES. 455 unmixed fluid they retained life for three or four days after removal from the fish,—until signs ap- peared of incipient putrefaction. The testes of the torpedo are distinguished from those of the thornback and common ray, by wanting that milt-like margin or appendage, described by Baron Cuvier, and before noticed and figured by Monro.* Should it be found wanting in all the viviparous species of cartilaginous fishes, its presence in the oviparous may be considered as a link be- tween them and the osseous oviparous fishes fur- nished with milts. Perhaps in the milt-like part of the testes of the ray and thornback, the ova of the are not excited into motion by salt water, but by fresh water. Should the conjecture I have thrown out be confirmed by more extensive observation, we shall have reason to admire so much the more the refined adaptation of that instinct by which certain fishes (as the salmon) are impelled to quit the sea their native element, and ascend rivers, the fresh water of which, whilst it is injurious to their own health, is probably alone fitted for the early development and life of their young. The sensibility of young fishes relative to the quality of water appears to be very great; the fetal torpedo dies more rapidly when plunged into fresh water than when exposed to the atmosphere; in the former in about fifteen minutes it dies convulsed. * Op. et loc. cit.—Dr. Monro, in his able work on Fishes, de- scribes the organ which he considered as holding the place of the testicle, as " a substance composed partly of a white matter like the milt, and partly of small spherical bodies." He adds, " from these an epididymis is produced, chiefly composed of convoluted tubes, which terminate in a serpentine vas deferens." His attention does not appear to have been particularly directed to the connexion be- tween the testis and the epididymis; as he makes no mention of the difficulty of demonstrating it, it may be inferred, that he took its ex- istence for granted.