ACTION OF LIME ON THE TEXTURES, ETC. 291 From the results of many experiments which I have made with lime, on animal substances, I have been compelled to come to the conclusion, that this opinion is not well founded in fact,—indeed, that it is altogether erroneous. The experiments were commenced in Malta, in the summer of 1829, and they were carried on dur- ing the following year. The method observed, was to immerse the animal matter for trial, in cream of lime, or rather a paste of lime, contained in a wide- probably be decided by a fact that had come to the knowledge of one of the justices, John Milner, Esq., appointed to inspect into the affair, and w ill serve to prevent the practice of burying them with lime for the future, as it makes it more than probable that malignant particles (by the operation of the lime) may be sent up, and spread through the air." The fact referred to was the following, " Mr. Stallwood, a farmer, at Hackney, informs the justices to whom the care of the distempered cattle was committed; that he had buried thirteen cows, very deep, with the quantity of lime appointed by the justices; and, observing his dogs to scratch, and tear up the ground with their feet, to get at the cow's flesh, (the lime fermenting and causing a foam as he called it, or strong scent of meat to arise, which made the dogs so eager to come at it), he beat them off several times; but the dogs always re- turning, as soon as he was gone, for some time he hired a boy to keep them off. But that he had buried several other cows in another place, with their hides cut and slashed, without any lime, and the dogs never attempted to scratch or tear up the ground there." Two bushels of lime were allowed to each cow. With lime, the bodies were buried ten feet deep; without lime, eight feet deep. Relative to the explanation of the fact,—was not the difference observed in the two instances owing to this,—that in the one the dogs were attracted by the smell of the meat preserved by the lime, —and not in the other, where it was not so preserved, and where it was undergoing putrefaction? u 2