226 TRIALS WITH THE AIR-PUMP ON each instance, the result was perfectly negative. As synovia, from its viscid nature, is peculiarly apt to froth or entangle air, it is not surprising that such an opinion as that referred to by the very eminent French pathologist should have arisen.* Of serous fluids I have hitherto made but few trials; they have been confined to the liquor pericardii and * The same opinion is expressed by Laennec in another passage, the correctness of parts of which are very questionable. On account of the importance of the subject, practically as well theoretically con- sidered, I shall quote his words at length: " Tous les bruits qui se passent dans l'interieur du corps, et que Ton peut entendre a, l'oreille nue, sont dus aux mouvemens de quel que substance qui se trouve en contact avec un gaz. C'est ainsi que l'on entend les borborygmes dans les intestins, la fluctuation hippocratique dans le pneuma- thorax avec epanchement liquide, et raeme celle qui a lieu dans l'estomac, le bruit de la crepitation determine par l'inspiration ou par les battemens du cceur dans quelques emphys ernes des parois thoraciques, la craquement des doigts chez certain sujets dont les articulations contiennent habituellement un gaz, un bruit analogue et accompagne de crepitation manifeste sous la main, dans les pneumar- throses qui succedent frequemment au rhumatisme articulaire, et particulierement dans 1'articulation du genou."—Op. cit. ii. 456. In this passage some important truths are mixed with opinions of more or less doubtful accuracy. As the vibrations essential to sound can take place in a fluid, and an elastic fluid is not absolutely re- quired, there is no good reason why several of the sounds mentioned may not be produced without the presence of air; I shall notice only one in particular by way of illustration, that of the cracking of the fingers—"le craquement des doigts:"—this sound was produced in two of the fatal cases noticed in the text, in which the capsules of the joints and sheaths of tendons were examined for air, and without a particle being detected, even in the joints which emitted the sound on extension. And this instance, I apprehend, is applicable by an- alogy, to all others in which firm or hard surfaces are subject either to attrition or concussion.