56 EXPERIMENTS AND OBSERVATIONS however, it appears to me, is, judging from the writings of Jurin, * Haller, f and Marherr, J that the views on the subject of the blood entertained by our great English physiologists last mentioned, (passing by the earlier and similar opinions, which never took root, and seem to have been lost), belonged to their time, and chiefly to our country; and that to them, * Dr. Jurin, in his able paper, in the Philosophical Transactions for 1719, on the specific gravity of the blood and its different parts, distinguishes only the red particles and the serum. He was of opinion that the crassamentum is composed " of the globular particles united together by their attractive power." t Haller, in the second volume of his Elementa Physiologiae, published in 1760, at page 42, remarks,—" Solent Medici Galli nupe- riores (Petit Mem. de l'Acad. des Scien. 1732, p. 393; Senac, t. ii. p. 92,) monere, duriora coagula esse, qua? ex sero nascuntur, et serum vi densabili cruorem superare, cum in frigida coeat, dum sanguinis pars rubra conservat." " Verum certum est," he continues, " etiam ex rubro cruore, dura nasci coagula, et quidni nascantur, cum in ea sanguinis parte, et terree et ferri, plurima sit portio." So vague is this great physiologist on the subject. X Marherr, in his admirable " Prselectiones Medicse," published in 1772, probably expressed the doctrines then current, and considered most orthodox, in the continental schools, at least in the North of Europe; he attributes the buffy coat of the blood to a change in the serum. " Augetur vero visciditas ilia seri seepe tantum ut etiam more cruoris protinus coagulatur et ipsum dum sanguis de vena missus coit. Atque turn cruor concretus pellicula alba densa, tenace tegitur, quce ex sero viscidiore nascitur, et crusta? pleuriticae nomine insigni- tur, quoniam," &c, torn. ii. p. 254. The crassamentum, he con- sidered, composed of red particles adhering together; "thus," he says, " coagulum hoc rubrum minui sensim mole et mora temporis in vase serosum liquidum augeri, quod antea in interstitiis coaguli inter- clusum, per moram et quietem magis sese attrahentibus moleculis rubris, ex hisce interstiis exprimitur, dum illee ad se proprius acce- dunt."