OBSERVATIONS ON PUS. It was supposed by Mr. Hunter, who first noticed specially the phenomenon, that it was an instance of coagulation,* an opinion which has been adopted by some recent writers ; thus one, deservedly eminent, (M. Andral) in an article on pus in the Dictionnaire de Medicine, noticing different varieties of purulent fluid, remarks,—" Tous en definitive, paraissent etre composes de globules semblables, nageant dans un fluide, lequel est susceptible de se coaguler, lorsqu' on le mele a une solution de muriate d'ammonique." Dr. Pearson, on the other hand, has denied that it is a coagulation, and supposes it to be an inspissa- tion, "seemingly occasioned," as he says, "by the solution of muriate of ammonia attracting water from the pus."f * Mr. Hunter describes pus as a liquid, " composed of very small round bodies, very much like those small globules which, swimming in a fluid, make cream." He adds, " these globules swim in a fluid, which we should at first suppose to be the serum of the blood, for it coagulates with heat like serum, and most probably is mixed with a small quantity of coagulating lymph; for pus in part coagulates, after having been discharged from the secreting vessels, as mucus is observed to do. But although it is thus far similar to serum, yet it has properties that serum has not. Observing there was a similarity between pus and milk, I tried if the fluid part of pus could be coagu- lated with the juice of the stomach of other animals, but found it could not. I then tried it with several mixtures, principally with the neutral salts, and found that a solution of sal ammoniac coagu- lated this fluid: not finding that a solution of this salt coagulated any other of our natural juices, I concluded that globules, swimming in a fluid that was coagulable by this salt, was to be considered as pus, and would be always formed in sores that had no peculiar back- wardness to heal."—(Treatise on the Blood, &c, in vol. iii. of Works, p. 449. f Philosophical Transactions, for 1810.