478 OBSERVATIONS ON PUS. slightest doubt. But I am not quite free from doubt concerning the inference, viz., that the central granules, or molecules, are composed of a distinct substance. Fibrin is not dissolved by acetic acid ; the spermatic entozoa are not dissolved by it; co- agulated serum is not dissolved by it ;* nor is fatty matter; in brief, its solvent power over animal sub- stances generally is very inconsiderable, as I have briefly mentioned, when treating of the action of distilled vinegar.f I have sometimes imagined that the appearance attributed to central molecules might be owing to particles of air, disengaged by the action of the acid on the minute quantity of carbonated alkali, which there is reason to believe exists in the * Contrary to what Dr. Gueterbock mentions, I have not found the involucrum of the pus-globules dissolved by acetic acid; only rendered more transparent. If, after the action of this acid, an alkali be added to neutralize it, or if a solution of common salt be mixed with it, to change the refractive power of the medium, the in- volucrum is rendered discernible. t Doubt, perhaps, similar to that which I have expressed has oc- curred to Dr. Gueterbock; this I infer, from his remark relative to the composition of pus-globules; that he cannot venture to de- termine, whether they consist entirely, or only in part of fibrin; and also from the notes to this remark, concerning the action of acetic acid;—"Berzelio duce fibrinam sanguinis bovini et albumen ovi calore coagulatum bene abluta acido acetico concentrato super- fudi, ut utrumque intumesceret, at aqua coquente tantum vix utrius- que solutum est, ut solutione kali ferroso-hydrocyanici parcum fieret sedimentum. Miratus, quod Berzelio teste in omnibus libris chemicis adnotatum est, et fibrinam et albumen acido acetico solvi, experi- mentum ssepius repetivi, nonnunquam acido acetico diluto adhibito sed semper idem fuit eventus." He justly adds, " Si haec experimenta probantur, novos in tenebras et confusiones incidimus, et ad novam matericrum illorum simplicium disquisitionem excitamur."