319 TEXTURES OF THE HUMAN BODY. agulum ; nor from long boiling was there any very distinct appearance of contraction. 2. A portion of fibrin of blood, the colouring matter and the serum separated by washing, was plunged into boiling water; it immediately contracted, and apparently very much. The water was kept boiling for 24 hours. The fibrin was not rendered gelatinous ; nor did it appear diaphanous in the slight- est degree. It was not entirely deprived of its elas- ticity ; it was perhaps a little softer; but not distinctly so. Pressed between folds of blotting paper, it was found to be of specific gravity 1067.* 3. A mixture of red particles and serum, after * In another trial, made on a fibrinous mass from the right ven- tricle of the heart, boiled for about twelve hours, its specific gravity- was found to be 1049. Considering the effect, above-described, of a boiling temperature many hours continued on the fibrinous part of the blood, it is very curious that coction or digestion of fibrin at a comparatively low heat, viz. about 99°, should afford a very different result: thus, if the blood-heat coction be continued for 48 hours, without stop, the fibrin is reduced to a semi-fluid state, coarsely resembling pus, and very closely resembling the puriloid matter into which fibrinous concre- tions formed in the heart, or blood-vessels, during life, are in part converted under peculiar circumstances. To Mr. Gulliver I appre- hend belongs the merit of having first observed this peculiar effect of coction at a blood-heat on fibrin, and the analogy between its product and the result of the softening process on fibrin in the living body.1 The analogy, however, it is right to observe, is not altogether perfect. In Mr. Gulliver's experiments on the coction of fibrin, I believe, without any exception, marks of putrefaction were developed in the fibrinous mass, which may conduce to the disintegration of the fibrin, and its reduction to a poultaceous state: farther on, it ' London Medical Gazette, vol. i. New series, p. H74.