195 AFTER DEATH. 8. The single case, in which fibrinous concretion occurred in the heart without crassamentum or cruor, was one of dysentery. 9. The single case in which the blood was ob- quality. I then stated, " these false appearances are in many in- stances so exactly like the true, that I doubted if the most expe- rienced anatomist would be able to distinguish between them:" adding, " that I had made the trial with medical friends by asking their opinion of parts coloured by immersion in blood, and, without the least hesitation they had pronounced the parts strongly in- flamed:" afterwards in Malta, I continued the inquiry, and in 1828, made a series of experiments on the colouring power of blood and bile on the different textures of the body. The principal results were, that the stains of both are with difficulty removed by washing, and from several textures, even by maceration; and that by mere colour it is impossible to distinguish between the post mortem chemi- cal effect, — and the effect, during life, of inflammation. The in- fluence of temperature is of the first importance in relation to the production of bloody serum,—that is, serum holding in solution the colouring matter of the blood. At a temperature between 80° and 100°, the solution will take place in a few hours, and the staining will be produced,—the pseudo-inflammatory appearances will present themselves : on the contrary, at a temperature between 35° and 45°, the blood corpuscles will retain their colouring matter and remain unaltered, and the serum untinged for many days, and so long none of the false appearances of inflammation alluded to will be obser- vable. Another point, of much importance, is the degree of tendency of the body after death to putrify. In some instances, even before death, there appears to be incipient putrefaction of the blood; and, in these cases, bloody serum is detected accompanied with staining of the parts with which it is in contact, though the post mortem ex- amination may be made before the cadaver has had time to become cold. In other instances,—and they may occur at the same time,— the tendency to putrefaction is so very inconsiderable, that no indica- tions of it are perceptible, even after twenty-four hours, and some- times longer; and in these examples there is a corresponding absence of any false appearances of inflammation. o 2