[ 1 APPARATUS FOR TREATING FRACTURE OF THE PATELLA. BY J. S. WIGHT, M.D, Professor of Operative and Clinical Surgery at the Long Island College Hospital, Brooklyn, N. Y. In treating a fracture of the Patella it is desirable to bring and keep the fragments in as close apposition as possible. There are two principal obstacles to attaining this result: (1) A firm blood clot on the broken surface of the fragments—as I have demonstrated by post-mortem examinations; (2) The contraction of the muscles of the quadriceps extensor. Some years ago I devised an apparatus for treating fracture of the patella, and in 1880 1 reported the treatment of three cases by this apparatus. (See No. 1230 Medical and Surgical Repor- ter.) My colleagues and myself have since treated several cases of fracture of the patella by the same apparatus. The essential parts of this apparatus are represented in the accompanying drawing, Fig. 133. First, a single inclined plane is made by firmly joining two pieces of board at a right angle; one is a bed-piece, and the other is an upright-piece, as seen in the diagram. The bed-piece is bevelled where it goes under the thigh. Two quadrangular bars are hinged to the upper end of the bed-piece. These bars are long enough to move up and down on the sides of the upright-piece, and are sustained by a bandage going over a hook on the outside of the upright-piece. A piece of muslin or canvas, is fastened to the movable bars, making a kind of hammock on which to put the injured limb. This can be seen in the drawing. Second. The upper ends of two quadrangular pieces of adhesive plaster are cut into strips and applied obliquely from below upward—in one case inward, in the other case outward—on the dorsum of the thigh, over the quadriceps extensor. The lower ends of these extending straps are properly attached to cords that play over wheels fastened to the sides of the upright piece, and that have weights suspended from their distal ends. A roller bandage, beginning on the upper fragment of the patella, is passed around the thigh upward for a sufficient distance to prevent the extending adhesive straps from coming off on account of the tension of the weights, which may vary from three to six pounds each. Third. The lower fragment of the patella is attached to the tibia by an inextensible tendon, and can be kept in place by means of a small sand-bag resting on it, as in the diagram. When the lower limb is in position, on the single inclined plane, the sand-bag will act on account of the force of gravity. It may be necessary to fasten this sand-bag on by adhesive plaster, in order to prevent it falling off sideways.