TRIG HO PH YTO SIS BA RBAK [ 140 ] the parasitic affection, masking in great measure the features of the latter. This was the case in the second of the patients whose case we have cited. Trichophytosis barbae may, moreover, be associated with trichophytosis elsewhere, as in the third case. Prognosis.—The prognosis of trichophytosis barbae is always good, provided that the physician makes a correct diagnosis, and institutes appropriate measures of treatment. There is no occasion or excuse for the disease to be left unchecked and uncured for months, and even years, as we have known to occur. Treatment.—When left untreated, nature takes care of the affection in the following ways : If the patient be one whose skin reacts but little under irritation, the affection may persist for years, and until the hairs and hair follicles are entirely destroyed. If, on the other hand, there is a prompt reac- tion with profuse production of pus, this latter may initiate the first step toward a cure by destroying the fungus; for, as Bazin pointed out many years ago, pus is a poison to parasites, at least to the para- site of this disease. This had, in all probability, occurred in the second of the cases reported. When, art steps in, she should try to imitate nature’s methods to a certain extent; that is, the parasite is to be destroyed as soon as possible. This may most readily be effected by removing the hairs and applying a parasiticide. Of these the more effective are corrosive sublimate, and the oleate of mercury. In our first and second cases Calx Sulphurata was used internally, and in somewhat different doses; the larger dose being given in the papular less acute (plastic) lesion, and the smaller dose in the more acute pus- tular condition. This is in accordance with the principles we have more fully explained in an article on Calx Sulph. published in the January number of the Journal of Cutaneous and Venereal Diseases. In the third case, the affection had lasted for so short a time, and was so favorably located, that internal treatment Avas unnecessary, the lesion being accompanied with only the slightest evidences of reaction. In special cases various subsidiary measures may be necessary, such as poultices, opening abscesses, etc., which will readily suggest themselves when the occasion arrives.