LARYNGO-TRACHEAL DIPHTHERIA IN AN ADULT. [ 97 ] BY WM. S. CHEESMAN, M. D., Late House Physician, Bellevue Hospital, New York. On the 1st of March, 1882, I was called to see a gentleman aged thirty-two, of great muscular and constitutional vigor. He had been exposed in a storm some few days before, and was suffering from what he supposed to be a severe cold. There was much soreness of the throat and dysphagia, together with a hoarse and stridulous cough, and aphonia. Pressure over the larynx gave pain. The pharynx had no abnormal appearance beyond redness, but the laryngoscope revealed deposits of gray false membrane on the surface of the red, swollen arytenoids, and in the interior of the larynx, cover- ing the vocal cords, and giving them a jagged outline (Fig. 94). Temperature normal; pulse 80. The local tenderness, and the pain caused by coughing were the only matters of complaint; otherwise the patient felt perfectly well. After using inhalations of steam and slaking lime, a piece of tough, leathery false membrane was expectorated, which the microscope showed to be composed of coagulated fibrine in whose meshes were held white and red blood corpuscles. The patient was kept in a warm room, and steamed hourly, flakes of false membrane being loosened and expelled every little while. Fcetor of the breath and a taste compared to that of carrion, were remedied so far as possible by carbolized sprays and gargles of potassic chlorate. The laryngoscope showed a steady amelioration of the local condition, till on the fifth day the larynx looked fairly clear, only a few spots of exudation remaining (Fig. 93). The general health seemed excellent, there being no more depression than might easily be referred to loss of rest consequent on painful cough. This improvement was only temporary, however, for on the sixth day a trace of albumen appeared in the urine, while the membrane re-formed and lined the larynx, creeping around the edges of the epiglottis, which became swollen and red. Deglution and coughing were now most painful and the sputa were tinged with blood. The pain was relieved by a spray of liq. morph, sulph. and atropia. The air of the chamber was kept charged with vapor, and the larynx poulticed. Two pints of urine (specific gravity 1025) continued to be passed daily, though the percentage of albumen rapidly increased, and the miscroscope detected numerous casts, but no blood. Diuretics produced no special effect. The temperature varied from 99^° to 100^°, 101° being its highest register. At no time was there any dyspnoea or head symptoms. The local lesion remained