[ 141 ] CASES or RUPTURE OE THE CHOROID.* BY THOMAS B. POOLEY, M.D, Permanent Member of the Medical Society of the State of Neto York. In my note-book representing ten years of private practice, occur eight cases of rupture of tlie choroid, from which I select the following six: Case 1, Fig. 1.—The patient, a man of German birth, aged thirty-four, consulted me January 12, 1875, on account of failing sight in both eyes, but more especially the right, in regard to which he gave the following history. The spring before, he wTas struck upon it by a missile thrown with great force. He wTas rendered unconscious for a few minutes by the blow, and for some time after could not see. His sight, however, gradually returned to some extent, and then he noticed that objects ap- peared crooked and distorted (metamorphopsia). Soon after the injury, before he consulted me in my office, he was at the Clinic of the Oph- thalmic and Aural Institute, and on his card the diagnosis of atrophy of the optic nerves and hemor- rhage at the macula was written. The right eye was divergent; its vision — ^y. The left, re- fraction emmetropic. He was blind for green and blue colors. Ophthalmoscopic examination of the right, showed the appearance delineated in Fig. 1. A curved or crescentic white streak, located between the optic disc and macula, almost in the exact region of the latter, and with its concavity turned toward the disc, about 1J, D. in length, and j D.f in breadth, at its widest part. Its edges made sharp irregular lines, and both the edges and middle at about the centre were dotted by black pigment. The small vessels of the retina, which are not numer- ous in the macula region, passed in an uninterrupted course over the rent. There wTas not observed, as is often seen, any considerable secondary changes in the choroid. The optic disc in this eye, as well as in the other, showed a moderate amount of atrophy, such as is seen as resulting from the abuse of alcohol and tobacco, to both of which the patient owned up. In this case we have a fair example of the ophthalmoscopic appearances which rupture of the choroid usually presents; a crescentic-shaped white sti’eak on the temporal side of the optic disc. The diagnosis of hemorrhage at the macula made at the time of his visit to the Clinic, was quite excusable. That such extravasations of blood occur immediately after the injury to almost any extent, is well known; and later on I shall report a case in which the diagnosis was masked by such * Read before the Medical Society of the State of New York, February 7th, 1883. f D is to signify a unit in ophthalmoscopic measurement, and equals one diameter of the optic disc.