ABSENCE OF THE UPPER LIP, 1 9 1 THE RESULT OF APPLICATIONS FOR CURE OF ALLEGED CANCER, PLASTIC OPERATIONS. BY ALFRED C. POST, M.D., LL.D., Emeritus Professor of Surgery in, and President of the Faculty of the Medical Department of the University of the City of New York; Visiting Surgeon to the Presbyterian Hospital, N. Y. City, dec., &c. Case.—Chas. Gardiner, Ireland, 65, shoemaker, married, admitted to hospital April 26th, 1880. Family and previous history good. Twenty-six years ago, a small wart appeared on upper lip, a little to right of median line. This remained twenty-two years without increasing in size and without pain. Four years ago, applications were made to it with the intention of destroying it, but they were not effectual. The wart ulcerated and increased in size, involving nearly the whole of the upper lip, and a portion of the right ala nasi; but without giving rise to pain or constitutional disturbance. On March 31st, 1880, he went to a cancer doctress, who applied an escharotic paste which destroyed all the parts involved in the disease. On admission, there was found to be a deficiency of nearly the whole of the upper lip, the deficiency extending from the right cheek just without the angle of the mouth to a point about twelve mm. within the left commissure of the lips. The columna nasi had entirely disappeared, and there was a deep notch at the lower part of the right ala nasi about fifteen mm. in depth. The upper gums were entirely exposed to view. The patient was unable to keep his food between his teeth, and to retain the saliva within his mouth. (See plate I, fig. 1.) May 1st, 1880. The patient having been etherized with the usual precautions, I performed the following operation for the restoration of the lost features. (See fig. 3, 1 and 5.) I commenced by separating from the cheek the small remnant of the left extremity of the upper lip, by an incision extending through its whole breadth and thickness, leaving the flap thus separated, attached at the junction of the nose and cheek. The loose end of this flap and its anterior surface were excised, so as to leave raw surfaces for adhesion in the new position in which they were to be placed. A portion of this integument at the end of the nasal pyramid, and at the lower border of the septum