TRICHOPHYTOSIS BARBAE. [ in ] (Synonyms—Tinea Barbae, Sycosis, Mentagra, Barber’s Itcii.) BY HENRY G. PIFFARD, M.D., Surgeon to Charily Hospital, BlachweTTs Island, etc., Neio York. In former times, and np to the early part of the present century, two, possibly three distinct diseases were included under the names Sycosis or Mentagra. Gruby first threw light on the true nature of one of these by the discovery of its real cause. Later, Bazin studied it more fully, and to him and succeeding writers we owe our present knowledge of its nature and treatment. The affection may be illustrated by the following cases: J. D., forty years old ; had always been in the habit of shaving himself. On one occasion, how- ever, he was obliged to avail himself of the services of a barber. A few days later, he noticed two red pimples in the region of the moustache. These were followed by others on the cheeks, and were accompanied by slight itching. The papules increased in size, and appeared to heal in the centre, until in a short time he found two pretty well defined rings on the left cheek, and three on the right. The rings increased in circumference until they united, forming as it were one large irregular ring on each side of the face. The disease had existed about two months when he came under observation. At this time he presented the appearances shown in the photograph. The eruption consisted of a red- dened, raised, irregular ring on the right cheek, with distinct margin.* On the left side the circle was less uniform, showing more clearly the fact that it was made up of two primary rings. Beside these there were a few scattered papules, and two or three larger tubercles. lie had been subjected to various treatment. I directed that the hairs should be carefully and thoroughly removed with the epilating forceps, and that a solution of corrosive sublimate, two grains to the ounce, should be applied morning and night. Internally he was directed to take a quarter of a grain of Calx Sulpkurata thrice daily. S. C., thirty-three years old, was shaved by a hotel barber in Boston. A few days afterward he noticed the commencement of the trouble. An eruption appeared, accompanied with considerable inflammation and pain. It increased rapidly in extent, quite a number of rings having formed and united. The inflammation was severe, and accompanied with considerable sero-purulent discharge, which matted the unshaven hairs together. The physician under whose care he came, fully appre- ciated the nature and requirements of the case, and advised epilation and the use of parasiticides. On 'x' In the Artotype illustration the photograph is reversed, the eruption appearing upon the left cheek.