ENCHONDR OMA. Traumatic Hemorrhages.—The first severe injury which the tumor received did not result in hemorrhage ; at each subsequent trauma, however, there has been more or less loss of blood. Spontaneous Hemorrhages.—During the last three or four years he has had frequent spontaneous hemorrhages. They occur mostly at night when he is in bed; it is usually more annoying than an active flow. He applies cloths with slight compression, never calls on a physician for assistance, although the wasting sometimes keeps up for several days. During the past few months—the fall and w inter—the loss has been slight, but well-nigh constant. The waste is telling on his health. Before the holidays he resorted to the Good Samaritan Hos- pital for a few days1 rest; absence from his business has been a very unusual occurrence. Ulceration.—The damaged point has remained in a state of chronic inflammation ever since the first hemorrhage. The breach presents no appearance of malignancy ; it has the aspect of an indolent ulcer. The low vitality of the part renders complete repair next to impossible. Growth.—This tumor has had a continuous growth from the initiative. The patient thinks that from year to year he can notice a gradual increase in size. Painless.-—Except when it has been injured, it is absolutely devoid of pain. Blood Supply.—The large venous trunks ridging the surface of the nodules, although compen- satory, indicate a liberal blood supply, and taken in connection with the hypertrophied con- dition of the parts around the shoulder rendering the medium of attachment with the body very large, preclude all possibility of surgical relief, the circumference of the arm at the axilla being 25£ inches. Chondroma, Osteo-Chondroma, Enchondroma, Osteo-sarcoma, Osteo-chondrophyte, are but a part of the terms which have been used to designate cartilaginous growths, hyperplasise which at one period in their development are composed in vThole or in part of cartilage; they are all, to some ex- tent, indefinite. Osteo-sarcoma is appropriate so far as it applies to growths which are partly osseous and partly carneous, but beyond this it is as unsatisfactory as that ancient, that vastly-including cognomen, sar- coma. Ecchondroma by some is applied to those cartilaginous products which spring from the surface of bone, wrhile enchondroma is confined to those which originate in the interior. This large mass is composed of a number of lobules differing in size and consistence, and covered by a dense layer of connective tissue capsule. The surface, normal in color, is made irregular by the passage of large blood-vessels, superficial veins—improvised for maintaining a compensatory circulation. In looking for the genesis of this tumor, we are led to the periosteum; it is that part of the humerus covered by this membrane which has disappeared, the articular extremities remain intact; hence pronation and supination are free, and flexion can be made until arrested by the overhanging mass. The cartilaginous caps upon the ends of the humerus limit the attachment of the periosteum, and limit also the destruction of bone and the formation of this chondroid tissue,—between these points the degeneration is confined. Our knowledge upon this kind of pathological substitution is very meagre indeed, a process by which one tissue is removed, and another formed to occupy its position. L 1^0 ]