CONGENITAL UNION OF THE FINGERS. [ 122 1 The hand is more deformed and useless than before the operation. The first phalanges, which remain, have reunited, and there is now a short, awkward-looking stump between the index and little lingers, which perhaps would be better removed, but the patient says he has had enough of surgery for the present. lie was discharged July 4th. The miserable result of this case was a bitter disappointment to me. The operation, studied in description and diagram, seemed so promising, and the results of mere division in these cases, as illus- trated in the history of this very one, are ordinarily so unsatisfactory, that I had no hesitation or mis- givings in undertaking a proceeding that seemed easy and certain to succeed. But the inextensible nature of the integument, its close connection to the parts beneath, and the impossibility, from the very nature of the case, of making the flaps larger than the surface they are intended to cover, and thus allow for shrinkage, proved to be practical aud fatal obstacles to these flattering anticipations. From the experience gained in this case, I do not think that the operation is one to be recom- mended, and I should never undertake it again. Indeed, I will go further, and say that it should be utterly discarded from surgery, and buried in the limbo of obsolete procedures. Division of the junction merely with rigid attention to the after-dressing, even if it sometimes yields very imperfect results, is far better than running such risks as the entire destruction of the lingers, or even the whole hand. The establishment of a permanent orifice at or just beyond the situation of the normal commissure, previous to division of the bond of union, would no doubt prove a useful procedure. Of course, that commoner class of cases, where there is merely a thin web of skin, are comparatively easy to deal with. But as I intend to treat this whole subject in ex tens o in a future pub- lication, I shall say no more about it for the present. Of the other two eases of which 1 present illus- trations, I have no history whatever to otter. The parties came under my notice quite accidentally. In each case it is the right hand which is malformed, having only two lingers and a thumb. The missing lingers are in each case the index and minimum. In one case the fingers present, middle and ring, are closely united throughout, and the curvature pro- duced by this blending of two fingers of unequal length is well shown ; the patient declined surgical interference, although the usefulness of the hand was much impaired. Tn the other case the fingers are perfectly distinct and well formed, and the hand quite useful. Both of them were laboring men ; the other hands were natural; neither knew of any malformation among their relatives. Fig. 129. As far as I know, such cases as these are very rare.