ILLUSTRATED MEDICINE AND SURGERY. [ 00 ] emptied. The patient also stated that the closure of this opening had been attempted by several surgeons, and that lie had been etherized and operated upon no less than seven times. The exact nature of these operations I was unable to ascertain. Every operation had failed, and, apparently through suppurative action and the undermining of integument, the penis had been brought to the condition represented in Figs. 49 and 50." Fig. 49 represents the penis turned up against the abdomen. The fistula is marked by the letter A. It was three-quarters of an inch in length, and embraced the entire width of the urethra. With the exception of a small portion next to the scrotum, no integument remained on the under surface of the penis. On the left side (looking at the penis from below), was a large loose flap of integument, which hung loosely from the side of the penis, and on the opposite side one could just see the edge of the dorsal skin. The rest of this inferior surface was purely cicatricial. The loose flap of skin is marked B. Fig. 50 represents the dorsal aspect of the penis. Under these conditions it was evident that no attempt to close the fistula by one operation could succeed. I deter- mined that I must first surround the open- ing with healthy integument before I could attempt to close it. This was accomplished on December 7th, with the assistance of Doctors Geo. A. Peters and Thomas T. Sabine, and in the presence of others. Having first opened the urethra in the perinseum, in order to provide against the passage of urine over the seat of operation, I removed a thin layer from the entire cicatricial surface shown in Plate 49, including also the inner surface of the loose flap of skin. The under surface of the penis was thus rendered completely raw, nearly back to the scrotum. The loose flap was easily brought to the edge of the fistula, and carefully stitched to that edge. I then cut a large square flap of skin from the left side and dorsum of the penis, and twisted it so as to bring it to the left edge of the fistula, where it was also stitched in place. These flaps were also stitched to one another above and below the fistula, and also to the base of the glans penis. The fistula was left, of course, as large as before, but was surrounded with healthy integument. The condition after this operation is shown in Fig. 51. C, the fistulous opening; B,the loose flap stitched * For the original drawings of this case, and also for great care during its treatment, I am much indebted to Doctor Eobert Abbe, who was then House Surgeon at St. Luke’s Hospital. Fig. 51.