ILLUSTRATED MEDICINE AND SURGERY. [ 10 3 nasi were also excised, to produce raw surfaces corresponding with those of the labial flap. This flap was then drawn upward and to the right, and attached by sutures to the denuded surface of the nose, so as to form a new columna, the mucous membrane looking downward, and the denuded cutaneous surface looking upward. The position of the new columna was necessarily oblique, it being my intention to remove the obliquity by a subsequent operation, if it should be found necessary. The jagged edge of the parts at the junction of the right cheek with the lip was then excised so as to leave an even margin, and a flap was made from the left cheek, included between two incisions, of which the lower extended outward and a little downward from the angle of the mouth, and the upper, outward and a little upward from the junction of the ala nasi with the cheek, the flap thus formed being a little larger in all its dimensions than the left half of the space to be occupied by the new upper lip. From the outer extremity of this flap, two incis- ions were made in the arcs of circles -whose concavities looked toward the mouth, including between them a curved pedicle for the flap, about half the width of the flap itself. A correspond- ing flap with, a curved pedicle was cut from the right cheek, the flap being made sufficiently wide, not only to supply the right half of the upper lip, but to afford a patch to fill up the notch at the lower extremity of the right ala nasi. A horizon- tal incision was made twenty-two mm. in length, separating the portion of the flap designed for the reparation of the ala nasi from that which was intended for the completion of the upper lip. A thin strip was removed from the margin of the notch at the lower edge of the ala nasi, for the reception of the flap. The two flaps designed for the formation of the upper lip were then brought together in the median line, and joined by three pin sutures, and the remaining edges of the wound were united by numerous fine