FIBROUS TUMORS OF THE FACE. [ 17 1 P.Y WILLARD PARKER, M.D., Professor of Clinical Surgery, College of Physicians and Surgeons, N. Y. ; Consulting Surgeon to the New York, Bellevue, St. Luke's, Mt. Sinai and Roosevelt Hospitals, &c., &c. The accompanying plate II. (Fig. 6, 7, 8) represents the following: Case. In February, 1863, I. I., aged 60, a mechanic from Cortlandt, Westchester Co., N. Y., called at my office to consult me in relation to a tumor on the face. lie was of industrious and regular habits, of a healthy family, and gave the following history. Thirty years ago he first observed a swelling, the size of a pea, situated a little in front of the ramus of the jaw, below the zygoma. During the subsequent twenty years it grew slowly, attaining the size of a hen’s egg—there was nc pain or tenderness. Within the past ten years the growth has been more rapid, it having more than doubled in size during the past five years. It now measures at its base eighteen inches; at its greatest circumference, twenty-two inches. It is attached from the malar bone above, to a point upon the neck two inches below the thyroid cartilage, and, in front, from the angle of the month to two inches below the thyroid cartilage. It projects from the face some six inches, its vertical diameter being about eight. It is freely movable, and its surface is covered with nodules varying in size. The whiskers cover its posterior surface. He was admitted into St. Luke’s Hospital, where I was consulting surgeon, and a consultation was called. The decision being to remove the mass, the patient readily assented and the operation was performed on February 27th. An incision was made around the base of the tumor, which was readily dissected out from its attachments. The muscles of the neck and jaw were not interfered with, and no large vessels were encountered, though there was tolerably profuse hemorrhage from a number of smaller vessels. Some difficulty was experienced in bringing together the edges of the wound. The wound healed readily, largely by first intention, the patient leaving the hospital at the end of a month with complete cicatri- zation and but little deformity.