SKIN-GRAFTING IN THE TREATMENT OF A BURN. [ 55 ] do -when the grafting is begun at the centre. It is not necessary to retain the grafts with plaster, as was first done; but cover them simply with lint, over which enough cerate has been spread to prevent adhesion. Retain this dressing in place with a bandage to prevent displacement for twenty-four hours, when it may be carefully removed, after thoroughly moistening it, so as not to detach the grafts. At the second dressing they will be firmly adherent. That the best arrangement of the new tissue is the one suggested, I have proved by taking one hundred grafts of different sizes from the same limb, placing them on the ulcer in squares—solid and hollow—circles, rings, rectangles, etc., and at different distances from the edge. With a healthy granulating surface, and grafts carefully applied, without blood or pus beneath them, nine in ten should “ take.'’ 4. Growth.—At the end of about twenty-four hours, the edges of the new tissue are bent down and adhere to the granulations beneath, while the centre is elevated. Within forty-eight hours the dead cuticle begins to separate and may soon be removed; but the deeper part of the graft is attached and its edges appear more and more sunken, until, at the end of the third, or fourth day, a depressed ring seems to surround it. This is darker than the granulations, about half a centimeter wide, and is really produced by the increased growth of the adjacent granulations. The graft has now nearly disappeared, or become transparent; if the depressed ring remains it has certainly “ taken ” ; and will soon reappear as a spot of delicate cicatricial tissue, increasing in circumference as the dark ring enlarges. Its progress is first rapid; then becomes gradually slower, until it stops, as in ordinary cicatrization ; but if a new graft is placed near by, its growth begins again. This growth is also most rapid in the direction of the edge of the ulcer, or an adjacent graft, both of which project to meet it, thus shutting off islands of granulations. 5. Microscopic appearance.—I have not examined the growing grafts with the microscope ; but Reverdm* has given the best description I can find. The sections were hardened in chromic acid, and colored with either carmine or ammonium picro-carminate. He saw the outer cells or cuticle separate in about 48 hours, and his sections, moreover, show that from the edge of the remaining graft-tissue a layer of epiderrnisf grows out over the ulcer, while another passes around the edge and under the graft. It is this last layer, he believes, which unites the graft to the ulcer by means of prolongations upwards into the graft and downwards into the ulcer. By the sixth day, this layer gives off large and small shoots, which penetrate the granulations, and have epidermic nests at their lower extremities (globes epidermiques). The layer which passes over the the surface of the sore terminates in a fan of smooth, spheroidal cells, with large nuclei. At the end of a week vessels connected with those of the ulcer appear in the graft, which, in turn disappearing, is replaced by tissue resembling granulation tissue. It has returned to an embryonic state. Reverdin believes, 1st. That the graft adheres by a layer of epidermis which passes under it; and, 2nd. That this epidermis acts by contact, exciting the embryonic surface to become epidermis. 6. Nature of the cicatrix.—It is a question whether, by this process, we have anything more than simple cicatricial tissue; for the sweat bulbs and hair follicles in the original graft disappear in the cicatrix. I have carefully looked for hairs, after taking pains to transplant them, but never succeeded in making them grow. To cover the whole of a large wound with cicatricial tissue is a * In his essay cited above, G-az. Hebdom., Jan. 1870. t See wood-cut illustration.