ILLUSTRATED MEDICINE AND SURGERY. t 98 ] throughout confined to the larynx and upper part of the trachea. Inspection of the pharynx alone could have afforded no information whatever. Improvement began again about the end of the second week. The temperature fell to 98^°, the albuminuria diminished, the throat became less painful, the exudation was easily loosened and expect- orated, and the appetite gradually returned. The laryngoscope showed a corresponding change for the better in the larynx, which, though swollen, was now free from exudation. The patient gained ground daily. By the end of the month all traces of nephritis had disap- peared. Aphonia remained, the larynx appearing normal except that the arytenoids were still a little swollen, and the vocal cords red, pitted and scarred by the ulceration which they had undergone. The voice was regained gradually, but has never completely recovered its normal flexibility. Early in May the patient began to complain of tingling and numbness in the extremities and a considerable loss of power in the limbs, especially the lower. This parsesthesia and paresis increased till it became impossible for the patient to feel the reins when driving, or any object for which he might search his pockets ; he had great difficulty in mounting stairs, and had to be assisted at his toilet. Yet he appeared in rugged health, and his weight had increased. These troubles have now left him, and the only traces of his disease discoverable are a chronic laryngitis, a few depressed scars on the vocal cords (Fig. 96), and a little huskiness of the voice, observed only occasionally. None of the attendants have suffered by contagion. This case seems to me interesting because of the site at which the disease found local expression. It was throughout limited to the larynx and trachea, an occurrence certainly very uncommon. More- over, its close clinical resemblance to what is termed membranous croup made the question of diagnosis for some little time a difficult one, though quarantine measures were enforced as if it had been un- doubtedly diphtheria. The occurrence of albuminuria on the sixth day settled the question in my mind, and the sequelae have made assurance doubly sure. Yet had the patient happened to die of asphyxia before the sixth day, I know cf no feature of his disease which could have been cited as dif- ferentiating it from the membranous croup of childhood. There was no special depression, no swelling of cervical glands, no spreading by contagion. It seemed a purely local affair. And I could not but to ask myself: Supposing this were a young child, rebellious to treatment, lacking strength and skill to clear the air passages of this exudative material whose accumulation must speedly clog his small larynx and trachea, could I diagnosticate this disease from membranous croup, so called, or hope for any result other than the one so terribly familiar ? Remembering the early death of patients with true croup, perhaps before systemic poisoning, if there were any, could indicate itself by albuminuria and how some cases of that disease seem to be acquired by one child from another through contagion it was a natural, though perhaps hasty outcome from the confusion of facts and theories, to adopt a conclusion of little theoretical importance, perhaps, but possessing considerable practical consequence, viz.: that membranous croup and laryngo-tracheal diphtheria may be indistinguishable, and that therefore all such cases should alike be quarantined.