PLASTIC OPERATIONS ON TUB FACE. [ 154 ] extremities of these two vertical incisions, curved incisions with their concavities looking backward and upward were made to the extent of 5 cm., including between them the peduncle of skin and sub- jacent tissues for the nourishment of the extensive flap. In the course of these incisions the angular, labial, and transverse facial arteries were divided and secured by ligatures. The flap included between the incisions was dissected up from the subjacent parts, so that its upper extremity could be drawn without tension to meet the inci- sion immediately below the lower lid. The parts were then freely washed with a solution of carbolic acid 1 to 40. Before attaching the flap by sutures in its new sit- uation, the ligatures were jerked off from the ends of the divided vessels, and there Avas no hemor- rhage at the time of their re- moval. The flap Avas then at- tached by numerous line silk sutures throughout its Avliole cir- cumference, beginning at the up- per extremity by which it Avas connected with the lowfer lid, and continuing down to the sides of the peduncle. No undue tension was found at any point of the margin of the flap. The length of the anterior margin of the flap in a vertical line was 11 cm.; the breadth of the upper margin of the flap was 55 mm. Fig. 148 exhibits the quadri- lateral chasm made by the excision of the tumor and the outlines of the flap Avith a curved peduncle designed to fill the vacant space. Fig. 149 shoAvs the flap secured by sutures in its new situation. 8 r.M.—The patient has recovered from the ether. There has been a free hemorrhage under the flap, distending the cheek and the side of the neck to such an extent that several of the sutures have given Avay, and there is oozing of blood from the open portion of the flap. The house-surgeon made an attempt to arrest the hemorrhage by cold applications, but without success. He then opened the Avound, turned out the clots, and secured the bleeding vessels by ligature. The wound was then again washed with carbolic acid, 1 to 40, and Avas closed as before, by fine sutures, a small drainage- tube being inserted at the most dependent part.