ILLUSTRATED MEDICINE AND SURGERY. Fallopii. A ridge on the specimen corresponds to the anterior ridge of the groove on the superior border of the bone located beneath the superior petrosal sinus. The reticulated arrangement in the cavity of the specimen has the general arrangement of the reticul® of the antrum mastoideum ; besides which, the relations of the compact and cancellous tissues are such as to exclude its having been located elsewhere. The superior surface of the sequestrum, where it came in contact with the dura mater, was roughened by caries. After the removal of the sequestrum, another large polypoid mass was taken away from the ear, leaving a very large cavity at the junction of the canal and the posterior wall of the tympanum. At the bottom of this cavity was a mass of granulation tissue, which, under the use of powdered acidum boracicum, soon disappeared, and the discharge ceased. The facial nerve, when tested by Dr. McBride, did not respond to either galvanism or faradism, although at first the muscles of the face gave degenerative reaction. In this case, the facial nerve was undoubtedly impaired before the chorda tympani was given off, for there was very decided modification of the sense of taste on the right side of the tongue. The palate was unaffected. The palsy has been treated by the galvanic current, but with slight improvement. Hearing was not entirely lost. The patient is at present free of vertigo and tinnitus aurium, but has occasional headaches, owing to a rather broken-down condition, and the continuance of oral and naso-pharyngeal irritation. Case II. Bilateral facial paralysis occurring in a case of sudden deafness from syphilis:—see Plate IV., two lower figures: the patient in repose, and the same patient endeavoring to close the mouth and eyes. This patient was a man 40 years of age, who contracted syphilis in the summer of 1879, and was treated in Charity Hospital. Three months later, having taken a severe cold, he had paralysis of the right side of the face. Three months after this attack—and six months subsequent to the syphili- tic infection, he was again very much exposed in a cold rain-storm, and went to bed with a severe cold ; on getting up the following morning he experienced so much vertigo that he could only walk with difficulty. While eating his breakfast, he found that he could open his month only wide enough to admit a spoon between his teeth. A facial paralysis of the left side had now occurred, and the inability to get food into the mouth was owing, doubtlessly, to the unique employment of the unaffected muscles used in mastication. The patient at this time experienced severe pains in the right side of the head. Soon after the experience above related, as taking place at breakfast, while trying to converse with a friend, he found himself to be perfectly deaf in both ears, since which time he has been unable to hear a single word, however loudly spoken. The patient was not conscious of any deafness following the first attack of paralysis on the right side. When the patient first experienced difficulty in opening the mouth, he fancied that he had “lock-jaw,” and he then ascertained that instead of the face being drawn to the left, both sides were now alike. Following both these paralytic invasions he experienced distressing tinnitus aurium, which continued up to the time he was seen—some eighteen months after the initial attack. He also suffered greatly from pains in the head and vertigo until a short time before I saw him. lie could not, of course, either whisper or whistle. No treatment was attempted. [ 28 ] \