SECONDARY MYELOID DISEASE OF PLEURA AND LUNG. [ m ] BY WILLIAM OSLEE, M.D., M.R.C.P., Professor of the Institute of Medicine, McGill University; Pathologist to the General Hospital, Montreal. The following case is of interest from the extensive secondary affection of the lung and pleura. My colleague, Dr. George Ross, has kindly furnished the clinical report: B. M., set. 15, came under my care during the month of October, 1S80. He was then complain- ing of shortness of breath, and had a rather troublesome cough. In the month of March previously he had been admitted into the General Hospital, under Dr. Roddick, for a large swelling at the left knee. This was diagnosticated as myeloid tumor, and the limb was amputated in the middle of the thigh. Subsequent examination proved that such was the nature of the growth. Whilst he had been under the care of the surgeons he had not complained of any chest symptoms, and the physical examination of these regions was entirely negative. On admission it was found that the degree of dyspnoea was considerable. He was propped up with pillows and became distressed if his head was lowered. IIis cough was particularly annoying at night and prevented him from sleeping. There was a small quantity of muco-purulent expectoration, lie suffered no pain. The chest seemed wanting in expansive movement. The percussion was absolutely flat from the left clavicle downwards till past the cardiac area, and laterally to the edge of the axilla. The sternal and right infra-clavicular regions were also flat. Ho chest-sounds were to he heard over this area, and the vocal fremitus was absent. The heart-sounds were also much obscured. The diagnosis was a secondary tumor within the thorax, and it was thought probable that some pericardial effusion co-existed with it. From this time the dyspnoea became progressively greater until it reached a most intense degree, and severe suffocative attacks ensued, and in one of these he died in January, 1881. Ho other symptoms or signs of intrathoracic pressure were observed, with one special exception, viz., enlargement of the veins of the front of the thorax. When first seen these were faintly traceable under the skin. They soon began to dilate, and for some time before his death some of them stood out as great tortuous, varicose vessels, as large as the little finger.