ILLUSTRATED MEDICINE AND SURGERY. L n J embraced the angle of the mouth, and whose apex corresponded with the point indicated by the third pin inserted into the cheek. Introducing the index linger of my ieft hand into the buccal cavity as a guide, I inserted the point of a Beer’s cataract knife, at the point indicated by the first pin, into the cavity of the month, and made an incision to the point indicated by the third pin. I made another incision in the same manner from the third to the second pin, and thus separated the triangular flap from all its connections except around the angle of the mouth. From the point indicated by the first pin, I made another incision vertically upward to an extent corresponding with the space be- tween the first and third pins. This incision was earned to the periosteum, and from the tension of the parts involved, the edges receded so as to make a triangular chasm, adapted to the reception of the triangular flap. The flap was then turned edgewise until its apex was received into the apex of the triangular chasm, where it was firmly secured by a pin suture. The flap thus transplanted carried with it a considerable portion of the vermillion border of the lower lip, so as to bring it into line with the vermillion border of the upper lip. The flap was then secured by fine sutures to the edges of the triangular chasm, the outer line of the triangle being nearly vertical, while the inner line passed obliquely inward and downward toward the columna nasi. The edges of the chasm, from which the flap had been cut, were brought together with one pin suture and a num- ber of fine silk sutures, the line of union extending from the outer side of the base of the flap in a direction downward and outward. When the wounds were all closed, it was found that the superfluity of the lower lip was entirely overcome, while there was ample material provided for the reconstruction of the upper lip. The flap which had been transplanted appeared more prominent than the surrounding parts, making the right side of the lip thicker than the left, which was the reverse of its previous condition.