INTELLECTUAL MONOMANIA, WITH MENTAL DEPRESSION. [ 134 ] servants had entered into a conspiracy to burn the house and her with it. Although she never had any hallucination of seeing the persons from whom the voices were supposed to come, she was quite sure that they came from real individuals concealed in various parts of the house or under the steps of the houses she passed in the street. Night and day while awake she heard the voices. Finallv, the continuity of the hallucinations ceased, but the delusion remained, and she was constantly watching her servants, frequently changing them, and invoking the aid of the police in order to insure her safety. * But if at any time she heard a very loud noise, such as the rumbling of a heavy wagon in the street or the explosion of a blast, the hallucinations at once returned. The foregoing description is perhaps sufficient to point out some of the chief features of intel- lectual monomania with mental depression so far as they are connected with the delusions of persecution which are often present. In the next place I desire to present to the'society the history of a case of universal interest, in which such delusions existed. On October 10th of the present year, a man dressed in ragged and paint-soiled clothes walked with a quick, nervous, and uncertain gait along the south side of Fourteenth Street, between University Place and Fifth Avenue. Flis unkempt and disorderly appearance attracted attention, and as he hurried on, his head bent upon his chest and his eyes staring wildly from under a slouched hat at the passers by, many avoided him, instinctively forming the idea that he was contemplating mischief. The street wTas crowded, mostly with women, but the man pushed the people aside, at the same time muttering some unintelligible words, and assuming an angry expression. Suddenly he drew from the breast pocket of his coat a pair of sharp-pointed compasses such as are used by carpenters, and began to strike right and left at the people around him. In a few seconds he had struck and wounded three women who were near him. The rest scattered in all directions, the man pursuing some and striking at them with his murderous weapon. Three other women were wounded, and then the man was seized by several men, and a policeman coming up, he was disarmed and taken into custody. It wTas then ascertained that he was a Frenchman, named Ernest Dubourque. All the women recovered except one, who died of secondary haemorrhage several days after the infliction of the wound. When questioned relative to his reasons for his murderous conduct he either gave unintelligible answers or refused to reply, alleging that he did not understand English. He frequently rubbed his head with his hand and complained of pain. It was then recollected that for several years past the man and his father had been perambulating Broadway carrying signs on their backs stating that they had been defrauded out of a large fortune by the United States government, and demanding the restitution of the money of which they alleged they had been robbed. The only ground for this conduct were the facts that a brother of the old man had some twenty years ago died in California, and it was supposed he had left a great deal of gold behind him. The father and son never, however, took any pains to ascertain the truth or falsity of the report, but contented themselves with charging the government with having appropriated their legacy to its own uses. During all this time they were regarded as harmless lunatics. Less than a year ago the old man died, and then the son was compelled to walk alone. Occasionally he did a little work as a painter, and appears to have suffered at times from lead colic. He continued to talk of his grievances and told improbable stories of his acquaintance with great men in France, and his intimacy with the nobility. A few months since, wdiile painting a