HIP-DISEASE IN THE THIRD STAGE. [ 49 ] the entire treatment, was out of doors every day, walking with the aid solely of the ischiatic support furnished by the perineal straps of the hip-splint. There were occasions when, for several days together, it was impossible for the child to take her customary exercise on account of pain. At such times febrile reaction and emaciation threatened a fatal termination of the case by exhaustion, and these periods coincided with the development of new abscesses and sinuses. The most serious and prolonged relapse occurred when, from the death of the patient’s mother, it became necessary, for a time, to entrust the mechanical treatment to the child’s friends. Notwithstanding these complica- tions, the discharge slowly diminished, the sinuses gradually closed, some degree of motion was restored in the joint, and the re-establishment of the patient’s health showed that recovery was assured. Mechanical treatment was continued for two years and seven months. During the first half of that time strong traction was \ised, but during the latter half of the time, when it became apparent that fixation by the splint was no longer required, the apparatus was applied more loosely, and for several months it was worn only in the daytime, as an ischiatic crutch, to protect the new tissues of the affected part from pressure in standing, and concussion in locomotion. The patient’s present condition, eight months after the final removal of the splint, is well shown in the cuts, Figs. 40 and 41. The cicatrices are numbered in the order in which the sinuses appeared. Nos. 4 and 5 are attached to bone. The other scars are deeply depressed and attached to the fasciae. Her health is perfect and she is able to walk and run without assistance of any kind. The position of the femur is favorable both for walking and sitting, there being no abduction or adduction, but a mod- erate degree of flexion, and the shortening is only one-fourth of an inch, evidently due to a diminution in all the measurements of the limb. The outlines of the feet are seen in Fig. 42. When she walks slowly it is difficult to perceive any limping, although the motions of the joint itself are so slight as to be of very little, if any advantage in locomotion. Fast walking and running develop a slight limp, but not enough to prevent her from participating in all the pastimes of her time of life. Case III.—The family history of this case is remarkably free from evidences of scrofula. This boy, when first examined, was seven years old and had suffered from disease of the right hip for four years. The patient’s father, a surgical instrument maker, possessed unusual skill in the adaptation of apparatus, and hence the mechanical part of the treatment had not been neglected. The boy was provided with a long hip-splint which would have been serviceable had it not been constructed of such light materials that even a moderate degree of traction at the joint was impossible. At every step the instrument allowed the weight of the body to rest on the diseased joint. The usual signs of the third stage of hip-disease were present. Several weeks of severe pain had indicated the formation of an abscess, already recognizable by swelling, redness and heat on the inner surface of the thigh. Mechan- ical treatment was resorted to as soon as practicable in the same manner as in case I., which produced some relief from pain and a general improvement in the position of the limb. Suppuration progressed, however, until the hip and the upper part of the thigh were greatly distended and the pus was evacu- ated by incision or spontaneously, when four sinuses were established in the positions and in the order indicated in the cuts, Figs. 43 and 44, which presented the tumid and everted edges characteristic of sinuses leading to dead bone. The severity and persistence of the symptoms, the number and positions of the sinuses, the long continuance and often offensive nature of the discharge, and the character of