A RARE FORM OF CORNEAL OPACITY. patches of opacity, just beginning near the corneal margin of both sides. This eye was in other respects normal, and vision good. I proposed to the patient an iridectomy on the left eye, which would certainly have very much improved his vision, but he declined all treatment, and I never saw anything further of the case. The above Case is quite a typical one, and illustrates very well the usual course of the disease. It seems quite evident to me that the disease should not be considered as an inflammatory one, and hence I would not speak of it as a keratitis. On the whole, I prefer the name suggested by Nettle- ship. The opacity may begin either as a single patch of opacity in the centre or at the sides of the cornea, or as in my case, as a patch at both sides, which gradually coalesce. The form in which it begins in the centre and grows towards the margin is rarer. The opacity is beneath the epithelium, which remains smooth, shows the usual bright reflex, and ulceration is never present. The course of the opaque band is not exactly transverse, but always slopes a little from within outwards and downwards, and the uncovered parts of the cornea are sharply defined. Nettleship says that the majority of cases remain free from complication for many years. But in all of the cases which I can remember seeing, three in number, complications of some sort existed. In the one now reported, the posterior synechia shows that iritis was present at some time. In one other case, which I saw some years since in the New T ork Ophthalmic and Aural Institute, there was chro lie glaucoma in both eyes, with great increase of tension of the eye-ball. In the other, a girl of twenty, whom I saw in 1878 at the Columbus Blind Asylum—by the way, the youngest subject in which I have seen the disease, and younger than any of the cases analysed by Nettleship, the youngest being twenty-five—the second eye was lost by cyclitis. A case has, however, recently been reported by Lewkowitsch, in the Ivlinische Monatsblatter fur Augenheilkunde, vol. xix., p. 250, of ribbon-skaped keratitis in an eye with a large and immovable pupil without any other abnormality. The other eye was normal. The writer speaks of the case as unusual because of the absence of other abnormalities. Although the disease usually begins first on one cornea, it always becomes symmetrical in the end. Facts as to this statement are given by Nettleship in his cases. As to the character of the opacity scrapings removed from the cornea and submitted to microscopical examinations have been found to consist of phosphate and carbonate of lime. Both Mr. Dixon* and Mr. Bowmanf succeeded in greatly improving sight by the removal of the opacity in this tvay from the centre of the cornea. The pain felt by the patient during the operation proved the fact that the epithelium was not destroyed by the disease. This plan of treatment, the solution of the deposit by some chemical substance, and the operation of iridectomy, embrace the various methods of treatment which have been suggested. I confess my preference for the last-named plan, and would especially use it as the best when either synechise from iritis or glaucoma exists as a complication, because of the well-known benefit which the operation is known to have in such cases. Nettleship gives a careful analysis of the cases upon which his paper is based with reference to theh aetiology. But it seems to the writer, even from the analysis which he gives of the facts as to the constitutional state and morbid tendencies, his view that the affection is closely allied to gout is hardly carried out. Of the twenty-two cases most proved to be in good health, when seen, four were said to * See Dixon’s Diseases of the Eye. t Bowman on the Parts concerned in the Operation on the Eye.