ILLUSTRATED MEDICINE AND SURGERY. [ 24 ] the boy recovered with a straight leg, but with complete anchylosis of the knee joint and short- ening of the limb three-quarters of an inch. The lower epiphysis of the femur does not become united to the shaft until the twentieth year. So that at any period under twenty it is possible that this form of injury may occur. In several cases that have been reported, the accident happened in the same way, the leg being caught in the spokes of a wheel while in motion. This, like the separation of epiphyses of other bones, rarely, if ever takes place without a chipping off of a small portion of the shaft. In some cases there is a partial separation of the epiphysis with a fracture of the adjacent portion of the shaft, leaving a large portion of the latter attached to the condyle. In the museum of St. George's Hospital, London, there are two specimens of this last variety, in one of which the lower fragment is in two pieces.* In cases where the injury is not compound, displacement of the upper fragment, downwards and backwards, may be so great that the nerves and vessels may be stretched over its edges. In one case, under Dr. Me Burney’s care, at St. Luke's Hospital, the internal popliteal nerve was so stretched, the pain so intense, and the deformity so great that amputation was resorted to. The case was of two or three months’ standing, and strong bony union had taken place. The patient died of tetanus. In this case, and in my own, as well as in the case reported by Dr. Hamilton, the periosteum was completely stripped from the end of the shaft. Jonathan Hutchinson says: ‘‘This is, I believe, invariable in cases of detachment of an epiphysis with displacement.” The periosteum is always left its a sleeve in connection with the epiphysis and the shaft is denuded.f In Dr. McBurney’s case, although it was not compound, and union had taken place before amputation, yet the lower end of the shaft was found to be bare of periosteum. The vitality of the bone was not interfered with by this loss. In this case, as well as in two cases described by Hutchinson, the epiphysis was drawn into the flexed position by the action of the gastrocnemius muscle. This condition seems to be difficult of rectification, and coaptation of the fragments can only be maintained by placing the limb in the posi- tion of extreme flexion. The results of this injury when compound are unfavorable. Secondary amputation has been frequently resorted to in consequence of the profuse suppuration and difficulty of keeping the fragment in position. * Surgical Treatment of the Diseases of Infancy and Childhood. By T. Holmes, 18G9. Page 25‘J. t Illustrations of Clinical Surgery. Vol. II. Page I.