HIP-DISEASE IN THE THIRD STAGE. [ 51 ] When walking slowly there is no perceptible defect in gait. The limp which is developed in rapid movement does not prevent him from walking and running with great speed. lie never uses a cane. There is half an inch shortening. The position of the limb is good, there being a moderate degree of flexion, enough to facilitate sitting, but not sufficient to interfere with locomotion. There is neither abduction nor adduction of the femur. Motion at the joint is practically abolished, so that his remark- able power of locomotion is due to vicarious mobility of the lumbar region of the spine, and the unaffected hip-joint. The dimensions of the affected limb fall below those of its fellow, as is seen by the outlines of the feet (Fig. 45), and in the fact that there is a difference of one-fourth of an inch in the transverse measurements of the patellae. In reviewing these cases it is evident that the favorable results cannot be attributed to the superficial or trivial character of the lesions. They were cases in which the principal indications for exsection were present. In one of them exsection was advised by one whose name is prominent in the history of this operation. Dr. Oheever, in the midst of the performance of what has been termed “the majestic and sanguinary hip-joint operation” (Medical and Surgical Reporter, Philadelphia, June 18, 1864, p. 383), remarked: “In this, as in every similar case, when you get into the joint you are surprised to see the amount of disease which did not appear externally” (Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, Aug. 22, 1878, p. 234). It may be inferred, therefore, that in the cases related, in which the external signs of disease lacked no element of severity, the lesions were destructive, invading the hard and soft parts of the joint, and were sufficiently serious to justify and even demand a resort to the most heroic measures. Operative procedure, however, gave place to mechanical treatment in accordance with views of pathology which may be stated briefly in these terms : the affection is not malignant, and is not seated in a vital organ. Sir Benjamin Brodie exclaimed: “Why should the disease be dangerous? The hip-joint is not a vital organ” (Clinical Lectures on Surgery, 1846, pp. 279, 280). Its activity depends largely on the motion of the part, and the pressure and concussion incident to its use in locomotion. This view and a reliance on the reparative power of Nature determined the adop- tion of a plan of treatment described above, which secured relief from acute pain, and which was followed not only by recovery, but by a degree of usefulness in the affected limb far beyond the usual results of exsection. It has been claimed that exsection relieves the patient at once from the pain of progressive hip disease in the third stage. Mr. Hancock, in his elaborate argument for exsection, draws the following- picture of a case of hip disease : “ Look at a patient wasted to a shadow, confined to his bed, not for months only, but for five years, in constant pain and in the last stage of exhaustion from long-continued discharge, his hands employed night and day incessantly maintaining a fixed position of the limb, and endeavoring to prevent the intense agony which occurs on the slightest movement. Often have I seen the poor liip-joint patient, when all others have slept, still wakeful and anxiously engrossed with the one and monotonous task of steadying the knee and preventing movement. Look again at this patient when the operation is performed; his position now is no longer one of constraint and torture, it is one of comparative comfort and rest. He no longer suffers the extreme pain, he no longer exists in dread of the slightest movement or jar, his countenance loses its drawn and anxious appearance, the hectic subsides, and whatever may be the ultimate result, we at all events have the satisfaction of feeling that by the operation we have alleviated a very vast amount of suffering, almost beyond the power of