[ 129 ] EN CHONDROMA. BY W. W. DAWSON, M.D., Professor of Surgery, Medical College of Ohio, Surgeon to Hospital of the Good Samaritan, Cincinnati, Ohio. J. D. H., aged 32, the subject of this tumor, has a fair family history: his parents died in mid- life; father, of pneumonia; mother, of some obscure affection called “ liver trouble.” He has one sister living, at 25, in robust health; lost four during infancy and childhood. His general health has been good, the tumor giving him more inconvenience than pain. The early history of this tumor is indefinite; he learned from his mother that on one occasion, when he was about nine months old, he cried on being lifted by the left arm, and that from that time on, a gradual development was noticed; previously, he had been a healthy, plump baby. He says, “I first remember it when it was about the size of a baby’s head, it was somewhat egg-shaped, and pain- less ; I played with other children, and was only inconvenienced by its size. Once, when a little boy, I hurt it, and was laid up for several months.” He has been selling newspapers at the wharf for twenty-one years, ever since he was eleven years old, interrupted only by a couple of trips to Hew Orleans, on a steamer, as “deck-sweeper.” He bears exposure well, especially over the tumor he wears light covering. Weight is 135 lbs., height 5 ft. 7 in., measures around the chest 31 inches, waist 28|- inches. On the affected side the hand is muscular, and he has considerable strength in the arm; with it he can pull, but he cannot lift. The dynamometer shows, right hand 85, left 48. The left arm is about one-half inch shorter than the right, and nearly an inch less in circumference. Size of Tumor.—Circumference at most prominent part 381- inches; greatest length—from above downwards, 30-j- inches. Shape.—As will be seen by the illustrations, the tumor is conglobate, the lobes being irregular in size and outline. Yiewed from the rear, four great divisions appear; these are again subdivided into smaller ones. Upon the anterior aspect the lines are not so deeply cut. There is a kind of ridge on the summit, and at the extreme point of this is situated the most symmetrical lobe; this is the seat of traumatic ulceration. Consistence.—The larger divisions are dense, though elastic. They impart the impression of thick walled, tensely tilled cysts. The smaller nodes are more compressible, and give an impres- sion of fluid beneath a dense covering.