[ 159 ] SARCOMA OF THE ANTERIOR MEDIASTINUM. BY CHARLES F. BEVAN, M.D, Professor of Anatomy and Genito- Urinary Surgery, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Baltimore, Md. Case.—W. IT., female, aged (19) nineteen, a native of Bremen, came to this country about six (6) years ago, and was at that time in robust, vigorous health. The affection which ultimately produced death, was of about three years’ duration. At the timelier first symptoms appeared she was engaged in school teaching in Washington, D. C. She first noticed a short, dry cough, void of expectoration, to- gether with pain, at times moderately acute, but generally rather oppressive, which was located always at the same point, viz., the junction of the third (3d) costal cartilage with the sternum on the right side. Domestic medication was resorted to without avail. The affection slowly increasing while her strength gradually diminished, she reluctantly resigned her duties as a teacher in June of 1880, from which time to her death in April of 1S82, she remained an invalid generally confined to the house, and under vari- ous forms of treatment from the profession and others. She moved to Baltimore, and came under my charge January 16, 1882. Her condition at that time was shockingly bad as regards her nutrition; her form was thin and emaciated, suggesting the decay of chronic tuberculosis. She complained of a cough, most troublesome at night, and attended with very little expectoration; of occasional attacks of dyspnoea, associated with the sensation of oppression and great pain on breathing; of extreme weak- ness ; loss of appetite; of constipation, with attacks of diarrhoea; and that her menstrual flow had not appeared for over five (5) months. Her kidneys acted well; urine normal. Upon examination I found that an oval swelling, three and a half inches (31 inches) by two and three-quarters (2f) inches, occupied the sternal region, beginning at the first rib on the right side, and extending obliquely down- ward and to the left as far as the fourth rib. This swelling was moderately firm, immovable, while the integument glided easily over its surface; it was not painful on pressure, though if handled a great deal, the doing so always gave rise to the old cough; no inflammatory indications were ever associated with it. The mass had grown slowly, commencing in June, 1880. It appeared to be a part of the sternum, or rather a bulging forward of the sternum at the points named, since the sides of the tumor seemed to fade gradually into the breast-bone laterally above and below. A gland as large as a wal- nut was found above the mamma between the sternal growth and the axilla of the left side; both axillae were crowded with large glands, which at times were painful. The breast never became involved. In the subclavian triangle of each side, though larger on the right, lymphatic glands were found; one was also met with in the superior carotid triangle of right side. These glands had appeared at various