[ 95 ] SYPHILITIC ULCERATION IN THE UPPER AIR PASSAGES. BY CARL SEILER, M.D., Lecturer on Diseases of the Throat at the University of Pennsylvania, &c., dr. Annie A., set. 18, waitress, a healthy-looking girl, complained that her speech was almost unin- telligible, her voice having a very nasal sound and of the character noticed in cases of cleft palate. She stated that when she was six years of age she had had sore throat for several months. Since then she had enjoyed good health, but her speech had gradually become worse. On examination I found the following condition of the palate, pharynx and larynx: Both anterior and posterior pillars on the right side had disappeared, as well as the tonsil, while the margin of the velum about one-half inch from the base of the uvula was tightly adherent to the wall of the pharynx at the median line. From the point of adherence a fold of mucous membrane ran down toward the base of the tongue, and was evidently the remains of the posterior pillar. The uvula was drawn over toward the left side and hung in a slanting position. The tonsil and both pillars on the leftside were normal. A short distance above the root of the uvula was a stellate cicatrix. The velum and uvula were but slightly movable, and did not close the naso-pharyngeal opening during phonation. This explained the character of the voice. A rhinoscopic examination showed the right side of the vault of the pharynx to be closed by cicatricial tissue, while the left side and the posterior nares appeared normal. Although vocalization was normal, and the patient complained of no symptoms pointing to disease of the larynx, I made a laryngoscopic examination and found the following lesions: The epiglottis had been destroyed by ulceration down to the level of the giosso epiglottic sulcus on the left side, and projected but little above that level on the right. Its margin was ragged and of a glistening white appearance showing the line of mucous membrane on the other side sharply defined. The left ary-epiglottic ligament with the cartilages of Wrisberg and of Santorini had also been destroyed, and in their place was a band of cicatricial tissue making a deep excavation in the outline of the laryngeal image on the left side. The left arytenoid cartilage was represented by a slight elevation under the mucous membrane, out of which projected a small spicule, evidently the remains of the apex of the arytenoid cartilage. The ventricular bands as well as the vocal cords were normal and their motion during phonation perfect.