FISTULA. OF THE URETHRA. [ Cl ] to the right edge of the fistula, and A, the flap twisted from the left side and dorsum. The penis was then enveloped in lint soaked in carbolized water, and subsequently the urine was regularly and caref ully drawn by introducing the catheter through theqwrinwal wound. At the end of the first week union was found to be complete, with the exception of the attachment on the right side, where a small portion of the flap broke away, and remained slightly undermined at the extreme edge. All granulating points having cicatrized, I took the second step in the case on January 17, 1876. The peri nasal wound had already closed, and I again freely opened it. It was necessary to construct a floor to the urethra, which was accomplished in a manner similar to, and suggested by, the operation described by Julius Yon Szymanowski, in his ITandbuch der operativen Chirurgie, page 405. On the right of the fistula, where the skin was already slightly undermined, the knife was introduced so as to separate the skin still more, and form a pocket perhaps half an inch in depth. On the left of the fistula a large square was cut with its attached base at the edge of the fistula. This flap was dissected up, and turned over so as to present integument to the urethra, and was moreover tucked under the integument of the opposite side, its edge being carried to the bottom of the pocket already described, and there retained by means of sutures carried directly through the skin. The undermined edge of the right side was then drawn over the inverted flap (raw surfaces being thus brought in contact), and all adjacent edges were carefully stitched together. A floor was thus formed to the urethra, this floor being composed of two thicknesses of skin. I did not expect to obtain at this time a complete closure of the fistula, but only to cover the principal part of it. Union took place wherever raw surfaces had been brought in contact, but there still remained a small round opening about one-eiglith of an inch in diameter at the base of the glans, and concealed by the overhanging edge of the new floor, and also a small linear fistula at the posterior edge of the same. The condition of the penis after this operation is shown in Fig. 52, B, indicating the position of the anterior opening (the opening itself being concealed by the overhanging skin), and A, indicating the posterior linear opening. Tempted by the small size of the anterior opening, I next made an attempt to close it by paring the edges and drawing them together with fine sutures. This was, as might have been expected, a complete failure, the stitches tearing out, and the opening being left rather larger than before. I had neglected to adopt the plan which is essential to success, namely, to supply new tissue to fill up the opening, and to supply that new tissue in as great thickness as possible. This plan I carried out in the next attempt, made on April 14th. The peri meal wound had again closed, and was now again freely opened. There was, of course, no foreskin, but the integument posterior to the opening overhung it to such an extent, that I could turn it back, and mark out upon the surface presented to the fistula an area about one- third of an inch square. This surface was rendered raw, with the exception of the central portion,