ILLUSTRATED MEDICINE AND SURGERY. [ 96 ] An operation with a view to loosen the velum from the pharynx was deemed impracticable. There is no doubt in my mind that these cicatrices were the result of syphilitic ulcerations, the disease having in all probability been inherited. The points of interest in this case are the absence of all laryngeal symptoms, and particularly the fact that deglutition was normal although the projecting portion of the epiglottis was absent, and that phonation irrespective of articulation was good in spite of the loss of the greater portion of the left arytenoid cartilage. Case II.—John J., jet. 23, machinist, consulted me in regard to a severe cold in the head which had lasted several weeks. I recognized in him a patient who had been under treatment at the Uni- versity Throat Dispensary three years before for secondary manifestations in the larynx. lie told me that after his discharge from the dispensary he had continued his medicine (iodide of potassium) for several weeks only. Upon examination of the anterior nares I found a perforation of the cartilaginous septum by ulceration, which latter extended along the floor of the right nostril and invaded the lower turbinated bone. The left nostril was free from ulceration, but obstructed by a large anterior hypertrophy of the tissue covering the lower turbinated bone. Inspection of the mouth showed a small ulcer on the palate situated in the median line and about three-quarters of an inch from the teeth. On the pharynx a gummatous swelling occupying nearly the whole of the right side was seen, and the rhinoscopic mirror showed it to extend high up into the vault of the pharynx. Examination with a probe showed that a communication existed between the ulcer on the floor of the nose and that on the hard palate, and demonstrated the existence of necrosed bone. The patient was placed under specific treatment, and the ulcerations in the nose, after having been cleansed from their secretions, were thoroughly cauterized with the galvano-cautery, after which daily applications of a solution of acid nitrate of mercury were made to their surfaces. In a few weeks the ulcerations began to heal. A sequestrum in the palate became detached and was removed through the nose, leaving a small oval perforation in the palate. About that time the gummatous swelling in the pharynx commenced to ulcerate in its entire extent, in spite of the vigorous systemic treatment, and this ulcer was also cauterized with the galvano-cautery and the acid nitrate of mercury. Several weeks elapsed, however, before it showed any signs of healing, and then was very slow in disappearing, so that the treatment extended over several months. Throughout the duration of the pharyngeal ulceration the patient experienced great difficulty in deglutition. At the present time, five months after the healing of the pharyngeal ulcer, no cicatricial contrac- tion has caused deformity, and the scar is barely visible. The right nostril also appears normal with the exception of the perforation. It is my experience that ulcerating gummata and deep syphilitic ulcers of the mucous membrane are always due to the breaking down of gummata, and if treated locally, the destruction of tissue can be confined to the swelling itself. It is the extension of the ulcerative process beyond the limits of the gumma which gives rise to destruction of tissue and cicatricial contraction. This is illustrated by my first case, in which the ulcers were not treated locally, and consequently a large amount of tissue was destroyed.