PLASTIC OPERATIONS ON THE FACE. [ 157 ] sequently of the Hap required to fill the vacant space. It would have been extremely difficult to have transplanted, by the Indian method, a flap of sufficient extent to cover so large a space in this region of the face, and if it had been found practicable, it would have left a very large space to granu- late and cicatrize in the region from which the flap had been taken. 3d. The method, adopted in this case, of gliding a flap with a curved peduncle, so as to fill the vacant space without any considerable degree of tension, and without leaving any large surface to granulate. I have operated by this method in a number of cases, and have been able to bi'ing the edges of the wound together by sutures throughout their whole extent and to secure substantial union by the first intention. 4th. The secondary hemorrhage, which rendered it necessary to reopen the wound to secure the bleeding vessels. This was an unpleasant occurrence, although it did not unfavorably affect the ulti- mate result of the operation. I have no doubt that the hemorrhage was the result of jerking off the ligatures from the vessels, and I would not recommend the repetition of this manoeuvre in a similar case. The result of the operation, although imperfect, may be fairly considered as a marked success. When we take into consideration the great extent of the disease, and the large size of the flap which was required to fill up the space which was left vacant by the removal of the tumor, we can hardly feel surprised at the occurrence of the ectropion, or regard it as essentially detracting from the success of the operation. The second operation, which was performed on June 23d, was only partially successful in cur- ing the ectropion. The imperfect success of this operation was the result of partial sloughing of the flap. But notwithstanding this accident, the operation was followed by a very marked improvement in the appearance of the patient, and a decided diminution in the degree of the ectropion. It is a mat- ter of regret that the unexpected elopement of the patient from the hospital not only prevented me from performing an additional operation for the further improvement of the patient, but also deprived me of the opportunity of obtaining a drawing exhibiting the improvement which followed the second operation.