ABSENCE OF THE UPPER TAP. L ii J silken sutures. Before bringing the flaps together, as there was found to be some tension I cut across the mucous membranes of the pedicle of the right flap near its lower extremity, thinking that the mucous membrane of the flap itself would receive a sufficient vascular supply from the vessels of the submucous cellular tissue. A new Vermillion border was formed for each division of the lip, by drawing the mucous membrane forward, and attaching it by sutures to the external integument. The patient bore the operation well, being kept in a state of anaesthesia by a very moderate use of ether. Fig. 3 exhibits the flaps which were designed to restore the columna nasi, the upper lip, and the defective portion of the right ala nasi. Fig. 4 shows the new columna attached by sutures to the apex of the nose. Fig. 5 exhibits the remaining flaps secured in place by sutures and the space behind the right flap, left to granulate. May 2nd. Patient is in a comfortable condition. He has taken milk and beef-tea during the night. The wound looks well, except that the vermillion border of the right flap has a somewhat dusky appearance. 5th. One of the pins, and about half of the sutures were removed to-day. A lSrge part of the wound has united by first intention, but the vermillion border of the right flap is evidently gangrenous. May 10th. The remaining sutures were removed. 16th. The sloughy margin of the right flap came away to-day. 25th. Union is complete, except where the slough separated from the margin of the lip and at the posterior superior margin of the pedicle, where cicatrization is rapidly advancing. June 22nd. Every part of the sore is healed, except a minute portion about one cm. in length, and five mm. in breadth, at the posterior and superior margin of the pedicle, where the surface is covered with a thin scab on a level with the surrounding parts. The line of union of the right flap with the adjacent parts is at its proper level, except for a space of three cm. in length, extending out- ward from the angle of the mouth, when the line of union is depressed, and the adjacent surface puckered. The line of union of the left flap is level on its superior margin, and on the posterior side of its pedicle, but in other parts it is depressed, and the adjacent surface somewhat puckered. The vermillion border of the left flap is perfect throughout, and extends a little to the right of the median line. The free border of the right flap has no proper mucous covering, but the skin is inverted so as to form a fair substitute for a vermillion border, from the angle of the mouth about half way to the median line. Between the labial borders of the right and left flaps, there is a notch about two cm. long at the base, and extending upward to the height of one cm. above which the two sides of the lip are firmly but somewhat irregularly united. The flap which fills up the notch in the right ala of the nose is firmly united, but is abnormally thick. The new columna is perfectly united with the septum and the apex of the nose, and its obliquity is much less than might have been anticipated. (See plate I, fig. 2, see fig. 9, exhibiting the result of the first operation.) June 23rd. I performed the following supplementary operation. I first detached the left side