ILLUSTRATED MEDICINE AND SURGERY. [ 32 ] be thin, dry-fibred and sallow, one only plethoric. In two there was a family history of consumption. There was a definite history of gout either in the patient or of his father in four cases, and in one other the patient though not gouty was a painter. In five other cases, although no gout was present, the patients had other changes in the eyes, which are, the author says, closely allied to gout, iritis, glaucoma, hemorrhagic retinitis. One died with granular disease of the kidneys, hypertrophy of the heart, and pulmonary apoplexy, with widely diffused and abundant atheroma of the arteries, at the age of fifty- three. He had never had gout, and the absence of gouty changes is especially mentioned in the notes of the post-mortem. In five more there is no mention made of the state of the patient’s health. Nettleship follows this analysis with some facts, and queries what he thinks may be considered 'i" favor of local or constitutional causes to these we can only just allude. In favor of local cause (a) The opacity never invades those parts of the cornea which are habitually covered by the lids, (b) A margin of cornea at each end always remains free from the opacity, (c) It will be worth while to inquire whether, from decrease in sensibility of the cornea, such patients sleep with the eyes partially open or wink less often than other persons. Such peculiarities would allow of a freer evaporation from the exposed part of the cornea, and might therefore lead to collection of any solid residue at this place. (<l) Is it due to a superficial inflammatory change leading to calcification t (e) Can the disease be partly explained by natural differences in the closeness or permeability of the corneal tissue, or in the thickness of its epithelium in different persons ? In favor of a constitutional cause, (a) Although the opacity forms in an exposed part of the cornea, it occurs in so few persons that there must be some special conditions added; such as alter- ation of the eye fluids and therefore probably of the blood. (c) The history of gout in one case, and in the parents of several more, and the occurrence of diseases usually attributed to gout, seem to point to it, or to the excess of uric acid in the blood as a cause. (d) Is any corresponding (not necessarily identical) change met with elsewhere in the skin ? (e) Is the disease met with in the lower animals ? ( f ) In what relation does the corneal change stand to glaucoma and iritis when these occur l In concluding his article this author distinguishes between the present disease and the formation of a stripe of opacity of a somewhat similar character which occurs in eyes which have been for a long time blind. The pathological appearances, too, are different in the secondary baud shaped opacity. Goldzieher found them to consist of colloid formations in the superficial layers of the cornea, irregular thickening and degeneration of the epithelium and the presence of masses of fat in the deeper layers (Hirschberg’s Central Batt., Jan., 1S79. Quoted by Nettleship). Reference has been made to but a few of the points of interest in this peculiar affection, and those which I have thought most likely to interest the general reader. To those who may desire to become more familiar with the subject, I would recommend a perusal of Nettleship’s paper, which is a most exhaustive study of the subject. His paper has an appendix with the names of authors and an abstract of all recorded cases in the order of their publication. I have only been able to add four cases to bis list, the one here reported, two others observed by myself, mentioned in the paper, and that of Lewkowitsch.