ILLUSTRATED MEDICINE AND SURGERY. whole, should be passed through it. It can then be bent into the shape shown in the figure; and the wire will not only retain it in such shape, but will prevent the tube from being closed by the weight of the patient lying upon it. The free ends of the tube may be fitted with india-rubber corks, perforated to pass a bit of glass tubing for connecting with the syphon. The power of heat to reduce tension and relax spasms is well known. The warm coil then becomes serviceable in colic, ileus, pleurodynia, torticollis, lumbago, myalgia, arthralgia, &c., &c.; and in the more general conditions of collapse, the algid forms of cholera, and other diseases. The warm coil will also be an excellent cover for any poultice, stupe, or fomentation, since it maintains both the heat and the moisture which are sought, makes a given temperature continuous, and saves in part both the labor and the risk of frequent change. But it is for the use of cold as a medicine that the apparatus is most valuable. The power of cold over zymotic processes is indicated by the ice treatment of diphtheritic and gonorrheal conjunctivitis, or the ophthalmia of the new-born. Upon what does the admitted success of that treatment depend ? Does the cold assist the development of the microphyte, or microzymes which destroy the epithelium faster than it can be reproduced? or is it simply the constriction of the capillaries by cold and its sedative influence on the nerve-loops of the conjunctiva? The question is interesting. The surgeons of the Woman’s Hospital employ the cold coil upon the abdomen after laparotomy or ovariotomy to forefend and to treat those forms of inflamation, which, if they do not begin in sepsis, quickly end in it. Dr. Emmet reports a case in which the temperature was reduced from 10i to 99°, and kept down by the coil. I have not found the coil equally serviceable in typhoid fever, although I have repeatedly seen the temperature, taken under the tongue, fall two or three degrees after circulating water at 70° through a coil laid upon the abdomen. It cannot be expected that as a means of controlling general pyrexia this method will equal those of immersion, affusion (Ivibbe) and the cold pack, but doubtless it may be made very valuable in cases where these methods cannot be employed, and in particular, in maintaining a reduction of p. temperature which has been secured by other means. It is in local diseases that the most general and striking utility of refrigeration is seen. It is a question whether the inflammatory process can go on in a tissue cooled below a certain point; however this may be, it is certain that it is greatly restrained by cold. My own experience with it has been chiefly in injuries to joints—sprains, contusions, luxations ; inflammation of deeper fibrous tissues, &c. In a recent case of penetrating and lacerated wound of the knee-joint—the wound having been closed antiseptically and the limb kept at rest on a splint, the cold was applied with a prompt relief of pain, abortion of all inflammatory symptoms, and when, after four days, the cold was removed, the joint was in apparently normal state and the external wound nearly healed. Many such cases may be found in Esmarch’s monograph. He particularly commends it in disease of the vertebrae, and in spinal meningitis, as does Allibut in rheumatic cerebral meningitis, Niemeyer in pleurisy. In the tetanus which is so common on the eastern end of Long Island, the prolonged application of ice to the spine has been said to be followed by very great success. [ ™ ]