t 23 1 SEPARATION OF THE LOWER EPIPHYSIS OF THE FEIHR. BY JAMES L. LITTLE, M.D., Professor of the Principles and Practice of Surgery, University of Vermont; Professor of Clinical Surgery, University of New York; Surgeon to St. Luke's Hospital, New York City, cfee., &c. Plate III. illustrates this somewhat rare form of injury. The separation is complete except at the inner and external surface, where a small piece of the shaft was chipped off and remained attached to the epiphysis. This small piece was lost before the sketch was made by the artist, Mr. George C. Wright. The history of the case is as follows : On April 18th, 1865, a boy, aged eleven, while hanging on the back of a wagon, stealing a ride, had his right leg caught between the spokes of the wheel while in motion. The result of this sudden and forcible twisting of the leg was to cause a diastasis of the lower epiphysis, and the forcing of the lower extremity of the shaft through the soft parts on the upper and outer part of the popliteal space, the upper fragment completely overlapping the lower. The protruding part of the shaft was cleanly stripped of its periosteum for a space of about three inches. The hemorrhage was quite free, but no ligatures were necessary. The fragments were readjusted by strong extension of the limb, and flexion of the leg upon the thigh while patient was under the influence of ether. A dull cartilaginous crepitus could be felt when the fragments were moved upon each other. The wound did not appear to communicate with the knee joint. After reduction, the limb was placed on a double inclined plane. The following day, the upper fragment was found to be displaced. The patient was again placed under an anaesthetic, and it w-as then found that the fragments could be kept in place only by extreme flexion of the leg. This position was maintained by binding the leg to the thigh by means of strips of adhesive plaster. This apparently constrained posi- tion was not uncomfortable to the patient. On the thirteenth day alarming secondary hemorrhage took place while dressing the wound. This was controlled by a tourniquet, and as soon as the patient rallied from the effects of the loss of blood, amputation of the thigh at its lower third was performed. The boy made a good recovery. The hemorrhage was found to have come from an injury to the anterior tibial artery near its origin. The plate shows the situation of the wound. Dr. Hamilton, in his work on Fractures and Dislocations, reports three additional cases of this form of injury. In one case, an abscess formed and amputation became necessary; in another,