MULTIPLE SARCOMA OF SIMM. [ 150 ] body until November last (1882), when, after a severe fall upon the ice, he was astonished at feeling a swelling under his right arm, in the axilla; small at first, gradually increasing and becoming more painful with time. Three weeks later, he appreciated a similar swelling in left axillary region. This wras much smaller, and not at all painful; besides, it did not grow rapidly. Present History.—Patient’s general health is apparently excellent. No specific conditions ob- servable. Vegetative functions perfect. Drinks of malt liquors moderately and systematically; smokes some, but not excessively. Feels absolutely well, though he thinks that his physical vigor has some- what failed within “ the past few years.” The following is the result of an examination of patient’s urine as passed for twenty-four hours on Jan. 29th and 30tli, 1883. Chemical Examination. Microscopical Examination. Quantity passed in 24 hours, 40 oz. Urates, amorphous, and of soda. Specific gravity, 1022. Casts, none. Color, dark yellow. Epithelium, from bladder. Odor, strong. Pus, none. Reaction, acid. Blood, none. Albumen, none. Sugar, none. Bile, none. The present appearance of the growth, in Mi1. X.’s case, is nicely represented in the accompany- ing photographs. It will be noticed that the nodules and tubercles covering patient’s back are of various sizes and shapes, beside being discrete and pigmented. Some are smooth and quite elastic, others firm and hard; a few seem to fluctuate, but no fluid can be withdrawn by the hypodermic ex- ploring needle. Pressure produces no markedly painful impressions. There is no hemorrhage from their surfaces, nor are they ulcerated and broken down at any point. The same might be said with reference to the morbid processes covering his abdomen, with these exceptions, perhaps: 1st. The nodules are smaller and smoother: 2d. Are less discrete: 3d. Are not so markedly colored : 4th. Dis- ease is decidedly less advanced. The axillary glandular enlargements which were spoken of when giving patient’s history, are at the present time of writing very striking, especially those in the light axillary space; the left being tolerably free. Under the right arm, in the axilla, is a glandular tumor quite as large as the adult fist, hard, nodular, and freely movable, being in nowise adherent to the overlying skin. It is not tender when pressed, and simply annoys patient because of its size. The left axillary space contains an en- larged gland, possibly the size of a hen’s egg; also freely movable, disconnected with the skin, and free from pain or tenderness. The case is interesting, naturally, from the fact that the disease is of rather infrequent occurrence.