ILLUSTRATED MEDICINE AND SURGERY. [ 50 ] the resulting cicatrices, of which Nos. 2 ami 4 arc attached to bone, clearly show that the case was one of destructive ostitis and disorganization of the joint. For many weeks the constitutional disturbance was severe. There was pallor with frequent hectic flushes and elevation of the temperature. Exacer- bations of pain were partially relieved by the application of moist or dry heat. The diet was liberal and unrestricted in variety. Cod-liver oil and the ferruginous tonics were freely used. Notwithstanding the severity of the local symptoms and emaciation, the patient was usually able to be about the house, or out of doors, with the assistance of a pair of crutches, although it is probable that if he had not been previously dependent on them for a long time, he would have preferred to rely simply on the ischiatic support furnished by the splint. The slightest attempt at motion in the joint was exquisitely painful, and the patient, soon after the beginning of treatment, perceived that locomotion and even movement of the body in bed were painless only when extension and counter-extension, with a reasonable degree of im- mobility, were enforced. At the end of a year it became evident from the diminution of the purulent discharge, the disposition of the sinuses to close, the tol- erance of motion in the joint, and the improved con- dition of the patient that reparation was fairly estab- lished, and that fixation of the joint was no longer necessary. The splint was therefore removed and its Fig. 45. Fig. 44. place was supplied by an instrument which, receiving the patient’s weight on a single perineal strap, prevented his heel from reaching the ground and at the same time allowed of motion at the hip and knee. The crutches were then laid aside and this instrument was worn for three years, a longer time than was necessary, through excess of caution on the part of the patient’s father, who assumed the subsequent care of the case. The patient’s present condition, eighteen mouths after all treatment was discontinued, is well depicted in Figs. 43 and 44. lie is an active and robust school-boy, entering heartily into all the ordinary pursuits of a boy of his age. He takes long walks to and from school, and is a good skater.