A TER A TOL 0 GIGA L CO NT RIB UTION. 126 ] c.—Abrachius Peropus. Female foetus, live inches in length; head one and seven-eighths inches; body two and three- eighths; lower extremities three-fourths. The head is large, face small; external ear rudimentary, situated lower than ordinary from the tip of the nose to the line of the upper lip; the breadth of shoulders is one and one-half inches. The arms are entirely wanting ; the apparent stump is owing to a development of the condyloid process of the scapula; instead of the glenoid cavity we find a round, smooth, cartilaginous protuberance appearing like the caput humeri. The scapula und clavicle are otherwise well formed. The pelvis is small. The leg is formed by a single bone which lias a large head, and is attached to the pelvis loosely by numerous ligaments. The head of the bone has more the appearance of that of the tibia than that of the femur. The bone itself is more like a femur than a tibia. It is round in shape and is directly attached to the long, narrow foot which has three metatarsal bones and three toes, corresponding to the large toe and the two adjacent ones. The fibula and two toes, which may be said more or less belonging to this, is wanting. The afterbirth also offers various peculiarities. The cord is very much twisted; the foetal extremity attached low down, less than half an inch above the pubes and one and seven-eighths inches below the neck. The placental extremity enters the membranes fully half an inch from the border of the placenta, there being really no placental attachment whatsoever. The placenta is three and one-half inches in length by two and one-half inches in breadth, and is peculiar in the irregularity of the formation of its lobes. The condition of the funis is deserving of some attention ; whether influencing the irregular development of the foetus in any way or not I dare not say, but certain it is that a thinned or twisted cord necessitates an insuf- ficient supply of blood, as the circulation is obstructed, if the vessels are of sufficient size [in many cases they are contracted], so that even without additional mechanical obstruction they are unable to supply the demand. In most cases the development of the embryo is thereby retarded; it dies, and abortion follows, either of an incompletely developed ovum, or of a mole if the ovum is retained in utero a certain length of time after death of the embryo. These conditions I have frequently observed, and I am inclined to attribute the cause of the miscarriage in this case to the death of the embryo from insufficient nutrition through the obstructed vessels of the funis, yet I doubt whether this will in any way explain the deformity, although it is one of retarded or incomplete, not of active though perverted development. Unfortunately, I can obtain no history of any of these monstrosities but the first. We certainly cannot account for this deformity by the fact of the mother’s anxiety or the troubles of an unfortunate girl, and no history would assist us in explaining the peculiar formation of the various organs in the other two.