ILLUSTRATE!) MEDICINE AND SURGERY. r 46 The first application of a splint to a patient in the third stage of hip-disease is a matter of some difficulty. The apparatus is constructed as if it were to be applied to a symmetrical figure ; hence when first brought near the patient the symmetry of the splint throws the deformity into such marked relief as to make it seem impossible to use the apparatus. The free ends of the pelvic band may extend obliquely upwards over the thorax in front and behind, on account of the extreme adduction. The perineal straps may be far from occupying the places which they would fill if the patient’s body were symmetrical, indeed, it may be impossible at first to use them on the affected side. But with care and gentleness the instrument can be so arranged as to permit of a slight amount of extension and counter- extension. This is attended inevitably by a partial but most grateful arrest of motion and is followed immediately by a gradual reduction of the deformity. In a few days the symmetry of the patient’s figure will be so far restored that the splint is properly and comfortably worn. The pelvic band can then be lowered to its place below the level of the anterior superior spine of the ilium, the perineal straps will adapt themselves to the ischiatic and pubic regions, the flexion, of the femur will be materially diminished, and the adduction will have given place to abduction. This new abduction, with the consequent apparent lengthening, may become so great as to cause anxiety for the ultimate position of the Fig. 39. Fig. 38. limb. This, however, disappears in time. As the patient gathers strength from the absence of pain and the return of sleep and appetite, locomotion without crutches will be resumed, and it will be seen that the fixation afforded by the splint is so well adapted to the requirements of the case as to obviate pain and promote the reparative processes and yet not so firm as to prevent the gradual disappearance of the abduction and the further diminution of the flexion in obedience to the unconscious efforts of the patient to put the limb in the most favorable position for locomotion. These views of the action of the hip-splint in the reduction of the deformity of acute hip-disease are at variance with much that has been written on this subject, but they are founded on clinical observation. The changes from adduction to abduction and finally to a symmetrical position of the limb were observed in due order in this case. With the hip-joint thus protected from undue motion and also from