CASES OF EVP TUBE OF THE CHOROID. at the time I examined him, he said he could only see in its outer part. The ophthalmoscope showed, between the macula and disc, two linear white streaks beginning close to the latter, and running in two horizontal, almost parallel branches to the extreme periphery of the fundus; the upper one having a somewhat curved direction with its convexity looking upwards. The lower one had a much straighter course. They were not united by a transverse fissure, but were disconnected at their ends; the upper streak lying closest to the disc, as is shown in the drawing. The streaks were very narrow, not more than l or l I). wide. Their borders were irregular, and were, especially the upper ones, pigmented. The space included between the rupture showed pigmentation and rarefaction of the choroid. To the nasal side was another rupture running obliquely from above downwards; its upper edge about 1 L). from the disc, 2D. in length and J in width; somewhat linear in shape, the upper end slightly bifurcated, the lower drawn out to a point; along its borders, and in the centre of the gap, a col- lection of pigment spots. The vessels which could be traced to the locality of the choroidal defects, passed without any change of direction over them. This case is interesting; as showing; the occurrence of three distinct rents of the choroid. Those running in a horizontal direction more or less parallel, are an example of the rarest form of choroidal rupture. Of interest, too, is the occurrence of another tear upon the opposite side of the disc. In this case, too, there was at first metamorphopsia, and then a large central scotoma. The sight, as men- tioned may be the case, became worse by the contraction of the choroidal scar, causing at first meta- morphopsia, and then scotoma; the effect of the contracting cicatritial tissue at first affecting only some of the retinal elements, later all those involved in the scar, and thus destroyed them to such an ex- tent as to abolish their function. A remarkable feature of this case, but not without an analogue, is the insignificance of the symptoms produced by an injury sufficient to cause such serious mischief to the eye. It has been already pointed out by other observers that, although the choroid is a vascular membrane, the amount of hemorrhage caused by its rupture varies greatly. Certainly in this case it would appear that the sight could not have been very seriously impaired, or it would have been noticed soon after the injury. I have seen several cases where the primary results of the injury have been thought very little of. The next twro cases of choroidal rupture observed by me were of the usual linear-shaped white scars situated between the optic disc and macula, and had no features which make it worth the while to report them in detail; they were both examined a long time after the injury which gave rise to them, and in both the vision was considerably impaired. In the one instance s2o°o> hi the other, only o- The latter case was discovered quite accidentally, the patient declaring that he had nothing the matter with his sight. Ophthalmoscopic examination, however, showed a typical rupture of the choroid, and when questioned, he remembered being struck on the eye some years ago with a snowball. Case 6, Fig. 4, is the only one which I have had the opportunity to observe soon after the injury. It is, too, by fir the most extensive choroidal rupture I have seen myself, or know of as described. The patient was a boy of fourteen years, referred to me by Dr. Arango, his family physician, who was called to see him soon after the injury, and who was so good as to place the care of the case entirely in my hands. The day before I saw him he was struck upon the left eye, as was supposed, by a stone thrown from a sling, by one of his playmates. [ ]