t 08 ] ILLUSTRATED MEDICINE AND SURGERY. This condition has been described under various names by different authors. In 1843 Dr. (after wards Sir James) Simpson contributed an article to the Edinburgh Medical Journal, on “ Congenital Ichthyosis,” describing a case he had seen, which description corresponds almost exactly with the present case. The most complete and exhaustive description may be found in Strieker’s “ Medizin- ische Jahrbiicher” for 1880, by Dr. Ivyber of the Russian Navy. He calls it a “ Diffuse Congenital Keratoma,” which name would seem to be the proper one, as the abnormity consists chiefly in an enor- mous hypertrophy of the corneal layer of the epidermis, with excessive development of the papilla of the corium. The epidermis has the appearance of rather coarse kid, of a yellow color, and of almost the firmn ess and consistency of cartilage. Where it is preserved intact, it is smooth, without any promi- nences or spines such as are described in many cases of ichthyosis, and has no scales such as appear in some forms of that disease. To judge from its appearance, it is purely the mechanical result of the growth and development of a child within an unyielding case of dense skin, as separations and fissures have occurred in all directions, and are most numerous where flexion and extension are performed during intra-uterine life, notably on the neck, anterior part of abdomen, and at the joints of the extremities. These fissures leave islands of dense skin of varying shapes, bounded by shelving margins which have a shiny fibillated appearance, and meet the similar margins from adjacent islands, and at their line of junc- tion is found the thinnest portion of the covering. These plates are largest on the back and buttocks ; smallest on anterior part of the trunk and the extremities. The scalp, with here and there some hair about its greatest circumference,is extensively fissured over the vertex and occiput; the ears are incom- pletely formed, very hard and firm, and bound down flat to the head, while no meatus externus can be found. The nose is completely flattened, and shows only the prominence of the alar cartilages and two nasal apertures. Over the nose the skin is intact, but fissures exist on either side, and extend round the mouth, which is large, held widely open, is elliptical in shape, with everted lips and a large, protruding tongue. The eyebrows are wanting; there is ectropion of the upper lid of the right eye, showing a bright red cushion of mucous membrane filling the aperture of orbit; the left upper lid is not everted, and the eyes underneath are apparently normal. On the neck, especially behind, the plates are almost completely detached, uncovering the true skin. Circular fissures extend around the wrists running deeply into the underlying tissues, but not uncovering the carpal bones as has been observed in some similar cases. The hands are very much deformed, resembling the paws of an animal; the epidermis extends only to the first phalanx, beyond which the fingers are clubbed and armed with rudimentary nails resem- bling claws. The feet are almost cylindrical in shape—hard and swollen, completely covered with epi- dermis, without fissures, and bearing each five rudimentary toes. The external genital organs are per- fect, with vulva and hymen of normal appearance and meatus urinarius. The anus is perforate, though, apparently rather small. The autopsy revealed the presence of fluid blood and fibrine in the abdominal cavity, with ecchymotic spots on the intestines. The kidneys on section intensely congested, but other- wise normal Spleen congested, and liver dripping with blood. Lungs in state of partial atelectasis. Ecchymotic spots on the pericardial surface of heart. Brain the seat of many small hemorrhages with one quite large clot on the surface of posterior part of left lobe. This case will be more fully and accurately described with microscopical pathological changes in the October number of the American Journal of Obstetrics.