ILLUSTRATED MEDICINE AND SURGERY. of the lips, and thence continued on each side downward and outward to the extent of six cm. beyond the angles of the mouth. These incisions were carried through into the buccal cavity, and the lip was brought down into its normal position. I then made an oblique incision through the lip, commencing at its upper part on the left side of the median line, and extending down to the vermilion border one cm. to the right of the median line, and the parts were then united by sutures, so that the rela- tively superfluous vermilion border of the left side overlapped the margin of the right side, a raw surface having been made for its reception. An attempt was then made to close the chasm made by the depression of the right side of the lip, by dissecting a flap from the upper part of the cheek, with a pedicle curved downward and outward to a point twelve mm. in front of the lobe of the ear. But when the flap was dissected from the subjacent parts, it was found that it could not be brought over to the internal limit of the chasm which it was designed to fill. In order to bring the flap into place, it was necessary to perform the hazardous experiment of dissecting the pedicle down- ward and inward to the base of the jaw, leaving the narrowest portion in front of the lobe of the ear only twelve mm. in breadth. The flap was then readily brought into place and secured by sutures, leaving a large chasm around the posterior circumference of the transplanted flap. The portion of the wound uncovered by integument was dressed with lint moistened with collodion. The surface of the flap was covered with lint smeared with salicylic ointment. 27th. The flap, which was at first pale, has assumed a brighter color. There is some oedcmatous swelling, with a burning sensation. The surface was washed with a carbolic acid lotion, one part to forty, and again dressed with salicylic oint- ment. 28th. A slight blush of erysipelas has appeared in the integument of the eyelids of the right side, and the flap has begun to assume a livid color. Ordered sulph. quinine, gr. viij., and tinct. ferri chloridi, min. x., to be given, and the inflamed integument to be penciled with tinct. iodini. 29th. The extremity of the Hap, to the extent of five cm. has evidently lost its vitality. The erysipelas is spreading over the forehead, and has extended to the occiput. Jan. 5th, 1SS1. The space left by the separation of the slough is filling up with granulations. Feb. lltli. The contraction of the granula- tions, and the process of cicatrization, have gone on, until the chasm left by the separation of the sloughs has become nearly filled. March 4th. The wounds are substantially healed, and the right angle of the mouth has been drawn up nearly to the same position as before the last operation. By my advice, the patient left the hospital, and went home to recruit his general health. I iiope at some future time to make an effort to improve the position of the right oral commissure. The result of the first operation performed on this patient was very satisfactory, although it was far from restoring the perfect symmetry of the face. The subsequent operations contributed much less to the improvement of the patient’s appearance than it was hoped that they would. The whole result has been the reconstruction of an upper lip which had been almost completely destroyed, the partial reparation of the notch in the right ala nasi, and the complete restoration of the columna nasi. The left side of the lip is nearly perfect, but the right side is drawn up above its proper level, and the mouth cannot be perfectly closed. Note. This case was reported at the meeting of the American Medical Association held at Richmond, Va., May 4th, 1881, but lias not been given to the public until the present time. [ 1« ]