ILLUSTRATED MEDICINE AND SURGERY. [ 100 ] In the third place, the percentage of recoveries in all forms of empyema is greater when the evacuation of pus is spontaneously accomplished than when incisions are resorted to for that purpose. The use of the aspirator for that matter, however, may often prevent the formation of an external opening, and thus possibly assist in causing recovery by the absorption of the fluid and the total arrest of the pus formation. Fourthly, spontaneous evacuations of pus through the chest wall are not necessarily fatal, even when the openings are large and the lung exposed over a large area. Permanent fistulse may form and pus escape in small quantities for years. The adjacent organs are liable to suffer marked displacement from their natural position, however, and the lung once subjected to external atmospheric pressure seldom regains its full expansibility under the most favorable auspices. Fifthly, the evacuation of pus from the pleural cavity may not always be through the intercostal spaces. Cases are not infrequently reported where the lung itself has been made the vehicle for the spontaneous evacuation of pus. The diaphragm may also be perforated and the pus may then gravitate into the cavity of the abdomen and open spontaneously at a point far remote from the chest. These causes are often difficult of diagnosis. A fatal peritonitis may alone tell the medical attendant that pus has entered the peritoneal cavity; the escape of pus from the bowels reveals the fact that the alimentary canal has been made to communicate with the cavity of the pleura; a lumbar abscess shows that the abdominal wall has been the channel of purulent infiltration; a tumor in the groin points to the psoas muscle as the line of descent of fluid which has perforated the diaphragm. Finally, the symptoms of a developing empyema are often extremely vague, and are liable to be overlooked until the disease has progressed far in its course. Local pain may be absent; the dyspnoea is usually slight; a previous pleurisy has yielded its characteristic symptoms which are not materially altered when the fluid in the chest begins to be transformed into pus; the change in the patient rather indicates that of the last stage of pulmonary phthisis ; and at last the aspirator becomes indispensable in any endeavor to decide positively the question at issue.