THE THERAPEUTIC USES OF RUBBER TUBING. [ 72 ] 2. The rubber tubes are very much lighter and more comfortable, by reason of their lightness, and of their less rapid conduction. 3. They are less liable to accident, since a fall or any undue compression will destroy the metal tubes, or their efficiency. 3. They are not patented, are less expensive, and as they may be prepared when and as wanted, do not involve the purchase and storage of many cumbrous pieces. The primary irrigating apparatus is shown in Fig. 71. A tube of white vulcanized rubber, five feet long, three-sixteenths of an inch calibre. One end is slipped over the stem of a tubulated weight (I have found the forms 1, 2 and 3 in the shops), and the other end is fitted with a small brass stop- cock (4). The tube is to be filled, using the cup-like weight as a funnel, or by suction, the stop-cock closed, and the weighted end dropped into a bottle, pitcher, pail or tub, according as little or much water is needed. Upon opening the stop-cock the water will flow with a force pro- portioned to the difference in level between the two ends of the tube. For some uses a bottle with tubulars at bottom (5) is convenient; the tube will then be always filled by gravity. Posterior Nares.—Irrigation of the posterior nares (Weber’s Douche) is less in vogue now than it was ten years ago, on account of the accidents which have followed the entrance of water into the middle ear. Nevertheless, the method is retained by some of the most eminent throat specialists, and the danger is held to be infinitesimal if the patient has been sufficiently educated to keep the head bowed forward, the mouth wide open, and to control the impulse to swallow while the current of warm salt water is flowing with moderate force. Stomach,—Irrigation of the stomach is rendered very easy and effective by the use of the long tube mentioned by Dr. S. O. Yanderpoel, and shown in Fig. 7^, made of soft rubber with velvet surface, open, fenestrated at the distal end, and expanded into a funnel at the proximal. It passes easily through the oesophagus, aided by the swallowing effort of the patient. The tube is five feet long. When raised above the head of the patient, any given quantity (a pint) of water is poured into