[ 33 j OVARIAN PREGNANCY. BY ISAAC E. TAYLOR, M.D., Emeritus Professor of Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children, and President of the Faculty of the Bellevue Hospital Medical College, New York. This pathological specimen of aberrant pregnancy came under my notice some years since. A female between twenty-four and twenty-five years of age, married only a few months— general health good—regular every month, had passed her last period about two weeks, and considered herself four or five weeks pregnant. The ordinary signs of gestation, though slight, existed. At this time she was affected with severe vomiting, accompanied with intense pain over the uterine and left ovarian region. Under the treatment adopted she was materially relieved. The following day the uterine and ovarian pains returned, accompanied with fainting, when sudden collapse ensued, and the patient died. Autopsy.—The uterus was larger than in the unimpregnated state—was two and three-quarters inches in length, and one and three-quarters in breadth. The body of the uterus was rounder than nat- ural from the os tincse to the fundus ; the muscular structure was thicker than ordinary. There was no physiological hypersemia, noflocculent deposit, nor any decidua. The interior of the body of the uterus was paler than usual, except at the lower part of the cervix, which was congested in small vascular spots near the os tincse. The broad ligaments were slightly congested and were carefully removed to obtain a distinct view of the ovaries. The left Fallopian tube was very slightly attached to the ovary, by a small portion of the fimbriae, and was not very vascular. The tube was cut off near the uterus, and this was not more congested than the interior of the uterus. The ovary was very much enlarged, of a deep red appearance, especially at the uterine end. The small white spot of about two lines in length, indicates where the rupture occurred, and from which two or three pints of blood issued. The ovary measured one inch ten lines in length and one inch four lines in breadth. The distal end was more prominent and fuller than the uterine, but it was not as deeply congested. The epithelial covering was thinner, and gave no evidence of laceration. This tunic, as well as the tunica propria, was divided and turned back displaying the Graafian follicle, with its clear and transparent pearl-colored membrane, through which a small solid body could be seen. It appeared to be directly in apposition with the small circular white Text fok Plate V.—1. Cavity of uterus, no decidua. 2. Cavity of cervix, congested. 3. Left ovary, highly vascular, and spot where rupture occurred. 4. Ovarian epithelium, and tunica propria cut open showing, 5. Enlarged Graafian follicle. 6. Thin transparent tunica pellucida or vitelline membrane, with a small body size of a pea attached. i. Right o\ary, very large. 8. The remains of three cicatrices. 9. Ovarian epithelium, dissected olf.