ABSENCE OF THE UPPER LIP. [ 15 1 The pins were removed on the 15th and 16th, and the sutures on the 23d. The wound healed perfectly, leaving the right angle of the mouth elevated above its proper level to the extent of fifteen mm. The right cheek and the corresponding angle of the mouth were adherent to the maxillary bone. On the 11th of November I endeavored to overcome these defects by the following operations. I divided the adhesions connecting the soft parts with the bone, arid then cut a triangular flap with its apex above, and its base including the angle of the mouth, carrying the incisions into the buccal cavity, and drawing down the commissure of the lips until the angle of the flaps had descended about twelve mm. below the point from which it had been detached. This flap was fixed by sutures in its new position, and the sides of the space from which it had been taken were fixed in the same way. An incision was made above the portion of the vermillion border which had been raised from the lower lip, and a raw surface was made rrpon the corresponding edge of the upper lip to receive the flap thus raised, and this detached portion of vermillion boder was then drawn across towards the median line, and secured by sutures in its new position. The position of the angle of the mouth was improved, but it was still above its proper level. To assist in bringing it down I cut another triau gular flap below the angle of the mouth, its base including the commissure of the lips, and its apex extending toward the base of the lower jaw. Below the angle from which the apex had been cut, I made a straight incision downward to the extent of fifteen mm. and separated the sides of this incis- ions from each other, so as to form a new triangular flap. I then passed a loop of thread through the flap a little above its apex, and made traction so as to draw the apex of the flap down to the apex of the new triangular chasm. While this traction was made the flap was secured in its place by sutures, and the angle of the mouth was brought nearer to its proper position, but it still remained a little higher than that of the opposite side. The sutures were removed on the 15th, and the wounds healed by first intention. December 9tli. The right angle of the mouth being considerably nearer to the median line than the left, I performed another operation for the purpose of extending the commissure outward and backward. To accomplish this object, I made an incision through the upper lip at the junction of the vermilion border with the skin, extending through the whole thickness of the lip into the buccal cavity, beginning about one cm. from the angle of the mouth, and carried around the angle along the lower lip, terminating at a distance of eighteen mm. from the commissure of the lips. I then made another incision commencing three mm. below the augle of the mouth, and extending fifteen mm. horizontally outward and backward through the whole thickness of the cheek, the anterior and internal extremity of this incision corresponding with the wound by which the vermilion border was detached from the cheek. A blunt hook was then introduced through a portion of the vermilion border detached from the lower lip, seven mm. on the inner side of what had previously constituted the angle of the mouth, and was drawn through the horizontal incision in the cheek, and the corresponding por- tion of the detached vermilion border wras fixed in that position by a bead suture extending through the cheek eighteen mm. beyond the outer extremity of the wound. In this manner, the angle of the mouth was extended outward, and provided with vermilion border, mainly at the expense of the lower lip. The flap thus transplanted was secured in position by fine silk sutures. 23d. I made another effort to bring down the upper lip to its proper level. I made a horizontal incision immediately below the nose, extending on each side to a point vertically above the commissure