ILLUSTRATED MEDICINE AND SURGERY. This, the patient wears constantly, except at menstrual periods, keeping it in position by a girdle which presses upon its head, and at the same time sustains the parts about the incision. She has now left the hospital, but reports to me occasionally, and has been instructed how to allow the free escape of menstrual blood by the genu-pectoral position, and how to wash out the cavity with carbolized water, in case of any septic symptoms attending upon or following menstruation. This last maneuvre she has frequently practiced, and perfectly understands. Fig. 13, although a rough diagram, represents very accurately, I think, the present state of affairs. When this operation was adopted, I felt that it had helped my patient and myself out of a very difficult dilem- ma, but at the present time I do not feel at all satisfied with the status rerum. Should the patient not become pregnant, it is highly probable that all will go well with her until the menopause, but should pregnancy occur in the left horn, the right and a fatal issue would occur. At the moment of operation, and since that time, the propriety of penetrating the impervious cervical canal of the right horn, keeping it permanently open, closing the upper opening, dropping this horn into the pelvic cavity, and then closing the abdominal wound, has been carefully considered. As is so often the fact, under similar circumstances, the advisability of this course will very likely be immediately determined upon by many who have not had an opportunity of observing the ease. To those who have watched it with keen anxiety, through its various phases, much more difficulty will attend the decision. The patient is past forty; should conception occur the propriety of checking utero-gestation would be quite evident; the patient, who has gone through with a great deal of suffering, strenuously objects to interference with a condition which is perfectly satisfactory to her and the dangers attendant upon the steps referred to would be very considerable. So many years have elapsed since pregnancy occurred with her, that 1 think it highly improb- able that it will now take place after the fortieth year. Should it do so, I should feel myself called upon under present circumstances to put a stop to its progress. This, however, I should feel justi- fied in doing only once ; having once resorted to it as a therapeutic resource, 1 should feel it my duty to urge upon her a resort to those further surgical steps which I have mentioned. [ 22 ] c A. B. Abdominal walls. C. Glass plug. D. Uterine body fastened to the abdo- minal wulls. E. Uterus with pervious cervical canal. i\ Vagina. will assuredly be torn away from its abdominal moouings,