[ 153 ] PLASTIC OPERATIONS ON THE FACE.* BY ALFRED C. POST, M.D, LL.D., Emeritus Professor of Clinical Surgery and President of the Faculty in the Medical Department of the University of the City of New York, etc. Case I.—■Epithelioma of Face—Excision—Plastic Operation to fill up the Chasm made ly the Removal of the Tumor. Michael Kerns, aged G1; laborer; admitted into Presbyterian Hospital May 13, 1880; no his- tory of cancer in the family; no history of venereal disease. The patient’s habits had been temperate, and he had always enjoyed good health. Three years before his admission, a small pimple had appeared on his left cheek, about three cm. below the lower lid, and subsequently became covered with a dry scab, which frequently became detached. The new growth increased very gradually in size, without pain and without discharge. A year and a half before his admission the vision of the left eye became impaired, and after the lapse of a few months was almost entirely lost. At that time the morbid growth had reached the size of a silver quarter-dollar, without projecting much beyond the level of the integu- ment. Since that time the swelling had increased more rapidly both in circumference and in depth, giving rise to an offensive discharge, and being the seat of a dull pain. On admission to the hospital there was found a fungous growth of an irregular circular form, about 55 mm. in diameter, occupying the principal part of the left cheek, extending above to within 6 mm. of the lower lid, and below to a line midway between the ala of the nose and the angle of the mouth. The surface of the tumor presented marked irregularities, some portions being of a dull red color, and others of a purplish livid hue. There was no enlargement of lymphatic glands, and no sign of cancerous cachexia. Operation.—On May 15th, the patient having been etherized, after the administration of a tablespoonful of brandy by the mouth and 8 minims of Magendie’s solution of sulphate of morphia by hypodermic injection, I commenced the operation by a horizontal incision, separating the morbid growth from the lower lid ; I then made another horizontal incision below the tumor, and connected the two by vertical incisions before and behind. I then dissected up, from the adjacent parts, the dis- eased mass included between these four incisions, leaving a quadrilateral chasm, nearly of a square form. The two vertical incisions were then extended downward, the anterior one to a little below the base of the lower jaw, and the posterior one nearly as low as the base of the jaw. From the inferior Read before the American Medical Association at Richmond, Va., May 4, 1881.