THREE CASES OF COMPOUND COMPLICATED HARE-LIP, [ HI ] OCCURRING IN THE SAME FAMILY ; OPERATIONS FOR RESTORATION OF LIPS; WITH REMARKS ON THE OPERATION FOR CLEFT PALATE. BY JAMES L. LITTLE, M.D., Professor of Clinical and Operative Surgery in the New York Post-Graduate Medical School; Professor of Surgery in the Medical Department of the University of Vermont; Surgeon to St. Luke's and St. Vincent’s Hospitals, New York City, die., dc. The cases will be described in the order in which they came under my observation: William Bocock:, aged 21. John Bocock, aged 9. Charles Bocock, aged 18. No hereditary tendency can be traced in father or mother’s family. There were four boys and live girls. All the boys were born with hare-lip, while no deformity existed in any of the girls. The order in which the children were born is as follows: 1. William. Compound complicated hare-lip. 2. A girl with no deformity. 3. Charles. Compound complicated hare-lip. A spindle-celled sarcoma made its appearance on the left side of the perineum in 1878, which I removed. It recurred, and I again removed it in October, 1882. 4. Girl with no deformity. 5. Girl with no deformity. G. John. Compound complicated hare-lip; absence of ring-finger of right hand. 7. Girl with no deformity. 8. Girl with no deformity. 9. Boy with single hare-lip, who died in infancy. These patients presented this deformity in almost the worst possible form, the arrest of devel- opment occurring at a very early period of foetal life. The inter-maxillary bone in each case was dis- tinct, being ununited to the superior maxillaries, and was continuous with the nasal septum and vomer. This projecting bone was partially covered by a tag of integument, which was continuous with that of the tip of the nose. In John (Case II), this bone contained two well-developed incisor teeth, while in William and Charles (Cases I and III), there was but one. There was a complete absence of both the hard and soft palate in all the cases, and in Case III the fissure was unusually wide (4 cm.). Articulation was so imperfect that they could be understood with the greatest difficulty. Operations.— Case. I.—William. Uranoplasty was performed at St. Luke’s Hospital on Feb- ruary 9th, 1878. The sides of the fissure in the hard palate being imperfectly developed, and running obliquely upwards and inwards, the only operation that could be performed was the dissecting of the soft parts from the bone, from above downwards, and allowing them to meet at If Fig. 113.