ILLUSTRATED MEDICINE AND SURGERY. l 38 ] operation was done for the purpose of holding the lid in place. By thus raising the flap, a raw surface was left which had been occupied by the part of the flap below the dotted line. To till this, and to hold up the lid, an incision BEFG was made and the flap dissected up. It was then turned at a right angle and stitched to the margin of the space to be tilled, BE coming to BC (winch had been raised to height of dotted line), EF to lower part of DC, GF to cheek part (as distinguished from flap part) of BC. By dragging the flap BEFG into its new position, the raw surface, which would have been left at the part from which it was taken, was nearly closed, the portion of the flap G having been drawn to B, and the closure was completed by stitching GF to BE. As this left the skin of the cheek below FE puckered, the triangle FILE was removed and FI1 stitched to FBI. The result of this operation was so good that a nearly similar one was done on the left side. October 3, 187S.—After these operations the corneal haziness nearly disappeared, and the patient was able to read the finest print. December 19, 1S78.—Operation for relief of deformity of mouth, Fig. 28. An incision passing entirely through the upper lip was made from A to B. This flap was dragged down so that A could be brought to E, leaving a triangular space where AB had been. Incisions EACD were made and all the tissue between AE and margin of left side of lip removed. The point A of the lip flap was then stitched to the angle of the mouth E, and the triangular flap ECD, which had been dissected up, fitted into the triangle left by the pulling down of lip flap, C coming to B, DC to upper edge of AB and EC to lower edge of AB. The raising of flap ECD of course left a raw surface at this part which was easily closed by stitching upper part of CD to CA. June 20,1879.—Operations to relieve deformity of inner canthi. The overhanging skin at each canthus was slit toward but not as far as median line, the incision dividing also the conjunctiva on the under surface of fold and the tissues between. The edges of the incision then separated, thus enlarging the palpebral fismre. Along the edges the skin was stitched to conjunctiva. November 1, 1S79.—The patient being very solicitous to have a nose made, I explained to him that the usual operation of taking a flap from neighboring or distant parts would be useless as there was no bony frame-work to hold it in position, and that it would consequently shrivel to a mere knob