TRIGT1 OPE YT OS IS BARBAE. [ 139 ] points gradually enlarging and forming rings which later on, as the disease advances, run into each other with obliteration of the lines of junction. The inflammation accompanying this may be sufficient to in- duce the formation of tubercles and nodules of some size, which may remain as such for a long time, or undergo early suppuration. In Eczema Barbae we have a diffuse inflammation of a .more superficial character with a dipping clown or continuation of it into the hair follicles; the root-sheaths become swollen and loosened from the abundant exudation that forms in the follicle. The hairs, as a rule, are readily extracted, and come out with their root-sheaths adhering to them. The hair appears to have a thick white envelope surrounding its deeper extremity, in marked contrast to the hairs in trichophy- tosis, which are usually extracted free from the root-sheath, and often broken, leaving a portion of the root still within the follicle. The diagnosis may further be confirmed by microscopical examination of the hairs, which in the latter affection exhibit the parasite. Failure to find the parasite, however, must not be taken as absolute proof that the disease is not parasitic, as it does not necessarily involve all the hairs of the affected part. In the advanced stages, too, it may be absent, having already been destroyed by the efforts of nature, as sometimes happens. In the Sycosis of Robinson the inflammation is deeper, and commencing between the hair follicles, subsequently involves them. Etiology.—As is now well known, the cause of Trichophytosis is a fungus termed the Trich- ophyton tonsurans, which having lodged on the skin, immediately makes the hair-root and follicle its principal abode. This fungus consists of exceedingly minute spores, together with a more or less abundant mycelium. The spores are in all probability the agents of contagion. After they have gained a foothold in the follicle and have commenced to invade the hair, commencing in the softer portions of the root, we find that they gradually work their way toward the surface, thoroughly infil- trating the shaft of the hair in their progress. The portion of the hair within the follicle, supported as it is by the follicle walls, apparently maintains its integrity, but as soon as the fungus reaches the por- tions of the hair-shaft that are without the follicle and unsupported, their destructive influence becomes more manifest. This is shown by rupture and fracture of the hair, the shaft breaking off at a ver’ short distance from the surface of the skin. This condition is sometimes noticed in connection with Trichophytosis barbae, but much more frequently and distinctly in Trichophytosis capitis. This latter affection, however, is confined almost exclusively to children, never in our own experience having been encountered in adults. As noticed in our third case, Trichophytosis barbae may co-exist with other forms of the affection. The modes by which the disease may be contracted or conveyed are quite numerous. In the first place it is most frequently conveyed through the unclean implements of the barber. The razor has most generally been accused as the medium of communication ; but, we think it more probable that the lather-brush is the offending instrument. The barber-shop, however, is not the only source of contagion ; theoretically, it may be contracted from any form of ringworm. Personally, we have known of its having been contracted by a gentleman from his child, who was suffering from a ringworm of the scalp; in another instance, by a gentleman from a case of trichophytosis genito-ferno- ris; and third, by a hostler from a horse, that he was in the habit of grooming. The occurrence of trichophytosis in the horse and other lower animals, has been specially noticed and studied in France. Complications.—In persons predisposed to plastic or purulent inflammation, these features may become quite pronounced, while those who are subject to Eczema may develop it in connection with