CASES OF RUPTURE OF THE CHOROID. [ 146 ] described by Yon Graefe in 1854, many such cases were recorded as traumatic irido-elioroiditis, hem- orrhage into the retina, and so on. That the blow which gave rise to such an extensive laceration must have been very great in force is shown by the rupture of the iris both at its attached and ciliary borders, as well as by the mydraisis and paralysis of accommodation, to say nothing of the temporarily grave constitutional dis- turbance produced by it. In regard to the treatment, I may be allowed to say that the comparatively good recovery in this case may, perhaps, be in a measure attributed to the active treatment employed. Be that as it may, there can be no doubt in any unprejudiced mind as to the propriety of such treatment, when the result of the blow is apt to be followed by grave inflammatory symptoms in the iris ciliary body, vitreous and choroid. Knapp, in his paper already referred to, says very positively: “ Wherever such inflammatory changes, from whatever cause, have occurred, we deem it our duty to institute a serious treatment, of the usefulness of which every unprejudiced ophthalmic surgeon is satisfied. Why should it be ineffi- cient or superfluous in cases where traumatic irido-choroiditis is complicated by rupture of the choroid?” Knapp indeed reports one case which terminated in complete recovery. It would be going beyond the limits of this paper to enter into any discussion as to the theory of the mechanism of these choroidal ruptures. If any of my hearers are not already familiar with the views advanced, I would refer them to Knapp’s article in which he discusses this subject. I will only say that in this case, the view entertained by Knapp, that the rupture takes place at a point opposite, or distant from the point of injury by cuntre couj?, finds an exception, since the transverse part of the solution of continuity was near the point of injury, and might more properly be called direct or immediate, than by contre coup. I am, however, far from denying that this injury does occur as he suggests. May it not be, however, that when the force of impact from a small foreign body is directly on the globe, the injury is direct, and when the force of blow is transmitted, so as to overcome the elasticity of the membrane, it is received upon the bony surrounding of the eye, rather than directly upon the globe itself. The retention so long in the cul-de-sac of the agent which caused the injury remaining un- discovered until by accident it came to light, gave me no little chagrin. With that wisdom which comes from hind-thought rather than fore-thought, I now think that the absence of certain symptoms, when I first saw the case, should have led me to infer that the missile had struck the globe, and not the eyelids or surroundings of the eye. Had the latter been the case, there would almost certainly have been considerable swelling and discoloration of the eye; for we all know how easily a black and blue eye is induced, even by an inconsiderable violence. If I had taken this fact into consideration, I should very likely have sought for and found the foreign body, which, however, did no harm by its residence lor so long a time between the lid and eyeball.