[ 06 ] TWO CASES OF GUMMOUS IRITIS. BY F. R. STURGIS, M.D., Ex-Professor of Venereal Diseases in the Medical Department of the University of the City of New York, dec., die. These two histories are given on account of the rarity of the affection and the important conse- quences which it entails. Case I.—S. 13., jet. 30, entered Charity Hospital August 30, 1874. Initial lesion occurred in 1871, followed by papular, papulo-squainous and pustular syphilides of the skin, alopecia capitis and osteocopic pains.. She had two miscarriages during the early months of pregnancy. At time of entrance she had a superficial ulcerating syphilide of the anterior nares and upper lip, and shortly after, September 5, she developed a double kerato-iritis and cyclitis, with violent pho- tophobia, lachrymation and supra-orbital pain. Y. reduced to perception of light. Under active treatment all symptoms improved until October 5, when the irido-cyclitis returned in both eyes, and within 48 hours a growth was perceived [PI. xi. Fig. 66] in the right eye, apparently springing from the uvea iridis, occluding the pupil. Y. R. E. = 0. Y. L. E. = perception of light. Associated with this was an intense hemicrania. No ophthalmoscopic examination could be then made. Mercurial inunction and large doses of the iodide of potassium caused the disappearance of the gumma. An ophthalmoscopic examination showed an atrophic stage of choroiditis in both eyes. Y. not taken from this time from oversight. Later on she had several relapses of irido-cyclitis, but no recurrence of gummata. She subsequently left the hospital much improved, but not well of her syphilis. (Note. She died two years afterwards in the Hospital, of syphilitic cachexia, but had had no return of the gumma iridis.) Case II.—M. C., jet. 35, entered Charity Hospital September 30, 1875. Initial lesion appeared September, 1873, followed by papular and pustulo-crustaceous syphilides and alopecia. At entrance she showed a pustulo-crustaceous syphilide, one of the ulcerations being seated at the outer canthus of the left eye. This organ also showed a well-marked iritis, together with remains of a conjunctivitis, attended with intense lachrymation, photophobia and pain in the supra-orbital and temporal regions. Pupil L. E. was occluded; Y. = 0; Y. R. E. = l. On dilatation the occlusion was found to be due to a gumma [PI. xi. Fig. 67] which sprang by a broad base from the uvea iridis. K. I. internally and Ung. Hg. externally, caused the disappearance of the growth in three weeks’ time. An ophthalmoscopic ex- amination showed no choroiditis nor retinitis.