EXCISION OF TI1E SHOULDER JOINT. [ no ] from the bone by periosteal elevator and scalpel, and retained. The detachment of the periosteum was a difficult process on account of the large amount of osteophytic growth which was present. The long head of the biceps had disappeared. The glenoid cavity had become obliterated and was tilled up by a granu- lating mass, and no caries of the portion of the joint could be detected. The head of the humerus was protruded with some difficulty, and the section was made with a chain saw about an inch below the surgical neck. The specimen removed was carious at its posterior aspect, where there was a small undetached sequestrum, and anteriorly there were deep excavations behind the tuberosities. The wound was thoroughly irrigated with a earbolized lotion, and a drainage tube passed entirely through the cavity and brought out posteriorly through one of the previously-existing sinuses. The wound was closed with wire sutures and dressed externally with iodoform, a pad of earbolized oakum surrounding the whole. The arm was extended upon a board splint at right angles from the body for the first few days ; subsequently it was simply supported in a sling under the elbow and fore-arm. June 20. All the su- tures removed, and union by the first intention was found to have taken place except at the point of en- trance of the drainage tube Fig. 105 Fig. 106. at the upper portion of the wound. The large cavity left after the removal of the bone was kept clean and disinfected by earbolized lotions injected through the tube. The highest tem- perature reached was 101| on the fourth day, which fell to 99| on the fifth day, and never exceeded 100§ subsequently. After the line of incision had healed several sinuses formed in the cicatrix, probably due to the retention of some discharge after the removal of the drainage tube. These tracks were laid open and healed from the bottom, except one through which a small quantity of serum still escapes. All the pre-existing openings have gradually closed. Result of the operation : The patient’s general health is restored; he eats heartily, sleeps well, and is in good flesh. The functions of the forearm are perfect, and its muscles well developed. Motion between humerus and scapula limited; can abduct the elbow from the side nine inches; has consider- able backward motion, but has not much power to push the arm forward beyond the plane of the body. The man is able to lift heavy weights and to pursue his business. He has a useful member but an impaired one. He was rapidly running down and could not have waited for a cure by natural pro- cesses, even if that had been possible, and the choice lay between amputation at the shoulder or excision of that joint. I chose the latter, and the result justifies the procedure.