A LARGE RECURRENT PAPILLOMA OE THE PHARYNX. BY J. 0. ROE, M.D., ROCHESTER, N. Y., Fellow of the American Laryngological Association; Member of the American Medical Association; of the Medical Society of the State of New York, &c. Mrs. Thomas Tousey, jet. 61, was referred to me by Dr. Carpenter of Pittsford, February ldth, 1882, with the following history. Her throat had been very sensitive for many years. One year ago she noticed a sensation of dryness in the throat, followed six months later by slight dysphagia, which progressed until she was unable to take anything but liquids, and these only with great difficulty. Four months before consulting me her voice began to have a muffled nasal sound, which, when I saw her, was marked. Respiration was unaffected. Her general health has been poor for ten or fifteen years past, and recently she has failed rapidly, owing to her inability to take sufficient food. About six weeks before I saw her, Dr. Carpenter observed a small growth in the lower part of the pharynx, which increased rapidly in size; indeed, at the time I saw her, the tumor had grown so large as almost to fill the lower pharyngeal space. It involved the entire posterior wall of the pharynx from opposite the lower border of the soft palate (slightly higher on the left than the right side), to nearly the upper orifice of the oesophagus, about opposite the upper border of the cricoid cartilage. It involved both posterior pillars of the fauces, extending to their anterior border, but not any portion of the larynx. Its right side was a little thicker and more projecting than the left. It had a roughened, slightly lobular appearance, its meshes being filled with a slimy, tenaceous exudation (vide Plate XI.). On account of the rapid growth of the tumor and the dysphagia I advised its immediate removal, which was done February 16, 1882, with the galvano-cautery. I had hoped to encircle the growth with the galvano-cautery wire and remove it entire, but was unable to do so, on account of the breadth of the base.