EXTRANEOUS MICROSCOPIC MATTER IN ANIMAL FLUIDS. L 93 ] varieties. The first was a hyaline alga which would be well presented if the cells were obliterated from e. It had a diameter of ^i^th of an inch, and responded affirmatively to the pressure test; however, on careful focusing, I discerned an empty cell, the specimen evidently representing an alga with the endochrome expunged. The second alga is shown in e and f. The specimen e was first noticed, and its semblance to a tube-cast is sharply drawn ; here, also, the pressure test gave affirmative results. It will be' noticed that the cells are granular, while the other portions of the specimen are hyaline ; this state excited suspicion and led to further search, which resulted in the finding of f. In that the cells were green and the structure branching, which, of course, destroyed the possibility of its being a cast, and simultaneously identified it as Ilomospora mutabilis, one of the Palmellacese. I afterward discovered that I intro- duced these products into my specimen on my dipping-rod, which was cleansed in water containing them. Fig. 91. — Oil (a) is known by its high refractory power, its glo- bular shape and single, narrow, dark border. This border-line distinguishes it from air-bubbles, in which three well defined rings are seen,—a light interior and exterior ring, with a dark inter- mediate ring. In urine, oil may be diagnosticated from chyluria by the large size of the globules and from milk (y), which is sometimes added by dishonest or hysterical people by the absence of colostrum corpuscles (y, y). Muscular tissue (c) is greatly changed l>y soaking in fluids ; nevertheless, it sufficiently maintains its original character for recognition. In the application of mustard poultices for counter irritation, oftentimes a portion will escape and dry, and then be scattered in the urine or sputa as dust ib). This occurred in a case under my observation. The general aspect of mustard is allied to arrowroot; the starch granules are about the same size and appearance; again, potato starch (f), bean starch (<?), maize (A), rice (i) and baked wheaten bread (j) may find access to the saliva and urine. In the last object (j) the starch granules are broken, and changed almost beyond identity by baking. All varieties of starch are quickly identified by the iodine test. A drop of the tincture may be applied to the stage and submitted to a gentle heat, and if starch be present the granules will become purple or blue. The addition of yeast to the urine is betrayed by yeast cells {lc) in different stages of multiplication. "With the practitioner of general medicine, little or no diagnostic or prognostic value is imposed upon the microscope beyond the recognition of the characters of urinary tube-casts ; hence it is that he should be conversant with the contaminating substances standing in relation with or resembling these casts. We have cited sufficiently in detail, I believe, the guiding features of these substances to