ILLUSTRATED MEDICINE AND SURGERY. The knife used was constructed with a curved stem, the blade turning laterally so that it could be swept around behind the tumor, peeling it off, as it were, from the pharynx, but, owing to the friability of the tumor, it came away in fragments. No hemorrhage followed, and but little inflammation or pain, although no anaesthetic was given. Immediate improvement in swallowing followed, and solids could be taken quite readily. March 7th.—The tumor has been growing again rapidly, and has attained to nearly half its original size. Owing to the absence of hemorrhage I now removed the entire tumor with a pair of curved scissors, and cauterized the surface with fuming nitric acid, and later on with chromic acid, which was applied about once a week for a month, with the effect of keeping the growth in check, but not destroying its vitality. I then decided to follow up this treatment more vigorously. Accordingly 1 applied the chromic acid every second day to all parts of the growth, scraping off the slough each time before making a fresh application, and removing with the scissors any portion which resisted the action of the acid, or seemed to grow in spite of it. After five cauterizations the patient’s throat became so sore as to necessitate an intermission of treatment for ten days. At the end of this time inspection of the throat showed what appeared to be an outgrowth of the tumor, but it proved to be only a slough, which I removed, leaving a clean surface beneath. The only remaining portion of the growth was a small nodule on the inner surface of the right posterior pillar above, and at the lower portion of the pharynx. These I cauterized with the chromic acid, and they have disappeared, leaving the pharynx free from any evidence of re-appearance of the growth. The diagnosis which was made prior to the removal of the growth, viz. : true papilloma, was fully confirmed by the subsequent microscopic examinations, the details of which it is unnecessary to state, as the character of these growths is so well known. Remarks.—The behavior of this growth in regard to hemorrhage is quite exceptional to that of ordinary papillomata, as, owing to their vascularity, free bleeding is the rule on cutting or scarifying them. It was for this reason, and from the extent of surface which it covered, that I used the galvano- cautery at the first operation, so as to avoid depleting the patient, which it was feared direct excision without the cautery would be liable to do. In this connection I would call attention to the superiority of chromic acid over all other caustic preparations for the destruction of indurated tissue or of the base of tumors after abscission. It causes but little pain, even when applied to a raw surface, while the application of other caustics to denuded surfaces is exceedingly painful, and is followed by considerable inflammation. It seems to have a drying and shriveling effect upon the tissue to which it is applied, and at the same time to exercise a healthful alterative action on the tissues beneath. Note. — Since the above was written the growth has slowly reappeared at the lower portion of the pharynx and entrance of the oesophagus, attended with increased dysphagia. [ ™ ]