INTELLECTUAL MONOMANIA, WITH MENTAL DEPRESSION. t 136 1 under such a defect of reason as either not to know the nature and quality of the act he was commit- ting, or not to know that it was wrong. Morbid impulse will not therefore longer he an excuse, nor will a delusion unless such delusion would, if true, justify the act. The most that Dubourque could urge in extenuation was that the women were “ talking” about him. He certainly knew the nature and consequence of his acts, and knew that they were contrary to law. Undoubtedly, therefore, he ought to sutler punishment. And I would ask, in conclusion, whether or not the corporation that allows a lunatic to go at large when he has once been acquitted of a murderous assault on the ground of insanity, cannot be mulcted in damages for its open and flagrant disregard of the public safety. The disposition shown by juries to pronounce lunatics sane is doubtless the natural outgrowth of the asylum abuses, which are such a blot upon our national reputation. It might, however, have been expected that sheriff’s juries, selected as they are presumed to be from a superior class of the com- munity and endowed with intelligence above that of the common jury, would have been superior to the influence of such a factor. But experience shows that they are not; for within a few days past they have pronounced a man sane and competent to manage his business who is in the initial stage of general paralysis of the insane, and who is quite certain, unless soon restrained by force, to ruin his affairs and perpetrate some act of violence. Here the claims of the man to protection against himself and the still more imperative claims of his family were with that restricted vision peculiar to narrow- minded persons, unheeded in presence of the more obvious fact that they were discharging an alleged insane person from an asylum. The alienists and neurologists who, after thorough examination, testified that the man was the subject of general paralysis of the insane and that he wras hopelessly incurable, can well afford to let time act as the arbiter between them and ignorance. In the meantime, the person, the family, and the property of the insane individual suffer till such time as his lunacy becomes so palpable that even sciolistic commissioners, so-called experts, and sheriff’s juries can no longer doubt its existence. Even as these lines are being written the person in question, with maniacal tri- umph, has published an advertisement in the daily newspapers which is of itself sufficient evidence of his lunacy. Besides, he has made a murderous menace with a loaded pistol against a man who was doing some work about his house, and who did not do it quickly enough to suit him. Surely it would seem that something more than the verdict of a sheriff’s jury is necessary to protect the community from such people.