INTELLECTUAL MONOMANIA, WITH MENTAL DEPRESSION. ship, he assaulted one of the workmen whom he accused of robbing him, and was, in consequence, sent to the prison on Blackwell’s Island. On his release he declared that he had been incarcerated by the men who had stolen his inheritance. Subsequently he stabbed a policeman, was again arrested, but was, strange to say, discharged from custody and allowed to go at large on the ground of insanity. A few days after his attack on the people in Fourteenth Street I examined him at the Jefferson Market prison, in which he was confined. He kept his eyes fixed upon the floor, only raising them when I asked him some question, and then only for a moment. His expression w7as dull and stupid, his extremities cold, his pulse 65 and weak. His face was somewhat swollen, and his forehead was marked by the deep transverse lines so often seen in lunatics of his type. In answer to my inquiries he said that he was 37 years old, and that he had frequent attacks of pain in the head and vertigo. At first when I asked him why he had stabbed the women, he shrugged his shoulders and muttered something about their having been talking against him. He refused to tell w7hat they had said, remarking that he did not understand English. When the question was put to him in French he shrugged his shoulders again, but said nothing. I told him that one of his victims would probably die (she died at just about that time, though I did not then know the fact), and that if she did it would probably go hard with him. To all of which he made no reply, but looked the picture of perfect indifference, lie then wrote his name, <k Ernest Dubourque,” on a piece of paper which I gave him for the purpose. On other things than his crimes he talked glibly enough, both in French and English, but as soon as’they were mentioned he shrugged his shoulders and said he did not understand. Finally, he declared that he knew nothing about the matter, and did not know for what he was in prison. My interview led me to the conclusion that Dubourque was a lunatic, and sufficiently shrewd to pretend ignorance of his conduct. At first his cunning was not so well marked, for he admitted that he had stabbed the women because they had been talking about him, but as I questioned him further his mind seemed to awaken, partially, to the idea that my inquiries were hostile to him, and that to answer them would get him into further trouble. The clinical history of Dubourque, aside from his personal appearance and manner, is of such a character as to show that he is the subject of intellectual monomania with mental depression. His insanity, as well as that of his father, appears to have been developed by disappointment that they had not obtained a fortune b}7 the death of the California relative. So strong was the idea—for which it appears there had never been the least foundation—that he was rich, that when he died they con- tracted the additional illusion that he had made a will in their favor, that the will had been destroyed by the government, and that his property had been turned into the United States treasury. For several years Ernest Dubourque and his father had walked Broadway with placards on their backs, wishing by this means to make the world acquainted with their supposed wrongs. It was a clear case of the folte a deux, to which attention has within a recent period been so pointedly directed. The death of the old man appears to have aggravated Ernest’s condition. He became aggressive, he quarreled with his fellow-workmen under the idea that they were attempting to cheat him, and stabbed a police- man for some fancied indignity. Finally, he committed the numerous assaults resulting in one death for which he is now in prison. Under the new code it is difficult to see how he can escape punishment for his crime. Under that code, in order to avoid responsibility, it must be shown that he was laboring [135]