ILLUSTRATED MEDICINE AND SURGERY. [ 88 ] elongated to their normal length by the constant use of an elastic tractile force, and therefore do not need division. I published this law many years since in the second edition of my Mauual on Club-foot, and a very extensive practical application of the principle during the past ten years has proved to me its value. In this case the law was clearly exemplified, for she had applied every device invented for the relief of club-foot for three years without the slightest improvement in the direction of her feet; indeed, an increase of the deformity by the callosities produced by pressure over the bony prominences had taken place. These finally became so painful that all treatment had been abandoned for the past year, and she depended altogether upon her crutches for locomotion. The callosities had all subsided, and her feet were therefore in good condition for operation. I operated on the 23d of May, 1882, assisted by Dr. Forero, of Colombia, S. A., my son, Dr. Lewis Hall Sayre and Dr. Robert Taylor. After the patient was fully under the influence of chloro- form, I divided subcutaneously the tendo Achillis and plantar fascia of each foot with the loss of oidy a drop or two of blood, closed the wounds with adhesive plaster, covered the foot and ankle with a thick layer of cotton wool, which was secured by a roller bandage, and then, by the application of some considerable manual force I brought the feet immediately into their normal position, and retained them there by the application of my foot-board, adhesive plaster and a roller-bandage.* The entire dressing was perfectly completed while the patient was still under the influence of the anaesthetic. No constitutional trouble followed, and at the end of eleven days the dressings were removed for the first time, all the wounds were perfectly united, without the formation of a drop of pus. The new tissue between the severed ends of the Achilles tendons (more than an inch in length) had already become so firmly organized that very slight movements of the heels were quite perceptible when the patient made voluntary contractions of her gastrocnemii muscles, showing that adhesion had already taken place. The feet were again dressed, as^after the operation, for another week, when all dressings were removed, and the feet and limbs treated every day by massage and passive movements for half an hour, and the application of the Farradaic current for five minutes. Four weeks from the date of the operation she began to walk with the aid of a “ Hudson's Shoe,”f see Plate XIV. Daily manipulations and the application of electricity were continued until July 5th, when she could walk without any support, and the muscles of the leg had become quite prominently developed, see Plate XIV. This young lady called on me August 14th, eleven weeks after the operation—had walked over two miles that morning, and the increase in the size of the muscles of the legs was astonishing. She still continued the massage and electricity. * See description in author’s Manual of Club-foot, page 39. t For descriptions see autlior’s Manual Club-foot, 4th ed.