ILLUSTRATED MEDICINE AND SURGERY. [ 40 ] In Fig. 30 is seen the finger, ready to be placed in position, with the lower half of the last phalanx denuded of skin, and the flaps thrown outward, ready for application to the face. Fig. 31 shows a transverse horizontal section of part of the face. X indicates the nasal opening (it should not be closed at the lewer part, as it communicated with the naso-pharyngeal space). AB and CD mark the incisions backward and inward toward the median line, making flaps on each side, BAE and DCF which were turned inward. The skin from surfaces AE and FC was dissected off, so that each flap had two raw surfaces, AB and AE and CD and CF. In Fig. 32 can be seen how the finger flaps and face flaps came together. AA'B is the line of junction of the under surface of finger flap and raw surface of side of finger with the face flap. A'B being the part of face flap from which the skin had been removed, and which, being turned somewhat inwards, came in contact with the side of the finger, and not with the under surface of the finger flap. The hand and arm were then fastened to the jacket and helmet by plasters and bandages. The patient was fed through a tube introduced beneath the hand at the right corner of the mouth, until the finger was amputated. The jacket and helmet proving irksome were removed on the sixth day, and the hand was afterwards held in place by adhesive plaster and roller bandages. As the finger was nourished through the digital arteries, and probably but little through the adhesion between the face and finger, it was thought necessary to compel a proper supply between the face and the finger. On January 3, 1880, an elastic ligature was passed round the finger opposite the lower part of the first phalanx. On account of pain this had to be removed in a few hours. Jan. 5, 18S0. The end of the finger has not united to the pocket. From retraction of the pocket flap and slipping down of finger the tip is exposed to view. Jan. 8. A needle armed with a silver wire was passed deeply through the right side of the finger beneath the digital artery, and the two ends of the wire attached to a Wood’s varicocele clamp. Jan. 1G. Wire removed. Jan. 22. Left digital artery secured. Jan. 25. Left wire removed. Jan. 27. An incision was made down to the bone on the sides and palmar surface of finger. After this had been done the finger became pale, and the amputation was postponed. Jan. 30. With the assistance of Dr. Sayre the finger was amputated, with knife and bone forceps, at the middle of the first phalanx. The stump of the finger attached to face bled freely, showing that the circulation was good. The part of the first phalanx attached to the finger was bent at right angles, so that the amputated surface looked backward, the part of the first phalanx attached to finger thus forming a septum for the nose, the first joint forming the tip. Oct. 8, 1880. The finger tip now lies in front of the space between the inner canthi. The matrix was not destroyed as was supposed, as the nail has partly reappeared. It was softened with caustic potash, removed with forceps, and the matrix scraped. Dec. 28. The skin over the site of the matrix was removed, and the tip of the last phalanx cut off with bone forceps. A small flap was then slid down, and fastened on the denuded finger tip. Since the above note several minor operations have been done which it is not necessary to mention in detail. At the present time the finger has sunk downward a little, so that the lower eyelids are somewhat dragged upon. The amputation of finger should have been done nearer the hand, as the tip of the nose is not prominent enough, partly from atrophy of that part of the first phalanx attaehed to finger, and partly from the sinking backward and atrophy of the Huger itself.