ABSENCE OF THE UP FEE LIP. [ 13 ] covered with lint moistened with collodion. The patient bore the operation well, and was in a good condition at its close. July 3d. There is a considerable separation of the flaps in the median line. There is sloughing of a considerable portion of right side of lip. Surface thoroughly washed with carbolic lotion. 20th. Since the separation of the sloughs, the flaps have been supported by strips of adhesive plaster, and the intermediate space has been tilled by granulation. 25th. There is firm union between the flaps by a narrow band with a notch below, and a small hole above. There is also a slight notch at the lower margin of the right ala nasi. Sept. 9th. I performed another operation as follows. I made an incision along the base of the lower jaw, commencing at the median line, and extending to the right to a point about three cm. oeyond a perpendicular line falling from the right angle of the mouth. The incision was then curved upward and backward to the horizontal level of the angle of the mouth, and thence upward and forward to the junction of the upper lip with the ala nasi, and thence forward along the upper margin of the lip into the vacant space which was left by the sloughing which followed the previous opera tion. This incision was extended deeply into the subcutaneous tissue along the base of the jaw, and when it passed through the cheek, it was extended through the mucous membrane into the buccal cavity. At the inner extremity of the large flaps included within the limits which have been described, a portion of the free margin of the right side of the lip was detached by an oblique incision from this isthmus, leaving a flap about twelve mm. in length, and five mm. in breadth at its right extremity and tapering to nothing at the left. A corresponding surface was prepared for the reception of this oblique flap, by dividing the left portion of the lip to a similar extent. The cicatricial tissue between the right and left portions of the lip was then dissected out. The right division of the lip, with the large curved flap to which it was attached, was then drawn to the median line, and attached by two pin sutures and a number of fine silk sutures, in such a position that the small oblique flap con- nected with the right segment of the lip overlapped the denuded portion of margin of the left seg- ment, and was placed in accurate coaptation with it. In this way, the whole of the face margin of the lip was made continuous, without any appearance of a notch. After securing the lip in its place, the whole circumference of the flap was closely attached by sutures to the surrounding parts, without undue tension at any point. All the parts were then washed with carbolic acid lotion, one part to forty. 15th. Pins and sutures removed. Union throughout, except at two points, one a cm. from the columna, and a second smaller surface a little further to the right. The parts were supported by strips of adhesive plaster. The result of this operation was entirely successful, but when the parts were healed, there was a marked deficiency of the vermillion border of the right side of the upper lip, and a superfluity of the corresponding border of the lower lip. On the 14th of October I operated, with the hope of remedying this condition. A point was selected about seventeen mm. above the right angle of the mouth, and another point at the junction of the skin with the vermillion border of the lower lip, two cm. to the left of the right angle of the mouth. At each of these points a small pin was inserted through the skin, while a third point was selected in the cheek six mm. below a horizontal line extending back from the second point indicated and four cm. to the right of the angle of the mouth, and a third pin was inserted at that point. These pins were designed to mark the outlines of a triangular flap, whose base