ILLUSTRATED MEDICINE AND SURGERY. [ 92 1 apparently descended into tlie muscular tissue of the larynx, I found an object which is well depicted in the upper segment of Fig. f. The close resemblance that it bore to muscular tissue, led me to carefully examine it. The carmine solution was quickly absorbed, and rendered the structure quite distinct. The general appearance was not unlike striated muscular fibre, but from the ends fine curled, thread-like projections weie seen, which weie lecogmzed to be the spiral vessels of a vegetable growth. This at once dissipated all doubt of its origin, although its source remained a mystery. Other specimens reflected a structure as shown in the lower part of Fig. f. The cells be- tween the upper and lower segment are the cells of vegetable parenchyma ; the oblong cells below, epidermic tissue; and the cells to the right and left marked double f iff), stomata, or breathing pores, in the epidermis. The whole proved to be finely comminuted straw from the patient’s bed. Fig. 90.—Various vegetable pro- ducts enter into the composition of ani- mal fluids in a partially disintegrated condition. This is most frequent in saliva and sputa, having origin in the ingesta. A fevr of the forms of partially disintegrated vegetable tissue (a) found chiefly in saliva, resemble pavement epithelium, but may be differentiated by the fibro-cellular bands, the absence of alveolar tissue, and the non-action of liquor potassae on the tissue. This, and also leptothrix buccaiis (a, a) are distinguished from pulmonary elastic tissue by the variance of their diameters, and also by the condition of the ends of the fibres. In (a) the diameter is greater and the ends frayed out; in (a, a) the fibre is finer and its ends pointed. Pulmonary tissue, it will be remembered, is possessed of square extremities. Leaves of tea (b) are found in saliva, and not rarely in the urine, with a mission of deception which a hysterical patient prides herself is “ such an easy matter.” The cells are known by the large mass of dark granular matter which they contain, and the association with them of the fibro-vascular filaments. Isolated epidermis (c) from plants is known from epithelial cells by the absence of a distinct nucleus, their angular outline and irregular margins. Coloring matter is rapidly diffused through the tissue without developing new traits of structure. In the seasons of foliage, many forms of vegetable hairs separate from plants and float into our fluids under examination. The types are varying, but from the buoyancy of the stellate (d) type they become the most common form met with. Although they are not to be confounded with any other ingredient found in animal fluids, they oftentimes puzzle one on their initial introduction. Nitric acid increases their transparency, but elicits-no distinct structure. Fresh water algse exceptionally engender difficulty by their assimilation to tube-casts. I have met two Fig. 90.