INTELLECTUAL M 0 NOMA NLA, WET If MENTAL DEPRESSLON. uously resisted by the individual, but which usually eventually obtain a complete mastery over his reason. The sense of hearing is that which is generally the seat of those false perceptions, which appear either as vague uncertain sounds or isolated words, or as well-defined and entirely coherent sentences. These are in the form ot threats, or warnings, or advice as to the best way of escaping from imaginary enemies or dangers. The sense of sight is not so frequently affected, though occasion- ally the patient sees a policeman or other person in search of him in every one who looks at him a little closely. In order to escape from these imaginary enemies he makes complaint to the officials or seeks safety in flight, or may even proceed to the extent of perpetrating suicide or homicide. Some- times the individual labors under the delusion that organized bodies of men have banded together for the purpose of destroying him or of inflicting severe bodily injury upon him. These may in his imagination be the whole police force, or the clergy, or the medical profession, or the masonic frater- nity, or the members of some one nationality. A patient of mine was sure that all the clergymen had entered into a conspiracy to “ pray him into hell.” lie went to the churches of all religious denomi- nations to hear what the preachers had to say about him, and discovered adroit allusions to himself and covert invocations to God for his eternal damnation in the most harmless and platitudinous expres- sions. He wrote letters to various pastors of churches denouncing them for their uncharitable conduct towards him, and threatening them with bodily damage if they persisted in their efforts to secure the destruction of his soul. Another was constantly dodging around the corners of the streets and hiding himself in door- ways to avoid detectives, for whom he mistook all who happened to look at him with more than a passing, glance, and who lie conceived were seeking to arrest him on the charge of attempting to take the life of the mayor. “ I never even sawr the mayor,” he would exclaim with tears in his eyes, “ and God knows I never wished him any harm, and yet these scoundrels are endeavoring to imprison me for shooting a pistol at him. There’s another of them! ” and instantly he darted down an area to hide till a bland-looking old gentleman whom he took for a disguised detective had passed. “ That man,” he continued as he emerged from his place of seclusion, “ is the sharpest one of the whole lot. He looks seventy years old, but lie’s only twenty-five. IIis hair is a wig and his beard is false. I can go nowhere without just managing to escape. Of course he will catch me at last, and then I shall go to prison for life.” C. B.,* after separating from her husband and remaining absent six years, came to the United States from Ireland and there married again. Shortly afterward a daughter by her first husband'came over, and then the mother seemed to realize for the first time that she had two living husbands. This idea seemed to be the exciting cause of her insanity, which first showed itself in unfounded suspicions that, her daughter was leading an improper life. Hallucinations of hearing next supervened, to the effect that people were talking about her night and day. She imagined she heard a young man say that she was a bad woman, had stolen lands, committed forgeries, and was the mistress of a Mr. Welsh. Also heard him say that a play founded on her life was being performed at a theatre. She declared that people look crossly at her and point their fingers towards her. Was very positive about all she heard and saw, and said her opinion could not be changed if all the circumstances should be denied by * From Dr. Parsons’ MS. Notes of Cases in Plackwell’s Island Asylum. [132]