A CASE OE DIFFUSE CONGENITAL KERATOMA (CONGENITAL ICHTHYOSIS). BY GEO. G. WHEELOCK, M.D., Attending Physician to St. Luke's and the Nursery and Child's Hospitals, New York City. The female child, of whom the photograph on the opposite page is a very faithful representa- tion, was born at the Nursery and Child’s Hospital, in New York City, May 20, 1882. The mother, a primipara, was a young and healthy woman, and, as far as could be learned, the father was a healthy, robust man, free from any constitutional disorder or skin disease. The mother certainly bore no trace of any constitutional taint, denied any venereal history, and showed no sign of present or past affection of the skin. No history of fright nor any unusual occurrence during pregnancy, no abnormal pains nor sensations could be gathered from the patient. The first stage of labor lasted about thirty (30) hours, during the last three of which no progress was made after the membranes had been ruptured by the house physician which was about two hours before I was called to see the patient. Upon examination, the os was found about two-thirds dilated, but thick and oedematous, and although it was evidently a vertex presentation, the position could not be made out, for the presenting part was crossed and broken up by various sulci running in every direction, with rough, irregular edges, which gave to the finger nearly the impression of carious bone, the smooth, hairy scalp being nowhere perceptible. The forceps were applied through the os, and the child was with considerable difficulty extracted, there seeming to be a total lack of lubrication, and consequently great friction between the foetal and maternal parts. As the head was born, a thick plate of skin two inches square was detached and escaped with the head, and it was then supposed to be a firm layer of vernix caseosa. At first the child had the appearance of a dead foetus with macerated epidermis, and I was greatly astonished to see it shortly begin to breathe, and before long to cry feebly. Its appearance was horrible in the extreme. It was covered from head to foot with a skin like leather, which was deeply fissured in all directions, and broken up into plates like an alligator or an armadillo. Along the neck and abdomen, many of the plates were completely separated, so that the true skin of a bright, strawberry color showed through, while the dingy yellow plates of epidermis separated and rose and fell with each respiratory act. The child was apparently of normal muscular development, and had reached full term. There was noth- ing wrong about the placenta, which came away readily, and bore no marks of fatty or calcareous degeneration. After birth this appearance increased, as the skin dried it became of a bright, chrome yellow, and the plates were more and more detached by the motions of the child. It lived only six hours. [ 0? ]