REMARKABLE DEFORMITY FOLLOWING AN ATTACK OF EMPYEMA. BY J. EWING HEARS, M.D., Surgeon to St. Mary's Hospital, Philadelphia, &o. Thos. S., aet. 21, was admitted to the surgical wards of St. Mary’s Hospital June 13,1878. He had come to the city from the interior of the State for the purpose of receiving treatment for a condition of chronic empyema (which had followed an attack of acute pleurisy occurring two years previously), and in which the pus had escaped from the cavity of the pleura by a spontaneous opening. At the time of his admission he was in an extremely exhausted state and was very much emaciated. Quite a large quantity of pus was evacuated daily from the opening. On admission an examination was made, and the remarkable deformity was seen which is so well shown in Plate XYI. This distortion, he stated, had developed gradually, beginning a few weeks after his first illness; he suffered much pain upon the left side of the chest, which was relieved somewhat by inclining his body to that side. Percussion revealed dullness over the entire surface of the loft side of the chest, anteriorly and posteriorly. On auscultation a very indistict respiratory murmur could he detected at the apex of the left lung—at times it was scarcely audible. The heart sounds were heard beneath the sternum and into the right side of the thorax; the cardiac action was very rapid, and it was thought that chronic pericarditis with adhesions existed. Examination of the right lung showed that it was not involved, and that it was doing double duty. The thoracic wall on the left side was immovable during the acts of respiration. The opening in the chest-wall, which had occurred spontaneously, was nearly on a line with the left nipple and between the sixth and seventh ribs, apparently—an unusual position for such openings to occur. The treatment consisted in the administration of tonics, stimulants and nutritious food, with the injection into the thoracic cavity of carbolized water. Syrup of the perchloride of iron was given in thirty-drop doses, with an ounce of cod-liver oil three times daily. Stimulants in the form of milk-punch were also given, with beef-tea and nutritions soups. [ lot ]