TESTIMONIALS This new candidate for professional favor is a model of its sort, containing elegantly illustrated articles of eminent professors. The general make-up is in the form and on the plan of the photographic illustrations of skin diseases, which proved itself so deservedly popular with the profession. New York Medical Record. % The illustrations are well done, and are abundant even to profusion. The cases have been well chosen, and care has evidently been taken to have a fair variety in each number. We anticipate that this will be a popular and useful publication. London Lancet. Its contributors are men of national reputation, and the subjects are handled in a clear and instructive manner. The editors have spared no pains or expense in placing it at the head of medical literature, for it is a work much needed and full of practical information. New Orleans Medical and Surgical Journal. It is a publication of great merit. We have no fears of assuring its editors and co-operators of the certain success of their work. Medical Bulletin, Philadeljthia. The character of the illustrations, quality of paper, and clearness of the ty- pography bring it to the front rank as a first-class publication, and as such we cordially commend it. Therajieutic Gazette, Detroit. It should bo seen by doctors individually, in order that its qualities may be fully appreciated. The general practitioner will get from it such instruction as cannot be had elsewhere. Louisville Medical News. This new venture pre-eminently deserves general support—presenting excel- lent clinical accounts of interesting cases in practice, and also highly artistic pictorial representations of the cases themselves. The names of our professional brethren connected with the work is sufficient commendation for it. Canadian Journal of Medical Science, Toronto. The artotype illustrations are most excellent pieces of work and well colored by hand. We arc satisfied that there will be a large demand for this really val- uable work, because the subscriber will find himself in possession of a picture- gallery of the most unique cases in all branches of medicine and surgery. Canada Medical and Surgical Journal, Montreal. Such a work is valuable, not only in affording an enhanced facility of under- standing by the aid of good pictorial representations, but also in rescuing from obscurity and oblivion the record of valuable cases otherwise not published for want of sufficient intelligible illustration. Canadian Practitioner, Toronto.