THE THERAPEUTIC USES OF RUBBER TUBING. Fig. 73. the funnel, it is then lowered, and the fluid returns at once, and the process is repeated as long as desired. Patients suffering from dilatation of the stomach, and requiring this process after each meal, learn to serve themselves in this way with comfort and facility. Bladder.—In the same way the bladder is washed for cystitis. The soft catheter is passed, and connected with the stop-cock of the syphon tube. The bottle is held in the hand of the operator, the amount of force with which the current shall enter is graduated with utmost nicety by raising or low- ering the bottle, and the sinking level in the bottle shows at each instant how much distension there may be. The return is rapid or slow, according to the distance of the bottle below the level of the bladder. When the bladder has been emptied, the stop-cock is closed, the bottle filled with clean fluid, and the process repeated at discretion. 1 do not know any circum- stances under which I should em- ploy the old and painful process of pumping water into the bladder. There is no need of a double catheter, or of one with two mouths. In fact, to fill the bladder, no catheter need be used in the male. A short glass tube, open at the end, may be passed through the fossa-navicularis, and the glans compressed upon it, by tightening the prepuce at the fraenum. With a pressure of five feet the current of water will generally open the whole tract of the urethra. Care should, however, be used not to make too much compression of the glans. In two cases 1 have known an abscess of the glans to follow neglect of this precaution. Vagina and Uterus.—Irrigation of the vagina, when managed by the patient, is commonly done with the fountain syringe. The India-rubber bag which is part of it is expensive, perishable and unclean. The weighted tube will better serve every purpose. When, as in puerperal cases and in septic fever, this office must be rendered by another^ the uterine tube of glass, eighteen inches in length, and half an inch in diameter (see Fig. 73) will be found very convenient. The patient need not be touched by the operator, who may stand erect at the bedside, pass the beak of the tube between the labia, and, with the gentlest pressure, to the os uteri. A little manipulation will now cause the beak [ ]