[ 105 ] DENTAL DEVELOPMENT. BY WM. HAILES, JR., M.D., Prof, of Histology and Pathological Anatomy, Albany Medical College. The following contribution, together with the accompanying illustration, is one of a contem- plated series of articles which, through the courtesy of the editors, will appear from time to time in their valuable journal: The subjects will be in normal and pathological histology and embryology, the object being to call attention to methods available for instructing classes in practical laboratory work, demonstrating the feasibility of making comprehensive sections which not only give the topography of the parts and their important relations to each other, but also permit a most satisfactory minute examination in any part of the section, having the uniform thickness of about -J2V0 °f an inch. We have chosen for our illustration a section through the superior maxilla of a kitten two weeks old. The jaws were decalcified by means of picric acid, were placed in mucilage, and cut in the freezing microtome into hundreds of sections, each about ^Vo °f an inch in thickness. These sections are kept preserved in alcohol for future use in the laboratory. Any section taken at random from the bottle, will illustrate perfectly the points necessary to be seen in studying the structure of growing bone, teeth, etc., etc., differing slightly, however, accord- ing to the locality from which the section was taken, whether canine, premolar, or molar. The drawing accompanying this article is from a section directly through the canine teeth, and exhibits beautifully not only the general structure and arrangement of the jaws—teeth (both temporary and permanent)—but also the nasal passages, vomer, turbinated bones, mucous membrane, etc., besides demonstrating perfectly the minute structure of pulp-odontoblasts and dentine, and exhibits the germ of the permanent canine inclosed in its special osseous chamber. The sac of the permanent tooth, after a certain stage of its development, adheres to the back of the sac of the temporary tooth. “ Both of them continue to grow rapidly, and after a time it is found that the bony socket not only forms a cell for the reception of the milk-sac, hut also a small posterior recess or niche for the permanent tooth-sac, with which the recess keeps pace in its growth ; it is found