COMPOUND COMPLICATED HARE-LIP. In this case the vermilion border was perfect, bnt the lip was shortened so that the lower pro- jected beyond the upper. In a few months the upper lip had stretched to such an extent that the difference was scarcely appreciable. This boy also had a very peculiar formation of the right hand, con- sisting in the absence of the ring-finger and its meta- carpal bone. The little finger sprang off at right angles to the hand, just below the line of the carpal bones, and I cannot say whether it had a short metacarpal bone or not. It could be flexed in the manner shown in Fig. Ilf. Case III.—Charles, aged IS. In this case the inter-maxillary bone was in contact with, although not united to, the right maxilla. The orifice of the right nostril was perfectly formed ; the fissure in the lip and hard palate was unusually large, mea- suring four cm. in width. The mucous membrane covering the left inferior turbinated bone was hypertrophied, forming a prominent mass in the nostril. The operation was performed as in the preceding cases, with this exception: the coluinna being formed and the lips brought together at one operation. The union was perfect. A supplementary operation was afterward per- formed. The left ala nasi being too widely separated • from the septum, a V-shaped piece was removed be- Fig. 114. tween these two points, which were then brought together so as to form a perfectly oval nostril. A piece was also removed from the right side of the columna, reducing its thickness. The patient was discharged in the condition seen in Plate XVIII, Case III, still having a slight notch on the margin of the lip. Three years after, I found that all traces of the notch had disappeared. In concluding this paper I desire to say a few words regarding Franoplasty and Staphylorraphy. I had performed these operations successfully a number of times before operating upon the case described in the first part of this paper. Since that time I have carefully looked into the results, and find that although in a large proportion of the cases the operations are successful so far as the closure of the fissure in the hard and soft palate is concerned, yet so little, if any, benefit is obtained in the improvement of the articulation, that I have been forced to the conclusion that they should be discarded as surgical pro- cedures in adults. I refer of course to cases in which the cleft is congenital. Mr. George Pollock says ‘'the real object of the operation of closing the cleft in the palate is to enable the patient to articulate hereafter, plainly and intelligibly—not to enable the child to take food.’’ * This last difficulty, he * Holmes’ Surgery, 2d Edition, Yol. IV. p. 423. r ii3 i