[ 103 ] A CASE OF EXTRA-ARTICULAR TUMORS OF TIIE HANDS. BY OLIVER P. REX, M.D., Visiting Physician to Jefferson Medical College Hospital, Philadelphia. John B., let. 42, born in England ; by occupation, a clerk ; history taken at Jefferson Medical College Hospital, May 26, 1S82. Nine years ago the joints of bis right band began to swell without pain. He attributed this to constant writing. He gave up writing for about one year, when bis band got better, but there was some deformity of the joints at the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation, the greatest deformity being at the junction of the index finger with the metacarpal bone. His family were all very healthy, with no history of gout. About the 1st of May, 1882, he left England for America on board an emigrant ship, and, while at sea, had but little food, and that of the poorest kind. He had not been on this diet long, wdien the joints of both hands began to swTcll “ without pain.” A tumor also appeared on the right hand, about the middle of the second metacarpal bone. When it made its first appearance, it was very small, but grew rapidly from day to day. Examination showed this tumor to be about the size of an almond, on dorsal surface of hand, movable, and not attached to surrounding parts. On palpa- tion it was found to be multilocular, and, when firmly A' pressed, gave the peculiar sensation of containing i swelling was nor interfering with its function sand. The right ring finger, at the second phalangeal articulation, was very much swollen, red, and slightly painful. On careful examination it was found that the extra-articular, not involving the joint The index finger of same hand was involved at the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation, and also at the phalangeal articulation of second joint, both being extra-articular. The left hand wTas also involved at the base of index finger and junction of metacarpal bone. This was the only joint that had the appearance of being involved, and its function interfered with. The little finger was also very large and swollen at the second phalangeal articulation, very red, with an abrasion at its apex, exuding a thin, transparent fluid. There was no enlargement on the dorsal