SAB COM A OF THE ANTERIOR MEDIASTINUM. periods between June of 1880 and January, 1882. Both lungs gave normal sounds by percussion and auscultation along the dorsal region, except at the base of the lungs, where slightly diminished resonance was encountered. Over the pectoral region of the right side a dull percussion sound could be elicited, corresponding above to the second intercostal space, two inches to the right of the centre of the sternum, extending obliquely downward as far as the area of cardiac dullness. Sounds of the left side normal. Cardiac dullness enlarged; apex located one inch beyond the mammary line ; its sounds were good, excepting an anaemic murmur. Pulse 90. Liver normal; splenic dullness extended as low down as the twelfth rib, but slightly exceeded the axillary lines laterally. The case progressed largely aided in the removal of the fluid. Unfortunately, however, an attack of erysipelas, confining itself to the punctures of the left thigh, came on, and, with the attendant exhaustion, terminated the case. From March 1st to April 12th the urine was highly albuminous, and contained many hyaline and vitreous casts. An investigation of the family history, made with difficulty, gave the following points. It was learned that the patient’s maternal aunt had died from a mammary cancer ; another aunt, also upon the mother’s side, had died from uterine cancer. A brother of the patient had died within the year from a tumor involving the temporal and occipital bones and the brain, pronounced cancerous by the physician who made the post mortem upon him. A sister died from some disease of the stomach, said to have been cancer, though no post mortem had been made; another sister died from tuberculosis. Post mortem was made three (3) hours after death, Dr. Coskery assisting. The costal cartilages were cut upon both sides and the sternum removed ; strong adhesions existed between the pericardium and pleurce to the under surface of the sternum. Both lungs, with heart in the pericardium, were removed cn masse. A large and firm growth measuring three (3) inches at its base or upper part and three and one-half (3-J) inches in length was found. This growth was attached to and involved the Fig. 154. from bad to worse during January and February, at which time, February 17th, Prof. O. J. Coskery kindly saw the case with me, concurring in the diagnosis of malignant disease of the anterior mediastinum. In March a general dropsy and anasarca occurred ; at one time the abdominal fluid accu- mulated to such an extent that tap- ping was contemplated solely with the view of assisting respiration. Under the influence of steam-baths and a diarrhoea, which at this time took place, the effusion rapidly disap- peared ; the limbs, however, contin- ued very large. A number of needle- punctures were made in them, which ( ICO )