FIBROUS TUMORS O F THE FACE. In consulting my record books I find the history of two other cases which will be of interest, I think, to the readers of this journal. I insert them here briefly. Case.—A French gardener, aged 51, consulted me some years ago on account of a large tumor on left side of face, extending from the zygoma to a point about two inches below the angle of the jaw. He had discovered some twenty-one years previously a small movable tumor, which was without pain or tenderness. For fifteen years its growth was slow, giving no special annoyance. For some five years subsequently its growth was more rapid, and within the previous two years it had become vascular, and at times, painful. Apprehending that the character of the growth was changing, I advised its speedy removal. My advice was followed, and he came to the city for operation. Xo special difficulty attended the removal of the tumor, the hemorrhage, though considerable, being readily controlled. The patient made a good recovery, but the tumor returned within about a year’s time, the patient dying of malignant growth in the cicatrix. The tumor weighed two and one-half pounds, and had assumed a malignant character at the time of removal. Case.—An unmarried woman, aged 40, of healthy family, presented herself with a tumor on right side of face, of some nineteen years’ duration. Its history was almost identical with the two pre- viously given. General health of patient good. Tumor removed by operation, recovery rapid and satisfactory. Xo subsequent history of return of disease. Although the histology of Fibromata is understood by the medical profession, their cause has not as yet been definitely made out. It develops in all tissues; beginning as a very small tumor, its growth is slow, it is local in its character, and unaccompanied by pain, heat, or tenderness; the deformity when in an exposed part, being the only cause of complaint. The diagnosis of Fibroma is generally easy, the only other growths liable to be confounded with it being lipoma, chondroma, cystic and adenoid growths. The malignant tumors differ from it in that they are generally painful, of rapid development, and occur in an unhealthy system. In fibroid growths the prognosis is good as regards a return of the disease, but it may develop in organs where surgical interference would jeopardize life, or when it so embarrasses vital action as to cause death. The only treatment is removal of the growth, and the earlier, the safer. The reasons for early removal are: 1. When the growth is small the operation is less dangerous. 2. When located near important organs, or internally, its relations may be such as to render an operation difficult or even impossible. Fibrous tumors, like all other abnormal developments, have a tendency to change of character, and may become malignant. Malignancy is, as a rule, never a first condition, but is in the beginning an outgrowth of some previous abnormal condition or growth. To sum up briefly, cancer is traumatic, or has its origin in a previous lesion. [ 13 1