[ 19 J LAPAROTOMY PERFORMED FOR THE REMOVAL OF A LARGE QUANTITY OF MENSTRUAL BLOOD FROM ONE HORN OF A BICORNATE UTERUS. BY T. GAILLARD THOMAS, M.D., Surgeon to N. Y. State Woman's Hospital. Mrs. A., a native of France, forty years of age, a widow, who had borne one child, entered my service in the Woman’s Hospital, and gave the following history. For the past sixteen years she had suffered from what a large number of physicians who had examined her had uniformly pronounced to be a fibrous tumor of the uterus. At the commencement of that period she had spent eight months in the hospitals of Paris, and had since consulted many physicians, but without obtaining any relief whatsoever. The three distinguishing features of her case were these: first, since its development the tumor had neither increased nor diminished in size ; second, it was at all times exquisitely sensitive to pressure, and especially so during menstruation; and, third, pain occurred in it during every menstrual act, so severe that nothing gave her relief except a free resort to opium. Her suffering dur- ing menstruation I have never seen surpassed, and she had become so demoralized by it that her object in entering the hospital was to have the growth removed at all hazards. Upon examining her I found the pelvis filled by a tumor about as large as the head of a child a year old, which, as I have already said, was very sensitive to pressure. It was apparently solid, only slightly movable, and by conjoined manipulation appeared to be attached directly to the uterus. I saw no reason to differ from the diagnosis which had been heretofore made in the case, although I was very much puzzled by the existence of the three peculiar features to which I have already referred. I dissuaded the patient from operation, but she was so much distressed at this that I got my colleagues, Dr. T. A. Emmet and Dr. J. B. Hunter to see her with me in consultation ; she indulging the hope that they might differ with me in this regard, and declaring that so great were her sufferings that she would infinitely prefer a resort to surgical interference, however great the dangers might be, than to remain exposed to them. Drs. Emmet and Hunter agreed both in the diagnosis and in the propriety of refusing operation. The patient then left the institution, and I did not see her for five or six months, when she returned again urgently demanding operation. I kept her in my service for some time, and then, with regret, again dismissed her without having afforded her any permanent relief. Two months after this she saw me at my office, and so fully described her sufferings, and