CONGENITAL UNION OF THE FINGERS. [ 121 ] Eriehseii barely alludes to it in his “ System of Surgery,” but gives a diagram of the operation, which is reproduced in the accompanying woodcut. My operation proved in every way unsatisfactory. It was more difficult to perform than had been anticipated, and the result was an utter failure. It was performed as follows: An incision was made along the centre of the dorsal surface of the middle finger from one end to the other, and a flap, including integument and subcutaneous tissue, dissected up laterally as far as the middle of the ring finger. Another and similar incision was made on the palmar surface of the ring finger, and the flap dissected half-way across the middle finger. The flaps were then held back, and the remaining tissue forming the bond of union between the two fingers divided. The union at the ungual extremity was osseous. The flaps were then adjusted ; that dissected from the dor- sum of the middle finger being wrapped round the palm or surface of the ring finger, and vice versa. Fig. 125. Fig. 126. Fig. 127. They did not adapt themselves as had been expected. The flap raised from the dorsum could be made to touch the line of integument on the palmar surface of the other finger by some stretching, but the palmar flap being tough, thick and inextensible, could not be made to meet by nearly a quarter of an inch. The edges, however, were brought together as well as possible and a simple dressing of lint applied. A piece of rubber tubing was then passed through the septum between the middle and index finger, about half an inch above the normal commissure, and attached to a band round the wrist, to establish a permanent opening, and thus form a basis for future proceedings on the thick web remaining from the unsuccessful operation in infancy. June 9th. Since the operation the fingers have been going on from bad to worse. ISTo healing took place, but everything sloughed, until at one time it looked as though the boy would inevitably lose his hand. To-day the second and third phalanges of the middle and ring fingers were removed, as they only hung by shreds of necrotic tissue. The attempt to make useful fingers out of useless ones had of course failed, and the only thing left was to prevent further sloughing and save the hand. June 20th. The healing process lias been going on slowly since the last report, and the wounds now present a healthy appearance, and but a small surface remains to heal over. Patient meantime has been kept on iron and nutritious food.