[ 99 ] A CASE OF TRAUMATIC AND SEPTIC EMPYEMA. BY A. L. RANNEY, M.D., Adjunct Professor of Anatomy, University Medical College, New Torlc. The case represented by the accompanying plate came under my observation a few years since, and admirably represents the extreme type of ulceration which may follow suppuration within the cavity of the pleura. The patient was a girl who had received an injury directly applied to the chest, causing fracture of the fourth and fifth ribs of the left side, with pleuritic complications. She came under my care after being in the charge of other medical attendants for quite a lapse of time following the injury. During this period she had developed well-marked empyema, and the pus had appeared externally to the ribs, as fluctuating tumors which manifested a tendency to slough. Several sponta- neous openings occurred rapidly, and through the larger ones the surface of the lung could be seen. The case was of such an extreme type that I made a sketch, which is reproduced in Fig. 97, as the best method of preserving a record of the situation and size of the openings. The drawing was made with every precaution against exaggeration ; more pains being taken with the measurements than with the artistic portion of the work. The left side showed less retraction than would be supposed, with so extensive a destruction of the pleura. The patient gave evidence of the pyemic condition even before the spontaneous openings occurred, and eventually succumbed to that disease. The following suggestions seem to me to be afforded by the facts related. The fracture of the ribs was evidently the exciting cause—yet such injuries do not generally result in so serious a com- plication. It may be well, therefore, to repeat a diagnostic point so often given, viz.: that fractures from direct violence, applied at the seat of fracture, are more liable to create pulmonary complications than those which follow compression of the chest or some other type of indirect violence. In the former the fragments are driven inward by the force of the blow; in the latter, the ribs bend before the fracture occurs, and the fragments tend to displace themselves outward. Again, the existence of septic poisoning is one of the most frequent causes of extensive and fatal suppuration within the pleura. In this condition the proliferation of new cells is far more rapid than in normal inflammatory processes, and the pus tends to burrow rapidly, and to evacuate itself by spontaneous openings produced by ulceration of the soft tissues which enclose it.