[ 71 ] THE THERAPEUTIC USES OF RUBBER TUBING. BY WM. M. CHAMBERLAIN, M.D., Visiting Physician to Charity Hospital, Blackwell's Island, New York. The therapeutic uses of rubber tubing, together with nearly all the appliances figured or described in the following paper, presented by the present writer to the State Medical Society, in 1871, and to the New York Journal Association at the meeting of March 13th, in the same year. As the paper itself was not offered for publication, and the reports in the journals* did not show drawings of the apparatus, the methods there proposed did not obtain a general currency. Several individuals have reported to the writer that they have employed the system, and various devices in the same line have from time to time been since presented. Within the last year, however, the same ideas have been reproduced in Vienna, and a cumbrous and extensive system of apparatus, protected by an international patent under the name of “ Leiter’s Tubes,” was presented to the International Congress at London, as a novelty. “Leiter’s Tubes” differ from those proposed and exhibited here in 187J only in the material; they are made of lead, instead of rubber. The general attention which they have received in Europe, the fact that it was proposed to obtain a patent for them here, and the opinion that our apparatus is much better than the foreign, led the writer to present the matter anew to the Academy of Medicine, on April 20th ; and to comply with the request of this journal to furnish an illustrated paper upon the subject. The “Therapeutic Uses” considered were irrigation in its various applications, and the control of inflammation and general pyrexia by withdrawing or adding heat by currents of cold or warm water conducted in tubes over the surface. The superiority claimed for the American method lies in the following particulars: 1. Any required appliance can be extemporized and accurately adapted to the precise indication, which is impossible in the fixed metallic system. * Transactions of N. Y. St.. Medical Society for 1875, p. 10; Medical Record, Yol. IX. p. 96; Medical and Surgical Reporter, April 11th, 1874, p. 331.