ILLUSTRATED MEDICINE AND SURGERY. [ 56 ] great advantage ; for in such, large ulcers the healing is very slow at best; and often, as in the patient whose case illustrates this article, Nature is tired out, and ceases her work, leaving the patient uncured, and subjected, besides, to the constant drain from a large ulceration. Greater flexibility of the cicatrix is obtained if the grafting be close. Mr. John Woodman* claims that although true skin is not obtained (even the original graft disappears), the new tissue resembles it more than a common cicatrix does, and Bryant,f in his excellent article, says sensation appears earlier, and is more acute, in grafted tissue. I have never been able to verify the difference in sensation, but it is certain that the cicatrix is more flexible. In appearance, however, the new skin resembles that formed at the edges so nearly that it is impossible to draw the line of demarcation. The gradually increasing tension of a cicatrix, and its consequent feebleness, as it advances toward the centre of a large sore, is well known ; and when tension becomes sufficient to cut off the blood supply, cicatrization ceases. This is certainly largely prevented by grafting, and although such a cicatrix must be most carefully watched until it becomes strong, we may say that, being under less tension, it is probably better; certainly quite as good as the one unaided Nature provides ; while the amount of time and vital force saved, in cases which would recover without it, must be immense. 7. Action on surrounding tissue.—One of the most marvellous effects of grafting is the very decided stimulation which the whole wound receives. Most marked near the grafts, it is seen even on distant parts of the ulcer. The wound on the hand of the patient whose case illustrates this article was decidedly improved by grafting on the breast. But its action is best watched by placing several grafts in a row along the edge of an ulcer, when each successful graft will be marked by a peninsula of skin jutting out toward the centre ; the surface as well as the edges of the wound are made brighter and more active. 8. Method of growth.—The origin of the cells by which a graft grows is doubtful. Reverdin claims its action to be catabiotic, because he has never seen its cells proliferating. The new epidermis would thus be made up of cells from the granulating surface which had been so changed in form by the presence of the graft, that they assume the appearance and function of epidermis. If proliferation takes place, the new cells are simply nourished by the granulations, grow, and reproduce themselves. By means of this method large wounds are no longer hopeless affairs to the surgeon. Given a healthy surface, and abundance of material for grafting, and almost any surface can be covered— while the time and strength saved the patient is incalculable. Its application is not limited, however, to large surfaces ; but wherever it is desirable to prevent contraction or scars it may be used. An ulcer half an inch in diameter may be covered with grafts, and entirely closed in a day or two. Skin- grafting has not yet received the attention and general application which it really deserves. * Monograph by John Woodman, published by Churchill, 1873. t Bryant’s Surgery, article Skin-grafting, page 130.