CASES OF RUPTURE OF THE CHOROID. Its shape is very irregular, forming three notches above, and two processes or a single bifurca- tion below; besides this, there is still another notch or prolongation close to the transverse tear. This transverse rent is continuous with a very much larger one running horizontally, and ex- tending almost to the periphery of the fundus, where it ends abruptly. It is 6 D. in length, and in its widest part I I). in breadth. Near the transverse tear it is narrower, but gradually widens out until about the middle of its course, when it again tapers out to become still narrower. The edges are irregular in outline, widely separated, and both the inner parts and margin covered with dark cho- roidal pigment. The more central part of the surface is of a whitish-yellow, or gray color, while that nearer the margin is white. All the region above and below the rent, as well as between it and the disc, were strewn with irregular accumulations of very dark choroidal pigment heaps, while on the nasal side of the disc, the choroid looks quite normal. Some fine blood-vessels can be traced almost up to the margin of the transverse tear, but none were distinctly seen to traverse it. By the most careful examination in both methods no blood-vessels could be seen upon the horizontal rupture, except on the upper margin near its termination, where a single vessel runs for a short distance along it, and then on to the white surface of the rupture. This vessel could not be traced any farther, nor brought into connection with any other. From the behavior of this blood-vessel and the wide gaping of the choroid, as well as its irregular borders, it may be inferred that the retina is also torn, but of this I coxdd not make myself certain. Whether the retina is involved in the rent will perhaps become more apparent later, by the formation of new connective tissue at its margin; but for the present I must declare myself unable to speak positively on this point The external appearances of the eye are now nearly normal; the small iridodyalisis being covered by the lid, and the tear in the pupillary margin of the iris hardly visible except by minute inspection. The dilatation of the pupil, and the paralysis of accommodation which also existed, have both disappeared; the pupil is now of about the same size as the other. There is a central scotoma, and a large defect in the field of vision corresponding to the very extensive lesion. Tension of the eyeball is normal, and it is free from pain or injection. This is by for the most extensive laceration of the choroid 1 have seen, and if I may judge of those reported by others from their descriptions and drawings, the largest hitherto described. Although the eye is now free from irritation or pain, it is questionable whether such an exten- sive injury may not finally result in phthisis bulbi, or be followed by attacks of irritation, redness, and pain from trifling causes. This case illustrates the difficulty which surrounds making a diagnosis as to the exact nature of the injury soon after its infliction. It is only by taking into account the clinical experiences of others that one can feel moderately sure that the extravasations of blood and opacity of the retina are con- secutive to the choroidal rupture. Strictly speaking, the diagnosis of rupture of the choroid is not made until it is seen with the ophthalmoscope, any more than the diagnosis of stone in the bladder is made until the surgeon actually touches it with the point of his sound. There can be no room for doubt that, before the peculiar image which this lesion presents with the ophthalmoscope was first ()