ILLUSTRATED MEDICINE AND SURGERY\ [ 12 ] of the posterior extremity of the newly formed columna to the extent of about three mm. I then excised a segment from the right edge of the columna, about three mm. in breadth in the middle, and tapering toward each extremity, and brought together by line sutures the sides of the chasm thus produced. I separated from the cheek the newly formed patch of the right ala nasi, by a deep incision, and dissected out a considerable portion of the subcutaneous adipose tissue, so as to diminish the thickness of the dap, and to reduce it to its proper level. The patch was secured in its place by line sutures. I then dissected out the thin cicatricial tissue on the right side of the middle of the lip, so as to leave the two divisions of the lip each with a straight parallel margin. The incisions were made in such a manner that the left or longer dap was bevelled at the ex- pense of its mucous surface, and the right or smaller dap was bev- elled at the expense of its cutaneous surface, so that when the daps were afterwards brought together, the left dap overlapped the right one, while the cutaneous surfaces of the two daps were on the same plane. This was done in accordance with a plan suggested by Dr. Packard of Philadelphia in a paper read before the New York Academy of Med- icine. The two daps were both detached from the bridles which bound them to the upper jaw and to the buccal mucous membrane. I then made an incision on each side on a line corresponding with the upper margin of the lip, extending into the cheek to the distance of about four cm., and the same line of incision was then curved downward behind the angle of the mouth, and forward along the lower lip to the extent of three cm., the daps of the lower lip being about twelve mm. in breadth. The two daps of the upper lip were then brought together near the median line, and were secured by two pins and a number of due sutures. A small triangular surface on the right cheek, about twenty-five mm. in length was left to granulate. This space was lightly filled with picked lint moistened with a solution or carbolic acid, one part to forty, and the surface was