A TER A TO L 0 GICA L CO NT RIB UTION. [ 124 ] death, and it is with great misgivings that some of the more advanced admitted that giants, dwarfs and children with supernumerary fingers and toes should be permitted to live, hut demand that even these must he raised far from human intercourse. Riolan us (DeMonstro nato Lutetiae, 1605). ISTot until the beginning of the eighteenth century does scientific research begin, and since then, especially with the science of embryology, has the study of teratology gradually developed. No satisfactory conclusions have as yet been reached. Almost every author follows his own classification and his own views, and much work must be done before these can be made to harmonize. Foerster truly states that morbid processes in the ovum result very differently, according to the degree of development during which they occur, and consequently separates the resulting monstrosities into two grand divisions. First. Morbid changes similar to those which result from the same diseases after birth are such as appear after the beginning of the fourth month, when all parts are formed and merely increase in size. Secondly. The totally different changes which occur before this period, when one or more parts are not yet formed or are still developing; these are the real monstrosities, and if we think but a moment this must teach us how ridiculous are the supposed effects of maternal impressions, often occurring when the affected parts have long been perfectly formed. He establishes three classes. First. Supernumerary or oversized members. Second. Defective. Third. Abnormal shape or changes in the germ or embryonic development. 1 merely state these to show how unsatisfactory they are, as one single monstrosity may appear under all of these classes, and repeat that I will attempt neither classification nor explanation, but will merely describe these three monstrosities with the hope that they may prove useful to others. The gathering of material and description of individual cases will serve the specialist in his work, and it is with a view to this that I add my mite by the brief description of the following somewhat unusual cases which lately came into my hands: a.—TIydrocephalus Peropus. This female child, the result of a premature delivery in an unfortunate girl, a primipara, is thirteen and five-eighths inches in length ; the bead measures three and seven-eighths inches; the body five and seven-eighths inches ; the lower extremities three and seven-eighths inches. The peculiarity consists in the combination of hydrocephalus with deformity of the extremities, in addition to which we have the supernumerary toes and fingers. The hands have five fingers each with a morbidly changed sixth, which appears more like a tumor attached to the little finger; on the right foot we find six well-shaped toes, so that it is difficult to say which is the supernumerary; whilst upon the left foot the little toe is so deformed as to make it evident that the addition is in this member. The deformity of the lower extremities in connection with the hydrocephalus and other morbid changes would undoubtedly lead us to presume that they