t 42 ] ILL USTRA TED ME DU 'INK A ND S URL ER Y. fasciculus of the palmar aponeurosis tightly contracted, intimately related to the skin in parts, and lying above the flexor tendon, which was not diseased. On June 9th 1 resorted to Adams’s operation on the little Anger of the left hand (Fig. 33), dividing the band at two points *in the palm near the root of the Anger, where it was most tense and accessible. I did this without ether, and on account of the pain the patient refused to let me make a third division of a Intend band, on the outside, which prevented complete extension by about thirty degrees only. The greater part of the deformity, however, had been repaired by the two cuts. The Anger was bound in extension upon a posterior padded splint. Five days later it was found capable of flexion and extension through the limits gained by the operation. But another unexpected result was reported of which the patient volunteered this statement. For two months the band in the right palm had been so constantly in pain that he could not move this hand up to touch his head without almost unbearable suffering, and at times, especially if the palm was struck, it was very painful. Directly after the operation on the left hand the right ceased to hurt and he has found that he can now lie at night with his right hand behind his head and sleep on it without pain, which lie has not been able to do for months. On June 21st I operated under ether, making subcutaneous division of the band in the right palm at flve points half an inch apart. Its adhesion to the skin made this number necessary The Anger was well released, straightened out parallel with the others, and subsequently re- gained suppleness and freedom. The joints and tendons were intact. The patient lias been watched for half a year and no recontraction has taken place. He resumed his work of cloth cutting and has now no pain or return of trouble. In cutting I used the small tenotome of the ophthalmic surgeons, and much prefer it. It has been proved that the mechanical extension devices fail to overcome this contraction, and that there is no tendency to recontract after operation as there is in burn cicatrices. Adams believes this malady can almost always be traced to one constitutional origin, namely, gout. Bryant thinks that from its occasional symmetry it has probably a constitutional and not a local origin (injury). From the clews derived from the history of this case, I am inclined to think there may be a central nervous origin. The right hand became affected after the left had been progressing several years, and was most curiously relieved of all pain by operation on the left, giving strong suspicion of a reflex relation between the two. I may say, however, that there were otherwise no ataxic symptoms.