[ 87 ] DOUBLE EQUINO-'VARUS. RESULT OF INFLAMMATION ; SUBCUTANEOUS TENOTOMY OF TENDO ACIIILLIS AND PLANTAR FASCIA OF EACH FOOT ; IMMEDIATE REPLACEMENT AND RETENTION IN NORMAL POSITION. RESULT—NEARLY PERFECT RESTORATION OF FORM AND MOTION IN SIX WEEKS BY LEWIS A. SAYRE, M.D., Professor of Orthopedic Surgery Bellevue Hospital Medial College; Consulting Surgeon Bellevue Hospital, <&c. <&c. Miss M. de O , aged 144, of Colombia, South America, was brought to me by Dr. Forero, of that city, on the 20tli of May, 1882, suffering from double club-foot—Equino-Varus in nearly its most exaggerated form. Her parents were perfectly healthy, and she had always been healthy until 10 years of age, when, after exposure to cold while in a state of perspiration, she was seized with an attack of acute rheumatic fever, involving the knees, ankles, wrists and elbows of both sides, the orbicular joints not being attacked. She was confined to her bed for several months. As she recovered from the acute pain, the heels began to draw up, and the feet became inverted, as seen hi the accompanying Plate XIY. She was unable to stand without support, and had been unable to walk without crutches for the past four years. Her body was unusually large, but the lower extremities were badly developed, and from the knees down the limbs were atrophied, very cold, and quite purple. The feet could not be extended, nor the heels brought down by the strongest manipulation, and when pressure was made on the tendo-achillis or plantar fascia, while thus stretched, it was followed instantly by a severe reflex spasm, showing that these tissues had become structurally shortened, and therefore required section or division before the feet could be restored to their proper position. The following is a very important rule in practice, and I believe I was the first to establish it. When any contracted tissue, whether muscle, tendon or fascia, is stretched to its utmost limit, and pressure made by the tip of the finger or thumb on this tissue, produces a reflex spasm, it must be divided before any further elongation can be obtained. On the contrary, if, when the contracted parts are thus stretched, this kind of pressure does not produce a reflex spasm, those tissues can be