CONGENITAL UNION OF THE FINGERS. The line of union is even with the dorsum of the hand, except where the knuckles of the middle finger rises above its neighbor. The thickness of the union is equal to the thickness of the fingers themselves; it is not a mere web. The two nails seem to arise from one matrix; they lie deeply imbedded in the skin ; the line of separation between them is marked by a faint depression. All along the terminal or ungual phalanx the union is very firm, apparently bony. 2. The commissure between the index and middle finger is extended as far as the first phalangeal articulation, forming a long web between these two fingers. Originally they were joined together like the two fingers already de- scribed, and the remaining' web is the result of a par- tially successful operation per- formed in infancy; the little finger is normal in every re- spect. Between the thumb and the index there is a thick web, ex- tending as far as the middle of the first phalanx of the thumb. A cicatrix here shows the trace of a partial attempt to separate what was a com- plete union, performed at the same time as the operation Fig. 121 already referred to, and even tlG 122. less successful in its results. The whole palmar surface presents a deep cup-shaped hollow, from the necessary curvature of the united fingers as already described. The skin of the palm is thick and hard. The feet present the same kind of deformity as the hands, but not in so marked a degree ; and as they do not interfere with locomotion, are of no practical interest or importance, and call for no treatment. The patient has no knowledge of similar, or indeed of any malformation in his family, on either side. The illustration, from a photograph, represents the dorsal and palmar aspect of both hands, and gives a very fair idea of the condition of the patient. Considering the difficulty of keeping apart the surfaces of united digits after their separation, the previous unsuccessful attempts made in this case and the extensive nature of the attachment, I determined to proceed in a different way; to make a flap from the dorsal surface of one finger and the palmar surface of the other respectively, and fold them over, so that each would cover the raw surface of the other finger. This operation is described in “ Annandale on Malformation of the Fingers and Toes.” [ HO 1