ILLUSTRATED MEDICINE AND SURGERY. [ 94 1 lend a helping influence, and will now append a few general laws which will materially assist in reaching the truth when we meet with suspicious and ill-defined specimens. The distrust which exists among some physicians of the reliability of the microscope, even in the prognosis of Bright’s disease, is I fear, directly due to their own hasty conduct in basing an opinion upon the character of one, two, or four casts. This is certainly the most fertile source of error in microscopy, for I have known diagnoses of Bright’s disease (chronic) to rest solely upon the presence of three or four granular tube-casts and general debility. And in those cases of this class that I have followed, no ill effect has ever developed, although the casts were present from time to time. If we have urine from a case of indubitable disease of the kidney and are determined to classify its type and stage, we never base our opinion on a few casts, two, three, or four of a particular kind, but should examine a large number, and direct our attention and opinions to the general character of the deposit. Thus, in acute Bright’s disease, a few casts will contain oil, but this will not lead us into error, for expe- rience has taught us of their frequent presence, followed by total, rapid, and complete recovery. Why, then, should we desert our guiding star, and diagnosticate disease from a single or a doubtful cast, and upon evidence almost unsupported by general symptoms, when we refuse to diagnosticate the stage of a typical case of the same disease, on ten times that number of casts. Therefore, let it be a law never to base an opinion upon a few casts. With this caution in mind, the presence of a few contaminating, imitative types will never confuse or lead us into error. Tube-casts vary much in size, according to their origin and manner of separation. From tubes of equal diameters the casts may vary in size ; if the epithelial layer be of ordinary thick- ness, a cast of medium size will form ; if it be swollen, the cast is small, or if the epithelium be stripped off, the cast will be large; consequently in the same specimen of urine the extremes in size may be seen varying from -^5- to xyViffl1 of an inch in diameter. This irregularity is the most constant feature in casts, and should have due consideration in reaching our conclusions. With few exceptions, extraneous specimens will be of the same diameter or nearly so, and never, to my knowledge, show the trasitional stages between the extreme diameter of -g-J-j- and toVA^ of an inch, as noticed in casts. We, therefore, declare that irregularity in the relative diameters of casts is of value in their diagnosis. The intensity of illumination may also aid in complex cases. With the student, the detection of hyaline, or finely granular casts is a difficult task, for with bright illumination he seeks the subtle object, and unless some friendly, coarsely granular cast falls in the range of vision, his search will be fruitless; later in his career he learns to seek with dull illumination, and always to good advantage. Comparing the requisite intensity of illumination for the clear discrimination of objects, a natural classification is made particularly of true and false casts. True casts may be best seen with dull illumination, especially the hyaline types, yet, it remains true through the whole series ; false, imitative casts are best seen with full illumination • most assuredly, they may be seen with dull illumination, but not so clearly ; on the contrary, the true cast is often invisible with bright illumination.