[ 43 ] THE PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY OF A CASE OF SPINAL CARIES WITH PARAPLEGIA. BY V. P. GIBNEY, M.D., Of the Hospital for the Ruptured and Crippled, Hew York City. The accompanying plate represents the appearances found post-mortem in a male child set. six years, the clinical notes of whose case have been presented to the New York Pathological Society. Yet in view of the reproduction of the sketch made at the time of the autopsy, I propose to briefly give the more important facts in the case, that its pathology may he the better understood. The boy had marked deformity of the spine from caries of the vertebrae of eighteen months, and paraplegia of four months’ standing, when he came into hospital, August 18, 1S7L The paraplegia was marked by the characteristics of Pott’s disease: viz. : complete loss of voluntary power, very little atrophy, reflexes exaggerated even to the exhibition of spinal epilepsy, &c. Symptoms of profound myelitis were developed, bed-sores forming over the nates and thighs; pulmonary hyper- semia produced, at times, very alarming symptoms, and he finally died, thirteen months after admission to hospital, seventeen months after the invasion of the paraplegia, and two years and seven months from the inception of the disease. The treatment consisted of mechanical support for the head and spine, counter-irritation, massage, tonics, &c. Dr. Jane way assisted me at the autopsy. The angular deformity of the spine extended from the first to the twelfth dorsal vertebrae, the apex being at the seventh. The various organs presented nothing worthy of note in this connection. Within the spinal concavity lay a tumor, two inches high and three and a half inches broad. This was an abscess, the contents of which had degenerated into a white, cheesy mass, well shown in the left hand figure of the plate. Its walls were formed by the anterior common ligaments, thickened connective tissue and the pleura. On vertical section no trace of the the body of the eighth dorsal vertebra could be found, and only small portions of the bodies of the sixth, seventh and ninth. Pultaceous matter occupied the place of the body of the eighth vertebra, and pressed on the spinal cord, which at this point was anaemic to a high degree, yellow, and very small. The absence of blood vessels in this compressed portion was notable. The greater portion of the cord was removed, and the sketch made without delay. The cord was placed in Mueller’s fluid, and was well preserved eighteen months later, when Dr. Seguin kindly made a micro-