ILLUSTRATED MEDICINE AND SURGERY. [ 04 J On May 18, 1877, about one year after the last operation, I made a careful examination of the case, using Otis’ Urethra meter. The penis was found to he perfectly straight, and the patient stated that during erection no curvature occurred. In the urethra some differences in calibre were found. At one and one-half inches behind the meatus, the urethra meter showed a calibre of 25 F; at two inches, 27; at two and a half inches, 30; at three inches, 31; at four inches, 28. Iso. 26 steel sound passed easily into the bladder without causing discomfort. I saw this patient last in June, 1881, and found that he was not conscious of any symptom referable to stricture. He stated that the penis, when erect, was somewhat shorter than it had formerly been. Case II.—Geo. W. Colby, forty-eight years of age, a planter from Georgia, was admitted to St. Luke’s Hospital on April 7th, 1879. Five months before admission, a phagedenic sore of venereal origin appeared at the base of the glans penis, just at the right of the fraenum. At the end of two months this sore had opened into the urethra. The ulceration slowly healed after this, leaving an opening just at the right of the fraenum, the fraenum being nearly destroyed. The fistula was surrounded by a mass of dense cicatricial tissue. This cicatricial tissue caused a decided bending of the glans downwards and to the right, when erection took place. The meatus was contracted to Ho. 20 F, and almost all of the urine passed through the fistula. On the 8th of May I enlarged the meatus, and on the 27th of the same month I divided strictures which existed at 2M, 2H and 2>% inches behind the meatus until steel sound Ho. 31 F. could be passed readily into the bladder. The patient left the hospital for a while, but returned for the cure of the fistula. The condition of the penis at this time was as follows: Just at the base of the glans at the right of the median line was a fistula opening directly into the urethra, and large enough to admit a Ho. 20 French bulbous bougie. The opening was surrounded by dense cicatricial tissue. Hothing was left of the fraenum but a thin bridge of skin. The foreskin was fortunately very abundant, and the urethra had been rendered perfectly patent by the division of the strictures. August 22d 1 operated upon the fistula. The urethra was first opened in the perinseum to pro- vide against the passage of urine over the seat of operation. The foreskin was then pulled tightly backwards, and the surface around the fistula to the extent of one-half inch square was completely rawed. This surface of course included the base of the glans. Posterior to this, on what was the inner surface of the foreskin, a corresponding area with the exception of the central portion, was also rendered raw bv dissection with the knife. The central portion was left undissected for two reasons. In the first place I wished to present integument to the urethra, and so avoid cicatricial contraction within the urethra; and in the second place I intended to push the end of this central portion within the urethra under the anterior edge of the fistula. The parts were then arranged as I have attempted to indicate in Figs. 61 and 62. The foreskin being now simply rolled forward, the lines A' C' and B' D' were doubled on themselves at their centres, so that the edges C ' D ' and A' B ' were brought in contact. The central unrawed portion not only covered the fistula, but its extremity, which was now anterior, was somewhat detached, and was tucked under the anterior edge of the fistula, which edge had pre- viously been scraped with a small knife. This small portion was held in place by two fine sutures carried through the floor of the urethra and then through the outer flap. All adjacent edges were then