ILLUSTRATED MEDICINE AND SURGERY. [ 74 1 to engage in the os, the outer end is then depressed and the beak slides on to the fundus, the current is liberated, and, having washed out the womb, returns to the bedpan placed beneath the patient. The value of the process in suitable cases cannot be over-stated. Bowels.—Irrigation of the bowels is greatly aided by the posture of the patient. Sims’ position— semi-prone on the left side—still better, the “ knee-chest ” (Campbell), permits the reception of a large quantity (three to seven pints). Professor Mosler of Greifswalde employs cold water thus to reduce the volume of the spleen, and to abate general pyrexia. The hydrostatic pressure thus obtained has for me twice reduced invagina- tion of the intestine, the tumor having in each case advanced into the descending colon. Surgical Operations.—Some surgeons like to have a tube, closed by a stop cock, hanging over the operating-table. A slender stream of carbolized water washes away the blood, clears the field of vision, and saves much sponging. The water runs in a gutter of the rubber table-cover to a pail beneath. Ear Douche.—The very neat and effective ear douche which bears the name of Dr. Roosa deserves to be mentioned here. II. Appliances for controlling local inflammation and general pyrexia. The scope of this paper does not include a discussion of the value of cold and heat as thera- peutic agents. They are the prime forces of nature, which represent Rest and Motion : Death and Life. “ Ubi vis, ibi virtus.” In the literature of the subject the names of Langenbeck, Traube, Wunder- lich, Liebermeister, Ziemssen, Currie, Fox, and Murchison, are prominent. The most complete mono- graph is perhaps that of Esmarch upon “Cold in Surgery,” translated in 1861, by the Sydenham Society. The review of the cases there published certainly seems to warrant the language in which the author delivers his opinion. “ Of all the remedies which are at our command for the treatment of inflammatory processes, it is the most important; and without it I would rather not be a surgeon.” Esmarch’s appliances were rubber bags filled with iced water, or metallic boxes. Leiter’s, as before mentioned, are leaden tubes. The objections to either are very considerable. To be effective, the bags must be continually changed, the degree of cold is constantly varying. Water will not lie upon the slope or crown of a convex surface ; the bags are very heavy ; in the constant handling, it is diffi- cult to prevent leakage. The value of hot or cold applications, for the most part, depends upon their equable and continuous action. Nothing more easily defeats the end proposed than alternate heat and cold, expansion and contraction, chilling and flushing, which exhausts the elasticity of the vascular and aggravates the irritability of the nervous system. For the apparatus of rubber-tubing the advantages have already been enumerated. The simplest form of the apparatus is shown in PI. 71, where a current of water is seen running through a tube loosely wound around the forearm and wrist. This is applicable only to the extremities, and even then is not to be preferred. These parts may, and other parts must, be treated by means of tube confined in coils of various size and shape. PI. 71. Given the tubing, it requires but little time to make such as may be required. Sitting before a table, covered with a woolen cloth, to prevent slipping, the coils are laid in circles, ellipses’ or parallelograms, as a sailor lays rope on the deck. Tubing is sold in lengths of twelve feet. As many as may be desired are