ILLUSTRATED MEDICINE AND SURGERY. deeper on the left side. The lower jaw is normal. The pupils are equal and normal. Motion is well pci formed in the atrophied left cheek, as well as in other parts. Sensibility.— . Esthesiometer points are differentiated on the forehead, of 15 mm. on either side, on cheeks at 11 or 12 mm. on either side, on the lower cheek and over jaw at from G to 10 mm., on the red surface of the lips 2 mm., equally well on both sides. Pricking is well and similarly felt on each side. The electrical reactions were carefully studied. First, to Faradism. Xervous reaction (Kidder’s induction machine), on right and left substantially equal, with minor current from posts a. it., and four inches of cylinder withdrawn, contractions obtained. Muscular reactions: one sponge on malar eminences and the other electrode on the lip or cheek, externally and internally, cause similar contractions on either side. Every muscle of the lip and cheek on the left side is present, and responds normally. Second, to Galvanism. With 8-9 elements reactions of nerves and muscles are normal; on both sides jerky contractions and C O C C A X C C. Yaso-motorphenomena.—Except the whitish spot above described, no difference is to be noted between the cheeks ; when the patient blushes both sides of her face and head are equally suffused, and the same is true of the effect of nitrite of amyl. The mother of the patient thinks that she does not perspire in the wasted region. A treatment by galvanism, cathode placed strobile on the wasted region for five minutes with a medium current was faithfully carried out for several months without result. The patient was not again seen until January 14 of the present year, when the following notes were taken. Patient is large and well-developed, has menstruated normally for a few months. The left cheek presents very much the same appearance, except that the spot of discoloration is no longer visible. The atrophy lies between the left malar eminence and the mouth, and involves the subcutaneous fissures of the cheek and left upper lip, and the left upper maxilla, in its palatal and alveolar parts. The wasting, both in bone and lip, reaches just to the median line. Can purse lips and draw mouth upward and backward well; the muscles of the atrophied region acting as well as those of the healthy side. Sensibility.—To the lightest finger-touching test patient thinks that she feels less acutely in the left infra-orbital and mental regions than on the right, but the esthesiometer reveals no differ- ence—both sides are normally sensitive. States that when she washes her face she feels the coldness of the water equally on both sides. Faradic and Galvanic tests were carefully made, and showed no qualitative change in nervous and muscular reactions. To Faradism with a metallic electrode within the cheek, the muscles within the atrophied region contracted more quickly and fully than those of the healthy side (with the same weak current). This was probably due to diminished resistance in the affected cheek by the dis- appearance of the skin and some areolar tissue. ■ The patient’s mother states that she now blushes equally on both sides of the face. I did not feel justified in harpooning the face for muscular fibres, hence can make no statement upon their condition. One case has been published by l’rof. AV\ A. Hammond. The patient was shown to the Xew York Xeurological Society, and Dr. Hammond stated that the muscular fibres ot the atrophied region were smaller than those from corresponding muscles on the healthy side; but showed no degenerative changes. [ 30 ]