1 85 ] SARCOMA OF THE PHARYNX AND SECONDARILY OF THE NECK. BY L. A. STIMSON, M.D., Professor of Surgical Pathology, University Medical College, Mew York; Surgeon to the Presbyterian and Bellevue Hospitals, New York. Otto B., ten years old, was admitted to Bellevue Hospital in the Fall of 1879, to be treated for a tumor of the pharynx and neck, which had made its appearance the previous April. The inter- ference of the growth with respiration made tracheotomy necessary in November. He came under my care January 1, 1880, and I was urged by the boy’s parents to attempt the removal of the tumor. The following notes were taken at the time: “ The boy is pallid but fat; the cavity of the mouth occupied by a tumor of irregular surface, at first congested in appearance, but now paler, which is attached upon the left side in the tonsillar region, the attachment extending down the inner side of the lower jaw, as far forward as the second molar tooth. The finger cannot be passed beyond it to deter- mine the posterior limits of the attachment. The left side of the neck is swollen by a mass which extends from below the ear obliquely forward and downward past the angle of the jaw. This mass is composed of at Fast two distinct parts, the upper and larger one giving a sensation of fluctuation, the lower one being harder, and feeling like an enlarged gland ; the surface of the larger one is smooth and uniform, the skin normal and non-adherent. Patient bleeds a little from the mouth every night; breath fetid by sloughing of the buccal tumor on its under side. The tumors in the neck are appar- ently not continuous with the one in the mouth. “Feb. 5.—The mouth was laid open by an incision carried from its angle to the angle of the jaw on the left side ; I could then pass the finger around the tumor, and found it deeply ulcerated in its under surface, and attached to the posterior pillar of the fauces, as far out as the uvula ; apparently it did not extend back of the posterior pillar. I passed a wire around it and cut off as much as possible with the ecraseur, and then removed more by tearing and cutting with scissors. I was prepared to divide the jaw behind the teeth, but refrained because of the apparent impossibility of making a com- plete removal of the growth, which proved to extend down the side of the pharynx, behind the tongue. The portion that was left was crushed between the fingers, in the hope that it would slough out. The part removed was pale, yellowish white, very soft and juicy. “ The incision through the skin was then extended towards the ear, and both tumors removed by careful dissection. The larger was 3 inches long, I\ inches in diameter, and lay upon the carotid, and in front of, and partly under the sterno-cleido mastoid. “ Microscopic examination shows the mass to lie composed of small, round, nucleated cells, having no alveolar arrangement, and with, in some places, an abundant intercellular substance. No sign of mucous tissue. Prognosis bad. Feb. 6.—Pt. is comfortable. Temp. 99°.