CASES OF RUPTURE OF THE CHOROID. The force of the blow was sufficient to cause him to fall, and remain for some minutes Uncon- scious. The accident occurred in the Central Park, and lie was taken to his home in the upper part of the city. Soon afterward he complained of great pain in the eye, and vomited several times. lie could not see at all with the injured eye. When I examined him Nov. 14, there was some swelling of the lids, but no ecchymosis. The eye was intolerant of light, and there was a slight degree of circum- corneal injection. There was a moderate, somewhat irregular dilatation of the pupil, a deep anterior chamber, but no tremulousness of the iris. Oblique illumination discovered the fact that there was a small detachment of the iris from its ciliary margin (iridodyalisis) upward and outward, and that its pupillary margin was ruptured below and outward. The ophthalmoscopic examination, which was difficult on account of the irritability of the eye, showed the refractive media to be clear. Between the optic disc and the macula there was a considerable extravasation of blood into the retina, and also one patch of small size near the lower border of the optic disc. The retina in all its outer part was oedematous. Movements of the hand could be seen only on the temporal side. There was no pain. The diagnosis entered in my book was, (Edema and hemorrhage of retina; probably caused by a rup- ture of the choroid. The patient was confined to bed in a darkened room, six leeches put on the temple, a brisk cathartic given, mercurial ointment rubbed into his eyebrow, and a solution of atropine instilled three times a day. Nov. 23.—Under this plan of treatment, the blood rapidly absorbed, and five days later, it was possible to see a large white patch in the fundus, with the borders still fringed by hemorrhage. I now made the positive diagnosis of rupture of the choroid, which up to this time had only been conjectural. His eye was, however, still rather irritable, and intolerant of light. While directing him to look strongly downward, in order to better see the extent of the rent in the choroid, a small, dark, roundish object came into view, which, on urging him to look still more downwards, fell on the bed. It was a buck-shot, which had been in this position between the lid and the eye since the date of the injury. Upon examining more carefully, I could see a distinct indentation in the globe, behind the equator, and about midway between the corneal margin and outer cantlms. This was undoubtedly the foreign body which had inflicted the injury by striking the globe directly, and by the spasmodic action of the lids immediately following, been retained in this situation. lie could now count fingers in the upper and temporal part of field. By the 12th of December, not quite one month after I had first examined him, the very extensive rupture in the choroid could be seen. The eye was now free from irritation, the pupil middle wide, atropine discontinued; with eccentric fixation fingers could be counted at 15'. From this time on, there was gradual improvement; vision rose to ; and the extent and character of the choroidal rent became more distinctly visible. On January 3 the drawing of the fun- dus, Fig. 4, was made ; it is drawn as seen in the inverted image. The drawing was carefully made, and is an exact representation of the ophthalmoscopic picture. The laceration may, for convenience of description, be described as consisting of two parts, a perpendicular or transverse, and a horizontal one, which are, however, united into one. The trans- verse rupture is curved, with its coucave surface turned towards the disc, and situated in the immediate vicinity of the macula lutea. It is about 4 D. in length, and its mean breadth 1 D.; but its centre blends into the transverse rupture. [ 1«]