SECONDARY MYELOID DISEASE OF PLEURA AND LUNG. Autopsy.—Body emaciated. No return of disease in the stump. Morbid condition confined to the chest. On removal of the sternum the mass, represented in the plate, was seen projecting from the anterior border and under surface of the upper lobe of the left lung, covering the pericardium, pushing back and compressing the lung, and occupying the greater part of the mammary region. It was not closely adherent to the sternum or ribs in front; behind it was attached to and grew from the pleura, and had extended for about an inch into the lower part of the anterior border of the upper lobe. Anterior surface was irregular, presenting grayish-white, fleshy prominences, mixed with areas of a dark maroon color. On section the tumor presented an alveolated appearance from the number of irregular cysts scattered through it. They varied in size from a pea to a marble, and contained a red- dish fluid. In the centre of the growth the texture had a brownish color and was interspersed with hemorrhages. The upper lobe was compressed and airless, the lower crepitant; no secondary masses. Between the diaphragm and the pleura was a mass the size of an apple, having the same general char- acters as the larger one. Right Lung—A large flattened mass covered the upper lobes in front and above, and was closely united to the costal pleura. The lower lobe was free, but behind, near the spine, there was a rounded growth the size of an orange. On removal, the upper half of the organ looked rough and shreddy where it had been torn away from the ribs, the impressions of which crossed it transversely. The tissue was reddish-brown, with white, fleshy-looking masses scattered through it, and here and there a dark sanguineous cyst. Section of the upper lobe showed that its tissue was invaded; the hinder portion alone remained and Avas flattened. Upon the middle lobe were two firm, grayish-wliite masses, which on section Avere like recently formed spongy bone, reddish in color and with numerous ossific spicules scattered through the tissue. Two smaller growths of a similar character Avere on the anterior margin of lower lobe. The rounded tumor near the spine presented osseous spots at the periphery, Avhile the central part Avas occupied by a large hemorrhage. The bronchial glands were not involved, nor were the lymph glands in the groins or abdomen. The histological characters of the growths corresponded to myeloid sarcoma. The chief elements Avere spindle cells, among which the multinuclear giant cells Avere imbedded. (Fig. 118.) In many regions these Avere scanty or absent, and the growth Avas like a spindle-celled sarcoma. This Avas most evident in the masses on and in the right lung. In the mass on the left pleura the condition on section, with the numerous cystic spaces, Avas just such as Mr. Gray describes as myelo- eystic tumors. The giant-celled sarcomata are not often lolloAved by secondary groAvths; but when they do occur, the lungs are apt to be the seat ot the recurrence. This case is similar, in many respects, to one published by Dr. AVilks. {Path. Transactions, Vol. IX.) Fig. 118. [ ]