[ 45 1 THE HISTORY OF THREE CASES OF HIP-DISEASE IN THE THIRD STAGE. BY A. B. JUDSON, M.D., Orthopedic Surgeon to the Out-Patient Department of the New York Hospital. Case I.—Was of a boy, get. six years, who presented an enormous abscess and all the usual symptoms of the third stage of hip-disease, which was of nineteen months’ duration. The abscess had advanced so far that a spontaneous opening occurred on the same day in which the patient was first examined, and before treatment could be instituted. The child’s general condition was bad. The limb was strongly flexed and adducted. The slightest attempts at motion elicited screams of pain. Exsection had already been urged by a medical attendant. Mechanical treatment was begun the sixth day after the patient was first examined. The appa- ratus used was the long hip-splint, first described by Dr. C. Fayette Taylor in 1867. Its essential parts are a pelvic band carrying two perineal straps which are applied to the ischiatic and pubic regions of the pelvis, for counter-extension, and a strong upright containing a sliding bar moved by a rack and pinion and having a rectangular piece extending under the sole of the foot. Adhesive plasters are attached to the limb and buckled to the foot-piece of the splint to ensure extension. A piece of webbing was buckled round the splint and the lower part of the thigh, although it is believed that the fixation power of the apparatus is increased by the substitution for this webbing, of a U-shaped piece of steel which retains the femur more nearly in a line parallel with the upright of the splint. This apparatus was used with a two-fold object; first, to afford a reasonable degree of immobility to the joint, and, secondly, to facilitate locomotion by acting as an ischiatic crutch. With the addition of an elevated shoe to the foot of the unaffected limb, the patient was about the house daily from almost the very beginning of treatment, and the affected limb was as free from concussion in locomotion as if it had been a naturally pendent member, calling to mind the words of the entertaining writer, M. Hennequin : “ Mais le corps humain pent il conserver pendant des mois entiers 1’attitude verticale, touchant le sol par un pied seulement ? Evidemment non, cest au-dessus de ses forces. L’avenir nous reserve sans doute de grandes surprises, et ce qui est impossible aujourd’hui deviendra peut etre facile demain.” (Archives generates de medecine, Jan. 1869, p. 64.)