[ 44 ] SPINAL CARIES, WITH PARAPLEGIA. Bcropical examination, cutting specimens from 1, the cervical enlargement, 2, the upper dorsal region four-fifths of an inch above the limit of compression, 3, the same distance below the lower limit of compression, and 4, from the lower part of the lumbar enlargement. “ The above sections were examined in two ways: 1. In a saturated solution of acetate of potassa, without staining. This was to show the granular bodies. 2. By Clarke’s method, to show the atrophy of nerve tube in parts, and the sclerosis of the neuroglia. Sections Xo. 1, treated by acetate of potassa, showed very exquisitely the lesion of ascending degeneration. The columns of Goll, or pos- terior median c >lumns, were filled with granular bodies. Sections Xo. 2, seemed quite extensively altered, granular bodies being found almost throughout the section—probably from pressure causing ischaemia of the parts. Besides the above, granular bodies were found in small number in the external part of the posterior lateral columns—the ascending cerebellar fasciculi of Flechsig. “ Below the seat of pressure, sections 3 and 4 showed the usual descending degenerative changes in the white columns, the mass of granular bodies occupying the outer and posterior part of the anterior lateral columns. The sections prepared by staining with carmine and by Clarke's method afterward, showed the same ascending and descending degeneration, evidenced not by granular bodies, but by atrophy of nerve fibres and increase of the neuroglia. Xo lesion existed in the gray matter, and the cells of the anterior horns seemed normal. In other words, this examination shows that except at the seat of pressure, there were no lesions other than those of ascending and descending degeneration.” This case illustrates the now accepted theory of the production of paraplegia, and the different tissues successively attacked. First we have the carious ostitis of the bodies of the vertebrae, then by contiguity, an extension of the morbid process of the perimeningeal areolar tissue, the vertebral liga- ments, and the dura mater. This gives us the “paclnymeningite externe,” which is characterized by vegetations on the external surface of the dura mater, and by consecutive carious alterations which blend with the carious detritus in the bone. The cord, consequently, becomes compressed, a focus of myelitis is induced, and from this focus a tranverse myelitis arises. This is followed by a fasciculated sclerosis ascending through the posterior and descending through the lateral and anterior columns. It is not necessary to have any angular deformity ; the hospital records containing the history of several cases wherein complete paraplegia existed, and yet no bony deformity was found. Such cases are, however, exceptional. Pressure is often removed by the formation of an abscess, and recovery from the paralysis ensues, sometimes quite unexpectedly. Subsequent restoration of motion, in cases like this one, is the result of re-establishment of the circulation in that part by the removal of pressure. Xo fact is so well established as this one, viz.: that cases of paraplegia, with evidence of lesions as grave as those I have mentioned, do recover. “ It must be remembered that the sclerosis involves the neuroglia, and that the secondary degeneration takes the place of the white fasciculi con- necting the nerve tubes. Even should the envelope of myeline be destroyed, impulses can be trans- mitted through the axis cylinder, and should this be destroyed, the degeneration existing in tracts or bundles, other nerve tubes which remain intact may serve for the transmission of impulses.”* * “The Paralysis of Pott’s Disease,"’ Journal of Nervous and Mental Disease, April, 1878.