ILLUSTRATED MEDICINE AND SURGERY. [ 62 ] which, was intended to fill the opening, and thus present integument to the urethra. A corresponding raw surface was made anterior to, and around the fistula, so that on again turning the skin forward raw surfaces were brought in contact, while the central unrawed portion filled the opening. Moreover, the anterior end of the central unrawed little flap was partly dissected up and tucked within the urethra beneath the anterior edge of the fistula, this portion of the urethra having been previously carefully scraped with the knife. The cuts Nos. 53, 51 and 55 show the different steps of this operation. Fig. 55, A, the overhanging edge of skin turned back from over the fistula; D, the raw surface made on this flap; B, the central unrawed portion; C, the fistula; E, the raw surface made anterior to the fistula. F ig. 53, sectional view; C, the fistula; A, large skin flap; B, central unrawed portion. In big. 51, the flaps are seen in position, B indicating the small flap of skin tucked into the urethra. This inner flap was held in position in this manner. Two fine sutures, each armed at both ends with curved needles, were first passed through the end of the flap, the needles were then passed into the urethra and out through its floor anterior to the fistula. These sutures being then drawn tightly and knotted, the flap was drawn into place, and firmly held there. The adjacent edges of the outer raw surfaces were also firmly stitched. Union took place rapidly and completely, and there remained only the posterior linear opening. The situation of this is indicated in Fig. 52, A. This fistula was also closed at the first attempt, on June 29, 1876. The perinseal wound had healed and was again opened. I first marked out a small flap on the right, having its base at the edge of the opening. The rest of the margin of the fistula was rendered completely raw for the reception of another flap, to be described. The small flap being then turned over, integument was presented to the fistulous opening, and the edges of the flap having been tucked within those of the fistula, it was stitched in place. To cover the raw surface which surrounded the inverted flap, as well as to cover and help nourish the inverted flap itself, a long flap was cut from the scrotum, which was easily drawn forward and stitched in place. Before the stitches were applied to the edges of the scrotal flap, several fine sutures were passed through its cutaneous surface from without inwards, then through the raw surface to which it was applied, and then out again to the cutaneous surface. These sutures being then drawn tightly, and knotted, served to hold the raw surfaces firmly together. Lastly, stitches were applied all about the