ILLUSTRATED MEDICINE AND SURGERY. f 90 ] intrinsic products. The fibres are straight, or in short curves, and transversely marked at regular intervals. The ends are fibrillated and the tibrillae of nearly an equal length. Although slightly resembling a tube-cast, the large diameter (not varying much from Ar °f an inch) will alone sufficiently serve to distinguish them. Like cotton or woollen fibre, the color will vary with its source. Wot unfrequently cat-hairs (d) beget annoyance, especially when of small diameter and after long maceration. As depicted in its normal condition, we note a granular centre enclosed in transparent walls. On prolonged soaking in water the granular centre becomes less defined, and if the hair be, as it may, the diameter of a tube- cast, and the length also, in con- formity, the appearance honestly apes a granular tube-cast, and, unless we ob- serve with some care, our conclusion will be erroneous. On careful scrutiny, the ends of the suspected cast will be found distinct and irregular— com- monly cremate—with a cup-shaped de- pression in the end, probably formed by the separation of the granular mat- ter, and leaving the wall projecting. Adding acetic acid (glacial) the ob- ject will become homogenous under an objective of \ inch, but will again betray the original characteristic struc- ture on the addition of the carmine solution ; however, as a rule, the length of the specimen, and the progressive tapering, preclude a possibility of mis- Cat-hairs of a large diameter (d) markedly differ from the small hair. In the place Fig. 89. take. of a granular centre there are distinct, closely placed transverse striae, limited on either side by a homogeneous wall. In all specimens the ends are non-fibrous. Human hair (e) is exceedingly easy of identity. Its visibility to the unaided eye, length, distorted ends with the short fibrillae, link as adequate evidence for the recognition of the object and to exclude the possibility of its being a cast. Fibres of silk, Fig. 89 (e), particularly if uncolored, commonly approach more nearly the tube cast, in size, than any of the preceding objects, and indeed are closely allied in appearance to some specimens of hyaline casts. The diagnosis must mainly rest upon their smooth, clean cut, and glistening appearance, fibrous extremities, the regularity in the relative size of the specimens (if more than one be present), the small diameters, and the rapidity of the staining with carmine. Portions of feathers (<?, d) occasionally find access to the sputa and urine, but as they bear no apt resemblance to normal or pathological ingredients, they require no special treatment. The straight, barbed iila are generally separated from their shaft an 1 are numerous. Although they have been