FACIAL PARALYSIS. [ 29 ] T1 ie view of this patient when the face was in repose gives the characteristic facial expression in this affection ; the eyes have a horridly staring look, while the entire face is an expressionless blank. When trying to explain the symptoms of his case the difficulty experienced in enunciation, together with the nasal tone and collapsing of the nostrils—the latter preventing the entrance of air into the nose—caused the patient to exert himself in a most painful manner, yet the face gave no evidence of the struggle taking place. The absence of nearly all of the teeth rendered articulation still more difficult. When an effort was made to close the mouth and eyes, the former was accomplished by the action of the temporal, masseter and internal pterygoid muscles; the patient was, however, inclined to use his hand when requested to bring the jaws together. It was not possible to close the eyes, but he was able to roll them upwards and inwards, the lower lid remaining inactive, the upper lid dropping down slightly by its own weight; the effect of the display of the lower portion of the cornea between the widely separated lids was ghastly in the extreme. Fortunately for these cases, the levator palpebrse not being supplied by the facial nerve, the upper lid can be raised from the eye. The cause of the paralysis in this case is somewhat in doubt. There is a possibility that the morbid process which gave rise to it may have been at the base of the brain ; if so, it was probably syphilitic. There are reasons, however, for believing that the cause wTas peripheral, the most impor- tant of which are the aural symptoms ; the attacks followed colds during which there were pains in the neighborhood of the ear and disturbances of the functions of both the transmitting and perceptive regions of the ear. The exact seat of the lesion, if peripheral, cannot be told, for there were but slight morbid changes in the ear perceptible to the eye, and the patient did not return again to have the sense of taste, etc,, tested.* The symptoms accompanying Bell’s paralysis are so familiar to the profession that I shall only venture to offer the above cases as a contribution to the literature of the subject, and as pointing to diseased processes about the ear as a frequent cause, leaving the discussion of the strictly neurological aspect of the disease to those who make a special study of the subject. The nearness of the aqueductus Fallopii to the middle-ear, which is well known to be specially obnoxious to colds, would seem to account for the frequency of paresis of the facial nerve in disease of the ear rather than cold affecting the nerve after it has left the stylo-mastoid foramen. It is well known to otologists that grave aural disease may exist for a long time without implicating the facial nerve : —and is it not probable that the Fallopian canal may, in some instances, from its defectiveness, afford inadequate protection to the nerve ? * For other features of this, especially as regards the hearing, see American Journal of Otology, vol. II., p. 304. [Note. In the artotype illustrations the right and left sides are transposed us in a mirror.]