CASE OF DUODENAL ULCER [ 57 1 BY FRANCIS WAYLAND CAMPBELL, M.A., M.D., L.R.C.P. Lond. Professor of the Theory and Practice of Medicine, Medical Faculty, University of Bishop's College, Montreal. Duodenal ulcer is not a very common disease, although not so rare as some authors would lead us to infer. Within the past six years, several cases have been met with in Montreal, and this one— the history of which I will very briefly detail—was possessed of several interesting clinical facts. W. B., at the time of his death (1878), was 38 years of age, and being an intimate friend, was almost con- stantly under observation for over ten years. Just before forming his acquaintance he commanded a ship trading to the West Indies, which was wrecked, and he suffered much hardship. lie then became a life insurance agent, and was most irregular in his meals. Flatulence about dinner time was often distressing, and whenever his feet were cold, a severe pain was located about the pyloric opening of the stomach. This disappeared when the circulation in the feet increased their temperature. In 1871, while absent from home, and shortly after an attack of flatulence and pain, he vomited at least a pint of blood. He, however, made a rapid recovery, and continued in fair health till the winter of 1874—75, when, on hurrying one evening to overtake the horse cars, he was seized with sudden faint- ness, accompanied by great blanching of the features. Some hours afterwards he passed a very large black stool, which was soon followed by a second. Several times during this winter, after more than usual exertion, he had fainting turns, followed by either vomiting of blood or its passage per rectum. I diagnosed gastric ulcer, and believed it was situated just inside the pylorus, which opinion was con- firmed by several medical friends, who saw the case in consultation. Rectal alimentation was suggested, but was refused. Under a bland, but nourishing diet, he slowly regained fair health. As soon as he returned to work, whenever he became irregular in his meals, the epigastric pain would return, but it was not till the summer of 1870, that any vomiting of blood again occurred. With this exception he enjoyed apparently good health till the winter of 1877, when pain became again a prominent symptom, but without loss of blood. A milk diet rigidly carried out for a couple of months, and then for a couple of months more with the addition of either sago or arrow-root, not only gave ease but brought him into summer in such excellent condition, that I hoped the worse was passed. Unfortunate exposure, while heated, to the cool night air, brought on a chill, which was soon followed by intense gastric pain. The