FACIAL PARALYSIS OCCURRING IN CONNECTION WITH AURAL DISEASE. WITH TWO ILLUSTRATIVE CASES. BY SAMUEL SEXTON, M. IX, Aural Surgeon to the New TorJe Gilg Eye and Ear Infirmary. Case I.—Facial paralysis of the right side-caused by necrosis of the petrous bone, occurring in a case of chronic purulent inflammation of the middle-ear:—see Plate IV., two upper figures, the patient in repose, and the same patient endeavoring to laugh. The case was a woman, nineteen years of age. When about ten years old she experienced buzz- imr in the right ear. Coming for treatment in November, 1880, she stated that the ear never dis- charged until six months previously; commencing after “ pains and a gathering ” in the ear. Four months ago she caught a severe cold in the head, and one week afterwards she found on getting up in the morning that the right side of the face was paralyzed ; the mouth was drawn to the left, and she was unable to close the right eye. She was not suffering pain when she came for treatment, but previously she had suffered much from neuralgia in the right temporal region, perhaps partly from dental caries. For the past four months the attacks have been of a more distinctly paroxysmal character. For the past two months she was never free of vertigo, and was in constant fear of falling backwards; her -'ait is staggering. When pressed for a statement respecting the duration of the aural disease, she admitted that the ear had always had a bad odor. On examination, a large polypus was seen to almost fill the right external auditory canal, and the probe detected the presence of a detached sequestrum of bone deep in the canal. The polypus, which was attached to the superior posterior wall of the canal, near its outer extremity, was removed by the snare, and the sequestrum was immediately afterwards brought away by the foreign body forceps. The latter came away with difficulty, although the external auditory canal was fortunately very large. The sequestrum, when examined, proved to consist of a plate of irregularly rounded bone about one-fourth of an inch in diameter, one portion of which was very thin, and the other nearly a quarter of an inch in thickness. This sequestrum was examined by Prof. J. D. Bryant and myself, and is believed to consist of the roof of the tympanum and a portion of the mastoid body just external to the hiatus [ 37 ]