t 81 ] TWO LARGE TUMORS OF THE FEMALE BREAST. BY WILLIAM T. BULL, M.D., Surgeon to St. Luke's and Chambers Street Hospitals, New York. I. Spindle-celled sarcoma of the female breast. Removal followed by recurrence and death from exhaustion. Secondary deposits in the brain, lungs and retro-peritoneal glands. M. Id., a widow, ret. 42, a native of Ireland, has always been in good health till her present trouble, and has never suffered any injury. No children. Four years ago a hard nodule appeared just ' above the nipple of the left breast. It was the size of a marble, and painless. The menses ceased about this time. The lump increased in size slowly, and up to nine months ago it had reached half its present dimensions without giving rise to annoyance other than from its weight. Since then, how- ever, it has grown rapidly, and been very painful at times, and she has lost appetite, flesh and strength. Sloughs appeared on the surface of the tumor after applying poultices, and a highly offensive, thin discharge issued from beneath them. To obtain subsistence she begged in the streets, exhibiting the growth to passers-by. Finally, unable to obtain food, she applied to the Chambers Street Hospital, in a condition of extreme exhaustion, and after two days’ care was transferred to the Hew York Hospital. On admission she is extremely emaciated and weak; features pinched, eyes sunken, stomach irritable, and rejecting all but small quantities of fluid diet. P. 104, weak; R. 32; T. 101.6. The tumor occupies the left mammary region, and is half as large again as the woman’s head. It is smallest at its base, and freely movable on the chest-walls. The surface is smooth, but uneven, hard in some parts, soft in others, and the skin covering it movable, thinned, traversed by large veins, and presents three superficial sloughs, each two inches in diameter, which discharge a thin, stinking pus. Ho axil- lary glands to be felt. Heart and lungs normal. The following day she was somewhat stronger, but the evening temperature was 103° ; P. 106. Urine, sp. gr. 1020, no albumen. Ho evidence of internal deposits. Stimulants, quinine and fluid nourishment. Moderate pain, occasional vomiting. On the third day the sloughing of the surface had extended, the stench was overpowering, and the discharge more profuse. The ulcers were disinfected with Labarraque’s solution, and the atmos- phere of the room saturated with spray of carbolic acid. General condition a trifle better. After consultation with Dr. T. M. Markoe it was decided to operate.