ELASTIC TENSION IN POTTS DISEASE. [ 79 ] tliat lie ecmld not touch the floor with his toes, and he always cried. Each time, upon removal of the jacket, the skin over the projecting spine was found to be excoriated, and required treatment for several days before the application of another one. This treatment was continued nearly a year. The spinal deformity, as might have been supposed, rapidly increased. Moving to blew York, the father now consulted Dr. F. W. O’Brien, who upon examination of the case recommended that the patient be placed under my care, which was done on the above-named date. At that time the distortion had reached the unsightly degree represented in Figs. 76 and 77. Upon inquiring as to the patient’s sufferings and clinical history, the father, naturally not a very acute observer, could give me almost no information. The patient, however, testified to no special pain or discomfort. He ate without complaint what he wished of food set before him, and no marked disturbance of sleep had been observed. What a contrast are these statements to the picture actually presented to the immediate eyes of the observer (Vide Figs. 76 and 77), and how ineffectual are words to portray the details of that picture. Such a patient may complain very little, or not at all, and yet, an observing eye will not fail to detect the evidences of long continued suffering in the changed facial expression, the altered respiratory and cardiac movements, the conduct and condition of the extremities, and in fact, that of the whole body. A strong man may suppress outward mani- festations of hunger when food is placed before him, but he can not prevent the watering of his mouth, or the secretion of gastric juice. Fig. 76, although not showing all the details which could be wished, will serve to convey to the mind something of an idea of that pitiful expression of countenance which indicates hopelessness on the part of the little sufferer from ever escaping from the cause of pain. The forehead is transversely and perpendicularly furrowed and ridged, the corrugators and other facial muscles are tetanized, the nos- trils dilated, the corners of the mouth drawn down, and there is a hopeless, semi-fixed gaze of the eyes. Upon being suspended my little patient expressed himself as feeling much better, though he had not previously complained. Ilis respiration, which had been grunting in character, became more natural, and the expression of his face less anxious. On December 3d, 1881, 1 applied a plaster jacket over a skin-fitting knit shirt. During this operation two assistants were employed, one hold- ing the shoulders and the other the hips of the patient in such a way as to correct as much as possible the lateral distortion and rotation of the spine. By this means and the suspension of the patient, the deformity was at once very considerably ameliorated, and an accurately fitting jacket being applied, approximately secured the patient in the improved position. Three months later, upon removal, this jacket was found to weigh twenty ounces. Within the following ten months I saw the patient three times, and applied as many new jackets after the plan above described. At the end of this time, during suspension, no rotation or lateral deviation of the spine was observable. However, as 1 have not infrequently noticed in other cases, so in this, notwithstanding there was no deviation of the spine during suspension, and no deficiency of skill in the application of the jacket, aJateral tilt (Vide Fig. 78), showed itself when the patient was allowed to stand upon his feet, owing to the greater weakness of the lumbar muscles upon one side of the vertebrae. To overcome this I made nseof a solid elastic cord applied in the manner I have already Fig. 81.