L ] SYPHILITIC STENOSIS OF TIIE LARYNX: TRACHEOTOMY. BY CHARLES H. KNIGHT, M.D., Assistant Surgeon, Manhattan Eye and Ear Hospital. The patient, a boy sixteen years of age, was brought to the N. Y. Eye and Ear Infirmary, June 19, 1880, suffering with intense dyspnoea and completely aphonic. Ilis face was deeply cyanosed, and wore a frightened expression, and the lad was so exhausted as to be hardly able to walk. It was learned that breathing had been difficult for nearly a week, and that the condition became alarming the day previous. A hurried examination showed excessive deformity of the pharynx and larynx, due to cicatrices and submucous infiltration. The obstruction being evidently laryngeal, and the symptoms urgent, tracheotomy was at once performed, no anaesthetic being used, to the immediate relief of the patient’s distress. Nothing unusual occurred in the course of the operation. On investigating the history of the case it was found that there had been, two years previous, a double interstitial keratitis, and a second attack six months later, resulting in impaired vision, and that three years previous there had been extensive chronic ulceration of the pharynx. A similar, but less severe, attack of dyspnoea occurred about two months before coming to the Infirmary. That attack yielded to mixed treatment, which was so energetic as to cause salivation and loss of most of the teeth. It was also discovered that the mother had acquired syphilis, possibly from her husband, several years prior to the birth of this boy (her fourth child), three other children having died in infancy of unknown causes ; the father is reported to have died eight years ago, of “ lung disease,” after an illness of more than ten years. A laryngoscopic examination of the patient two days after the operation revealed entire absence of the epiglottis, and general thickening of the mucous membrane of the vestibule of the larynx, with- out ulceration, the vocal cords not being visible. The parts were but slightly congested. The pha- rynx was found to be excessively deformed by cicatricial contractions; the soft palate was adherent to the posterior pharyngeal wall, and the cavities of the pharynx and naso-pharynx communicated near the median line by an aperture barely large enough to admit the tip of the forefinger. There were no points of ulceration. No other indications of syphilis were detected, except those resulting from the affection of the eyes eighteen months previous. Treatment with mercurial inunctions and iodide of potash internally was attended by sub- sidence of the laryngeal infiltration to a degree permitting the withdrawal of the canula in two weeks. The tracheal wound healed within a week later.