EXTRANEOUS MICROSCOPIC MATTER IN ANIMAL FLUIDS. 1 91 ] confounded with nerve tubes, no rational excuse will exculpate the microscopist for the error. The regular barbs on the secondary shaft and the fine filament emanating from the terminal barb amply prove the specimen to be feather. Mineral matter (y) is also frequently present. Their presence largely depends upon the deposit of dust. In size and contour they are extremely variable, some particles are large, others small, some rough and ragged, others smooth and polished. I have sometimes thought it possible to learn of the locality of the patients’ dwelling simply by means of the lineaments of these mineral particles. When rough, angular, and slightly translucent, I intuitively associate with them a dry, sandy locality; when more regular, and with smooth, polished corners, the action of attrition in water is probable; opaque particles of conglomerate character indicate damp, low land, while rough opaque granules may fairly be recognized as an attribute of ordinary dry soil. Translucent particles of silica are occasionally confounded with epithelial debris, but may be accurately distinguished by their imperviousness to coloring matter. The fibres of coniferous wood (a, b) are the best calculated to deceive of any extraneous matter ever present in the urine. By manipulation with needles fixed in a wooden handle, the fibres become separated and disseminated in the fluids under inspection. In water they become soft and swollen, and may appear like tube-casts. When the outline and size are in common with tube-casts, the pores (well shown in b) decidedly resemble the epithelial cells in casts. When large masses are present (b) the peculiar conformation of coniferous wood is competent for distinction, but in isolated fibres containing only two or three pores, and these more or less distorted by the swelling of the fibre, identity is difficult, and the confounding of the latter with a tube-cast not infrequent. If we view the fibre—the suspected cast—with care it will be noticed that the fibre and epithelium-like cells are more distinct than in a true cast of its type, the supposed nucleus in the centre of the cell is unduly large and without a nucleolus, while carmine rapidly stains the whole substance except the nucleus. Acetic acid notes no specific actions. If the definite of the object-glass be good, the suspected nucleus may be resolved into a pit in the cell. Occasionally the ends will have a jagged outline, which will assist in diagnosis. Dr. Richardson (Med. Microscopy, 1871) suggests a rule which, in some doubtful cases, may be of assistance. He advised that the thin cover glass be firmly pressed with a mounted needle over the suspected body, as seen with a half-inch objective, when, if a tube-cast, it will be crushed beneath the force applied, whilst the cover glass would probably break before a hair, or a body like wood fibre would be more than slightly flattened. The writer remembers a ludicrous error, created by one of these fibres, which has since served to emphasize the dangers of mistaken identity of these objects, and also to fix in mind the specific characters of the deal fibre. A microscopist of considerable experience, while examining some vomit to determine if it contained evidences of malignant disease, encountered, as the only evidence of disease, a coniferous fibre, which lie construed to resemble an exfoliated fragment of the gastric mucous membrane. The structure of the specimen was fully appreciated, but misinterpreted. The pores were thought to represent the openings of the gastric follicles, while the peculiar cellular structure was believed to be the result of long maceration and pathological variation. The specimen was exhibited to a microscopical society of one of our large cities, was duly examined and discussed, yet its real nature was not disclosed, and, in fact, not known by its discoverer until some months later. , Some months ago, in examining sputa from a case of laryngeal phthisis, in which the ulceration