ILLUSTRATED MEDICINE AND SURGERY. [ 48 ] be expected to increase with tlie further growth of the patient. The position of the sinuses is shown in the figures. The cicatrices are firm, deeply depressed, and in some instances attached to the bone beneath. They are numbered in the order in which the sinuses made their appearance. The family history of this case shows no evidence of scrofula. Case II.—Was that of a girl, three years of age, whose mother died of consumption while the child was under my care. The family history showed that not only the mother, but also the maternal grandmother and three paternal uncles and aunts had died of phthisis pulmonalis. The disease was in the right hip, and had existed at least one year. Previous mechanical treatment had been by an immovable dressing of plaster of Paris, and afterwards by the use of a long hip-splint furnished with a single perineal strap, and applied without adhesive plasters. This splint was constructed with a joint at the level of the knee, for the purpose of assisting locomotion, which was further facilitated by the use of Darrach's wheel crutch. When first seen the child presented the marked adduction and flexion of the thigh characteristic of the third stage, and had suffered for several weeks the intense pain which is usually the forerunner of abscesses communicating with the joint. The treatment adopted was identical with that of Case I. Under its use the pain abated, and the position of the limb improved, Fig. 40. Fig. 42. Fig. 41. adduction giving place to abduction, and the flexion being materially diminished. But the abscess was not prevented. Five months after beginning treatment it was opened, and the sinus thus established on the outer surface of the thigh was followed, in the ensuing eighteen months, by five others, variously placed about the joint, which secreted an abundant and offensive pus, evidently from carious bone. The hip and upper part of the thigh were enormously swollen. During this period the treatment aimed at protecting the joint from motion and concussion and at fortifying the system so that Nature might check the destructive process, and substitute healthy or cicatricial tissue for that which was disintegrated. The treatment by tonics and roborants, viz., cod-liver oil, the more nutritive wines, chalybeates, &c., was apparently very much assisted by the use of a splint which allowed of locomotion in the erect position. With the exceptions to be mentioned, the patient, throughout