[ 123 ] A TERATOLOGICAL CONTRIBUTION. BY GEO. J. ENGELMANN, M.D, OF ST. LOUIS, Professor of Obstetrics in the Post Graduate School of the Missouri Medical College, St. Louis. Although Teratology has advanced with the progress of embryology, it still lags far behind its sister science and may be said to be as yet in its infancy, the tardy development of this science being due to a superstitious dread and a feeling of abhorrence for monstrosities and deformities of all kinds, innate to man, common to all people and all civilizations, more fully developed the more primitive the people, yielding to a certain extent to civilization, but completely overcome by advanced science only. The instinctive dread of monstrosities is so great among primitive people that the new-born child, if in any way seriously deformed, is at once put to death and done away with. This superstition among some peoples even extends to twins, and not only does the new-born infant suffer, but even the innocent mother is exiled or punished in other ways. Among the more tolerant tribes the more slightly deformed are indeed permitted to live, but they are endured merely as objects of pity; they nourish and clothe themselves as best they can, keeping out of sight of their people. So universal are these customs, more or less stringent, that so close an observer as Alexander von Humboldt makes the statement that deformities are extremely rare, if ever occurring, among primitive peoples. The fact is that few are permitted to live, and those who do live exist as best they can in solitude and exile. The Romans, while avoiding them, venerated them, as being gifted with peculiar powers. Cicero speaks of them : De Divinatione, 1.: “ Monstra, ostenta, portenta, prodigias nominantur, quia monstrant, ostendunt, portendunt et. praedicunt.” During the middle ages they were again looked upon as products of hell and Satan, as it was believed that God could not form such horrible creatures, and this, of course, prevented the study of these unfortunate beings. They were regarded as a Sijnum vmlimninis. The remarkable oddity of form and peculiarity of shape often exhibited led to the most remarkable deductions, which were greatly furthered by fabulous descriptions and truly monstrous illustrations; and to these wanderings of imaginative minds was the science of teratology confined up to the end of the seventeenth century. The authors approved of the barbarous laws of the Greeks and Romans, condemning monstrosities to