[ 39 ] PLASTIC OPERATIONS FOR LOSS OF NOSE, FTC. of skin. Knowing of a case reported by Hardie, of Manchester, England, in which he had made use of the last phalanx of the left forefinger to form a nose, the idea having been suggested to him by his house-surgeon, Mr. Tytler, I offered to do a somewhat similar operation if my patient would assume his share of the risk, which was that the operation might fail, and he would then have lost a finger and still have no nose. He expressed willingness to lose a second finger if the first operation should fail. The last phalanx of middle finger of left hand having been frozen, the nail was torn out and the matrix scraped and burned with nitric acid. December 12, 1879.—-The surface from which the nail was torn has healed, the matrix having been apparently destroyed. A plaster of Paris jacket was fitted to the chest, and when hard was slit up at one side, so that if difficulty of respiration should occur during the operation, it could easily be removed. Tins was joined to a plaster of Paris helmet, which covered the upper surface and sides of head, and back of neck. A curved incision, AB, Fig. 29, was then made, and the skin and fascia detached from parts beneath, so as to form a pocket represented by the dotted outline. Incisions BDFH and ACEGi were then made, the edge of knife being directed deeply toward the middle line, to enable the edges of the two flaps to be turned toward the median line in such a way that the under raw surfaces of the flaps would look nearly forwards. The skin was then so dissected off the flaps as to present two raw surfaces. Figs. 31 and 32. From the lower half of last phalanx the entire skin was removed. Fig. 30. An incision was made along the middle of the palmar surface of the second and upper half of the third phalanx, and two transverse, one opposite the palmar surface of the first phalangeal articulation, the other opposite the middle of the last phalanx. These transverse incisions passed about one-half round the finger. The finger flaps thus formed were dissected up as deeply as the sheath of the tendons. A silver suture, armed with a needle at each end, was then passed transversely through finger near the tip. The needles were passed into the pocket, brought out at X, and traction being made on the wire, the finger tip was drawn up into the pocket, in which it was concealed. The ends of the wire were then twisted together, holding the finger in place. The edges of the finger flaps were then stitched to BDFH and ACEG the under surface of the face flaps coming against the under surface of the finger flaps, and the denuded skin surface of the face flap coming against the raw side and palmar surface of finger. Fig. 29. After the finger had been partly stitched to the face, the patient, who had become more and more cyanosed, stopped breathing. A laryngotomy was done, and artificial respiration made, so that he soon breathed easily. The stitching of the flaps was then finished.