LAPAROTOMY. The following diagram, Fig. 11, will show the condition of affairs at this stage of the operation. I caught hold of the uterus on one side, and Dr. Ward on the other, each with a strong tenaculum, and dragged it firmly Tip into the abdominal wound, and passed two strong knitting-needles through the tumor and laid them on the ab- dominal walls above and below the point of puncture. 1 then passed two sutures deep down, and fastened the tumor in the abdominal wound, and left a tube in for drainage and irrigation. I remarked to the spec- tators present, that the woman would almost surely suffer from septicaemia, and this prediction was fully verified ; but by having the cavity constantly irrigated with carbolized water, and controlling the temperature by Kib- bee’s method of affusion, she re- covered. A day-to-day history would accomplish nothing in increasing the interest of the case, hence, I spare the reader a recapitulation of it. It suffices to say that the uterine cavity was thoroughly washed out with carbolized water every four or five hours ; the tem- perature, which rose to 106°, kept in the neighborhood of 100° by affusion ; and quinine and opium used freely; and the patient treated in all respects as she would have been after ovariotomy. At the next period, menstrual blood escaped simultaneously from the vagina and the abdom- inal wound, the drainage tube not having been removed from the latter. Never have I known more complete relief ensue from any operation than from this one. The patient constantly expressed her- self as entirely relieved, and is so well satisfied with her present condition that she is entirely unwilling to consider a procedure to which I shall soon allude for improving it. For her, however, to continue in her present state of comfort, it is evidently essential that the abdominal opening shall be kept free until the menopause. To accomplish this, as soon as the menstrual period was over, I had constructed a solid glass rod represented in actual size by Fig. 12.