ILLUSTRATED MEDICINE AND SURGERY. [ 78 ] instances tlie power, as will be seen, is applied external to the weakened muscles. As a permanent substitute for this finger-pressure, I have used, with entire satisfaction, the following appliance : In the center of a perforated strip of light tin about four or five inches long and three-eighths of an inch wide- ( Yide Fig. 80), a short, thin piece of steel plate bearing a small ring, is soldered. During the applica- tion of the jacket these pieces are incorporated between the layers of bandage, the rings being allowed to project from the surface at the points indicated above for the application of finger-pressure. After sufficient time has been allowed for the “ setting” of the gypsum, one end of a solid rubber cord, six or seven millimeters in diameter, is passed up through the lower ring, and fastened to the upper. (Vide Fig. 78.) Fig. 81 illustrates the manner of securing the lower end of the elastic cord. A strip of non- elastic webbing, long enough to reach from the ankle to the knee, is sewed to the top of the shoe on the outer side. This is passed to the inside of the stocking, through a button-hole just above the upper margin of the shoe, as shown in the figure. The free end of this strip of webbing is provided with a ring. Through this ring the lower end of the elastic cord is passed and drawn sufficiently tense to overcome the distension, when it is fastened by a simple half-hitch, or knot. To diminish the pro- jection of the belly, two elastic cords are necessary, one on each side. If, in addition, there is present a slight lateral tilt, it can be corrected by making greater tension with one or other of the elastic cords. This appliance can be used with any form of spinal support. In substituting the elastic cord for cross- finger-pressure, the power, as will be seen, is applied below the weakened muscles. I have had recourse to the same principle in correcting drooping of the head, due to weakness of the cervical muscles, occurring in the course of Pott’s disease. The following case demonstrates the utility of this appliance. It will also serve to show how failures in treatment may result from an imperfect knowledge of mechanical therapeutics, or want of skill on the part of the surgeon in the application of agencies at his command. The patient, a boy seven years old, having a good family history, first came under my observa- tion Nov. 17, 1880. Until a year previous to that date he was healthy, active and unusually tall for one of his age. About this time he received a sufficiently severe injury to his spine to account for the sudden development of his trouble. Not long afterward angular curvature began to show itself, and a metallic spinal brace was applied. This was subsecpiently replaced at intervals with a plaster jacket, weighing, according to the father’s statement, about four pounds. During the first application the patient was suspended mid-air by the head and axillae with an improvised apparatus while an as- sistant, laying hold of his ankles, made forcible downward traction. With the patient suspended in this fashion, crying and struggling as best he could to free himself, the plaster bandage was applied. The duration of the operation, I am informed, was from half to three-quarters of an hour. Instead of a skin-fitting vest under the jacket, an ordinary loose undershirt, covered with a thin layer of cotton, was used. The shirt necessarily became wrinkled when the gypsum dressing was applied, and the cotton prevented the accurate adaptation of the bandage to the inequalities of the trunk. Hence any improvement in position which might have resulted from suspension properly practiced could not have been secured by a jacket so ill applied. In the application of subsequent jackets some improve- ments in apparatus were made, but the patient was always drawn up by his head and arm-pits so