COMPOUND COMPLICATED IIARE-L1P. states, is overcome in a few days. My three patients had no trouble whatever in this respect. What the result would be if the operation was performed in early life, I have no means of knowing. From my own experience in operations upon the adult 1 can conclusively state that no improvement has ever taken place in the patient’s articulation. The reason is undoubtedly this: the newly formed palate is rigid, tense, and deficient in length, and in a large majority of cases it cannot be brought into apposition to the pharyngeal wall, so as to close the buccal from the nasal cavities; and unless this be done perfect articulation becomes impossible. The division of the palatine muscles, which is necessary in the performance of this operation, also interferes, to a certain extent, with the proper use of the organs in speech. While I have never seen a case in which the nasal twang was improved, I have seen a number of patients in whom an artificial palate rendered the articulation absolutely perfect. Norman W. Kingsley, M.D.S., D.D.S., of this city, who has paid a great deal of attention to this subject, has invented a soft artificial velum, which is so under the control of the surrounding and adjacent muscles, opening and closing the passages at will, that the wearer, after a certain amount of practice and edu- cation, acquires a perfect articulation. In one of my cases (No. Ill), Dr. Kingsley applied one of his artificial palates. Before introducing it an experiment was performed in my office, which I will describe in Dr. Kingsley’s own words: “ Altogether the most extensive deformity of this kind, and the one having the most disastrous influence on the speech that I have ever seen, was a young man upon whom Professor J. L. Little, of the College of Physicians and Surgeons, New York, operated for compound hare-lip, and who after- wards came into my hands for an artificial palate. * * * Previous to the introduction of the artificial palate the following experiment was tried in the presence of a number of well-known sur- geons : I wrote upon a slip of paper the following syllables, which the patient pronounced to the best of his ability, repeating each one several times: Bo, Lo, Ho, Mo, Ivo, Po, Go, No, &c. The sound given by him to each of these syllables was written by the gentlemen present as nearly as they could be understood. A comparison of the various records showed that the only unmistakable syllables of the whole list were Ko, Go, and IIo, all throat sounds. Of the doubtful ones, No and Mo wTere interchangeable, and so were Lo and Ko; and of all the others no sound that he gave was any clew to the syllable he was trying to pronounce.”* The velum was applied, and the patient remained under Dr. Kingsley’s instruction about two weeks only. lie then returned to his home, where he was practiced in correct pronunciation by Dr. Levi W. Case. He returned, in three months, and was able to read a page from a medical journal before a number of physicians so that every word was understood. I would urge, however, that the operation be performed if possible in early life, as recommended by Mr. Thomas Smith of St. Bartholomew’s Hospital,f with the hope that, as the organs develop with the growth of the child, this difficulty will be overcome and artificial means dispensed with. * A Treatise: on Oral Deformities, p. 462. f Transactions Medico-Chirurgical Society, Vol. LI., p. 79.