[ 152 ] PLASTIC OPERATIONS FOR DEFORMITY OF LOWER EYELLD. part of cheek were then separated from deep parts by a knife cutting beneath upper half of AB toward nose, until the lid could be pushed forward to nearly its natural position. The lifting forward of the lid left a pocket which had to be tilled, or the lid would have sunk back to its former malposition. To obviate this, the following operation was done. An incision was made from B to C down to the bone: another from A to C through slcin only. The skin was carefully detached from the triangle ABC. The flap ABC was then separated from parts beneath, as far as its base AC. It was raw on its anterior and posterior surfaces. Two sutures, armed with a needle at each end, were then passed through the flap near the apex B. The four needles were then successively passed behind the loosened lid (behind the upper half of AB) and brought out at E. Traction made upon the sutures dragged the flap behind the raised lid, so that the apex B was brought to E, the flap being concealed by lower eyelid and holding it forward. The sutures were then tied over a piece of elastic catheter. The space ABC, though but little diminished in size by the traction on the flap, which was dragged through the upper half of AB, could have been closed by bringing the edges together, but as this would have made tension on the lid and on the flap beneath it, the following operation was done. An incision was made from C to D, and the flap BCD detached from parts beneath. C was then brought to A, CB to AB, and CD to AD. Puckering along AD was nearly prevented by placing sutures at mid-point. May 25th. A fold of redundant skin near inner canthus removed. June 3d. Operation of May 3d not entirely successful. Repeated in nearly same way. Dis- charged July 11th. Sept. 19, 1878. Re-admitted. The upper eyelid still drops at its outer part, though not nearly so much as before operation. The lower lid is still too long, so that it is not applied closely to eyeball To remedy these defects, the following operation (Fig. 147) was done. 1 X, 1 Y are margins of upper and lower eyelids. Triangle 12 3 first marked out with knife, and skin removed. The same was done for 1 1 5, and a small part of lower tarsal cartilage at outer canthus removed. The flap 2 14 was then dissected up to a very small extent at its apex (shaded part), and slid up into 2 3 1, 12 being stitched to 3 2, and the upper half of 1 4 to 3 1. This raised the outer canthus and upper eyelid to proper position. 5 4 was then stitched to the lower half of 1 4, which remained below the raised outer canthus. This bn the lower lid into its proper place. Discharged cured, Sept. 23, 1878.