TWO LARGE TUMORS OF THE FEMALE BREAST. [ 83 ] with slight amount of intercellular connecting tissue. Tumors behind the peritoneum are of similar structure. The tumor of the brain is a round and spindle-celled sarcoma, as is also the tumor removed from the chest wall. II. Fibroma of the female breast (Fig. 83). Removal. Recovery. B. L., set. 10, a strong, healthy Irish woman, was admitted to the New York Hospital July 30, 1879. Married, but no children. Six years ago was kicked in the right breast, and had an inflamma- tory swelling there, which subsided without suppuration in a few weeks. A year later the breast began to enlarge, and has continued to do so till it is now as large as an adult head. She has had no pain m it, and has been inconvenienced only by its increased weight and bulk. On admission the right breast is as large as her head, the skin over it normal but thinned, and traversed by large veins. Nipple likewise normal. The surface of the tumor is irregular, but smooth and rounded, its outlines sharply de- fined, its consistence firm. It is not tender, and it is freely movable on the subjacent structures. No glands to be felt in the axilla. The tumor was removed August 2, 1879, antiseptically, but without spray. Two curved incisions including an elliptical portion of integu- ment, were made down to its capsule, and the mass readily enucleated. The sheath of the pec- toral muscle was healthy. No large blood-ves- sels. Catgut ligatures and silk sutures, two drains and a Lister dressing. Two dressings were applied in the following ten days, when the wound was completely closed except at the points of exit of the drains. No fever. Bals. Peru. Completely healed on the sixteenth day, and the woman discharged. The weight of the tumor was 3^ pounds. Its cut surface was firm and elastic, whitish in color, and yielded no juice on squeezing or scraping. Sections from various parts showed under the microscope a few spindle-cells thinly scattered in a stroma of well-defined fibrous tissue. Some dilated milk ducts were to be seen, and a few shrunken acini; very few blood-vessels. The great mass of each section is made up of fibrous tissue. The woman promised faithfully to report in case of recurrence. All efforts to find her now (three years having elapsed) are fruitless. But from the size of the growth, it is possible that a local recurrence has taken place. Gross states tins to have been the case in “ rather more than once in every sixteen cases.” The size of the tumor is its remarkable feature, since Billroth mentions one as large as a goose-egg as being of exceptional proportions. But Gross quotes one case in which the tumor weighed upward of twelve pounds. The rate of increase was unusually rapid in this case, too, since it presented no sign of cystic degeneration, which has been observed in the more rapidly growing tumors.