CY/STO-ABENOMA OF THE THYROID GLAND. lobe of the left ear. Its inferior border projected below the clavicle externally, and internally it occupied the subclavian triangle, resting on the apex of the left pleura. The integument was movable and contained a number of dilated veins. On physical examination moist rales were found in the bronchi of both lungs, with dullness on percussion at the apex of left lung. The difficult respiration was gradually increasing, and she was slowly but surely becoming suffocated. At her earnest solicitation I consented to attempt the removal of the mass. On May 20th, 1882, the operation was commenced by making an incision six inches in length through the integument and carefully dissecting down. The left posterior border of the tumor rested against the cervical vertebra; the posterior border pressed against the larynx, to which it was firmly attached. It was freely supplied by the superior thyroid artery, and by the ascend- ing cervical and transversalis humeri arteries, which were ligated in close proximity to the axis, pains being taken not to injure the recurrent laryngeal nerve. The operation consumed 2-|- hours. The pressure caused by the growth being removed from the apex of the lung, the patient was seized with a violent paroxysm of coughing, which caused a rupture of the pleura, and air exuded at each expiration through the aperture of the pleura and wound. The wound was carefully dressed antiseptically, the edges were brought in apposition by sutures, and a compress applied. Toward evening the patient was attacked with asthma, which caused severe venous hemorrhage. The wound was partially reopened to secure the bleeding vessels, when the apex of the lung was observed at each expiration to ascend above the clavicle about 1-1 inches; during inspiration the lung descended into the thoracic cavity. The patient made a good recovery. It is the opinion of the writer that, notwithstanding authorities condemn interference with tumors involving the thyroid gland, an operative procedure was justifiable in this case.