PLASTIC OPERATIONS ON THE FACE. [ 155 ] 20th.—The drainage-tube was removed three days after the operation. There is very little.dis- charge from the wound. 30th. A number ot the sutures were removed four days after the operation. The remaining ones have been removed at intervals since. Even those removed to-day were quite dry, having given rise absolutely to no perceptible irritation. There is well-marked ectropion of the lower lid. June 4th. — The wound gapes at its superior border to the extent of 4 to 5 mm.; other- wise it is completely united. There is marked facial paralysis on the affected side. The small granulating surface at the upper border is dressed with ung. lap. calamin. 22d.—The upper edge of the wound is now substantially united, the portion not cicatrized not exceeding 1 mm. in width. The lower lid is fixed in an everted position, exposing the conjunctival surface to the extent of 8 or 9 mm. The junction of the flap with the lower lip is nearly on a level, there being a slight depression. At the junc- tion with the upper lip the de- pression is deeper. The junction of the posterior margin of the flap with the integument in the temporo-maxillary region is on a perfect level, and the line of union is almost imperceptible. At the junction of the posterior margin of the flap with the integument near the angle of the jaw there is a considerable depression, and the portion of integument between the peduncle of the flap behind and the broader portion of the flap in front is elevated so as to form a prominent ridge about 12 mm. in height. There are two small spaces at the anterior and posterior parts of the peduncle, which are not perfectly cicatrized, and where the granulating surface is covered with a scab. 23d.—I performed an operation for the relief of the ectropion. Brandy, morphia, and ether having been administered, as before the first operation, I detached the eyelid from the cheek just above the line of the narrow cicatrix resulting from the former operation, and then excised the cicatrix from the cheek. I then dissected the integument of the eyelid from the subjacent parts until the ectropion