ILLUSTRATED MEDICINE AND SURGERY. [ 58 ] stomach became obstinate—nothing, not even the blandest food, could be tolerated in any quantity, although the appetite was ravenous. This condition lasted all summer. In the autumn of 1877, he had several large bloody stools, with a fixed burning pain, just below the point of the scapula. This latter being a new symptom, Dr. R. Palmer Howard, of McGill University, now saw the case with me, and, while agreeing as to the nature of the disease, was inclined to the opinion that the ulcer was duodenal. Rectal alimentation was insisted upon, as being necessary to sustain life, but the patient refused to submit. lie left immediately for New York, and at my suggestion, took advice while there. The diagnosis given was gastric neuralgia. Strange to say, from the moment he obtained this opinion, he was able to eat everything that came before him, without pain, and so he continued for several days till he reached Boston, when again advice was sought, and again a diagnosis of gastric neuralgia given. On his return to Montreal, a few days later, this immunity from pain after eating continued, but it was soon broken, and the pain returned—worse, if possible, than before. Firm in the belief that I and my confreres were wrong, he placed himself under the care of a homeo- pathic practitioner, who diagnosed gastralgia. Repeated hemorrhages occurred, and the pain after even a small quantity of food was agonizing. I was often sent for during the night to relieve him by a liypodermjc injection. On the 28th of January, 1878, he died from exhaustion, due to hemorrhage. The autopsy was performed by Dr. Osier, Pathologist of the Montreal General Hospital. AUTOPSY. Duodenum.—The part immediately outside the ring was much narrower than adjacent regions, measuring only 3.7 cm. About 10 in. from the pylorus there is an oval ulcer on the mucous membrane 2.5 by 1.8. cm., extending in direction of axis of gut, and occupying chiefly the posterior section of the tube. It is deep, with rounded edges, which, toward the upper and back part, are undermined for about 6 mm. In places the floor of the ulcer is quite G or 7 mm. below the level of the mucosa, and presents a tolerably smooth, fibrous appearance. The head of the pancreas forms the base of the lower three-fourths, the upper part is protected only by the thin muscular walls of the first piece of the duodenum, the peritoneal surface of which, at the site of the ulcer, is puckered and cicatricial. Im- mediately in the centre of the floor, is a small, dark, blood-stained elevation, consisting chiefly of fibrin. On injecting water through the hepatic artery, small clots are washed out at this point, and the water flows freely into the ulcer, through an opening in the gastro-epiploica dextra 2 mm. across and with smooth edges. The papilla of the bile duct is G cm. below the ulcer.