[ 77 1 ELASTIC TENSION IN POTT’S DISEASE EMPLOYED AS A THERAPEUTIC ADJUNCT IN THE MECHANICAL TREAT- MENT OF THIS BY SUSPENSION AND THE PLASTER OF PARIS JACKET. By M. JOSIAH ROBERTS, M.D., New York. Elastic tension is an active power which can be exerted in any direction and developed by a great variety of substances. I have elsewhere* considered the advantages of elastic tension and articular motion in the treatment of chronic inf animations of joints. I wish now to demonstrate the therapeutic value of elastic tension in rectifying trunkal distortions resulting from muscular weakness arising in the course of Pott’s disease. I have used it in certain cases as an adjuvant to the now widely adopted plan of treatment introduced by Prof. Lewis A. Sayre. All who have treated many cases of angular curvature, must have met with some in which, after the application of the plaster jacket or other spinal support, there was still present an undue protrusion of the belly forward, as in Fig. 71, or a lateral tilt, as in Fig. 78. Such distortions are, for the most part, due to debility of the muscles of the lumbar and the lower half of the dorsal regions. The improved position gained by suspension, or extension of the spine with the patient in the horizontal decubitus, is not maintained, no matter with how much skill the spinal support is applied. And for this reason, the power of the spinal lever is not applied below, or external to the weakened muscles. Were it practicable to carry a rigid spinal prop below the hip-joints down upon the thighs, the improved position of the spine would be readily maintained. This, however, would necessitate the immobiliza- tion of the hip-joints, and the crippling of the patient to such an extent as to absolutely prevent loco- motion. In a case such as is represented in Fig. 71, it will lie found, by placing the fore-finger of one hand on the projecting abdomen, and that of the other between the scapulae, and exerting slight cross- presssure, that the patient will assume the erect posture shown in Fig. 79. The same result can, in like manner, be obtained when there is a lateral tilt (Vide Fig. 78). To do this, place one finger under the right axilla, and another on the left hip, exert slight cross- pressure, and the patient will assume the improved position shown in Fig. 79. In both of the abovo Medical Society of the County of New York, Jan. 23, 1882.