[ D9 ] HISTORY OF CASE OF MULTIPLE SARCOMA OF SKIN. BY FRANKLIN TOWNSEND, A.M., M.D. Professor of Physiology, Albany Medical College. Mr. X., an Irishman by birth, for many years a resident of this country. Married, and a man of family ; healthy children ; is fifty years of age, and a grocer by occupation. Family History.—His family history is good; his parents living to a late period, the father dying of pleurisy, the mother of influenza. Past History.—No venereal taint, except that patient many years ago had an attack of gonor- rhea; from this he recovered after the usual time. He had always been in perfect health until the year 1848, when he had an attack of “ inflammatory rheumatism” of both ankles and hips; had also a great deal of pain about his heart at this time, for which he was “ cupped and blistered frequently.” Iiis ill- ness remained with him “ off and on,” as he expresses it, for nearly a whole year. Marrying in 1854, he continued well till 1858, when he was a second time afflicted with rheumatism (acute) of both ankles; this attack lasting but a short time. Five years later, or in 1863, patient suffered from symptoms due to malarial poisoning (fever and ague), from which he was not relieved for nearly four weeks, after which time he remained perfectly well, so far as he knows, for about ten years. In 1873 he w7as “ down again,” suffering considerably from “internal piles,” which were promptly operated upon with entire success. In the spring of 1874, patient’s attention was called to a “ breaking out upon his stomach,” espe- cially over the right side, “pimple-like in form,” and in no marked degree. In from six to eight months the eruption spread to the left side of abdomen. Shortly after this his back became involved by a similar process of “breaking out1' upon the skin. This eruption he describes as never itching, and also as being free from soreness. His habits at this time were not perfect, as he frequently drank of malt liquors freely. From the beginning of the growth to date, there has been a gradual increase in its size. More healthy skin has become involved in the process, while each separate tumor has enlarged in all direc- tions. At no time, patient states, has there been a discharge from the morbid parts, though he be- lieves a change has taken place as regards their color and consistence, viz.: they have become darker, and softer in hue. Mr. X. states also that he never noticed any glandular enlargements about his