HIP-DISEASE IN THE THIRD STAGE. [ 47 ] pressure and concussion, the patient was enabled to pursue the ordinary occupations of a boy of his age while the reparative process gradually supplanted the ravages of the disease Recovery, however, was not immediate. The abscess already referred to was followed at irregular intervals by other puru- lent collections which were incised or opened spontaneously until nine sinuses were established about the joint, all leading to carious bone. Five of these sinuses extended in a line down the outer side of the thigh from the trochanter to near the middle of the shaft of the femur, as seen in the cut, Fig. 37. The position and arrangement of these sinuses from one of which a fragment of cancellated bone was extended, the nature of the discharge, which was frequently offensive, and the character of the resulting cicatrices show that this was a case in which the shaft of the femur was to a considerable extent involved in the destructive osteitis. Although the progress of the case was generally towards recovery, there were stages in which the general condition of the patient was seriously affected. On such occasions the appetite failed, the tongue became coated, lassitude and irritability supervened and frequent ephemerae indicated how profoundly the system was affected by the local disturbance. At such times and more especially throughout the early and more critical period of the disease, cod-liver oil and other roborants were freely prescribed. The fact that the patient was enabled to move about and to amuse himself in the open air and sunshine was believed to be especially useful in supporting his general health and thus indirectly promoting the recovery of the involved joint. When the improvement in his general condition, the tolerance of motion in the joint and the disposition of the sinuses to close indicated the propriety of gradually relaxing the treatment, the splint was worn for some time with only a slight amount of traction, and finally the adhesive plasters were removed and the splint was worn for several months suspended merely by webbing passing over the shoulders, making, in fact, an ischiatic crutch. An elevated shoe on the foot of the unaffected side enabled him to walk briskly and at the same time to regain whatever motion could be got from a joint so thoroughly disorganized without exposing the new tissues to the violent concussion inseparable from ordinary locomotion. The patient was under treatment two years and five montths. His present condition, six months after treatment, is shown in the wood-cuts, Figs. 37 and 38. It is extremely favorable in view of the extensive destruction which had occurred in the joint, and the prolonged strain to which his system has been subjected by the disease. The limb is in good position, neither abducted nor adducted, and flexed at a slight angle, sufficient to allow him to sit comfortably, and yet not enough to interfere with locomotion. The motions of the knee are perfect. He walks with firmness, runs rapidly, and never uses a cane. The limp which accompanies rapid motion, and is slightly perceptible when he moves slowly, is partly the result of an inch of shortening and partly due to the absence of motion in the joint, lliat shortening comes not so much from the loss of bone at the upper extremity of the femur, as from a disparity in the size of the bony structures of the two legs, is illustrated in the outlines of the feet, Fig. 39, a disparity arising not only from disease and desuetude of the affected limb, but also, perhaps, from over-use of the unaffected limb. The remarkable locomotive power possessed by the patient in view of the size and importance of the joint affected, illustrates the ease with which motion is transferred from an impaired joint to the lumbar region of the spinal column and the hip-joint of the unaffected side. The auxiliary motion of these parts acquired thus in youth may