FISTULA OF THE URETHRA. f Go ] carefully stitched together with the finest silk. The penis was enveloped in lint soaked in carbolized oil. After this the urine was carefully drawn through the perinseal opening several times daily. Four days later a fresh dressing was applied. August 29th, several stitches were removed, and on September 5th, the first time that a thorough examination was made, union was found to be complete throughout. September 12th. All of the urine passed naturally through the penis. September 18th. The perinseal wound had entirely healed. On discharge from the hospital this patient still noticed a slight bend- ing of the glans downwards and to the right when erection took place. This was due to the extensive cicatrix left after the healing of the original ulceration.* It is believed by the writer that the success attending the operations described was due to several causes. In the first place, new tissue Fig. 62. was supplied, in the form of a freely movable flap to close each fistula operated upon. In one instance this was not done, but the attempt was made to simply stitch the prepared edges of the fistula together, and the operation completely failed. In the second place two thicknesses of skin were used (integumental surface being always pre- sented to the urethra), so that greater vitality was secured to the inverted flaps. Thirdly, the urethra was always opened posterior to the situation of the fistula, thus completely diverting the course of the urine during the process of healing. It is well known that while perinseal fistulas, due to disease, sometimes heal with great difficulty, those produced with the knife through healthy tissue heal readily. With regard to the use of sutures, it may be said that the very finest were always used, and were so applied as to obtain the most complete apposition of surfaces to one another, f + For great care shown in the after treatment of this case I desire to express my indebtedness to Doctor John F. Ridlon, at that time House Surgeon at St. Luke’s Hospital. t Read before the New York Surgical Society, November 22d, 1881?