CASES OF RUPTURE OF THE CHOROID. [ 142 ] an occurrence. The hemorrhage may indeed he enough to find its way into the vitreous, and hv caus- ing its turbidity, interfere with the ophthalmoscopic examination. The occurrence of distorted vision—metamorphopsia—as a permanent condition, quite often hap- pens after this form of injury; and, as pointed out by Knapp,* is especially likely to occur after the sight has temporarily improved, and is due to the contraction of the cicatritial tissue formed in the choroidal rent. The retina may be united to it, drawn backward and united to the sclerotic. Then the normal distribution of the retinal elements, which are of a mosaic-like character, become changed; and their previous regular retinal meridians are dislocated, so as to produce secondary curves. If they do not lose their functional power, metamorphopsia results; but when the sensory elements involved in the scar are destroyed, a corresponding dark place in the visual field—scotoma—results. That such defects of vision should occur from such an injury is not, as K. truly says, so remark- able as that, in some cases, vision is but little interfered with. Case 2 is one of which I have but very imperfect notes, as I saw it during a visit to Columbus, and only brought home the sketch with a record of the sight, etc. It is shown in Fig. 2, and occur- red in a medical student of twenty-one years, seen March 3, 1S77. The rupture is drawn in the in. verted image. The injury was caused by a blow upon the eye received five years before. The eye diverged slightly, and sight was very bad, only 2¥0- There was no scotoma nor metamorphopsia. The ophthalmoscope showed a white, slightly crescentic patch with the concavity turned toward the optic disc about the same (rather smaller) dimensions as in Case 1, situated above and about 1 D. from the upper margin (inverted image) of the disc. It lies somewhat obliquely, its inner end near the nasal side of the disc. There was quite an extensive amount of rarefaction of the choroid observed, towards the equator of the eye, not shown in the picture; the nerve was white, and the arteries small—atrophy of the disc. This case differs from the first mainly in the situation of the rupture, and in the absence of either scotoma or metamorphopsia. The great loss of acuteness of vision we must attribute to the atrophy of the nerve, since a rupture of the extent here depicted in such a situation, where the in- tegrity of central vision could be but little impaired, could hardly be held responsible for it. It is therefore probable that the blow causing the rupture may have in some way (as, for instance, by frac- ture of the orbit, or hemorrhage therein) compressed the nerve, causing it to undergo atrophic change. It may be observed that the atrophy of the disc is not very well shown in the drawing. It will be seen, too, that the loss of vision here was much greater than in Case 1, where the rupture was at the macula. Case 3.—F. G., Fig. 3, a lad of fourteen years, from South Carolina, a student at the St. John’s College, Fordham, consulted me May 31,1877, on account of the bad vision of his right eye. One year before, he was struck upon this eye by a tip-cat. He says that the eye was black and blue, and some- what painful for a few days. lie noticed no affection of sight until about one month before his visit to me, when by accidentally shutting the left eye, he found vision almost entirely wanting in the upper part of the right. The blindness has gradually encroached upon the rest of the visual field, until * Archives of Opththal., Vol. I.