A CASE OF FA LA TO-PHA It Y NGEA L SARCOMA. there was great salivation. 1 he ulcerations had cicatrized; the surface had become smooth; the lymphatic glands of the neck had decreased in size. With the local changes for the better in the tumor and her generally improved condition, we concluded that the growth was not as malignant as I at first supposed. Under the existing circumstances it was deemed advisable to operate. On November 22d, 1881, in the presence of Drs. Ashford, Magruder, Can-oil, Morgan, Bayne and Malian, I proceeded to operate. The patient was seated on a chair, with her arms pinioned. Anaes- thetics were not used for evident reasons. From the extreme vascularity of the region and the seemingly congested appearance of the tumor, haemorrhage was anticipated, and ample precautions were taken fol- ks suppression in the event of its occurring. Haemostatics were at hand, the thermo-cautery was within reach. An incision Avas made in the long diameter of the tumor, and its contents were rapidly enucle- ated. Several small pieces of bone came away with it. To our surprise, but little haemorrhage followed; no ligatures were required, and no haemostatics were applied. The bleeding ceased with the conclusion of the operation. On the second day after the operation haemorrhage occurred, profuse but passive in character. Dr. Malian, house surgeon, plugged the cavity Avith lint saturated with Monsel’s solution of iron, and the haemorrhage Avas finally controlled. The patient convalesced sIoavI}-. After several Aveeks in the hospital she left. February 16th, 1882. Greatly improved in health, and relieved of all her former suffering. I received several letters from her while at home, writing encouragingly of her condition, and congratu- lating herself on her returning health. To my surprise she returned to the hospital on March 12th, 1882. An examination revealed a small swelling at the side of the cicatrix; it gave her but little inconvenience; she Avas concerned about it, however, and Avas anxious to have it removed. I intended to remove it at once. On the day fixed for the operation, March 13th, Avhile conversing with a patient in the ward, without premonition violent haemorrhage took place, and death followed immediately. No autopsy Avas made. The presumption is that some large vessel Avas opened by the softening of the tissue and yielded to the arterial pressure. Microscopical examination demonstrated the tumor to be a spindle-cell sarcoma.