[ 53 ] SKIN-GRAFTING IN THE TREATMENT OF A BURN. BY GEO. A. VAN WAGENEN, M.D., Late House Surgeon Bellevue Hospital. Case.—Ellen Collins, ®t. thirty-seven; Irish; married; was admitted to Bellevue Hospital, October, 1871, for a burn from kerosene oil. After five months’ treatment the wound assumed the appearance seen in the illustration. It involved the whole right breast and arm, with a portion of the left breast; and had ceased to cicatrize. The nipple had been renewed and the wound of the left breast almost covered by grafts from her own person and those of her friends. On March 10, 1872, I immersed an amputated leg in hot water and began grafting from it within three minutes after immersion. Thirty grafts were applied on the right side and covering a vertical space five by four and a-half inches, and almost all succeeded. March 23.—Being unable to take the amputated limb immediately to my patient, I wrapped it in flannel and placed it behind a coil of steam pipes; beginning grafting one hour and thirty-five minutes after the operation. About one hundred grafts were applied, and on April 1, I counted eiglity-nine successful ones. On April 10, this photograph was taken to show the grafts of March 23. Another, taken three months later, showed the breast nearly healed, and the arm much improved. An acute pleurisy with effusion of the left side then set in and caused her death, on June 22, when everything promised success. A post-mortem showed that death was not directly due to the burn. She had received in all over 1500 grafts'in less than a year ; a large proportion of which were successful. 1. History.—The history of skin-grafting is not a long one. In 1817, Professor Frank Hamil- ton, of New York City, suggested transplanting pedunculated flaps of skin to heal large wounds ; and applied this method in 1851.* But to Mons. Reverdin, of France, belongs the credit of first using detached grafts of skin. The successful transplantations were made October 16, 1S69 ; and his paper on “ Epidermic Grafting” was read before the Societe de Chirurgie de Paris, in December, 1869.f In May, 1870, Mr. George Pollock, of St. George’s Hospital, London, began grafting in England.:}: About the same time, Mr. D. Fides, of Aberdeen, Scotland, employed epidermic scrapings * N. Y. Med. Gazette, Aug. 20, 1870. t See Bulletin of same Society for 1869. Also Gaz. des hopitaux, Jan. 11 and 22, 1870. I For his cases and remarks see Transactions Clin. Soc. 1871.