TRICHOP 11YTOSIS BARBAE. attempting epilation the patient rebelled, declaring that the pain was greater than he could bear: and, in fact, actually refused to submit to it. Under these circumstances, his physician referred him to me. On examination I found a high grade of inflammation, with sero-purulent exudation, involving nearly the entire region of the heard. The parts were extremely sensitive, the slightest traction on a hair causing the patient to cry out. Finding that epilation was for the present, at least, impracticable, I ordered Calx Sulph. in doses of one-tenth grain twice daily, together with the following ointment: £ FI. Ext. Stramonii recentis . . 3 i, Ungt. Hydrargyri Ammoniati . 3 i, M to be applied morning and night. Under this treatment, maintained with little variation, he rapidly improved, and was discharged from further treatment in about seven weeks. L. A., twenty-five years old, and recently married, consulted me in January of the present year for an eruption that had appeared a week or ten days before, on his scrotum and thigh. O11 examina- tion, I found four trichophytic rings on the thigh, one on the scrotum, and one on the penis. He stated that his wife was free from any similar trouble, and denied that he had had any other opportunity of acquiring it. I was puzzled to account for the appearance of the eruption in the regions mentioned, until I noticed a small spot on his neck. This, on inspection, proved to be a small scaly ring, in the region of the pomum Adami, which he stated had appeared shortly after the attentions of a strange barber, while on his wedding trip. I ordered daily frictions with the Oleatum Ilydrargyri. A few days later he brought his wife, who exhibited a well-marked ring-worm, involving a portion of the upper lip, and the left ala of the nose. The three cases related exhibit three phases of Trichophytosis Barbae, differing from each other howevei*, in many respects, so far as appearance is concerned. In the first case we had well-defined lesions of a plastic character; in the second, a diffuse inflammation with abundant sero-purulent ex- udation ; and in the third, the slightest possible degree of inflammation so far as the lesion on the neck was concerned. It will be noticed that the treatment differed somewhat in all three cases, in accordance with the difference in the lesions. The rationale of this will be better understood when we consider the natural history and etiology of the disease. We will first, however, say a few words about diagnosis. Diagnosis.—The question of diagnosis lies between trichophytosis proper, and one, or possibly two other affections. These are Eczema of the beard, and Sycosis idiopatliica. Whether this latter affection really exists as a separate disease, is open to some doubt; the evidence in its favor, however, has been ably presented by Dr. A. R. Robinson of Flew York. Be this as it may, there certainly exists a form of Eczema that occupies the same situations as Trichophytosis barbae, and from which it should be carefully differentiated. This can in most cases be readily accomplished from the history alone. In Trichophytosis we have the appearance of little red [ 133 ]