PLASTIC OPERATIONS ON THE FACE. was entirely overcome, and the tarsal margin of the lower lid was brought into close contact with the corresponding margin of the upper lid. The vacant space left between the lid thus dissected up and the upper margin of the flap upon the cheek was about 15 mm. in breadth in the middle and tapering toward each extremity. The whole length of the vacant space was about 0 to 7 cm. The temple being shaved, a flap of sufficient width to cover the space was cut from the integument of the temple and of the forehead, about the outer part of the brow. The inner half of the flap was bounded by straight horizontal lines, and the outer half by curved lines extending upward and forward upon the forehead. In making the flap, the temporal artery was exposed, tied in two places, and divided between the liga- tures. Several smaller vessels were also tied. The flap, being loosened from its subcutaneous attach- ments, was readily brought around to fill the space which had been made by dissecting the lower lid from the cheek. It was secured in its new position by numerous fine sutures. The integument at the junction of the forehead and temple was necessarily thrown into a puckered fold, and a vacant space was left upon the temple behind the peduncle of the flap. This space was dressed with shreds of lint moistened with collodion. At the close of the operation, the patient was troubled with vomiting, but was otherwise in good condition. The newly constructed eyelid presented a nearly normal appearance, except that the flap which had been transplanted bad a somewhat livid color. 29tli.—The tip of the flap appears to be sloughing. 30th.—Removed the sutures. A large portion of the flap has a sloughy appearance. The edges of the sloughing tissues were dressed with carbolized oil ter in die. July 7th.—The slough has separated to-day, and is found to be more superficial than it had been supposed to be. The surface was touched with nitrate of silver, and dressed with ung. lap. cal ami n. 1 8th.—Collodion dressing reapplied to granulating surface in left temporal region. 17th.—Collodion dressing substituted for ung. lap. calamin. on eyelid. 25th.—The former granulating surface below the left eyelid is completely cicatrized. August 1st.—Ung. lap. calamin. applied to the raw surface in the temporal region. 28th.—The process of cicatrization in the temple is very slow, there still being a granulating surface as large as a silver quarter-dollar. September 15th.—-The patient was allowed to go out on a pass, but did not return. In reviewing this case, there are several circumstances which appear to be worthy of special notice. 1st. The manner of preparing the patient for the operation, by administering brandy by the mouth, morphia by hypodermic injection, and ether by inhalation. This is a modification of the prac- tice of Prof. Nussbaum of Munich, and I am in the habit of employing it in all operations which are likely to be protracted. It seems to me to have the advantage of sustaining the heart's action, and of maintaining a more ecpiable and persistent anaesthesia than can be secured by the inhalation ot ether without the use of the brandy and morphia. The method is peculiarly adapted to operations upon the face, where the continued application of the ether sponge is embarrassing to the operator, and prevents the operation from being speedily completed. 2d. The large extent of the chasm produced by the excision of the morbid growth and con- [156]