ILLUSTRATED MEDICINE AND SURGERY. spot externally, in the region of the vitellus. The follicle measured thirteen lines in length, and ten lines in breadth. The Graafian follicle was attached posteriorly to the ovary in one-third of its super- ficies, the rest was free. The right ovary was enlarged, the Fallopian tube was free and moderately congested at its extremity. The epithelial coat was divided and rolled over showing its slight lobulated appearance with three cicatricial points of rupture. Remarks.—Considering the number of these cases recorded, they cannot be considered so very uncommon, or as rare as abdominal pregnancy. Usually cases of extra-uterine foetation are tubal. "\ el- peau accepted the opinions of Blainville and Serres, who assisted him in dissections and investigations of the four supposed cases of ovarian pregnancy, and he states that “he had evidently been imposed upon in this matter.” The fourth case, however, there was great difficulty in deciding upon, after having carefully isolated the Fallopian tube. The debris of the conception was contained in a sac lying be- tween the peritoneum and the tunica propria of the ovary. In truth, the impregnation was on the surface of the germiniferous gland outside but not in it. Velpeau does not even, as he says, pretend that the ovum has never been observed on the surface of the ovary, but that when once verified, “ it has never yet been found enclosed in the envelopes of the organ as in a cyst.” We are all aware that the unimpregnated ovum is believed to leave the ripe Graafian vesicle in order to enter the fimbriated extremity of the tube, and descend into the uterus, in either of which it may become fecundated, being discharged either at the beginning of menstruation, after, or dur- ing its flow. The epithelial tunic at present is considered as nearly allied to the mucous coat of the tube, though without its cilia, and bathed in a peculiar liquid. Sometimes only a small part of the fimbria is in connection with the ovary, and the ovum may pass along some of its grooves or furrows to the tube itself. It is even considered as not necessary for any part of the fimbriated extremity to be in close apposition. These physiological laws are so amply verified, that it naturally suggests the ques- tion whether the ovum could not be impregnated before leaving the follicle, and establish a pregnancy in that organ, enclosed, “as in a cyst.” The ovum may during the act of connection be in the stage of development, and preparing to go through the process of delivery, when it is met by the spermatozoids and conception follow ; or it may be expelled from its cavity into the tube, or drop into the abdominal cavity ; or it may be arrested on its way ot delivery and before its escape, and become an ovarian gestation dwelling in the ovary itself “ as in a cyst.” It is not necessary, that the impregnated ovum should receive its nourishment or be attached to mucous surfaces. The germ may attach itself and live till it has completed its full term of intra- uterine existence in the abdominal cavity, without having any connectiou with the uterus, tube or ovaries. The ovum is nourished by endosmotic action. From the history of other cases reported at as early a period of pregnancy as my own (Kam- inerer, N. Y. Med. Journal, 1S65 ; I. G. Porter, Amer. Journal Med. Sciences, 1853), there can be no doubt of the embryo being enclosed in the envelopes of the germiniferous gland. Velpeau admits his was on the outside and between the peritoneal coat, or, more correctly, the epithelial tunic, and the tunica propria, and is an exceedingly rare place for gestation to be recognized. P>ut consid- ered as an impregnation, and covered by a peritoneal coat, the spermatozoids must have penetrated that membrane, and it lends confirmation to the facts advanced in these remarks. t U ]