ILLUSTRATED MEDICINE AND SURGERY. The fourth day after admission the tumor was removed under ether. An assistant held it up vertically, and two curvilinear incisions were made on each side of its base through healthy but thinned integument. The dissection was done rapidly, and with almost no loss of blood, an assistant grasping each bleeding point with forcipressure forceps. A small portion of the sheath of the pectoralis major muscle being opaque, was removed with scissors. Eighteen carbolized catgut ligatures were applied, wound united with silk sutures, two rubber drains being left at each extremity. All antiseptic precautions were adopted save the spray, and a Lister dressing used. The woman was but slightly depressed by the operation. There was primary union at a few points only, and the wound, remaining aseptic, healed by granulation in four weeks. But the general condition was very bad. The fever was very moderate, but there was great depression, with irritable stomach and an obstinate diarrhoea. This gradually stopped, and at the ninth week after admission she was discharged in greatly improved condition, but still anaemic and thin. The cicatrix appeared healthy. The tumor weighed eight pounds. Fully one-third of its mass was softened and necrotic. Sections from different parts presented the same appearance under the microscope, that of closely- aggregated spindle-cells, the intercellular substance being homogeneous in character, with numerous large blood-vessels filled with blood. After leaving hospital the woman improved in health and was able to work. Two months later a nodule appeared in the cicatrix, which in three months more grew to the size of a child’s head, with constant pain, and ulcerated in several places. It was movable, however, on the walls of the chest, and the axilla was free from enlarged glands. The woman’s general con- dition was as bad as before the first operation. The growth was removed by Dr. Wise, leaving an open wound. Death ensued four days later from exhaustion. Autopsy (by Dr. George L. Peabody, Pathologist to the New York Hospital). Body emaciated. Rigor mortis well marked. GAlema of both lower extremities. A large wound, seven inches in longest diameter, over site of left breast. Peritoneum: no fluid in cavity, no signs of peritonitis. Diaphragm : right side at fourth rib, left side fourth intercostal space, old adhesions at left apex. Lungs : two small nodules (1^ and \ inches in diameter) between apex and lower border of upper lobe of left lung. Right lung presents several similar nodules. They vary in size from that of a pea to that of a horse-chestnut, are white, and of soft consistence. Heart: pericardial thickening anteriorly and posteriorly, firm clots in all the cavities. Aorta and mitral valve atheromatous. All valves suf- ficient. Muscular tissue brownish and flabby. The spleen rests on a hard, firm retro-peritoneal tumor, which occupies the left hypocliondrium, and is overlain by the stomach and pancreas. The mass is hard, friable, and globular, and weighs 800 grammes. Four inches below this is another tumor, of 300 grammes weight. The left kidney contains several whitish deposits in one pyramid, surrounded by zones of congestion, anaemic and normal. Right kidney likewise normal. Stomach small and anaemic —its mucous membrane normal. Duodenum, intestines and liver normal. Brain is anaemic. In the extreme end of left occipital lobe a cavity just within the limit of gray-matter, containing a soft mass as large as a horse-chestnut. It is whitish, and shells out of the cavity easily. Microscopic examination. The growths in the lung consist of cheesy masses, in whose borders are masses of round and spindle-cells, lying in close contact with one another in places, and again [82]