[ 25 ] DISLOCATION OF THE COLUMNAR CARTILAGE OF THE NOSE. BY F. H. BOSWORTH, M.D., Lecturer on Diseases of the Throat in the Bellevue Ilosgntal Medical College. Lying immediately below the cartilage of the nasal septum, and parallel with its lower border, is a small oblong plate of cartilage not usually mentioned in the text-books of anatomy. It lies im- mediately beneath the integument of the columna, and can be easily grasped between the thumb and forefinger. It seems designed to give firmness and shape to the columna, and also probably aids in supporting the tip of the nose. Within the past year, two cases of lateral displacement of this cartilage have come under my care, which seem to possess an interest from being somewhat unique and also from the simplicity and success with which the deformity was rectified. The first case was that of a gentleman from Illinois who consulted me in March last, reporting that two years before he had noticed that something was growing in his right nostril. He had paid little attention to the matter at the time, but the condition had progressively grown worse until, at the time he came to the city, the deformity had increased to such an extent that there was not only a consider- able degree of closure of the nostril, but the nose presented such a noticeable loss of symmetry as to become a source of no little mental distress. In fact, the matter annoyed him so much that he came to New York with the sole purpose of seeking relief by some surgical operation. When I saw him the nose presented much the appearance illustrated in the accompanying sketch. The general facial expression, however, was even more noticeable than is suggested by the cut; it was very peculiar, and indeed almost sinister, and I was not surprised at his anxiety for relief, especially as he said the deformity seemed to be increasing. The case wTas unique to me, and I was at first somewhat puzzled to determine its nature. On examination, however, I found that the columnar cartilage was displaced laterally, and at the same time tilted upward in such a manner that its posterior angle protruded into the nostril in an upward direction. It was easily grasped between the finger and thumb, and its outlines sufficiently showed that there was no deformity of the cartilage, or new growth. I urthermore, . it could be restored to its proper position by pressure, but immediately resumed its abnormal position when the pressure was relaxed.