[ 30 j A HARE FORM OF CORNEAL OPACITY. BY THOMAS R. POOLEY, M.D., Assistant Surgeon, New York Ophthalmic and Aural Institute. This disease lias been described under various names, as Symmetrical Opacity of the Cornea, Transverse Opacity, Transverse Calcareous Film of the Cornea (Nettleship), and Ribbon or Band- Shaped Keratitis. It is of rare occurrence, and the best description of the disease, with an analysis of twenty-two cases, may be found in the Archives of Opthalmology, Vol. viii., No. 3, p. 293, et seq., contributed by Edward Nettleship, of London. The following case, of which the drawing is a beautiful illustration, came under my notice several years ago, and is one of the few cases of the kind which I have seen. The patient was a German, about fifty years of age, and of apparent good health. I remember, especially, that he had no tendency to gout or rheumatism. I did not cpiestion him as to syphilis. In the right eye, which is represented in the cut, the disease began a number of years ago, and was first noticed as an opacity at the margin of the cornea, on each side, which gradually grew towards the centre, and then began to very seriously affect his sight. On looking at the eye without raising the lid, a transverse grayish- brown opacity seemed to occupy the entire palpebral fissure. The band of opacity does not exactly follow the horizontal meridian, but crosses the cornea rather obliquely. It is much broader at the margins of the cor- nea, and gradually grows narrower toward the centre. By oblique illumina- tion the epithelium of the cornea does not show any alteration, but appeal's quite normal. The opacity has a stippled appearance, and in places shows fissures or cracks. The opacity does not quite reach the borders of the cornea, although it is incorrectly represented to do so in the cut. The pupil is almost concealed, except just the outlines of its upper and lower borders, which become a great deal more apparent when a solution of atropine is put in the eye, and it is then seen, as shown in the figure, that there is a synechia at its lower margin. Objects held above or below could be seen, but I have no accurate record of the acuteness of vision. In the left eye there were two