[ 35 ] REPORT OF A CASE OF PROGRESSIVE FACIAL ATROPHY. BY E. C. SEGUIN, M.D., Clinical Professor of Diseases of the Mind and Nervous System, College of Physicians and Surgeons, New York. Progressive facial atrophy is such a rare disease that every case is worthy of being recorded. Case.—Delia II., aged ten years, was brought to my clinic for diseases of the nervous system, at the College of Physicians and Surgeons. The mother gave the following brief history : Delia had enjoyed good health as a child. At the age of five years there was noticed a greenish spot, “like a ringworm,” on the left check, midway between the malar bone and the angle of the mouth. There was no pain. In the course of one year, the cheek became depressed and the mouth crooked, being drawn upward and to the left; no other spots were noticed. The disease has steadily progressed, without pain. General health and mental development have been satisfactory. Examination.—The child is well grown and healthydooking, but the left side of her face is disfigured by atrophy of a large part of the cheek. The angle of the mouth is drawn upward and to the left ; the upper red border of the lip on the left side is small, almost linear. The region between the mouth and the malar emi- nence is the seat of a depression capable of receiving half an English walnut. At a distance the skin appears healthy ; but closer examina- tion reveals the following points: a whitish spot exists in the centre of the atrophied region, about the size of a five-cent silver coin. The rest of the skin of the head, face and neck is normal. The deeper tissues of the cheek are much wasted, and the thickness of the cheek is less (one-third) than that of the opposite side. The very thin left upper lip, and the left cheek are not at all adherent to the subjacent bone. The rest of the left face is rather thin, but presents no positive atrophy. The tongue and soft palate are normal. The left superior maxilla is, however, much atrophied ; its alveolar process not being more than one-half as thick as that of the opposite side. The teeth are more regular on the diseased than on the healthy side ; they are of good size and fairly preserved; the space between the two upper middle incisors is abnormally great; there is no syphilitic or rachitic peculiarity about them. The anterior portion of the hard palate is