A. TER A TOL 0 GICAL CO NT RIB U TION. r 125 i had been caused by faulty innervation and not by local influences, such as pressure due to the position of the child in the womb, as is often supposed, and possibly the actual cause in many instances. In this case, although the body of the child very easily and perfectly admitted of being replaced in the position it had in utero, the very striking deformity in legs and feet could hardly be thus accounted for, but must be referred to pathological changes in the nerve centres, which unquestionably exist; I believe that this specimen is one of unusual importance, as it seems conclusively to prove the depend- ence of certain deformities, especially of legs and feet which are so frequently ascribed to position and consequent compression, to a pathological condition of the nerve centres. I would by no means deny that deformities, above all pes valgus or varus, may result from compression or other local influences, more particularly in a feeble organization, but the advocates of each theory are too sweeping and general in their deductions, ascribing all deformities to one cause, whereas to my mind we here have a striking example of the effect of faulty innervation. The validity of one cause does not exclude that of the others. M. C. Darest (in a recent paper, Academie des Sciences. Compts rendus de la Seance da 23 Jan. 1882) gives some striking examples of the development of monstrosities by posture and by compres- sion of the embryo in consequence of tardy development of the amnion, which acts as the compressing agent. This fact he has observed in birds’ eggs, but also in the embryo of mammals; and he believes that the deformities of the feet in the human foetus are mainly due to this cause. h.—Anencephalus, Hernia Umbilicalis. A female foetus eleven and three-eighths inches in length; the face two inches; body four and ten-sixteenths inches ; lower extremities five and seven sixteenths, whilst the feet measure two and one- quarter inches ; the head, as is usual in these cases, sits directly upon the shoulders, with no neck. The cleft in the spine extends to what would probably be the first dorsal vertebra. Some little fluid, no cerebellum whatsoever in the small sac pendant from the spinal aperture ; the anterior portion of the skull covered by a thick scalp with some hair. The peculiarity lies mainly in the abdominal organs, these are nil, with the exception of the kidneys and pelvic viscera, contained in the umbilical sac, which has a circumference of seven inches, extending three inches from the abdomen. The navel- string is inserted in the lower third of the sac, which has somewhat the appearance of the integument and passes in this to the abdominal wall below. The circumference of the sac at its base is a little over two inches; it is a delicate semi-transparent membrane, very much like the chorion; in it lie the entire liver, spleen, stomach and intestines; the ligamentum suspensorium liepatis is attached to the sac. The abdominal cavity is very small and completely filled by an immense horse-shoe kidney, the left lobe of which is over an inch in length and twice the size of the right; both, however, extending up to the diaphragm. The descending colon passes down in the centre of the body over the bridge of the horse-shoe kidney and the promontory, in the hollow of the sacrum behind the uterus. The pelvic viscera are all present, but, like the sexual organs, somewhat backward in their development; the Fallopian tubes with their fimbriated extremities are very marked, as are also the ligamenta ovarii, while the ovaries themselves are simply recognizable as a thickening of the tissue. The external sexual organs are fully developed, with a double vagina.