ILLUSTRATED MEDICINE AND SURGERY. [ 20 J so earnestly pleaded for relief that I again admitted her to the hospital, promising to remove the ovaries by Battey's method, in the hope of, in this way, relieving her of at least the greater portion of her troubles. For this operation, she entered my service during the year 1SS1. I cut down through the abdominal walls, and reached a tumor which looked exactly like a fibroid. I put my lingers upon it, and was surprised to find an obscure and yet distinct sense of fluctu- ation, which had not been recognized through the abdominal walls. Instead, therefore, of going on with the intended operation, I introduced a canula and trocar into the fluctuating tumor, and on withdrawing it there immediately escaped a pint or a pint and a half of menstrual fluid. It had all the characteristics of that fluid, and there could be no mistake with regard to its nature. 1 was very much puzzled by this, for the woman had been carefully examined, she had menstruated regularly, the uterus had been repeatedly measured, and was found to be two inches and a half in length. Taking hold of the tumor with two strong tenacula and drawing it up into the abdominal wound, I passed my hand down and discovered its relations, when at once it flashed across my mind that this was a uterus bicornial; that the canal in the left horn was free, and allowed the escape of the menstrual fluid from that side, while the canal in the right horn was not open throughout its entire length, and consequently obstructed the menstrual discharge from that side. The original condition of the parts was probably that repi’esented in Fig. 9 or Fig. 10, one cervix being pervious, and the other impervious, if the uterus were originally bicornate as represented in Fig. 9, or else no cervix existing if the organ were originally uuicornate as represented in Fig. 10. Fig. 9.—Bicorn Uterus. Fig. 10. —Unicorn Uterus. Under such circumstances, one uterus, or rather one horn, discharges menstrual blood; in the other, that fluid, secreted by the endometrium, accummulates and creates a tumor presenting many of the features of a fibroid. When this thought suggested itself I was able to account for all the peculiarities of the case: First, the fact that the tumor had the appearances of a fibroid, and gave such agonizing pain at each menstrual period ; second, the fact that the tumor remained at about the same size, not growing larger, as a fibroid would do, although it was not at all impossible for a tumor of this character to have become larger by gradual distension ; and, lastly, the fact that the patient had comparative immunity from pain between the menstrual periods. I now found myself in an unfortunate dilemma, for had I proceeded to remove the ovaries, blood would have escaped from the wound into the abdominal cavity, and would very likely have set up fatal peritonitis or septicaemia. Hence, I adopted a course which struck me, as under the circumstances, the only one which would meet the emergency.