INTELLECTUAL MONOMANIA, WITH MENTAL DEPRESSION. [ 133 ] the persons whom she thought had spoken about her and pointed at her. This patient remained in the asylum for several years in about the same condition as when she entered it. Delusions of poisoning are very common with these people. A man from Brooklyn only a few days ago came to visit me, and having to wait his turn in the reception room, sent in a note to the effect that he had been poisoned by a man with whom he had dined a short time since, and that he would not wait as the poison was “ working on him.” I had treated this patient a year previously for similar delusions and he had entirely recovered and had resumed his business, that of a shopkeeper. Some time before I first saw him he had been an inmate of the Insane Asylum at Flatbush. I sent for him to come into my consulting room, and, to quiet him till I could attend to him, poured out a dose of the fluid extract of coca and requested him to swallow it. He took the tumbler into his hand and looking at it for a moment, set’it down hastily and rushed from the house, exclaiming, “ You are as bad as the rest of them ; just as bad as the rest! ” A few days afterward he visited my son, Hr. Graeme M. Hammond, with a similar story of poisoning, but left hurriedly while preparations were being made to examine him. It is not at all uncommon for the victims of delusions of persecution to imagine that they are being acted upon by some occult influence or by some one or more of the forces of nature, as heat, magnetism, or electricity. “Spells” are laid on them by certain individuals whom they know, or by invisible persons who oidv make themselves known by their speech. In one case that was under my charge the patient, a stationer doing business in this city, had the delusion that unknown enemies— freemasons—were acting on him by electricity, which they sent into his brain through the top of his head, by powerful batteries which they had in their lodge-rooms. In another, a woman who kept a small shop in the Bowery, and who came to my clinique at the Bellevue Hospital Medical College for the purpose of getting relief, declared that all the iron railings and railway tracks had been charged with electricity in order to injure her, and that whenever she touched one of them, or even came near them, she received a severe shock. A case of a like character is cited by Semelaigne.* Very slight causes are sometimes sufficient in a patient suffering from intellectual monomania with depression to excite hallucinations which have been for some time absent. Poterin du Montel j* cites the case of a woman who had become melancholic, lost sleep, and had pains in the head and bleeding from the nose in consequence of some insignificant family disagreement. She contracted the delusion that her sisters, who were in reality devoted to her, had conspired to injure her. She also had illusions and hallucinations, saw a black head and heard voices speaking against her. The mere opening or shutting of a door, a step on the floor, or the slightest sound, was sufficient to excite these hallucinations. A somewhat similar case was at one time under my observation in which the patient, a lady thirty years old, whose mother had died insane and who was herself of a strongly-marked nervous temperament, suddenly became affected with hallucinations of hearing, by which she was told that her * Du Diagnostic et du Traitement de la Melancholic.” Memoires do VAcademic Imp'rials de M decide. Tome XXV., p. 235. f “ fltudes sur la Melancholic,” etc. Memoires de VAcademic Imperials de Mi decide. Tome XXL, p. 462.