[ 41 1 DUPUYTREN’S CONTRACTION OF THE FINGERS. BY ROBERT ABBE, M.D. Surgeon to the Out-Patient Department of the New TorJc Hospital; Consulting Physician to the Hospital for the Ruptured and Crippled. In 1832 Dupuytren distinguished, among the many deformities and contractions of the hand, one that was characterized by a drawing down of one or more fingers toward the palm, by a firm band ex- tending subcutaneously toward the wrist. It developed slowly, was not preceded by cellutitis, nor by injury, and came almost exclusively in men usually past middle life. It is four years since Mr. Adams of London again drew attention to the malady, and proposed for its relief the simple and perfect expedient of subcutaneous division of the contracted band. British Med. Journal, June 29, 1878. Dupuytren and others had advised open operations, which were not always successful and often were disastrous. The case I am about to relate is a perfect type of this rare trouble, and presents one or two features of special interest. The patient, rather a large man, aged forty-five years, came to me June 9, 1881. He had been a cloth cutter for fifteen years. He had never had syphilis, rheu- matism or gout. His occupation required the use of large scissors in his right hand but nothing in his left. Seven years ago the left little finger began to draw down toward the palm without known provocation, and had grown progressively worse, until it rested flat on the palm though it could be raised by a little ±orce to the extent shown in Fie;. 33. v o One year ago the ring finger of the right hand began to contract in the same fashion and had progressively become worse until it was as shown in Fig. 34. Of late it became such an inconvenience and so painful tnat it prevented his working. To all appearance there was a tendinous band as of the flexor tendon rising from its bed, stretched tightly beneath the skin of the palm from the base of the second phalanx of the affected finger in each hand, well up towards the wrist. The skin along this band was puckered and intimately bound to it. The joints of the affected fingers were apparently not ancliylosed, but extension beyond the amount shown in the figures was prevented by the band referred to. Careful study made it evident that these were each a