NUTlimVE 1-ROPERTIES OF iLIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 27 these purposes is solely effected by the assimilation of the AzoTizED Principles contained in all nutritious substances; and that the Non-Azotized Principles minister chiefly to the support of respiration, and to the production of animal heat. Liebig asserts that the non-azotized principles are incapable of conversion into blood, or of supporting life ; but in one of his recent works he intimates that this is possible, and a large amount of evidence might be adduced in refutation of the opinion he first enter- tained.* Neither albumen, nor starch, nor any other isolated abstract principle, however, can long support life ; a combination of two or more being requisite for this purpose. 17. Fruit, grain, roots, and all other vegetable substances used as human food, contain two or more principles belonging to each class, but in very different proportions, the azotized principles prevailing in one article, the non-azolized in another. Until very lately, scientific men have been accustomed to estimate the nutritive value of alimentary substances by the amount of nitrogen or of azotized principles contained in them; but recent experiments render it nearly certain that the non- azotized principles are a more correct measure of value, and that a liberal supply of the saccharine, amylaceous, oleaginous, and acidulous principles, is much to be preferred to an excess in the albuminous, and other azotized principlcs.f It should also be observed that those articles which con- tain the most nutriment are not always the most wholesome ; organic structure, climate, constitution, state of health, and other circumstances, must always be taken into consideration in making the selection. It will be judicious, therefore, till organic chemistry and physiology shall supply us with more certain data, so to mix the various compound aliments as to com- bine both classes of aliments, and so to conduct the various processes of cookery as not to exclude any principle requisite for complete nutrition. This may serve as a general direction, but the organs • See Food and Diet, by Dr. Prreiua, p. 43 ; Fruits and Far-inacca the Proper Food of Man, 2nd ed. p. 107. + See Fruits a7id Farinacea the Pro})er Food of Ma», 2nd ed. p. I'JO ; Lawe's and Gilbert's Experiments, Transactions of British Association, 1852 ; and Mr. Odlino's Lecture before the Society of Arts. 7lh April, 1858.