212 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. dissolved at a gentle heat; mix all the ingredients well together, and press the mixture into a jar for future use ; the apples, how- ever, should not be added till the cakes are made. Root, Heeb, and other Savoury Pies. 420. Potatoes two pounds; onions two ounces ; butter one ounce; water half a pint. Pare and cut the potatoes; put a layer of onions cut small between the layers of potatoes ; season with pepper and salt; lay the butter at the top in small pieces ; pour in the water; cover the whole with paste and bake. The onions may be replaced by mushrooms cut small. Hard boiled eggs cut in slices or small pieces, may be distributed between the layers. Half an ounce of tapioca or sago is an improvement; these should be well washed and steeped in cold water before they are added; or they may be reduced to a jelly, and added to the pie when baked. When mushrooms are not used, the flavour may be improved by the addition of a little ketchup, which may either be added when the pie is made, or poured ia with a little melted butter, etc., after the pie has been baked. Some add a little celery or powdered sage, sliced turnips, carrots, asparagus, or other vegetables. These observations are equally applicable to any of the following pies. 421. Potatoes twenty-four ounces; turnips six ounces; onions two ounces; celery one ounce; tapioca one ounce; butter one ounce; eggs three; pepper and salt. 422. Potatoes, carrots, turnips, onions, celery, equal quan- tities of each. Cut the carrots and turnips into dice, and the onions and celery into small pieces; fry them in butter with a little flour, pepper and salt till tender, but not burnt; put them in a pie dish with the sliced potatoes, a little butter and flour, and a cupful of water; stew the whole in the oven till tender, then cover with a crust and bake. 423. Potatoes, carrots, turnips, mushrooms, peas, onions, lettuces, parsley, etc, may be stewed with a little butter, pepper and salt; bake a crust over a dish, with a cup in to support it, then add the stewed vegetables.