VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 64 mon, or lemon peel. The addition of a little red beet will improve the colour, and some consider the flavour improved by a little port wine.* Pears, stuck with a few cloves, may be put into the jar, either with plain water, or with water, in which the peels and cores of either apples or pears have been boiled and strained; add the juice of a lemon, the peel cut in shreds, and a little red beet, and then stew till the fruit is tender. Drain the liquid from the pears, and to each half pint add from four to eight ounces of sugar, and when a syrup has been formed by simmering, pour it over the pears, and let them stew an hour or two, or till suflSciently soft. When intended to be kept long, more sugar must be used. Baking or stewing pears, or other hard pears, are fittest for this purpose. Some prefer treacle and sugar in equal quantities, and add a little port wine. (5.) Add five or six ounces of sugar to a quarter or half a pint of water, according to the quantity of juice contained in the fruit; let the sugar and water simmer about ten minutes, skim the syrup, and add to it a pint or pound of fruit, previously prepared; let the whole simmer till the fruit is tender. Eipe currants will require five or six minutes; green goose- berries, rhubarb, apples in halves, etc., eight or ten minutes; plums, apricots, peaches, and nectarines when divided, two to five minutes ; whole, ten to twenty minutes. If the syrup be too thin, drain it from the fruit, reduce it by simmering, and when cold, pour it over the fruit. The fruit may be served in the syrup, with bread or with rice, sago, etc., which may be stewed along with the fruit, the rice having been previously boiled, and the sago simmered five or ten minutes. Lemon peel is sometimes grated over the fruit; or the peel in thin shreds is first scalded, and then added. (c.) Take half a pint of syrup, consisting of sixteen ounces of sugar, and half a pint of water; when it is near the boiling point, put in six greengages, or other plums cut iii two ; let them remain in the syrup while it simmers two minutes ; remove them • It is better to avoid the addition of wine in this and other receipts where it is mentioned, unless particularlyrequested.