59 COOKING PROCESSES. (5.) Steaming. 62. This is generally effected by placing tlie articles to be cooked in a vessel over boiling water, the bottom being pierced with holes to admit the steam, and a cover placed upon it. This mode is generally preferred to boiling, for potatoes, puddings, and some other preparations. Nothing should be boiled in lb water over which the steamer is placed. A pudding in a mould may be steamed in a common stew-pan, by pouring into the pan a few inches of water, according to the depth of the mould. When the water boils, put in the pudding, and press the cover of the stew- pan closely on ; then simmer it gently without ceasing, till the pudding is sufficiently done. The mouth of the mould should be first covered with a well-buttered paper, then tie a thin cloth or muslin over it; care being taken that no part of the paper or cloth touches the water. This is the safer method of boiling all puddings made with polenta, maize, etc. (6.) Baking. 63. This is a process of heating, drying, and hardening, usually done in au oven, sometimes before the fire, or surrounded by hot ashes. The term is more generally applicable to pastry and its com- pounds; as bread in its various forms, cakes, pies, puddings, cheese-cakes, etc. It is sometimes used in cooking apples, potatoes, beet-root, etc., but these articles are more generally said to be roasted ; and cheese is said to be toasted, whether alone in an oven or before the fire. When articles are intended to be brown externally, as queen cakes, etc., draw them towards the mouth of the oven when sufhciently coloured. A hoc or brisk oven is used for puff and light pastry, light cakes, and raised pies. A moderate oven for apples, pears, large rich cakes, souffles, biscuits, spouge cakes. Savoy cakes, and little white pastries, which should be only slightly coloured. A slow or gentle oven for gingerbread, (unless of the light thick kind), also for meringues, etc. (7.) Roasting. 64. To roast is to cook anything by exposing it to heat before a fire; it is applied occasionally to articles cooked in an