* ARTICLES' TTSED IN VEGETARIAN DIET. 29' 1. Persons not accustomed to fruit should adopt it by degrees. 2. Fruit should be eaten as a part of a meal, with bread and other farinaceous substances. 3. It should not be eaten after a hearty meal of animal food and other mixtures, 4. It should either be ripe, or stewed with sugar; or baked either alone or in pies, puddings, etc. 5. Firm, fleshy fruits, as plums, apples, nuts, should be well masticated, otherwise the saliva and gastric juice cannot easily penetrate them, and indigestion is almost certain to be the conse- quence. The same precaution should be observed with regard to mushrooms, celery, onions, and other vegetables of a firm or tough texture. The fruits best known in this country are apples, pears, quinces, medlars, plums, peaches, apricots, nectarines, grapes, gooseberries, currants, mulberries, strawberries, raspberries, brambleberries, whortleberries, cranberries, oranges, lemons, pineapples, melons, cucumbers, vegetable-marrows, pumpkins, and what are sometimes called spring fruit, viz., rhubarb stalks.* The principal dried fruits are dates, figs, raisins, prunes, currants, etc. The following foreign fruits are also much esteemed when they can be obtained ripe and fresh : The loquat, pomegranate, litchi, longan, rambuton, akee, guava, marmelos, water-melon, plantain, banana, mango, mangostan, bread-fruit, durion, jujube, juvia, avocado pear, anchovy pear, custard apple, papaw, etc. (2.) Seeds. 20. Seeds constitute the most important division of human nutriment; they are abundantly distributed throughout the earth, and are equally adapted to the wants and organization of man, whether he reside within the tropics, or in higher latitudes. In tropical climes, rice proves highly nutritious; while "the Hudson's Bay Company find, by experience, that two pounds and a-half of maize flour a day is fully equal, or even superior, in sus- taining the capacity both for muscular exertion, and for bearing • As rhubarb contains oxalate of lime, it is condemned by some chemists as likely to produce stone in the bladder or kidneys, but I do not apprehend that any danger need be feared from its use by Vegetarians ; such effects more generally arise from a free use of animal food.