VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 48 When butter is used for light pastry, it should be sweet, and free, or nearly so, from salt; to remove the latter, wash the butter in cold water and make it up with the hands into large lumps, squeezing the water well out; or work the butter well on a marble slab, or on the pasteboard, then press it lightly with a clean soft cloth to absorb the moisture, it will then be ready for use. If good fresh butter is used, it will require very little, if any working. Butter is subject to become rancid, because it contains a small quantity of curd, water, and air, which may be removed as follows. 48. To Clarify Butter.—Heat the butter gradually over the fire in a double saucepan, to a little below the temperature of boiling water, by which means the air will be disengaged. Part of I the impurities will rise to the surface and must be skimmed off, | and the water aud butter milk will be deposited. Decant the ' clear part, or pass it through a fine sieve or muslin, then put it ' in a bottle, which must be well corked. If still greater purity be required, pour the clear fluid into another vessel containing water, heated to 140°, with which it > must be well agitated and then left to cool, when the pure butter | will rise to the top, and become solid; it may then be kept sweet for any length of time. It will be equal to the best Florence oil, and may be used for salads, sauces, raised pastry, or for frying. When wanted for use, it should be gently heated and poured out of the bottle, or cut out with a knife or other instrument. | Butter is not changed by a heat just suflicient to dissolve it (96°), but if raised to the temperature of boiling water (212°), it becomes oily as above. 49. Butter Milk.—As this contains the caseine, the sugar, and the salts of milk, it must possess nutritive qualities. It forms a very agreeable cooling beverage in febrile and inflammatory diseases, and is more easily digested than entire milk. The acid of butter-milk does not increase the acescency of the stomach, or occasion flatulency; it may, therefore, be safely used by dyspeptic persons. Butter-milk is sometimes prepared by agitating new milk in a bottle, and separating the 1 1