VEGETARIAN C00K.E11Y. 100 (/.) Mix tlie flour with a little of the cold fluid till quite smooth ; pour it to the boiling fluid, and stir it till sufficiently cooked; when nearly cold, beaten eggs may be stirred in if required. Porridge, polenta, batter for puddings, etc., are made by either of the two last methods. When intended for a baked pudding, the batter must be stirred over the fire.for a few minutes, then poured into a basin, and while it is hot, stir in the butter, sugar, grated lemon rind, and fruit (when used); as soon as it is nearly cold, add the beaten eggs. {g.) Beat the eggs and salt till the yolks and whites are well mixed; stir the fluid to them by degrees with a wooden spoon; strain about one quarter of the whole to the flour, and mix till quite smooth; then strain to it the remainder of the e.^gs and fluid very gradually ; beat the batter well during the mixing, and continue the beating for a quarter of an hour after the whole has been well mixed, (A.) Pour the boiling fluid on the flour ; cover it over and let it stand twelve hours ; then add the beaten eggs. This method is commonly used tor arrow-root, and other substances cor-sisting principally of starch. (i.) Set the flour as for bread with the yeast, beaten eggs and sugar well mixed and poured into the middle (115^?), Let them stand before the fire till the yeast has worked its way amongst the flour; add the butter beaten to a cream, currants, etc., and mix the whole well. Suite)- and Flour, etc. 116. (a.) Rub the butter into the flour or bread crumbs, till the whole is in crumbs; add the salt and sugar, and mix them into a stiffish paste with as little fluid as possible, adding it by degrees. When the yolks of eggs are used, beat them and add them to the cream or other fluid. [b.) Make the flour into a stiff paste with a portion of the butter and fluid; roll out the paste iuto a square; form the butter into a ball; place it in the centre of the paste; then close the latter around it; roll it out lightly two or three times, turning the ends always to the centre, or folding it in three. Or, after