19 ALIMENTARY PKINCIPLES. this salt or the pectate of lime may be decomposed by diluted hydrochloric acid ; the pectic acid is left as a jelly, which dries up into trausparent laminas, insoluble in water, but very soluble in alkalies. From these solutions acids precipitate it as a jelly. In this form it is slightly soluble in boiling water, but the solution gelatinizes on the addition of acids, salts, alcohol, or sugar. It is supposed not to exist ready formed in the plants, but to be pro- duced by the action of alkalies on pectine. Carrageenin.—This mucilaginous or vegeto-gelatinous sub- stance is contained in chondrus crispus, and other allied sea- weeds, which are sold in the shops under the name of carrageen, pearl, or Irish moss. It is nearly allied to pectine, and, like it, contains an excess of oxygen. Carrageen moss is extensively used, partly as a domestic remedy, and partly as a nutritive substance. It contains about 79 per cent, of carrageenin and 10 of mucus. The jelly is obtained by first steeping the moss in cold water for a few minutes, and then boiling it in water or milk. The sprigs of moss should be carefully picked and well shaken after it has been steeped. From | oz. to U oz. of moss will be sufficient for a quart of milk (44) (396). (/.) The Acidulous Alimentary Principle. 9. This principle is found chiefly in cherries, peaches, oranges, lemons, strawberries, raspberries, apples, pears, and other fruit, and in succulent vegetables. Though the vegetable acids contain little nutriment, they are of great importance to health, and should be freely used; they rouse the appetite, excite the digestive powers, and are employed with success in scorbutic, rheumatic, and other atonic and chronic complaints. {g.) The Alcoholic AHmenta7-y Frtnciple. 10. Though alcohol evolves heat by its hydrogen uniting with oxygen in the human system, " it is an obnoxious fuel. Its volatility, and the facility with which it permeates membranes and tissues, enable it to be rapidly absorbed; and when it gets into the bloody it exerts a most injurious operation, before it is burnt