SOUPS. 227 Sliced onions fried in butter with, a little flour, sugar, salt, and pepper, till they are browned, and th>en rubbed through a sieve, are useful to heighten the colour and flavour of brown soups and sauces. Onions freed from their outer skin, dried gradually to a deep brown, in a very moderately heated oven, and flattened like Norfolk biffins, will keep for almost any length of time, and are very useful for the same purpose. Onions, eschalots, or even a little garlic may be introduced in the most delicate dishes, if only so well blended with other flavours as not to be objectionable. A small piece of garlic crushed with a knife and stirred in is sufficient. It is useless to put several ingredients of the same character into either soups or sauces, as cloves and allspice, mace and nutmeg, marjoram, thyme, and savoury, etc.; soups are also more wholesome when not complicated by too great a variety of grain, roots, etc. Nouilles (196), and forcemeat balls of various sorts, are also used in soups; some of them are called Passover Balls (527). 481. As butter loses its sweetness by boiling, it should be added after the soup has been sufficiently cooked, except when the vegetables are stewed in the butter. Neither eggs nor cream should be added to soups or sauces till all the other ingredients have been well boiled, and the whole of a proper thickness; and after they have been added, the soup should be removed from the fire, carefully shaken or stirred in one direction till ready, but not allowed to boil again. 482. Thickenhiff.—Fine, fresh, rice flour, which has been passed through a lawn sieve, is best for thickening soups generally but arrowroot is preferable for white soups. Tous-les-mois' potato flour, or roux, may also be employed for the same purpose • from one to two ounces for a quart of soup. The flour, etc., used for thickening should be thoroughly blended with the sugar, salt pounded spices, ketchup, etc. Add to it very gradually sufficient cold liquid to render it of the consistence of batter; when quite smooth stir it into the boiling soup, which should be simmered and stirred for ten minutes afterwards. Good bran tea boUed with the vegetables is useful for thickening. 483. Seasoninff.—Sances, being intended to give a relish to things otherwise insipid, admit of being more highly seasoned