175 PUDDINGS. To Prepare Fruit for Puddings and Pies. 285. Rhubarb, sometimes called spring fruit, if clean and tender, need not be peeled, but only cut into pieces about one inch long; if coarse and stringy, remove the peel. Apples should be pared,* cored, and used either whole, cut in halves,'quarters, or smaller portions; or chopped fine, grated, or reduced to a compote, as may be preferred. When used whole or in halves, fill up the space left by coring, with butter, sugar, marmalade, raspberry jam, etc.; join the halves, enclose the whole in creed grain or in paste, put the pudding in a cloth, or, if surrounded with paste, in a knitted or netted cloth, and boil it from forty-five to sixty minutes. When apples begin to lose their flavour, add a little lemon peel, marmalade, etc. Pears should be peeled and cut in slices and used either alone or mixed with apples. Hard pears are best for puddings and pies. Prunes should be scalded and stoned, and the kernels simmered with the fruit in syrup or cranberry juice over a slow fire for about ten minutes; a little raspberry vinegar or currant juice may be added to them. Cranberries are sometimes stewed for about twenty minutes with a little sugar or fine treacle and a few spoonfuls of water; about three ounces of sugar to a pint of fruit. Let them cool previously to using them. Rhubarb, apples, and gooseberries may be prepared in the same way, Cranberries may be used with apples, or with any very sweet jam. Black Currants may be used for either puddings or pies, if not quite ripe; stew them with a little water and sugar during a quarter of an hour. ligs should be sliced, covered with milk and stewed with a little butter and sugar. Apples which are rather acid may be mixed with them. 286. Fruit puddings are formed by combining fruit with farinaceous substances after the following methods. • An easy way of removing the rind from apples or pears is to put them into boiling water for a few minutes ; the rind may then easily be separated by a knife.