VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 218 fine a dessert-spoonful; two middle-sized onions boiled and shred ; cayenne and salt, a little of each. The whole should be of a light consistency, and may then be either fried, or baked in cups. Instead of the onion add chives, beets, or spinach chopped small, one dessert-spoonful; sweet leeks, a small tea-spoonful; lemon thyme, one tea-spoonful. A very little tarragon may also be added. 447. Eggs four ; butter one to two ounces; 'bread crumbs four table-spoonfuls; parsley and chives cut very fine, one table- spoonful of each; cream or milk as may be required; a little salt, pepper, cayenne, or nutmeg. Instead of chives, leeks or onions may be used. 448. Eggs four; butter one to two ounces; bread crumbs two ounces; flour and oatmeal half an ounce of each; potatoes one or two mashed ; onions one to two ounces ; sage half a tea- spoonful, lemon thyme and sweet marjoram mixed, half a tea-spoonful. 449. Eggs four; butter one ounce, or olive oil one table- spoonful ; bread crumbs two table •• spoonfuls; haricot beans boiled one pint; parsley half an ounce ; milk half a tea-cupful; salt and pepper. Steep, boil, and then mash the beans with the milk; rub them through a sieve or fine colander, and add the other ingredients ; pour the omelet into a buttered dish, and bake it in a moderately hot oven one hour. Serve with brown sauce. 450. Eggs four; butter two ounces; macaroni one ounce; bread crumbs four ounces ; cream or new milk a quarter of a pint; chopped parsley a quarter of an ounce; sweet leeks one tea-spoonful; lemon thyme, marjoram, winter savoury, and sweet basil mixed, one tea-spoonful. Boil the macaroni till tender, and cut it in small pieces ; boil the cream, pour it on the bread crumbs, and cover them with a plate. "When cold, add the herbs, butter melted, eggs beaten, and the macaroni; mix them well, and season with mace, cayenne, and white pepper, salt, and spice powder. Pour the whole into a buttered dish or mould; steam it with paper over the top three quarters of an hour, or bake it in the oven. Serve with mushroom sauce or with brown sauce and currant jelly.