209 PIES, TARTS, PASTIES, ETC. For Fruit Pies a very thin strip of paste should be placed round the edge of the dish, fill it well with fruit, and moisten the edge of the paste, that the cover which is to be placed over the whole'may adhere. In winter the dish should be warm, and the pie should be baked in a quick oven. For Savoury Pies the sides, as well as the edges of the dish, should be lined with paste. The upper crust may vary from half an inch to an inch in thickness. If the paste be light, the thick- ness wm be double when baked. For the mode of preparing paste for pies, see 186, etc. _ A hole should be made in the centre of the top of the crust, or just withm the border of pies and turnovers, that some of the steam may escape; this will prevent the juice or gravy from boiling over. A slip of writing paper rolled up, but not close, may be inserted to keep the hole open. Some persons insert a small cup in the pie to prevent the escape of the syrup, but it has no such eftect,_for the cup remains empty until the pie cools, after which there is no danger of the syrup escaping. As the pie cools, the syrup IS forced into the cup, and is thus prevented from mixing with the contents of the pie, if this be thought desirable; the cup also will assist to support the cover. A little water should be added to the contents of a savoury pie but sugar or treacle only should be added to fruit, as water would destroy its flavour. 410. Pasties or Turnovers are formed by rollin<^ out paste about one-third of an inch thick and six inches s^quare. ° Jheftu IS then laid on one half the paste, the otber half turned over it and the edges wetted a Uttle, and then united by being weU pressed together. Bake them on tins or flat dishes Apples stewed as for sauce, rhubarb, scalded gooseberries pre serves, etc., may be used in filling them. ^ _ 411 Pufi-s are a smaller kind of Turnover, and may be made triangular, semicircular, etc. 412 Fruit cakes are made thus: Procure some pieces of tin about a foot long, and six, nine, or more inches wide EoU to on.f Tr t^i^k' '-^Se enou'h IVri I'V " " ^^y'' «f meat (417 etc)., about half an inch thick; cover it with paste about twice the