TO PRESERVE FRUIT FOR FUTURE USE, 71 in boxes, casks, or a cool, dry room, ^vitli dry coarse cloths, fern, chaff, oat-husks, or dry sand between the layers; or each apple may be folded in paper, and packed rather close. Cover the whole well over with any of these articles, so as to exclude air and light as much as possible. When the atmospheric air cannot be completely excluded from fruits, they should not be put in drawers or other close places, as the want of free ventilation will facilitate their decay. To Bottle Fruit: 74. Gather the fruit when very dry, if possible while the sun is upon it, and bottle it on the same day. Be careful not ; to bruise it while picking or dressing it, and reject all that is not sound. Currants should be stripped from their stalks I with a fork; rhubarb pared and cut into short lengths. j Kidney beans in the green state, should be cleared from the strings or strong fibres, and when large they should be cut lengthwise into two or three pieces. Previously to using the bottled beans, scald them in water with a little salt, and let them simmer till tender. The bottles should be sound, very clean, dry, and with wide 1 necks. They should also be well fitted with good corks. Fill the bottles with the fruit, and whilst filling, shake them gently, and cork them very lightly. Put them in a pan of cold water, with a little hay at the bottom; set the pan on the fire and raise the temperature of the water very gradually to 160", I and keep it at this point or below 170°, for twenty or thirty ' minutes.* As the fruit will shrink, fill up each bottle, as far as the bottom of the neck, with fruit from one of the other bottles, taking care, while doing so, not to bruise the fruit. "When as , many bottles have been thus filled as there is sufilcient fruit for, remove the pan from the fire, and take out each bottle separately, fill it to within an inch of where the cork will reach, with boiling water ; cork it well immediately, shaking it as little as possible; tie down the cork and cover it well with melted resin or wax, and return each bottle as it is finished to the pan of water, where it •The heat coag^ulates ihe albumen (13), and otherwise retards fer- mentatiou.