VEGETABIAN COOKERY. 36 The basis of Bright's Nutritive Farina and of the Prince of Wales's food is potato-starch; Gardiner's Alimentary Prepara- tion consists chiefly of fine rice flour. Bullock's ;S'e)MoZa.—Gluten of wheat, witli a small portion of starch. Very like, if not identical with, Semolina. Du Barry's Bevalenta ^raJjca.—Egyptian or Arabian lentils and barley meal. Sugar or salt may be added, also celery seed, or some other flavour. The following is a good mixture : — Ked or Arabian lentil flour, or pea flour. . 2 lbs. Barley flour, or Indian-corn flour, or rice flour. 1 lb. Salt or Sugar 3 oz. Lentils and peas do not differ much in their properties. 30. -Srt^o.—This article is obtained from the pith of various species of palms. It is manufactured in the Moluccas, and is imported into this country from Singapore. There are three kinds of it, namely, sago-meal, poarl-sago, and common sago. Pearl- sago consists of small pinkish or yellowish grains, about the size of a pin's head, and is the kind in general use for domestic purposes. Sago is nuti'itive and easy of digestion ; it should be washed in two or three waters, and then soaked in cold water for an hour, previously to being cooked. By bleaching it may be rendered perfectlv wbite. "Sago and saloop," observes Count Eumford, "thicken and change to the consistency of a jelly (and, as I suppose, prepare for decomposition) a greater quantity of water than barley, and both sago and saloop are known to be nutritious in a very extraordinary degree." 31. Tapioca.—is obtained ft'om the tuberous root of a poisonous plant found in the Brazils, called Jatropha manihot. The farina, or starchy matter, is dried on hot plates into the form of irregular small lumps, in which state it^ is called Tapioca. Though consisting principally of starch, it is said to contain about three per cent, of gluten. It is free from colouring matter, on which account it is purer than sago, and it yields a more consistent jelly than some other kinds of starch. Like all