AKTICLES USED IN VEGETARIAN DIET. 49 butter when it has been formed. The taste of turnips in butter may be obviated by adding butter-milk to the cream previously to churning, or by adding a little salt-petre. 50. Whey and Curd may be formed from either new or skimmed milk, by various means (15). The whey contains sugar of milk, lactic acid, some salts, and frequently a little butter and curd. Boil a pint of milk, and at the commencement of ebulli- tion, add either white wine or one drachm of cream of tartar, (bitartrate of potash) or of powdered alum, or a little citric acid in solution, or of lemon juice, or one ounce of tamarind pulp, or lialf an ounce of bruised mustard seed, etc. When the curd is formed, strain the whey from it. Whey may be regarded as iterative, nutritive, and laxative, and it is considered useful in febrile, inflammatory, and pulmonary aflfections. 51. Caseine, or Curd.—This nutritive product is combined more or less with oleaginous principles, according as it is made from new or skimmed milk. It exists in two conditions, partly in solution, and in part forming a transparent membrane, which surrounds the globules of fat, and keeps them from coalescing, as occurs when they consolidate into butter. If a few drops of icetic acid be added to a little milk, the globules become Jistorted, and drops of fat can be seen emerging from them by the aid of a good microscope, the investing capsule of caseine having been broken. It maybe eaten with sugar, cream, etc., or it may be formed into cheese-cakes, or cheese. When the curd is required for cheese-cakes, etc., it may be formed thus:—Beat an egg up with a dessert spoonful of flour, then add it, with half a tea-spoonful of powdered alum, to a pint of milk, nearly at the boiling point; the curd will then rise to the top; but if the addition be made after the milk has boiled, the curd will fall to the bottom. 52. Cheese.—This nutritious production is made from curd by pressing out the whey. It varies in quality and richness according to the materials of which it is made. It may be formed—1, of milk and cream, as Stilton cheese; 2, of entire milk, as Cheshire and Cheddar cheese ; 3, of new milk mixed with skimmed milk, as in Gloucestershire; 4, of skimmed milk only, as in Sufi"olk, Holland, and Italy. Some of the most 4