METHODS OF MIXING FLOTTR, KTC. 99 moderately warm place. In the morning add the salt and as mycli warm water as will make the whole into a stiiF paste ; knead it well, and let it stand near the fire for two hours ; then form it into loaves and bake. [d.) Put the meal or flour into au earthenware or wooden bowl, make a hole in the centre of the flour with a wooden spoon to within an inch of the bottom. Stir the yeast into a portion of the warm fluid (90°) and let it stand for a tew minutes to settle. Pour the clear part of the yeast and fluid, (rejecting the sediment, unless the yeast has been previously purified, 125) into the hole which has been made iu the flour, and stir in gradually so much of the latter from the circumference or side as will form a thick smooth batter. Scatter a thick layer of the flour over the top, cover the whole with a thick clean cloth, and place it where it will be warm (between 60° and 70°), elevated a little above the floor of the room, and free from any current of air. Let it remain there an hour or two, or until the yeast has risen and cracked the flour, or until bubbles appear ; a large qu mtity may stand all night. Remove the bowl to a tabic and pour into the sponge or raised batter, as required, the remainder of the fluid while warm, and with the salt dissolved in it, but avoid rendering the dough too moist; stir in as much of the meal or flour as you can with a spoon, cover the leaven with plenty of the meal, and knead the dough slowly and steadily with the back of the closed hands, to which it should be prevented Irom adhering by a free use of the meal. When nearly the whole of the meal has been worked in, draw the edges of the dough frequently towards the centre, that the whole may bo well and evenly mixed. (Jontiuue the kneading till all the meal, crumbs, and lumps have disappeared, and till it ceases to stick to the hands ; then cover it ao-ain with the cloth and leave it to rise a second time. "When it has risen very much and begins to crack, which may be the case in about an hour, put it on the paste-board, or table, make it into loaves and bake them in tins or earthen pots. The loaves should be cut slightly on the tops, and just below the edges of the dishes, with the point of a sharp knife, by which means the dough will rise belter. (e.) Stir the flour gradually into the boiling fluid.