149 TO STEW HOOTS, TrBERS, ETC. rich browa gravy, or melted butter. Or when toiled, dip them iu stiff batter, or ia bran tea boiled to and fry them; then serve with brown sauce, etc. Wben boiled, mashed, formed into cakes, and fried in butter, they are said to have the flavour of oyster patties, or of smelts. To Stew Roots, Tubees, etc. 223. See 61. Prepare them as for boilirg. Boil them, but not till quite tender ; let them remain till cold^ then remove the skin by peeling or scraping; cut them in dice or in slices, and when cold put them in a stew-pan with a little milk or cream and a little salt; simmer them till tender, then stir m a little butter and flour or oatmeal, etc. ; mix the whole well and simmer it a little longer. If preferred sweet, add a little sugar and fruit; if savoury, add white pepper or cayenne, minced parsley, chives, leeks, garlic, onions, etc., shred fine. 224. Or, dissolve in a stew-pan from two to four ounces of butter, add a small dessert-spoonful of flour, shake the pan two or three minutes, and add slowly a small cupful of boiling water,* a little pepper and salt, and a tea-spoonful of minced parsley ; put in the sliced tubers, previously boiled, and shake them gently over a clear fire until quite hot, and until the sauce adheres to them well. At the instant of serving add a dessert-spoonful of strained lemon juice. A quarter of a pint or more of thick white sauce may be used instead of the butter, etc., with or without the minced parsley. 225. Or, cut the potatoes or other tubers as for a pie ; put them in a pan in layers with a little chopped onion, pepper, and salt upon each layer, and on the top lay an ounce or two of butter, add a little water, cover the pan, and stew the contents gently for about half an hour, or bake ihem in an oven. 226. Or, if intended for soup, dissolve the butter in a stew- pan, add a tea-spoonful of brown sugar, then the sliced vegetables ; cover them closely and stew them very slowly till soft and lightly browned, which may require from twenty-five to sixty minutes. * Whenever water is added to soups, sauces, etc, it should be very hot or boiling.