VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 198 except the eggs, some hours, or even a day before they are cooked. When milk is used, the batter should not be mixed more than an hour or two before it is cooked, especially in hot weather, it should also be set in a cool place. Batter puddings expand more and consequently are lighter when boiled than baked, and they should be rather overboiled, than not boiled long enough. As flour is improved by long boiling, and milk injured by it) water is preferable to milk in making batter for boiled puddings; on the contrary, milk is better for baked puddings, which are im- proved by being baked quickly. Boiled Batter Puddings. 375. See 60. Batter will be lighter when boiled in a cloth than in a mould; it should be well beaten immediately before it is poured in, and put into boiling water as soon as it has been secured with a string, or inclosed in the mould. The cloth should be tied loosely for a bread pudding, but tightly for a batter pudding ; unless the cloth or the mould be well filled with the batter, the water will enter and break the pudding. The pudding should be kept in motion for a few minutes after it has been put in the water to prevent the batter from settling, and the cloth from adhering to the bottom of the pan ; a plate put in the pan will serve the latter purpose. The water must be kept boiling till the pudding is enough, or it will be sad and heavy, or, if a bread pudding it will be broken and watery. Keep the pudding covered with water all the time it is being cooked, and, if necessary, add fresh boiling water to supply the loss by evaporation. Dip the pudding in cold water when removed from the pan ; the pudding will then more easily leave the cloth. To serve the pudding, place it with the cloth in a basin ; open the cloth and lay the face of the dish upon the pudding, turn the whole over, take off the basin, remove the cloth, and serve imme- diately, or it will become sad. Baked Batter Puddings. 376. See 63. The batter for a baked pudding should not fill the mould within an inch or two; if the mould is too full,