14 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. sugar to the daily diet; this quantity, however, is larger than is necessary or desirable." * The result of observations made on the excretions during the use of sugar by Dr. Bockeb, shows that it restricts the waste of the body, by decomposition, more than any other known sub- stance, and that its effects are most marked on the products of the destruction of bone; hence its value where there is a tendency to disease of the osseous system, to rickets, or softened bones. The lactic acid formed from sugar dissolves phosphate of lime, and this is the principal ingredient of bones and teeth. By its'dissolution it becomes accessible to the bones and teeth, and as sugar effects this, its utility is apparent. Persons who are predisposed to plethora, apoplexy, or any inflammatory affection, should not indulge in it. _ _ Honey resembles sugar in its alimentary properties, and is rather laxative. When taken in excess, ifis apt, particularly m persons of delicate digestive organs, to induce flatulency, spas- modic pains in the bowels, and diarrhoea. {c.) The Amylaceous Alimentary/ Principle. {Farinaceous or Starchy Sulstances.) 6 Starch, or fecula, is a very important compound, consisting of small grains of various shapes, and is very abundant in the veo-etable kingdom. It is found in lichens, ferns, roots, stems, tubers, fruits, and seeds, especially wheat, barley, rye, oats, maize, ''''LTeguminous seeds, as peas and beans, starch is associated with a small portion of fatty oil, and in emulsives with a large portion of oil, which may be separated by pressure, as in linseed. The grains of Tous-les-mois are largest, and those of potato starch are next in size; those of the leguminoste are very small, and those of wheat and rice the smallest. . , , •a.a When substances containing starch are minutely divided or reduced to a powder, and agitated in cold water, the starch is washed out and deposited at the bottom of the vessel. It is insoluble in cold water, alcohol, or ether. . Digestion and Its Derangements, Ino^^s K. Chambeks, M.D.