ARTICLES USED IN VEGETARIA.N DIET. 63 the elbow close to the side; let the entire motion be from the wrist, the stroke quick, short, and horizontal, and let the egg beater always reach the bottom of the pan. Do not cease beating as soon as the eggs are in a foam, but persevere till all the bubbles have disappeared, the surface smooth, and the beaten egg as thick ^ a rich boiled custard. These observations apply to the beating of the whites and yolks together, which may always be done if they have to be afterwards mixed. (8.) Flavotjeing ok Seasoning. I 55. All strong flavours are objectionable to a healthy ■stomach, unless habit has reconciled it to their use ; and we find that those articles of diet which possess the least decided flavour can be relished the longest, and require less frequently to be changed—as bread, potatoes, rice, etc.; those on the contrary, which stimulate the palate most, soon satiate, and cannot be per- severed with so long without some change being desired, such as game, beef, mutton, all rich cakes, rich puddings, and highly seasoned dishes. "When flavouring or seasoning is used in prepa- tions otherwise insipid, it should be done with great care, as strong provocatives of the appetite are injurious. A slight or subdued flavour, however, such as we find in the various fruits may be imparted with advantage to most culinary preparations. The savours met with in the vegetable kingdom are innumerable, and defy any attempt at classification. Those most worthy of notice in cookery are the sweet, sour or acid, nutty, aromatic, vinous, bitter, acrid or pungent, acerb, saline, and their combi- nations. Sweet.—As sugar, treacle, and honey. 1 Sour.—Acetic acid or vinegar, lemon, verjuice, etc. Nutty.—Sweet Almonds, cocoa-nut, almond flavour. Aromatic.—The various spices, as pepper, pimento or allspice, cayenne, nutmeg, cinnamon, cloves, mace, ginger, capsicums,* ketchup, celery. • The principal v irieties of the capsicum are the loni^ red, the Chili, and the bird's eye. They are all used as ingredients in soups, sauces, salads, and pickles; or, when ripe and dried, ther are ground to a coarse powder to make cayenne,