190 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. other ingredients, and ih.e pudding should be boiled long and quickly; from three to five hours or more. To mix the ingredients, see 119, and respecting the pouring of hot fluids over bread, see 58. A few spoonfuls of fresh small beer, or one of yeast, or a very little baking powder, may be used to render a pudding lightj instead of eggs. A little ground rice, or a mealy potato, grated while hot, and beaten well with a spoonful of milk will also make it lighter. Bread puddings are also lighter and moister when closely tied in stout cloths well floured, than when boiled in moulds; a plate or dish placed under them, will prevent them adhering to the bottom. 343. Upon a baker's roll, cake, or portion of bread of convenient form weighing about eight ounces, repeatedly pour a mixture consisting of a pint of milk, or milk and cream, and from one to four eggs; or, one egg; flour two tea-spoonfuls; brown sugar three tea-spoonfuls; milk one pint, salt a little. Repeat the pouring till the whole fluid has been absorbed by the bread; then steam it on a plate till quite hot through. Seive with sweet sauce. A little powdered cinnamon may be sprinkled on the top; " or it may be covered with marmalade or finely chopped almonds. Or blanched almonds may be stuck in, and a rich custard poured over it. 344. Thickly butter a plain mould or basm; arrange raisins, currants, or dried cherries after any pattern at the bottom and sides of the mould; lay slips or narrow slices of cake, muffins, sponge cake, ratiffias, macaroons or other sweet cakes, or a mixture of them, in the mould till about throe-quarters full; pour over them milk, or milk and cream mixed, or a custard mixture n 2 or 3 380). A few more raisins or currants may also be' put between the layers. Lay buttered writing paper, and a floured cloth over; then boil the pudding half an hour, or steam it forty-five minutes. The mixture should be poured on gradually, allowing the bread to absorb one portion before another is added. If baked, the bread should soak two hours before the pudding is put in the oven, which should be at a moderate heat.