1 ARTICLES USED IN VEGETARIAN DIET. 31 value of flour, and its price in the market, are proportionate, not to the amount of gluten, but to the amount of starch which it contains, and the finest quality of flour, that obtained from the cen- tre of the grain, is always poorest in azotized constituents," con- sisting almost entirely of starch. It also appears, from an extended course of experiraeuts by Mr. Lawes and Dr. Gilbert, that in the most fully matured crops of wheat, the proportion of nitrogen is lowest, and in the least matured, the highest; that both in Europe and America the most matured crops were grown in the coldest latitudes, and that the characteristics of a highly matured crop are, low proportion of water, low proportion of ash, and low proportion of nitrogen. Hence it is that the wheat grown in this and other northern countries is not so well adapted for the formation of macaroni as the Italian wheat, the latter containing a much larger proportion of gluten. 22. Wheat.—The native country of this grain is unknown. It is said that a wild grass, abundant in Sicily, and called by botanists, JEgilops ovata, has by cultivation been transformed into wheat. The fibrine of wheat is combined with more gluten or gliadiue than any other grain, hence its capability of being converted into light or raised bread. (14.) Macaroni, vermicelli, and Cagliari paste are preparations from wheat. Of the first there are three kinds, the pipe, the celery, and the ribbon macaroni. Vermicelli is similar to macaroni, but drawn into finer threads. The Cagliari paste is in the form of stars, rings, Jlenrs-de-lis, Maltese crosses, etc. They are used principally in soups, puddings, or mixed with cheese. Semolina or mannacroup and soujee are granular preparations of wheat deprived of bran. They consist of the large hard grains of wheat flour retained in the bolting machine after the fine flour has passed through its meshes. Semolina is generally imported from the Baltic, and in Russia it is probably manu- factured from buck-wheat. It is of a dingy white colour, and has a farinaceous and rather insipid taste. 23. Ort!<s.—"When oats are deprived of their integuments or coverings, they are called grils or groats; these, when crushed, be- come Embden groaU^ and, when ground into flour, prepared groats.