104 VEGETARIAN COOKEHY. this purpose. In the last application of the word, bread varies very much in its qualities according to the material of which it as made, as white bread, household bread, various kinds of oat bread, etc.; it also varies according to the mode of preparing it; as fermented or leavened bread, unfermented or unleavened bread, also muffins, rolls, cakes, etc., in endless variety. Coarsely ground and undressed wheat meal is undoubtedly the most wholesome, and should always be preferred to fine flour, from which the bran or skin of the grain has been removed (21). The bran is a natural condiment, rich in gluten and fatty matter, and even the ligneous portions of it, though indigestible, cannot be well dispensed with, particularly by those who lead a sedentary or inactive life. To some who have not been used to it, or whose digestive powers are weak, the bran may at first act too much as an irritant—in such cases bread made of coarse meal should be adopted by degrees. ' It has been generally supposed that the colour of brown bread is due to the particles of bran contained in it; but recent observa- tions prove that the brown colour is owing to the action of cerealine upon the starch of the flour, converting it into dexaune or sugar during the raising and baking. The scattered particles of bran will impart a yellow colour to the bread, but will not turn it brown. Cerealine is almost identical with diastase, the active principle of malt, and is due to the action of moisture and heat upon the albuminous principle of the bran; hence flour with the bran in it is much more subject to deterioration than fine flour. The addition of a small quantity of alum will either prevent altogether, or greatly retard, the transformation of starch into sugar ; hence the whiteness and dryness of bread in which alum has been employed. Lime water is equally efficacious.* As starch is converted into dextrine in the process of digestion, it is possible that this change during fermentation and baking may be no real disadvantage. In the crust of bread the starch always undergoes considerable conversion. "When corn is ground by mill-stones, small particles of stone are frequently mixed with the ujidressed meal; the bran also is given • See Odling'3 Lecture in Journal of the Society of Arts, April 9, 1858.