PUDDINGS. 179 of small income, wlio brought up a family very reputably, which he chiefly fed on apple-dumplings. Pudding cloths should be laid in hot water as soon as removed, well washed, and quickly dried iu the open air, then folded, and kept clean. 297. Stewed fruit, jams, marmalade, currants, chopped raisins, or treacle, etc., way be spread upon a light paste, then rolled up and boiled in a cloth. Roll out the paste thin and cut it eight or ten inches broad, and as long as convenient. Spread upon it a thick layer of fruit, leaving an inch at each end free from fruit; roll it up and twist the ends; wrap it in a floured cloth, or put it in a net, and boil it an hour, or an hour and a half, according to size. These are sometimes called " Roly Poly Puddings." 298. Line a buttered basin with paste, put in a layer of fruit and sugar, then one of paste; repeat the alternate layers of fruit and paste till the basin is full; cover I he top with paste, then boil or steam the pudding, and when ready, turn it out of the basin upon a dish. Fruit and Bread Puddings. 299. Cut twelve ounces of bread into slices, a quarter of an inch thick; toast them and then soak them iu boiling water or milk ten minutes, place some of the slices at the bottom of a dish ; fill the dish with rhubarb, apples, or other fruit properly prepared, and add the requisite quantity of sag ir ; place the other slices of bread at the top, then bake at a moderate heat. 300. Butter a mould or dish, and strew it thickly with bruised sugar; lay round the inside of the mould long slices of bread, the slices overlapping each other ; put in apples pared, cored, and sliced very thin ; add also sugar, grated lemon peel, and orange marmalade; cover the fruit with slices of bread, and bake at a tolerably good heat. 301. Line a basin with bread and butter, then add a layer of fruit and sugar; another layer of bread and butter, fruit, etc., till the basin is full; pour a little water or milk over the whole, cover with a cloth, and boil an hour. Bread crumbs may be used instead of bread and butter. 302. Butter a dish, put in ten ounces of cut apples or other