132 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. biscuit funnel and draw it along clean white paper until you have formed biscuits of the length and thickness required; sift sugar over them and bake in a quick oven, but watch them carefully, as they are very soon baked. 179. Chesterfield Biscuits.—Proceed as above, adding an ounce of caraway seeds. 180. Cocoa-riut Biscuits.—Grate the inside of the cocoa- nut ; add to it the whites of two eggs and four ounces of loaf sugar pounded. Mix the whole well and divide it into small rocky pieces. Put them on a slightly buttered tin and bake in a rather slow oven. GrNGERBREAD, PaKKTN, ETC. 181. These mixtures of flour, treacle, etc., are usually raised by means of alkalies and acids. When carbonate of potash, soda, or magnesia is added, the glucic and melassic acids of the treacle act upon it and set carbonic acid free (5 and 123). Mix tbe flour and alkali thoroughly, then dissolve and add the acid; let the butter, treacle, and spices be added in the usual manner, dissolve the butter and pour it with the treacle among the flour and alkali. The whole must then be incorporated and formed into dough by kneading, then set it aside for a period varying from half an hour to an hour; it will then be ready for the oven. Potash imparts a disagreeable alkaline flavour to the dough unless it be disguised by some aromatic ingredient. A very small portion of baking powder may be used instead of the alkali and acid. Or, mix the sugar and flour, rub in the butter, add the spices, make a hole in the middle to receive the treacle; put the carbonate of soda, magnesia, or other alkali in the middle, moisten it with a little water to dissolve it, pour in the treacle, and after stirring in some of the flour, pour over it the acid diluted with water ; mix the whole well and let it be rather a soft dough than a stiff paste. Or, mix the alkali and flour very intimately together, rub in the butter, add the sugar, and ginger also if approved, a quarter of an ounce of ground caraway seeds, lemon rind, candied lemon, essence of lemon, etc. If eggs are used, let them be well whisked, then add them and the treacle gradually to