I ARTICLES USED IN VEGETAUIA.N DIET. 51 fluid evaporated, and causing decay ; hence, eggs become lighter the longer they have been laid, newly laid eggs being heavier than water with about 10 per cent, of its weight of salt, whilst old or bad eggs float in it. An egg, while boiling, loses 2 or 3 per cent, of its weight by the escape of albumen and salts, through the shell into the water, a certain portion of the water occupying their place; hence, eggs should never be boiled in impure or tainted water. For the same reason eggs should not be placed near anything of a musty or disagreeable odour. Butter, or a mixture of oil and wax, rubbed over the shell, or a jsolution of gum arable,* will preserve the egg from decay, by stopping up the pores, and, consequently, keeping out the air. If plunged for five minutes in water, heated to 140°, or boiled one minute and then oiled, it will be a still greater protection, as the albumen next the shell is thus coagulated, i The freshness of eggs may be ascertained as follows:— 1st, Recently laid eggs sink in water, containing about 10 per cent, of salt; bad eggs float in it. 2nd. If they sound hollow when shaken, they have not been recently laid. 3rd. If when held between the eye and a strong light, as the light of a candle, dark spots are observed on the shell, the proba- bility is that the egg is bad, and this is certainly the case if there is no transparency in the shell. 4th. When an egg is quite fresh, the shell will be of a brilliant light yellow, and without spots. 5th. "When the small end of a fresh egg is applied to the tip of the tongue, a cool sensation is produced, the same end of a stale or bad egg is felt warm, because the white of the former, being in contact with the shell, abstracts the heat from the tongue more rapidly than the air bubble in the latter. It is always advisable to break each egg separately into a cup, lest one bad egg spoil the whole. The yolk as well as the white is soluble in cold water, and is coagulated in boiling water. When the yolk is beaten in water, it forms a true animal emul- sion ; and if warm water be employed and sugar added, there is •Mucilage of gum arable made with equal parts of gum and water. Apply two coats vritli a small brush, the second after the first is dry.