24 VEGETARIAN COOKEXIY. rye, barley, oats, maize, and rice. In wheat it is included in the substance called gluten, the proximate principle which renders wheat so valuable in the formation of bread. Gluten.—If wheat flour be kneaded under cold water, the starch will be washed out and deposited at the bottom of the vessel; the albumen, gum, and sugar will be held in solution by the water; and the tenacious, elastic, grey mass which remains undissolved is called raw, impure, or common gluten. If the water be carefully and slowly evaporated, the gluten may be preserved in a dry state for a long time without undergoing any change, but if left in a wet state, one of its constituents, fibrine, will soon assume the- putrefactive fermentation, as was observed of albumen, and the remaining part, gliadine, is then soluble in strong alcohol. If raw gluten be well washed and then boiled in alcohol, the undissolved portion is vegetable fibrine, called also zymomin, from |i5/at) ferment; the alcoholic solution, when subjected toslo^' evaporation, ■fields pure gluten ox gliadine, which consists of two substances, one of which is deposited as the hot alcoholic solution cools, and has been termed mucine, the other remains in solution in the cold liquor, and has been called glutine. The quantity of pure gluten (glutine and mucine) contained in different alimentary substances, has not been accurately deter- mined. Wheat contains a considerable quantity of it, but the fibrine of other grain is unaccompanied by gli;tdine; barley and oatmeal yield only incoherent filaments of nearly pure fibrine. COMPOSITION OF HAW GLUTEN. Pure Gluten 1 | Glutine . . 20 or Gliadine ) ( Mucine ... 4 Vegetable fibrine or zymomin . . .72 Oily Matter 3-7 Starch, truces Eaw gluten is highly nutritious, and is capable of sustaining animal life duiing long periods without admixture with any other principle, in which it differs from albumen and all other principles; this, no doubt, arises from its being a compound, as above stated. (c.) Caseine or Legumine. 15. Caseine is probably not a simple organic body, but a mixture