84 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. London, but its higli price will prevent it being generally used. One-third of maize flour and two-thirds of wheaten flour form a pleasant variety of bread, when raised and kneaded in the usual way. As Indian meal is deficient of true gluten, it cannot be con- verted into raised bread. The glutinous residue from tbe washing of Indian corn dough differs from the gluten of wheat, and is characterized by the solubility of about tworthirds of it in alcohol, and, therefore allied to vegetal gelatine. Indian meal should be boiled over a slow fire for two or three hours, whicb will effectually remove a certain disagreeable raw taste, which simple baking will not entirely effect. Millet and other small grains are seldom used for buman food in this country. (5.) Legtminosce- 28. The leguminous seeds best known in this country are peas, beans, and lentils. These seeds contain more nitrogen than the cereal grains, but less oil or fat; the latter, therefore, should be addcJ, in pre- parations of leguminous seeds, in the form of butter, cream, oil, yolk of egg, or by mixing the meal of peas, etc., with oatmeal or Indian corn meal. Pcas.—lu the manufacture of the finest ''brose meal," the foreign white and the field-grey peas are mixed, in various propor- tions, the finer qualities being made chiefly from the first, and the inferior from the second. The quality of the meal also depends upon the greater or less portion of the envelop contained m it, the central portions of the pea being most agreeable. Dr William Davidson, in his Treatise on Diet, says, «' The pea is easily digested, and is less liable to produce acidity than oats, barley, etc. It is well adapted, as a farinaceous aliment, for those who have weak digestive organs, particularly if the fine meal be employed. A considerable quantity of boiling water should be mixed with the farina in making the preparation, so as to give it a thin consistency; for by this means it is better cooked and more digestible. It is an excellent species of food for children,