VEGETAHIAN COOKERY. 140 nearly a quarter of a pint; cold water three quarters of a pint; salt half a tea-spoonful; whites of eggs two, beaten to a froth. Cut the butter in small pieces, pour upon it, the hot water, and when it is dissolved add the cold water, taking care that the whole be about the temperature of new milk; mix it by degrees with the flour and salt, and just before it is used stir in the beaten whites of eggs. Feangipane. 199. Flour two ounces; eggs three or four. Moisten the flour with a little milk; heat the two together in a saucepan; add the eggs and stir the whole till cool enough to be made up with the hand. Or, steam some potatoes, beat them in a mortar, put them in a basin, and add some eggs and a little butter, salt, rasped citron, some bitter macaroons, and sugar or not, according to taste. Or, flour four table-spoonfuls ; eggs four. Mix them well together, dilute with a quart of new milk, in which some white sugar has been dissolved, add six macaroons finely powdered, and a gill of orange-flower water. Place the mixture over the fire, and as it becomes thick stir it well; then pour it over pulped apples or other fruit in a dish, and bake in a gentle oven tor half an hour. BoiLEB Meal, Floite, etc. 200. Various names have been given to meal or flour boiled in water or milk, according to the substance employed, and its relative proportion to the fluid, as—Pudding, Burgout, Porridge, and Gruel. "Wheat coarsely ground and boiled during three or four hours with a succession of water and a little salt, is an excellent and pleasant remedy for constipation. " It eifects quite a revolution in the economy of health, when taken in sufiicient quantity (twelve ounces), either as a part or whole of the breakfast, or instead of pudding and vegetables at dinner. "When the stomach will bear sweet substances, honey, molasses, etc., may be added with advan- tage. A moderate degree of fluidity, i.e., less than that of boiled rice or hominy, increases the laxative power."