116 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. are of a pale straw colour. Remove them from the fire, and as soon as they are cold, serve them immediately, piled upon a napkin. When well managed at a very gentle heat, they will retain their crispness for several hours, and it may be renewed by heating them again. Yahieties in Beead making. 131. In making bread, wheat meal may be mixed with the flour or meal of other grains; as of barley, oats, rye, rice ; with fruit, as apples, raisins, etc.; or with farinaceous roots and tubers, as potatoes, carrots, parsneps, beet, turnips, etc. The meal of other grains is generally added in the proportion of one-third to two-thirds of wheat meal; or one-sixth of boiled rice to five- sixths of wheat meal or flour. Perhaps a better proportion is a pound of rice to a stone of meal. Boil the rice till soft, but not to a pulp ; mix it when reduced to the proper temperature with the meal, and make up the bread as usual. This method keeps the bread rather moist. Cakes and pastry generally may be rendered less tenacious, and a degree of shortness or brittleness may be communicated to them by adding starch or sugar, or the Cour of such grains, roots, etc., as abound in starch (34). Starch, arrowroot, rice-flour, farina of potatoes, and other amylaceous substances, when made into a jelly with hot water, and added to the flour and yeast instead of water, are partially converted into grape sugar by the action of the diastase of the yeast (5 and 6) and by the heat of the oven, thus producing a sweet wholesome bread. Salep also is employed for the same purpose; one ounce of salep dissolved in a quart of water being suflacient for two pounds of flour. The following mixtures may be tried:— Two pounds of wheat meal; one pound of rye meal. One pound of wheat meal; one pound of oatmeal; half a pound of potatoes. Two pounds of wheat meal; one pound of maize meal. One and a half pound of wheat meal; half pound of rice. One pound of rye meal; quarter pound of rice. One pound and a half wheat or rye meal; half pound of pea or bean meal.