145 FARINACEA IN MOULDS, ETC. well set, then turn them out of tlie moulds upon porcelain or glass dishes. 210. 1. Any of the above articles may be creed in milk and sweetened or flavoured according to taste, by previously boiling the sugar, cinnamon, etc., in the milk (55). Four ounces of grain will require about a pint or more of milk. The quicker rice or other white grain is creed, the better will be the colour. Tous-les-mois, arrowroot, ground rice, or three parts ground rice, one part arrowroot, etc., should be previously mixed with a little cold water, then poured to the boiling fluid and boiled about five minutes. These will require more fluid than the whole grain. Thus prepared they have been called blanc-mange; frequently made with milk, isinglass, etc. See 394. 211. 2. The same products may be combined with the juice of fruits and turned into moulds. Remove all discoloured parts, and when necessary, steep the grains in water and dry them with a soft cloth; then simmer four ounces of the grain over a gentle fire in a pint of prepared juice of apples, rhubarb, gooseberries, white currants and strawberries, red currants and raspberries, cranberries, or other fruit, (99); stir the whole frequently before it begins to boil, to prevent it forming into lumps. As soon as the grain is rather tender, add eight ounces of pounded sugar and a dessert-spoonful of lemon juice; when ready, pour it into moulds as above. Arrowroot, etc., should be mixed with a little cold water as above, and then added to the boiling juice previously sweetened, etc. 212. 3. Pour three pints of boiling water upon half a peck of raspberries and red currants mixed; let them stand all night; then strain clf one quart, leaving the skin and seeds at the bottom. Simmer four ounces of sago or Scotch barley, rice, etc , in the juice, in an earthen glazed pan, till the whole thickens, but do not allow it to boil quickly. Add eight to ten ounces of sugar, etc., and proceed as above. Barley and other grains should be quite tender before they are put in the moulds. In winter, currant jelly may be dissolved and used instead of the raspberry and currant juice; also raspberry vinegar, preserved plum-juice, etc. 213. 4. Fill a basin or mould with alternate layers of creed 10