VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 6 THE CHEMICAL ELEMENTS OF FOOD. 8. There are about nineteen chemical elements found in organ ized bodies used as food; the principal are carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, phosphorus, sulphur, iron, chlorine, sodium, calcium, magnesium, and potassium. A very brief description of these elements is all that is necessary. Carbon. — This is an essential constituent of all organized bodies, and forms from 30 to 50 per cent, of most substances used as food, and nearly 80 per cent of oil, butter, and animal fat, when these substances have been deprived of the water they contain. An adult, taking moderate exercise, is said to require thirteen ounces of carbon daily in his food, but when little or no exercise is taken, about nine ounces is found sufficient. Much however, depends upon the temperature of the atmosphere; a larger supply of carbon and hydrogen being required in cold weather for the production of animal heat. The carbon of the food combines with the oxygen of the atmosphere received by the lungs, forming carbonic acid, which is exhaled from the lungs, and sustaining animal heat. Hydrogen.— This gas is also an essential element both of animal and vegetable structures. It abounds in alcohol, oil, malic acid, and the azotized principles, alcohol containing the most. Its combination with oxygen in the animal economy produces water, and at the same time heat is given off. Oxygen.—This gas is a necessary ingredient of food. It is in excess of hydrogen in the pectine of fruit, and in citric and tartaric acids. Fats contain . 120 equivalents of carbon to 10 equivalents of oxygen. Azotized principles 120 ,, .> ^6 „ Starch . • 120 ., 100 , „ Gum and Cane Sugar 120 ,, HO „ Grape Sugar . 1^0 „ » „ Those foods which contain a small proportion of oxygen consume, during the changes they undergo in the animal system, a o-reater amount of atmospheric oxygen than those which possess a lar-er quantity of this element; hence more atmospheric oxygen is required under an animal diet than under a vegetable diet.