11 ALIMENTAKY PRINCIPLES. Cane-Sugar.—Thii is obtained from the sugar-cane, beet-root, the maple-tree, and some other plants. It crystallizes with great facility, either in small grains by the rapid cooling of a strong syrup, or in large distinct crystals by a slower process, as m sugar- candy. It dissolves in one-third its weight of cold water, and to any extent in hot water. A solution saturated in the cold has a viscous consistence, and is called syrup. A solution saturated at 230° forms on cooling a mass composed of small cohering crystals. If kept long at a temperature near the boiling point, the syrup loses the power of crystallizing. Syrup boils at 221°. Cane-sugar melts between 302° and 356° into a viscid, colour- less liquid? which on cooling forms a transparent, amorphous, mass called barley-sugar. At about 420° sugar is converted into a brown, tasteless mass called caramel. Tartaric, oxalic, citric, malic, kinic, dilute sulphuric, and acetic acids, convert cane-sugar into grape-sugar, which unites with the acids, and forms a compound no longer crystallizable. Heat facilitates the change into grape-sugar, and the addition of alka- lies cannot remove the acid nor restore to the sugar the power of crystallizing. When boiled with alkalies, cane-sugar is first changed into grape-sugar, and then into formic acid, and two new acids, the glucic acid and the melassic acid. Sugar is an antiseptic, that is, it prevents the decomposition or putrefaction of organic substances. A much smaller quantity of it than of salt is required to accomplish this purpose. It acts by excluding the air, or by combining with the oxygen of the air, or by absorbing moisture, or in one or more of these ways. In some instances, perhaps, its efficacy may be of another kind, as when it promotes the solidification of vegetable jelly. The common brown sugar contains many impurities, as vegetable fibre, the sporules of the sugar fungus, the acarus sacchari or sugar mite, in great abundance, etc. Therefore, when a pure sugar is required, the crystallized kinds should be preferred. Grape-Sugar^ called also starch-sugar, and glucose, contains less carbon than cane-sugar, it is also less soluble, and not so sweet. Grape-sugar may be extracted from dried grapes or