ARTICLE? USED IN VEGETARIAN DIET. 39 the resulting mucilage is very thick. It is very nutritive and easily digested; it is made into jellies, pottage paste, etc., with the addidon of sugar and aromatics. It is said to contain the greatest quantity of nutriment in the least possihle hulk 33 A simple enumeration of a few of the CupuliferaB, Poly- ..onacea, and oily seeds, will he sufficient, namely, chestiiuts buck- wheat, hazel-nuts, walnuts, almonds, cocoa-nuts, Brazil-nuts, Cashew-nuts, Pistacliio-nuts, Suwnrrow, etc. Some of the oily seeds, as the almond, walnut, hazel-nut, cocoa- nut, etc., need no cooking, but neatly all the other seeds require the aid of heat to render them palatable and digestible. (3.) Hoots, Titbeiis, and Subtekeaneous Stems. 39. The principal roots, etc., used as human food in this country, are turnips, carrots, parsncps, beet, potatoes, Jerusalem artichoKes, scorzonera, rampions, radishes, and skirret. Turnips.—These are of various sorts, all containing albumen and sugar. The French navet is a variety, and has more the shape of a carrot. It has a very fine flavour, and two or three of them are said to give as much flavour to soups as a dozen common turnips. The peculiar flavour resides in the rind, which should not be cut off, but only scraped. Carrots—Thej contain crystallizable and uncrystallizable sugar, a little starch, extractive, gluten, albumen, etc. Tbey contain about U per cent, of nutritive matter. The outer or red part is the most pulpy and sweetest, the yellow or central part is more stringy. The greater the proportion of the external part, the more valuable the carrot. Farsneps.—S\rQ\\a.r in quality to carrots. Hed Beet.—This root contains a large portion of crystallizable sugar, albumen, fibrine, extractive, fixed oil, etc. "When thoroughly boiled, or baked in an oven, it is sweet, agreeable, tolerably digestible, and contains about 15 per cent, of nutritive matter, It is used as a garnish, a pickle, and a salad. Potatoes.—^e\t to the cerealia these are the most important and valuable of the esculent vegetables, and were introduced from America by Sir Walter Raleigh in the year 1-584, but their