21 ALIMENTARY PIUNCIPLES. to use it in the form of oil, butter, cream, etc., along with the ordinary food. The vegetable products which abound in oil are oatmeal, maize, sweet almonds, nuts, olives, cocoa, etc. Cream, cheese, and yolks of eggs, are also rich in this principle. A judicious use of oleaginous aliments may be of great service in certain chronic affections, in incipient consumption, and in cases where it is desirable to diminish arterial action; but, when used in excess, they have a relaxing effect on the system, though they seem to nourish and fatten. The apparently good effects of cod-liver oil in phthisis, etc., is probably owing to its general character as an oil, rather than to the prssence of iodine or any other peculiar principle. Dr. Carpenter says, " There is strong and increasing reason to believe that a deficiency of oleaginous matter, in a state fit for appropriation by the nutritive processes, is a fertile source of diseased action, especially of that of a tuberculous character; and that the habitual use of it in larger proportion would operate favourably in the prevention of such maladies as the employment of cod-liver oil unquestionably does in their cure. A most remarkable example of this is presented by the population of Iceland, which, notwithstanding the concurrence of every one of the circumstances usually considered favourable to the scrofulous diathesis, enjoys a most remarkable immunity from it, without any other assignable cause than the peculiarly oleaginous character of the diet usually employed." * (2.) The Azotized Class. 12. This class embraces three alimentary principles, called Albumen, Fibrine, and Caseiue They all contain nitrogen or azote, combined with carbon, oxygen, hydrogen, and small portions of sulphur and phosphorus. Recent experiments have proved that animal albumen is identical with vegetable albumen, animal fibrine with vegetable fibrine, and animal caseiue with vegetable legumine, derived from peas, beans, and other leguminous seeds. •See Carpkntkr's Human Physiology, 4tli ed.p. 333, and tlie MedicO' Chirurgical Review, vol. v, p. 456.