176 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. (a.) Fruit covered or surrounded -with creed grain, paste, bread, batter, etc. (b.) Alternate layers of fruit, creed grain, paste, bread, or batter, etc. (c.) Fruit, creed grain, bread crumbs, etc., intimately mixed. As a general rule all fruit puddings which are intended for sub- stantial support, or as a diet rather than an accompaniment to other food, should consist of about equal weights of fruit and farinacea, -whether they are made of fi-uit and grain, fruit and paste, or fruit and bread. The weight of sugar should be propor- tionate to the quantity and condition of the fruit, or the taste of those for whom the puddings are provided. The quantity of eggs, cream, butter, and flavouring should depend upon such circum- stances as health, occupation, the digestive powers, and individual partialities, but it is desirable to guard against compounds which are either too rich, too concentrated, or which contain too great a variety of articles; for plain food, when relished, is the most wholesome; and a natural appetite will require few condiments to excite it. Tastes are so different that some of the puddings made after the following receipts may be relished by one person and perhaps disliked by another; it is desirable, therefore, to vary the number and quantity of the ingredients till the most approved compound has been ascertained, regard being had to the general instructions here given. It is usual in works on Cookery to give a distinct appellation to each pudding, as Prince Albert's pudding, Mont- morency pudding, etc. ; they are here generally distinguished by numbers and letters only. Fruit and Grain Pudding's. 287. Put some fruit and a suflicient quantity of sugar in a tart-pan or pie-dish, cover it with creed rice (106), to which a little sugar and butter have been added; also cinnamon or other condiments or flavouring when preferred (56). Bake the pudding ten minutes or longer according to its size. Apples, rhubarb, gooseberries, and other firm fruit should be previously stewed. 288. Line a basin or mould with creed rice, put in the fruit, then cover it with more rice and bake as above.