FEUIT. 63 (a.) Put the fruit iu a stone-jar, with as much sugar as may be thought requisite, and cold water sufficient to cover the fruit. Cover the jar, and place it on a hot hearth, or in a moderately heated oven, or in a saucepan of water over the fire till the fruit is quite tender; or the fruit, sugar, and water may be simmered gently in a stew-pan. A quarter of a pint of water, and five or six ounces of sugar, will generally be sufficient for a pound or pint of fruit; the ; compote, however, will be richer in proportion as less water is used. The sugar should be scattered amongst the fruit, I but the principal part of it should be placed near the top. Bruised lump sugar should be used for a clear, pale syrup, or I when the fruit is intended for dessert; brown sugar when for I common use, or when a dark syrup is desired. After the above method may be stewed any of the hardy fruits, as plums, apples, pears, gooseberries, rhubarb, etc, for general : use. Plums, vegetable-marrow, gooseberries, currants, and rhubarb, require only a very little water to prevent the fruit adhering to the bottom of the vessel. Vegetable-marrow should be peeled, the seeds and fibres removed, and then cut in pieces; gooseberries and currants should be picked clean ; rhubarb peeled, and cut into short lengths, but if it be tender and of good quality, it is better I not peeled. Currants and raspberries may be used together as follows:—Currants one pint; raspberries or strawberries half a pint; sugar four ounces. Apples and pears should be previously pared,* cored, and put . into the jar, either whole, divided, or sliced; the peels and cores may be boiled, and the water strained from them, and then used for stewing the fruit. " Norfolk biffins," and other dried apples, should be soaked 1 in cold water for five or six hours before they are put into the jar. A dozen apples will require about a pint of water, and eight ounces of sugar. They should simmer gently for three or four hours, or until they are soft. Season with a few cloves, or cinna- • Apples and pears should be pared and cut with a silver knife, or immediately after being cut they should be thrown into cold water, to prevent them changing colour.