PUDDINGS. 181 strewing the six ounces of bread crumbs in the dish, stir two ounces only to the fruit, sugar, etc. ; butter a dish and line it with paste, leaving a small hole in the centre that the juice may escape through it, and thus add a rich flavour to the paste. The pudding may be turned out of the dish and served either hot or cold, with or without custard or sugar over it. This pudding may also be boiled in a cloth. 305. Stew a pound and a half of ripe red gooseberries in a jar put in the oven, or in a saucepan of water, until they will pulp ; take a pint of the juice after being passed through a coarse sieve; add three eggs well beaten, an ounce and a half of butter, some sugar and crumbs of bread, or Naples biscuits; mix the whole well and bake as above. 306. Apples grated, or green gooseberries stewed and pulped through a coarse sieve, four ounces; bread crumbs three ounces; sugar two ounces; one egg; butter two ounces; milk two table-spoonfuls ; a little juice and grated peel of lemon. Mix the ingredients well together, pour the mixture into a buttered mould or basin, and boil the pudding in a steamer for an hour nearly; or bake it in an oven. When ready, pour over it a little arrowroot sauce with or without sherry wine. This pudding is palatable and nutritious, and may be varied according to taste by altering the proportions of bread crumbs, eggs, etc. 307. Apples chopped small, eight ounces; bread crumbs eight ounces; currants eight ounces; sugar six ounces; eggs five, well beaten. Or, apples eight ounces; bread crumbs four to eight ounces; currants and raisins two ounces each ; sugar four to six ounces; eggs four or five ; rind of a lemon grated, or pared quite thin and chopped small. Peel, core, and chop the apples small; add the bread crumbs, currants, raisins, sugar, and lemon peel; then the eggs well beaten. Boil the pudding three hours in a buttered mould or basin or cloth, and serve with sweet sauce, or bake it at a moderate heat. This has been called Eve's Pudding. Other fruit may be substituted for the apples ; and frpm four to six ounces of butter may be added. 308. Spread stewed fruit, jams, or chopped raisins, etc..