192 VEGETARIAN COOK.ERT. The milk may be flavoured -with bay leaves, or lemon rind, etc. (b.) Bread crumbs four ounces; sugar two to four ounces; butter two to four ounces ; eggs two to four; cream or milk one- eighth to half a pint; currants and raisins four ounces each, picked, stoned and cleaned. Soak the bread crumbs, beat and strain the eggs, to which add the milk gradually, then mix and beat all well together, and bake or steam the pudding in a dish, or in cups three parts full; or steam or boil it in a cloth, or in a mould with a cloth over it, from two to four hours, according to the size. The mould may be buttered and stuck round with raisins. The mixture may also be fried. Two ounces of flour or of ground rice or sago may be substituted for two ounces of the bread crumbs ; savoy biscuit or other light cake may supply the place of bread. The currants and raisins may be omitted, and the rind and juice of a quarter of a lemon added; but for a plum pudding they should be retained; some add cinnamon, mace, nutmeg, or other seasoning. A table- spoonful of treacle will give the pudding a rich brown colour. Serve with custard, cream sauce, or sweet sauce. 349. Bread crumbs four ounces; sago two ounces; milk one pint; sugar two ounces; eggs two ; lemon rind finely minced, and a little of the juice. Boil half the milk and pour it over the bread crumbs; wash the sago in two waters; mix it with the remainder of the milk cold; beat the eggs, then mix the whole and beat it; butter ^ mould and bake twenty minutes, or steam it one hour. Pour tapioca or arrowroot sauce over it and serve. Semolina Pudding. 350. Semolina four ounces; milk one pint and a half; sugar three ounces; butter two ounces; salt a little; yolks of eggs four; whites three, well beaten. Some add the thin rind of half a lemon infused in the milk, and two or three bitter almonds. Mix (117 ff.) "When the mixture is nearly cold, pour it gently into a buttered dish or mould prepared as for gateau de riz (153), and bake from three quarters of an hour to an hour or more in a very gentle oven, Mannacroup and hominy may be prepared in the same way. Hominy should be previously steeped.