25 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. of at least two different substances. It is the curd or solid part of milk when separated from the whey by means of rennet or an acid. Cheese made from skimmed milk, and well pressed, is nearly pure caseine; an identical substance, formerly called legumine, is found in the seeds of leguminous plants, as peas, beans, and lentils; it occurs also along with albumen, in the oily seeds, such as almonds and nuts. It exists, perhaps, in grape juice, and in other vegetable jaiccs which yield very little vegetable albumen on being heated. When the meal of peas, beans, lentils, or oats is soaked in cold water, and the mass strained through a sieve, there passes through a solution of caseine in which starch is suspended. When the starch has settled, the liquid is a solution of caseine, which, like milk, is always turbid from suspended fat. The fat will rise to the surface partly from the gradual action of the air on the dissolved caseine, lactic acid being slowly formed, which causes a gradual separation. This solution has all the characters of skimmed milk. Caseine may also be obtained from the sap of plants, and from the juice of the potato, turnip, and other roots, by first coagulating the albumen by hea*-, and then adding an acid. When sweet almonds are reduced to a pulpy mass, mixed and rubbed down with frgm four to six times their weight of water, they yield a fluid, exhibiting, in its external appearance and properties, the greatest analogy to very rich cow's milk. The vegetable caseine of the almond, like animal caseine, contains sulphur, but it contains a larger proportion of nitrogen than the latter substance. The circumstance that animal caseine does not produce the same effect as a ferment in all cases, is, perhaps, to be ascribed to its inferior amount of nitrogen. If to a solution of grape-sugar (which is the same in composi- tion as starch-sugar and the solid part of honey), milk of almonds, or pounded almonds freed by means of cold pressure from their mixed or fatty oil, be added, and the mixture be kept in a warm place, it will soon run inio a lively vinous ferment, and a brandy of a peculiar but highly agreeable flavour may be obtained by distillation from the fermented fluid.—Liebig. Caseine is soluble in water, like albumen, when a small quantity