183 PUDDINGS. seasoning when preferred. Bake one hour in a moderately heated oven, and serve with pounded sugar sprinkled over, 316. Nearly fill a well buttered pie-dish, basin, or mould with fruit; cover it with a light batter and bake. Or, put in first a layer of batter and place it in the oven till the batter is suffi- ciently set; then add a layer of fruit, etc., finishing with a layer of batter. The sugar necessary should be added after baking; if added sooner it will render the pudding heavy. 317. Damsons, currants, gooseberries, rhubarb, or cut apples, etc., eight ounces; flour eight ounces; milk one pint; yolks of eggs four ; whites two ; baking powder half a tea-spoonful; salt one tea-spoonful. Rub the baking powder till smooth and mix it well with the flour ; add the salt, and as much milk as will make a stiff batter ; beat it till quite smooth, then add the eggs well beaten and the remainder of the milk. Put the fruit in a buttered dish; pour the batter over it, or stir the fruit into the batter and bake at a moderate heat; or boil it in a cloth an hour and a half, or in a mould fifteen minutes longer. Serve the pudding with sugar, melted butter, and lemon juice. 318. Fill a mould or basin that will hold a pint and a half, with fruit; then pour in a batter made with four table-spoonfuls of flour; two or three eggs; and half a pint of milk. Tie a buttered or floured cloth over, and boil the pudding an hour and a quarter. Apples pared, cored, halved, and mixed with a good batter, make an excellent pudding for baking ; also red currants, cherries, and plums of various sorts. 319. Lay in a rather deep pie-dish some thin slices of French roll, or light bread, spread with butter and covered with a thick layer of mince-meat (417 to 419); place a second layer lightly upon these, covered also with mince-meat;, then pour in gently .a custard made with three well beaten eggs; three quarters of a pint of new milk, or thin cream; a very small portion of salt, and two ounces of sugar. Let the pudding stand to soak for an hour, then bake it gently for nearly an hour, or until it is quite firm in the centre. 320. Apples grated eight ounces; sugar eight ounces; butter six ounces; eggs six; rind and juice of a lemon. Rub the \