VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 232 491. Additions to broths in order to form Clear Soups : — {a.) One large turnip ; the red part of a large carrot; onions three ounces ; celer}- one stick. (i.) Carrots, turnips, or turnip radishes; onions three ; celery one. (c.) Carrots and turnips six ounces; onions, leeks, and celerj- three ounces. Proceed according to 490, 2, using butter two ounces; sugar one tea-spoonful; broth three pints. A few green peas, small pieces of broccoli, cauliflower, or Brussels sprouts, previously boiled, may be added. A little tarragon and chervil, or the vinegars flavoured with these herbs, are a pleasant addition to this and other soups. (d.) One carrot; one turnip; eighteen button onions. (e.) Turnips or carrots or Jerusalem artichokes eight ounces. Artichokes will require only half as much boiling as either of the others. (/.) Macaroni washed, steeped, cut in thin pieces, and partially cooked; or broken iuto the broth, four ounces to three pints. Boil till tender. Vermicelli requires only half the time boiling which is necessary for macaroni. (y.) Sago half an ounce; tapioca one ounce; boiled half an hour in two pints of water. Add this stock to broth (488 b.) simmer and skim well; strain the soup two or three times through book muslin, or a fine sieve; after the second straining add two ounces of butter, two table-spoonfuls of ketchup, and one of lemon pickle or lemon juice, or pickled mushrooms; a little cayenne and salt, and one table-spoonful of browning ; skim and simmer till clear. The addition of forcemeat balls, or egg balls, etc. will render it an excellent substitute for mock-turtlesoup. Herbs tied in a muslin bag may be boiled in the soup when preferred. (A.) Green peas boiled till rather tender and added to clear broth. (».) Mash well two ounces of rice, and boil it in three 'pints of broth till tender. (y.) Drop very lightly and by degrees six ounces of semolina, or vermicelli, into three quarts of boiling soup, which should be stirred all the time. Skim and simmer ten or fifteen minutes.