TO SERVE MASHED TUBEKS, ETC. 158 7. To a pound of the mashed roots add the yolks and whites of four eccrs well whisked; mould them into small lumps, drop them into aTm'all pan of boiling oil or butter ; fry them five minutes over a moderate fire, and drain them well. 8. To the mashed roots add minced parsley, a small quantity ot green onions or eschalot?, or boiled onions passed through a sieve; add also a little cayenne or white pepper, and sufficient yolks of eggs to bind the mixture; roll it into balls, or into three or four-inch lengths, and fry in butter or oil over a moderate fire; or dress it as potatoes scalloped. Potatoes thus dressed and fried are called rissoles (472). Potato Balls. 235. Boil some potatoes in their skins; when cold, peel and grate them. Beat two ounces of butter to a cream, and add the yolks of two eggs well beaten, a little salt, and as much of the grated potato as will make a stiff paste; add also a little well beaten white of egg. Rub the palm of the hand with a little flour, and roll the paste into small balls, and boil them. These are very good in white soup, or they may be eaten with white sauce. 236. Or, potatoes half boiled, pared, and grated; wheat flour, or pea meal about one-sixteenth the weight of the potatoes, salt, pepper, and sweet herbs. Mix the whole to a proper con- sistency with boiling water; form the mass into dumplings of the size of a large apple ; roll them in flour to prevent the water pene- trating them ; put them in boiling water and boil them till they rise to the surface, when they will be sufficiently done. They may also be boiled in pudding cloths. 237. Or, mash very smooth some well boiled potatoes with a little cream, or butter and milk, and a little salt; then form them into balls or in the shape of apples, pears, or other fruit; warm them through, and brown them slightly on one side in a Dutch oven. A Substitute for Potatoes. 238. Steam or boil thoroughly one pound of turnips; mash them well over the fire, and at the same time sprinkle in about two ounces of oatmeal, or pease meal, very slowly; when of a