TO STEW PEAS, ETC, ^^"^ ready, add two or three table-spoonfuls of vinegar. * A few slices of red beet will improve the colour of red cabbage. Or shred and wash a red cabbage; peel its weight of apples slice and core them ; put these and the cabbage in a stew-pan with a little butter and a very little water ; stew the whole by the side of the fire till tender; season with pepper and salt, some add a tew slices of onion. Or boil a cabbage, then di-aiu and squeeze all the water from'it; add a little butter, pepper, and salt, and press the whole into a mould; bake it an hour, turn it out, and serve. Potatoes cooked and bruised may be mixed with the cabbage before it is put in the mould. To Stew Peas, Windsor Beans, ok French Beans. 251. Boil a quart of peas, or French beans, etc., till tender, then drain the water from them. Dissolve one or two ounces of butter in a stew-pan, and when it boils stir in a dessert-spoonful of flour, shake it over the fire for three or four minutes, but do not permit it to become coloured ; then add gradually a cup of cream and a little sugar. When the sauce boils, put in the peas or beans, shake them in it till they are very hot, and serve them quickly. As they are taken from the fire the beaten yolks of two eggs and a little lemon juice may be stirred in, or a table-spoonful of minced parsley and sweet herbs. Instead of these, an onion cut in four and a little mint may be stewed with the peas and after- wards removed. Another Method. 252. Put a quart of peas in plenty of cold water, with rather more than an ounce of butter ; handle the peas with the butter till the whole of it adheres to them ; remove them from the water and drain them in a colander, then stew them with a little parsley and green onions. "When they have recovered their green colour, • Some prefer adding a little more water, about half a pint for each cabbage, they then cover the pan closely, and stew the cabbage for three hours. Should it become too dry, and be in danger of burning, add a little more boiling water. When done, press and drain it through a colander.