13 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. |)ieHt consumption, and in many nervous diseases. In some dyspeptic individuals, it is apt to give rise to flatulency and pre- ternatural acidity of the stomach; but it is readily digested by the healthy stomach, and exercises on the organs no irritating or debili- tating influence. This is probably the reason why persons who have fed on saccharine aliments have lived to a great age, and enjoyed good health to a late period of life. " The vigour which this alimentary principle imparts to all the organs, insures the perfec- tion of the functions of life, and at the same time renders exis- tence sweet and tranquil. After each repast, the body does not experience the trouble, intestine agitation, and febrile excitement which spiced meats, wine, cofifee, etc., always promote." * During the sugar season of the "West India Islands " every negro on the plantations, and every animal, even the dogs, grow fat." t " The injurious efi'ects which have been ascribed to sugar are more imaginary than real, for some individuals have consumed large quantities of it for a long series of years, without sufi'ering any ill consequences. AVe are told that Henry, Duke of Beau- fort, who died about 1702, ate nearly a pound of sugar daily for forty years. He died of fever in the seventieth year of his age; he was never troubled with a cough, his teeth were firm, and all his viscera were found, after death, quite sound.'' " The fondness of children for saccharine substances may be regarded as a natural instinct; since nature, by placing it in milk, evidently intended it to form a part of their nourishment during the first period of their existence. Instead, therefore, of repressing this appetite for sugar, it ought rather to be gratified in moderation. The popular notion of its having a tendency to injure the teeth is totally unfounded." J " I have had little patients," observes Dr. Chambers, afl"ec- ted with strumous derangement of digestion, increase iu weight to the extent of from two and a-half to four pounds in the first week after commencing the use of an additional four ounces of * Barbikre in Dictiomtnire des Sciet)ces Medicah.i. t Dr. Wright, Medical Plants of Jamaica, i Dr. Pereira's Treatise on Food and Diet, p. 114.