VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 42 (4.) Bulbous Roots, or Buds and Young Shoots. 41. Onions, Leeks, Garlic, Shallots, Chives, and Rocamboles. —All these owe their peculiar odour and flavour, as well as their pungent and stimulating qualities, to an acrid volatile oil "which contains sulphur. This oil hecomes absorbed, quickens the circulation, and occasions thirst. If the volatile oil be dissipated by boiling, these bulbs, or rather buds, no longer possess any acrid or stimulating qualities. They then form mild mucila- ginous, saccharine, digestible aliments, whereas in the raw state, that is, with the oil, they are pungent, acrid, stimulating, and difficult to digest. When eaten in this state they should be minutely divided and thoroughly masticated, otherwise, as was observed of fleshy fruit (19), the saliva and other secretions cannot act upon them readily, and much inconvenience is fre- quently experienced. Professor Johnston says, the onion is remarkably nutritious, containing from 2-5 to 30 per cent, of gluten. Socrates in Xenophon attributes to the onion the virtue of augmenting the force and courage of warrioi's. Garlic is composed of several oblong subordinate bulbs, which have been named cloves. Leeks are less acrimonious than onions or garlic. Shallots, Chives, and Rocamboles possess similar properties to those above mentioned. Asparagus.—Thxs as a green vegetable is generally much relished, and is considered nutritive and digestible. (5.) Leaves, Lbae-stalks, and Beacts. 43. The principal esculents to be enumerated under this head are—1st, brassicaceous plants {cabbages) in great variety, including chou de Milan, couve Tronchuda, Brussels sprouts, borecole or kale, broccoli, cauliflower. Savoy, etc.; sea kale, lettuce, endive, celery, stalks of the silver beet, artichokes, spinach, and numerous pot herbs, as mustard, garden cress, water cress, parsley, mint, thyme, marjoram, sage, rue, savory, tarragon, tansy, basil, borage, chervil, clary, fennel, horse-radish, alisander,