184 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. lemon rind on the sugar; mix the whole well, and hake the pudding quickly. Eat it while warm, as pudding, or when cold, as cheese-cake. 321. Peel and cut some apples as for a tart; fill a dish three parts full; shake powdered sugar over the apples; cover them with apricot jam, then with hutter. Mix three table-spoonfuls of arrowroot with a pint of new milk, a little cream, sugar, and butter; stir it over the fire till it boils; if too thick, add a little more milk; it should be just thick enough to run smoothly; pour it over the apples and let the whole stand till quite cold; then bake at a moderate heat for an hour and a half; or half this time for a small pudding. 322. Vegetable marrows one or two pared and sliced very thin ; add a little cream, and put them into the oven till softened; remove them, and when cold add from two to four well beaten rsrgs, add also some new milk, sugar, nutmeg, and a little butter. Bake twenty minutes. Two table-spoonfuls of fine bread crumbs may be added. 323. Vegetable marrow or cucumber, one middle sized one; eggs three; bread crumbs one table-spoonful, parsley and leeks mixed, a quarter of an ounce. Half boil the marrow ; peel and cut it in pieces, removing the seeds and pulp; put it in a flat dish with a little butter melted, season with pepper and salt, and bake about twenty minutes, at a tolerable heat. Beat the eggs well, add the bread crumbs, parsley, and leeks; pour them over the marrow, let it remain in the oven till well browned, and serve with brown sauce. 324. Vegetable jnarrow one middle sized one ; meal or flour three ounces; cold boiled rice three ounces; sugar four ounces; grated peel of half a lemon ; a few currants, and sufficient water to make the whole ipto a batter. Cook the marrow as above, then mix and bake one hour and a quarter slowly. 325. Rice half an ounce; milk half a pint; a little butter, sugar, cinnamon, and salt; one middle sized apple, peeled, cored, and sliced; one egg. Boil the rice in the milk till soft; stew the apple with a little sugar and butter, and a spoonful of water, till tender. Put the apple in a small tart dish; mix the egg with the rice, pour it over the apple, and bake ten minutes.