98 VEGETABIAN COOKERY. of cookery, and the dishes which can be prepared with it in this state, particularly if combined with fruit, eggs, milk, etc., are innumerable; nor is it an easy matter so to arrange this depart- ment as to give a clear and comprehensive view of the whole. Meal or ilour, mixed with a moderate portion of water, milk, butter, or eggs, forms paste or dough; a further addition of fluid forms batter and porridge ; and by a still further dilution, gruel is formed. The two former are variously employed in making bread, pies, puddings, etc., but before commencing with these divisions it will be better to introduce a few general directions for mixing the ingredients commonly used, as a reference to these modes of combining the articles will prevent much repetition hereafter. Methods ttstjallt iljiployed in Mixing Sundkt Solids AND Fluids. Floitr and Water or other Fluid. 115. {a.) Mix the flour and fluid intimately together and beat the whole well. ^Vhen salt and sugar are added, they may be mixed with the flour, or dissolved in the fluid. When butter is employed, it also may be dissolved in the fluid by means of a little ^^'^fb) When soda, and acid or sour milk, or buttermilk, are used' mix the soda thoroughly with the flour, stir the acid to the cold'fluid; then incorporate it well with the flour by means of a wooden spoon. When baking p .wder is employed mix it inti- matelv with the flour, stir in nearly half the fluid and the salt, and beat the whole quite smooth, then add the remaining fluid and es^s, and bake immediately. Surplus milk may be kept in a clean vessel till it becomes aoid, used as wanted, and fresh milk added from time to time; this wi 1 be found very useful for cakes and other pastry when bicarbona e of soda is employed. A pint of milk, two pounds of flour a smaU tea-spoonful ofsoda and four ounces of butter will be pretty nearly the proportions required. The vessel in which the milk is kept should be occasionally changed, , , • 7c) Make a hole in the middle of the flour, break m the leaven, add the water and stir in about half the meal cover it with the remainder of the meal, let it stand all night in a