182 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. between slices of bread in a mould, then pour over the whole warm milk mixed with well beaten eggs ; cover the mould with a cloth and boil the pudding twenty minutes. 309. Large apples four ; sago five ounces; sugar and lemon flavour according to taste. Prepare the apples as for apple-sauce ; boil the sago in a small quantity of water; add the apples, sugar, and flavour, and bake in a pie-dish. 310. Red currants and raspberries mixed, two pounds; sugar one pound. Mix the fruit and sugar, then fill a pudding dish -with alternate layers of fruit and slices of bread without crust, leaving a thick layer of fruit at the top. Bake the pudding nearly an hour. 311. Minced apples eight ounces; mashed potatoes four ounces; sugar four ounces; eggs four, beaten and strained; a little lemon peel or nutmeg. Bake thirty minutes. 312. Figs eight ounces; sugar four ounces; grated bread eight ounces; butter four ounces; eggs two ; candied lemon one ounce; seasoning to taste. Beat the eggs; cut the figs into small pieces and steep as at 285 ; mix all the ingredients together, and steam or boil the pudding one hour in a basin or mould. 313. Wheat meal and Indian meal two handfiils each; crumb of bread two ounces; apples four, chopped smnll; currants ■washed and picked four ounces; raisins stoned four ounces; sugar two ounces; candied lemon one ounce; the peel of a lemon and a little nutmeg grated. Mix all well together with a very small quantity of water; put the mixture in a basin, mould, or cloth tied close, and boil the pudding two or three hours. Fruit and Batter Puddings. 314. Pare and core six good baking apples; fill the cavity of each with sugar; place the apples in a buttered pie-dish, and pour over them a nice light batter and bake at a moderate heat. 315. Cut four or five apples in halves, remove the cores but not the skin. Beat two eggs and add them to a cupful of flour, mixed smooth with a pint of milk; pour the batter into a well buttered dish or tin; lay the apples in it rind uppermost, scatter a few pieces of butter over them and a little nutmeg or other