VEGETARIAN COOKERY, 22 (a.) Albumen. 13. The white of eggs is nearly pure albumen; the yolk also consists of albumen combined with a considerable amount of oil. Albumen also exists in the clarified juice of nutritious vegetables, such as cauliflowers, beet, carrots, and turnips. It is found in a solid form in almonds, nuts, and the cereal grains. Albumen is soluble in cold water, and a heat of 160"will coagulate it, after which it is no longer soluble in water. When in a concentrated state, as in the white of egg, or one part dry albumen dissolved in from five to nine parts of water, it may be coagulated by a heat between 140째 and 160째; it then becomes solid and opaque. "When diluted with more than 13 parts of water, as in vegetable juices, it requires a boiling heat to coagulate it, and it then falls in finely- divided flocks, or is only partially coagulated, and the liquid may be poured from one vessel to another. When diluted with from 1,000 to 2,000 parts of water, the solution becomes cloudy when heated. Albumen is coagulated also by alcohol, the gastric juice, and most acids. Acetic acid or vinegar does not coagulate it, but, on the contrary, dissolves it when coagulated. Its solubility is said to depend upon its containing a small portion of free soda, and a solution is effected by caustic, potash, or soda. When an excess of alkali, or when acetic or tartaric acid is present, it does not coagulate at a boiling heat. When the fluid in which albumen is dissolved is evaporated at a temperature not exceeding 126째, the albumen, or rather the albuminate of soda, may be dried without losing its solubility. It may then be exposed to a temperature of 212째 without undergoing any change, and may again be dissolved in water. When a higher temperature is employed, the albumen passes into an insoluble form. Coagulated albumen dries up into a yellowish, transparent horny mass, which in cold water swells up again to the opaque soft state of coagulated white of egg. TJncoagulated albumen soon putrifies, except it be dried; it keeps longer when coagulated ; hence boiled eggs keep longer than when in their natural state. When albumen, fibrine, or caseine is brought into contact with an alkali, however weak, ammonia is immediately disengaged. Albumen is difiacult of digestion when taken too freely, as