COOKING PKOCESSBS. 55 raise the temperature slowly, but just before boiling pour off the water and put the almonds in a basin, peel them and throw them into cold water, dry them with a soft cloth before they are used. If the water be too hot, it will turn them yellow. Before they are pounded they should bespread out and dried for a day or two ; they should also be sprinkled during the pounding with a tew drops of cold water, or white of egg, or lemon juice, to prevent them oiling. Reduce them in a mortar to a smooth paste. • COOKING PROCESSES. (1.) Soaking, Steeping, or Macerating. 58. This is the simplest, and, if we except crushing or grinding, was probably the first operation to which grain and Sther hard food was subjected at an early stage of society, for the purpose of preparing it for mastication and digestion. It is effected by adding cold water, milk, or other fluid to the sub- stances required to be softened, previously to their being boiled, or subjected to other culinary operations. Thus, bread, rice, etc., are soaked for puddings; peas, beans, etc., for soups; and linseed for the purpose of obtaining the mucilage. Bread soaked by pouring boiling fluid over it, to prepare it for puddings or fritters, is liable to render the preparation sad, in consequence of the starch in the bread becoming dissolved (6); a good soaking in cold fluid is therefore to be preferred. If the bread is not macerated, the ingredients should be well stirred till partially cooked, or they will not mix well; when mixed with eggs the mixture should either be stirred till the albumen sets, or the bread should be soaked to prevent separation. If rice or other light coloured grain be steeped six or seven hours in cold water previously to being cooked, the colour will be much improved. Both grain and meal mix more smoothly, and boil sooner after having been steeped. As cold water extracts some of the active principles of vegetable substances, care should bo taken not to soak them too long, or