68 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. it may be cut into dice and re-heated in good white sauce, or stewed tender in butter. Or, pour a cupful of white sauce over it, after it has been laid upon some sliced cheese in a well- buttered dish ; add another layer of sliced cheese, and strew bread crumbs over it, then put it in a moderate oven for about ten or fifteen minutes. Boiled marrow may also be mashed as turnips, or made into puddings, pies, etc., like other fruit. Moderate sized marrows will require boiling from twenty to thirty minutes ; large ones from forty-five to sixty minutes. A cucumber or marrow may also be baked thus; pare and cut it in halves as above; remove the seeds and fibres; rub it inside and out with a little salt, and let it drain for an hour. Fill up the halves with onions previously boiled and chopped with some sage ; add a little butter, pepper, and salt; then tie the two halves together and bake in a buttered dish, in a moderately heated oven. If not well-browned, dredge a little fiour over, brown it before the fire, and serve with brown sauce. Force meat may be sub- stituted for the onions and sage, and when sufficiently baked, throw over it peas, stewed with an onion and a sprig of mint, and thicken with a little butter and flour. The onion and mint should be removed after stewing. (e.) Peel a pumpkin, cucumber, or vegetable marrow; cut it into thin slices, removing the seeds; set it, with some dried currants and sugar, in a saucepan over the fire ; little or no water is required. Stew it about three hours or till quite tender, and put it in a crust as for mince pies; or cover a shallow dish with a thin crust and spread the mashed fruit and currants upon it; cover it with a crust and bake. Candied lemon or orange peel may be added. (/.) Stew the pumpkin, cucumber or marrow with a little sugar and a few cut apples; add a little lemon juice and rind with tvo or three cloves, and bake as above. TO PRESERVE FRUIT FOR FUTURE USE. Introductory Observations. 71. All fruits and vegetables intended for preservation should be free from bruise and blemish, as injured fruits soon