262 VEGETARIAN COOKEEY. Climate, disease, unhealthy employments, and many other circum- stances may render it desirable and perhaps necessary to resort to measures which in other conditions we should consider quite un- natural. An exclusively fruit and farinaceous diet may, therefore, be considered as one to which we should approximate, and onlv strictly adopt when physical conditions and careful experience will justify us. Several Vegetarians have assured the author that they have suf- fered neither in health nor strength, but rather increased both, by a complete abstinence, from milk, butter and eggs; as a general rule, however, it is safer to admit them till we have more light on the subject. It has been frequently asserted that a much larger quantity of Vegetarian food than of a mixed diet of flesh and vegetables is required to maintain health and vigour; the author's own experi- ence for more than twenty-four years, and the testimony of other Vegetarians, have convinced him that this is an error, and chemistry and physiology, when fairly interrogated, afford ample proof that a well arranged Vegetarian diet is both more nutritive and more wholesome than an animal or mixed diet. The brief experience of a few days may appear to negative this conclusion; because the change from a stimulating diet to one that is less so is frequently attended by a depression of the nervous system, and the temporary sensation of weakness or lassitude is apt to be mistaken for permanent loss of muscular power; a longer trial would expose the fallacy. When Vegetarian habits have been prudently established, three meals a day are amply sufficient for all ordinary constitutions and employments, and these, in compliance with general custom in this country, are denominated Breakfast, Dinner, and Tea, or early Supper. Beeaktast. 555. This repast is usually very much relished by healthy persons, especially if no supper or late meal has been taken on the previous evening. The stomach having had a long rest, and the whole system having been soothed and refreshed by sleep, morning seems the most appropriate time for refreshment, as well