PUDDINGS. 196 the sugar and lemon rind. This pudding may be eaten as cake when cold; the mixture may also be fried as fritters. 360. Potatoes boiled and mashed two ounces; butter two ounces; eggs two; cream a quarter of a pint; salt very little, and sugar to taste. Beat all to a froth and bake with or with- out a crust. Some add to the iagredients a table-spoonful of white wine. 361. Potatoes four ounces; carrots four ounces; bread crumbs or flour, etc., four ounces; sugar one to four ounces; butter two to four ounces; currants or raisins four to eight ounces; lemon rind two ounces; nutmeg and cinnamon together half an ounce. Wash the potatoes and carrots, grate them and mix their pulp and the other ingredients well together; put the mixture iato a mould or basin, and boil or steam the pudding three hours or more. A large spoonful of treacle may be added to the mixture. 362. Carrots four ounces; bread crumbs four ounces; eggs one to three; sugar one to four ounces; butter one to four ounces ; milk one quarter to three quarters of a pint. Mix well and bake. 363. Potatoes four ounces; carrots two ounces; bread crumbs four ounces; sugar two ounces; butter two ounces ; currants or raisins six ounces. 364. Mashed potatoes four ounces; boiled carrots two ounces; flour four ounces; currants and raisins four ounces of each; sugar three ounces; butter two ounces; a little nutmeg and a very little salt. Bruise aud beat the carrots to a paste, mix the whole well and boil it in a cloth from two to four hours. One egg would improve it. 365. Parsneps boiled and the water squeezed from them, four ounces; yolks of eggs two; bread crumbs four ounces; a little cream. Mash the parsneps well, and add the other ingre- dients. Make the mixture sweet or savoury, as may be desired ; beat the whole well together; line a dish with paste, and bake in a moderate oven. Creed rice or rice flour may also be added. Parsneps and potatoes, or parsneps, beans, and rice, may be used in the same way. 366. Onions two to six ounces ; bread crumbs eight ounces ;