VEGETARIA.N COOKERY. 222 pepper and salt. Mix the whole well, addin g more fluid when necessary ; fry and serve up with hrown sauce. This mixture may also he haked whole as an omelet, in a buttered dish. 464. Bread crumbs six ounces; eggs four; parsley half an ounce. 465. Breadcrumbs twelve ounces; chopped onions twelve ounces; chopped sage (previously boiled a little) two tea-spoonfuls ; chopped parsley one tea-spoonful; eggs three; cream two table- spoonfuls. Fry the onions with the sage till rather brown, mix the whole, and divide into fritters. 466. Bread crumbs eight ounces; butter two or three ounces; eggs four to six; cream three or four table-spoonfuls; parsley half an ounce; leeks half an oimce ; sweet marjoram, winter savoury and lemon thyme mixed, a quarter of an ounce; a little pepper and salt. Eub the butter into the bread crumbs, mix the whole well, and fry. 467. Mashed potatoes sixteen ounces; bread crumbs two ounces; eggs five ; season with pepper and salt. 468. Rice coarsely ground four ounces ; eggs four ; parsley one tea-spoonful; onions finely chopped one tea-spoonful; pepper and salt. Boil the rice in about half a pint of water; let it cool, then add the other ingredients, and mix well. Fry and serve with brown sauce. 469. Flour one table spoonful; one egg; a little milk, pepper, salt, and cayenne. Mix them so as to form a thick batter ; stir in four ounces of grated cheese just before it is dropped into the pan to be fried. Immediately before removing each fritter from the pan lay a thin slice of cheese 'over it and serve quite hot. 470. Bread sauce fried and garnished with fried parsley forms an excellent dish. 471. Flour eight ounces; butter two ounces, or olive oil three table-spoonfuls. Mix and work well together the flour and butter or oil; make it into a batter with warm water, and add two or three eggs, reserving the yolk for browning. Beat the batter well and drop it by spoonfuls, formed into balls, into boiling butter, and fry. Or, make the whole into a thin paste by