7 CHEMICAL ELEMENTS OF FOOB. The experience of Dr. Fyfe and Mr. Spalding are in accord- ance witk these views, and Dr. Ceaigie infers "that the sustenance of the frame by means of animal diet causes a more violent and laborious action of the lungs than the sustenance of the same frame by means of vegetable diet. Hence, persons living on animal food breathe laboriously, and are less capable of fatigue."* Hence, also, the advantage of a fruit and farinaceous diet in phthisis, because it is of a milder and less stimulating nature than an animal or mixed diet, and the lungs have much less labour to perform, t About eight-ninths of the oxygen inhaled combines -with carbon, the remaining one-ninth unites with other combustible matters, principally hydrogen. Nitrogen or Azote.—This gas is an essential element of every animal tissue, and of most vegetable products. Fat, oils, sugar, starch, etc., when pure, are devoid of it. Azotised prin- ciples contain about 16 per cent, of this element; rice 1'39 per cent.; wheat, rye, etc., 2 to 3 per cent.; peas and beans 4 to 5 5 per cent. Atmospheric air consists of about one-fifth oxygen and four-fifths nitrogen, and it is more than 2}robabU that when food is deficient in nitrogen, this important element is absorbed from the atmosphere. * Nearly one-half of the weight of vegetable productions consist, of carbon, and rather more than one-third of oxygen; the hydrogen amounts to about 5 per cent., and the nitrogen varies from 1 to 4 per cent. Phosphorus.—This is a constituent both of animals and vegetables. It is an essential ingredient of albumen and fibrine, and consequently of all tissues containing these principles. It is found in grain, particularly in the bran, in the yolk of eggs, milk, potatoes, etc. Peas, beans, and lentils contain very little of this element, and to this deficiency some persons ascribe their in- feriority to the cerealia for feeding purposes, although, as above stated, they contain more nitrogen than wheat, barley, etc. • Elements of the Practice of Physic, vol. ii, p. 613. tSee Fruits and Farinacea the Proper Food of Man, p. 159 and 225,