MISCELLANEOUS COMBINATIONS. 169 MISCELLANEOUS COMBINATIONS. 275. The instructions liitlierto given apply chiefly to tlie cooking of single articles of diet, or simple preparations; but as fruits, grain, roots, and other yegetable and animal productions vary much in their chemical composition, nutritive qualities, and suitableness to the palate, an immense variety in these respects may be obtained by judiciously combining two or more articles which differ in character and composition. A few only of the combinations which may be made are here given, by way of example, and directions for further experiments, whereby prepa- rations which can be rendered elegant in appearance, agreeable in flavour, and highly nutritious, may be multiplied almost without limit. Repeated trials must determine those which are most gratifying to individual palates, but in general, it will be advisable to combine those which contain an excess of nitrogenous prin- ciples with such as are of a more farinaceous and oleaginous character. The senses of smell and taste will generally be a sufflcient guide; thus, the leguminous seeds, as peas, beans, and lentils, which contain much nitrogen, and are strong in flavour, should be united with products abounding in starch, and possessing little flavour, as rice, potatoes, etc.; butter also should be added to supply the natural deficiency of these articles in oleaginous matter. 276. The following table is sufficiently near the truth for culinary purposes, and a little attention to it will enable any one to make successful experiments in new preparations, which should be adapted, as nearly as can be ascertained, to the constitutions and employments of those for whom they are intended. Muscu- lar labour may require a liberal supply of nitrogenous articles; for sedentary employments, farinaceous products and fruits should be preferred ; whilst consumptive patients will require a combination of these with saccharine, acidulous, and oleaginous productions. For further observations on these points, see 5, 16, and 49 to 53.