BREAD. 105 off iu large flakes; when ground by iron mills no gritty matter is introduced, and the bran is more minutely divided. To obtain the meal in its greatest perfection, the wheat should be of good quality, fully grown, ripe and free from disease. It should be thoroughly cleansed either by mechanical means, or by washing it in several waters and drying it well before it is ground. The meal should either be used quite fresh, or kept in a clean vessel in a well aired and dry room. The excellence of loaves, cakes, etc. depends materially upon the baking, and no combination of ingredients will be successful, unless great attention be paid to the oven and its temperature (63;. UnFEKMENTED ok UNLEAVE^'ED BkEAD. 121. (a.) Mix eight pounds of coarse wheat meal with two or three pints of soft water ; make it into a still' paste by kneading and beating ; let the dough stand in a warm place with a cloth over it for about half an hour, thtu make it into small loaves or cakes about two inches thick, and buke them in a hot oven. A little salt may be added when mixing the dough, and in cold weather the water should be rather warm. Though this bread is sad, aiul difficult of digestion by weak stomachs, it is wholesome and agreeable to such as* are accustomed to it. As its saduess is chiefly owing to the quantity of gluten contained in wheat meal, it may be improved by adding oatmeal, maize meal, boiled potatoes well bruised, potato-starch, boiled or ground rice, etc., or a mixture of these ; two-thirds of the whole bein? wheat meal. Some add as much water to the coarse wheat meal as it will absorb, and let it stand four or five hours, then knead in the maize meal, etc., and bake. When barley meal is thus made into siilf cakes about three quarters of an inch thick, they are called barley bannocks ; very thin barley cakes are called scones. (b.) When oatmeal is made into thick cakes, they also arc called bannocks ; the terms cakes and claj) bread are ap[jlied to the thin sorts. Make fine oatmeal into a stiff paste with warm water; when cold water is used, the paste becomes shorter and more crumbly in the working ; roll the paste out thin, and rub the surface of each cake over with dry meal, with the palm of the