236 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. turnips, and onions in small pieces; stew them in four ounces of butter; add the boiling water, and boil the soup gently with a little seasoning for two hours. A pint of young peas may be added; or grey peas which have been soaked and boiled; then stew another hour. (>«.) Count Rumford's proportions are, pearl barley four ounces; peas four ounces; potatoes twelve ounces; bread four ounces; salt one ounce; vinegar three ounces; water two quarts. Boil the pearl barley, then add the peas, and continue the boiling for two hours; add the potatoes peeled, or first boiled to remove the peel, boil one hour and stir well. Add the vinegar and salt, and just before serving, pour the soup over the bread. The bread should be cut as fine or thin as possible, and if dry and hard so much the better. The soup may be improved by mixing various kinds of roots, vegetables, and fine herbs. («.) Carrots, turnips, and onions two of each ; one leek and one head of celery. Cut them thin and slanting; fry the onions till rather brown in four ounces of butter, add the other vege- tables and fry them ten minutes longer, then add seven quarts of water, boil up and add split peas one pound and a half; simmer two or three hours, or uutil the whole has been reduced to a pulp ; add two table-spoonfuls of salt, two of sugar, and one of dried mint; mix eight ounces of flour quite smooth with a pint of water, stir it well, pour in the soup, and boil half an hour. (o.) One turnip; one carrot; three or four Jerusalem arti- chokes ; six middle-sized onions; two heads of celery; one leek. All the vegetables together should weigh about two pounds; butter four ounces ; water one quart. Fry about one-half of the vegetables with a portion of the butter ; cut the remaining half of the vegetables into small portions, and put them along with the fried vegetables to the water; raise the teVoperature to the boiling point, then let the whole simmer two hours, adding fresh boiling water as evaporation proceeds, so as to have about a quart of soup when the process is finished. Strain the soup, using a little pressure; if not thick enough, add a little flour and a little cream if at hand; also a