SEEDS, OR CEREAL GRAINS. 95 of sugar broken small, and boil till the pipes are soft and well swollen. Drain the macaroni and arrange it on a hot dish; stir the milk quickly to the well beaten yolks of three large eggs, shake the whole briskly over the tire till it thickens; then pour it over the macaroni and serve. Instead of eggs, cream heated and sweetened may be poured over the drained macaroni, then dust finely powdered cinnamon over. Vermicelli, 109. Wash, steep and drop it into boiling milk or soup. Boil it about half the time required for macaroni. If the fluid does not boil, the vermicelli will stick together. Feas, Haricots J and Leiitils. (28). 110, (a). Wash and then soak them during three or four hours, or from twelve to twenty-four hours if requisite, changing the water once or twice during the time. To one pint of these seeds add three pints of cold soft water, an ounce of butter, a little salt, and, if the water be hard, a few grains of soda. Simmer or boil gently during three hours, or until the seeds are tender. ib). Another mode of boiling peas, etc., is first to pick and clean them by rubbing them in a dry cloth ; then sprinkle them from the hand into fust boiling water, very gradually, so as not to check the boiling. The water should be sufficient to cover them, and when it has nearly evaporated, add cold water, boil them a few minutes longer, and the skins will break. Drain off the water, stew the seeds gently for about ten minutes with a little salt, sugar, pepper, chopped parsley, and one or two ounces of butter well mixed together, and stirred till ready to be served. Some add juice of lemon, chopped eschalots, or fried onions, etc. They may also be stewed with white sauce, a little butter, and an eschalot finely minced. The water iu which they have been boiled may be converted into a palatable soup by putting it into a stew-pan with fried onions, a little flour, toasted bread, etc. Lentils Fricasseed, (c.) Stew some sliced onions in melted butter; boil and drain