FRUIT. 67 for a solution of sugar, even when kept at the temperature of boiling water, undergoes slow decomposition. Pour the water cold on the sugar, and let them stand a few hours, occasionally stirring the solution ; then apply a gentle heat, that of steam or a water bath is preferable. A syrup should not boil but simmer, and the simmering should be checked after the lapse of one or two minutes. If it be requisite to thicken a syrup by boiling, a few fragments of glass should be introduced, as boiling takes place at a lower temperature when these are present. A syrup has simmered sufficiently, if when taken up in a spoon 'it pours out like oil; and when a thin skin appears on blowing upon the syrup it is considered completely saturated. "When nearly cold, the syrup may be strained through flannel; and when not sufficiently transparent it may be clarified when cool by stirring in the whites of eggs; renew the heat, skim the syrup well, and strain it when cold. (3.) To Cook Vegetable Maruow, Cucumbers, AND Pumpkins. 70. The gourd tribe nny be cooked in various ways, but 'vegetable marrow and cucumbers are the only sorts much used in this country in a cooked state. j (a.) Peel vegetable marrow, cut it into small portions, and stew it after any of the preceding methods; but it is usually boiled land served like sea-kale. Choose the marrow when about six inches long, and before it becomes too old and seedy. Put it in boiling water with a little salt in it, boil it till tender, then pare it, cut it in halves lengthwise, and serve it on toast with butter sauce or white sauce. It should not be pricked while boiling, and when the skin can be rubbed off the marrow is ready. {b.) After boiling and peeling it, slice it lengthwise about three-quarters of an inch thick; remove the seeds, drain or dry i it well, season it with pepper and salt, and leave it till cold ; then dip each piece in batter, or in egg and fine crumbs of bread, and fry it. Serve it with crisped parsley and brown sauce, or with fried onion. Thus prepared, it may be used cold between slices of I bread as a sandwich. (c.) After vegetable marrow has been boiled, pared, and drained.