COOKING PROCESSES. 61 ate principles of the farina, gives it a higher flavour, renders it I tonic and more easy to digest. I (9.) Frying. 66. To fry is to cook any thing in hot fat, butter, or , oil, by which means the surface of the substance is carbonized, and the albumen solidified. Animal fat is of course inadmissible in Vegetarian cookery, and fried articles generally are not so digestible as those cooked by other methods. The butter or oil used for frying should be fresh and free from salt ; if raucid or I ill tasted, it will spoil the flavour of the article fried, and salt , will prevent it being properly browned. Care also should be i taken not to ignite the fat. Fine olive oil is the most delicate for frying, but being more expensive than butter, it is not so frequently used. It also requires great care in using it, as it is apt to burn. If butter is not clarified (48) it is liable to burn, and give out an empyreumatic flavour, owing to the milk it contains To fry anything a good colour and crisp, the fire should be very clear, and the butter or oil quite hot, which will be the case when it has ceased hissing, or when it will fry a piece of bread crisp without burning it. Unless the article be sufficiently car- bonized immediately after immersion, it will become greasy and i lose its flavour. As soon as the surface has become brown, the heat should be reduced; or the pan removed a little oflT the fire, especially if the article to be cooked be large or thick, otherwise the interior will not be sufiiciently done. The butter or oil I should be thoroughly drained from articles which have been fried, particularly such as have been dressed with bread crumbs, etc.; this is best done by having a frame of open wire work to fit the pan; otherwise they should be laid upon blotting paper or a cloth. Some articles require to be quite covered with the liquid, that the heat may act on all parts at the same time. For this purpose an iron vessel, about six or eight inches deep, with a wire work frame, should be half filled with oil or fat, and what remains after each operation should be passed through a clean sieve; it may then be kept in a proper vessel for months.