VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 130 162. Cracknuts.—Flour sixteen ounces ; butter eight ounces; eggs eight; sugar twelve ounces. 163. Cracknells. — Flour sixteen ounces; butter eight ounces; eggs eight; sugar sixteen ounces. Add four spoonfuls of cream and a few caraway seeds. Roll the paste out as thin as paper; rnb it over with white of egg, dust fine sugar over; cut it into cakes and bake them. 164. Tarmouth Biscuits.—Flour sixteen ounces; butter eleven ounces; eggs four; sugar eleven ounces. Add eight ounces of currants. 165. Small Cakes.—Flour sixteen ounces; butter twelve ounces; yolks of eggs four; sugar eight ounces. Add currants, candied lemon, and almonds cut small. 166. Naples Biscuits.—Flour sixteen ounces; eggs one to four; sugar eight to twelve ounces. Mix the flour with water instead of milk; add four spoonfuls of orange-flower water; make the whole into a rather stiS' batter and pour it into paper moulds; put them on tins to bake, sift fine sugar over them, and bake quickly. 167. Galette.—Flour sixteen ounces; butter twelve ounces; eggs two ; sugar two tea-spoonfuls; salt quarter of a tea-spnonful; cream one gill and a little milk if necessary. "Work all well into a good stiff paste ; roll it into a cake three quarters of an inch thick ; egg it over; score it with a knife in diamonds or any other shape, bake for about half an hour in a rather hot oven. Sprinkle sugar over and serve. 168. Diet Cakes.—FXoxn: sixteen ounces; eggs six; sugar sixteen ounces; milk or water half a pint. 169. Dro2i Biscuits. —'Flonv sixteen ounces; eggs eight; sugar twelve ounces; caraway seeds one ounce. Drop the batter on white paper about the size of half a crown. 170. Marlborough Cakes.— Ylom sixteen ounces; eggs eight; sugar sixteen ounces; caraway seeds two ounces. Bake in soup plates or in tin pans. 171. Bice Cakes.—GxoxmA rice sixteen ounces; or wheat flour eight ounces and ground rice eight ounces ; eggs twelve; sugar sixteen ounces; the peel of one lemon grated and half the juice.