235 SOUPS. rasped, the other half cut small; turnips two; celery two; onions two; one leek; butter four ounces; sugar one table- spoonful. Stew the cut vegetables with the butter and sugar as in 486. To these add two quarts of boiling water, or of broth (488 a.), and before the soup is removed from the fire add two table-spoonfuls of lemon pickle, or the juice of a lemon. (A.) Carrots or parsneps two pounds; celery two heads; butter three ounces; red part of carrots six ounces ; water four pints and a half; or substitute three ounces of rice or barley for one half of the carrots. Proceed as in 486. (i.) Jerusalem artichokes or vegetable marrow two pounds; turnips one pound ; onions two or three; celery one head ; water two quarts ; flour two table-spoonfuls ; butter one ounce; pepper and salt. Boil or stew the vegetables till tender; add the llour and seasoning, let the soup simmer half an hour, and stir it frequently. (y.) Carrots in very thin slices two pounds ; onions sliced two ; cloves two; a little thyme ; sugar imd salt two tea-spoonfuls of each, and a quarter of a tea-spoonful of pepper; water half a pint. Let the whole simmer gently for forty minutes; add three table-spoonfuls of flour, previously mixed with a little butter; then add two quarts of broth (488 a.); pass the whole through a sieve, and when the soup has been again heated, serve it. {k.) Cucumbers five or six of a moderate size; cos lettuces six; bread crumbs six ounces; onions four ounces; parsley one ounce; butter four ounces. Pare and slice the cucumbers and onions; dress and cut the lettuces; add the parsley with a little seasoning, put the vegetables in a pan with the butter, and stew them gently for three quarters of an hour; then pour in two quarts of boiling water, add the bread crumbs, and let the soup simmer gently for two hours. If too thin, mix a tea-spoonful of flour with an ounce of butter, stir it well in, boil ten minutes longer, and add a table-spoonful of tarragon vinegar. {I.) Cabbage lettuces two; spinach a handful; carrots six; turnips six; onions three or four ; parsley one ounce; water two quarts. "Wash and chop the vegetables small; cut the carrots,