FRUITS PKESEUVED -WITH SUGAR. 77 pour it over the fruit, * and let it stand till next day. Again remove the fruit, add the remaining third of the sugar to the syrup, let it simmer for five or ten minutes, then pour it over the fruit and put it with the syrup in jars, as directed (76), or drain and dry the fruit, as at 78. (d.) Put the fruit in stone jars, sprinkle over it one-third of the sugar; put the jars in a boiler of cold water; let the water ibimmer gently till a syrup has been obtained, and allow the fruit ,to stand in it till next day; then drain off the syrup, and add to it another third of the sugar; simmer it ten minutes, and skim it I well, then pour it over the fruit; continue the process with the remaining third of the sugar till the fruit is clear ; then put it in small jars and cover them (76). («.) Take half as much more fruit as finely powdered sugar ; put one third of the fruit (the ripest and most bruised) in a jar ; sprinkle over it one-sixth of the sugar, and place it in a moderately heated oven, or over the fire, until the juice has been extracted, which drain from the fruit, and the remaining pulp may be used for pies, puddings, or jams, by adding to it a few red currants or rhubarb, and more sugar. When red currant juice can be ob- tained, it may be used instead of that of the fruit to be preserved. Heat the remaining sugar on a dish in the oven, add one half of it to the juice when near the boiling point; simmer the whole for a few minutes, or until it has become clear by skimming. Then take it from the fire, and carefully add the reserved fruit; sprinkle over it the remaining sugar; simmer the whole for twenty minutes, but very gently, lest you break the fruit. Take out the fruit carefully with a slice, and put the most entire in a jar; simmer the syrup from three to five minutes longer ; pour it over the fruit, and let it stand till cold, then cover it (76). If the preserve does not set well, drain off the juice, boil it, aad then pour it over the fruit. Thus are prepared strawberries, raspberries, and other juicy and delicate fruits. • When you wish the fruit to be green and firm, let the syrup stand till it is cold before you pour it over the fruit, in all other cases pour it over while hut (68/).