225 SOUPS. principles and flavours of the various articles employed ; and thus produce in a fluid or semi-fluid state, a stimulating, nutritious, and palatable compound. Soup, however, is insufficient to main- tain health and strength without bread or other solid aliment, and being less digestible than the latter, it should always be taken in moderation. 478. Utensils.—The cover of the soup-pan, or pot-au-feu, should fit closely; stew-pans and saucepans should be filled with water after the soup, sauce, etc., have been removed, and these as well as all other vessels employed should be kept very clean and dry. As soups will ferment without the greatest attention, they should be warmed up every day, or every other day in cool weather, put into fresh scalded tureens, and kept in a cool place. 479. Ingredients.—The first requisite is pure, soft, or dis- tilled water; hard water, however, is said to be preferable for green pea-soup, as the colour of the peas is better preserved in it (4). Nearly all sorts of grain, roots, and vegetables may be used in making soups; some for the purpose of supplying nutritive matter, others for imparting flavour, etc.; and the art of composing a good, rich, palatable soup, consists ia judiciously proportioning the several ingredients, taking care that the flavour of no one article overpowers that of the rest. The principal articles employed are:— 1. Grain, Scotch barley, pearl-barley, groats, rice, peas, bean?, lentils, whole or ground; also arrowroot, tous-les-mois, potato flour, sago, macaroni, vermicelli, semolina, Cagliari paste (21, etc.) 2. Jtoots, etc. — Potatoes, carrots, parsneps, turnips, beet, Jerusalem artichokes, horseradish, and one or two fruits, as cucumbers, vegetable marrow, tomatoes, etc. (39). 3. Buds and Young /SAoo^s.—Onions, eschalots, garlic, leeks asparagus, etc. (41). ' 4. Leaves, leafstalks, and £racts.~Gabhages, cauliflowers, lettuces, celery, and its seed, bay leaves (42). 5. -&«ris.—Parsley, common thyme, lemon thyme, orange thyme, knotted marjoram, sage, mint, winter savory, sweet basil, tarragon, chervil, burnet, etc. The latter has the flavour of cucumber. 15