143 BOILED MEAL, FLOUR, ETC. Thin Porridge or Gruel. 205. Oatmeal one or two table-spoonfuls; water or milk one pint. . . , , When the water or milk nearly boils, stir m the meal, previ- ously mixed smooth with a little cold water and a little salt; or pour the boiling water or milk to the meal by degrees, and return the whole to the pan. Boil it a few minutes; skim and strain it, if thought necessary, then pour the gruel into basins, with or'without toasted bread. It will become smoother and pleasanter by being boiled or simmered longer, or by the oatmeal having been steeped for several hours in cold water before the gruel is prepared. When made with milk it is excellent for breakfast during the winter season, and in Yorkshire is called «' milk and oatmeal." It does not agree well with all persons on the first trial, and in such case it should be taken in small quan- tities, till the stomach can digest it well. It may be enriched with a little butter or cream when oleaginous preparations are desirable. When a thinner gruel is required, the coarser part of the oat- meal is allowed to settle, then the fluid part is poured off and boiled a few minutes longer. Add sugar, nutmeg, ginger, etc., according to taste. It may be flavoured with cinnamon, a spoon- ful of preserved black currants, sweet herbs, onions, etc., by boil- ing any of these in the water about half an hour, and straining it before the flour or meal is added. One or two yolks of eggs may be beaten, mixed with a little of the gruel, and then added ; the pan should bo held over the fire, but the gruel should not boil after the eggs have been added (13 366, 471). The eggs may be added to boiled milk instead of gruel; a little salt and sugar being also added. Ground rice, maize powder, Indian meal, semolina, manna croup, sago, tapioca, arrowroot, salep, potato flour, patent barley flour, revalenta, lentil meal, etc., maybe used instead of oatmeal; or two of them may be combined; as, equal quantities of potato starch and oatmeal. About one ounce of any of the above will be suflacient for a pint of water, and two ounces of sugar; and if boiled till it appears like a clear jelly, and then strained through a sieve or thin cloth,