METHODS OF MIXING FLOUR, ETC. 101 l olling out the paste, distribute tlie butter evenly over the surface; fold and roll it carefully. This method is employed in makini; light pastry for pies, etc. (c.) Beat part of the butter to a cream, or slowly dissolve it and mix it with the flour ; then add the water, and roll in the remain- ing butter. Or, dissolve the butter in the water, break the eggs iuto the flour, skim the butter from the top of the water and mis it with the flour, adding as much of the water as is necessary. This method is recommended for standing pies. See 190. (d.) Cut the butter into small pieces, dissolve it gently in one half the milk in a saucepan, applying no more heat than is just sufficient, and shake it well during its solution. Add the remaining milk or other fluid along with the salt and sugar; pour the whole by degrees at a temperature of 98°, or blood-heat, to the flour, and stir the whole till quite smooth. If too thick, add a little more fluid, and, lastly, stir in the beaten whites. "When yeast is used, pour the dissolved butter, etc., into the centre of the liour, with a portion of which forna a batter, and then add the yeast and eggs; when well mixed, cover the whole with a cloth, and set it in a warm place to rise. When baking powders, or an alkali and an acid are used, the milk and all other fluids should be added cold. Butter is sometimes recommended to be beaten to a cream, and then added to the flour, etc., but cakes are quite as light when the butter is dissolved as above.] {e.) Dissolve the butter as in and stir in gradually the whisked eggs, beat in the flour, then the sugar, and beat the whole well. (/.) Add the salt and sugar to the flour, make a hole in the centre, put in the yeast, and pour over it the warm milk in which the butter has been dissolved ; beat the whole iuto a stifle batter or light dough, and let it stand to rise four or five hours; then add the whites and yolks of eggs well beaten, then the fruit, etc. Butter the tins or moulds, fill them rather more than half or nearly three quarters full, then let the dough rise from one to three or four hours and bake. ^^ffs, Flour, etc. 117. {a.) Mix the flour gradually with the eggs, well