108 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. to the required thickness, pierce the cakes to let out the steam, and hake them hy a moderately quick heat till they are of a fine hrown colour. Whea they are three parts done, remove them to a slow oven, and allow the steam which may arise to escape, otherwise the hiscuits will become soft instead of crisp. When thick biscuits are pierced only half way through, they are easily separated for the purpose of being buttered. The heat of the oven is not required to be so high for those biscuits which contain sugar, as they acquire more colour in a short time; neither should they be dried so much as others. Plain Biscuits, formed of undressed wheat meal and water, well made and carefully baked, are probably the most wiiolesome kind of bread, and may be kept in tin canisters for a considerable time without injury. Those who find the biscuits too hard and tena- cious may add a little arrow-root, ground rice, etc., to the meal as above directed. Dyspeptics are fi-equenlly able to digest this kind of bread with ease, when fermented bread disagrees with them, owing probably to the renewal of the fermentative process in the stomach. Next to plain biscuits thin slices of loaf bread well toasted (65) will generally be found the most dige=tible. The toast should be crisp, of a light brown colour, and never buttered while hot. Sweet butter, applied to biscuits or cold xoast, will seldom cause inconvenience to the digestive organs. Raised oe Light Bread. 123. As raised or light bread is generally preferred, and is more easily digested by weak stomachs, various, modes have been employed for producing it without causing fermentation. The following are the principal articles used for this purpose: — 1. Baking powders prepared by various chemists. Or, bicarbonate of soda four ounces; tartaric acid three ounces; best flour two ounces. Or, bicarbonate of potash five ounces; tartaric acid four ounces; powdered loaf sugar one ounce; finely ground Patna rice four ounces; East Indian arrow-root one ounce. The ino-redients should be beaten and mixed well together m a marble o°Wedgewood mortar. Keep the powder closely covered, and in a dry place.