178 VEGETAHTAN COOKERY. peel, cover eacli apple with a thin paste, 186, 187, and boil it in a cloth, or cup, or hake it thirty or forty minutes. Serye with butter and sugar, or pour custard over each. 295. Butter a basin, or dredge it with flour, line it evenly with a good paste about a quarter of an inch thick, then put in the fruit with sugar and a little water; cut off the paste close to the edge of the basin, cover the top with paste extending a little over the mouth of the basin, and press it well round and over the rim, to keep in the syrup. Have ready a well scalded cloth, lay it over the top of the basin, and tie it closely round the bottom, then put the pudding in boiling water, or in a steamer for an hour or an hour and a half. 296. Roll out the paste a quarter of an inch thick, lay the fruit, sugar, etc., upon it; draw the extremities of the paste over the fruit to a centre, closing it well together. Boil the pudding in a knitted or closely netted cloth. If a pudding cloth be used, dip it in hot water, wring it and shake it well, butter it, or dredge it with flour, tie it closely round the pudding and boil or steam the pudding as above. Ripe cherries, currants, raspberries, plums, etc., will not require so long boiling, nor so much sugar, as apples, rhubarb, etc. Some apples may require to be previously stewed with a very little water, till about half done, and evenly softened by occasional turning ; drain the water from them, put them in a basin to cool, and stir in a little sugar ; then proceed as above. When the pudding has been sufficiently cooked, turn it gently out of the cloth upon a dish. It may be eaten with melted butter and sugar, or other sweet sauce. Some recommend that, after the pudding has been put upon the dish, an opening should be made at the top of the paste to prevent it becoming sad, and then stir in a little butter, sugar, and condi- ments or flavouring when desired ; but So^-eb says that making an opening to put in the sugar spoils the flavour, and makes the pudding heavy. „ , This kind of pudding is frequently termed "dumpling, and when it is well prepared with light pastry (186, 187), it is a judici- ous combination of fruit and farinacea, and is wholesome, nutri- tious, and economical. Dr. Johnson said he knew a clergyman