ARTICLES USED IN VEGETARIAN DIET. 41 eaten raw ; in the latter state some persons eat them with sugar in preference to salt. Sldrret; Stum ses^rMm.—Worlidge, in 1682, calls this the sweetest, whitest, and most pleasant of roots. It is perennial, and a native of China. It has bunches of fusiform, fleshy roots of a russet colour externally, white within. Flavour mild, sugary, and slightly like celery. It may be boiled, fried, or used in soups. 40. Some roots, etc., as turnips, carrots, radishes, are palatable and wholesome, in small quantities uncooked; others, as potatoes, require the aid of heat to render them either pleasant to the taste or digestible. The starch with which they abound is converted by heat into dextrine (6), in which state it is more soluble; but even raw potatoes, washed, pared, and sliced into vinegar, are very beneficial when used as a salad in scorbutic com- plaints. When roots, tubers, etc., are stored for future use they should not be cleansed from the loose earth, lest the fibres be injured, and the evaporation from them increased. Previously to being cooked, they should be washed very clean, a brush being employed when necessary ; they should not be pared. Beet root should not even be scraped, nor should the fibres or smaller divisions of the root be removed, as it would destroy the colour. Tubers and roots should not bo divided or cut into smaller portions, except when they are too large for the heat of the water to penetrate them sufficiently to render them tender, or when intended for soup. Large turnips may be peeled and cut into quarters; old potatoes in Spring should be peeled or scored round with a knife, and cleaned from specks ; large carrots should be cut in two, and split a few inches at the top. Some potatoes, when t iken from the winter store, are improved by being peeled and steeped in cold water for ten or twelve hours, before they are boiled. The water absorbed during the steeping is afterwards driven out by the heat, and with it any bad flavour the potatoes may have acquired. Turnips and parsneps may likewise be soaked in cold water ; turnips being previously peeled.