ARTICLES USED IN VEGETARIAN DIET. 33 much, as wheat. As the husk possesses au aromatic and slightly acid- ulous flarour, it should not be removed, but ground up with the meal Eye bread diifers little, iu nutritive quality, from that of wheat, but it retains its freshness and moisture longer than wheaten bread. The former is less astringent than the latter, but with those who are not accustomed to it, it is apt to produce acidity of the stomach. The gluten of rye differs from that of wheat, and according to Heldt, it contains very little fibrine, but a nitro- genous substance, which he calls vegetal gelatine. 26. Rice.—This grain is indigenous in India, but the finest sort is grown in Carolina. It was cultivated by the Egyptians, Persians, Babylonians, and all the Eastern nations. It is nutritive and emollient, but contains little fat. Rice may be cooked in a great variety of ways, and being easy of digestion, and mild in its qualities, it forms an excellent diet for the invalid, as well as for the strong and healthy, especially when combined with milk, cheese, eggs, etc. It has been generally said to contain little nitrogen, and therefore has been thought to be less nutritious than the other grains. Professor Johnston says rice contains 7 or 8 per cent, of gluten, and there can be no doubt of its being both nutritive and wholesome. Merat and De Lens state that three- fourths of the inhabitants of the earth are nourished by it. 27. Maize or Indian Co/-«.—This graiu is of great anti- quity, and its range of growth is from the equatorial regions to about 50° north and 40*^ south. It is a wholesome and nutritious aliment, and contains more oil or fat than any of our common grains; hence its generally reputed fattening quality. Indian corn is too large and too hard to be used whole in its ripe state, and is manufactured into three distinct articles, namely, hominy, Indian meal, and maize powder. The first is com- posed of the white and flinty matter of the corn, and is either fine, about the size of a pin's head, or large, almost the size of split peas. Indian meal contains a portion of the finer particles of bran. Maize powder consists of the white or floury portion of the corn, and is used for the finer preparations in cookery. Polenta is the name by which the fiour of maize, as prepared in Italy, is known; it is considered superior to that of American produce. It may be obtained at the Italian warehouses in