146 VEGETARIAN COOKERY, grain or sago, etc., and baked fruit sweetened; then put it in a cool place. "When required, it may be ■warmed either in an oven, or over boiling water, or before the fire with a plate turned over it. Or line a basin with a thick layer of boiled sago, rice, etc.; spread a thick layer also upon a large plate, and when cold and firm, turn the basin over the plate, and with a knife cut the sago round the edge of the basin; put the parings at the bottom of the basin, then fill it with baked fruit and place the sago which is on the plate as a cover. "When required, remove the mould. 214. The milk used for creeing the grain may be flavoured with cocoa-nut, cinnamon, or almonds, etc. (56 and 57). Blanch and pound to a paste two ounces of Jordan almonds ; stir to them slowly a pint of boiling milk; when the milk has received sufiicient flavour from the almonds, squeeze it from them again through a thin cloth and set it aside to cool. Pour the milk upon four ounces of washed, soaked, and drained rice, and bring the whole very slowly to the point of boiling; simmer it gently till rather tender, stirring it occasionally. Add one ounce of butter and two ounces of powdered sugar. When quite tender and dry, press it whilst hot into a mould as above, about an inch thick, fill it with baked fruit, apricot jam, etc. Farinacea in moulds may be served either quite plain or with a rich syrup of apple juice well flavoured with lemon; or stuck with almond spikes, and covered with custard or mock cream, etc. TO BOIL EOOTS, TUBERS, ETC. General Htde, 215. Prepare them as directed at 40; then put them in boiling water, with a little salt in it; let them boil a few minutes, then add so much cold water as will reduce the temperature to 165" or 158°, and keep up the heat to this point till the roots are sufficiently tender, which may be ascertained by probing them with a fork; but red beet should only be tried with the fingers at the thick part of the root. They should neither be pared, cut, nor put into cold water, because albumen and other