VEGETABIAN COOKERY. 96 the lentils, and add them to the onions with a little broth, pepper, salt, and a sprig of savory, which remove before serving; reduce the same by simmering to a proper consistency, and add a very small quantity of vinegar when ready. As the leguminous seeds contain much nitrogen (15), while rice, potatoes, carrots, etc., contain little, it appears judicious to combine one of the former with one of the latter, in order to pro- duce a cheap and nutritious compound ; mashed potatoes, or creed rice, stewed with peas, haricots, etc., make an excellent dish. As these seeds also are deficient in fat or oil, butter or oil should be added. Hence the general custom of boiling beans, etc., with fat bacon. Green dried peas, split peas, rice, Scotch barley, one handful of each: steep twelve to eighteen hours, changing the water. To one pint add three pints of soft cold water, one ounce of butter, salt, etc. Simmer or boil them gently three hours or till tender. Drain and stew gently for ten minutes with a little salt, sugar, pepper, chopped parsley, etc., and one or two ounces of butter. Chopped eschalots, fried onions, etc., may be added. Or stew the peas, etc. with white sauce, a little butter, and an eschalot finely minced. Boiled carrots, turnips, onions, celery, and herbs may be stewed with the leguminous seeds. Fkumenty, lliCE Milk, Gettel, etc. Frumenty. 111. To each pint of creed grain add two pints of water or milk, or any other proportion which may be preferred. Place the pan containing them on the fire, and stir the mixture constantly with a wooden spoon or slice, breaking the lumps to prevent the grain being burnt. "When near boiling, a little flour, previously mixed smooth with a little cold milk or water, may be stirred in, and as soon as it boils it is ready to be served. Some acid pimento, sugar, or salt, according- to taste. To the creed grain may also he added currants well washed and picked, or raisins well cleaned, or apples pared, cored, and cut small. Some thicken frumenty with the yolks of eggs beaten with a little milk, and instead of pimento add cinnamon or grated nutmeg; or flavour it by boiling a laurel leaf, etc., in it.