ARTICLES USED IN VEGETARIAN DIET. 43 sorrel, etc., also rhubarb, previously described, as spring fruit and artichokes. " The cabbage is an especially nutritious vegetable," says Professor Johnston. "The dried leaf contains, according to my analysis, from 30 to 3.5 per cent, of gluten, (about 2-5 in the natural state), and is, in this respect, therefore, more nutritious than any other vegetable food which is consumed to a large extent by men and animals. I know, indeed, of only two exceptions— the mushroom, which in its dry matter contains sometimes as much as 56 per cent, of gluten—and the dried cauliflower, in which the gluten occasionally rises as high as 64 per cent. Like peas, beans, and other articles abounding in nitrogen, they require the addition of oily or fatty matter. M. Chevreul has ascertained that sulphuretted hydrogen is disengaged during the boiling of cabbages, turnips, onions, etc., which, in all probability, is the source of the disagreeable odour. The same author recommends water charged with common salt, for boiling such herbs, as it renders them agreeable and saccharine in taste. Not more than an ounce of salt to a quart of water, if the object is to soften and reduce the strong fibres; a stronger solution will preserve the tissues from being too much acted upon by the water, and from being rendered too pulpy (4). Care should be taken to continue the cooking till the vegetables are quite tender. The Couve Tronehida is grown chiefly for the mid ribs of the outward large leaves, which, when divested of their green parts and well boiled, resemble sea kale. The heart or middle part of the plant, however, is the best for use; it is peculiarly delicate, tender, and agreeably flavoured, without any of the coarseness which often belongs to the cabbage tribe. The dwarf variety, murciana, is much more tender. Celery.—The whole plant is used either in a green or blanched state, as well as its seeds. In the former, and also in the latter form, it is used to flavour soups. CeleriaCy or Turnip-rooted Celery.—The root is cut into slices and used in German salads, both roots and leaves are cooked as celery. Lettuce is one of our best salad herbs. It is eaten raw in