PUDDINGS. 191 345. Line a plain buttered mould or basin with, slices of cold plum-pudding, join and press them well; then nearly fill the mould with a custard mixture as above; cover the top with slices of pudding, or with a buttered paper and floured cloth. Bake from thirty to sixty minutes; or, tie it securely and boil or steam it. 346. Cover the bottom of a deep pie-dish with thin slices of bread baked the previous day; put upon them small portions of preserves at short distances; cover these with thin slices of bread, and repeat the alternate layers of fruit and bread till the dish is three parts full; then pour a custard over and let it remain till next day. It requires no heat and should be eaten cold. The custard may be made thus ; boil a pint of new milk, to which two ounces of sugar, two bay leaves, and a little cinnamon have been added; beat up the yolks of two eggs and add them to the milk by degrees; then put it on the fire and stir it till thick, but do not permit it to boil; while it is hot pour it over the pudding ; cover it immediately and let it remain till next day ; then turn it out on a dish, and beat up the whites of the two eggs to a froth and put it lightly on the pudding. 347. Bread, toast, or bread and butter sixteen ounces; sugar four ounces; currants two to eight ounces; butter two ounces; eggs three. Soak the bread in cold milk or cold water for an hour or two (58), putting a plate upon it to keep it under the fluid, of which there should be liitle more than sufficient to cover the bread; if water be used, press the bread, after soaking, in a colander to remove all the water from it; return it to the pan, add a dessert-spoonful of flour, and the other ingredients. Mix the whole well with a wooden spoon, and bake in a buttered dish, an hour and a half or two hours. Half the peel of a fresh lemou may be grated and added, a little ginger or other seasoning; treacle may be substituted for sugar. 348. (a.) Bread crumbs four ounces; sugar two to four ounces; butter two to four ounces; eggs two to four; milk one pint. Boil the milk and with it the bread crumbs, or pour the boiling milk over the crumbs, and when well soaked, add the other ingredients; line a dish with paste, cover the bottom with preserve or marmalade, pour in the mixture and bake one hour.