VEGETARIAN COOXERY. 120 Or, one quarter of an ounce of bicarbonate of soda, and half a pint of butter milk. Butter.—See 47. Hffffs.—See 53. A little yeast beaten with sugar and the yolk of an egg will render a cake much lighter than the addition of any quantity of eggs or butter, but the latter articles will of course add much to its richness. "When eggs are added to dough it should be well stirred and beaten, but not kneaded ; it should then be put in tins and set to rise. Eggs should not be added to any preparation the temperature of which is not below 159°, or they will coagulate, and when added with cream, they should be previously well beaten with it. When eggs, spinach juice, or any other albuminous articles are added to fluids, they should not be permitted to boil afterwards. Boiling milk or any other hot liquid poured on eggs, should be added very gradually, and the whole should be stirred briskly till thoroughly mixed. If the whites of eggs are required without the yolks, the latter should be used for custards, puddings, etc., and if not wanted for several hours, beat them up with a little water, and put them in a cool place, or they will become hard and useless. Sugar.—See 5. Sugar should be reduced to a fine powder, and sifted through a fine hair or lawn sieve, and then mixed well with the flour, the refined sugar being always preferable except for common purposes. When milk or other fluid is used it should be warmed, and the sugar may be dissolved in it instead of being mixed with the flour. See also 117. A very little salt is said to improve all sweet cakes, puddings, etc., but it should be very slightly perceptible to the taste. About a tea-spoonful of salt to a pound of sugar (55). Lemon or orange peel should be pared very thin, to avoid the bitter part, and beaten to a paste with a little sugar in a marble or Wedgewood mortar, and then mixed with a little cream or milk; or, rub the peel with pieces of loaf sugar, which should be after- wards pounded with the remainder of the sugar. When the juice only of lemons or oranges is wanted, chop the peel small, put it in