PUDDINGS. 177 289. Having stewed some rice till rather soft, add to it butter and sugar, in the proportion of one ounce of each to four ounces of rice previously to being cooked ; simmer the whole till dry and tender, and before removing it from the fire, mix in a Uttle sugar upon which fresh lemon-rind has been rubbed, or any other approved flavouring. Press the rice while it is hot into a well buttered mould, make the surface smooth, and let it stand till cold. Turn out the rice upon a tin or dish, and upon the top of it mark out a circle an inch or more in diameter ; brush clarified butter over the whole, and place it in a well-heated oven. When it has received a light brown colour, carefully raise the cover previously marked; remove the principal part of the rice from the interior, or until it is about one inch thick in all directions; then fill with preserved fruit warmed in its own syrup; or with compotes of plums or other fruit; or with stewed apples, etc., to which the requisite quantity of sugar and flavouring has been added. Instead of rice any other creed grain may be employed, or a combination of two or more of them. Unless the rice be cooked slowly, and till very dry, it will not answer the above purpose, 290. Apples or other fruit eight ounces; Scojjch barley stewed two hours, eight ounces; sago two ounces half cooked; sugar six ounces. Bake. 291. Apples six ounces; pearl barley four ounces ; whites of eggs three ; sugar two to three ounces; salt half a tea-spoonful. Bake one hour in a pie-dish in a hot oven. 292. Pare and core some apples and fill the cavities with raspberry or strawberry jam, or marmalade; border a dish with paste, put in the apples, leaving a little space between them, and fill it up with creed rice; sift sugar over and bake one hour at a tolerable heat. 293. Wash four ounces of rice, tie it rather loosely in a cloth with eight ounces of stoned raisins; boil two hours and serve with sweet sauce. It may also be boiled in a mould. Fruit and Paste Puddings. 294. Pare and core some good baking apples, without divid- ing them, fill up the space made by coring, with sugar and lemon- 12