VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 2U with a short paste, fill them with the mixture. Bake them care- fully, and before serving the patties, grate some cheese over them, and brown them before the fire. Instead of the hasty pudding, grated carrots and turnips or other vegetables may be used; adding a little butter, strong bran tea, and seasoning. 431. Eggs two, boiled hard and cut small; creed rice two table-spoonfuls; potatoes two, sliced; butter one ounce; arrowroot two spoonfuls made into jelly with half a pint of water ; cream a spoonful or two ; season with cayenne, or pepper and salt. Lay the sliced potatoes at the bottom of the dish, then the rice, eggs, etc. in layers. 432. Bread crumbs six ounces; chopped onions half an ounce; eggs four. Moisten the bread crumbs with four table- spoonfuls of cold water; add the eggs well beaten; pepper and salt; mix the ingredients well, tie them in a cloth and boil forty- five minutes. When cold, cut the pudding in small pieces; add two or three hard boiled eggs cut in pieces ; one ounce of tapioca; and two ounces of butter in small pieces; cover the whole with a paste and bake. A few small mushrooms may be added. 433. Onion and sage fritters cut small; mushrooms; hard boiled eggs three; tapioca two ounces; butter one ounce. See also the mixtures for Forcemeat Pudding, 356 to 358. Oheese-ealces, 434. This term is used to designate shells of pastry filled with curd; or with rice, potatoes, and other mixtures and baked; but it is strictly applicable only when curd is used. For caseine or curd, see 15 and 50. EoU out some paste to the thickness of from a quarter to half an inch; line the pans or cases with it, leaving the middle a little thinner than the rest; trim the paste from the edges and notch them round; put in the curd and bake. The curd should be rubbed through a sieve with a little butter, and, when quite smooth, a few currants and sugar added. One or more yolks of eggs may be added, also cream, almonds, mace, nutmeg, etc. ; or lemon or orange juice, the rind rubbed on loaf sugar, or candied lemon peel. 435. Ground rice four ounces; new milk one pint and a half; butter four ounces; sugar four ounces; eggs four to six