I FRUIT. 65 and drain them on a sieve : add six more plums to the syrup for two minutes, remove them and drain them as before; remove the skins, and put the fruit in a basin; then reduce the syrup till rather thick, and when cold, pour it over the fruil, which will then be ready to be served. Other fruit may be treated in the same way. Peaches and apricots, when green, should be previously put into boiling water, and boiled ten minutes, then drained and stewed in the syrup till tender. Cherries need not be divided; cut the stalks short and stew two or three minutes. (<?.) Cut apples in small cubical pieces, strew 12 oz. of sugar over 16 oz. of fruit, also several long strips of lemon peel, and cover them up close in a bowl. Next day put the apples piece by piece into a small stew-pan with three or four table-spoonfuls of cider or perry, and simmer gently till the fruit becomes clear; then remove it, and when cold, build a wall round a small dish with the square pieces, place the strips of lemon peel on the top, and pour the syrup into the middle. Ehubarb or carrots may be used in the same way. (e.) Apples may be stewed with butter thus : Pare six or eight fine apples, core them without piercing them through, or dividing them; fill the cavities with fresh butter, and put four ounces more, cut small, into a stew-pan just large enough to contain the apples in a single layer; place them closely together and stew them very gradually, turning them occasionally; when nearly tender, strew upon them as much sifted sugar as will be sufiicient, and a tea- spoonful of powdered cinnamon, and stew for a few minutes longer. Put in or upon each apple a little apricot jam; pour the syrup from the pan around, but not upon the fruit. Apples thus prepared are called by the French Fommes au Beurre. (/.) After stewing fruit in water, remove it before it becomes quite soft or pulpy; then add to the liquid one-third of the sugar intended to be used, let it simmer ten minutes, skimming it well during the time ; then pour it over the fruit, hot if you wish the fruit to be soft, but cold if the fruit is to be crisp (78 c). On the following day, strain off the syrup and add to it another third of the sugar ; simmer and skim as before, then pour 5