SOUPS. 229 Method 1.—Put the prepared vegetables and the cold soft water (60) into a stewing jar, or pot-au-feu, cover it closely and place it in a very moderately heated oven ; or, put the whole in a stew-pan and raise the temperature gradually to the boiling point (say in thirty minutes) ;* skim the soup well, especially when it first begins to boil, or it cannot be rendered clear afterwards; a little salt thrown in will assist to bring the scum to the surface. As soon as the scum has been removed, put on the cover; keep the soup simmeiing gently but unceasingly, till all the ingre- dients which are soluble are quite tender or pulpy, which may require from one to six hours. When the vegetables are tough or fibrous, add a little soda to the water, especially if it be hard. If intended ps a foundation for thickened soup, pass the whole of the pulp, while hot, first through a colander, then through a fine sieve, add the thickening, seasoning, etc., and let the whole simmer ten minutes; but if intended to be used as a broth for clear soup, let it stand ten minutes after it has been removed from the fire, then without disturbing the sediment, pour the clear fluid into a basin, aud after it has stood two hours, or when it is as transparent as it is likely to become, pour the clear fluid into a stew-pan. Unless skimmed and carefully managed, it may require the addition of two or three whites of eggs beaten up and boiled in the soup, to make it clear (13). If two kinds of soup are required, a portion may be poured off for clear soup, and the remainder boiled a little longer for thickened soup. 486. Method 2.—Dissolve the butter in a stew-pan, add a tea-spoonful of brown sugar, then the sliced vegetables, cover them closely, and stew them very slowly till sofc and slightly browned, which may require from twenty-five to sixty minutes. Add the boiling water, bread, boiled peas, etc.; let the whole simmer, and skim it well; then add the seasoning, cover the pan closely, and continue the simmering gently for an hour and a half. Strain or decant as in No. 1. • By this means the albumen, fibrine, caseine, etc., of the vegetables ■will bi obtained in solution, but if the temperature be raised too rapidly, the fibres of the vegetables will be hardened, and the albumen coagulated. Rapid boiling carries off the volatile parts by evaporation.