180 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. fruit, with an ounce and a half of sugar, and two table-spoonfuls of water if required, and cover the fruit with six ounces of bread crumbs; upon these put another layer of fruit, sugar, and water, and cover smoothly with six ounces more of bread crumbs ; sift sugar over and bake about forty-five minutes at a moderate heat. It is advisable to cover the pudding with a plate or dish till about half cooked, to prevent the top from becoming too hard and dry. Creed grain, or biscuit, or tea-cake in crumbs, or mashed potatoes, macaroni, sago, etc., may be used instead of the bread crumbs. 303. Crumb of alight stale loaf, grated small, six ounces; pounded sugar seven ounces ;■ salt a quarter of a tea-spoonful; good baking apples pared, quartered and cored twenty ounces; iuice and grated rind of a lemon. Mix the bread-crumbs, salt, and three ounces of the sugar well together; arrange the apples in close layers ia a deep pie-dish which will hold about a pint and a half; strew amingst them the remaining four ounces of sugar, lemon rind and juice; sprinkle the bread crumbs lightly and evenly over the fruit, pressing them gently down upon it; sift powdered sugar over, wipe the edge of the dish, and bake the pudding in a rather quick oven about forty- five minutes or longer. Crumbs of bread may also be strewed between the layers of ^''^ 304 Good sized apples six, or about a pound and a half; butter three ounces; sugar four ounces; eggs two; breadcrumbs or biscuit grated, six ounces. Boil the apples as for sauce, stir in the butter and sugar and when rather cool add the eggs well beaten. Butter a puddmg- dishcoW; strew a layer of bread-crumbs to the thickness of an inch at the bottom of the dish, and as many as wi I adhere to the sides; pour in the mixture, strew crumbs over and bake. When baked turn the pudding out and sift sugar over it. I the juice and grafed rind of a lemon be added, a lit le more sugar will be required. The yolks of two more eggs may likewise Other fruits may be substituted for the apples. Instead of