78 TEGETAEIAN COOKERY. if.) Boil two quarts of amber gooseberries in two quarts of water till the juice has been well extracted; strain and add two pounds of fine sugar to two pints of the liquor; let it boil five minutes, and skim it till clear. Eemove it from the fire, and add carefully two pounds of raspberries; let them just boil up; then sprinkle over them a pound and a half of sugar previously heated in the oven ; boil them very fast for eight minutes, skimming them well. Eemove them from the fire, let them stand till nearly cold, then put them in pots. Strawberries may be preserved in the same way. {g.) For each pound of fruit, take half a pound of sugar, and put the latter in a pan with a little water; when the sugar is hot take up the fruit in a skimmer, dip it in' the sugar and hold it there about half a minute ; then remove it and spread it on tins, continuing the process till all the fruit is finished. Boil down the sugar to a thick syrup, and pour it over the fruit. Set the tins before the sun, or in a warm oven, till the fruit has been dried into gelatinous cakes. When thoroughly dry, put the cakes in a bag and hang it in a dry place. The cakes will keep a long time and may be used at any time by adding a little hot water for a few minutes; more sugar may be added, if necessary. The flavour of the fruit is preserved by this method, which answers well for strawberries, raspberries, blackberries, etc. (A.) Boil to a thick syrup, one pound of refined sugar, and a quarter of a pint of water for each pound of fruit. "When cold, put in the strawberries, and let them stand a night. Drain them, and boil the syrup up again three times, which will thicken it. Put the strawberries into the syrup each time when it is cold. "When finished, put them in glasses, over which tie paper, and set them in a.cold place. To Preserve Ripe Currants. 79. Remove them carefully from the stalks, and proceed according to method a, using eight ounces of sugar to a pound of fruit. Ripe Gooseberries. 80. These may be preserved either with or without the seeds. Boil them till clear and tender, in a syrup formed in the proper-