SAUCES. 239 minutes, add the cream, and as soon as tlie soup boils again remove and serve it, (c.) Into any clear boiling soup, as 491 witliout browning, bread, or seasoning, drop vermicelli, macaroni, or rice previously steeped in cold water for two hours. Milk or cream may be added, if required as a white soup. Or, after soaking and boiling the macaroni till tender, drain it, wash it in fresh water, lay it on a cloth, and cut it into short lengths, then add it to the strained soup; add also thickening and seasoning as may be required, and boil the whole ten minutes, then add the cream. Vermicelli may be treated in the same way without cutting it into lengths. (e.) "Wash and pare quickly some fresh artichokes, and to pre- serve their colour, throw each into spring water as soon as the skin is removed. Boil three pounds of them in water for ten minutes; remove them and slice them into three pints of boiling stock (489 or 491 ; stew them fifteen or twenty minutes, press them with the soup through a fine sieve, and put the whole into a clean saucepan with a pint and half of more stock; add salt and cayenne; skim the soup well, and after it has simmered two or three minutes stir to it a pint of rich boiling cream or milk. Serve immediately. (/.) Jerusalem artichokes two pounds; milk two quarts; butter one ounce; two yolks of eggs; cream five table spoonfuls. Prepare the artichokes as above and boil them in water till soft; pass them through a sieve; put the pulp into a pan with the milk and butter; season with pepper and salt; stir the soup over the fire till it boils; then let it stew gently till it is of the consistency of peas soup. Put the beaten yolks of eggs and cream in a tureen, then pour in the boiling soup and stir it till well mixed. Serve immediately. Sauces. 495. Sauces are liquid, semi-liquid, or pulpy preparations for the purpose of rendering food more palatable. Sauces may be arranged as follows: 1. Preserves, stewed fruits, or the juice of fruit. 2. Vinegars and their combinations. 3. Arrowroot, tapioca, etc. dissolved in water or milk. 4. Butter, flour, water, etc.