89 JELLIES. Raspberry juice one pint; white currant juice one quarter or one-third of a piut. Raspberry, red currant and white currant juice iu equal quantities. Red currant juice three pounds ; white currant juice one pound. Damson juice three pounds; buUace or other pale plum juice one pound. The juices should be extracted separately, and mixed just before the sugar is added. When one part of currant juice is added to three parts of straw- berry juice, the jelly will be firmer, and will require less boiling, but the flavour will not be so rich. The pulp which remains after straining off the juice may be made, by the addition of fresh fruit, into pies, jams, or fruit moulds, as directed for such preparations. The residuum of currants and other seedy fruit will require mixing with fresh raspberries, or other rich juicy fruit. Apple pul^ may be mixed with plums, etc. When a stiffer jelly is required than can be obtained from the juice of fruit alone, dissolve half an ounce of isinglass in half a pint of water, then add a half -pint jar of any kind of fruit jelly ; when quite dissolved, strain the whole through a jelly bag; then stir it till nearly cold and pour it iuto a mould. Orange Jelly. 101. Dissolve one ounce of isinglass in just sufficient water to cover it. Rub off the yellow rind of four gond oranges on sugar, and scrape the sugar into the isinglass, adding a small piece of cinnamon. Simmer the Avhole over a slow fire, stirring it frequently. Squeeze and strain the juice of oranges till you have a pint and a third, also the juice of a small lemon. Mix these together, with clarified sugar sufficient to sweeten the juice, add it to the isinglass, and when the whole boils it is ready, Strain it through a fine sieve and put it in nioulds; any portion that remains may be put iu glasses when it is cold. Lemon Jelly may be made in the same way, but omit the cinnamon and add more sugar. Other fruits may be employed in the same manner. In general, isinglass one ounce ; sugar in syrup twelve ounces ; fruit one pound. The fruit should be infused in the syrup.