40 VEGETARIAN COOK.EET. cultivation in England did not become general till about 1760. When in good condition and cooked by boiling, potatoes form a nutritious and easily digestible article of diet, though they con- tain little nitrogen, their principal ingredient being starch. As ordinarily cooked, or sliced raw into vinegar, potatoes are an admirable preservative against scurvy; this is probably dae to the presence of cit)-ic acid. Bright's Universal Sanative Breakfast Beverage appears to be a mixture of potato-starch and chocolate. Jerusalem Artichokes.—Natives of Brazil, brought to Eng- land in 1617. They contain about 15 per cent, of sugar, 77 per cent, of water, and small portions of inuline, gum, albumen, fixed oil, etc. They are much relished by some persons, either boiled, roasted, or used in soups, and are considered wholesome and nutritious. Dioscorea Batatas, or Cbinese Yam, is being introduced into France and England, and is said to be likely to supersede the potato. Salsafy, or Goat's Beard; Tragopogon pon-ifalius. — Roots long, white and fleshy, tapering like the parsnep; flavour mild and sweetish. The roots may be' boiled and dressed like aspa- ragus ; and the flower-stalks, if cut in spring on the second year before they become hard, make a good dish, dressed as asparagus. "When the roots are fried they are said to resemble smelts in flavour. See 222. Seorzonera, or Viper's Grass ; Scorzonera Hispanica.—A hardy perennial, with a stem from two to three feet long. The roots are black externally, white and fleshy within, and sweet in taste, especially when cooked. Previously to being cooked they should be scraped and steeped in water, to remove their bitter quality, Rampions; Campanula rapunculus.—Roots long, white and spindle shaped. They are indigenous, and are eaten raw like a radish, having a pleasant nutty flavour. Hamburg parsley [Apiumpctrosilinicm, var. Tuberosum.)—Roots cooked as parsneps. Radishes; Raphanus sativus.—These do not contain much nutriment. "When boiled they are more digestible than when