CUSTAKDS, BLANC-MANGES, PRUIT CREAMS, ETC. 205 buttered mould or basin one hour. Let the custard stand five minutes before it is turned out. Serve with fruit syrup, etc., or fruit. The mixture may be made entirely of whites of eggs if more convenient. Blanc-Mange. 394. Milk half a pint; cream half a pint; rind of half a lemon, or a little cinnamon, or one or two laurel leaves, or two or three bitter almonds, blanched and bruised ; one or two ounces of sugar, and from half an ounce to an ounce of isinglass. Boil the seasoning a few minutes in the milk, then remove them; but it is preferable to rub the lemon rind with pieces of lump sugar, and then add them to the milk; stir in the cream, isinglass, etc., and stir the whole over the fire till the isinglass is dissolved. Strain the blanc-mange into a bowl, stir it till nearly cold, then turn it into a mould and let it cool. Isinglass and gelatine, though generally employed, are objec- tionable in Vegetarian cookery; their place, therefore, is frequently supplied by ground rice, arrowroot, carrageen moss, etc., but they are somewhat deficient in firmness, and the blanc-mange made with them is subject to become watery after standing some time. Ground Rice Blanc-Mange, 395. Milk one pint; ground rice two ounces; sugar two ounces ; lemon peel, cinnamon, or other seasoning. Boil the milk, seasoning, etc., as above; mix the rice with a little cold milk, and rub it till quite smooth, add it to the boiling milk, and stir it while over the fire till quite thick; pour it into a mould, and when cold turn it out. Serve it with a little cream and sugar, or decorate it with sweet-meats. Arrowroot and tapioca may be prepared in the same way. Or, two-thirds ground rice, and one-third arrowroot. 396. When carrageen moss is used, wash and steep from half to three quarters of an ounce in water for three minutes; take it out and shake the water from each piece, then boil the moss in a quart of milk, or milk and cream, until it attains the consistency