VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 38 taking care that it is not exposed to too great a heat. When quite dry and in a fine powder, bottle it for use. Potatoes yield about one-fourth or one-fifth their weight of starch. Potato starch is used for imitating tapioca, arrow-root, etc. In tapioca, the starch globules are spherical, very small, equal in volume, and resemble those in wheat starch. The globules of arrow-root are small, elliptical, pearly, or translucent. Wheat starch exhibits a glistening appearance. Potato starch bas the appearance as if densely studded with minute globules of mercury, large and elliptical in form, but somewhat smaller than those of tous-ies-mois. 35. Inuline.—There is a peculiar modification of starch in the tubers of the Jerusalem artichoke, dahlia, and many similar plants, which has been called inuline. It contains a rather smaller proportion of carbon than common starch. It is extracted from the roots by washing the rasped root in a sieve and allowing the inuline to settle, or by boiling the sliced roots in water and filtering while hot; the inuline separates as the solution cools, and is deposited as a brittle white mass, formed of crystalline grains, or as a fine powder. It is tasteless, insoluble in cold, very soluble in hot wati r. 36. Lichenine.—'T\n.% is another variety of starch, found in Cetraria Islandica, or Iceland Moss. It may be purified from a bitter principle by a little cold solution of potassa. When pure, it forms a nearly colourless, tasteless mats, which swells up into a transparent jelly with cold water, and dissolves entirely in hot water. It is precipitated by alcohol, and when its solu- tion is boiled, it forms pellicles like milk, which adLere to the vessel. 37. Salep, Salop, or Saloop.—This is obtained from Orchis masculata and other orchideous plants, by pulverizing the bulbs. It has a dingy yellowish-white colour, resembling dark-coloured gum arable in a state of powder. Its taste is very similar to that of gum tragacanih, and it adheres to the teeth when chewed. ^ It requires for its solution a large quantity of water; about sixty parts of boiling water beirg necessary to dissolve one of salep, and