VEGETAHIAN COOKERY. 32 Oatmeal is prepared by grinding the kiln-dried seeds deprived of their husk and outer skin. It is of two kinds, coarse or Scotch oatmeal, and fine oatmeal. Cakes, etc., prepared from the former, do not assume a starchy consistence. Oatmeal is rich in fibrine, and contains more fatty matter than any other of our cereal grains; hence, it is very nutritious and wholesome. "When it disagrees with the dyspeptic, it should be macerated for a few hours in cold water, and occasionally stirred. When long macerated, sowens or flummery is formed from it. 24. Sarley.—This grain has been found wild in Sicily and Russia. It is generally cultivated in northern countries, and will grow in a climate where wheat would not arrive at perfection. The husk is slightly acrid, and when it has been removed, the grain is c&\hi Scotch, hulled, or pot-harley. When all the integuments have been removed, and the seeds rounded and polished, they constitute pearl barley, and the flour obtained from it is called patent barley. Count Rtjmford considered barley, when used for soup, much more valuable than any other grain. *' It is astonishing," says he, "how much water a small quantity of barley-meal will thicken, and change to the consistency of jelly : and if my suspi- cious with regard to the part which water acts fn nu*^rition are well founded, this will enable us to account, not only for the nutritive quality of barley, but also for the same quality in a still higher degree which sago and saloap are known to possess." Scotch or hulled barley makes excellent puddings, either alone or with rice; it requires more boiling than rice. The Roman gladiators were named hordcarii, because hordeum (barley) formed a large proportion of their food. Barley is considered more laxative than the other cereal grains. Eordeum hexastichon, winter barley or bigff, is cultivated chiefly in the north of England and Scotland. It is more palatable than that of the long-eared barley from a rich soil; and the barley cakes made from it in the Highlands are particularly sweet and delicate. Barley-meal is sometimes mixed with oatmeal for making porridge, which is considered much better than when made with oatmeal alone. 25. ■ iJye.—Rye-meal can be formed into raised bread, as it contains a sufficient quantity of gluten for that purpose, but not so