12 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. honey; it is also prepared on tlie large scale from starcli. The sugar obtained by evaporating the sweet juices of plants which have an acid reaction will not crystallize, in consequence of small quantities of the organic acids uniting with the sugar, as already remarked. Glucose crystallizes with two atoms of water in wart-like masses, consisting of minute plates arranged in a cauliflower-form, as is sometimes found in long-kept currant-jelly, and other preserves. It is white, devoid of odour, and not so sweet as cane- sugar, but sweeter than milk-sugar; it is only half as soluble in water as cane-sugar, but more soluble than milk-sugar. At a few degrees below 100° it begins to cake together, but it melts per- fectly at 100° with the loss of its two atoms of water; at 140° it becomes converted into caramel, and develops a sweetish odour. In contact with nitrogenous bodies, and especially with caseine, it undergoes the lactic, and subsequently the butyric fermentation: and with common yeast it passes into the state of vinous fermen- tation. Molasses or treacle, formed during the process of refining cane- sugar, contains grape-sugar ; it also contains the products of the decomposition of sugar by alkalies. Glucic and melassic adds are also found in treacle. Eonct) coUected from the nectaries of flowers by the working bees, is a mixture of cane and grape sugar. Sugar of Milk.—m\\ generally contains about 5 per cent, of sugar but the mQk of carnivorous animals contains none. When milk is exposed to a temperature of from 90° to 104°, it under- goes the vinous fermentation. During the process, sugar disap- pears, alcohol is formed in the liquid, and carbonic acid is diseno-ao-ed. It is probable, however, that before fermenting, the suo-ar^of milk is converted into grape-sugar, for the fermentation do°es not begin till the milk has curdled, that is, till an acid has been formed, and this acid may be the cause of the conversion of the sugar of milk into grape-sugar. Sugar is exceedingly nutritious; it imparts fulness to the pulse, a higher colour to the skin, and force and vigour to the human frame It is an aliment proper for children, old people, convalescents, and persons sufifering from debility ; it is also very efficacious in inci-