106 VEGETARIAN COOKEET. tand. Bake in a very hot oyen, or frying pan. Place each on edge before the fire to harden. It will keep in a dry place three or four months. (c.) Oat-cakes, made with a batter composed of oatmeal and water, raised with a little yeast, and baked on a bakestone, are excellent as prepared in Cumberland and the West Riding of Yorkshire. They are extremely thin, and if not toasted and buttered when recently baked, are dried and eaten in a crisp state. Cakes baked on a flag or stone, set for that purpose, or in a frying pan, are frequently called bakestone cakes. Of these there are several kinds. 1. Water-cakes.—Flour made into a paste with water, a little salt being added. 2. Cream-cakes.—Cream or cream with milk is used for these instead of water. 3. Short-cakes.—Mas. flour, butter, etc., as for pastry (186). The paste of each kind must be rolled out very thin, and then baked on a bakestone, or in a frying pan. A few currants are sometimes added. BiSCTTITS. 123. This term is derived from bis, twice, and cuit, baked, and is generally employed to designate thin, hard cakes, made of flour and water ; it is also applied to richer compounds of flour, butter, sugar, cream, eggs, etc. {a.) Take coarse wheat meal, Indian meal, fine flour, rice flour, oatmeal, or a mixture of two of these, and make it into a stiff paste with water, skimmed milk, new milk, or cream. The dough for hard biscuits should be kept in a loose and crumbly state until the whole is of an equal consistence ; then rub, work, or press it together with the hands, till the whole is formed into a mass. The dough should be beaten out as thin as possible with a paste-roller, or biscuit-lever; fold it in two or three, and cover it with a damp cloth till you beat it out again. Givino- the dough too many folds before it is rolled or beaten out very^thin, causes it to be tough, in which state it will shrink or draw up ; unless the paste be allowed to rest a short time after it has had a turn or two, the surface will crack, and little