238 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. spoonful of salt, and a little wtite pepper or cayenne. When partially cooked drain them from the butter, put them to a stock made of a quart of fully grown green peas boiled, drained, pounded, and then stewed in five pints of the liquor in which they were boiled. Simmer the soup till all the butter has been cleared off, then add half or three quarters of a pint of young peas boiled as for eating. (e.) Green beans one quart; spinach one handful; parsley one ounce; butter two ounces; vegetable broth two quarts ; a little flour, pepper, and salt. Boil the beans, skin, and bruise them ; add the water or broth, butter, flour and seasoning, and the vegetables previously boiled till soft. Stir the soup till it boils, and pass it through a sieve. (/.) Green beans one quart; one leaf of garden sorrel; boil them in plenty of water and pulp them through a sieve ; put them in a stew-pan with sufficient of the water in which they have been boiled; add one ounce of butter; half a spoonful of salt; a quarter of a spoonful of sugar; a quarter of a tea-spoonful of pepper; a little tarragon, and the quarter of a flower of the French marigold. Boil the soup twenty minutes and serve. (fl.) White and other Soups. 494. (a.) Pumpkins or vegetable marrow two pounds, cut in large dice; butter three or four ounces; salt and sugar two tea-spoonfuls of each ; pepper a quarter of a tea-spoonful; water half a pint. Stew gently for twenty minutes. When in pulp add two table- spoonfuls of flour and three pints of milk gradually, stirring the whole well during the mixing. An onion sliced may be stewed with the marrow. (b.) Almonds two ounces; new milk one pint and a half; cream half a pint; flour one table-spoonful; one onion; one head of celery; butter one ounce. Blanch and chop the almonds small, boil them gently one hour along with the onion and the white part of the celery in one pint of the milk; remove the onion and celery; mix the flour and butter together; add half a pint of milk, a little cayenne, mace, and salt; stir the soup over the fire till it has boiled a few