52 VEGETAEIAN COOKEHY. formed what is called un hit de poule, which is a pleasant mixture, and very useful in colds and affections of the chest; it is usually taken at bed time. Eggs lightly boiled are nutritive, and easy of digestion, when taken in moderation; but when taken in excess, they cause indigestion and constipation ; if long boiled, or otherwise exposed to much heat, they are digested with much more difficulty. ' For light cakes, souffles, and other light puddings, eggs should be quite fresh, but they should not have been laid less than eight or ten hours. When great lightness is required, as for sponge cake, etc., some persons recommend that only half as many whites be employed as yolks, believing that the whites render cakes and puddings heavy; but this will not be the case if the yolks and whites are well beaten separately ; it is probable, however, that a cake will become too dry unless some of the whites be omitted. When eggs are employed for the sole purpose of enriching the mixture with'albumen, the yolks and whites need not be sepa- rated ; in all other cases they should be beaten apart from each other, and the speck should be removed from each egg as soon as it has been broken. 54. To Whisk or Beat Eggs.—Wh'i&k the yolks till they appear light, and the whites gently at first, till they form a strong froth, capable of sustaining a half-crown or an egg, So long as any liquid remains at the bottom of the vessel, the whites must be longer beaten. When a portion taken up with the whisk and dropped from it remains standing in points, it is in a proper state for souffles, etc, and should be mixed with the other ingredients immediately. Some confectioners beat the white of eggs before the fire, to render it lighter; others whisk the eggs and sugar over a slow fire till rather more than new milk-warm; then remove the pan from the fire, and whisk them till cold. These methods may hasten the process a little, but the lightness is likely to be more durable by beating the white of egg over cold water, or even over ice. Hot mixtures do not keep so well as those made cold; they become dry and stale sooner, but they make more biscuits and cakes if properly beaten. Some recommend the following method: — Eggs should be beaten in a flat-bottomed earthen pan, with wooden rods ; keep