245 SAUCES. ' Tapioca Sauce. 509. Tapioca one ounce; water one pint; loaf sugar four ounces; a little lemon peel. Simmer the tapioca in the water one or two hours or until it is dissolved and clear; add the sugar and seasoning, and pour the sauce over a baked or boiled pudding. (4.) Btjttee, Floue, "Water, Etc. Butter Sauce or Melted Butter. 510. {a.) Put a large tea-spoonful of flour and a little salt in a basin, and mix with these very gradually till quite smooth a quarter of a pint of cold water; put them in a small clean sauce- pan and shake or stir them constantly over a clear fire till they have simmered two minutes; then add an ounce and a half of butter cut in small pieces; stir the sauce till the butter is quite dissolved; let it simmer one minute, then serve it quickly. It should be of the consistency of good cream. (5.) Or, put two ounces of butter and a large tea-spoonful of flour into a saucepan ; set it on the hob at a little distance from the fire, and leave it till it;is of the consistency of thick cream ; then mix the flour and butter together with a spoon, and pour to it one-third of a pint of boiling water, stirring it well together; set it over the fire, let it boil up, and immediately pour it into the sauce tureen. {e.) Or, butter two ounces; flour two ounces; salt half a tea- spoonful ; pepper one quarter of a tea-spoonful; cold water one pint. Arrowroot, potato-starch, etc., may be substituted for the flour. A spoonful or two of milk may supply the place of the same quantity of the water; to enrich the sauce add more butter. Two table-spoonfuls of ketchup added instead of the same quantity of milk, will make a good mushroom sauce. Butter, either from its bad quality or from boiling, sometimes runs to oil; when this is the case put a spoonful of cold water to it, and stir it with a wooden spoon, or pour it several times from the stew-pan to the saucepan and back; if this fails, add a little salt of tartar (kept in a well stopped bottle for the purpose) and stir or shake the whole well.