9 ALIMENTARY TKINCIPLES. (a.) The Aqueous Alimentary Principle. A very large proportion of the human hody is aqueous. The blood contains about 80 per cent., the flesh about 74 per cent, of water. It is not improbable that water is decomposed in the animal system, and that its elements, oxygen and hydrogen, assist in the formation of organized tissues. It also combines chemically with certain substances, and converts them into others, as starch into sugar of milk. It is probable also that by its aid uric acid is changed into urea. Water, therefore, is an important agent both in health and disease. A draught of water an hour or two after a meal assists the solution and absorption of the contents of the stomach. Water increases the interstitial metamorphosis of tissue, and consequently favours the loss of weight; but the metamorphosis of tissue is life, or an inseparable part of life, and there is reason to believe that where it goes on quickly, and there is the possibility of a supply of new matter equal to the exhaustion of the old, the tissue changed is in a more perfect state, and more able to resist external noxious influences. The efl"ect of water on the secretions is determined by the cir- cumstances under which it is taken. If taken when a person is inactive and exposed to cold, it acts as a diuretic ; if in bed, while surrounded with warm blankets, as a diaphoretic ; if followed by steady and gentle exercise, as a purgative. Water is said to have as many degrees of hardness as each gallon contains grains of chalk. It is found by experiment that one gallon (weighing 70,000 grains) of pure water will not dissolve more than two grains of chalk, by which it would acquire two degrees of hardness. Whenever more than two grains is contained in a gallon of water, the excess is owing to the presence of carbonic acid gas, which enables it to dissolve a much larger quantity. The carbonic acid gas may be in part expelled from water by heating the latter to the boiling point. Nearly the whole disappears at the end of half an hour's boiling, and the chalk is deposited. Soft Avater may, therefore, be obtained by boiling hard water during several hours before it is required. Or add as much pow- dered oxalate of ammonia as will lie on a sixpence to a kettle of boiling water ; this salt is preferable to subcarbonate of soda when