114 VEGETAKIAN COOKERY- Leaven Bread. 126. Flour or meal eight pounds; leaven three ounces; warm water one pint. Mix and hake as at 115 c. Bread fermented with Yeast. 127 This kind of hread is decidedly most esteemed, and since it is so generally used, forming a part of nearly every meal, it is of great importance that it should he always well made. Uniform success may he attained hy attending to the instructions given respecting the flour, (120), yeast, and fluid, (125), mixing, kneading, and fermenting (115 d). Flour or meal eight pounds; a-ood fresh yeast two large tahle spoonfuls, or German yeast two ounces ;* water or milk, or a mixture of both, three a half or four TDints; salt a dessert spoonful or more if preferred (56) Mix, ferment, and knead, as at 115 d. The pans or tins in which the loaves are baked, should be rubbed with a little butter before the douffh is put in, that the loaves may leave the pans more readUy Itr baking Let the loaves stand fifteeu or twenty minutes m pans bete they are put into the oven, which should be well heated When sufficiently baked, remove the loaves ^.m the Ins and turn them on their sides, or upside down, till cold other- the under part of the loaves will be wet and blistered m : sequent oMhe steam not escaping. The whole meal absorbs Ze liquid and requires rather more yeast, or a onger time TrTse Aan fine flour. Dough formed of coarse meal should no I so stiff as when formed of fine flour; if it be too soft aLTitti rS^, add a little more meal; it also requires a hotter nven and should remain in it longer. _ 128 When brown bread is preferred rather moist, mix rye .1 with the wheat meal; or pour a pint of boiling water upon Tthi d f tlTe wheat meal; stir it till it forms a thick paste, XrdWide into small portions to cool; then knead i exceed- , diviQ .^i^ two-thirds of the meal, adding the "''I at'the temperature of 80° or 90°. The ToSLrtardisscfves a portion of the starch, and this prevents ;i.Tbread from becoming dry. See 131. . Tutt^e experience and attention will n.aUe a less quantity of yeast answer better.