ANIMAL PRODUCTS. 165 4 Roll out some good light paste about one-eiglitli of an mch thick • cut it in pieces two or three inches broad, and four or five lono-; between two of these lay slices of good toasting cheese; clos°e the paste at the sides and ends, and bake in a quick oven They may be served either hot or cold. These have been called "cheese-turnovers." _ 5. Boil two ounces of macaroni, or rice, in a pint of milk till tender; drain the milk from it, and put the macaroni or rice in a well buttered dish, over three ounces of grated cheese; lay some pieces of butter upon it; cover it with grated cheese and toast the whole. A layer of bread crumbs may be put over the macaroni before the cheese. A little cream may also be added. See 108. 6. Macaroni four ounces; milk one pint; ground rice a large table-spoonful; cheese grated or in thin slices four ounces; butter half an ounce; cayenne, grated nutmeg, and salt, a little of each. Boil the macaroni in the milk till tender, then add the rice pre- viously mixed with a little cold milk or water ; stir it well, then add the cheese, butter, pepper, etc. When the whole has been well mixed, and the milk has been absorbed ; put it in a buttered dish; strew bread crumbs and a few small pieces of butter over it, and brown it with a salamander or in an oven. It should be-con- stantly stirred during the boiling. Cheese, Orated Bread, etc. 270. {a.) Cheese grated four ounces; crumb of bread two to four ounces ; butter one to four ounces; yolks of eggs one to four; cream or milk one cupful. Pour the boiling milk upon the bread crumbs, and, when nearly cold, add the cheese and butter; beat the whole well, and boil it gently till smooth; let it stand till rather cool, then stir in the eggs previously beaten. {b.) Grated cheese four ounces; butter four ounces; yolks of eggs four; inside of a small French roll boiled in cream till soft. Beat all these to a paste in a mortar; mix the paste with the whites of four eggs previously beaten. (c.) Cheese eight ounces; butter two ounces. Put them in a stew-pan, and stir them over a stove or gentle fire till quite melted. Remove the mixture from the fire, and stir in till thoroughly mixed six yolks of eggs, and a little cream.