253 PICKLES. Pickles. 535. 1. Pickles are various vegetables preserved in vinegar. They are eaten as a zest rather than as food, and are generally considered difficult of digestion. Good vinegar is absolutely necessary to success in pickling. The method of proceeding depends upon the nature of the vegetables; if of a hot nature, neither requiring spices, nor to be softened by heat, as capsicums, chili, nasturtiums, button-onions, radish-pods, horseradish, garlic, and eschalots, all that is requisite is to half fill a jar with good vinegar, then add the vegetables, and tie down with bladder or sheet gutta percha. 2. Heat the vinegar and spice and pour them hot over the vegetables to be pickled, which should be previously prepared by sprinkling them with salt or immersing them in brine ; the vinegar must not be boiled, or it will lose strength by evaporation. This method is applicable to gherkins, French beans, cabbages, broccoli, cauliflowers, onions, etc. 3. The third method is used when the vegetables require to be softened by heat, as walnuts, artichoke bottoms, beet root, and sometimes onions and cauliflowers. In the two last methods, which include the common practice of pickling, it is necessary that the substance of the vegetables should be penetrated by the vinegar. Since all vegetables abound with their peculiar juices, which, if mixed with the vinegar, would dilute it too much, it is necessary in the first place to throw salt upon the vegetables, which to a certain degree combines with and extracts their juices; or the vegetables may be boiled in a strong brine of common salt. This process may be facilitated, as in the case of walnuts, cucumbers, and others which are covered with a thick skin, by penetrating them with a rather strong needle, so that the action of the salt may be more immediate and penetrating. The loss of the natural juice will be supplied by the vinegar they will imbibe. The brine usually employed before pouring on the vinegar consists of six ounces of salt to one quart of water; or the solution may be made sufficiently strong to float an egg ; it should be boiled five minutes and skimmed.