TO MA.SH ROOTS, TUBERS, ETC. 151- n nr,-n a Datchoven, or cheese toaster; turn ttiem occasion- rCdtaLc::ft^^^ not charred or burnt before they are wl i heated throu<^h. A small piece of skm may be cut off ;~nd te remaining skin rubbed over with butter to make 'Yait potatoes require about two hours; large beet root from fou^ to'siAours. When in haste, half boil, the tubers and ake ff th bin skin before roasting them. Potatoes are improved by blrroasted in wood-ashes. They may also be pared, put on a tTno dS, witl.two or three sliced onions, a little butter and Hr%ni then a little flour dredged over them, baked in an oven,'and served with brown sauce (516). To Fur EooTS, Tubeks, etc. 231 See 66. Wash, pare, and cut them in slices less than a Quarter of an inch thick; or into thin shavings or ribbons, by paring round them in a spiral direction; put them into boiling butter or oil, fry them crisp, and when of a light colour, to a fine brown; lift them with a skimmer, drain them on a soft wm cloth, sprinkle a little salt over them and serve them hot. A little white pepper or cayenne may be added. 232 Or, boil the tubers till nearly tender, dram the water from them, and let them stand till cool; pare and slice them, sprinkle a little salt and pepper over them; dip them m batter or in a strong jelly of bran tea, or in egg, and then sprinkle them with bread crumbs; or dredge them with flour, or pease meal, or add bread crumbs and parsley chopped fine, and fry them as above. They may be served with fried onions and brown sauce, or put between two pieces of bread as a sandwich. Cold potatoes, etc., may be sliced and fried as above. Cauliflowers are excellent when boiled till tender, then the sprics are separated and allowed to cool; dipped twice m batter inad°e with a table-spoonful of flour, two table spoonfuls of milk, and one egg well beaten, and fried. Broccoli, etc., in the same way. (261). To Mash Hoots, Tubeks, etc. 233. Boil, steam, or bake them till tender; pour off the