VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 164 between two pieces of bread as sandwiches; some add mnstard and cayenne. WTien not used immediately, it may be pressed well down in a jar, and covered with clarified butter. Slewed Cheese. 268. 1. Dissolve slices of cheese with a little butter, pepper, etc., over steam or otherwise. Serve on soft toast. 2. Cut the cheese into slices of a moderate thickness, and put them into a tinned saucepan, with a little butter and cream. Simmer the whole very gently till the cheese is well dissolved; remove it from the fire, and allow it to cool; then for every four ounces of cheese add two or more yolks of eggs well beaten; trim the whole into any required form, and brown it before the fire, or witb a salamander. Cheese thus prepared may be rendered either sweet or savoury, and eaten either hot or cold. 3. Grated cheese four ounces ; new milk one quarter of a pint; butter half an ounce or more, as the cheese may require; stew the whole till quite smooth ; when cold mix it with a well beaten egg; put it on a dish and brown it as above. 4. Stew four middle sized onions in a pint of water t^ll quite soft; then add four ounces of sliced or grated cheese, and two or three ounces of butter; stir the whole over the fire for one minute, after the cheese has been added. Toasted Cheese. 269. 1. Toast a slice of bread on both sides, and butter it; toast a slice of cheese ou one side, and lay that side next the bread, then toast the other side with a salamander. 2 Cut some onions in two, and boil about four ounces of them, changing the water once; chop them and put them in the oven with a little pepper, salt, and butter, and stew them till tender. Spread them upon a dish, and cover them with eight ounces of cheese, in thin slices; toast the whole rather quickly, and serve it hot. Add a little butter, cream, etc., when the cheese requires it. 3 Half cook the onions, then chop them and mix them with thin slices of cheese in alternate layers, and toast the whole before the fire. A little butter, milk, etc., may be added as above.