VEGETAEIAN COOKERY. 94: and core three apples, put them in a stew-pan with three slices of red beet and a pint of water ; stew the apples and beet till tender, and mash them up with a little butter and sugar. Put the rice on a dish, make a hole in the centre, into which put the apple. Pour over the rice a small quantity of sauce made with a little cream, butter, and sugar. Macaroni. 108. "Wash it twice in cold water ; drop it into boiling water containing a little salt and half an ounce of butter. Let the water boil slowly till the macaroni is rather tender, but still a little firm to the touch ; this may require three quarters of an hour or more; then drain the water from it by means of a colander. It will now be ready for soup, puddings, or to be dressed with cheese, etc. (a.) Macaroni eight ounces, water one quart, salt one tea-spoon- ful, butter half an ounce. It may be put back into the pan with four ounces of scraped cheese or more, a little butter, salt, and pepper; toss it well together and serve. Or make a thick white sauce with flour, milk, and" cream, to which add the cheese and boiled macaroni; shake the whole whilst it is heated over the fire, but do not use a spoon, as it will mash the macaroni. (c.) Macaroni four ounces, milk and water in equal quantities one quart, cheese two ounces. Wash the macaroni well in two waters, then put it into the warm milk and water, and stew it for about two hours; add a little butter, cream, salt and cayenne, and ihe cheese grated or sliced; mix all well together, and stir the mix- ture over the fire till the cheese is dissolved; then pour it on a dish, cover it with thinly sliced cheese, and brown it with a salamander. Macaroni thus prepared is excellent. Sweet Macaroni. 108*. Drop four ounces of washed and soaked macaroni into a pint and half of boiling milk; add a few grains of salt and a few thin strips of orange or lemon peel, or cinnamon. Boil very gently till the macaroni is rather tender, add two or three ounces