PIES, TARTS, PASTIES, ETC. 211 A quarter of a pound of sugar will generally be sufficient for a quart of fruit. When pies are made of green gooseberries, apples, or rhubarb, it is advisable to clarify the sugar, that is, to boil it in a little water, but water should not be poured into the pie for this purpose. ^ The parings and cores of apples and pears may be stewed in a little water, and the strained liquor poured through a small funnel into the pie when it has been baked. All pies made with summer fruit, cranberries, or winter pre- serves, will be improved by the addition of apples pared and sUced. When apples are mixed with jam, they should be sliced thin; and if syrup be wanted, a few slices should be boiled with a little of the jam in sugar and water. Fruits preserved with sugar should be added after the crust has been baked; a cover may be baked for them. A little sago or tapioca is a pleasant addition to rhubarb • it should be scattered between the fruit. Those who prefer much flavour in their fruit pies, may add lemon peel, cinnamon, nutme» marmalade, etc. The above directions for fruit pies will be sufficient without a special recipe for each kind of fruit. Stveet Mince-meat for Cakes and Pies. _ 417. Flour four ounces ; butter two or three ounces • su<^ar SIX ounces; candied orange or lemon peel one ounce'and°a half;_ currants ten ounces; cinnamon a quarter of an ounce • allspice quarter of an ounce. 418._ The crumbs of stale savoy or pound cake, and of sweet biscuits ; add chopped apples, currants, candied peels ■ mixed spices; a little butter and sugar, juice and yellow rind of lemon, the latter rubbed upon sugar, or a little essence of lemon moisten the whole with a little raspberry jam, or treacle 419 Apples peeled, cored, and chopped fine, sixteen ounces but er twelve ounces; lemon, orange, and citron peels mixed twelve ounces; sugar six ounces; a small nutmeg and other spices Currants sixteen ounces, and raisins chopped fine four ounces may be added. The butter in the above receipts should be beaten to a cream, or