PASTRY FOR PIES, PUDDINGS, ETC. 137 ceed in making it. There would be fewer complaints against pastry if less butter and other fatty matters were employed in forming it, and were it not used in connection with animal food, as in meat pies. Another Good Crust. 188. Put some light white bread into a basin, and add a pint of boiling milk; let it remain closely covered till cold; rub a little butter in, and as much flour as will render it of proper consistency ; add a little salt, mix the whole together, and roll it out as required. 189. Or, flour sixteen ounces; butter three ounces; white and yolk of an egg well beaten; yeast one table-spoonful. Warm the butter in half a pint of new milk, let it stand till lukewarm, mix well all together, and let the dough stand to rise; roll it out and bake as quickly as possible. Fastry for Raised Fies, 190. Use more water and less butter than in 186, say from two to four ounces of the butter. Dissolve the butter in the water, break the eggs, yolks and whites, into the flour ; then skim the butter from the top of the water and mix it with the flour, adding as much of the water as is requisite to make a stiff paste ; work the whole till quite firm and smooth; put it into an earthen pan or bowl, covered close, and set it before tho fire lor ten or fifteen minutes; if the paste appears too soft dredge to it a little flour, and work it smooth. Take as much of the paste as is re- quired, mould it into the shape of a sugar loaf, flatten and smooth the sides with the palms of the hands, then press the middle of the point down to half the height of the paste ; form it into a proper shape by pressing it with the fingers, and make the cylindrical side of equal thickness throughout. Put in the ingredients, roll out the paste for the top, and join it well with white of egg. As a protection, the pie may be surrounded with writing paper before it is beked. (4.) Puff Paste. 191. Flour sixteen ounces; butter eight to twelve ounces; yolks of eggs four; water less than half a pint; or cream six to eight spoonfuls. Mix according to No. 3, for short crust.