206 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. of warm jelly, or until sufficiently thick to retain the shape of the mould.* Strain it through a muslin bag and season as above. For jelly, boil the moss in water, strain without pressure, add the usual seasoning but no eggs (8, 44). Bread and biscuit jelly, see 207. 397. Line a mould with any kind of preserves, or a mixture of them ; soak sponge cake in hot custard, and put it over the preserve ; then pour over it a thin blanc-mange to bind the whole together ; when cold turn it out of the mould. Fruit Creams, etc. 398. Gooseberries,' apples, or rhubarb peeled and cut, two pints. Stew the fruit with a very little water (68), and pulp it through a sieve or colander ; add about half a pound of sugar. Beat the yolks of two eggs with a quart of milk ; heat it gently over a slow fire, till it begins to simmer ; then stir it by degrees to the fruit, and serve it when cold. Cream, or milk and cream, may be used without eggs, and a little cinnamon, nutmeg, lemon peel, or other seasoning may be simmered with the milk when preferred. Some use a little perry or cider in stewing the fruit. This preparation has received the appellation of gooseberry fool, etc. 399. Mash strawberries, raspberries, or other pulpy fruit gently, strew a little sugar over it, and let it drain through a sieve without pressure. Add sugar, cream, and a little milk if required. Beat the whole lightly in a bowl, and as the froth is formed lay it on the back of a sieve, pour the cream into glasses, and lay the froth on the top. Jam or jelly may be used instead of fresh fruit; six ounces to a pint of cream, adding also the juice of a lemon. Instead of fruit use two ounces of sweet almonds, blanched and beaten to a paste (57), a pint of cream, three ounces of sugar, and the juice of two lemons. Beat the whole and proceed as above. 400. Preserved fruit or jam passed through a sieve two ounces ; currant jelly two ounces; powdered loaf sugar two ounces; the whites of two or three eggs. Beat the whole up • Some recommend it to be boiled from two to four hours.