72 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. must remain till the water has become gradually cold. Place the bottles on their sides in a cool, dry place; turn them partially round once or twice a week during the first month or two, and once or twice a month for some time afterwards. Green peas may be bottled in the same way. (a.) Matet, a French chemist, says the temperature of fruits or their juices in bottles, etc., should be raised to 184°, which he found by his researches sufficient to destroy their ferment. Some raise the temperature of the water in which the bottles are placed to 170°, and keep it at this point for an hour; others allow the water to simmer, and then immediately remove the bottles if the fruit is ripe, but leave them in ten minutes longer if it is green. (5.) Mr. LovEjoY, who produced beautiful specimens of pre- served fruit bsfore the Horticultural Society, proceeds as follows : —Pick the fruit from the stalks; put them into the bottles. Put one drachm of alum into four gallons of boiling water; let it stand till it is cold. Then fill the bottles; bung them tight; then put them- into a copper of cold water, and heat it to 176°. Then tie them over with a bladder and seal them. The raspberries and mulberries preserved in this manner -.vere as plump and transparent as when first gathered. The other Iruit was equally fine. The quantity of alum must not be increased, or the fruit will be hard. (c.) Some cork the bottles toeU immediately after putting in the fruit, witliout any water; they then put them in a pan of cold water, heat the latter till it simmers, and let the bottles remain in it till the fruit shrinks when it is unripe, or till the juice of the fruit has boiled up. They also recommend that fimit or vegetables, or their juices, should boil three or four hours if they will bear it; then remove the pan from the fire, and allow the bottles to cool as above. The small amount of oxygen contained in the bottles becomes absorbed, and fermentation is prevented, Some, again, advise that 2 to 6 oz. of sugar should be added to each quart bottle, when ripe fruit is used, and sufficient sugar to sweeten it ■when the fruit is green. In the latter case they fill up the bottles "with water, but not when the fruit is ripe ; thus preserved, they require no additional sugar when used for pies, etc.