228 VEGETARIAN COOKEEY. than soups, whicli should always be mild and not too strongly flavoured. About an ounce or an ounce and half of sugar to each gallon of soup is an improvement; the same proportion of salt may be used when few vegetables are employed, and two ounces when a large quantity of them is used. It is always safer to use too little than too much salt, pepper, and other seasonings, as a deficiency can be easily remedied, but an excess cannot be removed ; yet as heat develops the flavour of pepper and most spices, it is advisable to put in the proper quantity at first; frequently tasting is, however, the only sure guide. Half a drachm of celery or cress seed finely powdered, or double the quantity if used whole, will impart almost as much flavour to two quarts of soup as two or three heads of the fresh vegetable. Herb powder, or vegetable relish, browning, ketchup, flavoured vinegars, sweet herbs, and savoury spice are very convenient auxiliaries with which to finish soups. Spices and flavouring should not be added to soup till ten or fifteen minutes before it is removed from the fire, as heat dissipates the aroma. Tomatoes are a great improvement to many kinds of soups. A bunch of herbs, when spoken of for soups, consists of parsley, thyme, and green onions ; when called seasoning, it is these with about three bay leaves, sis cloves, a blade or two of mace, common pepper and salt, Thickened soups require nearly twice as much seasoning as clear soups, the piquancy of spice being blunted by the flour and butter. 484. Colouring—h. piece of bread well toasted, but not burnt, put into the soup a short time before it is ready, will generally be sufficient. An ounce or two of moist sugar, the coarser the better, may be put into a small saucepan with a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and dissolved together; add a glass of ketchup, and stir it well. Fried or baked onions may be used for the same purpose, without either butter or ketchup. Also either brown or white roux, according to the colour of the soup. General Bireetions for Making Broths for Clear Soups, or Founda- tions for Thickened Soups. 485. These should be prepared the evening before they are wanted.