138 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. (5.) Feuhletage ok Fine Feench Puef Paste. 192. Flour sixteen ounces; butter twelve to sixteen ounces ; yolks of eggs two to four; flour dry and sifted; butter free from salt. See 48. See also preliminary observations (183). Put the flour on the slab, make a hole in the centre, in which put a tea-spoonful of salt, and sufScient water to dissolve it; then mix the whole lightly with cold water to a rather soft paste ; when eggs are used mix them with the water before it is added to the flour; some add four ounces of the butter at the same time. Dredge a little flour occasionally, to assist in clearing the whole from the slab, and let the paste remain on the slab in a cool place from two to twenty minutes. Then roll it out to about three quarters of an inch thick; lay the butter previously prepared and brought to the same consistency as the paste, in the centre, flatten it a little with the hand, and cover it with the paste by turning the ends to the centre; roll the paste till it is about half an inch thick, dredging a little flour first over the slab and paste roller; fold it by turning over one-third at one end, and then folding the other end over it; this is called one turn. Eepeat the rolling and turning six times in summer, and seven in winter; allow a quarter of an hour between the turns ; keep the paste meanwhile in a cool place, and dredge the paste and slab each time lightly with flour. "WTien less butter is used, fewer turns will be required, but the paste will not be so light. It should be rolled lightly, and of equal thickness each time, and care should be taken that the butter does not break through the paste. Folding the paste in two or doubling it is called half a turn. Some break the butter in small pieces and distribute it equally over the paste, then dredge flour over it and fold it, etc. Others add about three or four ounces in pieces, each time the paste is rolled out. When butter is rolled into the paste at several intervals, the pastry, during the baking, becomes flaky or divided into thin laminae, by which it is distinguished from short crust.