131 CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC. 172. Queen Cakes or Fortugal Cakes. — Flour sixteen ounces; butter twelve to sixteen ounces; eggs eight to twelve ; sugar twelve to sixteen ounces. Add currants eight ounces. Bake in small tin pans, buttered, in a brisk oven for about twenty minutes. Grated lemon rind may be added. 173. Sutherland or Castle Puddings.—Th-Q same mixture as for Queen cakes, baked twenty to twenty-five minutes in buttered cups. (See 383.) 174. Gateau de ifatfe^we.—Instead of currants add a little grated lemon peel to the above. A little grated chocolate added forms Gateau de chocolat. Bake in tins or patty pans in a rather brisk oven, and draw them towards the entrance of the oven when sufficiently coloured. 175. («.) (7a7ces.-Flour sixteen ounces; butter twelve ounces; eggs eight; sugar twelve ounces ; caraway seeds three quarters of an ounce. Butter the pan and sift sugar over the cake. A few drops of lemon may be added. Mix as at 117 d, and immediately bake in a buttered mould in a moderate oven. (5.) Or, flour eight ounces; ground rice eight ounces; eggs ten; sugar ten ounces; caraway seeds three quarters of an ounce. 176. Plum or Pound Cake.—Floux sixteen ounces; butter sixteen ounces ; eggs eight; sugar sixteen ounces. Add currants sixteen ounces; raisins four ounces ; almonds four ounces ; orange peel and candied lemon four ounces each, shred fine. Some supply the place of these with caraway seeds one ounce; and one large tea-spoonful of baking powder. Mix as at 117 d. Butter the tin or pot, line it with buttered paper, and fill it about three-quarters full. A less quantity of butter and sugar also makes a good cake. Note.—Flour eight ounces and ground rice eight ounces may supply the place of flour sixteen ounces in any of the above. 177. Sponge Cakes. —Flour sixteen ounces; eggs twelve to sixteen; sugar sixteen to twenty ounces. Mix as at 117 e, or/. The flour should be well dried and sifted. Ten or twelve drops of essence of lemon may be added, or the rind of a lemon rasped on the lumps of sugar. 178. Savoij Biscuits or Ca/ces.—Put the above batter in a