102 VEGETARIAN COOK.EEY. Avhisked and strained; Leat the whole well hut lightly with a wooden spoon, then add the milk. {b.) Mix the yolks smoothly with the flour, salt, etc.; thin the batter with the milk, and stir in the whisked whites. (c.) Beat the butter to a cream ; shake in the sugar whilst the beating is continued ; whisk the whites and yolks separately, and add a spoonful of each alternately to the butter and sugar ; after which add the citron in strips, currants, etc., and then the flour gently through a sieve. The beating must be continued till the whole has beeu well mixed. {d.) Add the sugar gradually to tlie beaten egg; whisk the mixture four or flve minutes, then strew in gradually the flour mixed with the salt, sugar, or flavourings ; when well mixed add the butter, previously liquified, or beaten to a cream {HQ d), or the milk in which the seasonings have been boiled; these should be added by small quantities at once, and the beating continued till each portion has been thoroughly incorporated before the next portion is added. If the whites of eggs are to be added separately, stir them in lightly just before cooking. (e.) Boil the sugar with a little water, then pour the boiling suo-ar on the eggs, previously whisked a little, and whisk them with the sugar fifteen or twenty minutes; then stir in the flour. It should not be stirred after the flour has been added. (/.) Break the eggs into a pan and add the sugar; whisk the mixture over a slow fire until it is rather warmer than new milk; remove it from the fire, but continue the whisking till it is cold, when it ought to be rather thick. Mix in by degrees the flour and seasoning. The flour should be dry, but cold. [ff.) Stir gradually into the milk, semolina or other granular preparations ; let it boil over a gentle fire for ten minutes ; add the sugar, butter, and salt; boil and stir the whole continually for two or three nrinutes longer, remove it from the fire, let it cool a little, then stir in briskly but gradually the yolks and whites of eo-gs well beaten together and strained, and, when approved, bitter almonds pounded with a little sugar. When the mixture is nearly cold, pour it gently into a buttered dish or mould,