92 VEGETAKIAN COOKERY. absorbed, or till the grain is sufficiently tender. Add more fluid ■when necessary, and evaporate it when in excess. It should be frequently stirred with a wooden or silver spoon, or fork, to prevent burning; pewter spoils the colour of light coloured grains. (b.) Or into a very clean bright pan, rinsed with a little cold water, put a quart of milk, theu eight ounces of rice previously washed and picked, and a little sugar; set the pan on a trivet over a brisk fire, and stew the rice till tender, but not till dry or stifi". Serve the rice cold with preserves, etc. Eice thus cooked should not be stirred, and the quicker it is stewed the better colour it will be ; if intended for moulds, stew it a little longer, or till more of the fluid has evaporated. (c.) "When it is desirable to preserve the grains separate, as in the case of rice to be eaten as a vegetable, put the prepared grain in boiling water, or tie it loosely in a cloth; keep the water con- stantly boiling without a cover for thirty minutes, or till the grain is rather tender, then put it in a colander, turn it gently upon a dish, which place before the fire, or in a moderately heated oven to be dried. (d.) "Wash the rice in several waters, put it into a large quantity of cold water; raise the temperature gradually till it boils, and boil the rice gently for fifteen minutes uncovered. Throw it into a larffe colander, and let it drain for ten minutes near the fire, and if not quite dry, set it for a short time in a gentle oven. Peepaeations with Ceeed Geain. Wheat, Barley, Rice, etc., Flainly Creed. 107. (a.) "When the grain has been stewed till tender in water or milk, as may be preferred, pour it into soup plates and eat it with sugar, treacle, preserved fruit, milk, butter, mock cream, etc., or these may be added before the grain is removed from the fire or oven. (b.J Creed grain may be converted into puddings (317), moulds (209), frumenty (111), m au lait (112), etc. Grain creed m milk is generally preferred for any of these purposes ; about four ounces of grain to a pint, or a pint and half of milk.