VEGETARIAN DIETARY. 261 VEGETARIAN DIETAEY. 554. It was premised in the Introduction that the receipts in this work were not restricted to a purely fruit and farinaceous diet, but to one which may be regarded as intermediate and tran- sitionary ; and even this has been carried much beyond what the author recommends to be practised. The advocates of an animal or mixed diet will be much mistaken if they infer from these receipts that the table of a Vegetarian is habitually supplied with preparations which abound with butter and eggs ; such dishes may be tolerated in moderation by persons who object or hesitate to make any very sudden change from a diet of which, during many years, the flesh of animals has formed a material part, but a little experience will prove such dishes to be both unnecessary and injurious. They pall the appetite, disturb digestion, and do not yield the enjoyment which the more consistent Vegetarian finds when living upon plainer food. Some converts, however, are apt to rush into the opposite extreme, and by suddenly adopting what they consider a pure and natural diet, regardless of the .artificial condition in which they arc placed, have injured their own health and damaged the cause of Vegetarianism. In medio tutissimus ibis is a prudent maxim, and should not be lost sight of in our attempts to carry out what we feel assured is a natural law, but which may be impracticable in its entirety till the habits of civilized life and the customs of society, as regards food and drink, have undergone some change, and until nature, science, and art have united to supply from the vegetable world alone, all that is desirable as a diet for man in a cold°and variable climate. Our definitions of nature's laws and indications are frequently faulty, and a change of circumstances may render necessary a change in our expression of those laws and indications. Thus when we say that fruits and farinacea are the proper food of man, there is much implied which is not expressed, and the observation IS no longer strictly true if man be not in a position for fulfilling such other laws of his economy as are in relation to his diet.