194 VEGETAHIAN COOKEHY. 357. Bread crumbs eight ounces; flour a dessert-spoonful; beet one ounce ; miuced leeks, onions, or csclialots a quarter to half an ounce ; eggs four to six; butter two to three ounces, and the other ingredients as above. Thick cream will well supply the place of both butter and eggs; an ounce of tapioca may also be added as sauce. Mix all the ingredients well together by any approved method, or rub the butter and flour into the bread crumbs ; add the chopped herbs, etc.; mix all together with two beaten eggs, or with the cream; dissolve some butter in a tin, put in the forcemeat and bake before the fire or in a Dutch oven, occasionally adding a little butter; when brown on one side turn it over, and when sufficiently done serve with brown sauce. Or roll the mixture into rather small balls and lay them in a pie-dish; steep the tapioca ten minutes in half a pint of water; pour it over the balls; add three eggs boiled hard and cut into small pieces; cover with paste and bake. It may be eaten either hot or cold. The mixture may also be fried as fritters, or made into small balls rolled in egg and bread crumbs, and fried or baked in the oven till crisp and brown. Serve with brown sauce and eat them with potatoes and currant jolly or gooseberry solid. See Rissoles, 472. 358. Bread crumbs one breakfast-cupful; eggs two; one middle-sized onion boiled and shred fine; parsley shred fine one tea-spoonful; a little butter, and sufficient cream to make a light mixture; pepper and salt, a little of each. Beat the eggs, then mix all well together; butter some cups, into which pour the mixture till they are nearly three quarters filled; bake the puddings slowly for about twenty minutes. Serve with brown sauce. This pudding is usually very much relished. Ptjbdings Made with Roots, Tttbees, etc. 359. Potatoes boiled and mashed eight ounces; eggs one to four; sugar one to three ounces; butter one or two ounces; lemon rind a quarter to half an ounce; salt a few grains. Mix all the ingredients well together and bake them in a dish. A quarter of a pint of milk may be added if requisite, and one ounce of grated cheese with a little pepper or other seasoning, instead of