MISCELLANEOUS COMBINATIONS. 171 four of starch. The proportion of fat in each article is given in the last column. As nitrogenous principles contain ahout 15-75 per cent, ot nitroo-en the amount of this chemical element may he found by dividing the numbers in the first column by 6|, or more correctly by 6-35. Thus, oatmeal contains twelve parts of nitrogenous matter, and 12 divided by 6|, is equal to two per cent, nearly of nitrogen. To obtain the amount of starch, sugar, etc., distinct from the oleaginous matters, multiply the number representing the oil in the last column by 2^ and subtract the product from the corres- ponding number in the second column, the remainder will be the per centage of the starch, etc. Thus, in the case of oatmeal, 6 per cent, of oil multiplied by 2^ is equal to a little more than U, Tvhich, subtracted from 76, in column two, leaves 62, the per centage of starch, sugar, etc. Milk, probably, contains the relative proportions of the nitro- genous and carbonaceous principles best adapted to the human constitution generally, namely, one of the former to five of the latter; it will beVell, therefore, to keep this proportion in view when preparing culinary compounds. Good cheese, for instance, contains only two and a-half of the carboniferous principles to one of the nitrogenous ; this indicates the propriety of adding to it rice, potatoes, butter, etc. Peas and beans likewise contain only three of the former to one of the latter, and therefore require to be mixed with rice, sago, potatoes, butter, etc. For the same reason almonds and nuts should be eaten with raisins or other fruit; or in combination with rice-flour, potatoes, Jerusalem artichokes, etc., as in puddings and soups. Almonds and nuts should be either well masticated or cooked with fruit, farina, etc. The dark skin is injurious and should be removed ; slmonds should be blanched. For some purposes it is advisable to pound them, or reduce them to an emulsion (50, 57, 134). To a neglect of these precautions may perhaps be attributed the indigestibility of these vegetable productions in certain cases, rather than to their chemical composition. However, the large quantity of albuminous and oleaginous principles which they contain indicates the propriety of using them together with articles