VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 10 it is at hand. The oxalic acid unites with the lime, whatever may be its combinaiion in the water, and forms an insoluble salt (oxalate of lime), which falls to the bottom, while the ammonia of the oxalate of ammonia is driven off by the heat of the water. Soft or distilled water is the best for infusions, solutions, and decoctions. It boils sooner than hard water, and extracts more effectually the aroma of tea and other vegetable substances. The tannin, gum, albumen, and volatile oil, on which last the flavour of the tea depends, are all capable of uniting with the salts which cause the hardness of the water, and of forming with them either insoluble or peculiar compounds as regards flavour. In either case they diminish the colour and taste of the infusion, and delay the process of tea-making. The same remarks apply to coffee, soup, etc. men the object is to cook the food, so as to preserve the juices as much as possible in the substances cooked, hard water is pre- ferable, and for this purpose jalt is also added. Soft water without salt is too powerful a solvent for green vegetables; it makes them too tender, destroying that firmness essential to the preservation of their juices, which are thus dissolved and extracted, and the vegetables, consequently, rendered insipid. The green colour is also abstracted, and the vegetables are rendered pale, and even yellowish. Sea salt in small quantities, a solution of less than twenty grains to two ounces of water, or about an ounce to a quart, favours decomposition, and softens animal and vegetable fibres, especially if a little heat be added; a strong solution, on the con- trary hardens the fibres, and preserves them from decomposition. Sea water contains between twenty-five and tweuty-six grains in two ounces. (i.) The Saccharine Alimentary Princiiile. 5 This includes several kinds of sugar quite distinct in character, but it will not be necessary to notice more than three, viz., cane-sugar, grape-sugar or glucose, and sugar of milk. One or other of these is found both in vegetables and animals, particularly the former.