152 VEGETAHIAN COOKERY. water, remove the skin, specks, etc., when necessary; evaporate the moisture from potatoes, etc., and squeeze the water from those which contain any, as turnips and Jerusalem artichokes • press them while hot through a colander or coarse sieve; or bruise them quite smooth with a wooden spoon, or with two forks in one hand, the points of the prongs being turned outwards; if not sufficiently dry, stir them for a few minutes in a saucepan over a gentle fire, then add one or two ounces of butter for every two pounds of mashed roots; also a little salt, a few spoonfuls of milk or cream, or white sauce, and stir the whole during five or six minutes, or until it is hot, well mixed, and all superfluous moisture evaporated. A little sugar added with the salt to turnips, carrots, etc., is considered an improvement by some persons. An egg also may be beaten up with the milk. A little flour mixed with the butter renders turnips less watery when mashed. Boiled roots three pounds; butter two ounces ; salt half a tea- spoonful ; sugar a dessert-spoonful; milk or cream nearly half a pint. To Serve Mi shed Tubers, etc. 234. Any of the following methods may be adopted :— 1. Serve them hot from the pan, without further preparation. 2. Brown them before the fire. 3. Put them in well-buttered scallop shells or patty-pans, strew bread crumbs and small pieces of butter on the top, and brown both tops and bottoms by turning them. 4. Press the mashed roots into buttered cups or moulds, which have been strewed with fine bread crumbs, and all loose crumbs shaken off; brown before the fire or in an oven. 5. Mix the mashed potatoes with whites of eggs beaten to a froth; form the whole into a paste, with which fill the skins of baked potatoes, from which one end has been cut ofi", and the con- tents removed ; then bake and serve. 6. Let the mashed roots cool a little, roll them in balls, sprinkle over them rice flour, or vermicelli crushed slightly with the hand; or roll them in egg and fine bread crumbs, fry the balls, or roast them slightly in a Dutch oven.