TO BOIL ROOTS, TUBERS, ETC. 147 nitrogenised matters reside in the epidermis, or in the tissues immediately subjacent, and, as observed under albumen (13), cold water dissolves this principle, and thus the most nutritious portions of the tubers, roots, etc., are either lost by paring or are held in solution by the water. On the contrary, boiling water coagulates the albumen, and thus renders the vegetables containing it more nutritious than they would be if first put into cold water. The flavour and colour, however, of turnips, old potatoes, and other white roots are improved by paring and soaking in cold water previously to cooking (40). The water should be skimmed for white roots, asparsneps, etc., if they have been previously pared. When suflSciently boiled, peel potatoes, pare beet root and turnips, and rub off the skin of carrots, parsneps, and new potatoes with a coarse cloth. To Boil Fotatoes, 216. Select them of nearly equal size, boil them by the general rule for roots, etc., and when tender, drain the water from them, and let them stand over or by the side of the fire uncovered until all the moisture has evaporated, shaking them occasionally. If they are not wanted immediately, lay a cloth over them, but it is better to peel and serve them without delay. Some put each potato into a clean warm cloth and twist it so as to press all the moisture out and render the potato quite round. This method is advisable when it is intended to mash the potatoes, or to use them for puddings or cakes. New potatoes should be put into hot water with a little salt in it; older potatoes may be put into either cold or boiling water, but if pared, boiling water is preferable. Young potatoes re- quire to be boiled from ten to twenty minutes; old potatoes from twenty to forty-five minutes. Jerusalem Artichokes. 217. Boil or rather simmer them from fifteen to twenty-five minutes, or till tender ; a few sliced onions are sometimes boiled with them. Serve them with melted butter, cream, or white sauce. The sauce may be thickened with oatmeal. Turnips, Carrots, Farsneps, Onions, 218. For the time these require boiling, see 60.