185 PUDDINGS. Geatn or Seed Puddings. 326. The seeds of the Graminece and Leguminosa (21, 28), ■when boiled or creed in water or milk (106), may be made into puddings, by adding a little more water or milk, sugar, and a few grains of salt. The whole may be put into a well buttered dish, and baked at a moderate heat; or into a basin or mould, and boiled with a cloth tied firmly over it. The ingredients may also be mixed together and placed in an oven without previously creeing the grain, but to cree it first is preferable. When milk and eggs are scarce, wash and pick the grain well, put it in a saucepan wiih as much water as it will absorb; add a little salt, and boil gently, till the grain is tender, and the water absorbed; then add currants or raisins, well washed and picked ; put the whole in a buttered basin, cover it with a cloth, and let it boil an hour. Sliced apples, etc., may be used instead of currants or riiisins. 327. Sago, tapioca, and all kinds of seeds should be washed and soaked in water an hour or more before they are made into puddings, in order to remove earthy and other unpleasant flavours. Half a pound of rice may require two quarts of milk; barley will require more. These puddings may be enriched and flavoured by adding butter, cream, eggs, cinnamon, nutmeg, leraon-peel, etc. The eggs should be well beaten, and added to the other ingre- dients, when the latter are ratlier cool; but eggs are seldom required for rice or other seed puddings. These puddings may also be varied by adding currants, raisins, apples pared, cored, and quartered, or chopped small; or, for a savoury pudding, onions chopped small, sage, mar- joram, etc. Two or more of the creed grains may be mixed together with advantage, as two parts rice, and one part Scotch barley; two parts rice, and one part split lentils, etc. Barley should be creed longer than the rice. Any of the creed grains may be mixed with soaked bread, bread crumbs, etc. Puddings require nearly twice as long boiling as baking.