23 ALIMKKTAllY PUINCIPLES. when many eggs, almonds, or nuts are eaten Nether tb s azotized principle, nor either of the other two when taken alone, is able to support life long, though they are very nutritious m combination with non-azotized principles. . , v, f Albumen entangles the air which is forced into it by beating hence the white of eggs, when beaten, imparts lightness and whiteness to souffles and light cakes. If albumen be added to any liquid which is not clear, and the mixture be subjected to a boiling heat, the albumen in coagulating unites with tlie impurities of the liquid, and either rises to the surface as a scum, or sinks to the bottom. As albumen is soluble lu cold Avater and coagulated by hot water, all substances intended to be boiled for food should be plunged into very hot or boiling water, which should be kept in a state of ebullition for a lew minutes and then reduced to between 158° and till the articles are enough. But when the articles are intended tor soup-making they should be cut into small pieces, put into cold water, and gradually heated, so th;.t the albumen may be extracted by the water. Too great a heat applied in bakmg will also coagulate the albumen and c.iuse a separation between it aud the fluid part of the mixture. {b ) Fibrine. 14. When the juices of certain fruits, roots, and other vegetable productions are allowed to stand, a spontaneous separation takes place in the course of a few minutes. A gelatinous precipitate, commonly of a green tinge, is deposited; and this, when acted on by liquids which remove the colouring matter, leaves a greyish white substance, which is vcgcLabie fibrine. It differs from albumen aud caseine by being insoluble m water; hence it separates from the vegetable juice in which it was dissolved, exactly as fibrine does from blood. It is soluble in diluted alkalies and in aceiic acid, but insoluble in alcohol. When it is digested with acetic and most other acids, it becomes gelatinous, and is in that state soluble in water. Fibrine is found in the recently expressed juices of^ most vegetables, as carrots, turnips, and beet; ic is abundaut in the juice of grapes, aud in the seeds of the cereal grains, as wheat,