56 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. after they have been bruised or reduced to powder, unless it be intended to use the fluid for puddings, soups, etc., otherwise the substances macerated will lose a great portion of their nutritive qualities. In some cases, however, this is desirable, as when oatmeal disagrees with a weak stomach; it may then be macerated m cold water, and after standing some time, the water, which will then hold the sugar and albumen in solution, must be rejected. When cold or hot liquids are poured upon vegetable sub- stances, for the purpose of obtaining their active properties in a fluid state, the resulting liquid is called an infusion, as tea, coffee, etc.; when the substances become dissolved in the fluid, it is called a solution ; and if produced by boiling, it is called a decoction, as soup. These terms, however, are seldom used in cookery. (2.) SlMJirEEING. 59. This takes place at the temperature which immediately precedes boiling, and is known by small bubbles forming at the edge of the liquor next the vessel Many preparations require this gentle boiling, as a state of active ebullition would spoil them by dissipating the volatile principles of the vegetables subjected to the operation. Hence the advantage of simmering soups for a long time, in order to render the contained substances tender, without destroying the aroma and flavour. The easiest and safest method of simmering sauces, porridge, etc., is by means of a double saucepan {l>ain marie); the inner part, containing the fluid to be simmered, being fixed within the lower or outward part, which contains boiling water; thus situated, the contents of the inner part cannot be made to boil nor be burnt, because as soon as the water in the external vessel reaches 212°, it passes in steam. If, however, the density of the water in the larger vessel be increased by adding salt, etc., then the water in the inner vessel may be made to boil. The inner vessel should be thin to admit the rapid transmission of heat from the boiling water, and the outer vessel must not be allowed to become dry.