TO PRESERVE FKUIT FOR FUTURE USE. 73 Jars of fruit may be treated in the same way, using 6 oz. of sugar for plums, etc. Much sugar, however, tends to destroy the natural flavour of the fruit. Ripe currants and raspberries may be bottled together. While corking the bottles, set them on double flannel dipped in hot water; if placed on a cold surface, or exposed to a current of cold air, the sudden change of temperature may break them. If the corks are fastened down with wire or twine it will prevent them flying ; then dip the top of each bottle in melted resin, and, as only a thin coating will be taken while the bottle is hot, dip it a second time when it is cold. When the bottles are laid on their sides, the water should cover the fruit. Use long corks, not bungs, as the latter are cut the wrong way of the cork, and will admit air; choose them of a good colour and texture. Scald them, and L t the water become almost cold, drain off the water and scald them again with clean water, let them stand for an hour, remove them from the water and put them in a sieve for two days to dry. Some pour melted fat upon the fruit iu the bottles to the thickness of a penny-piece just before they are corked. When the bottles are opened, the fat is removed with a spoon. When you put in the cork, squeeze it as I small as possible, drive it down one inch into the bottle, cut the cork even "with the mouth of the bottle. Instead of corking the bottles, some prefer pouring a little olive oil on the water to secure the fruit from the access of air, in which case the bottles must be stored in an upright position. When about to use the fruit pour off the greater part of the water, if no sugar has been used, and add sugar as for fresh fruit. The liquor poured from the fruit will form a good syrup when boiled with sugar. Cranberries need ouly be put into clean bottles or jars, which should be filled up with cold water, previously boiled, cork or cover them closely, When about to use the berries, stew them ' lightly in a little of the water in which they have been kept, adding a little sugar. All fruits, however, when bottled with cold water, cat rather hard, even after they have been well stewed; it is advisable in this case to bruise them well whilst being stewed.