142 VEGETARIAN COOKEEY. Indian meal is better if boiled gently for half an hour or an hour. 203. A preferable mode of making porridge, especially when the meal or flour is fine, is to steep the meal in as much cold water as it will absorb, in which state it may remain several hours; stir it into the boiling water and continue the stirring till the porridge boils fast and thickens, which may be in five or six minutes; then remove it to where it will just keep boiling for twenty minutes without burning. A double saucepan, the lower part containing water, is the best for making porridge in. "While Indian meal is steeping, remove all the light floating particles. The steeped meal may be added to milk if preferred, and heated in a slow oven for two hours, until all the milk has been absorbed. "When hominy is used it should be steeped during twelve hours, or more, and boiled or creed till sufiicieutly soft. Cold porridge may be cut into slices and fried in butter ; fried onions, parsley, pepper and salt may be added. It may also be sliced and cheese toasted upon it; or cut in thin slices and toasted before the fire, or on a gridiron, and eaten instead of bread, either in milk or in any kind of soup or pottage : or it may be eaten cold without any pre- paration, with a warm sauce made of butter, molasses or sugar, and a little vinegar. It may also be boiled in milk. The meals of two or three grains may be mixed, as one-third rice meal, and two-thirds oatmeal. See 131. Savoury Porridge. 204. Oatmeal two or three table-spoonfuls; onions two or three ounces; milk one pint; butter a quarter of an ouuce; pepper and salt one tea-spoonful. Boil the onions in two waters; when tender, shred them fine and add them to the boiling milk; sprinkle in the oatmeal, add the butter, pepper, and salt; boil ten to fifteen minutes, pour it into soup plates, and serve with sippets. Instead of onions, grated cheese may be stirred in with the oatmeal. Cheese with Indian meal or semolina, forms also another variety of polenta, an Italian dish. For sweet porridge add sugar, raisins, currants, etc., instead of the onions and pepper.