20 VEGETARIAN COOK.EHT. in the lungs, on the brain and the liver; and, under ordinary cir- camstances, there are other better, safer, and less injurious combustibles to be burned in the vital lamp ."—Dr. Pereira. "Whether alcohol in some shape, and in small quantities, may be necessary in cases of debility or disease, is for the medical practi- tioner to determine; under ordinary circumstances it is certainly not required, and in cookery it may be dispensed with altogether. It is, however, frequently recommended for sauces, etc. Alcohol diminishes not only the absolute quantity of carbonic acid exhaled by the lungs, but also the relative proportion of it in the products of respiration. Professor Schultz says " Its action on the blood is not chemical but vital; it contracts the vesicles, by which they are deprived of colouring matter, and hurried on to the last stage of development or death ; and as the activity of the respiratory process depends upon the vital activity of the vesicles, less oxygen will be absorbed, and less carbonic acid excreted, in proportion as the vesicles are devitalized; and this is the true explanation of the venous character peculiar to the blood of drunkards." See also Lehmann's Fhysialogical Chemistry, vol. iii. p. 363. It is therefore doubtful whether alcohol should be considered an alimentary principle, or merely a useful stimulant when properly diluted, and in certain conditions of the animal system. ' (h ) The Oleaginous Alimentcry Principle. 11. Oil and butter contain carbon and hydrogen very nearly in the same relative proportion as starch and the various sugars ; they differ from fat chiefly in containing more oxygen. Oleaginous mat- ters are to a certain extent necessary as a part of human food, more especially in cold climates, where they are consumed in large quantities to support the animal heat, etc., and the large amount found in the yolk of egg and milk proves their importance in the progress of development. ' Thouo-h the farinaceous and saccharine principles are convertible by the process of digestion into the oleaginous principle (5), it is advisable, when exposed to a cold and damp atmosphere, to make a free use of such articles as, in their natural state, contain it, or