BREAD. 109 2. Bicarbonate of soda and milk, or butter-milk, the milk having been kept till rather acid (115 i). 3. Bicarbonate of soda and hydrochloric acid. 4. Potash and treacle. 5. Eggs, snow, etc. The baking powders are much the readiest for general purposes, but as most of those in use are a mixture of bicarbonate of soda and tartaric or other acid, tartrate of soda, or some other purga- tive salt is formed, which might prove injurious by daily use. The powders, however, may be occasionally employed with impunity. A similar objection applies to the frequent use of soda and milk, or butter-milk, which produce lactate of soda. Bicarbonate of soda and muriatic (hydrochloric) acid are preferable to the pre- ceding means of raising dough, but they require care in weighing, measuring, mixing, etc., and few persons will take the trouble of acquiring the proper method of employing theiu. Besides, few chemical preparations are ordinarily pure enough for culinary purposes, and hydrochloric acid frequently contains arsenic. The soda and acid unite and form carbonic acid and chloride of sodium or common salt; the former is prevented escaping too rapidly by the gluten contained in the flour, and thus the dough is raised and rendered light, the latter supplies the place of salt, usually added in making bread. Potash and treacle are generally employed in making ginger- bread. The treacle contains glucic and melassic acids (5), which unite with the potash, or other carbonates employed, and thus carbonic acid is set at liberty, which raises the dough as above. Eggs are frequently employed, not only for making dough lighter, but also for enriching it with albumen, which, when coagulated by heat, renders arrow-root, rice, and other articles abounding in starch, more compact than baking powders could do. See 53. Fresh fallen snow may be substituted for eggs in batter for pancakes; two large spoonfuls of snow being considered equiva- lent to one egg. The snow should be quickly stirred into the flour, and the batter should be fried immediately. Gum-water, and other adhesive substances are occasionally