7,6 VEGETAKIAN COOKERY. them under the four following heads:—1. Preserves; -2. Jams and Marmalades; 3. Moulded Palp or Fruit Moulds; 4. Jellies. (1.) Pkeseeves. 73. Preserves proper are fruits or other vegetables protected by sugar or syrup, either entire, or, if divided, not mashed or reduced to pulp. They may be boiled or potted in the syrup, or they may be removed from the syrup and dried on sieves or dishes in the sun, or in a very moderate oven, with a little powdered sugar sprinkled over them every time they are turned. {a.) Having prepared the fruit, put it carefully in wide- mouthed bottles; sprinkle the sugar in with the fruit, reserving a rather larger portion for the top (68); put the bottles in a pan of cold water ; gradually raise the temperature ; simmer half an hour; fill up the bottles from each other, and complete the process as for bottled fruit (74). Ripe currants, strawberries, and raspberries, may be thus preserved, eight ounces of sugar being added to a pound of fruit. (A.) Form a syrup (69) with from twelve ounces to two pounds of sugar and a pint of water; a lemon cut in slices, and the peel of such fruit as pines may be simmered about five minutes in it. Strain, and when the syrup is cold, add the fruit, if large, in thin slices; simmer till the (ruit is tender, or till a wooden skewer easily penetrates it. Put the fruit and gyrup in jars, as directed (76). It is better to add only one-third of the sugar at first, and the remaining portions as directed in method c. (c.) Sprinkle one-third of the sugar over the fruit, and let it stand from one to three days, or until sufficient juice has been extracted ; if the fruit yields little juice add a little water. Put the syrup and fruit carefully into a preserving pan, heat them gradually over the fire, and simmer them gently ten minutes; remove the pan from the fire, and with a wooden spoon take out the fruit and put it into a bowl; add another third of the sugar to the syrup, and simmer it five or ten minutes, skim it well and