159 TO STEW SPINACH, ETC. To Stew Spinach, Water Cresses, etc. 256. Wash the spinach in several waters, and pick it well; hoil it a few minutes and then drain and squeeze the water well from it, through a cloth or colander; chop it fine, put it in a stew- pan, and stir it over a moderate fire till dry; add two ounces of hutter for a moderate dish of it; stir it ten minutes or until it appears dry again, and, whilst stirring it, dredge in a dessert- spoonful of flour. Two or three spoonfuls of cream may he added, or an egg heaten up with milk, and a little salt or sugar; stir the whole again till the moisture has heen evaporated, and serve it hot with sippets, or press in into a hot mould. If a slightly acid flavour be preferred, add a tea-spoonful of lemon juice after it has been removed from the fire. It is said that when spinach is stewed in butter it is subjected to a heat which renders it crisp and destroys its colour. Some prefer spinach stewed with crumbs of bread, a little butter, salt, and pepper, fried bread sippets to garnish it, or poached eggs on the top. Some add parsley, shallots, etc. Or, after washing and picking the spinach, put it into a stew- pan with no water except that which adheres to it from washing ; add a little salt, and stir it fifteen minutes or till tender ; drain ofi", or evaporate the moisture; chop the spinach on a hot trencher and serve with poached eggs. To Stew Lettuces, Nettles, etc. 257. "Wash them well, drain them, and put them in boiling water with a little salt; boil them from twenty to thirty minutes, press the water from them, and then chop them a little ; heat them in a saucepan with a little butter, pepper, and salt, dredging in also a little flour as you stir it; add a little cream, and stew quickly till it is tolerably dry. Stir in a little vinegar or lemon juice, and serve hot with sippets. To Stew Celery. 258. Boil three heads of celery in milk and water till tender, but not soft, divide them lengthwise; cut them into pieces about two inches long ; put them in a pan with half a pint of milk or