CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC. 121 small pots for future use, and cover it well. Lemon juice should not be added till the other ingredients have been well mixed; stir it in briskly by degrees, otherwise the milk and eggs will be curdled by it. Caraway seeds, ginger, and other similar flavouring ingredients should be used in the form of a fine powder, or under that of an essence, made by digesting them in spirits of wine ; caraway seeds, however, are frequently used whole. Almonds, cocoa-nut, and spices should be finely pounded, or the flavour extracted by boiling them in the fluid employed for mixing the ingredients (56, 57, 278). Currants should be well washed, picked, and dried on a cloth, then set before the fire; if damp they will render cakes and pud- dings heavy. They are cleaned most readily by putting ihem in a colander and sprinkling a handful of flour over them. Rub and shake them well, then pour cold water over them; drain and spread them on a soft cloth, with which press them gently, that it may absorb the moisture from them. Spread them on a dish, or tin, and dry them, very gradually, in the sun, or before the fire, or in a cool oven. When dry spread them on a sheet of white paper or other white surface, and carefully remove all re- maining stalks, stones, etc. Dust them with fine dry flour, shake off the loose flour, and add them while warm to the other ingre- dients, just before cooking. Wash raisins well in cold water, spread them out and rub them a little, then put them for a few minutes into boiling water over a very quick fire; this causes them to swell, and develops the flavour; stone them afterwards, and add them as directed for currants. All ingredients and vessels used in making light cakes should be warm, so as not to check the fermentation of the dough. When all the ingredients have been added, the whole should be well and long beaten, as the lightness of the cake depends much upon the articles being well incorporated. A slab of marble, or a slate, is the best for making paste upon. For the finer kinds, which contain much butter, the coolest part of the house and of the day should be chosen for the process, and the hands should be previously washed in very hot water.