PASTRY FOK PIKS, PUDDINGS, ETC. 135 possible, and the butter should be rendered firm by placing it over fee or by putting the vessel which contains xt xn another vessel, hoid n' a solution of salt and saltpetre in water. The paste also b tween the intervals of rolling, should be kept m a cool place 0 as recommended for the butter. All the ingredients should be we l and evenly mixed. A quantity of baking powder or carbonate of aLonia, makes pie-crust light, and may in par supply the place of butter. See 123 and 134. When either of these k used! it should be mixed well mth the flour in a dry '*\nbakin!,'*'the finer kinds of pastry should have a sufficient decrree of heat to raise them quickly, but not so high as to colour them too much before they are done. The oven door should remain closed after they have been put in, and not opened again till the paste has set. Large raised pies require a steady and well sustained heat. j. . • The varieties of Pastry may be included in five divisions, viz.: Bread Ciust, Cream Crust, Short Crust, Pufi" Paste, and Feuille- tage. (1.) Bkeab Ceust. 184. Take a pound of white bread dough after it has risen sufficiently; roll it out very thin and square, and place a ball of butter, weighing from two to four ounces, in the centre; fold the paste round it, then roll it out lightly two or three times, folding the ends always to the centre as for Puff Paste. Pastry formed by yeast, becomes dry by long keeping. Remarks.—The dough may be raised either with yeast or with baking powder ; the paste may have butter distributed over it in small pieces, and then folded and rolled out as above ; some prefer dough made with milk rather than water ; it is, however, liable to become dry sooner than when made with water ; the dough used for tea-cakes (135), will answer very well; some add a little salt, others sugar, especially when for sweet pies, a well-beaten egg may be substituted for the butter ; or two table-spoonfuls of safad oil by those who prefer it to butter. The yolks of eggs are preferable to the yolks and whites mixed.