75 FRUITS PRESERVED WITH SUGAR. It is usual to add a pint of wafer and a pound of sugar to each pound of fruit, one third of the sugar being added at each boiling, but it is desirable to use no more -water than the fruit requires. The sugar may vary from eight ounces to two pounds, but the natural flavour of the fruit is obscured by an excess of sugar. Unless the syrup be thin at first and the fruit soft, the latter will not absorb the sugar, nor become clear and plump. Preserves and jams, when sufficiently boiled, should be put into clean, dry jars, covered with tissue paper rubbed over slightly with pure olive oil, or dipped in brandy or white of egg, and \ then protected by one or two pieces of bladder, paper, or sheet - gutta percha, so as to exclude the air as much as possible. They i should be kept in a verij dry and cool place. The bladder should be soaked in water for two days, and its internal or smooth surface should be placed upwards. The tissue paper should be cut larger than the opening of the jar, well smeared with white of egg, and pressed well down at the sides. They will ferment and become raity if not sufficiently boiled, or if kept in too warm a place ; and they are apt to become candied if boiled too quickly or too long. If they are not kept in a dry place, or have not been sufficiently boiled, they will probably become mouldy. They should be occasionally examined, and when slight fermen- tation appears, the syrup should be re-boiled for a few minutes and well skimmed; the fruit also should be well scalded in it; the whole should then be secured in clean jars, as above. For common preserves, coarse sugar may be used, but well refined loaf sugar, or fine crystallized sugar, should be generally preferred, as there is less scum and waste from the finer sugars. All the coarse sugars contain acari and other impurities, and on this account the well refined sugars are most economical. I FRUITS PRESERVED WITH SUGAR. 77. The term Preserves is sometimes applied to fruits boiled with sugar in any condition, but it will be convenient to arrange