ii INlEODUCTtiJN. from labour, but by regular exercise, with alternate periods of rest. If we attempt by artificial means to render the legitimate exercise of any organ unnecessary, we shall certainly impair or weaken its function; and this observation is as applicable to the internal organs as to the external limbs. No alimentary substance, therefore, should be cooked to such excess as to leave the organs little or nothing to do. Any article softened or diluted to such a degree as to render mastication unnecessary is injurious to the teeth; and the admixture of the saliva with the food, so essential to the digestion of all farinaceous substances, will, in a great measure, be prevented. Aliments thus prepared should, at any rate, be used sparingiy, or along with other sub- stances of greater consistency. All food in a hot state, whether solid or liquid, should be care- fully avoided, as it acts injuriously on the teeth, debilitates the stomach, and, through it, every other organ and portion of the animal system. Heat stimulates the nerves of taste, but, like most other stimulants, it weakens their power of appreciating the delicate flavours of the best and most wholesome articles of food, and renders our gustatory enjoyment much less complete. In culinary preparations we should not aim to concentrate too highly the nutritive qualities of food, for this would certainly prove injurious In all food nature has combined nutritious with in- nutritious matter, and we frequently err by using art to separate the one from the other, as their union is generally necessary to good digestion and perfect nutrition. Improper combinations of different kinds of food, and too great a variety at one time, should be avoided; for it is impossible that the human organs should digest equally well substances of an entirely different natui-e, when taken together. An almost endless variety of food adapted to the organization of man has been pro- vided for him, but not for the purpose of intimate mixture or ot heing used at the same time; simplicity of food at each meal being essential to his highest well-being. Great simplicity, however, is consistent with endless variety, if a periodical routine of two or three well-selected dishes for each day be adopted. _ It is intended in this work to show how great a variety, and what numerous changes of palatable and nutritious preparations.