VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 18 pectic acid in turnips and carrots amounts respectively to 2 and 5 per cent. When the juice of fruits is carefully evaporated at a tempera- ture of 200°, the concentrated portion of it concretes into a tremulous gelatinous mass, quite distinct from animal gelatine and from gluten, as it contains no nitrogen. It is very analogous to gum with vegetable acid, and if, when gelatinized, it be put into a sieve, the acid gradually filters through, and by washing ■with cold water it may be separated, leaving the jelly pure, which will dry into a hard mass not very different from gum. Suo-ar or alcohol promotes the solidification of both pectine and pectic acid, and the addition of a very small quantity of a fixed alkali, as potash, converts pectine into pectic acid, which is not soluble in cold water like the former. When the quantity of suo'ar added is not sufficient to absorb all the watery parts of the fruit, caution is necessary in evaporating the moisture, for by long boiling the mixture often loses the property of gelatinizing, and the jelly is spoiled. This is caused either by the coagulation of the vegetable albumen (13) destined to form the jelly, or by the con- version of the pectine or pectic acid into metapeptic acid, winch is very soluble in water, and incapable of forming a jelly. An impure aqueous solution of pectine gelatinizes by keeping, the pectine being changed by the vegetable albumen into pectic acid. It contains less hydrogen and more oxygen than starch. Pectine and pectic acid are known from experience to be of the greatest importance as food, but it is not known why they are so, nor what change they undergo during the pi-ocess of digestion. "When pectine is heated with a small quantity of potassa or soda or of their carbonates, it is converted into what has been termed pectic aeid. This acid is easily obtained by the action of alkalies on the ligneous tissue of some vegetables; it combines with bases, and may be again separated from them by other acids. The alhaline pectates are soluble, but the peetate of lime is insoluble."—Brande. Pectic acid may be obtained thus:-Wash rasped carrots well with distilled water, then boil 50 parts of the squeezed residue with 300 parts of water and one of potash. The peetate of po ash is deposited as a jelly in the filtered liquid on cooling. Either