ARTICLES USED IN VEGETAKIAN DIET. 37 other starchy matters, after having absorbed the liquid m which it is cooked, it becomes soft and almost aqueous if cooked too long. As tapioca is very hard, it is generally necessary to macerate it in the liquid in which it is to be boiled for an hour or two before heat is applied, but being more soluble tban sago, it does not require to be boiled so long. 32. Arrow-root.—A. very pure, white, amylaceous powder, obtained from Maranta arundinacea in the West Indies; Curcuma angustifolia in the East Indies; and the South Sea, or Tahiti arrow-root, is from Tacca pinnatijida ; but that from Bermuda is most esteemed. Arrow-root makes a firm jelly with boiling water, and in this respect it is superior to wheat-starch. 33. Tous-les-Mois ; Canna Siarch.—Saxi to be procured from the root, or rhizome of Canna coccinea, and is imported from St. Kitts It yields a stilfer jelly than common arrow-root, devoid of colouring matter, and of any disagreeable flavour or odour. It is very soluble and very easily digested. Its grains are larger than those of any other starch. 34. Potato Starch or English Arroio-root.—l^xii agrees very much in general dietetic properties with other amylaceous sub- stances, previously described, but it does not yield so firm a jelly, and is more apt to cause acidity thau arrow-root, especially in infants. It is used by the cook in the preparation of souffles, and in thickening sauces, soups, etc. Pastry is improved in appearance and crispness by the addition of potato starch to wheat-flour; equal quantities of each may be used. To obtain potato starch, wash and pare some potatoes, grate them into a sieve, standing in a bowl of cold water, the starch will pass through the sieve and sink to the bottom of the water ; wash and squeeze the fibre well which is retained in the sieve, till all the starch has passed through. As soon as the starch has settled, pour off the water, add more clean water to the starch, stir it up well that every portion may be well washed, and when it has again settled pour off the water. Thus wash the starch in several waters till quite white, and after pouring ofi' the last water, dry the starch carefully before the fire, stirring it occasionally, and