66 VEOETABIAN COOKERY. the syrup again over the fruit hot or cold as before. Repeat the process on the following day, adding the remaining sugar. If it is intended to keep the fruit during many months, more sugar must be employed than for compotes, because a weak syrup has a tendency to ferment, and quickly becomes acid if kept at a moderate temperature, but a concentrated solution of sugar prevents the spontaneous decomposition of organic matters boiled in it. When fruit has been lightly stewed in syrup, it may be taken out and allowed to stand a few days ; boil the syrup again, pour it over the fruit, and allow it to stand a day or two longer; then drain off the syrup, and lay the fruit on dishes or tins to dry in a cool place. The syrup may be used for pies or puddings. (2.) Syeup. 69. As syrup 'is much used for preserving plums, melons, cucumbers, etc., a few remarks respecting it will not be here out of place. Sugar.—Coarse sugar may be used when intended for common use, or when a dark syrup is required; but lump sugar or fine crystals when intended for dessert, or when a clear pale syrup is preferred. Syrup prepared with the best refined sugar is also less liable to spontaneous decomposition. The transparency of the syrup will be promoted by using the sugar in a single lump, taken from the bottom or broad end of the loaf; if it be powdered or bruised, the syrup will be cloudy. Two pounds of sugar and a pint of water form a syrup which neither ferments nor crystallizes; but twelve ounces of sugar, a pint of water, and a pound of fruit will answer very well, and keep for a month or two. When the fruit contains much juice, less water should be used. Water.—When a very clear syrup is wanted, use distilled water or filtered soft water, as the lime contained in hard water would be deposited by boiling, and destroy the transparency. A syrup with a very slight excess of water keeps better than one fully saturated. Smt.—In forming the syrup, employ as little heat as possible.