213 PIES, TARTS, PASTIES, ETC. 424. Turnips twenty-four ounces; onions four ounces; butter one ounce; water half a pint. 425. Carrots two pounds; butter two ounces; water quarter of a pint. The carrots should be well washed and brushed, then sliced, grated, or scraped, whilst raw; or they may be half boiled and sliced. 426. Mushrooms six ounces; butter one ounce; water half a pint; peas or potatoes pared and sliced, sixteen ounces; tapioca half an ounce ; a little pepper and salt. The parings and stalks of the mushrooms may be stewed half an hour in water: strain and add the tapioca previously steeped, and when the pie has been baked pour in the gravy. 427. Vegetable marrow and celery in equal quantities, and one onion boiled; cut them small, season with pepper and salt, add a dessert-spoonful of tapioca steeped in a quarter of a pint of cold water, and one ounce of butter. 428. Scald some spinach, drain and squeeze it dry; chop and stew it in butter and cream, adding a little salt, sugar, and citron. Bake in puff paste. Lettuce, spinach, beet, parsley, leeks in equal quantities; a small onion chopped, a leaf or two of sage, butter, pepper, and salt, eggs, groats, a little flour and water, milk or cream, bread crumbs, etc. A mixture of any of these may be made into a pie as above, more fluid being added when the mixture is not sufficiently moist. Savoury Fies. 429. 1. Plain cold omelet cut in small pieces; tapioca washed and steeped in water ten or fifteen minutes. Butter a pie dish, spread a layer of tapioca on the bottom, then a layer of the omelet, and continue the layers of tapioca and omelet till the dish is nearly full; add also seasoning and a few small pieces of butter ; cover the whole with a good crust and bake. A few sliced potatoes or mushrooms may be added. The above may also be baked in small dishes or in patty pans lined with puff paste, or in a raised crust. 430. 2. Common hasty pudding, mixed with onion, sage, and other herbs, a little butter, pepper, and salt. Line patty pans