VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 210 thickness of the bottom crust; trim the paste from the sides, and divide the top into small squares. Bake in a moderate oven, then sift loaf sugar over. Banbury and Eccles Cakes are thus made. 413. Tarts are formed by lining small tins with paste, filling them up with fruit, and then covering them with paste. Raspberries and a few red currants, preserves, young goose- berries, etc., are generally used for tarts. Tarts may also be made thus : roll out a good paste about a quarter of an inch thick, cut it into round cakes with a tin cutter, about three inches in diameter; then cut a piece out of half the number of cakes with a cutter about two inches in diameter, leaving a rim or border about half an inch broad; wet the edges of the cakes with as little water as possible, and lay the rims of paste on each cake; bake them in a moderately hot oven; lay them on a dish, and when quite cold, put preserved fruit in each tart. 414. Tartlets or " Tourtes " are made by rolling out puff or other paste a quarter of an inch thick, and lining small patty-pans or plates with it. Trim the edges, and then put in any kind of jam, marmalade, or preserved fruit. Ornament the border if there be one ; string the fruit with paste (194) in various figures, and bake from six to ten minutes, in a quick oven. They should be very lightly browned. 415. Meringues are tarts covered with beaten white of egg and sugar, instead of paste, and baked in a moderate oven. Mix eight ounces of finely sifted loaf sugar as lightly as possi- ble with eight whites of eggs whisked to a strong froth, and flavour it with any essence you please. Line patty pans with puff paste, put in preserve, and cover it with the whites of eggs and sugar. Bake in a moderate oven. Or, half fill a pie dish with apples, rhubarb, or other fruit, which has been stewed with a little butter and sugar; cover the fruit while warm with the beaten whites and sugar, and sprinkle a little sugar over ; place the dish in a slow oven, until a pale brown and stifi' crust has been formed. If the oven be too hot, the meringue will be spoiled. 416. To prepare fruit for pies, see 285.