VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 124 Crumpets. 137. The mixture as for rolls, to which add one egg, and use sufficient new milk to make a smooth thick batter. Set it to rise, and when ready add the egg well beaten, and as much more milk as may be necessaiy to render the whole a rather thick batter; beat out the lumps, but the less it is beaten the better; cover it and set it to rise. "When well risen, nearly fill a common sized tea-cup with the batter taken from the top (it must not be stirred up), and pour it upon a bake-stone or iron plate rubbed over with a little butter, and placed over a clear and moderate fire ; as soon as the batter appears to set, turn it over with a tin slice, the size of the crumpet; when slightly browned, turn it again on a cooler part of the stone, then pour more batter, taken from the top, upon the hottest part of the stone, taking care it does not burn. As the crumpets are baked, lay them on a clean cloth, cover them lightly with another cloth, but do not lay them upon each other till nearly cold. Either toast them lightly, or lay them on a cake tin, and cover them with a clean wet cloth; set them in the oven, and, when heated through, butter them. Muffins. 138. To the roll mixture add, butter one ounce and one egg. Prepare the dough or sponge as atll5(/.; when well risen heat it twenty minutes with a wooden spoon, form the dough into balls on a board well dredged with flour ; cover a tray with a cloth, also well dredged, and lay the halls on the cloth, at such a distance from each other as to prevent them running together ; cover them with another cloth, and place them before the fire for twenty minutes; then lay them on a heated plate or stone, arrange the shape and bake quickly. Turn each muffin as the bottom begins to change colour. Eice flour, etc. may be used as for rolls. Bread Muffins. 139. Take four slices of baiters' bread, and cut off all the crust Lay them in a pan, and pour boiling water over them, only just sufficient to soak them well. Cover the vessel with a cloth and when it has stood an hour, drain off the water, and stir the soaked bread till the mass is quite smooth, then mix in