44 VEGETABIAN COOKERY, French salads, -with cream, oil, vinegar, salt, hard-boiled eggs, etc. It is excellent when stewed, and is frequently used in Tegetable soups. Galen employed boiled lettuce, when fatigued or exhausted by labour, in order to procure tranquil sleep. " Lettuce abounds in a cooling, bland, pellucid juice; but the more advanced plant contains a bitter, milky juice, which has a slight tendency to promote sleep. Hence lettuce leaves are eaten at supper by those troubled with watchfulness." Endive.—The leaves are the only parts used, and these only "when blanched to diminish the natural bitterness of taste. It is one of our best autumn, winter, and spring salads, and is also stewed like lettuce. Succory.—The leaves are blanched and used as a winter salad. In Belgium the roots are scraped, boiled, and eaten along with potatoes, or with a sauce of butter and vinegar. Dandelion, tarragon, mustard, cresses, purslane, chervil, rape, corn-salad, the radish, etc. Silver Beet.—The mid ribs may be stewed as celery, and the soft part of the leaf used as spinach. Respecting the aromatic herbs, see 55. 43. All vegetables should be gathered on a dry diy, but not when the heat of the sun is very strong upon them. In general they should be used as fresh as possible, but artichokes are said to be improved by being kept two or three days before they are used. Green vegetables should not be put in water for the purpose of keeping them fresh, as it would dissolve and destroy some of their juices; they should be 1 ud on a brick or stone floor, in a cool place, and not divested of their outer leaves till they are wanted. The best way of refreshing them is to cut off a portion of the stem and set the cut part in water, of which the vegetable will then absorb a portion to supply the leaves and make up for what has been lost by evaporation. When about to use them, remove all dead, tough, coarse, and useless leaves; if perfectly clean and free from insects they need not be washed, but cabbages, cauliflowers, and headed broccoli should lie an hour or more in spring water, with a little salt. Before boiling them shake them well in a colander, so as to remove all the cold water