110 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. added to produce a light and porous mass. Carrots also may be used instead of eggs in making plum-pudding, etc. A few other substances added to flour by bakers for various purposes must be here noticed. Alum is very generally used by them to improve the appearance of bread by rendering it whiter and firmer, and less apt to crumble when cut. The smallest quantity of alum which can be employed to produce these effects is from three to four ounces to a sack of flour weighing 280 pounds. The use of this article should be discountenanced. Carbonate of Magnesia has been recommended by Mr. E. Davy, as an excellent substance for neutralizing the acidity produced during the fermentation of bad flour, in the proportion of from twenty to forty grains of it to one pound of flour. A small quantity of magnesia cannot be considered an injurious addition to bread, but, in ordinary cases, it ought to be regarded as not essential when the quality of the flour is good. . The best addition to flour which has suffered from moisture is lime-water, which neutralizes the acid that has been formed, destroys the musty flavour, and restores the sweetness of the flour. It is also quite wholesome. Water saturated with lime is preferable to alum for rendering bread white, moist, and soft; it is said to act by coagulating the gluten of the wheat. Sesquicarbonate of Ammonia, or volatile salt, also improves flour which has been slightly damaged. It removes any acidity which may exist either from the inferior quality of the flour, or from the ferment, but it does not improve the colour like alum or lime-water. It is broken up by heat into carbonic acid, ammoma, and bicarbonate of ammonia, all which are volatile in the oven. Thou-h the odour of ammonia is evolved in the kneading, and the taste of the dough becomes saline, these characteristics are lost during the baking, the free alkali being disengaged, and the bread made lighter. ^v,„^of„r The powder may be mixed with the flour, or dissolved m the water used to make the flour into dough. The curl of the oak-leaved cracknels is said to be produced by this salt. It is regularly mlpd I the formation of a peculiar kind of small biscuit and sometimes in the proportion of half an ounce to a pound of flour.