TO rUESEHVE FRUIT POR PUTURE USE. 69 decay and spoil the sound fruit in contact with them ; they should be g'athered on a fine dry day, free from morning or evening dew, - and before they are quite ripe. Such as have a bloom upon them should not be wiped, unless necessary to remove dust or other impurities, and the process of preserving should be commenced on ! the day the fruit are taken. The" fruit room should be dry. of a low and equal temperature, and excluded as much as possible from the light. The conditions more or less necessary for the spontaneous I decomposition of vegetable substances are moisture, atmospheric I air or oxygen, and a tempeiature between the freezing and boiling points of water. Substances which contain no nitrogen, such as pure sugar, starch, gum, oil, etc., will not ferment or decay. All nitrogenous compounds, under favourable circumstances, not ouly undergo r;ipicl fermentation themselves, but have the power of disturbing the elements of non-nitrogenous bodies with which they are in contact. 1. Organic substances, when perfectly dry, are incapable of decomposition at the ordinary temperature of the atmosphere ; hence fruit may be preserved by desiccation or abstraction of tlie moisture ; as figs, dates, grapes, and plums : the two latter being I converted by drying into raisins and prunes. I 2. The presence of atmospheric ;iir or oxygen facilitates putre- faction, hence the advantage of bottling fruit, first rarefying or ' driving ofi' the idr by heat, and then corking the bottles tightly, etc. (74). Though putrefaction cannot take place if air be thorougldij excluded, yet the smallest quantity of oxygen present is sufficient to produce a commencement of putrefaction, and after the process 1 has commenced, it proceeds whether air be present or not. 3. A certain temperature is always requisite for the decomposi- tion of organic bodies; consequently, they may be preserved by keeping them constantly below the freezing point. 4. Fermentation and chemical changes may also be prevented by certain antiseptic substances, as sugar, vinegar, salt, charcoal, chlorine gas, etc. ; thus are formed preserves, jams, fruit-moulds, jellies, pickles, etc.