VEGETAKIAN COOKERY. 28 of sight, smell, and taste, as regards quality, and a natural appetite as regards quantity, are at present, and probably ever will be, our safest guides. True science and pure instinct speak the same language, and lead to like results; thus, peas, beans, and other leguminous seeds, in their dried state at least, contain an excess of nitrogen, and their flavour is disagreeable; but mix them with starchy or carbonaceous products, as rice, potatoes, butter, etc., in certain proportions, and you will produce a compound at once pleasant to the palate, and well adapted to nutrition. See 275 to 278. ON THE VEGETABLE AND ANIMAL PRODUCTS USED IN VEGETARIAN DIET. 18. The articles used as food by Vegetarians may be classed under the following heads:—1. Fruits; 2, Seeds; 3, Roots, Tubers, and Siems; 4, Bulbous Roots or Buds, and Young; Shoots; 5, Leaves, Leaf-stalks, and Bracts; 6, Flowerless Plants; 7, the Animal Products—Milk, Cream, Butter, Cheese, Curds, and Eggs. (1.) Fextets. 19. Fruits, whether raw, cooked, dried, or preserved, are very wholesome, and should always form a part of Vegetarian diet, especially at the two principal meals, breakfast and dinner. They contain from 70 to 90 per cent, of water, and the remainder consists chiefly of legumine, gum, pectine, and sugar, together with malic and other vegetable acids, and a small portion of nitrogenous matter. The sugar in ripe fruit is from 10 to 20 per cent., in dried figs 62 per cent. The amount of starch and azotized principles being small, they should, in cold climates, be eaten with bread, or other farinaceous products, otherwise the muscular tissue and animal heat will in general be imperfectly supported. Fruit has frequently been charged with producing indigestion, cholera, and other serious diseases; there is, however, no neces- sary connexion between fruit and disease, and, when taken judiciously, it is highly conducive to a healthy state of the secretions. The following precautions should be observed: