247 SAUCES. butter in a frying-pan or saucepan, add the flour and stir the mixture till it is of a brown colour; add as much boiling water as will render it of the consistency of thin cream ; season with pepper and salt. Add a little browning and ketchup. (b.) Or, boil the flour and water with a little salt, then add it to the hot butter in the frying-pan, add also browning and ketchup, and let it simmer for five minutes, stirring it all the time. Moux or Browning, 517. (a.) Put two ounces of powdered sugar into a stew- pan, which place over a slow fire; when it begins to dissolve stir it with a wooden spoon till it is becoming black, then set it in a moderate oven upon a trivet for about twenty minutes, pour a pint of cold water over it, and as soon as it is well dissolved bottle it for use. It will keep a few weeks. {b.) Or, spread flour on a tin or dish, colour it without burning it in a gentle oven, or before the fire in a Dutch or American oven; turn it frequently that the whole may be equally browned. This blended with butter is a convenient thickening for soups and sauces when a deep colour is required. (c.) Or, put either fresh or clarified butter into a saucepan over a slow fire; when the butter is dissolved stir in with a wooden spoon two ounces of bro-wn flour; stir the whole con- stantly till it is quite smooth nnd of a yellowish light brown. If done too quickly over a hot fire it will become bitter. It may be kept a fortnight in summer, and longer in winter, in a covered earthen jar. A large table-spoonful will be sufficient for a quart of sauce. {d.) Dissolve very slowli/ eight ounces of butter, skim it and allow the sediment to settle; then pour off the clear part into a stew-pan, and, while over a clear but gentle fire, dredge in very gradually nearly four ounces of well dried floui-, and shake the pan often as the flour is added ; stir the thickening constantly till it is of a clear light brown colour. Unless it be prepared very slowly and equally it will be spoiled. If intended for white soups or sauces, the thickening must not be allowed to become brown in the least degree.