CUSTARDS, BLANC-MANGES, FRUIT CREAMS, ETC. 207 together for an hour, or until it will stand firmly. It may be eaten with moulded rice, etc. 401. Easpherries or other fruit one pound, or twelve ounces of their juice; sugar four to eight ounces; cream one pint. Boil the cream and dissolve the sugar in the juice of the fruit; mix them with the boiling cream; stir till the whole is rather thick, then poTir it into glasses. 402. Apples sis; whites of eggs six ; sugar four ounces. Stew the fruit, and pass it through a sieve; beat the whites to a froth, with the sugar; beat the fruit to a froth, and add it to the whites; then whisk the whole till it becomes pretty firm ; heap it high on a dish, or lay it over stewed apples or trifle. 403. Raspberry jelly one-eighth of a pint; sugar one ounce and a half; cream half a pint nearly; isinglass three-eighths of an ounce. See 394. Boil the isinglass in the cream ; strain it into a basin, and let it remain till cool, but not set; mix the cream and juice together, and whisk the whole till it begins to stiffen; put it in moulds, and let it stand till the following day. For moulds of a similar kind see Farinacea in Moulds, 209. 404. The juice of six oranges and a little of the rind; sugar four ounces; water half a pint; isinglass one ounce. Dis- solve the isinglass in the water, adding also the juice, rind. And sugar; beat the whole till nearly firm and cool; put it into a mould, and turn it out next day. If lemons be substituted for the oranges, add more sugar. 405. The thin rind of two lemons, and the juice of three; isinglass one ounce ; cold water one pint; loaf sugar twelve ounces; whites of eggs two. ^ Put the isinglass in the water, let it stand five minutes; then dissolve it over the fire, adding the sugar and the juice and rinds of the lemons, thinly pared; boil the whole two or three minutes, strain, and let it stand till nearly cold; add the whites of eggs well beaten, and whisk for about half an hour. Put it lightly into a glass dish, giving it a rough or rocky appearance. 406. Cream one pint; sugar to taste; lemon one. Squeeze the juice of the lemon into a large basin; add the grated peel and the pounded sugar; mix them well, and pour the