81 PRESEEVES. until the juice has been extracted The sugar will sink without being dissolved. Boil the juice and sugar together for twenty minutes after simmering has commenced; then add the rhubarb, and boil the whole twenty minutes longer. The preserve need not be stirred, if boiled slowly. The rhubarb and sugar do not require a warm place to draw out the juice. Oreen Apricots. 89. Select them just before they are ripe, arrange them in a pan in layers, with plenty of vine or spinach leaves under, over, and between them ; fill the pan with spring water and cover it up close. Heat the water very gradually, and keep it at a moderate heat for several hours, or until the fruit becomes tender, but not cracked; then remove the fruit very carefully. Make a thin syrup with some of the water, using one pound of sugar to a pint and a half of water; when cold, pour it on the fruit and complete the operation by 78 c. If the fruit be not green enough, a small piece of alum may be boiled in the syrup. PHESERVES WITH SuGAE AND GiNGEE. Cucumbers^ Melons, Vegetable Marrow, and Lettuce Stalks. 90. Choose cucumbers of a middle size, green, and as free as possible from seeds. Put them in a jar with a strong solution of salt in water; cover them with a cabbage leaf to keep them down, and tie paper over the top. Set the jar in a warm oven till the cucumbers become yellow ; wash them and set them over the fire in fresh water with a little salt in it, and place a fresh cabbage leaf over them ; cover the pan very close, but take care the water does not boil. If the cucumbers are not sufficiently green, change the water, cover and heat as before ; or add a little alum, vine leaves, parsley, or spinach, or the juice .of the latter. "When of a good colour, let them stand till cold ; put them in cold spring water for two days, changing the water twice a day to remove the salt; they will then be ready for the syrup, They may also be cut in two, and the seeds and pulp removed. When lettuces are running to seed, take the stalks while 6