BREAD 117 The maize meal may be kneaded to the dough of the wheat after it has been raised by the yeast. It Is better, however, to boil the Indian meal for two or three hours, and then mix it with the wheat meal (27). The pea or bean meal is rendered much milder if steeped in water, or boiled, previously to mixing it with the wheat meal. Potatoes assist fermentation and render the dough lighter. Boil or steam the potatoes, then bruise them well and dry them ; pass them through a wire sieve, and use the flour in the proportion of one pound to two pounds of wheat meal. Or, take the same quantity of potato-fibre from which the starch has been removed,^ wash it in two waters, place it for an hour on a sieve to drain; add to it in its raw state the usual quantity of yeast, water, and salt, let it stand an hour, then work it well with the flour. It will require very little water, but a longer time to rise. Or mash smoothly three or four well boiled potatoes; add as much hot water as will make a batter; then add gradually a small plate full of warm flour and the yeast, beating the whole well. Place the mixture before the fire for two hours or less, and when well risen, proceed to make the bread with it in the usual way. Apples.—Take from two to four pounds of meal or flour of wheat and one pound of apples; pare, core, and bake or stew the apples with a little water, then beat them up warm with the yeast, etc., let the dough rise eight or ten hours, then make it up into long loaves or rolls and bake in a slow oven. Little or no "water will be necessary. Or, peel and core the apples and boil them till tender; pulp them through a coarse sieve and mix them with twice their weight of dough, made of wheat meal or flour. Carrots, Farsneps, Beet and Mangel-wurzel.—Take three pounds of any one of these roots to four pounds of wheat meal or flour ; wash or scrape, and then grate the root to a pulp; it is also advisable to rub it through a sieve ; add the yeast, etc., and about three quarters of the flour. Let the dough stand two hours and a half, and when it has risen, add the remaining flour, knead it well, and proceed as before directed. Take equal quantities of Indian meal, rice, and good baking ap- ples. Soak the Indian meal for two hours, and remove everything that floats on the top of the water. Boil each of the three separately,