141 BOILED MEAL, PLOCR, ETC. Easty Pudding and Burgout. 201 Meal or flour eight ounces; water or milk one pint. Into the boiling milk stir the flour gradually, let it boil a few minutes, during which time it should be constantly stirred and beaten. A little salt, an egg, a little butter and sugar, or seasoning, according to taste, may be added. Two bay leaves may be first boiled in the milk, then removed, and the yolk of an egg, beaten up with a spoonful or two of milk. In this manner may be used Indian meal, oatmeal, etc. A pint of water gradually added to eight ounces of oatmeal, the whole made quite smooth, and then boiled a quarter of an hour, is called burgout. Butter, salt, pepper, etc., may be added as above. Porridge, Stirabout, Polenta, etc. 202. Wheat meal, oatmeal, Indian meal, semolina, ground rice, polenta, hominy, etc., three or four ounces ; water one pint. Boil the water, and add a little salt, about the one-sixteenth of an ounce, sprinkle in the meal very gradually and carefully, till of a sufficient consistency; stir it well all the time with a porridge- stick, which should be an inch or more broad at the bottom ; boil gently fifteen or twenty minutes. Add a little more boiling water, and boil it five minutes longer; this renders it smoother. Pour it on plates or into moulds, and serve with treacle, milk, preserve, etc. The usual way is to make a hole in the middle, with the spoon, add a piece of butter as large as a nutmeg, and upon it a spoonful of brown sugar or treacle Eat it from the circumference, and dip each spoonful in the butter and sugar. Or, spread a small quantity of butter over it, then sprinkle coarsely powdered cheese over it. Every particle of meal should be stirred into the boiling fluid with one hand, as fast as it reaches the surface from the other, or it will run into knots ; the boiling also should be well sustained all the time. Fine meal requires more water than coarse, and the latter requires more boiling. The more finely the meal is granu- lated the better, provided it runs freely from the fingers by the assistance of the thumb.