87 FRUIT JELLIES. throuo-h a sieve. Boil briskly to a dry paste, and for each pound add seven ounces of powdered sugar, and boil twenty-five to thirty minutes longer. Apple Moulds, etc. 98. Apples, after having been pared, quartered, and cored, may be boiled in four-fifths or two-thirds their weight of plum or currant juice, till nearly dry, (a few raspberries may be mixed if at hand), add the sugar and boil ten minutes longer, or until quite dry enough to be formed into a mould. Several kinds of fruit may be mixed together, as apples, pears, plums, etc., in equal quantities. Carrots may be scraped or pared, then boiled till tender, mashed fine, and passed through a hair-sieve; boil the pulp half an hour and add sugar equal to the original weight of the carrots ; add also the juice of lemons, or other flavouring. (4.) Fktjit Jellies. 99. Jellies consist of the juice or pectine of fruit (8) boiled with sugar. Remove the stalks of plums, cunantd, etc.; pare, quarter, and core apples, quinces, etc., and put them as they are cut into clean water, to prevent them changing colour. Eed apples are sometimes not pared, in order that a little colour may be imparted to the jelly. Make au incision with a knife in buUaces, damsons, and other hardy kinds of fruit. Put any of the fruits thus prepared into a clean stone jar, or enamelled stew-pan, adding to apples, quinces, unripe gooseberries, etc., from half a pint to a pint of spring water for every pound of fruit. Cover the jar with bladder, or one or two folds of thick paper; place it in a rather cool oven during the night; or in a deep pan of water, to be gradually heated; or place the stew-pan containing the fruit very high over a clear fire; stir the fruit with a wooden or silver spoon whilst it simmers, from a few minutes to three hours, according to the nature of the fruit, or until the fruit is quite soft, and has yielded all its juice. Care should be taken to remove it from the fire before it becomes thick or pulpy. Turn the whole into a clean, dry sieve, jelly-bag, or double muslin