ARTICLES USED IN VEGETAKIAN DIET. 35 particularly those who have derangemeiits of the stomach and howels, and when proper attention is paid to the quality of the meal and the cookery, it is generally highly agreeable to them." Pulse made from the ordinary kinds of meal may produce flatulency, but the finer qualities of meal will have no such effect. Beans.—The bean agrees in dietetic properties with the pea, but is less agreeable and rather more difficult of digestion; it is therefore seldom used by man iu its ripe state. In the green state, the garden bean is used as a constituent of broths, and other culinary preparations; and, when deprived of its envelop forms an agreeable and digestible addition. Kidney Beans.—The immature pods of kidney beans are well known as a delicate and highly esteemed vegetable, and the ripe seeds, known by the name of haricots, prepared in various ways, are an excellent edible. The dwarf white is extensively cultivated in France for the latter purpose, and the seeds of Dutch runners, which are larger and of a superior quality, are made into a kind of soup, which is held in much esteLin in HoUind. Lentils.—These have long been in repute on the continent, but it is only lately that they have been much, used as human food in England. When deprived of the skin and split, or ground into meal, they are an excellent addition to soups. Farinaceous Frcparations. 29. Numberless farinaceous preparations are obtained by combining the meal or flour of two or more of the preceding grains, as well as that derived from roots and other sources Fensham's Farinaceous Food.—Three parts wheat-flour, and one part barley-meal intimately mixed. Place the mixture in tins lined with paper, put them in an oven, heated to about 200° F. for three hours. Care should be taken not to brown the mixture; it may then be kept without becoming sour or musty, and makes excellent puddings. It loses from 25 to 30 per cent, in weight by being thus heated. Hard's Farinaceous iv^ofi?.—Wheat-flour, baked. Leath's Alimentary i^ariHa —Wheat-flour slightly baked and sweetened with sugar, together with potato-flour, and a very small quantity of ludian-coru meal and tapioca.