SEEDS, OR CEREAL CHAINS. 93 (c ) Creed grain may also be eaten with white sauce or onion sauce, or fried bread crumbs, or butter and grated cheese, etc Lemon juice, cinnamon, or other seasoning may be added according to taste, a short time before the creemg is completed Two-thirds of rice and one-third of Scotch barley are a good mixture, but they should be creed separately, as the barley requires' a longer time than the rice. (d) Stew eio-ht ounces of rice half an hour gently in milk, add eio-ht ounces of%ugar, let it stew till dry and rather tender; then stir into it two ounces of blanched and pounded almonds, and turn the whole into shallow dishes or soup-plates, shaking it till the surface is smooth. Sift over it freshly powdered cinnamon or allspice, and serve it cold. One or two bitter almonds pounded with the sweet ones may be added, and a few spoonfuls of cream instead of as much milk, when the rice is three parts done. (e.) Mice Salls.-Cvee the rice in milk, beat a little butter to a cream, then add eggs and grated lemon peel, stir in the rice till it is just stiff enough to be made into balls, which boil in milk and serve with raspberry sauce; or roll them in beaten egg, then in bread erumbs; fry and drain them, and serve them covered with sugar. (/.) Eice and Oatmeal.—Boil eight ounces of rice in a pint of water, and as the water becomes absorbid, add gradually two quarts more;' add also half a table spoonful of sugar and a whole one of salt; then stir in eight ounces of oatmeal, and let the whole boil twenty minutes; this will make more than four pounds of good wholesome food. If preferred sweet, add two ounces of sugar or treacle; if savoury, add salt and pepper, chopped onion, etc. Revalenta, or the meal from peas, barley, maize, etc., may be used instead of the oatmeal. {(/.) Rice and Onions.—Take eight ounces of rice, two middle sized onions chopped flue, and a little salt; boil them briskly in a pint and half of water, in a covered pan, about fifteen minutes, or till the rice is tender, and the water absorbed. Let the pan remain near the fire till the whole is dry, and season with pepper and salt. (h.) Rice and Apj^les.—Stew eight ounces of rice in water, add half an ounce of butter and half an ounce of sugar. Peel, slice, I