VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 70 (1.) To DEr Feuit without Stjgae. 72. The pulp7 fruits, such as gooseberries nearly ripe, cherries, etc., should be spread, without contact with each other, on sieves, tins, or dishes, and dried in the sun, or before the fire ; they may be placed occasionally in a cool oven. Change the dishes daily, and place cherries with the stalks upward. Kentish cherries are considered best for this purpose, but morellas answer very well. Damsons should be dried gradually, by placing them in a cool oven, on tins or dishes, covered with thin coarse cloths. "When sufficiently dried, damsons, cherries, etc., should be put in boxes, with white paper between the layers of fruit, and protected as much as possible from the air. Apples and pears should be placed in an oven at a low tempera- ture, six or seven times, and allowed to remain in the oven several hours each time. The oven should be very cool at the commence- ment. Flatten the apples by pressure, gently and gradually applied, 80 as not to break the skins. When required for use they should be stewed for an hour or more with a little water and sujar. The "Norfolk Biffins," Minchall crabs, or any tart apples or hard pears, are the best for drying. Apples pared and cut in small pieces as soon as gathered, and then thoroughly dried in the sun, may be kept for several years. The art of preserving all kinds of vegetables, by drying them in chambers, thi'ough which cun-ents of heated air pass, has been brought to great perfection in France. When thus preserved they appear dry and shrivelled up, like strips of thick parchment or leather, but when cooked they swell out to their usurI size. Peas, beans, kidney beans, cabbages, cauliflowers, beet, carrots, etc., may be preserved by first boiling them till tender, and then drying them in a warm airy place, when they may be kept for a considerable time in bags or boxes. Beet, carrots, and other roots should be cut in slices. (2.) To Stoee or Peeseeve Fetjit by Exclttding THE AlE. 73. Some kinds of fruit require more protection from air and light than others. Apples and winter-pears should be kept