113 BREAD. The white of an egg beaten up with the first portion of water will render the effect more certain. Some recommend a few clean hot cinders from the fire to be put into the yeast if it is bitter or not very fresh ; when the cinders are cold they will fall to the bottom, and the yeast must then be poured ofi" and strained. Eecently burnt charcoal, which the cinders represent, absorbs gases, and removes colouring and odorous matters generally from substances to which it is added. By changing the water daily in winter, and twice a day in very hot weather, yeast may be preserved fit for use much longer than if this precaution were neglected. The richer the dough the more yeast it requires; fat hinders fermentation; sugar in moderate quantity accelerates it, but when added in excess retards it, unless more yeast be added. A small portion of brown sugar stirred into yeast before the bread is made will restore the strengtli when it has ceased to ferment freely. A tea-spoonful of sugar will be sufficient for two table-spoon- fuls of solid yeast, and a little warm flour will further help the fermentation. Rapid fermentation, caused by using too large a quantity of yeast, is a disadvantage, as the bread sooner becomes dry, and the flavour is not so good as by a slower process. A small quantity of yeast will be equally efliicaeious as a large one, provided the dough be permitted to ferment longer. Soft water is the best for making bread, and the water, milk, or other fluid employed should be added at a temperature of about blood heat, 80째 or 90째 Fah., and the dough should be kept as warm as new milk, or between 60째 and 70째 ; if kept warmer, or permitted to remain too long in a warm place, the dough will become sour ; should acidity take place a solution of sub-carbonate of soda should be worked in to neutralize it. Skimmed milk, new milk with an ounce of butter dissolved in it, a few spoonfuls of cream, or sweet butter milk, may be substi- tuted for the whole or part of the water, and the bread will be enriched by it; but it will become dry sooner. "When milk is used, the dough should bo made lighter by the addition of more fluid. 8