CAKES, BISCUITS, ETC. 129 155. Short Cakes.—Flour sixteen ounces; butter four to eight ounces ; one egg ; sugar four ounces. Beat the egg with a little water; mix and roll the paste into little balls, flatten them and bake them dry and crisp. A little cream may supply the place of a portion of the butter; currants, caraway seeds, etc., may be added. 156. Benton Tea Cakes.—Flour sixteen ounces; butter four to eight ounces ; add sufficient milk and roll the cakes thin; bake in a pan or on tins in an oven. 157. Imperials.—Flour sixteen ounces ; butter four to eight ounces; eggs one to four; sugar eight to twelve ounces. Add currants six ounces, candied peel and the grated rind of a lemon. Flour a tin lightly, and with a couple of forks place the paste upon it in small rough pieces, two inches apart. Bake them in a very gentle oven, fifteen or twenty minutes, or until they are of a pale brown colour. They are called Jumballs when the paste is rolled out, cut into narrow shreds, and formed into rings or knots, etc. Bake them rather quickly. 158. Snow Cakes.—YloMx sixteen ounces: butter four to eiffht ounces; whites of eggs four; sugar four to eight ounces. Add a few drops of essence of lemon and use potato flour instead of wheat flour. Beat the butter to a cream; whisk the eggs well aud mix them gradually with the butter ; beat in the flour, then the sugar (116 e). Beat the whole well and pour it into a very shallow buttered pan (earthenware is preferable to tin), and bake very slowly. It must not be browned either at top or bottom, and when baked it should be cut into pieces before it is taken out of the pan to prevent its being broken. "When properly baked, it is very attractive in its appearance. 159. A Rich Plain Cake.—YloMx sixteen ounces; butter eight ounces ; one egg; sugar eight ounces. Add currants twelve ounces; citron, orange peel, nutmeg. 160. Scotch Bread.—YloMx sixteen ounces; butter eight ounces; sugar eight ounces; almonds four ounces; candied lemon two ounces. Form the whole into cakes about half an inch thick. 161. Venetian Cakes.—Ylonx sixteen ounces; butter eio-ht ounces; sugar eight ounces; yolks of eggs four; almonds seven ounces; bitter almonds one ounce 9