136 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. (2.) Cream Crust. 185. Mix a little salt with sixteen ounces of flour, and add gradually sufficient cream to form a smooth paste. It may be made richer by adding from four to six ounces of butter rolled in as above. Handle the pastry lightly, and put in the oven as soon as ready. (3.) Short Crust. 186. Flour sixteen ounces; butter six to eight ounces; yolks of eggs two to four; sugar one to two ounces; water a large wine-glassful if necessary. Eub the butter and flour well together on a slab; make a hole in the centre, in which put the sugar, eggs, and water; mix them well, then draw in the flour; mix and work the whole lightly. Some recommend the following method: Eub the butter and flour together till they break into crumbs, add the salt and sugar, and mix them into a rather stifi" paste, with as little water as possible, adding it by degrees. This paste may be either used for pies or made into cakes and baked in an oven or frying pan. When less butter is used, milk or cream may be substituted f^r the whole or part of the water. When yolks of eggs and cream are used, beat the yolks well, mix them with the water and strain; then add them with the cream to the flour and sugar, etc., as above. For savoury pies and puddings, a little chopped parsley, onion, thyme, or mushrooms may be substituted for the sugar. A Good Short and Wholesome Crust. 187. Flour sixteen ounces; butter three to four ounces; baking powder one tea-spoonful; water rather less than half a pint. Mix the baking powder intimately with the flour, well dried ; rub in the butter, then add the water and mix the whole with a wooden spoon without kneading it; take it from the bowl and roll it, fold it in three, and roll it again, and, if not sufficiently smooth roll it a third time. The addition of a little cream would be an improvement. This crust, when well made, is very agree- able and wholesome; it is light without being rich, differs little from good bread, and, with attention, any one may sue-