161 MUSHROOMS. MUSHROOMS. 263. Cut off the stems, and if the mushrooms are young and tender clean them with a hit of new flannel and some fine salt, and dry them with a soft cloth; or rince them in fresh water and drain them quickly; spread them on a clean cloth, fold it over them, and leave them ten minutes or more to dry. If the mush- rooms are old, or the skins firm, they should be peeled. (a.) For every pint of mushrooms thus prepared, put an ounce and a half of butter into a thick iron saucepan ; shake it over the fire till the btitter just begins to brown, put in the mushrooms, and continue to shake the saucepan over a clear fire, whilst they simmer three or four minutes; strew in a little salt, cayenne, and powdered mace ; then stew the mushrooms till quite tender, and serve them with their own sauce only. They are very good when drained from the butter and served cold, and may be kept for several days in a cool larder. The butter in which they have been stewed is excellent for flavouring gravies. After stewing them as above, with a little more spice, drain them from the butter, and when cold pack them closely in a pot. Pour lukewarm clarified butter thickly over them, and store them in a cool place. Mushrooms should be very tender, or carefully masticated, otherwise they will pass the stomach undigested, and may cause much inconvenience (44). (b.) Prepare them as above, then put them with the hollow side upwards in a tin ; place a small piece of butter on each, season with pepper and salt, and place them in an oven where they should remain till rather brown; remove the mushrooms and pour a little water (in which the stalks and peel have been boiled) into the tin, and when boiling add it to the mushrooms. (c.) Toast some bread half an inch thick; take some Devonshire cream, or butter; or milk reduced to the thickness of cream by boiling with a little pepper, salt, and one clove; whilst warm put in an ounce of butter mixed with a little flour, stir the whole round; then put the mushrooms and this sauce upon the toast, cover the whole with a basin, and bake half an hour in a baking pan or on a dish; let the mushrooms remain covered by the basin for a few minutes after they have been removed from the oven. U