TEGETARIAN COOKERY. 88 strainer, that the juice may be drained from the pulp, but do not use pressure. If the juice be thick, pass it through the strainer a second time, "Weigh or measure the juice, and then boil it rapidly in a clean preserving pan; if obtained from raspberries five minutes; currants or gooseberries eight to fifteen minutes; plums, apples, quinces, and strawberries twenty to twenty-five minutes; stir and skim the juice during the whole time it is boiling. Eemove the pan from the fire, and for every pint of juice, as measured before boiling, have ready from twelve to sixteen ounces of refined sugar, or half a pound of sugar to a pound of juice ; bruise the sugar fine, and heat it by placing it on a dish in the oven; then stir it into the juice till entirely dissolved. Boil the juice again quickly from two to twenty minutes, or until it jellies strongly on the spoon or skimmer, clearing it also well from the scum. If boiled too long, the juice will lose its power of gelatinizing (8). Clarified syrup is said to be preferable to sugar, as it produces no additional scum. A little lemon juice maybe added to apple jelly two minutes previously to removing it finally from the fire. Pour the jelly into glasses or moulds. Jellies may also be made by taking a pound of syrup for every pound of juice ; boil the syrup to caramel, that is, till it falls in thick white masses from the skimmer; then pour in the juice im- mediately, and boil the whole from five to twenty minutes, clearing ofiP the scum as it rises. Jams may be formed in the same way. Jellies are usually formed from the following fruits: Straw- berries, raspberries, blackberries, grapes, plums, barberries, goose- berries (green or ripe), currants (red, white, and black), apples, quinces, Siberian crabs. Siberian Crab Jelly. 100. Siberian crabs one pound and a half; water one pint. Boil the fruit till broken ; strain and weigh the juice, then boil it quickly ten minutes; add ten ounces of sugar to each pound of juice, and boil again from twelve to fifteen minutes. The following are considered good mixtures: — Eipe gooseberry juice three pounds; white or red currant juice one pound.