54 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. Orange and lemon peel, bay and laurel leaves, orange flowers, and cliocolate. Parsley, common thyme, lemon thyme, orange thyme, knotted marjorum, sage, mint, winter-savory, sweet basil, tarragon, tansy, chervil, burnet, fennel, mushrooms. Acrid or Pungent.—Mustard, horse-radish, cayenne, onions, eschalots, garlic, leeks. Saline; Salt. —About a teaspoonful of salt to a pound of sugar is said to improve the latter (134). Much salt, especially to persons of a gouty habit, is injurious, and assists to form lithate of soda or chalk stones in the joints. The volatile oil contained in many of the above-mentioned substances stimulates the system, but does not become incorpo- rated with the organism, and is soon ejected, retaining its characteristic odour. Chervil seems to combine the flavours of both parsley and fennel, but is more aromatic and agreeable than either. To Flavour Milk with Cocoa Nut, etc. 56. Pare off the rind and grate the nut on a fine and very clean grater; add 3 oz. to a quart of milk ; raise the temperature gradually, and let the milk simmer very gently for about 45 minutes; then strain it through a very fine sieve or cloth, press- ing the milk well from the nut. Milk thus flavoured may be used for blancmange, custards, puddings, light cakes, or bread. The milk contained in the cocoa nut, when sweet, may be added, to obtain which, pierce the end of the nut with a gimlet, draw off the milk, and then break the shell with a hammer. The rinds of lemons and oranges are best prepared by rasping them on lumps of refined sugar, and then scraping off those parts which have imbibed the flavouring; or the lumps of sugar may be crushed and added to the other ingredients; If the rind be cut very thin, it may be boiled in the milk or other fluid, as may also vanilla pods, cinnamon, mace, and similar substances, from which the fluid should afterwards be strained. To Blanch and Pound Almonds. 57. Put them into a saucepan with plenty of cold water.