26 YEGETARIAN COOKERY. of free alkali is present ; but it does not, like the latter, coagulate by hfeat, nor spontaneously like fibrine; though, when milk is heated in an open vessel, an insoluble pellicle of coagulated caseine is formed on it by the action of atmospheric oxygen. This principle is coagulated by acids and alkalies, by alcohol ■when added in sufficient quantity, by treacle, from its containing glucic and melassic acids, by the leaves of flowers, as of the thistle and artichoke; also by sugar, gum, starch and most of the immediate vegetable products. The fresh flowers of the common Lady's Bed Straw, {Galium verum), is a vegetable rennet, and a much more elegant one than that afforded by the calf. If the flowers were dried and well preserved, they would, perhaps, pro- duce the same effect. The Jews use the above instead of rennet, the Mosaic law forbidding them to mingle meat with milk. About a dessert spoonful of diluted acetic acid or vinegar is sufficient for two pints 6f milk. It redissolves if the acid he added in excess. The coagulation of milk by acids is said to be owing to the affinity which the latter have for the water which holds the caseine and butter in suspension, for whatever quantity of acid is added, it is always found in the serum, whilst the sus- pended caseous matter is sweet. The coagulum by adJs falls to the bottom of the serum, that by alkalies swims on the surface. Liquid caseine, as it exists in milk, is coagulated in the stomach by the gastric juice, and the coagula thus formed are subsequently dissolved. In this form caseine is easy of digestion. Coagulated caseine is soluble in weak alkaline liquids, but not in water. It owes its solubility in milk to the small quantity of alkali which is present. ON THE NUTRITIVE PEOPERTIES OF ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. 16. It is the opinion of many cminebt chemists and physiolo- gists that food answers two essential and distinct purposes in the animal economy. 1st. The renewal of the structure of the body, which is continually undergoing decomposition; and, 2nd, the production of animal heat. Some suppose that the former of