VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 16 Dextrine.—Starch may be converted into the suhstance called dextrine by roasting, by long boiling, by treating it with diastase,* which is analogous to gluten, and is found in malted barley; by diluted acids at a boiling temperature ; by an infusion of malt at 150°; and by the saliva. Dextrine exists in the sap of most plants, it is soluble in water, and may be precipitated by alcohol. In analysis it is usually called gum, from which it differs very little, for if gum be exposed to the air and separated from the water by drying, it becomes similar to, if not identical with, dextrine. {d.) Tlie Mticilaginous or Gummy Alimentary Principles. 7. The term gum was formerly given to almost all exudations from plants. It is now limited to certain rather abundant substances, which are solid, uncrystallizable, transparent, or translucent, tasteless, soluble in water, or at least softening in it, and insoluble in alcohol, ether, fat, and volatile oils. They may be divided into gums which dissolve in cold water (arabine, mucilage), and gums which only swell up to a jelly (tragacanth orbassorine, cerasine, pectine). Arabine, or gum arable, is found as an exudation from several species of acacia. Gum Senegal is essentially the same. It is very soluble in cold water, and forms a viscid mucilage, from which alcohol precipitates the gum. When a mixture of gufti, water, and sulphuric acid is kept for some time at a temperature near boiling, it is converted into grape-sugar. Gum is usually considered to possess nutritive properties, but it is apt to disagree with dyspeptics. Mucilage is the name given to a substance resembling gum; it occurs in various parts of plants and abounds in certain seeds, as linseed. It differs from arabine in being less hard when dry, and less transparent; it is slippery, but cannot be drawn into threads like gum. All mucilages contain much mineral matter, and it is probable that their peculiar qualities depend on the presence of • According to Liebio pepsine and diastase are nothing more than a portion of mucous membrane, or of gluten which has passed into a state of decomposition.