118 VEGETARIAN COOlCEkY. the meal two hours or more, the rice and apples till tender; mix the three together, and turn them on a dish or board till cold. Make the dough into cakes with a little soda or baking powder and bake in the oven or over the fii-e. Twnips.—The proportion recommended is two pounds to one pound of wheat meal. Take one pound of mild raw turnips ; pare, divide, and boil them till quite soft; squeeze them in a cloth, so as to remove as much water from them as possible, by which means much of the unpleasant flavour will be removed; mash them well and mix them intimately with the yeast, meal, etc., as directed for apples. To MAicE Yeast. 132. As good brewers' yeast cannot always be procured, an excellent substitute may be formed as follows :—Stir one pound of wheat flour or half a pound of flour and half a pound of boiied potatoes into a gallon of cold water; boil the whole twenty minutes ; then if flour only has been used, add four ounces of coarse sugar, keep the mixture in a warm place two or three days, then pass it through a sieve and pour it into a stone jug for future use. The jug should be well corked and kept in a cool place. Jf a little yeast can be procured, it may be added when the mixture is nearly cool; let it stand all night in a warm place, then stir it up well and pour it into the jug. Or, boil one ounce of hops during twenty or thirty minutes in four or five pints of water and strain it, mix one pound of flour with a little cold water, and pour the hop water while boiling to it, and when new- milk warm, add half a pint of yeast, let the whole stand twenty- four hours, and put it into a stone jug, as above. Fourteen pounds of flour will require fiom half a pint to a pint of this yeast. The dough thus made should be kept ■n'arm, and it requires a longer time to rise than when formed with brewers' yeast. Another. Boil two ounces of the best hops in four quarts of water for half an hour, strain the liquor and let it cool down to the temperature of new milk ; then put in a small handful of salt and half a pound of brown sugar ; beat up oue pound of the best flour with some of the liquor, and then mix all well together. Let