OMELETS, FRITTERS, PANCAKES, ETC. 223 adding more flour, form it into balls, and spread it out witli the remaining yolk of eggs, and fry. Pounded sugar may be sprinkled over them before frying. Rissoles. 472. Potatoes one middle-size; one egg; small onion one; a little scalded parsley; fine bread crumbs two table-spoonfuls; pepper and salt mixed a quarter of a tea-spoonful; sweet marjoram and winter savoury mixed one tea-spoonful; butter a quarter of an ounce. Boil and finely bruise tbe potato; boil tbe egg till bard and tbe onion till soft. All the articles must be finely shred and well mixed, the butter being rubbed in with the rest. Form the mixture into eight small balls, roll them in egg and bread crumbs, and cook them with a little butter, either over the fire or in the oven, till they are of a light brown. Serve them with brown sauce to which a very little ketchup has been added. See 357. Pancakes. 473. The batter for pancakes should be of the consistency of cream, and should be beaten up well at the time it is used; but it is better to make it an hour or two before it is fried. 474. 1. Flour four ounces; eggs one to four; milk or cream a quarter to half a pint. 2. Ground rice four ounces ; eggs one to four ; milk or cream one pint; water a quarter of a pint. 3. Eice four ounces; cream half a pint; eggs four; butter four ounces. A little salt and two tea-spoonfuls of sugar may be added. When the least number of eggs is used, add more flour and milk. To No. 1 may also be added from one to four ounces of butter; it may also be varied by leaving out two ounces of the flour and adding four ounces of creed rice. Cinnamon, nutmeg, lemon rind, ratiflas, and macaroons are sometimes added. No. 1 may also be rendered savoury by adding a little pepper and salt, four ounces of boiled onion, a tea-spoonful of sage and one of parsley, and a little nutmeg. The quantity will be sufficient for two pancakes or one omelet. Small beer or snow may partly or wholly supply the place of eggs, (123). Mix one half of the milk or cream with