112 VEGETAKIAN COOKEHY. Dr. MuspRAT also observes, " From the circumstance that the various mixtures of alkalies and acids evolve the aeriel body too rapidly, and from the want of that elasticity which kneading confers, the gas freely escapes, as well before introducing it into the oven as after, and the consequence is the formation of a heavy loaf." . , ^ ^ A method has lately been introduced of raising dough by forcing carbonic acid ready formed into the mixture of flour, water, etc., and the bread thus made has been highly commended. This process has been paten' ed by Dr. Dauglish. Feemekted Bread. 125. The articles employed for raising fermented bread are leaven and barm or yeast, the former being sour dough, and the latter a product of vinous fermentation. Leaven added to dough excites in it a true alcoholic fermentation, but it also produces a portion of lactic acid and frequently vinegar also; the latter is principally driven off by baking, but the former remains in the bread and imparts to it a sour taste. . ■, a The producing of neio leaven is a tedious process, and it does not always answer so well as that which has been kept from a former baking, being apt to run into putrescence. It is made by workin-wheat-flour with water into dough; this is kept m a temperature of from 70° to 80°. The time of its rising will vary considerably, from a few days to a fortnight. In this process the fermentation is at first of the vinous kind; it passes however, very soon into the acetous, and is generally distinguished by a Bli/ht acidity, which it gives to the bread. Leaven may be kept for a week or two buried in flour. _ German or Dutch yeast, imported in a sobd state, is much esteemed for the purpose when it can be obtained fresh The crust of the bread is said to be softer than when prepared with ordinary yeast, and fermentation is produced much sooner. Bre W yeast is frequently very bitter, and should be puri^ed by frequent washings in large quantities of co d water. Stir it ZTuv in the water when first received, let it s and al night, riTff the water, add fresh water, and let it stand several hours.