57 COOKING PBOCESSES. (3.) Boiling. 60. To boil or seethe is to prepare anything by keeping the fluid in which it is immersed in a state of ebullition. The temperature at which water boils in this latitude is 212° Fahrenheit, and no additional heat can raise it beyond this point, unless sugar, salt, etc. be added to increase its density. Milk boils at 199° ; water with one-fifth of its weight of salt boils at 219°; saturated, at 224° ; syrup at 221° ; linseed oil at 640°; olive oil at 500". A metal spoon left in a vessel retards the process of boiling, because being a good conductor, it carries off the heat from the water. Thick liquids, which do not readily permit the escape of steam, or a rapid motion betwedfn the particles of the fluid, may be readily heated at the pan most exposed to the flre to a much higher degree, whilst those portions not immediately in contact with the heat, are much colder ; from this cause they are very apt to be charred and spoiled. To prevent this effect use the bain marie (59). The effect of boiling upon starch is to break or split the grains, and thereby render it more digestible. It also solves the gummy and saccharine parts, and expels wholly or in part, the volatile oils contained in onions, leeks, garlic, etc., and renders them milder in flavour, Coiling also checks fermentation. At the heat of 212° the essential oils and aromatic principles of vegetables are driven off or decomposed; while by infusion in hot water, in covered vessels, they remain in a great measure uninjured. All vegetables, if fresh gathered, may be boiled without the least change in colour, if put into boiling water with a few ounces of salt, and allowed to boil in plenty of wate7\ leaving the vessel uncovered (4.) When any impurity in the form of scum arises during the pro- cess of boiling, as in making soup, it should be carefuUv removed. The purposes for which soft water is preferable are mentioned at sec. 4. The following articles should be put into boiling water:— Asparagus, peas, beans, kidney beans, and all greens; potatoes, turnips, carrots, etc.; puddings, dumplings, etc.