17 ALIMENTARY PRINCIPLES. phosphate of lime, or other salts of lime, disguising either starch or arabine. "When linseed is soaked in cold water, the mucilage expands and escapes from the seed. It is insoluhle in water, but swells when immersed in it, and contracts again under the action of alcohol. Like gum, it forms an emulsion with oils, but is distinguished from the former by containing a large quantity of nitrogen. "When boiled in dilute sulphuric acid, mucilage is changed into sugar. The mucilage of linseed contains 52-7 per cent, of soluble gum, 29-89 insoluble, and 7 27 per cent, of nitrogen. The vegetable substances in which mucilage prevails are carrots, parsnips, turnips, beet, asparagus, scorzonera, salsafy, Jerusalem artichokes, artichokes, lettuce, spinach, cabbages, cauliflowers, green peas, green kidney-beans, leeks, onions, etc. ; also barley, wheat, and all the grains used for brewing and baking. Mucila- ginous articles are in general easy of digestion, contain little nutriment, and have an emolient action. Bassorine forms the chief part of gum tragacanth, and of gum bassora, and according to some, of salep ; but Schmidt says the latter is really formed of swelled-up grains of starch. Bassorine resembles arabine in appearance, but is less transparent, and instead of dissolving in cold water, only swells up to a very great extent, forming a viscid mass. Cerasine is the name given to that part of the gum of the cherry, plum, or almond trees which is insoluble in cold water. It is probably identical with bassorine, or with salep, (e.) The Pectimceous Alimentary Principle. [Vegetable Jelly.) 8. Fectineox poetic acid, from omxTij-, a coagulum, is a principle which, when dried, resembles gum or isinglass, and forms a jelly with water. Most pulpy fruits contain vegetable jelly, as currants (red, white, and black), apples, pears, quinces, plums, apricots, gooseberries, blackberries, raspberries, strawberries, bilberries, cherries, oranges, etc. It may also be obtained from Jerusalem artichokes, the onion, carrot, turnip, beet, etc. The 2