SOUPP. 237 little pepper and salt, a tea-spoonful of sweet marjoram, three table-spoonfuls of ketchup, and the remaining butter; let the •whole simmer a few minutes. This soup is generally much esteemed. The introductory remarks on thickening, flavouring, and colouring, should be well attended to, in order to succeed satisfac- torily in making the foregoing soups, and in order to vary them as may be thought desirable. "Water should be at a boiling heat when added to soup. (b.) Green Soups. 493. (a.) Boil three pints of fully grown but sound green peas with half a tea-spoonful of soda for thirty minutes or more. "When they are tender drain them and add them to two quarts of boiling stock (489), pale but good; stew them in it for half an hour, then pass the whole through a fine sieve; put the soup into a clean pan and bring it to the boiling point, adding salt if necessary, and a small tea-spoonful of powdered sugar. Clear off the scum and serve. (5.) To the broth and stock (491 gr.) without the browning, add a pint of green peas previously boiled with a little soda and a sprig of mint, and pulped through a sieve. Reserve a few to be put in whole, and if the soup be not of a sufficient consistency thicken it with a little flour, butter, and cream. Spinach greening (408) is sometimes added. (c.) Green peas one quart; lettuces two; onions three; bread eight ounces ; pea-shells without the stalks two quarts ; turnips three; spinach or parsley one handful; salt one table-spoonful; water five quarts. Proceed as at 485, pass the stewed vegetables through a colander or sieve; return the soup to the pan with a quart of boiling water ; season with pepper and salt and boil the soup about ten minutes. {d.} Cucumbers, three or four pared and sliced; the hearts of three or four lettuces shred small; two onions cut thin; a few sprigs of parsley, and if not objectionable, twelve or more leaves of mint roughly chopped. Stew these for nearly an hour over a gentle fire with three or four ounces of butter; add half a tea-