215 CHEESE-CAKES. well beaten, and a grain or two of salt. Boil the rice in the milk fifteen minutes, and when removed from the fire and nearly cold, add the butter just melted, sugar, eggs, and salt. Line some large patty pans or saucers with thin paste, fill them three parts full, strew currants over the top or mix them in, and bake fifteen or twenty minutes in a gentle oven. Some boil a little cinnamon in the milk, others flavour with nutmeg, lemon rind, or almond flavour, etc. 436. Potatoes boiled or roasted and passed through a sieve, eight ounces ; butter four ounces; sugar four ounces; eggs three ; the rind of one lemon and half the juice. Dissolve the butter, or beat it to a cream; beat the eggs, and mix all the ingredients well together. A few currants may be added ; or a piece of stale savoy or pound cake crumbled in. Bake in pans lined with paste as above. 437. Sweet almonds six ounces; bitter almonds half an ounce; Naples biscuits grated six ounces; butter melted four ounce?; yolks of eggs six; whites three; juice and rind of a lemon, sugar to taste. Pound the almonds (57), beat the eggs, and mix welL 438. Naples biscuits grated two ounces; butter melted four ounces; eggs four; lemon juice and rind, and sugar to taste. 439. Apples grated eight ounces; butter melted four ounces; sugar four ounces; yolks of eggs four, and whites two ; juice and rind of a lemon. Bread crumbs two table-spoonfuls, or Naples biscuits grated and beaten up with the other ingredients, make the cheese-cakes lighter (302). 440. Boiling cream one pint poured on a sliced roll. Let this stand two hours; add five or six well beaten eggs; butter melted four ounces; currants eight ounces, and a little mace. 441. Cocoa-nut washerl, pared, and grated, six ounces; sugar four to six ounces ; milk of the nut or water two or three table-spoonfuls; eggs five ; half a lemon rind. Stew the cocoa- nut till tender, along with the sugar and milk, stirring it frequently; when rather cooled add the eggs well beaten and strained, and the lemon rind grated. Bake as above thirteen to fifteen minutes.