256 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. salt, as you dry them; boil them four minutes; drain them and dry them between two cloths. Pour the boiled vinegar, etc., upon tbem when it is cold. (&.) Or take freshly gathered large mushrooms, peel them; place a few of them in a pan with a little mace, pepper, salt, and mustard seeds; place the pan over a clear, brisk fire till the juice has been extracted from the mushrooms ; then hang the pan at some distance above the fire that the watery particles of the juice may evaporate, and tiU the remaining juice has been reabsorbed; then remove them and put them in jars. Repeat the operation with a few mushrooms each time till the required quantity has been obtained. The jars should be only half filled with the mushrooms; boil some vinegar with a little mace and a few pepper corns, and pour it over the mushrooms in the jars till fuU, By this means the flavour of the mushrooms is preserved better than by pickling them in the ordinary way. Lemon Fickle. 544. Six lemons, cut or scored into four parts, not quite through the rind; fill the incisions and cover the lemons with salt for a week; then take them out, clear them from the salt, put them into a jar with good vinegar, a very little saifron, mace, and one clove; cover them completely with the vinegar, put a plate or cover on the jar, and stew the lemons about three hours, or tiU tender, in a slow oven. Then remove them, add some fresh vinegar to the other vinegar, and boil some white pepper corns and cayenne in it. Cut the lemons into eight pieces, pour the vinegar over them, and tie them up, A little of the liquid is good for white sauce, etc. Vinegar. 545. Bruise well some ripe gooseberries, and to every quart of the pulp put three quarts of cold boiled water; let it stand in an open vessel forty hours, then strain it through a coarse cloth, and again through a flannel bag. To each gallon of liquor put a pound of coarse brown sugar, stir the whole well and put it in a barrel, cover the bung-hole with strong paper pricked full of holes; let it stand nine months in the cask, then bottle it, and resin over the corks.