226 VEGETARIAN COOXERY. 6. Flowerless Plants.—Mushrooms, morels, etc. 7. Seasonings, etc.—Salt, sugar, pepper, mustard, cayenne, pimento (allspice), cinnamon, ginger, nutmeg, cloves, mace, lemon-peel and juice, ketchup, etc. 8. Animal Froducis.—Milk, cream, hutter, eggs and cheese,* (45). To Prepare the Ingredients. 480. Every thing intended for soup should be fresh and good, and should he prepared with the greatest nicety, and with the utmost attention to cleanliness. Barley,f rice, sago, tapioca, macaroni, and vermicelli should be well washed and soaked in cold water, and then boiled in the soup. Sago and tapioca should be boiled about half an hour and strained previously to being added to the soup. About one ounce to each pint of water. These form a good stock to be added to each quart of soup. Grain previously boiled or creed should not be added till fifteen or twenty minutes before the soup is ready. Peas, lentils, and haricot beans should be soaked for twelve hours or more in cold water before they are used, and as the former differ much in quality, such only should be employed as will become soft by boiling. Count Rumford, however, says that peas should not be sufi'ered to remain in the water over-night, as he found by repeated trials that they never'boil soft if the water in which they are boiled is not boiling hot when they are put into it. Potatoes, turnips, and Jerusalem artichokes should be washed, pared, and cut into small portions; parsneps, carrots, etc. washed, scraped, and cut; white roots should be put into cold water as they are cut to prevent them being discoloured by the air; onions, eschalots, and garlic should be cut small and used with great moderation. It is customary in Italy to serve grated cheese along with soup, that (jach person who chooses may mix a little with his soup. + "Barley," says Count Rumfori>, "requires a great deal of boiling,but when it is properly managed, it thickens a vast quantity of water, and, as I suppose, prepares it for decomposition ; it also gives the soup into which it enters as an ingredient a degree of richness which nothing else can give. Barley meal may be used instead of pearl barley and requires less boiling."