234 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. {d.) Large green peas one quart; butter two or three ounces; one middle-sized onion; a little mint; salt two tea-spoonfuls; sugar one tea-spoonful; pepper half a tea-spoonful; water half a pint. Put the whole in a pan and set it on a slow fire, stir it occasion- ally until no more moisture remains at the bottom of the pan; add three table-spoonfuls of flour ; stir the mixture rapidly and break the peas against the side of the pan with a wooden spoon; moisten with a quart of milk and a quart of water; simmer twenty minutes, or longer if the peas are old, then serve. Fried bread in small dice is a good accompaniment. The bread should not be boiled, but the soup poured upon it. Vegetable broth may be used instead of the milk and water. The peas may be passed through a hair-sieve by breaking and pressing them with the back of a spoon, by which means a puree soup is produced. Heat it and serve. («.) Cabbage lettuces four; coss lettuce one; sorrel one hand- ful, tarragon and chervil, a little of each; cucumbers two or three small ones. Wash, dry, and cut the lettuces ; pare and slice the cucumbers ; butter four ounces. Stir the whole over a slow fire till no liquid remains; add two table-spoonfuls of flour, mix well, and then add gradually two quarts of broth (488 a.), or water only, and boil; when boiling add a pint of green peas, two tea-spoonfuls of sugar, and a little salt and pepper; when the peas are tender, serve. (/.) Turnips three, cut in quarters; carrots, three, cut small; Jerusalem artichokes four; celery one; onions three; sago one tea-cupful; barley half a tea-cupful; rice half a tea-cupful; peas two tea-cupfuls; arrowroot or potato-starch one tea-cupful; ■water five quarts. Boil the vegetables, peas, and barley to a pulp ; strain, then add the rice, sago, potato flour, a bunch of herbs, pepper, and salt; boil half an hour, take out the herbs, then thicken ■with three tablespoonfuls of flour, and four ounces of butter worked well together. Add two table-spoonfuls of ketchup, two table-spoonfuls of lemon pickle, then boil the whole ten minutes. (jg.) Crecy /Somjj.—Red part of twelve carrots, one half of them