30 VEGETAIUAN COOKERY. cold, to the eight pounds of fat meat, which constitute the usual allowance."—Carpenter, Eice, maize, and millet are produced between the equator, and 40° or 45° of latitude; wheat, rye, and buck-wheat, from 40° to 60° ; and barley and oats are cultivated as far as 70° north latitude. The principal seeds are— 1. Those of the Gramineae or grass tribe, sometimes called the cerealia, -viz., wheat, oats, barley, rye, rice, maize or Indian corn, millet, sorghum, and durra, or guinea corn. 2. The Leguminosse, as peas, beans, lentils, kidney beans, or haricots. 3. The Cupuliferse, as chestnuts. 4. The Polygonacece, as buck-wheat. 5. The oily seeds, as the almond, walnut, filbert, etc. The chief constituents of these are albumen, fibrine, glutine, raucine, starch, sugar, and gum. («.) Graminece or Grass Tribe, 21. The cereal grains, either whole, or ground into meal or flour, are, when sufficiently and plainly cooked, nutritive and easily digested. The undressed meal should be preferred to fine flour for bread and all preparations in which colour is of little consequence, as it is more wholesome for most persons, though not so nutritious. The inner surface of the bran contains several azotized principles, which have the remarkable property of liquefying the starch, and converting it into dextrine and sugar; it thus acts as a ferment, and hence its value in bread-making and the process of digestion. Meal, with the bran in it, is, however, on this very account more liable to deterioration, dependent upon an altered condition of the albumen. The late Professor J. F. Johnston and other chemists state that the bran of wheat contains more gluten than an equal weight of either the grain as a whole, or the whiter part of the flour ; hence, they conclude that bread made with undressed meal is more nutritive than when made with fine flour. This opinion, however, is founded upon the assump- tion that the azotized principles alone are the correct measure of value, whereas it is now well ascertained " that the bread-making