VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 220 boiling butter ; strew sugar and nutmeg, if liked, over them, then cover them with the batter, and fry them till of a proper colour. If baking powder be substituted for the yeast, bake immediately (115 b.) 457. Chop the fruit small, add a few currants, and mis them with the batter of the last receipt; drop into boiling butter a sufficient quantity to form a fritter, and when sufficiently done on one side, turn it that both sides may be equally browned. Drain the butter from the fritters and sift sugar over them. These are frequently served with hot ale and sugar, but they are very good alone. 458. Eggs four yolks and two whites; flour four ounces; one large apple finely chopped, raisins stoned and shred three ounces ; sugar one table-spoonful; a little yeast and half a cup of milk. The batter for fritters should be rather thicker than for pan- cakes. 459. Eggs three or four ; rice three ounces; flour one table- spoonful ; butter one ounce; sugar two ounces; milk one pint; apples four ounces; currants three ounces; half a lemnn rind. Simmer the rice in the milk till nearly tender, and till the mix- ture is thick and dry ; add the sugar and butter, and when only just warm, mix tlie currants, apples chopped fine, flour, ■i.nd eggs. Fry in small fritters from five to seven minutes, then sift white sugar over them. Fritters made of Sice and other Grains. 460. The various grains may be made into fritters thus . Cree the grain in water or milk, and when nearly cold add eggs, well beaten, in the proportion of five eggs to six ounces of grain, weighed before being creed; season with pepper and salt, and fry in C!ikes about four inches in diameter and three quarters of an inch thick. Before being fried they may, if preferred, be dipped in beaten egg. Serve with brown sauce, or crisped parsley and melted butter. Instead of pepper and salt, currants may be added, or sugar may be sifted over them when removed from the pan. Cinnamon, lemon rind, etc., may be boiled with the rice. Neither melted