60 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. oven, as apples, potatoes, onions, or in any other close vessel subjected to a dry heat, as coffee. (8.) TOASTIl^G OE TOEEEFTmG. 65. To toast is also to expose to a dry heat before the fire, as slices of bread, cheese, etc.; but the term " toasting " applies more especially to the effect of a dry heat on the surface of a substance, "roasting" to the general effect of a dry heat on articles having some bulk and thickness. By toasting slices of bread, the modified starch becomes more soluble and a fresh portion of gum is formed. Bread, whether intended for dry toast, buttered toast, or for toast-water, should be cut about a quarter of an inch thick, and slowly but well heated through, frequently turned and very slightly browned on each side, but in no part of it charred. If toasted too quickly, the outside will be carbonized or burnt, after which, the heat cannot penetrate it; the moisture of the bread which renders it indigestible to weak stomachs, will be retained, and cannot afterwards be evaporated; consequently, if butter be applied, it will be confined to the surface and become oily; if immersed in water, the starch will be dissolved and the water will be less agreeable to the palate, the pleasant and aromatic flavour of toast-water being developed by the action of heat on the starch contained in the bread. When unfermented brown bread is thus treated, it is a good substitute for biscuits. To prepare toast-water, pour boiling water on the toast, then cover it up and let it stand to cool. If bread has become too old and dry, dip it in warm water, toast it as above, and when buttered it will be preferred to other toast. Muffins should be opened half an inch deep round the edges with a knife, toasted gradually, and when enough, they should be pulled open and buttered. To torrefy or parch is also to heat before the fire or on hot plates, etc. Sometimes farina and grains are torrefied. "Wheat flour is slightly torrefied, to make bouillie. It alters the immedi-