VEGETABIAN COOKERY. 82 tender, and when about sixteen or eighteen inches high, peel them and cut them into lengths of from one to three inches ; put them in spring water, changing it daily for six days, or until the stalks are very clear. Eemove all remaining strings or fibres, and hoil the stalks for a few minutes in spring water, hut not till they j are soft. I For every pound of fruit take a pint of water, a pound of ' sugar, and an ounce of good white ginger previously soaked and scraped ; boil and skim the syrup till clear. (It is better to add only one-third of the sugar at first, and the remainder by degrees at each boiling.) While the syrup is boiling, add the rind of one lemon pared very thin and cut in shreds. When the syrup is clear, remove it from the fire, and when cold, pour it over the cucumbers, lettuce-stalks, etc., having first dried them with a cloth. Let the whole stand a day or two, then draw off the syrup, bring ; it to the boiling point, having added another third of the sugar, j skim it well, and when cold, pour it over the fruit agjjin. There , should be sufficient syrup to cover the fruit. Eepeat the operation j on alternate days for a fortnight or more, occasionally adding a j little more sugar, and if not sufficiently strong of gins-er, add a little essence of ginger before pouring the syrup on the fruit for the last time. The juice of a lemon may be added to the syrup previously to completing the last boiling. (2.) Jams and Marmalades. j 91. These differ little from Preserves properly so called. ' Jams are generally made of the more juicy berries reduced to a . pulp; Marmalades of the more solid fruits, or the rinds of oranges, etc. The fruit should be free from dirt, skins, stalks, and i stones. Eipe and juicy fruits should be rather bruised, put into the preserving pan and boiled rapidly till well reduced, before the sugar is added. When the sugar has been added, boil the whole quickly, but do not allow it to become too thick, or the sugar will remain undissolved, and the impurities will not rise to the top. Eich juice should be carefully watched as it falls from the skimmer, lest it become too thick. When fruit contains little juice, as unripe currants, bruise a portion of it, then add a little sugar,