152 EEPOET OF SUKGICAL OASES IN THE ARMY. with tlie head about three inches long, was buried one inch below the surface of the skin, and had penetra ted the left lung. On account of the barbs, it became necessary to make a large perpendicular incision in order to remove the arrow-head, Avhich required for its extraction considerable pulling, the sharp edges having been wedged in between the ribs with such force as to bend them over on each side. After its removal, there was a considerable flow of blood for a few minutes, probably from an intercostal artery. The bleeding, however, was entirely arrested by cold-water applications. The wound having been cleansed and its edges brought together by a strip of adhesive plaster, cold-water dressings were ordered and continued for three days. A healthy suppuration then set in, and the wound closed by granulation in thirteen days. It was evident in this case that the arrow had penetrated the left lung through both pleurfe, which diagnosis was fully corrobo- rated by the objective as well as subjective symptoms. The patient complained of severe pleuritic pains (or stitches) through the whole of the left lung at every inspi- ration. The respiration was greatly accelerated, dyspncea was often very alarming and palpitations of the heart very severe, obliging the patient to rest in an upright position. Occasional bloody sputa? were observed, and his pulse varied, during the i-io. 28. Barbed iutlainmatory process, from 95 to 140. Auscultation and percussion of the thorax iicl^rrroTa revealed an extensive effusion of fluid on the left side, with subsequent hepatization drawing by of the Upper lobc of the left lung to the extent of the palm of the hand. The Dr. Mulier. treatment was strictly antiphlogistic: Eepeated bleeding, (five times in two weeks,) capping intervening, (from six to ten cups each time,) repeated four times in ten days, affording the patient great relief at each repetition; and application of blisters. Internally tartar emetic in progressive doses, nitre and digitalis, were successively administered, under which treatment, aided by low diet, chiefly milk, the effusion gradually disapiieared, and all alarming symptoms subsided. On the twelfth day of treatment, his pulse did not exceed eighty, the effusion in the left pleura had entirely disappeared, with the exceiition of a small accumulation in the lower left lobe. Light vegetable tonics, with iodide of potassium, were now administered, and a full and select diet adopted. The patient left for home on September 30, 18G2, forty-two days after receiving the injury, having so far recovered that only an occasional slight dyspnoea re- mained. The percussion at this time gave a clear tympanitic sound in the vicinity of the wound, followed by a distinct metallic sound to be heard on auscultation of the parts, entirely similar to pnenmo-thorax, which, in this case, was believed to exist to a circumscribed extent, adhesions having formed along the posterior surface of the left lung. He was dismissed with advice to use cod-liver oil. Dr. Mulier reports lately that he had occasion to meet this patient four years after- ward, and that the remaining untoward symptoms, above described, were considerably ameliorated. CCCOLXIX.—Abstract from Ue^ports of an Arroio-Wound of the Thorax. By JosephKuglee, Acting Assistant Surgeon. William Livingston, a private of Troop G, 3d Cavalry, was wounded Indians while herding horses at Fort Stevens, Colorado Territory, on October C, 18(36, an arrow having entered the right side of thorax between the first and second ribs. It was forcibly extracted by the patient, who stated that a great gush of blood followed. After being conveyed in an ambulance over a rough mountain road, he was adjnitted to hospital at Fort Garland, Colorado Territory, on the 12th, in a very Aveak condition, and suffering frightfully from dyspncea. An examination showed effusion of blood into the right pleural cavity, and the lung impervious, owing to the entrance of blood into the bronchii. Hot fomentations were applied to the wound, and stimulants, afterward followed by stimulating expectorants, were administered, under which treatment the patient was gradually improving on the last of October. On the monthly report for November, the patient is borne as convalescent. He was able to walk about, but there was still a collection of serum or pus in right pleural cavitj', and the respiration of that side was merely bronchial. The treatment still consisted of stimulating expectorants, with stimulants and generous diet. In December, he is still reported convalescent. The effusion in the right pleural cavity was diminishing, and air entere*!- more freely into the lung. He was daily gaining strength and spirits, and little doubt Avas entertained of his making a good recovery. He was returned to duty in February, 18G7.