SIMPLE AND COMPOUND FEAOTURES. 135 Fractures of the Carpal FJiala,nges.—A. single case is specially reported. CCOOXXVIIl.—Minute of a Case of Compound Fracture of a Phalanx. By E. F. Baker, M. D., Acting Assistaut Surgeon. Private Eli Hubbard, Co. K, loth Infantry, aged 19 years, on fatigue duty at Cleburne, Alabama, May 27, 18G8, had his hand crushed by a weight, causing coinpouud comminuted fracture of second phalanx of the left middle finger. At the post hospital, the fractured ends of the bone were placed in opposition, the wound was closed with sutures, and kept in position by compresses and roller bandages. The soldier was returned to duty on June 30, 1868. Feacturbs of the Lower Extremities.—In regard to the numerous cases of this category, special reports were made in fourteen instances, in addition to the reports of cases in which operations were practiced. Details were given of four examples of fracture of the femur, one of which was believed to be intra-capsular, of one fracture of the patella, and of nine fractures of one or both bones of the leg. Fractuo-es of the Femur.—Special reports were made of four cases treated by angular splints. CCCCXXIX.—Mention of a Fracture of the Femur. By E. F. Bakee, M. D., Acting Assistaut Surgeon. At Savannah, Georgia, in October, 18G8, Private John Carroll, Co. F, 12th Infantry, while laboring under an attack of delirium tremens, leaped from the second story balconj^ of the post hospital to the ground, causing a slightly oblique fracture of the right femur, a short distance below the great trochanter. The limb was placed in splints, and extension and counter-extension made by means of adhesive strips applied to the leg, and a perineal band. The case progressed favorably, and in January, 1809, Carroll was transferred to Fort Pulaski. CCCCXXX.—Remarlis on a Case of Fracture of the Femur. By A. G. Skinner, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Thomas McCann, Co. A, 42d Infantry, aged 40 years, was brought to the hospital at Fort Niagara, New York, September 23, 1868, having fallen the earlier part of the preceding night, while intoxicated, and, being unaole to assist himself, had lain where he fell until morning. On examination, the left thigh was found fractured near the small trochanter, but the swelling was so immense that the exact condition of the bone could not then be determined. The limb was nearly two inches shorter than its fellow, with no eversion of the toes. The muscles of the upper portion of tlie thigh were in a state of spasmodic contraction. Two assistants were directed to make extension and counter-extension ; as not the slightest eft'ect was produced by this force, two others were directed to aid; for ten minutes this force was continued without effect; two more men were then added to the force, when, after a few minutes steady efibrt, the bone came to its place with an audible crepitus, resembling the sound heard in reducing luxations. Impaction of fragments had doubtless occurred at the seat of fracture. The limb was placed in an Amesbury splint (the only one within reach), the thigh piece being lengthened to come firmly to the buttock ; adaptation splints were applied, and a roller bandage to embrace the whole limb. During the day, the patient recovered from his inebriation, with loss of api)etite and sick stomach ; but complained ot of very little pain. The limb continued swollen for about a week, when the swelling abated, and almost entirely disappeared at the end of the second week. The patient did not complain of pain throughout the treatment, except from the occasional chafing of bandages, and being confined in one position. The dressings were removed at the end of seven weeks, at which time the bone