EEPOET OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. Excisions of the Head of the Humerus.—Two successful operations of tliis nature were made the subject of special reports, ])CXXXII.—Account of an Excision of the ffead of the Humerus. By Donald Jackson, M. D., Acting Assistant Snrgeou. Private Joseph Qiiitnby, Troop L, 9tli Cavalry, aged 27 years, was, in April, 1SG9, while fighting the Indians, (Pension Report,) accidentally wounded by a carbine ball, which entered the rigiit shoulder below the acromion, passed obliquely downward and inward, sliattered the upper third of the humerus, and lodged beneath the teres major. He was admitted to post hospital at Fort Clark, Texas, on June 2G, 1809, being very much exhausted from the effects of inflammation, which had existed in the Avliole limb. On admission the active stage of inflammation had subsided ; the wound suppurated freely, and a large abscess, caused by lodgement of bullet, had formed below the axillti. On June 27th, chloroform was administered, and a vertical incision made, commencing at the wound below the acromion, through the deltoid to its insertion. The upper portion of the humerus, four and a half inches in length, was then removed. The patient reacted promptly, but the shock of operation was great, and for four hours after operation life was with difficulty sustained by constant use of stimulants. He recovered, and on November 13, 18G9, was sent to his company at Fort Duncan, Texas, to be discharged. Eight months after injury Fig. 4.>.-Fppor apparatus, which was very useful to command the arm, was furnished by poitioiiofiigbt iiu- Doctor E. D. Hudson. At that time the arm was not shortened, but little reduced gunshot wound. ^^^'^j '^'ciT healthy, and the wound well cicatrized; the functions of the arm and *i)cc. 5C38, Sect.I, fore-arm were normal, except lack of leverage. The man has made application A. M. M. pension, but the case is pendiug. DCXXXIII.—Account of an Excision of a Portion of the Humerus. By S. S. Jessop, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Ordnance Sergeant James T. Skillin, aged 50 years, while engaged in the line of his duty at Castle Pinckney, Charleston Harbor, South Carolina, July 31, 1SG9, was shot by a drunken soldier, at a distance of about five feet. The missile, a conoidal umsket ball, fractured the first and second phalanges of the left fore finger, then entered about an inch below the right clavicle, passed backward and outward through the humerus, close to the capsule, emerging at the posterior and outer aspect of the arm. He Avas admitted into the post hospital of that place on the next day. The orifices of entrance and exit were very large—the first about three inches in diameter, the latter somewhat smaller, and irregular in shape. In the track of the ball anterior to the humerus, were fragments of clothing; posterior to it, comminuted fragments of bone. The patient, a man of unusually fine physique and very temperate habits, had rallied well from a copious venous hjemorrhage. Pulse 75, and tolerably full. Eighteen hours after the reception of the injury, I administered chloroform, and excised the head and about three and a half inches of the shaft of the humerus, and amputated the left fore-finger at the metacarpo phalan- geal articulation. Recovery was rapid. On September 30, 18G9, there was a very slight discharge from the opening of the entrance, and from the middle of the cut made by the operation. On the latter date, he had good Fig. 46.—Head and portion of shaft of humerus excised usc of the forc-arm and hand, but nonc of the arm. for ffurshot wrad. Spec. 5588, Sect. I, A. M. M. Passivc motiou was daily employed. The wounds, during most of the treatment, had been washed and dressed with a solution of crude carbolic acid, twenty drops to the pint. He was returned to duty November 10, 1GG9. The specimens, with the history, were contributed to the Army Medical Museum by the operator, and are numbered 5588 and 5589, Surgical Section.