51 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. shoot the Iiidiaa in whose embrace Darragh was locked and from Avhom he was struggling to free himself. The ludian was killed, bnt it was impossible to determine whether he or his antagonist was first struck, as they were rolling over each other. The ball entered Darragh's body iu the right hypochondriac region, just in front of the space between the eleventh and twelfth ribs, passed obliquely downward, backward, and inward, through, it is believed, the anterior edge of the right lobe of the liver, the transverse colon, among the folds of the small intestines, and emerged one inch to the right of the eleventh dorsal vertebra, fracturing the transverse process. There was some paralysis of motion of the right lower extremity and urinary bladder, due, doubtless, to the shock sustained by the spinal cord from the ball striking and fracturing the transverse i^rocess of the eleventh dorsal vertebra. But little external, and a small amount of internal, hsemorrhage was evident, and although he grew faint the tendency to collapse was small, as he rallied from the shock iu two or three hours, being quite strong and cheerful, notwithstanding he was told the wound would in all probability prove fatal in a few hours. Opium was given to him immediately, and a temporary hand-litter was constructed on which he was carried over a rough country more than half-way to Camp McDowell, Arizona Territory, until the party was met by an ambulance. He arrived at that post on December 11th, twenty-six hours after the occurrence of the injury, and was immediately taken to the post hospital, where he was made as comfortable as possible. His wounds were dressed, and a pint of ammoniacal urine was drawn from his bladder by the catheter, and a small injection of warm water was given to unload the rectum, the patient having been somewhat constipated. Opium was given to relieve the constantly increasing pain, and barley- water ordered as a drink. A more careful examination discovered that general peritonitis had set in, and that though apparently strong he was almost pulseless. Death occurred at 8 o'clock of the evening of December 11,1869. OLXI.—Report of a Gunshot Woimd of the Liver.—By C. W. Knight, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Brevet Major William Eussell, jr.. Second Lieutenant 4th United States Cavalry, was shot by Indians at Mount Adam, Lampasas, Texas, at 2 P. M., on the 14th of May, 1870. He was first seen by the writer at 9.30 P. M., on the day of the shooting, at Grimes's Eanche, about five miles from the scene of action, and some fifteen miles from the post of Lampasas. The ball, from a Eemington's revolver, entered just beneath the tenth rib of the right side, and about four inches from the vertebral column. The ball lodged immediately beneath the integument of the epigastrium, from which position a citizen extracted the ball by incision some two hours before the writer arrived upon the spot. There had been extensive haemorrhage, with much prostra- tion. Major Eussell died at midnight, May 15th, and in the line of duty. An autopsy was imprac- ticable; but it is quite certain that the liver was penetrated by the missile. The immediate causes of death seemed to have been the shock of the injury and the haemorrhage. CLXIL—Memorandum of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Liver. By F. L. Town, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Joseph Phelan, Co. K, 13th United States Infantry, aged 22 years, received a gunshot wound of the liver. He was admitted to the United States post hospital at Fort Shaw, Montana Territory, on April 3,1870. The treatment consisted of simple dressings. He died on April 4,1870. CLXIII.—A Case of Gunshot Wound of the Liver. By D. L. Magruder, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private James Stainbrook, 19th Kansas Volunteers, being confined in the guard-house at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, under a charge of desertion, attempted his escape about 1 o'clock in the afternoon of September 4, 18G9. Eefusing to halt, he was fired on by the sentinels, and when in the act of crossing a high fence, two hundred yards distant, one of the shots took effect. A ball entered, fracturing the crest of the right ilium, and passed upward and inward, traversing the liver and intestines, making its exit three inches above and a little to the left of the umbilicus. Profuse internal hsemorrhage set in, and the patient died at 6 o'clock the same evening, Septem- ber 4, 1869.