12 EEPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY, mild mercurialism establisliecl by calomel aud opium ; the gums were kept just barely touched for about a week, after which the actiou of the bowels was maiutaiued by purgatives and euemata. A strictly autiphlogistic regimen was enjoined throughout; the entire scalp was shaved, and kept constantly irrigated. XXII. —Memorandum of a Fatal Gunshot Wound of the Brain. By Caklos Carvallo, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Walter R. Stone, Co. F, 4th United States Cavalry, aged 23 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Jefferson, Texas, March 4, 1869, with a gunshot wound caused by the acci- dental discharge of his carbine. The missile entered the left eye, traversed the brain, aud escaped through the occipital bone. He died March 4, 1869. XXIII. —Kote of a Fatal Gunshot Wound of the Brain. By R. H. White, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private William J. Hood, Co. K, 2d United States Infantry, while attempting to escape from a guard, was shot at Mobile, Alabama, March 16, 1870, by order of the officer of the day. He died in a few moments. XXIV. —Note of a Fatal Gtinshot Wound of the Brain, with Wotmds of the Lung and Chest. By H. G. Bates, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Ransom Shaw, Co. E, 3d United States Artillery, while attempting to escape from prison at Fort Macon, North Carolina, July 2,1867, received three gunshot wounds. A conoidal ball entered just above the temporal ridge, on the left side near the coronal suture, and lodged in the brain ; another entered the left lateral thoracic region, between the sixth and seventh ribs, passed through and emerged in front between the costal cartilages of the fifth and sixth ribs, near the sternum; there was also a slight flesh wound of the chest in front between the sixth and seventh ribs on the side of and near the sternum. Death resulted instantly. XXV. —Memorandum of a Romicide. By R. M. Kirk, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private James McDonongh, Co. B, 6th United States Cavalry, was shot by a corporal of his company on the night of March 14,1868, at Austin, Texas, the ball, a Remington carbine pat- tern, passing antero-posteriorly through the brain, killing the soldier iustantly. It is impracticable to learn with precision the nature of the next two cases. Compari- son of the different reports would indicate that they were examples of trivial gunshot scalp-wounds. XXVI.—Tioo Cases of Gunshot Injury of the Head. By John J. Culver, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Ole Larssen, Co. A, 35th United States Infantry, aged 35 years, received, on Septem- ber 6, 1869, a wound of the head, by a pistol ball, in a disturbance with Mexicans, while tempo- rarily at the post, attending a general court-martial. He was admitted into Fort Quitman, Texas, on September 7, 1869. Simple dressings were applied to the wound. He was returned to duty on November 20, 1869. Private William Weaver, Co. H, 9th United States Cavalry, aged 35 years, was wounded by pistol balls in the right hip and head, on January 16, 1870. On the same day he was admitted into Fort Quitman, Texas, from his company. Simi)le dressings were applied to his wounds, and he speedily recovered.