AEEOW-WOUNDS. 149 CCCV'JjXII.—Account of an Arrow- Wonnd of the Scali) and of the Le(j. By Henry McElderky, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private William Eosback, Troop F, fith Cavalry, aged 20 years, was wounded during the niglit of August 29, 1867, in an attack by Indians on Fort Belknap, Texas, by two arrows ; one striking tlie scalp, the other the outer aspect of the left leg three inches below the knee-joint. Missile passed backward and inward, the spike lodging. He Avas admitted from company quarters on September 1, to hospital at Camp Wilson. Cold-water dressings were applied. The arrow- head was excised posteriorly in the popliteal space. Isinglass plaster and fused nitrate of silver locally. He vras returned to duty on November 24, 1867. CCCCLXIII.—Efj9or^ of an Arrow-Wound, of the Neclc. By B. Semig, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Thomas Button, Co. K, 32d Infantry, aged 23 years, was wounded in an attack by Apache Indians upon a wagon train in the lower Senorita Valley, Arizona Territory, on May S, 1869, by an arrow which caused a flesh wound of the posterior portion of the neck. He was admitted on the next day to the post hospital at Cami) Crittenden, Arizona Territory. He recovered, and was returned to duty May 17, 1869. CCCGIjXIY.—Accoimts of Two Fatal Arrow-Wounda of the Sl-uU. By W. M. Notson, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Case 1.—J. C , with two others, were attacked by Indians on September 1, 1870, near the Pecos Eiver, Texas. One man was killed, another escaped, and C received an arrow-Avound of the head, and three gunshot flesh-wounds—one in the arm, another in the breast, and a third in the leg. Seven days afterward he was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Concho, Texas, having traveled part of the distance on foot and the balance by wagon and stage. When admitted his mental condition was good, and as clear and bright as usual. He complained only of weariness from his ride and some slight soreness of the gunshot wounds, and spoke very lightly of the scratch on the side of his head. Water dressings were i ai)plied to the wounds and rest enjoined. The gunshot wounds healed kindly. On the fourth day after admission, the indications being something jnore than irritative fever, special diet was ordered, and aromatic spirits of ammonia was given in small doses. This prescription was afterward replaced by an ordinary fever mixture. On the night of Cianiumwith aiiariw hoadimparteaiuthe ^ ,, , , , , . ? , ligUt sq uaaious bone. Sjiec. 5907, Sect. I, A. M. M. the Sixth day the cerebral symptoms becoming more violent, hydrate of chloral was ordered. On the eighth day a saline cathartic was given, and an etfbrt made by Acting Assistant Surgeon C. W. Knight to reopen the wound of tlie temple. This attempt proved unsuccessful on account of the resistance of the temporal fascia. Doubt as to the cause of the existing symptoms prevented him from making a free incision. The treatment from this u^) to the fatal termination of the case, September 19, 1870, was with counter-irritants, nutriment, and stimulants. The autopsj'^ revealed the site of the injury of the bone half an inch from the external incision, which, when first seen upon admission, was a clean cut nearly healed. Pus was found in the wound, ventricles, andmeniiiges. The pathological specimen, showing an iron arrow-head lodged in the petrous portion of the right temporal bone, was contributed to the Army Medical Museum, and is figured in the wood cut Fig. 25. The following therniograpli (Fig. 26) exhibits the variations of the temperature, as observed from the seventh to the eighteenth day of disease, inclusive.