EEPOKT OF SURGICAL CASES IK THE ARMY. 96 found eiglit inches of the colon, all of the stomacb, and nearly the whole of the small intestines, together with the mesentery and omentum protrndiug through a wound in the left epigastrium. About two and a half feet of the small intestine having a whitish color, a])peared filled with food, and had much the characteristic feeling of a sausage. The rest of the small intestines being col- lapsed, had a dark brown color. The stomach and colon, distended with gas, were leaden colored. The viscera had been out and exposed to the atmosphere for over an hour. Having nothing but cold Mississippi water to wash them with, I preferred returning them without any effort at removing blood and dirt, fiu'ther than wiping with a cambric handkerchief and trusting to the stripping, if I may so term it, that they would naturally be siibjected to while being returned through the wound by which they were tightly packed and almost strangulated. In about ten minutes, I had returned them all, carefully examining inch by inch for a wound or tear in them, but finding none. The first portion returned was the ilium, next the jejunum. The stomach required the gas to be gently pressed out before it was returned, as was the case with the colon, which I presume was the first to escape from, as well as the last to be put back, into the abdomen. The food in the jeju- num had also to be partially manipulated out of it before it could be returned. The wound exter- nally was three inches long, and nearly x)erpendicular. The internal opening was nearly at right angles with it, and allowed easily the introduction of three fingers. The conjoined cartilage at the end of the seventh rib was also divided. The omentum, although frequently returned, could not be made to remain in the cavity of the abdomen, and must still form a plug in the internal wound. The instrument inflicting the wound was said to be a cotton-hook. Three silver sutures through the skin, with long adhesive straps, kept the edges of the wound together. A compress over the wound, and a bandage eight yards long and six inches wide, was tightly applied around the epigas- tric region. Two persons were ordered to keep watch over the patient, who was not removed from the table upon which his wound was dressed that night. He went to sleep as soon as his wound was dressed, and slept soundly all night, and in the morning was admitted as before stated. During his stay in the hospital he never had a single bad symptom. As a i^roper precautionary treatment, however, he was allowed no food for four days. Some toast-water, and a moderate quantity of mor- phine was given him to keep his bowels at rest and allay pain. His food was gradually and cau- tiously increased after that date, until it appeared that extra diet agreed with him. He had no opera- 1 tion of the bowels until the 22d instant, when he passed a healthy stool without medicine. He was discharged on May 24th, the wound being entirely healed, and no other apparent difi'erence exist- ing from that of a state of health, except that the cartilage of the rib had not reunited. He was directed to wear his bandage and compress for a month. CCCXIX.—Account of an Incised Wotmd in the Hypogastrium. By Samuel W. Blackwood, Surgeon, 81st U. S. Colored Troops. Sergeant Edward Thompson, Co. A, 81st Colored Troops, received an incised wound in the hypogastric region, at New Orleaus, on October 25, 1865. The wound was two and a half inches long, and iierforated the small intestines at five i)oints from which its contents escaped. These Avere closed by the interrupted suture. Upon attempting to return the bowels the abdominal cavity was found to be filled with arterial blood, which issued from a wound in the mesentery, the artery of which was tied. Brandy and opium were exhibited. The wounded man survived twelve hours. CCCXX.—Report of an Incised Wound of the Arm. By W. H. Eippard, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. The incised wound mentioned in this report was a wound of the brachial artery, made by a disreputable practitioner of medicine while in a state of intoxicjation, in attempting to abstract blood from the median basilic vein. The coats of the artery were not quite cut through, as the artery did not commence to bleed for two hours after, when the patient, while romping in the quarters, noticed the blood oozing through the bandage. Ilis comrades brought him to the dispen- sary, where the steward proceeded to take off the bandage. Blood immediately gushed out in jets