118 REPOET OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. OCCLXXXII.—Mention of a Case of Fracture of the SJcnll. By A. A. Yeomans, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Thomas Cbarleton, Co. F, IGth Infantry, died at tlie post hospital at Vicksburg, Mississippi, on April 6, 1870, from compression of the brain, with fracture of the ba.se of the skull, the ettects of a blow with the stock of a musket. No further particulars are recorded. CCCLXXXIII.—Remarlcs on a ease of Fracture of the Sludl. By B. F. Pope, Assistant Surgeoiij U. S. A. George Clapp, artificer of Battery H, .3d Artillery, aged 37 years, went from Fort Adams to Newport, Rhode Island, on November 4, 1867, in company with a comrade, and while there both drank very freely. He was drunk when he started to return to the fort, and while on the way fell in the road ; his companion, who was equally intoxicated, attempted to carry him, but failed, and leaving him, dead drunk as he supposed, returned to the fort, but gave no notice of the affair until the next morning. The case w^as not reported to the surgeon in charge until about 9 A. M. When found Clapp was lying in a stable near the fort; he was comatose, breathing stertorous, pupils dilated, and breath smelling strongly of liquor; countenance natural in color. The head was minutely examined, but no evidence of contusion could be discovered save a slight ecchymosis of the left eye. He was immediately taken to the post hospital at Fort Adams, where cold appli- cations were made to the head and sinapisms to the feet. The pulse was full and slow, and he appeared better than when first seen in the morning. Another minute examination was made, but no injury of the head could be found; the case was diagnosed intense inebriation. The patient died suddenly at 1.30 P. M. without convulsion. An autopsy was made twenty hours after death. The frame was large and muscular; the abdomen and thorax well developed. On removing the integuments with the occipito-frontal and temporal muscles a simple fissured fracture of the left tem- poral bone was discovered, commencing about one inch above the left ear in the squamous portion of the temporal bone, traversing forward and downward to the base of the cranium, involving the left greater wing of the sphenoid bone. The skull-cap was removed and exposed a large clot of blood, four ounces, occupying the left tem^ioral fossa, extravasated between the cranium and the dura mater. The left hemisphere of the brain was compressed to two-thirds of its original bulk. Detached from the inner table of the temporal bone was found a small spicula of bone, which had wounded some of the small arteries that ramify the dura mater, producing cerebral hfemor- rhage and subsequent death. The lungs, liver, and heart were found healthy. The lungs were singularly free from the carbonaceous deposit noticeable in adults, presenting almost the delicate pink color of infancy. The obscurity of the leading symptoms prior to death, complicated as they were by excessive iuebiiation, and the absence of any marks to lead one to suspect injury of the brain, caused a natural error in diagnosis. In regard to trephining, it is questionable whether (even could the locality of the injury have been discovered) the operation would have relieved the brain from so large a mass of clotted blood, since, even on post-mortem examination, the fibrinous coagulation came away with difficulty. [The preparation of the fractured teniporal was not for- warded to the Museum.—En.] CCCLXXXIV.—Bemarlis on a Case of Fracture of the Skull tvith Recovery. By John H. Bartholf, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Edward Cross, Battery F, 5th Artillery, aged 22 years, was kicked by a horse at Camp Williams, Virginia, on October 22, 18G7. The wound was just above the nasal emi- nence, and was two inches long; there was a fracture of the outer table of the frontal bone with depression, and the margin of the undepressed bone presented a serrated edge. It was not certainly known whether there was also depression of the inner table; but Acting Assistant Surgeon Hysore, who examined the wound at the time of the accident, was of the opinion from the de])th of the depression on the surface that the inner table was also driven in. The symptoms were dilated pupils with insensibility for one hour, and so far indicated depression ; but there was no