LACEEATED AND CONTUSED WOUNDS. 109 had not abated. On attempting to introduce the catheter the urethra contracted spasmodically. Unfortunately, in continuing the effort the wire was thrust through the end of the catheter, which punctured the walls of the iirethra and entered an abscess. Whether this puncture with the wire only anticipated what nature would have done, has been a question in my mind. While I believe tliat any oijeuing into the urethra was of all things to be feared and guarded against, as likely to produce extravasation of urine and urinary fistulse, yet I believe that the abscess woidd have pointed there eventually. On March Gth, incisions were made into the perinajum to give vent to the contents of the abscess; the discharge was profuse and offensive; the abdomen was tense, swollen, and very tender; the pulse frequent and feeble ; tongue parched with extreme thirst; the appetite impaired, and the bowels constipated. A catheter was retained for several days, through which the bladder was frequently evacuated. Large clots of blood passed, with considerable mucus. Upon the bladder being emptied there would be spasmodic contraction, accompanied by intense pain, which was attributed to the contact between the walls of the bladder and the point of the catheter. The patient was taiight to introduce the catheter, which he did with comparative ease. Occasionally the eye of the catheter would become occluded with blood and mucus, so that the contraction of the bladder and the abdominal walls would force the urine by the catheter and discharge it through the fistulous openings in the perina^um. Warm fomentations were applied to the abdomen and stimulants given. Under the treatment adopted there was gTadual abatement of the symp- toms, and a decided im^jrovement in general health. Ou March 15th, the hjematuria had almost disappeared, but the discharge of mucus had become more manifest. The urine was still drawn through the catheter that nature might heal the abnormal outlets. On the 20th, the patient discharged uriue with little pain in ordinary amount and with scarcely a trace of mucus. He continued to improve, and on March 31st, two of the fistulous openings had healed, and the only remaining one looked healthy and was contracted very much. The patient had recovered strength, though he still retained the recumbent posture. CCCLXIII.—Note of a Case of Contusion of the Thigh. By Carlos Carvallo, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Arthur Calquhoun, Troop K, 5th Cavalry, aged 22 years, was kicked by a horse, Sep- tember 26, 1867, causing a contusion of the right thigh, just above the knee. On admission to the post hospital at Sedgwick Barracks, Washington, the injured limb was swollen and tender. Plaster of Paris bandage was applied. He recovered, and was returned to duty October 8, 1867. CCCLXIV.—Memorandum of a Contusion of the Knee-Joint. By W. S. Adams, M. D., Acting- Assistant Surgeon. Corporal William H. Hoffman, Troop A, 5th Cavalry, aged 25 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Morganton, North Carolina, October 10, 1867, with a contusion of the right knee-joint, caused by the kick of a horse received about October 1st. The joint was found swollen and roughened, with slight redness and much heat. The patella was elevated at least half an inch above the condyles. He complained of but little pain, nor had he any well-marked chill. The limb was placed in a straight splint and a blister applied to the joint, to be followed by tincture of iodine. Ou October 15th the patient was much imiH'oved; elfusion apparently absorbed. The splint was removed, but rest enjoined; and on October 25th he was returned to duty, motion nearly perfect. CCCLXV.—Note relative to a Contusion of Foot. By C. E. Greenleap, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Albert J. Furay, Co. I, 2d Infantry, aged 32 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Taylor Barracks, Kentucky, July 17, 1868, with a contused wound of the left foot, caused by tlie falling upon it of an iron safe which he was assisting to move. Warm fomentations were applied, and on July 28th, he returned to duty entirely recovered.