160 REPOET OF SURGICAL CASES JN THE ARMY. brachial artery, and four meu were wouuded so severely tliattbey were dismouuted, and, tlie com- mand being- forced to retreat, tbey were probably at once lulled by tbe Indians, as their bodies were afterward found covered with' wounds. These were— Private John Devine, Co. I, 3d Cavalry, brachial artery severed. Private James Cook, Co. I, 3d Cavalry, many wounds. Private William Kerr, Co. I, 3d Cavalry, many wounds. Private Edward White, Co. I, 3d Cavalry, many wounds. Private John Lee, Co. G, 3d Cavalry, many wounds. In this engagement four other soldiers received arrow-wounds of more or less severity, aud were taken to Fort Sumner, and treated in the post liospital. All of these cases terminated favorably. [These four cases are included in the preceding memoranda of forty cases. I have taken the liberty of subdividing the report and classified return made by Dr. Weeds. There was no surgeon with this command ; but the wounded, being taken to the nearest post. Dr. Weeds, the post sur- geon, offered a good and much needed example, by complying with the spirit as well as the I'etter of the circular from this office of March 23, 1864, and the instructions on Form 55, Medical Depart- ment, in forwarding the reqiiired Classified Return of Wounds and Injuries and Report of Casual- ties in the absence of a medical officer attached to the command.—Ed.] The force with which arrows are projected by the Indians is so great that it has been estimated that the initial velocity of the missile nearly equals that of a musket ball. At a short distance, an ar- row will perforate the larger bones without comminuting them. Fig. 31. Section of shaft of seventh right rib of a buffalo with impacted arrow-head. Spec. 4735, Sect. I, A. M. M. or causing a slight fissure Fig. 32. Section of the eleventh right rib of a buffalo fissured by an arrow. Spec. 4736, Sect. I, A. M. M. only, resembling the ef- fect of a pistol ball fired through a pane of glass a few yards off. This is well illustrated in two preparations presented to the Army Medical Museum by Professor Joseph Henry, in which the dense laminated portions of the shafts of ribs of the buffalo are transfixed by arrows. These are represented in the wood-cuts (Pigs. 31, 32 ) The arrow- points penetrating the bones have not produced the slightest splintering, and in one case not even Assuring. The fissure in the right hand figure is much more conspicuous than in the specimen. I have frequently been informed, by offi- cers who served on the Plains, that it was not infrequent for an Indian to send an arrow fairly through the body of a horse or of a buffalo, provided the missile entered one of the intercostal spaces, and did not impinge on bone on the opposite side. That this statement is well founded is rendered probable by the evidence afibrded by a preparation for- warded to the museum by Hospital Steward R Wall, U. S. A., of a portion of the left scapula of a buffalo, with an arrow-head imbedded in it. The barbed iron head of the arrow has entered the venter of the scapula and the. point protrudes from the dorsum, so that the missile must have passed through the thorax. The speci- men is from a buffalo killed near Fort Sedgwick, in 1860, by a Cheyenne Indian. Fig. 33. Section oi the left scapula of a bufl'alo, transfixed by an arrow. Spec, 4727, Sect. I, A. M. M.