97 INCISED AND PUNCTURED WOUNDS. about as thick as a quill, and spirted to a distance of over two feet, A compress of lint soaked in solution of persulphate of iron was immediately applied to the wound, while an assistant applied the tourniquet. The arm was then bound up very tightly in a roller bandage. About an hour after- wards the tourniquet had to be removed, owing to the intense pain and swelling in the fore-arm and hand. When the tourniquet was removed, the radial pulse was very weak, and continued so for twenty-four hours, after which it gradually increased in strength; there was no after h;emorrhage, and in ten days the bandage was removed, when the wound was found to be entirely healed. Pa- tient is entirely well now, except a slight stiffness of the muscles of the arm, which is being relieved by manipulation and friction. The man was returned to duty in July, 1869. CCCXXI.—Account of an Incised Wound of the Fore-Arm. By O. Caughill, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Corporal Gustave Mueller, Co. I, 19th Infantry, was admitted to the post hosj)ital at Dovei', Arkansas, Ajiril 10, 1868, having been accidentally struck on the back of the fore-arm with an axe, in the hands of a comrade, while in the act of choi>ping wood. On examination the extensor cari)i ulnaris, communis digitorum, carpi radialis brevior, and ossis metacarpi i)ollicis muscles w^ere found divided, making an incision about three and a half inches long. The posterior interosseous recurrent artery and one of its principal branches were severed. The radius was fractured at its middle in three pieces. The patient was extremely weak and very much exhaiisted from loss of blood. I immediately proceeded to ligatethe severed arteries and extract the loose pieces of bone; the lips of the wound were then brought together by an iuterruiited silk suture and the two edges of the bone in apposition ; splints were applied on the anterior and posterior surfaces of the fore-arm. While the arteries were being ligated and bones brought in apposition, chloroform was adminis- tered. At 9 o'clock P. M., the patient was suffering extreme i^ain. An anodyne was adminis- tered and quiet enjoined. He was doing well until midnight of the 12th, when the arm commenced swelling rapidly and he seemed to experience intense pain. On the next day the arm was much inflamed; w^ound suiipurating slowly, and extreme heat extending up to the shoulder-joint. At 12 M. the patient had a chill, attended with little or no fever. His appetite was good. The pos- terior splint was removed, together with the dressings. The anterior splint was kept under the arm without being bound to it; pulse 90. Cold applications were made, and stimulating diet given, and on April 16th the inflammation had subsided to a great degree. At 6 o'clock P. M. arterial hajinorrhage took place from a branch that had evidently become enlarged from the colla- teral circulation. I immediately cut down and ligated it, and api)lied persulphate of iron to the wound to check the capillary bleeding, the arm being very vascular. The patient lost about twelve ounces of blood and was very much weakened. After ligating the artery the arm became considerably engorged, and he experienced intense pain. On Aiiril 17th the collateral circulation throughoiit the arm was thoroughly established. Under the administration of stimulants and nutritious diet his condition improved, the inflammation subsided and healthy granulations sprang up. The wound filled up rapidly, and on May 31st had entirely closed, leaving a very deep scar. He was discharged from service November 16, 1868. CCCXXII.—Account of an Incised Wound of the Thigh. By E. Alexander, M. D., Acting Assist- ant Surgeon. Private Joseph B. Smith, Co. G, 25th Infantry, aged 21 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Jackson, Louisiana, on January 18, 1870, with a cut four and a half inches long, inflicted with a razor, about the middle of the thigh, cutting deeply the adductor iongus, sartorius, and part of the rectus muscles. There was little haemorrhage, although some veins seemed to be torn. The lips of the wound were brought together in accurate contact, and secured with sutures, adhesive straps, and roller bandages, interspaces being left for the purpose of drainage. There was little tendency to suppuration, but the discharges were frequently removed with a soft sponge satiirated with a solution of carbolic acid. He recovered, and was returned to duty in March, 1870. 13