EEPOET OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 120 CCCLXXXVIII.—Notes of a Fatal Head Injury, with Fracture of the Inner Table only. By A. C. GiRABD, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A, Private A. Grevenberg, Co. C, 39tli Infontry, was beaten on the head with a club, by a soldier, in a quarrel. The aftray took place at Fort Pike, Louisiana, in April, 18G8. Although stunned at lirst, he soon recovered his senses, and remained conscious about an hour. After that time, he commenced to be wandering, and gradually became violently delirious. He had antiphlogistic treatment. After a protracted coma and muttering delirium, he died the next day, thirty hours after injury. The autopsy was made twelve hours after death. There was a large extravasation of blood between the scalp and periosteum. The exteriml lamina of the occipital bone was intact. The internal lamina was splintered at its junction with the parietal bones; one splinter, sharp as a needle, protruding into the torcularHerophili. The dura mater was in a state of hyperaemia. Between the hemispheres, and specially on the right side, there was large extravasation of blood; in the naiddle fossa, a clot the size of a pigeon's egg. The lateral ventricles were filled with bloody serous fluid; the subarachnoidal interstices contained much serum. The right ventricle of the heart was flabby, the heart filled with dark blood clots. Other organs in a healthy condition. In my opin- ion, death was the consequence of the opening of the venous sinus by the constant friction of the splinter of bone, referred to, during the pulsation of the brain. [The specimen, unhappily, not forwarded to the Museum.—Ed.] CCCLXXXIX.—Account of a Fatal Fracture of the SI hU. By H. S. Schell, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. At Savannah, Georgia, September 10, 18GG, William Hier, seaman, aged 18 years, received an accidental wound of the head by a fall, fracturing the left temporal bone. He was admitted to the post hospital on the same day. Cold-water dressings were applied, and purgatives given. He died September 21, 18G6, from effusion of blood on the dura mater causing meningitis. CCCXC—Remarlcs on a Case of Fracture of the SJcull. By J. T. Augur, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Lieutenant Louis M. Hughes, Co. K, 7th Infantry, while in search of a man who had stolen some Government mules, near Camp Miner's Delight, Wyoming Territory, February 13, 1870, was fatally injured by falling down a miner's shaft, thirty-six feet deep, striking upon his head. When taken out he was profoundly insensible; skin pale and cold; pulse feeble and intermittent; and res- piration stertoi'ous. There was a transverse wound eight inches long, situated about an inch above the juncture of the sagittal and lambdoid sutures. The right parietal bone was fractured and depressed, and accompanied with alarming hi^morrhage from the ears and nose. There was also a severe cut on the forehead which extended to the frontal bone, and contusion and bruises of the right hip and hand. Death took place at 12.20 o'clock A. M,, February 14, 1870. CCCXCI.—Memorandum of a Case of Compound. Fracture of the Skull. By J. K. Corson, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Michael Hurley, Co. F, 30th Infantry, was believed to have been struck by a locomo. five on the Union Pacific Bail way, near Fort Fred Steele, Wyoming Territory, on October 15,1868, his body having been found near the railroad, where he had probably been lying since the evening before. His injuries consisted of a compound comminuted fracture of the temporal bone, with depression, the fracture, evidently, extending to the base of the skull. A number of fragments were extracted, and the depressed bone was elevated; the wound was lightly dressed, and the patient was kept lying on the injured side. After pressure was removed, he was able to speak, so far as to ask for water, but would answer no questions. He was entirely pulseless and blanched. He had bled profusely before assistance arrived, but had no hsemorrhage afterward. Stimulants were administered, and every means was used to bring on reaction, but without effect. He died October 18.