AMPUTATIONS AT THE ANKLE JOINT. 195 amputate tlivougli the metatarsus, with a view of performing a secondary operation after the soft parts of the foot had sufficiently recovered by cicatrization. Ether having been administered, the right foot was disarticukited by carrying an incision from the insertion of the tendo-Achillis into tlie OS calcis, over the external aspect of the foot immediately below the external malleolus, curving over the instep forward and one inch in front of the tibio-tarsal articulation, then down to and along the internal margin of the foot to the point of departure. This flap included all the healthy tissues on the inside of the foot. The joint was opened from the outside and the os calcis separated from the soft parts, the edge of the scalpel being kept close to the bone. The malleoli and a connecting slice of the tibia were removed with the saw; four arteries were tied and several others twisted ; the tendons were trimmed, and sufficient of the posterior tibial nerve to clear the cicatrix. The flap was adjusted with four metallic sutures and adhesive straps, and formed a good cover for the extremities of the bones. The left foot was amputated in the usual manner, through the metatarsus at the junction of the anterior and middle thirds. The flap which was raised from the sole was adjusted by straps and covered the extremities of the metatarsals well, with the exception of the first. Three ligatures were required. The loss of blood was insignificant. The stumps were dressed with carbolated ointment. The iiatient reacted feebly, but without vomiting or nausea; pulse 125 at C o'clock P. M. The stumps being very painful, and to facilitate dressing and cleansing, his limbs were slung in Smith's anterior splint, and suspended from the ceiling, which, in addition to a rope with a handle so suspended as to be in his reach, enabled the patient to shift his i^osition conveniently. The suppuration from the left stump soon became copious; the flaj) of the right had firmly cicatrized on January 21st, with the exception of three-fourths of an inch at its lower angle. The ligatures came away between the seventh and eleventh days. The patient was doing comparatively well until January 23d, when the granulations of the left foot grew i)ale, then grayish, as if covered with a delicate film; the pus became scanty and of a grayish color, the flap shrinking and the right stump secreting a small quantity of similar pus. The patient ; was drowsy, lost his appetite, had rigors in the earlier part of the afternoon and profuse sweats at night. In addition to the chalybeates and quinine which the patient had been taking, he was ordered a solution of chlorinated soda, largely diluted, during the day and morphine followed hy hydrate of chloral in the evening, these latter drugs effectively producing sleep and controlling pain, but less so when given separately than when combined. Irrigation was applied to the left foot, with solution of permanganate of potassa, and the body sponged twice a day with aromatic water. Nourishing diet and stimulants were ordered. On February 6th, two small abscesses on the right stumi) were opened. On the 11th the patient complained of severe pain in the right side of the chest; respiration shallow and frequent; a distinct sound of friction and some subcrepitus perceived over the right lower lobe. The chlorides were almost absent from his urine; iiatient greatly emaciated and complexion sallow. On February 14th, at 2 o'clock A. M., he had a severe chill lasting one hour; on the 19th the right knee became tender, and on the 22d swollen and exquisitly painful on the slightest touch ; this gradually im^jroved under the application of tincture of iodine. The patient was very weak and prostrated, his whole frame being harassed by severe neuralgic pains. He complained of much pain in the right stump, where some healthy pus discharged from the incisions made February Gfh, but no necrosed bone could be felt on i)robing. The slough over the left heel did not separate until February 26th, leaving the heel bone denuded to the extent of a circle three-fourths of an inch in diameter. On March 1st, the stump of the right leg had healed, but was somewhat tender and enlarged; the left foot was covered with healthy granulations, the first metatarsal bone being uncovered to the extent of one-fourth of an inch, and necrosed; the flap over the other metatarsals had cicatrized and formed a good cover. On March 4th pustules and small abscesses formed over the trunk and lower extremities; on March 5th the cicatricial tissue over shaft of fifth metatarsal bone sloughed and separated, on the 13th leaving the external surface of this bone denuded to the extent of one inch. The condition of the patient gradually improved, and on March 28th it was decided to remove the necrosed parts of the heel and first metatarsal bone. The patient having been etherized, a disk of bone corresponding to the point of the heel, of the size and thickness of a silver dollar, was removed with the chisel; a small abscess being discovered iu the bone the carious parts were scraped and gouged away. An incision was next made over the exteinal aspect of the first metatarsal bone, and its shaft found to