252 EEPOET OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE AKMY. three daily, not from a diarrhoea, but apparently from the desire to defecate being excited by the condition of the parts. He had been treated in (piarters with astringent injections and suppositories, but without l)enefit. The protrusion, which almost amounted to a prolapsus of the rectum, was returned with difliculty. Shortly afterward I placed three silk ligatures well up around three of the most prominent projections, the gut being first caused to protrude as much as possible by the patient sitting for some time over a vessel of hot water in a squatting posture and using straining and expulsive efforts. The ligatures came away on the tenth day. He made a good recovery, having been kept quiet on his back, and opiates administered; in two weeks he was employed as a helper in the dispensary, and was returned to duty with his company on October 2, 18G7. DOLXXXIX.—Minute of an Operation for the Eemoval of Hcvmorrhoids. By J. F. Boughter, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private James McNally, Co. D, 22d Infantry, aged 36 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Dakota, with ijiternal hiiemorrhoids, on July 3, 18GS. On July 7th, ligatures were ajjplied to two large and vascular tumors, which were congested and sensitive to the touch. Kecovery being rapid, the i)atient was returned to duty July 18th, and was mustered out of service August 4, 18C8, the hsTemorrhoids not having returned. Operations on the Genito-Urinary Organs.—Several successful and highly inter- esting operations for lithotomy were reported, and a number of operations for stricture, and one of supra-pubic puncture of the bladder for retention of urine. The prevalence of venereal affections, unhappily not less common in our own than in other armies, caused circumcision or other operations for phimosis to be not infrequent. DCXC—Memoranda of Fourteen Cases of Phimosis in lohich Operations icere performed. By B, A. Clements, Surgeon, U. S. A.; C. Smaet, C. R. Gkeenleaf, 0. B. White, and Harvey E. Brown, Assistant Surgeons, U. S. A.; and E. Woodruff, M.D., B.F. Slaughter, M. D., A. Ansell, M. D., and R. McCraicen, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeons. Case 1.—Private John Anderson, Co. E, 32d Infantry, aged 22 years, was admitted to the hospital at Oami) Lowell, Tucson, Arizona Territory, September 27,1808, suffering from congenital phimosis. On September 28th Assistant Surgeon Charles Smart, U. S. A., removed the prei)uce. The patient had recovered October 10, 18G8. Case 2.—Private Henry Hoffman, Co. C, 2d Infantry, aged 23 years, was admitted to the hospital at Taylor Barracks, Louisville, Kentucky, November G, 18G8, with phimosis, and a large mass of venereal warts on the inner side of prepuce. On November 7th, Assistant Surgeon Charles R. Greenleaf removed the prepuce. December 2, 18G8, the patient had entirely recovered. Case 3.—Private Isaac Taylor, Co. I, 2d Infantry, aged 22 years, was admitted to the hospital at Taylor Barracks, Louisville, Kentucky, November G, 18G8, with gonorrhea and phimosis. Acting- Assistant Surgeon Ezra Woodruff' removed the prepuce, December 2, 18G8. On December 31st the patient had entirely recovered. Case 4.—Private Edward Burke, Co. G, IGth Infantry, was admitted to the hospital at Hum- boldt, Tennessee, with balanitis and phimosis. On August 20, 1870, Acting Assistant Surgeon B. F. Slaughter divided the prepuce from the corona glandis outward. Cold-water dressings were applied, and on September 3, 1870, the patient was returned to duty. Case 5.—Private John T. Talbot, Co. G, 25tli Infantry, was admitted to Jackson Barracks Hospital, New Orleans, June 25, 18G9, with congenital phimosis, aggravated hj gonorrhoea. On July 2.5th, Surgeon B. A. Clements operated by circumcision. Owing to the contact of irritating discharge, the parts healed slowly by granulation. The patient made an excellent recovery, the