EEPOET OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 62 CCVII.—3Ientio7i of a Ounslwt Fracture of the Humerus. By B. E. Fryer, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Frank Critb, Co. G, 3Stli Infantry, was accidentally wounded on September 4, 18G7, by a couoidal ball which fractured the right humerus at the middle third. He was admitted into the post hospital at Fort Harker, Kansas, on September 5th, from the garrison. Simple dressings were used, and angular splints were api)lied. He was returned to duty.* CCVIII.—Note of a Case of Gunshot Fracture of the Humerus. By J. V. D. Middleton, Assistant Surgeon, IT. S. A. At Austin, Texas, June 24, 1869, William Bently, a citizen prisoner, aged 38 years, was shot while attempting to escape. The missile, a conoidal ball, fractured the left arm. He was admitted to the post hospital on the same day. Splints and bandages were applied. He was discharged from further treatment on October 17, 1809. Gunshot Wounds of the Eibotv.—Besides reports of cases requiring operations, four special reports were made of gunshot wounds of the elbow, two referring to cases in which the articulation was opened. CCIX.—Account of a Case of Gunshot Fracture of the Humerus. By W. H. Hopper, Acting Assistant Surgeon. At Lebanon, Kentucky, August 21, 1869, Private Alexander C. Moore, Co. I, 14th Inf^mtry, aged 23 years, was wounded by a conoidal ball, which passed through the inferior extremity of humerus, splitting off' the external condyle, and lodged in the mixscular tissue on the anterior surface of the arm. He was admitted to the regimental hospital. Simple dressings were applied and the wound was daily injected with solution of carbolic acid, and covered with lint saturated with the same. September 30th, union of the fractured ends had taken place, and the wound healed with scarcely any suppuration. He was discharged January 21, 1870. There was partial anchylosis of the elbow-joint. CCX.—Mention of a Gunshot Wound of the Elbow-Joint. By J. O. D. CreaGHE, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Willis Graves, Co. F, 19th Infantry, aged 18 years, received on August 29, 1806, at Camden, Arkansas, a penetrating gunshot wound of the left elbow-joint. He was at once admitted to the iiost hospital. The bullet had passed through the upper part of the articulation, shattered tlie whole of the external condyle of humerus, and passed out posteriorly. Acting Assistant Sur- geon J. O. D. Creaghe enlarged the posterior orifice, and removed all fragjuents of bone. Septem- ber 30th, the wound was nearly healed. He was discharged October 30, 1806, his disability being rated one-third. CCXI.—Account of a Gunshot Wound of the Elbow-Joint. By J. O. D. Creaghe, Acting Assist- ant Surgeon. At Camden, Arkansas, December 14, 1866, Private Eobert Clarke, Co. B, 28th Infantry, aged 22 years, received a wound from a conoidal pistol ball, which peneti*ated behind the internal con- dyle of left humerus, and passing in front of elbow-joint made its exit external to, and a little below, the head of the radius. He was admitted to i)ost hospital December 18, 1806. Simple dressings were applied. He was returned to duty in January, 1867. * Nearly a year later, in August, 18()8, this soldier entered the post liosjiital at Fort Hays, and underwent an excision of the shaft of the humerus. The further history will be given in the chapter on operations.—Ed.