232 EKPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. wound had far advanced toward licaling. For the next six weeks there was very little chanfje in the daily record. The patient's convalescence progressed favorably, and by February L'S the wound Avas open at two ])oints only. Consti^tation was still a troublesome complication ; the patient being annoyed by injections, he was ordered to take a three-grain compound cathartic pill nightly. By the end of March the patient was able to sit up. There were still two fistulous sinuses leading toward the cotyloid cavity. About an ounce of pus was discharged daily. The limb was about five inches shorter than the other. On the 10th of April, the patient got on crutches, but could not * walk far without fatigue. For the next twenty days he seemed disinclined to exert himself, but was taken out every fair day in a wheeled litter. One of the sinuses had closed. By July 8th, the patient had gained in flesh and strength, and the purulent discharge had diminished to a few drops daily. The limb was swollen considerably, and there was an erysipelatous blush extending below the knee. At this date Dr. Meachain was ordered to Oinaha, and the patient passed into the hands of Acting Assistant Surgeon L. S. Tesson, who, on July 29, wrote to Dr. Meacham that quite a large abscess formed in the nuiscles of the thigh. On August 0th, Dr. Tesson again wrote that it had been necessary twice to make incisions to evacuate abscesses in the thigh. Again, on March 9, 1871, Acting Assistant Surgeon A. J. Ilogg writes that the man is entirely well, the cicatrix being perfectly sound; but the man persisted in lying in bed. On April 1, 1871, Dr. Meacham reports that he had succeeded in getting his patient again under his personal observation, pi^evious to which he had borne transportation in an ambulance for ninety niiles, and appeai'ed in better spirits at the end of the journey than when he set out. The wound had entirely healed, leaving a firm and sound cicatrix three inches in length. The patient was able to walk comfortably on crutches and had slight control over the limb, which admitted of a to-and-fro motion, with rotation inward. The upper end of the femur rested on the dorsum of the ilium about one inch abo\e the acetabulum, and was movable in that position. There was six and a half inches shortening. The patient was somewhat hypochondriacal, being greatly troiibled with indigestion and irregular bowels. By an order dated A. G. O., June 9, 1871, it was provided that Private Erne shoidd be sent to the Soldiers' Home. A communication from Dr. Meacham, dated June 14, 1871, states that this man is much better, and will soon be able to comply with the provisions of the above order. [Private Erne was discharged the service on surgeon's certificate of disability, May 18,1871. The lithograph opposite (Plate III) is copied from a photograph" taken at Omaha, March 30,1871, No. 303, Surg. Series, A. M. M.—Ed.] DCXLI.—Account of a Successful Case of Excision of the Eip-Joint for Gunshot Injury. Condensed from a Eeport of W. E. Taylor, Surgeon, U. S, Navy. Charles B. Scott, a seaman of the United States Navy, aged 31 years, of fair general health, was wounded in the line of dutj^ while an attack was being made on a piratical vessel in Tecapan Kiver, west coast of Mexico, June 17, 1870. A couoidal musket ball, entering the left nates midway between the great trochanter and point of coccyx, fractured and comminuted the head and neck of the femur, and lodged nearly in the centre of its head. The weapon inflicting the wound was fired from shore, a distance of about eighty yards, the patient being at the time in a stooping posture in one of the cutters. After a long sea voyage of eleven days, he was admitted, on July 12, 1870, from the United States ship Mohican to the naval hospital. Mare Island, California. Cold-water dressings had been applied to the wound, and anodynes administered when required. His general condition was decidedly below par. The least movement in the injured joint caused severe i)ain ; he did not sleep well, and his appetite was poor. Full diet with milk, and an anodyne at night, were ordered. On July 14, an examination of the wound was made. No anresthetic was used, and the result was unsatisfactory. However, appearances led to the belief that the head and neck of the femur were extensively fractured. Nothing was felt that was supposed to be the ball. The joint was not swollen, but was very sensitive, and there was a scanty, sanious, and fo'tid discharge from the wound. The patient's condition was much better than could be exi^ected after such a serious injury. His appetite im^jroved ; there was no hectic; he slept tolerably well, and his bowels were regular. Circumstances indicating beyond a doubt the necessity of operative interference, it was desirable to get the patient in as good condition as possible, whereupon a tonic mixture, with