53 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE PELVIS. Gunshot Wounds of the Pelvis.—Detailed reports of eight grave cases of this class were transmitted, and memoranda of a few slighter cases, which will be noted among ih-Qjlesh wounds oi the trunk further on. Seven of the grave cases were fatal. CLXYII.—Report oj a Case of Gunsliot Fracture of the Pelvis. By J. T. ScoTT, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Isam Davis, Co. D, 9tli United States Cavalry, in a quarrel with a comrade at Fort Stockton, Texas, July 4,1868, was mortally wounded by a ball from a carbine. The ball entered the iliac region, above Poupart's ligament, ranging downward and backward, striking the ilium on the pectineal line, shattering the acetabulum andtheheadof the femur, audlodgingin the anterior muscles of the thigh. As there was no hope of preserving his life, only palliative treatment was resorted to. He died July 21, 1868, of pyaemia. OLXVIII.—Memorandum of a Case of Gimslwl Fracture of the Pelvis. By William Shackle- ford, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private James Johnson, Co. F, 23d United States Infantry, aged 28 years, was accidentally wounded by the discharge of a carbine, in the hands of a man who was cleaning it, on November 25, 1867. The missile entered to the right of tlie symphisis pubis, over the right spermati(! cord, lacerating the sheath, and bruising the vessels seriously, passed downward and backward, divid- ing the penis in front of the prostate gland, and passed out through the left nates. At the time of the reception of the injury he was in a thin and anremic condition. Hjemorrhage was slow at first, owing probably to a greater quantity of blood being caught in the scrotum than passed out of the mouths of the wound. The wound was more lacerated than usual, owing, as was afterward ascertained, to the ball having struck liis cartridge box, flattening itself upon another ball before entering the body. The haemorrhage, though slow, continued some time, until the man was con- siderably weakened, but finally ceased without any dangerous symptoms arising from this cause. Serious trouble was apprehended from the mass of blood collected in the scrotum, and also from the urine that must empty there. He was admitted into the hospital at Camp Watson, Oregon, on the same day. Stimulants were freely given, collections of clothing taken in by the ball were removed, and sulphate of morphia was given in half-grain doses. After he had recovered and become quiet, a catheter was introduced, and a puncture was made, with a trocar, in the scrotum to remove the blood collected there. There was then forced a stream of warm water into the scrotum, through the catheter in the i)enis, passing out both through the wounds and scrotum. The morphia was discontinued at night, but whiskey was given freely, and diet ad, libitum as his appetite returned. 26th: Patient as well as could be expected; passed a tolerably quiet night; scrotum much distended and black. Considerable clotted blood was removed hj suck- ing it into the catheter. Fomentations were applied. His diet consisted of chicken broth, soft-boiled eggs, tea and toast, whiskey in small quantities. 27th: He is in the same condition, excepting a pain in the right iliac region and small of back; treatment contiuned. 28th: He is in a great deal of pain. The scrotum is very much distended. There has been no movement of bowels or bladder since the day of wound, (before wound.) An injection of warm soap suds was ordered; this produced a free evacuation of the bowels, after which the urine passed off" through the scrotum and wound, though none through penis. 29th: He is not so well to-day, discoloration extending up the abdomen, together with swelling and increase of i^ain, also loss of appetite. Diet continued, but whisky changed for sherry wine. 30th: He is peevish, appearance haggard, scrotum very much swollen and painful, abdomen hard and swollen, urine still passing away through scrotum and wound. One-fourth of a grain of morphia was given every four hours, beef-tea every half hour. December 1st: He is in the same condition as yesterday, with the addition of vomiting. Continued the application of warm water, but administered no medicine to-day. 2d, there are symptoms of peritonitis, the abdomen presenting the appearance of that of a corpse inflated with gas. Singul- tus set in. He continued to take both stimulants and chicken broth, but retained nothing within the