INCISED AND PUNCTUKED WOUNDS. 91 CCOX. Report of an Incised Wound of the Heart. By Dallas Bache, Assistant Sargeou, U. S. A. Artificer Tiiomas Darclis, Co. F, lOtli Infantry, was stabbed with an ordinary jaclc-knife, in the hands of a comrade, on September 19, 18G9, at San Antonio, Texas. Upon being wounded he ran probably thirty yards, with his arms folded across his chest, and then fell. He was instantly removed to the barracks, where respiration ceased in twelve minutes after the reception of the injury. A j)ost-mortem examination, made fifteen hours after death, disclosed three wounds upon the anterior parietes of the chest—one superficial over the lower third of the sternum; the second, two and a half inches in length, dividing the cartilage of the sixth rib and penetrating the thoracic cavity, without however wounding the lung; the third and fatal wound, two and a quarter inches in length, two inches below the left nipple, opened the pericardium, and, splitting across the apex of the heart, made an opening in the right ventricle sufficiently large to admit an ordinary silver probe. The clothing on the left side and below the wound was soaked with blood. CCCXI.—Report of an Incised Wound of tTie Sternum and Heart. By C. S. De Graw, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. At Fort Dodge, Kansas, on the night of June 2, 1867, a quarrel arose between two men, one known as Buckskin, in Government employ at the post, the other an employ^ of the Santa Fe Mail Stage Company. Both men were under the influence of liquor. From words they came to blows, and during the fight Buckskin drew a knife, with which he inflicted several superficial cuts upon the other, who at last succeeded in catching Buckskin, by the wrist of the hand holding the knife, and, turning it upon him still holding it, drove it with great force against his breast. Buckskin fell at once to the ground. Upon being summoned, and reaching the spot a few minutes after, I found Buckskin dead. Upon inquiry, I learned that after falling he had continued to breathe from five to eight minutes. A post-mortem examination, held the next morning by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. B. Ci'andall and myself, demonstrated the wounds as shown by the specimens. The knife is a case-knife such as is in common use among men on the plains. [The specimens, Nos. 4869, 4870, 4871, Section I, A. M. M., are the heart, with an incised wound of the right auricle; the sternum, with an incision obliquely downward from right to left through the gladiolus; and the knife by which the wounds were inflicted.—Ed.] CCCXII.—Account of a Penetrating Wound of the Thoracic and Abdominal Cavities. By W. D. WOLVERTON, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Bernhard Kelly, Co. C, 1st Infantry, aged 20 years, received July 23, 1868, a wound by a case-knife in the hands of Private Kennedy, Co. A, 1st Infantry, which penetrated the left side between the seventh and eighth ribs, grazing the left lung, passing through the diaphragm downward into the stomach, causing peritonitis and death, which resulted on the 2Cth. CCCXIII.—Note of a Penetrating Wound of the Abdomen and Thorax. By C. E. Goddard, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Sergeant William Tynes, Co. E, 16th Infantry, aged 21 years, was wounded by a dagger during an encounter with Private Barlow of the same regiment, on November 16, 1866. The weapon penetrated the abdomen and thorax. The patient was admitted to the post hospital at Chatta- nooga on the same day, and simple dressings were applied. Death resulted on the day of admission. CCCXIV,—Report of a Case of Incised Wound of the Stomach, Terminating in Recovery. By B. A. Clements, Surgeon, U. S. A. George Smith, an unassigned recruit, aged 22, a robust German, was stabbed in the abdomen, during an altercation at Jackson Barracks, New Orleans, on the evening of January 2, 1870. He was at once brought to the post hospital. Upon examination, a clean incised wound was found, inflicted with a dirk, the blade of which entered two and a quarter inches to the left of the median