247 OPEEATIONS ON THE AIE PASSAGES. made one and a half inclies long, " exactly in the median line," through the skin and superficial ti-ssues; the cervical fascia was next i)inched up with a pair of forceps and divided on a grooved director ; this being done the knife was laid aside and the point of a strong steel director used to sfeparate the sterno hyoid muscles, and clear a way to the windpipe ; the lips of the wound were held apart by blunt hooks ; the trachea, thus exposed, was kept steady by a tenaculum in the hands of an assistant, and opened with, a small scalpel, inserted with the point toward the cricoid cartilage and the edge upward. By the aid of Trousseau's dilator, a double canula was quickly introduced, and the operation completed. The patient soon awoke, breathing easily; it looked about more calmly, and bore on its face a sense of relief and comfort; it lay at rest on a bed, taking nourish- ment and water, until two o'clock in the morning, when it again began to breathe with difficulty, and died at 5 o'clock A. M. A child, — years old, son of Mr. Page, of Frederick, Maryland, was seized with symptoms of membraneous croup, January 2,1870, while on a visit to an officer of the Army stationed in Wash- ington. It was six days under treatment by the usual remedies, and, in addition, was treated with lime water atomized by the "hand apparatusthe patient, possessed of more intelligence than is common to children of that age, willingly inhaled through the mouth-piece whenever it was pre- sented. Tracheotomy, earlier advised, was not performed until literally the last moment; the face and lips were congested, the hands and feet cold, and the breathing slow and gasping. While in this condition, chloroform was administered, and the operation was begun ; but before the trachea could be reached, it was remarked that the heart's action had ceased ; the operation was, neverthe- less, continued, and the child revived under artificial respiration, maintained by pressure on the abdomen with the hand, firmly and repeatedly api^lied. It lived two days and eight hours; was able to take beef-tea, water, and milk-punch, and preferred to help itself to ice from a saucer placed at the bedside. It finally succumbed to the constitutional effect of the disease. In both these cases, some hfemorrhage occurred from a vein, which is unavoidable in dividing the cervical fascia, crossing, as it does, the line of incision, midway between the cricroid cartilage and the sternum ; though very small, it was seen and examined in the second case, as it lay im- mediately upon the fascia when raised on a grooved director. Haemorrhage from this source soon ceased, and was of so little consequence, that I would not think it worth while to allude to it, had I not found it practicable, with this exception, to go through all the steps of the operation without the loss of more blood than is caused by the first incision through the skin. Keeping the canula clean, and removing exudation from the trachea below the artificial opening, we ascertained to be a very important part of the nurse's duty. In the first case, which lived fifteen hours, a feather, cut off at the end, was used to cleanse the canula. In the second case, which lived fiftj-eight hours, a tube cleaner, belonging to "Mawson's nursing bottle," was discovered to be the " ue plus ultra" for this purpose, and for clearing the trachea below the tube. It was dipped in water, shaken, and introduced as far as it would go, even beyond the bifurcation of the trachea; it was withdrawn loaded with thick mucus, and often with partial casts of false membrane. The use of this instru- ment was freqiiently necessary to relieve the breathing, and it was introduced as many times as in the judgment of the attendant the emergencj' required. DCLXXIX—.—Report of a Successful Case of Tracheotomy. By William M. Xotson, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Patrick McMahon, a private of Co. H, 11th Infantry, aged 23, was admitted to hospital at Fort Concho, Texas, on September 12, 1870, with a longitudinal fracture at the angle of the lower jaw, supposed to have been caused by a kick received in a general fight in the guard-house. On the 18th, the patient being moribund, with the throat, neck, and head much swollen, it was decided to perform tracheotomy, which was done, at midnight, by Assistant Surgeon William M. Notson, IT. S. A., assisted by Acting Assistant Surgeons J. A. McCoy and C. W. Knight. The incision was made below the isthmus of the thyroid gland. The constitutional state of the patient was favorable from age, but unfavorable from the fact that he had been on a debauch. The tube remained in the opening ten days. Light, liquid diet was allowed, and soup enemata were adminis-