95 INCISED AND PUNCTUEED WOUNDS. CCCKYL—Account of a Wotmd of the Abdomen followed by Peritonitis. By E, A. Koerper, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Joliu Gill, Co. H, 19tli Infantry, aged 21 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Baton Eouge, November 9, 1869, having, a few minutes before admission, received a wound of the abdomen, inflicted with a pocket-knife. The wound was on the median line, on a line between the hypogastric and umbilical regions, and was two and a half inches long in a transverse direction. At each inspiration a copious stream of blood escaped from it. A portion of the omentum pro- truded. There was no escape of the contents of the stomach or bowels. A cautions examina- tion did not reveal any lesion of the intestines. The omentum was replaced, the wound sewed up externally, ice applied to the abdomen, and opium given. Patient vomited soon after. The pulse, which had been very high and excited, became almost imperceptible, and death was expected to take place. In three hours, however, he rallied and became extremely restless. Peritonitis, with high pulse, set in, and he complained of much pain. Blood continued to escape between the sutures. The ice and opium were kept up, and small pieces of ice were given to allay thirst. The most alarming symptoms gradually subsided, and the colon was emptied after six days by an injection. Encouraged by this, citrate of magnesia was given on the following day, bringing away a great quantity of fteces, without blood or any appearance of lesion of the intestines. He continued to improve, and on December 31st lie could sit up half an hour at a time, but was very much emaciated and suffered from pain in the abdomen. He was returned to duty in January, 1870. CCCXVII.—Account of an Incised Wound of the Abdomen. By J. P. A. Cleaky, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. George Adams, Co. A, 9th Cavalry, aged 23 years, of healthy constitution, while iu a quarrel with another soldier, at Fort Stockton, Texas, in September, 1870, received two cuts with a knife; one extended from the right elbow to within a few inches of the wrist; the other com- menced on a line with the sternal end of the ninth rib, and running in a horizontal direction, ter- minated within half an inch of the linea alba, being, altogether, two and a half inches long. He was wounded about 3 o'clock, on the 4th, and I saw him about ten minutes after. Condition when brought to the hospital, ten minutes after receipt of wound: Almost the entire stomach protruded through the wound, and about 18 inches of the transverse colon, with a considerable amount of omentum. He was in collapse, covered with i^rofuse cold sweat; pulse weak and 130; constant vomiting. Treatment: Endeavored to replace the protruded mass, having first admin- istered an ounce of whiskey. Failing in this, the wound was extended about half an inch toward the linea alba, but the mass could not be returned; frequent vomiting to considerable extent pre- vented its return, and forced fjecal matter into the protruded intestine. The wound was then slightly extended at its other extremity, and by a little manipulation the entire mass was returned and the wound closed by three suture-pins and one common suture at either end of the wound; cold-water dressings were applied. The wound in the arm was treated with five sutures and strips of adhesive plaster and cold water. He was kept under the influence of opium, combined with calomel, from the date of admission to the 7th, He slept well every night, and at no time did he sufier severely with abdominal pain, though he complained frequently of tenderness over right hypogastric region. Sutures removed on 7th; bowels moved once on the 7th, the first time since he was wounded. He convalesced rapidly and was soon able to walk about the camp. He was returned to duty in October, 1870. CCCXVIII.—An Incised Wound of the Abdomen^ through which protruded a Portion of the Colon, the entire Stomach, and nearly all of the 8mall Intestines, together with Mesentery and Omentum. By F. Barnes, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Edward Brown, colored, aged 25 years, was admitted to the Freedmen's Hospital, New Orleans, May 15, 1868. About 10 o'clock on the night of May 14, I found the patient in a cab. about to be removed from the first district lock-up, and ordered him back that his wound might be dressed. I