TETANUS. 271 spasms following any attempt to lie on the side. Wine and milk were, however, cantiously continued, but the further exhibition of the Calabar bean was discontinued until the pupils should show a tendency toward enlargement. The patient suffered no.pain either in right side, back, or neck, yet every few minutes his head was thrown back, and his chest and abdomen forward by the action of the muscles, while his riglit hand clutched at the epigastrium. The i)upils showed no enlargement. He gradually failed, and died at 10 A. M., November 19, 1869. DCCXXI.—Report of a Gase of Traumatic TetamCs thouglit to liave been treated sncce^fuUy with Calabar Bean. By David Hershey, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Charles Holker, colored, aged 20 years, by occupation a deck-hand, was admitted to the Freed- menVHospital, New Orleans, Louisiana, on May 24,1808, having about a week previous to his Admis- sion thrust a sliver of wood into the sole of his foot. It was immediately removed and the wound healed readily, no unpleasant symptoms occurring until the 24th. When admitted, spasms were occurring every twenty minutes; the jaws were firmly locked, and the muscles of the neck, chest, and abdomen were very rigid, Avith considerable opisthotonos. His bowels had not moved for five days. A terebinthinate enema was given with the desired result. Opium was administered in grain doses every two hours. He passed a restless night, the spasms recurring with but very slight intermission ; and on the 25th the pulse was 120. Tincture of Calabar bean was given in the dose of five drops every half hour, which was finally increased to twenty-five drops. Very little change took place until the 30th, when all the symptoms became less severe; beef-tea was given freely. He continued to improve, and on June 5th the pulse was 52, full and regular, and the spasms occurred but twice during the day. Opisthotonos was less marked. On the 16th, having had no spasms for four days, the use of the bean was discontinued. On June 20th he had completely recovered. The quantity of extract of Calabar bean taken during the case was three hundred and forty-two grains. DCCXXII.—Eeport of a Case of Traumatic Tetanus helieaed to have heen treated successf idly hy Large Doses of Opium and the Inhalation of Ether. By W. D. Jamaison, M. D. Acting Assistant Surgeon. Charles Wilson, a private of Co. B, 11th Infantry, aged 21 years, came under notice for medical treatment at Charlottesville, Virginia, on February 25, 1860, having chancres and bubo. The bubo had suppurated and was opened, giving exit to a copious quantity of pus. He was doing well until March 3d, when, coming in violent contact with the end of a board, which struck him over the seat of the bubo, he gave a scream, fell prostrate on the ground, and immediately became convulsed. Upon being seen within twenty minutes from the attack, he vomited the cont<?nts of his stomach, mingled with blood. From this time, 4.30 P. M., till 2 A. M. next morning, the convulsions followed each other in rapid succession, with intervals varying from five to ten minutes. Opisthotonos was marked in its fullest intensity; his speech was voluble but incoherent, changing at times to a loud and boisterous tone. The pulse at no time exceeded 86 ; the pupils were dilated, and did not respond to the action of light, or when an object was suddenly brought near the eye ; the countenance during the paroxysms, was almost purple, the superficial vessels of the face and neck being much distended; the muscles of deglutition were unaffected throughout, and the surface of the body and the extremities were much below the natural temperature. The treatment in this case consisted of sinapisms to the hands, feet, and stomach, followed by drachm doses of laudanum every hour, and the free inhalation of ether on the recurrence of spasms. No abatement of the spasms was preceptible until the next day at 2 P. M., a period of ten hours, during which time two and a half ounces of laudanum and fourteen ounces of ether had been expended. Being unable to make water, warm fomentations were applied over the region of the bladder, and bottles of hot water to the feet andperinseum, which had the desired effect an hour or so afterward, the patient experiencing no further trouble in that respect. He slept well and soundly at night, but evinced no desire to sleep in the day-time. On the fourth day the patient was wallcing about, taking no medicine except tincture of iron, and expressed himself feeling "very well."