EEPORT OF SURGICAL CASES m THE ARMY, 18 of the symphysis of the lower jaw, autl laid open the lip from its upper border nearly to the lower margin of the chin, causing extensive laceration. A small external wound to tlie right of the symphysis was probably made by the exit of a fragment of the ball. The body of the lower max- illa, to the distance of about three-quarters of an inch on each side of the symphysis, with the front teeth, was comminuted and carried away. Two large fragments of bone were driven quite deeply under the tongue, and wedged in between the opposite sides of the jaw. The iiatient was admitted to the post hospital. Haemorrhage, which had been quite profuse, had nearly ceased. About forty fragments of bone, and a portion of the ball lodged behind the fractured end of the jaw, on the right side, were removed. The two pieces driven under the tongue were allowed to remain. The wound was closed by two harelip sutures, and the jaw supported underneath by pasteboard splint and bandage. Pieces of lint, moistened with a solution of chlorinated soda, were kept in the wound. The wound of the lip closed in nearly its whole extent by first intention, and the harelip sutures were in a few daj^s removed. The cavity of the wound, under the tongue, filled with gran- ulations. The fragments of bone under the tongue united with each other and with the jaw on each side, bridging it across, and giving it its natural firmness, with but little deformity. The man was returned to duty on June 12, 1868. XLII.—Mcmoranchm of a Case of Gunshot Fracture of the Upper Maxilla. By B. C. Fryer, Surgeon, U. S. A. Sergeant Thomas Logan, Co. A, 10th United States Cavalry, aged 23 years, was shot by an officer for mutinous conduct. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Harker, Kansas, Jan- uary 6, 1860, with a i)istol wound of the face. A conoidal ball had entered the left nostril, passed backward, and toward the right, through the vomer, and had lodged, it was believed, under the sterno cleido mastoid muscle, near the mastoid process. Simple dressings were applied, and the patient recovered without a bad symptom. He was returned to duty February 2, 1869. XLIIL—Eeport of a Gunshot Fracture of the Lower Maxilla. By Joseph K. Corson, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Sergeant Alexander Brown, Co. D, 2d United States Cavalry, aged 26 years, was wounded in a fight with Indians on May 4, 1870, by a conoidal bullet, which fractured the inferior maxilla. He was admitted into the United States Army post hospital. Fort Bridger, Wyoming Territory, from Camp Stambaugh, May 10, 1870. On May 23d the fractured bones, consisting of the inferior maxilla, from the ramus on the left side to the middle of the jaw on the right side, were removed. In September, 1870, he was still under treatment. He was returned to duty in Novem- ber, 1870. XLIY.—Memorandum of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Loioer Maxilla. By Dallas Bache, Surgeon, U. S. A. Sergeant Washington Coler, Co. C, 9th United States Cavalry (colored troops), aged 21 years, was admitted to the post hospital at San Antonio, Texas, May 2, 1868, with a gunshot wound received May 2, 1868. A i)istol-ball fractured the alveolar process of the inferior maxillary, knocking out two left incisors and a canine tooth. Simple dressings were applied. He was returned to duty on May 25, 1868. XLV.—Minutes of a Case of Gunshot Fracture of ike Lower Jaw. By Wm. M. Notson and Epward Cowles, Assistant Surgeons, U. S. A. Private Franklin Grey, Co. F, 41st United States Colored Infantry, aged 23 years, was acci- dentally wounded near Brownsville on August 26,1867, by a conoidal musket-ball, which entered the mouth, wounding the tongue, fracturing the body of the lower jaw, comminuting the ramus, passing between the internal and external carotid arteries, and emerged one inch below the right