94 EEPORT OF SURGICAL OASES IN THE ARMY. In connection with tlie above report, we may be allowed to call attention to the peculiar method employed in the application of cold for the abatement of local iuiiammation, particularly its appli- cability to the management of wounds. Without presuming to call the attention of the Department to a subject with Avhich all medical men are more or less familiar, we may yet be pardoned for offer- ing a few reflections prompted by this particular mode. A military experience of more than three years has made us familiar with the great need for improved methods of applying cold for the reduction of inflammation, and with that afforded with the use of ice poultices in this case, we can readily recall occasions where such an application wonld have been embraced with delight. Cold water, j^roperly emjiloyed, is the " sine qua non^^ in inflamed wounds. Its interrupted ajjplicatiou, as by cold cloths, frequently changed, is always troublesome where long continued, and more or less partial in its effects, if not judiciously used. It is well known that water dressings may increase local heat by retaining a moist surface in contact with a heated body. Irrigation, when practica- ble, is a decided improvement upon this, well adapted to wounds of the extremities and head, but not so much so to those of the trunk. Besides this, we have all the inconveniences of a special apparatus for applying it. The flow of water from the irrigated surface must also be provided for as well as other things needless to mention. Again : Ice-bags or bladders are too intense in their effects—always painful upon prolonged contact with the part, and dangerous to its vitality ; and when brought in simple proximity to the part, they involve too much inconvenience for permanent and satisfactory use. Jcej^oit/^ieei', properly made, combine all of their advantages with none of their disadvantages, being safe, convenient, and producing a permanent uniform reduction of the temperature. They cause no pain, no chillness, no inconvenience from their weight, and admit of easy application to wounds of the trunk as well as the extremities; do not endanger the integrity of the part, do not require removal oftener than two or three hours ; do not saturate the clothes of the patient with superflous water, and require no special arrangement for their employment. Hence, so far as the local abstraction of tbe heat tends to arrest inflammation, they are, excel- lence, the remedy. To Maisonneuve we ascribe the credit of their suggestion, from whom the fol- lowing directions for their manufacture are taken in substance. We saw a notice of them in one of the periodicals of this year, to which, however, we cannot now refer directly : Take of linseed meal a sufiticieut quantity to form a layer from three-quarters to an inch thick ; spread on a cloth of proper size; upon this, at intervals of an inch or more, place lumi)s of ice of convenient .size— of a marble—then sprinkle them over lightly with the meal, cover with another cloth, folding in the edges to prevent the escape of the mass, and apply the thick side to the surface or wound. Closely enveloped with the meal, the exclusion of air retards the melting of the ice, and the thick layer, intervening between it and the surface prevents painful or injurious contact. The linseed meal is better than bran or similar materials, because its mucilaginous properties render it somewhat tenacious and adhesive. Then there you have a uuiforin abstraction of heat. In the case reported we made special inquiry of the soldier as to the comfort of the application, with a response always favorable; we felt the under surface of the poultice, and found it always cool; we took the temper- ature with the thermometer, which stood at or about 8G degrees ; we continued them seven days without intermission, and firmly believe that the favorable progress of the case was in no small degree attributable to their judicious employment. It is always unsafe to draw inferences for gen- eral application from a few cases, and the blind man's rule, '■'■post hoc, propter hoc,''^ recurs with this thought; and yet we may not ignore the value of individual cases, and may err by pushing our skepticism to a fallacious extreme. We look to our personal experience with this eligible mode of applying cold for interrupting—perhaps controlling—the inflammator3' process, as derived from this case, with i)ecnliar satisfaction, and hopefully await opportunities for its confirmation in other similar ones. Possibly it may occur to some that the non-union in the wound was referable to the application. When we discovered the want of reparative force, we thought of this, but happily the wound upon the chest, to which they had not been applied, set aside the objection, for it also failed to unite, thus clearly indicating where the defect existed, namely, in the general system. The habitual use of alcohol had produced ii pathogenetic state of the system ; hence the delirium tremens, and the want of reparative power in the wounds.