EEPORT OF SUEGICAL CASES IK THE AEMY. 22 allowed an accumulation of gases to take iilace within tlie intestines to sucli an extent as greatly to augment the already existing difficulty of respiration. It was found expedient to introduce an elastic tube, from time to time, through which the gases found vent, when pressure was made, externally, on the abdomen. The paralysis became more profound from day to day; the respiration more difficult, inducing a slow asphyxia, delirium followed by coma; and, finally) death on November 28, 1869, about eight days after the receipt of this injury. The autopsy disclosed the following conditions:—Fracture of the spinous process of the last cervical vertebra; the process had been comminuted, the fragments driven before the ball and lodged in the surrounding soft parts. Secondly, fracture of the lamince of the first dorsal vertebra, at the point where they join to form the spinous process. This fracture opened the medullary canal, and ruptured the sheath of the cord. Several small fragments of bone were found embedded in the substance of the cord, which was found softened and bathed in pus. Thirdly, fracture of the first rib, and the coracoid jirocess of the scapula. The ball was found in the axilla. The lungs were deeply congested, the mucous coat of the bronchi also; and the bronchi themselves filled with a tenacious mucus. In the apex of the right lung was found a cavity filled with pus, and containing a fragment of bone about the size of a pea, probably a piece from the first rib. Death, if not caused by the inter- ference with the respiratory act, and the consequent slow asphyxia, was doubtless hastened by it. LIV.—Extract from a Ueport of a Oimshot Wound involving the Carotid Artery and Sj/ine. By W. E. Blackwood, Acting Assistant Surgeon. In December, 1867, at Eome, Georgia, Private John Bowen, Co. G, 33d United States Infantry, was killed by a musket-ball, from a Springfield breech-loading musket, on the morniug of the 26th. He was lying down at the time, asleep, having been unwell at the morning sick-call. The piece, which was not known to be loaded, was discharged while in the act of being covered with its flannel case. It was in the hands of George Wood, of Co. H. The ball, after first passing through the left fore-arm, entered the neck, a little to the left of the median line, at the sterno clavicular articulation, severed the carotid artery, and emerged at the fourth cervical vertebra, fracturing it, and lacerating the spinal cord. Death was instantaneous, the men who were standing around his bunk not being aware that he was struck. One man was sitting beside him on the bed, but believed the ball to have passed beneath the wood-work of it. The accident was not discovered until dinner-time, three hours after its occurrence. Iso post-mortem examination, further than a digital examination, was made. LV.—Memorandum of a Fatal Case of Gunshot Wound of the N'ecTc. By W. F. Smith, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private George Eobinson, Co. D, 40th United States Infantry, was shot on August 26, 1868, by the officer of the guard, for mutinous conduct at the United States Army post, Goldsborough, North Carolina, by a Colt's Navy revolver, in the neck, severing the carotid artery. Death from hicmorrhage resulted almost immediately, September 13, 1868. LVI.—Note of a Case of Gunshot Fracture of the Spine. By Ira Feery, Assistant Surgeon, 9th United States Colored Troops. Private Gustavus Chase, Co. I, 9th United States Colored Troops, aged 24 years, was shot while walking from Brownsville, Texas, to camp, January 28, 1866. The missile, a conoidal bullet from a Colt's Navy revolver, shattered the spinous pi'ocesses of the sixth and seventh verte- br£E, laid open the canal between the sixth and seventh spinous processes, and lacerated the cord. He was admitted to the post hospital, where fragments of bone were extracted, and simple cold- water dressing a[)plied. There was complete paralysis below the seveuth dorsal vertebra, and great pain in the epigastric region. On February 1st the bowels and bladder were completely torpid, the skin hot, the pulse at 140. Death occurred February 4, 1866.