EEPORT OF SUKGICAL CASES li^ THE ARMY. 262 Removal of Tumors.—Several instances of the removal of important tumors, malig- nant or non-malignant were reported : DCCVir.—Memomnilum of a Case of Scirrlms. By Ja.mes P. Kimball, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private William Wallace, Co. B, 31st lufnntry, aged 19 years, was admitted, on Febrnary 4, 18G8, to the post hospital at Fort Buford, Dakota Territory, with a scirrhus iu the skin and subcutaneous cellular tissue immediately above the centre of the forehead. The patient was slightly cachectic, nervous, and debilitated from pain and want of sleep. On February 5tli, I made a crucial incision one and one-fourth inches iu length, through the skin over the centre of the tumor, retiected back the flaps and dissected oivt the tumor, which was of the size of a hickory nut. No anaesthetic was nsfd. The outer portion of each incision xmited by first intention, the centre filling uii by granulation. The patient was returned to duty IVlarch 5,1SG8. A large scar remained unavoidably, in consequence of the skin over the centre of the tumor having been involved in the disease. DOOVIII.—Kotc of a Case of Extirpation of a Fatty Tumor. By A. C. Girard, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Pri\'ate Nicholas Daly, Co. I, 20th Infantry, was admitted to the hospital at Baton Rouge, February 22, 1SG9, with a lipoma over the left zygomatic arch. Tlie tumor was removed thiough an incision, running obliquely from the corner of the eye to the ear. Erysipelas of the face and neck supervened, but yielded to treatment. The wound of incision healed by granulation, and on March 9, 1SG9, the patient was returned to duty. DCCIX.—ISiote of a Fibrous Tumor of the Bad-. By Edward Cowles, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Isaac Spencer, Co. H, llTth Colored Troops, aged 50 years, was admited to the post hospital at Brownsville, Texas, April 13, 18G7, with a tumor, four or five inches in diameter, on the left shoulder, over the spine of the scapula. On May 21th, ether being administered, an incision, five inches, was made, and the tumor was removed. It did not present the appearance of a malignant growth, but was closely adherent to the adjacent parts. Haemorrhage was copious. The incision was closed by sutures and healed rapidly. The patient had recovered, and was reported for duty on June 21, 18G7. DCCX.—Memorandum relative to a Morbid Growth on the Lip requiring Surgical Interference. By Basil Norris, Surgeon, U. S. A. A canci'oid tumor on the bp of General H was removed very satisfactorily to him and myself, by seizing it with a pair of forceps, and enucleating the mass with a thin, sharp thumb lancet, which i)assed around and beneath it as cleanly as a razor. By this means, in the language of Professor Gross, " the operation is best done," when the skin is not involved. The nest left by the tumor was covered over with a piece of wet tissue paper, which was moistened by the tongue of the patient, as often as was necessary to keep it in place. With this dressing only, the wound nearly filled with plastic lymph in twenty-four hours, and was well in a week. I inclose extracts of a letter as a part of the report: ***** November 21,1870. , " My dear Doctor : In reply to your note of the 17th, I have the i)leasure to report that my lip is doing very well—seems perfectly healthful—although, of course, the circulation has been interrupted by the cuts it has had, and occasionally it looks a little blue and feels benumbed. You performed the operation on the 30th of March, 1870. My trouble commenced as early as the spriug of 1805, when I first noticed the skin of the lip broken as from a blister. Two such spots appeared, producing no other inconvenience than soreness to the touch and extreme sensitiveness to salt, &c. As they did not heal, I got a physician to touch one with caustic, but without good effect. I