EEPOET OP SUEGTCAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 8 mortem examination revealed an extensive fracture of the skull, a transverse section of tlie entire upper portion of it h aving been removed. Two openings presented on left side of head. The anterior situated near the coronal suture, some two inches from its junction with the sagittal; the ball evidently entering the brain at this point, and emerging some three and a half inches posteriorly. Various spiculse of bone were found imbedded within the brain, which was broken down and decomposed. Two wounds also on right side of head, one two inches above the ear, the other one inch directly above the former. This man was found dead by the roadside leading to the Govern- ment saw-mill near Hog Eye, Texas, October 15,18C9, and was supposed to have been murdered. IX.—Eeport of a Case of Gunsltot Fracivrc of ilie SlculJ. U. S. A. By A. A. Yeomans, Assistant Surgeon, Private Prank P. Co. I, 24:th United States Infantry, while attempting to escape from the guard-house at the post of Vicksburg, Mississippi, July 20,1868, was tired upon by the sentinel, at a distance of three hundred and fifteen yards, the missile entering the skull near the posterior border of the left parietal bone, about three-fourths of an inch from the lambdoid suture and midway between the sagittal and masto-parietal sutures ; passing forward through the frontal bone about two inches above the left orbit. About two ounces of braiu came out of the wound on the anterior aspect of the head, and he bled profusely, sinking rapidly, and dying about two hours after the reception of the injury. After death the skull was found to be fractured in nearly every direc- tion li'om the wounds of entrance and exit, a large num- ber of the bones being involved in the injury, and the left hemisphere of the brain was completely demolished. The calvaria was forwarded to the Army Medical Museum, and is represented by the adjacent wood-cut, (Pig. I.). It is remarkable as presenting an example I'lc. 1. Porl'oration of the Sknll by a coiuiidal luuskot ball. Spec. 5473, Sect. 1, A. M. il. of fracture of the eight cranial bones bv a single missile. X.—Report of a lunetrativg Gunsliot Wovnd of the SlvlJ. By C. T. Alexander, Surgeon, U. S. A. On January 9, 1870, Private John Welsh, Co. L, 3d United States Cavalry, was wounded in a drunken row, by a pistol-shot from the hands of some person unknown, at the Placer mines, twenty miles south of Santa Pe, and was received into the hospital at eight on the following morning. The ball entered about one and a half inches behind the right ear, passing inward and forward; death ensiling January 14th, at 7 p. m. Post mortem January loth disclosed that the ball passed in about two inches, lodging at the base of the brain, but not touching it; the man pi'obably died of the shock, as the brain was only very slightly softened, where it rested over the ball, separated by its membrane. He was conscious at the time he entered the hospital, and easily aroused until a short time before death. XI.—Report of a Gunshot Fracture of U. S. A. the SladL By Henry Ltppincott, Assistant Surgeon, " In Kansas, in October, 1SC8, Private William Johnston, Co. E, 7th United States Cavalry, while hunting buffalo, on the 2d instant, with a party sent out from this command for that purpose, was shot and killed by Indians; he received two wounds, one entering the head, about the middle of the left parietal bone, ajid emerging about the middle of the parietal l)one of the right side. The skull was extensively fractured, in all probability by a blow dealt by the Indians after the head was pierced by the ball. He was scalped. He was also shot in the right leg, the ball entering about four and a half inches below the knee-joint, on the anterior surface of the leg, passing upward, lodged in the head of the tibia ; the bone was much fractured. I am unable to state how long Ik^