222 KEPORT OF SUliGlCAL OASES IN THE ARMY. last phalaux, being fouud diseased, was removed througli an incision one inch in length. The patient recovered, and was returned to duty on February 10, 18G9. DOXXI.—Note Relative to an Excision of a Metacarpal Bone. By H. F. Livingston, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Thomas Barrett, Oo. I, 22d Infantry, was admitted to hospital at camp near Orow Creek Agency, Dakota Territory, on September 22, 1870. Lacerated wound of fore-finger of right hand. Excision of metacarpal bone. Simple dressings were apiilied. He recovered and was returned to duty November 12, 1870. DOXXII.—Minute of a Case in wliicli a Portion of the Metacarpal Bone teas excised. By S. M. HoRTON, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private George W. Smith, Oo. A, 27th Infantry, aged 18 years, on March 1,18G8, at Fort Philip Kearney, Dakota Territory, had the ring finger of the left hand, between the first and second joints, sawed off by a cii'cular saw. The distal end of the metacarpal bone of the same finger was also injured, and there was considerable laceration. Assistant Surgeon S. M. Ilortou excised the distal half of the metacarpal bone of the ring finger of the left hand. No antesthetic was used; cold- water and laudanum dressings were applied, and the parts united by granulation in ten days. The man was discharged from service May 3, 18G8, on account of expiration of term of service, but he remained in hospital. March 31st: The hand is nearly healed. DCXXIII.—Bemarls on an •Excision of a Fiwjcr-Joint. By Donald Jackson, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Frank Oastle, Co. C, 41st Infantry, aged 21 years, while in a brawl with other enlisted men in quarters at Fort Clark, Texas, on the night of September 8, 18G8, was wounded by a small pistol ball, which entered the volar aspect of the left index finger, and, passing tlirough the inner side, slightly injured the first phalanx near its i^halangeal articulation. Upon being admitted to the hospital, simple dressings were applied until it became evident that the articular extremities were diseased, when, on October 5th, equal parts of ether and chloroform were administered, and the joint was excised after making an incision on the inner side of the finger. The wound being well cleansed, Avas brought together by a narrow bandage. On the 8th the bandage was removed, and simi^le dressings were applied. By the 28th the wound had entirely healed, leaving the finger shortened one-half inch, and with a false joint, in which there was ample motion. On November 3, 1868, the patient was returned to duty. Excision of the Bones of the Fore-arm.—Only one case of this nature was reported. DCXXIV.—Abstract of a Case of Excision of the Radius. From the Report of F. Reynolds, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Charles Arnold, artificer of Battery 0, 2d Artillerj^, aged 30 years, and of excellent constitution and usually temperate habits, was wounded at Fort Stevens, Oregon, on November G, 1870, by the accidental discharge of his musket, the tompion and a conoidal ball having jiassed through the upper third of the left fore-arm, producing a comminuted fracture of the radius, severing probably the radial and interosseous arteries, and causing extensive laceration and loss of tissue. A large vessel was also supposed to have been displaced. On admission to the hospital, there was no i^ulse at the wrist, but the temperature was normal. At first, it was determined to remove the limb; but the temperature of the hand having undergone no perceptible change, and hoping that the collateral vessels would prove sufficient for its support, the idea was abandoned. Accordingly, on the same