AMPUTATIONS OF THE AEM. 185 swollen, inflamed, and very painful, it was decided to operate. The patient having been rendei'ed insensible with chloroform, Assistant Surgeon Edwin Bentley, U. S. A., amputated the arm in the upper third by the antero-posterior-flap o])eration. There was considerable hfe-morrhage ; eight ligatures were applied. The patient recovered well from the influence of the anfesthetic. Tlie stump was dressed with a single layer of lint saturated with glycerine and carbolic acid. The wound progressed favorably. On December 31, 1870, the patient remained in hospital, the stump not being yet in a condition to adapt an artificial limb. At this date, there was an occa- sional discharge of pus, with limited necrosis, which, however, had never been serious, and was improving. DXXXV.—Report of an Amputation of the Arm for Gunshot Injury. By 0. Caughill, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. James Parker, Co. G, 28th Infantry, aged 32 years, w^as wounded October 10, 1868, at Camden, Arkansas, while in the act of escaping from the guard, by a conoidal ball, which entered the right fore-arm one and a half inches below the elbow-joint, on the anterior surface, comminuted the radius and ulna, ruptured the ulnar, radial, and interosseous arteries, and emerged in a slightly oblique direction upon the opposite side. At 8 o'clock P. M., on the same day, fifteen minutes after the receipt of the wound, he was admitted into the post hospital, having lost a large quantity of blood previous to admission. The w^ound was very large and jagged, and the muscles very mucli lacerated. The large number of loose fragments of bone which were removed, necessarily left the fractured ends very widely separated. Stiuuilants were given freely until reaction was established, and an opiate was given to quiet pain and produce sleep. The next morning, at six o'clock, the Ijarts being immensely swollen, chloroform was administered, and the arm amputated just above the elbow by the circular method. Stimulants, in combination witli strong beef tea, were given every hour. The patient died fifteen hours after the operation—.evidently from the effect of the loss of blood sustained previous to his admission to the hospital. The ulna and radius were examined after death. Two inches or more from each bone was found missing, and the shafts of both were split. DXXXYl.—Bemarlcs on an Amputation of the Arm for Gunshot Injury. By F. Meacham, Assist- ant Surgeon, U. S. A. Hospital Steward Lucius O'Brien, United States Army, aged 23 years, was admitted to hospital at Camp Douglas, Utah Territory, on July 5, 18G8, having been accidentally shot through the left arm just above the bend of the elbow. The artery was severed an inch and a half above the bifur- cation, the lower end of the humerus was extensively comminuted, and the soft parts, about two inches iii diameter, on the back of the arm, were completely carried away. The patient had lost considerable blood. Amputation having been decided on, the patient was chloroformed, and the circular operation was done at the lower third about two hours after the accident. The patient was then placed in bed, being allowed tea and a farinaceous diet. Simple cold-water dressings were applied. On the 6th he was doing well, the same treatment being continued. On the 8tli there was considerable fever, with scanty urine ; the wound looked well, and suppuration was established. The sutures were removed; beef tea was administered as an additional article of diet, and fifteen- grain doses of acetate of potash were administered every four hours, with an anodyne at night. The symptoms of febrile disturbance having disappeared on the following day, the i)otasii was discontinued, and two-grain doses of quinine atul iron were substitnted. Two of the ligatures were removed on August 1st; the tonic was discontinued, and full diet allowed. On August 24:th the last ligature was removed. One day later he was returned to duty, the stump having entirely healed.* DXXXYII.—Remarlis on an Amputation of the Arm for an Injury. By W. H. Longwill, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Dionicio Raniires, Troop F, 1st New Mexico Cavalry, was admitted to hospital at Fort Wiugate, New Mexico, on May 18, 1866, with asthma, and at the same time suffering from an * lu January, 1869, O'Brien was shot through the heart. See Eeport CVIII, p. 36. 24