GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITIES. 67 COXXXIII.—Wote of a Gunshot Fracture of the Metacarpus. By Charles C. Fuelet, M. D., Act- ing Assistant Surgeon. Private Christopher C. Minnigan, Co. E, 41st Infantry, aged 27 years, accidentally received a gunshot wound of the left hand, by an Enfield rifle ball. He was admitted from his regiment on June 30, 1867, to the post hospital at Brownsville, Texas. At the time of the admission he had nearly recovered. Simple dressings were used. He was returned to duty in July, 18G7. CCXXXIV.—Report of a Gunshot Wound of the Eand. A. L, Flint, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private John Murphy, Co. C, 5th Cavalry, aged 24 years, was wounded October 15, 1868, in a street brawl, by a conoidal ball, which injured the bones of the left hand. He was admitted to Camp Emory, Atlanta, Georgia, on the 16th. Simple dressings were applied. He was returned to duty on the 27th. CCXXXV.—Report of a Gunshot Wound of the Hand. By J. F. Boughton, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Brice Perkins, Co. D, 22d Infantry, aged 20, was wounded at Fort Dakota, Dakota Territory, on April 5, 1868, by a pistol ball, which entered the outer border of the palmar surface of the index finger of the left hand, and, traversing around more than half the circumference of the second phalanx, made its exit at the inner border of the dorsal surface, near the second joint. Very little hsemorrhage occurred. He was admitted to the post hosi)ital at Fort Dakota, when water-dressings were apj)lied. He was returned to duty on April 30, 1868. CCXXXV I.—Eejjori of a Gunshot Woxmd of the Hand. By E. C. Fox, M. D., United States Colored Troops. Private Breboy Eeed, Co. G, 128th United States Colored Troops, aged 22 years, was wounded in a mutiny on Folly's Island, South Carolina, July 19, 1866, by a pistol ball, which entered the dorsal aspect of the left hand near the metacarpal bone of the index finger. He was at once admitted to the post hospital, where, on July 31st, the ball was extracted from near the ulnar artery. He was retui^ned to duty October 12, 1866. CCXXXVII.—Memorandum of a Case of Gunshot Fracture of the Metacarpal Bone. By G. H. GuNN, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Felix Ross, Co. H, 9th Cavalry, aged 25 years, was wounded November 16, 1870, by a conoidal ball, which fractured the metacari)al bone of the second finger. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Quitman, Texas, on the 18th. Simple dressings were applied. He was returned to duty in February, 1871. CCXXXVIII.—Eepori of a Gunshot Woxmd of the Hand. By C. S. DeGraw, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private George Overton, Co. K, 10th Cavalry, was accidentally wounded January 19, 1869, by a conoidal ball, which fractured the second metacarpal bone of the right hand. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Dodge, Kansas, on May 18, 1860. Simi)le dressings were applied. Several small pieces of bone were discharged from the upijer wound. He recovered, and was returned to duty in June, 1869.