124 EEPOET OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. labored. When reaction had taken place, some four or five boiirs after bis admission to hospital, the broken ribs were adjusted by applying strips of adhesive plaster and a broad bandage about the chest and abdomen. His pulse at this time had risen to 110, and breathing easier. A small quantity of serum and blood continued to ooze from his ears, and once he vomited four or five ounces of coagulated blood. He complained querulously of the pain in his side. Morphine was cautiously administered during the night, but oidy partially succeeded in quieting his pain and fretfulness. On the next day he seemed easier, and was fully conscious most of the tinie; pulse 116, i)ui)ils still dilated. There were physical signs of engorgement of the lower lobe of the right lung, and of presence of fluid in the i>leural cavity, as also of air in the areolar tissue about the chest and neck. During the day the patient passed blood in small quiintities with his urine, and vomited blood twice; in tlie evening the pidse was 130, and feeble; patient unconscious and breathing labored. At 11 o'clock P. M. the pulse was 150 and fluttering. Death resulted at 1.30 o'clock A.M., on January 12th, about thirty-five hours after the reception of the injury. An autopsy was made fifteen hours after death. On removing the scalp, a fracture which had not been previously noticed was detected, through the squamous i)ortion of the temporal bone without displacement. The dura mater at the base of the brain was ccmsiderably lacerated, the openings extending into the ventricles. An extensive fracture was discovered running oblicpiely across the base of the cranium ; starting at the outer edge of left orbit, it passed through the greater wing of the sphe- noid and squamous portions of the temporal bone of the left side, and then obliquely through the body and botli lesser wings of the sphenoid, and througli the whole length of tlie petrous portion of the temporal bone of the right side. The fracture was considerably comminuted, and six or eight fragments of bone about the left orbit were easily detached with the fingers. The heart was normal; the left lung uninjured and healthy; the lower lobe of the right lung presented a lacerated wound about two inches long, evidently produced by the ragged extremity of one of the broken ribs which had penetrated the pleural cavity; there was about eight ounces of blood in the right pleural cavity, and a lacerated opening existed in the diaphragm. An examination of the abdo- men showed the cavity filled with blood, the intestines being bathed in it. Six or eight ounces were removed from the pelvis. The right lobe of the liver was congested and much lacerated; the right kidney presented a slight bruise and a laceration an inch long. The right supra-renal vein was torn across, and the right renal vein wounded but jiot completely divided. No other abdomi- nal vessels presented lesions. The ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs were fractured about three inches from the vertebrae. CCCCI.—Bemarls on a Case of Fracture of the Slcull tvith Concussion of the Brain. By C. S. De Gkaw, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Shields, Co. H., 3d Infantry, presented a case of fracture of the zygomatic i^ro- cess of the temporal bone and of the nasal bones, com])licated with concussion of the brain, of an aggravated character. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Dodge, on November 17, 1808, where it was ascertained that he had been knocked down by another soldier, and severely kicked and trampled upon about the head and face. When brought to the hospital there was comi)lete prostration of all nervous and physical powers. The means taken to bring on reaction, though pursued for an hour or more, seemed of little or no avail. The man remained in the same condition for eight or ten hours, and shortly after midnight, when aroused and spoken to, he answered, but immediately relapsed into his foi mer condition. On the morning of the 18th he seemed somewhat relieved; was more easily aroused, and, when sharply spoken to, would give unintelligible or irrelevant replies. His face was greatly distorted by swelling, his eyes completely closed, and there were several cuts upon his forehead and face. Examination discovered the fractures mentioned above. During the day violent inflammatory symptoms, pointing to brain trouble, set in. He became exceedingly restless, tossing himself about so violently that it became necessary to hold him down in bed; cold ap]jIicatious were made to his head, sinapism applied to the back of the neck, and blisters behind each ear. This condition lasted about five days, when he gradually became calmer, but his mental faculties were much impaired. He improved gradually during December and January, and in March, 1809, he was returned to duty.