CONCLUDING OBSEEVATIONS. 285 of successful excision of a large portion of extruded omentum (p. 250) ; but the numerical returns indicate that there were some important operations for hernia and for imperforate rectum ; but no details were reported. The rarity of strangulated hernia in the Army bears creditable testimony to the fidelity with which the physical examination of recruits has been conducted. The reports of operations on the genito urinary organs commence with accounts of fourteen cases of phymosis. These show that many of the medical officers are of M. Ricord's opinion regarding the inutility of the prepuce, and prefer circumcision to the dorsal incision. After notes" of two cases in which it was deemed expedient to amputate the penis on account of the syphilitic complications of the unhappy patients, are four reports on the surgical treatment of stricture. Four cases were treated by urethrotomy, with a single fatal result. Reports of successful removal of a foreign body of the urethra, and of suprapubic puncture of the bladder for retention, are followed by nine operations for lithotomy reported (pp. 256, 261), which presented some very interesting features. The pleasantest was that all resulted successfully. Four were performed by the usual lateral method for the removal of uric acid or phosphatic calculi of large size. Five were for the extraction of vesical concretions having foreign bodies as nuclei, the foreign bodies being a fragment of the pubic bone, a cast-iron ball, two leaden musket-balls, and an iron arrow-head. The latter instance is perhaps unique, and all constitute valuable additions to the remarkable series in the museum,'^ of vesical concretions found around foreign bodies. Median lithomony seems not to have been practiced as yet in the army. The eleven reports on tumors comprise notes of one lipoma, one sebaceous and two fibroid tumors, one hygroma, one epithelioma, two examples of scirrhus, and three of encephaloma. There were eight recoveries from the operations, with the prospect of recurrence in several cases. The reports of Surgeon B. Norris of the treatment of a case of undoubted medullary cancer by the drug called cundurango, forwarded by the minister resident at Ecuador, does not encourage a belief in any specific therapeutic property in this new agent.f The six reports on tetanus refer to two fatal cases and four examples of recovery under the use of the Calabar bean, ether-inhalation with opium, and hydrate of chloral. It must be reluctantly admitted that the evidence regarding the curative efficacy of these drugs, and also to the accuracy of the diagnoses, is altogeter insufficient. Dr. Smart's » * Specimens 88, 1687, 2567, 4712, and 5,019, Section I, A. M. M., are vesical concretions, induced by gunshot injuries of the bladder. Besides casts and henip-seed calculi, and other small secretions passed through the urethra, the Aimy Medical Museum possesses one hundred and ninety-five vesical calculi removed by lithotomy. As the erroneous impres- sion that the museum only receives donations from medical officers, and only such as pertain to military medicine and surgery, are not entirely dispelled, it may bo well to reiterate that valuable pathological preparations, from whatever source, are welcomed, the preparations carefully mounted and preserved, the histories duly registered and catalogued, the names of the donors being always recorded. t The correspondence of the minister, Mr. E. Eumsay Wing, with the State Department, relative to this drug, is printed in the National Medical Journal, May, 1871, p. 23, aud also i» pauiphlet form. Mr. Wing furuishes recommenda- tions of the drug by Drs. Casaras aud Eguiguren, and it is noticeable that the latter speaks of this agent as one " which I alone ^lossessed in Quito." Mr. Wing writes to Mr. Fish that cirndurango cures not only cancer, but syphilis, and he iudges from analogy that it will also cure " scrofula and nlcerous affections of different types." There are now on file at the State Department three reports on the use of this agent in soft cancer, and other evidence will soon be forthcoming. If the verdict is that anticipated by pathologists whose powers of analogical reasoning do not permit them to discern the pathological afSnities of cancer, syphilis, scrofula, and indolent ulcers, every one who has aided in augmenting the misery of incurables in the interest of commercial speculation will occupy an unenviable position.