GUifSHOT WOUNDS OF THE CHEST, 31 communication left behind, and addressed to the commanding officer, and also by the position of the gun, lying on the floor, with a string attached to the trigger, suggesting the intention of inflicting the wound. The patient died at half past eight o'clock in the evening. No pont-mortem examination was made in the case, as it was considered unnecessary. LXXXVII.—Bemarlis on a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Chest. By J. C. Watkins, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Sergeant John Kelly, Co. A, 8th United States Cavalry, aged 29 years, was admitted on April 30, 1868, to the hospital at Camp Winfield Scott, Nevada, with a gunshot wound of the chest. The bullet entered the left lung, just below the first rib, injuring it, and deflected a little downward, lodged under the skin in the dorsal region. The left arm was paralyzed, and pulsa- tion in the radial artery had ceased; but the latter gradually returned, and was nearly normal again on May 4th. A flesh-wound in the outer part of the right thigh was suppurating, but presented a healthy appearance. On June 1st, the patient had repeated cold and hot sweats, with paroxysms of neuralgic pains in the left arm, but he improved again until June 8th, when a commencing aneurism of the left subclavian, or a branch of the superior thoracic artery was observed. The wound in the back commenced to bleed. On June 12th, the patient was doing well, and the wound was healing rajjidly. On June 21st, the aneurism, which now appeared to be a false one, was increasing. Slight pressure was applied, with iodide of potash ointment. On June 26th, the aneurismal tumor was still increasing. Opium was given in large doses, and chloroform also was administered. A care- ful examination of the tumor was made, but the patient was considered too weak for an operation. On July 30th, the condition of the patient was unchanged ; the tumor had displaced the clavicle. On July 16th, the patient had not been allowed an operation from the bowels for more than two weeks, attempting Valsalva's method of cure. The patient appears to gain a little strengtli. July 23d, severe pains in arm and shoulder; the tumor is increasing in size, and appears to be pointing at the old wound. Aiigust 13th, during a severe neuralgic attack, the aneurism bursted, and profuse bleeding ensued. Bleeding recurred at intervals, until August 27th, when it ceased. The patient improved until September 17th, when he became slightly delirious. Bleeding occurred again, but the hfemorrhage was checked by plugging the opening with dry lint. Hjemorrhages recurred September 18th, 19th, and 28th, and death occurred at 5 P. M., September 28, 1868. At the autopsy, the left lung was found partially collapsed; one-half ounce of fluid in the pleural sac ; the heart, right auricle, and ventricle walls were considerably thickened; the valves, liver, and kidney were normal; the spleen slaty. The bellies of the pectoralis major and minor were infiltrated with blood, and entirely disorganized. The axilla was so much disorganized that it was impossible to discover which had been the bleeding arterj^ The ball had not penetrated the lung, but had passed above and back of the lileura. At the elbow, the olecranon and the internal condyle of the humerus were necrosed. The wound of the right thigh had entirely healed. LXXXVIII.—Minute of a Case of Perforating Gunshot Wound of the Thorax. By C. Macfarline, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. At Fort Ontario, New York, June 17, 1869, Private Joseph Marks, Co. A, 1st United States Artillery, was shot by a soldier of the same comjiany. The ball, a conical one, entered the right side at a level of the third rib, an inch and a lialf from the median line, and made exit through the spine of the scapula, near its central portion. Sulphate of morphia, in one-fourth grain doses, was given at intervals of one-half hour until sleei) ensued ; also extract of ergot with digitalis and tannic acid was given in a mixture, and lemonade was allowed. At indications of sinking, whiskey dihited with water and beef-essence were given frequently. He died fifteen hours after reception of the injury, from internal htemorrhage.