92 EEPORT OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. line, on a level with a line drawn transversely two inches above the umbilicus. The wound was one inch in lengtli, its long axis being nearly parallel to the long axis of the body. On inserting the fluger into the Mound, it was found that the wall of the abdomen was entirely penetrated, beyond which the finger passed without resistance, obliquely through another layer of tissue, into a cavity which was believed to be the left end of the stomach. He complained mainly of pain in the left shoulder, and vomited freely of recently ingested food unmixed with blood, and was some- what agitated. The wound bled but slightly, and was at once closed by two silver sutures and adhesive plaster, the patient having jireviously been turned on his abdomen, without any dis- charge of blood, beyond a few drops, taking place. He was placed in bed, and ordered to have no food or drink. During the night he vomited twice, throwing up in all a pint of dark semi- coagulated blood. His pulse was 84, and small, though he appeared unwilling to take a full insjuration. He complained of a "cramp-like" pain in the fore part of the left shoulder, and also of some pain at the epigastrium, especially about the ensiform cartilage. There was some tumefaction at the seat and in the vicinity of the wound, and a crackling sensation, as well as gurgling, was perceived on palpitation. An incised wound of the stomach, with infiltration of gas or air into the areolar tissue about the wound, was diagnosed. He was allowed to rinse his mouth with water under the supervision of the nurse, and to assume such position in bed as he preferred. On the afternoon of the next day he was quiet and uncomplaining, but the pulse was 120 and wiry, and the face rather pallid. He had not vomited since daylight, but felt nausea all the time, and thought he would feel better could he vomit. He spat up freelj', without vomiting, a mucilaginous coffee-colored fluid, evidently altered blood. The abdomen was somewhat tymi>anitic, and the bowels had not moved. A cathartic enema was given, which operated slightly in the evening. On January 4, the patient lay quietly in bed on his back; bis countenance was pale, but not indicative of distress; pulse 112, small, wiry, and feeble; respiration normal, and tongue clean. The whole abdomen was somewhat distended and resonant, and he complained of slight pain at the epigastrium. The emphysema in the vicinity of the wound had not increased, and the gurgling was no longer perceptible. During the night he vomited three times, throwing up in all about one quart of blood, much of which was coagulated and thrown up in mass. The vomiting gave him much relief. An injection of beef essence was given every three hours, and flannel wet with the spirits of turpentine applied to the whole abdomen. In the evening he again A^omited a full pint of dark semi-coagulated blood. An anodyne injection w^as administered, and he rested quietly during the night. He continued to spit up freely, and at times to vomit the same mucilaginous dark-looking fluid, which was evidently blood altered by admixture with the fluids of the stomach. The injection of beef essence was continued until January 7th, when beef tea Avas given every alternate hour by the mouth. He ceased to spit up the dark fluid, and did not vomit during the night. On the 11th, he complained of liain at the seat of the wound, and that he could feel a swelling there on sitting up. He was examined in a standing posture, but no bulging or protrusion could be felt, but the abdomen had become generally tympanitic, and his bowels did not move. A cathartic was at once ordered, which moved the bowels during the night, and on the next day the tympanitic distension had disappeared. Somewhat above and outward from the wound there w\as a decided dittused swelling, which was red at one point, and very tender to the touch. He was not allowed to take any food by the mouth, only water by the wiueglassful, with an injection of a teacupful of beef essence. On the morning of the 13th, the swelling had plainly diminished, and was not so tender. In consequence of sickness, I did not see him until the IGth, when I found the tumefaction near the seat of the wound was much greater, being as large as half an ordinary-sized orange, very red, and tender to the touch, and seejued resonant on percussion and quite tense. The swelling continued to increase until the morning of the 17th, when a sudden discliarge of thin offensive pus took place through tlie original wound, amounting in all to about eight ounces, that which flowed last being creamy, aud streaked with blood. Tliere were some shreds of semi-decomposed coagulated blood passed out with the pus first discharged. The swelling at once greatly diminished ; alight broad poultice was ai)plied to the wound without pressure, and Ih^ was ordered to lay on his side. During the evening he expressed himself as feeling greatly relieved. On tlie lOth, his pulse was regular but feeble, and he was quite pale. The swelling bad entirely disai)peared. Tliere was no discbarge from the wound except from the small granulating surlace, which bad assumed by ulceration a triangular