OPERATIONS ON THE BLADDER. 255 were gramilatiug finely. Cliloroform being administered, tlie anterior stricture was divided by urethrotomy, and the posterior by Syme's perineal section. A catheter was introduced, and nourishing diet ordered. All the fistulfe were closed and the patient recovered rapidly. DCXCV.—Account of an Operation for the Relief of Stricture. By E. P. Vollum, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John White, Co. H, 42d Infantry, aged 32 years, was admitted to the hospital at Madison Barracks, Sackett's Harbor, New York, March 25, 1868, with strictures of the urethra. The first stricture extended from the bulb to near the prostate gland, and the second was at a point about three inches from the head of the penis; both were impassable to the smallest bougie. The patient had been twice injured, each injury being followed by bloody urine. On April 10th, ether was administered and the upper stricture divided by the urethrotome. On the following day equal parts of chloroform and ether were administered, and the lower stricture was divided by l)erineal section. The patient, who had been prior to the operation cachetic and debilitated, sank gradually, and died on April 14, 1868, from the effects of the operation. At the autopsy, pus and black ecchymosis w^ere found at the site of the divided strictures. The prostate gland was much enlarged, hardened, and contained two small abscesses. The bladder was thickened to about half an inch, and its mucous lining eroded, excepting some small patches at the base, and for about an inch, around the neck ; the ureters were irregularly dilated in some places to three times the natural size; pelvis was dilated and contaiued a little pus; fat in the pyramids. The kidneys were white, measured five and three-eighths by three and a half inches, and weighed ten ounces. DCXCVI.—Report of a Case in which a Foreign Sultstance was removed from the Urethra hy Urethrot- omy. Bj J. H. Bartholp, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John Kline, Co. C, 11th Infantry, aged 33 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Camp Grant, near Richmond, on October 24,1868. He had for several days previously had consid- erable difficulty in urinating, the stream being small and attended with straining eftbrts to pass it. At 9 A. M., on the 24th, as he could not pass water at all, he undertook to remedy the trouble by passing a broom straw seven or eight inches into the irrethra, and on withdrawing it a i)ortion was broken off and remained. One hour and a half after the occurrence I removed it by cutting down upon it, opening the urethra an eighth of an inch in front of the anterior border of the scrotum, where the external or anterior end of the wisp was situated and could be felt. Making an opening into the urethra of the necessary size, the end of the stem was made to protrude and was withdrawn. Its length was three and a half inches, and its inner end must therefore have been well on toward the bladder. No anaisthetic was used. On the next day, being unable to evacuate his bladder, a No. 1 flexible catheter, without the wire, was inserted, and the urine drawn off'. The condition of the patient varied until December 21st, when he was detailed as hospital attendant. Up to Decem- ber 26th the bladder had been evacuated by the aid of catheters, but the patient being rather ill at that date their use was discontinued. On December 31st, he is reported as being well as regards his genito-urinary organs. The piece of broom removed was forwarded to the Army Medical Museum, and is numbered 5527 of the Surgical Section. DCXCVII.—Report of a Case of Siipra-Puhic Puncture of the Bladder for Retention of Urine produced hy Chronic Enlargement of the Prostate. By A. W. Wiggin, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. . Patrick Quohn, aged 50 years, a policeman in the cadets' barracks at the Military Academy, West Point, New York, had been suffering for several years from chronic enlargement of the prostate gland, with irritable stricture at the neck of the bladder, which required him to void his urine as freqxrently as once in two hours, and occasionally, as a result of a debauch, necessitating the introduction of a catheter. On August 5, 18G9, having been drinking whiskey the evening previous, he a})plied to an irregular practitioner, who endeavored for two or three hours to introduce a very small-sized catheter. I saw him at 3 A. M., August 5th, There had evidently been consider- able hjBmorrhage from the urethra, and, on the gentle passage of a No. 7 catheter, a good deal of soreness and tumefaction were discovered, and blood flowed very readily. After trying with much