254 REPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. inches of the body of penis were removed. The mucous membrane was then stitched at four diiferent points to the edges of the cutaneous portion of the wound. No contraction of the urinary canal followed, and very little blood was lost. The dorsal artery was ligated. The patient's constitutional condition at the time of the operation was fair, a generous diet and tonics having rapidly removed the cachexy present at the date of his admission. The after treatment consisted in the use of a catheter, which was retained four days by ta])e straps, carbolized dressings, tonics, stimulants, and a nourishing diet. The wound healed rapidly, and the patient gained twenty-four pounds while in the hospital. He passed his .urine without difficulty, and, being convalescent, joined his regiment on December 26, 1870. The pathological specimen, with the above particulars, was coiitributed to the Army Medical Museum by the operator, and is No. 5737 of the Surgical Section. Case 2.—Private R. Vogler, Co. B, 27th Infantry, aged 22 years, was admitted to the hospital at Fort Philip Kearny, Dakota Territory, July 15,1807, with a very large warty growth, which discharged an ichorous, fetid pus, and involved the glans penis, the prepuce, and the anterior thiid of the entire body of that organ. On Jnl^' IGth the penis was amputated at the junction of the middle and posterior third, while the patient was under the iutluence of equal parts of ether and chloroform. The mucous membrane of the urethra was tacked by thread to the skin at four points. The stump healed without a bad symptom, and the patient was returned to duty on August 22, 1807. Since then he has complained of partial closure of the external orifice, which was relieved by gradual dilatation, repeated ever}' three hours for one day. DCXCII.—Memorandum relative to an Operation for the lielief of Stricture.—By John H. Bartholf, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Hugh Donohue, Troop F, 5th Cavalry, was admitted to the post hospital at Camp Grant, Richmond, with an impermeable stricture of the urethra, of fourteen months standing, following gouorrhcea. It was situated half an iu(,'h behind the root of the scrotum. The urine came away in a very small stream, and often in drops. The smallest instrument was absolutely impassable. A No. 7 catheter was passed down to the stricture and cut down upon; the incision was then continued into the bladder, and the catheter i)assed directly afterward into the bladder, Avhere it was secured. The patient recovered, and was returned to duty in May, 1808. DCXCIII.—Bejmrf of an Operation for the EcJief of Stricture.—By F. L. Town, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Timothy Quill, Co. 1,13th Infantry, aged 30 years, was admitted to the hosi)ital at Fort Shaw, Montana Territory, May 25,1808, with a stricture of the spongy part of urethra, of long standing. It was situated just anterior to the scrotum, and was apparently not of great thickness ; a No. 2 catheter could with difficulty be passed. On May 25th chloroform was administered, and the stricture was divided by the urethrotome. A full-sized catheter was then inserted, and allowed to remain. The incision healed rapidly, and with apparently very little contraction at the seat of stricture. The patient was returned to duty, but the stricture contracted again, and on March 11, 1869, he was readmitted to the hospital, and the stricture again divided by the urethrotome. The same treatment was observed as above, and on March 31st the patient was able to urinate freely. DCXCIV.—Mcmoranfhm relative to an Operation for the Relief of Stricture.—By Samuel, S. Jessop, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private J, E. Smith, Ordinance Corps, aged 31 years, was admitted to the hospital at Charleston, April 17, 1809, with stricture of the urethra, the result of gonorrhoea, contracted about seven years j)reviously. Stricture occurred in two places, one about two and a half inches behind the external meatus, the other near the bulb. Several flstulte existed ; there had been urinary infiltration, and the scrotum, Avith the skin of the abdomen, had sloughed. The patient was feeble, and sufi'ered much pain from the slightest movement. On Mny 15th the sloughs had separated, and the wounds