19 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE FACE. ear and behind the angle of the jaw. The htemorrhage was alarming. He was admitted into the post hospital at Fort Brown, Texas, on the same day. The jaw was supported by a pasteboard splint; compresses were applied over the carotid arteries. The mouth was cleansed daily with solution of chlorinated soda. Pieces of bone were removed. Liquid nourishment was given at first by enemata. He was transferred to Fort Concho, Texas, on March 20th, and was discharged for disability October 18, 18G9. XhVL—Minute of a Case of Gunshot Fracture of Loiver Maxilla. By H. E. Tilton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Martin O'Brien, Co. C, 7th United States Cavalry, aged 21 years, was shot at Fort Lyon, Colorado Territory, by the first sergeant, on January 9, 1868, for muuitous conduct; a pistol-ball entering left cheeif, carrying away the angle of the lower jaw without causing its com- j)lete fracture, and lodging against the cervical vertebra?. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Lyon, Colorado Territory, on January 10, • 1868. Simple dressings were applied. On January 27, 1868, an abscess opened in the neck, from which a number of small fragments of bone were removed. On February 14, 1868, the ball was removed. The man deserted from the hospital. ILIjWI.—Report of a Gunshot Wound of the Upper Maxilla. By Chakles K. Winne, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Case.—Charles E. M , first lieutenant and quartermaster 16th United States Infantry, aged 26 years, was wounded May 21, 1868, by a pistol-ball, which entered in left occipital triangle, just behind sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle, at junction of two imaginary lines, one horizontal and parallel with chin, the other vertical and bisecting mastoid process of temporal bone; ball passed inward and upward, then changing direction entered mouth through centre palate process of superior maxillary bone, and finally buried itself in alveolar j^rocess of superior maxillary of right side. The internal maxillary artery in its third portion, or one of its large branches, was divided, as htemorrhage was fearfully i^rofuse from both openings of the wound, and the patient sank exhausted before reaching the barracks. The haemorrhage was checked by the application of com- presses; patient exsanguined and suffering from the intense degree of the shock. He vomited sev- eral times, which was followed by the recurrence of htemorrhage. This immediately ceased upon injection of persulphate of iron; manual pressure applied as far as practicable over track of wound, then a bar-tourniquet substituted and very slight pressure used. As it was impracticable to secure the bleeding vessel, it was determined, upon mature deliberation, to ligate the primitive carotid artery should haemorrhage again occur. Sulphate of morphia, with small quantity of stimulants, were administered every two hours, and a diet of beef-tea and chicken-soup through, a tube. May 22d, patient perfectly comfortable in every way. May 27th, the bar-tourniquet was kept in i>osi- tion for several days, though no pressure was exercised, then it was removed. The wound of en- trance is now supiiurating freely, considerable swelling in occipital space. Delirium tremens manifested itself. May 30th. Uunder the free administration of narcotics the attack terminated to- day; during the last twenty-four hours ext. cann. indicce was substituted for the tinct. opii deodor., with the happiest result, though in this case I am inclined to ascribe the effect more to the impression made upon the disease by the opiate primarily, for I pushed it to excess, even, as I considered that a probable hsemorrhage caused by the unconscious and unruly movements of the patient was more dangerous than narcotism. In the majority of instances, I am opposed to such free administration of opium. In addition, the most nourishing food, with weak milk-punch, was given. June 2: patient doing well in every respect. He was returned to duty, July, 1868. XLVIII.—Note of a Case of Gunshot Woiond of the Face. By A. A. Woodhull, Assistant Sur- geon, U. S. A. Private George Bullis, Co. C, 3d United States Infantry, aged 21 years, was wounded on August 11, 1870, by duck-shot, at close range, which shattered parts of the malar bone and supe- rior maxilla, destroyed nearly an inch of the condyle of the inferior maxilla, and chiefly lodged