GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. 27 LXYIII.—Report of a Case of Perforating Gunshot Wound of the Chest. By B. E. Fryer, Surgeon, U. S. A. Case.—Private Daniel McDonald, Co. B, 38tli United States Infantry, aged 23 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Harker, Kansas, April 28, 18G8, with a perforating gunshot wound of the left chest. The ball entered between the second and third ribs, live inches from the sternum, and emerged posteriorly two and a half inches to the left of the spinal column, between the fifth and sixth ribs. Carbolic-acid dressings were applied to the external wound, and the man recovered without any severe constitutional disturbance. The anterior wound closed May 21st, and the posterior, May 29, 1868. He was returned to duty on June 24, 18G8. LXIX—Note of a Case of Penetrating Gunshot Wound of the Chest. By C. S. De Graw, Assistant Surgeon, tJ. S. A, Corporal James Goodwin, Co. B, 7th United States Cavalry, aged 21 years, was wounded by Indians on September 20, 1868, by a. ball which entered to the left of the third dorsal vertebra, passed through the apex of the left lung, and lodged below the first rib. He was admitted into the United States Army post hospital at Fort Dodge, Kansas, on September 3, 1868. Discharged May 15, 1869. LXX,—Extract from Case-Boole at Fort Hays Hospital. By W. F. Buchanan, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Henry Harvey, Co. E, 38th United States Infantry, aged 20 years, was on August 14, 1867, at Fort Hays, Kansas, accidentally shot while being asleep. The ball, from an Enfield rifle, struck the j)osterior surface of the chest over the tenth rib, three inches to the right of the spinal column, fractured the rib, passed into the right pleural cavity, and came out between the sixth and seventh ribs, two inches to the right of the spinal column, fracturing the ribs. The air passed freely out and in, through both wounds, at every inspiration and expiration. On August 18th, the patient had a hacking cough, with a pulse at 112; pus was flowing from both wounds. August 2oth, the cough continued, and there was dullness in percussion over the posterior part of the right chest, with bronchial respiration. On September 31st, the patient was emaciated and weak. Air no longer passed through the upper wound, but continued to pass through the lower, less fre- quently, however, than at first. On October 31st, the patient was much improved. Air no longer passed through either of the wounds; but a j)urulent discharge continued. Several spiculiE of bone were removed. There was a slight dullness on percussion. The patient was regaining strength. On December 22d, the patient was walking about the ward. Purulent discharges from lower wound continued; the upper wound was closed. SpiculiB of bone were removed from week to week during the last two months. February 1, 1868, patient returned to dutj^ The lower wound had been a long time in healing in consequence of exfoliations from the rib. LXXI.—Report of a Case of Rapid Recovery after a Perforating Wound of the Lung. By J. H. Bartholf, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. At Eichmond, Virginia, on March 13.1868, Private William Caldwell, Co. B, 11th United States Infantry, received a penetrating wound of the thorax, by a small rifled pistol-ball, fired at a distance of twenty yards, by accident. The ball entered the back, an inch and a half to the right of the spinous process of the sixth dorsal vertebra, passed upward and very slightly inward, toward the median line. Its track could be followed onlj^ an inch and a quarter. Emphysema appeared fifteen minutes after the reception of the wound, and soon became very great throughout the front and side of the neck, a little way over the edge of the lower jaw, and on the chest, two inches down the sternum and an inch below the clavicle. In four hours his respiration became very frequent, short and gasping, and very imperfect; the thoracic walls scarcely moving, and the abdomen not much. Number of respirations, fifty-eight in the minute. This condition of the respiration continued five hours, and then gradually improved. On the next morning his respira- tion was easy; twenty-two in the minute. Pulse, 70. Ate a little, for the first time. Emphysema