223 EXCISIONS IN THE HUMERUS. day (the patient being very fully alcoholized), the wound was enlarged two inches, the head of the radius excised, and splinters and the rough extremity of the remainder of the bone removed. No anaesthetic was considered necessary, and it is believed by the operator that its non-administration was greatly in the patient's favor. After applying carbolized oil dressings, the arm was placed in a splint. Chloral was given at night, and was continued as long as necessary. On December 31st, the wound had almost healed, leaving a large and very deep cicatrix. The elbow was semi-flexed, and the motions of the fingers, wrist, and elbow were impaired, but rapidly improving. The dressings and anodyne fulfilled all that could be desired. The patient was discharged April 6,1871. Dr. Eeynolds, in his report, makes note of "the very slight constitutional sympathy accompanying so severe a wound." He regards this as a case for ami^utation in an ordinary subject, and thinks that the favorable result is, in a great measure, owing to the man's good habits and exceptionally good constitution. [He forwards the interesting specimen in the case, consisting of the shattered upper third of the radius, the battered musket-ball, and the tompion. These are mounted together in the Museum as Specimen 5877, Sect. I.] Excisions in the iShaft of the Humerus.—Seven successful cases of excisions of the sJiaft of tlie humerus for gunshot-wounds were reported. DOXXV.—Memorandum relative to an Excision of a Portion of the Humerus. Private John Haire, Troop B, 2d Cavalry, was wounded in the left arm at Fort McPherson, Nebraska Territory, on March 5, 1867, by a rifle ball, which fractured and comminuted the humerus at the middle third, necessitating excision of the bone to the extent of about four inches. The operation was done by a linear incision forty-eight hours after the receipt of the injury, in the hospital of the post, by Surgeon P. C. Davis, U. S. A. The patient was discharged August 5,1867. On September 29, 1869, Dr. E. D. Hudson, who furnished the patient with an apparatus, reports the arm shortened two and a half inches, and somewhat atrophied, but well healed and healthy. The functions of the fore-arm and hand were normal, but the flexion of the limb was somewhat impeded by concretions in the elbow-joint, which could be easily broken. The arm was unreliable, owing to want of leverage. The incipient usefulness of the apparatus, which was applied two years and seven months after the injury, is reported to be highly gratifying and efficacious. DOXXyi.—Minute relative to an Excision of a Portion of the Humerus. By H. E. Tilton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Edward McCarthy, Co. E, 5th Infantry, aged 18 years, was accidentally shot by a guard at Fort Lyon, Colorado Territory, The missile, a Spencer rifle ball, entered the left shoulder posteriorly at the outer edge of the deltoid, three inches from the head of the humerus, passed downward, fracturing and comminuting the shaft of the humerus into about twenty-five pieces, and escaped three inches above the condyles at the outer edge of the biceps. He was sent to the post hospital; chloroform was administered; an incision made from the lower wound upward five inches in length, and four inches of the shaft of the humerus was excised. Four stitches were introduced and a felt bandage applied. April 24:th the wound had healed; there was only one inch and a half shortening. The periosteum remaining after operation had entirely renewed the bone, and on June 30,1868, union between the upper and lower end of humerus was complete. The musculo- spiral nerve being destroyed, there is paralysis of extensor muscles. He can pick uj) any object with his fingers, and will soon be able to carry his hand to his head. He was discharged on August 7, 1868. DCXXVII.—Accotmt of a Partial Excision of the Humerus. Abstract from Eeport of Donald Jackson, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Charles Mitchell, Troop C, 4th Cavalry, aged 31 years, of good constitution and regular habits, was accidentally wounded in the line of duty at Fort Clark, Texas, on June 2, 1867, by the explosion of his carbine, the bullet causing four different wounds; the first entered the left thigh