POISONED WOUNDS. 165 COCCXO.—Report of a Case in which a Bite from a Eattlesnalce proved Fatal. By Jules Le Car- PENTiER, M. D,, Acting Assistant Siirgeou. Private William Robinson, Troop B, 3d Cavalry, aged 37 years, and remarkable for the singu- larity of bis conduct, was known in bis comjiany as a suake-cbarmer, baviug many times bandied poisonous snakes witbout being injured. On tbe morning of July 13, 1809, he was detailed as guard witb tbe berd at Fort Oummings, New Mexico, wben, in tbe presence of tbe berders, be succeeded in catcbing a rattlesnake, and proving bis x>ower as a sorcerer. Tbe performance being over, and tbe snake killed, be caugbt sigbt of anotber of tbe same class, and tried to cbarm tbis as be bad tbe otber. But bere bis power failed. He was bitten in tbe middle finger of tbe rigbt band. He was immediately admitted to tbe post bospital, complaining only of a little smarting tbat migbt be comi)ared to tbe pain following tbe sting of a bee or a wasp. A ligature was ai^plied above tbe wound ; tbe two injuries made by tbe fangs were enlarged witb a bistoury; ammonia and tbe actual cautery were applied, and wbiskey ordered in large doses frequently repeated. Tbe constitution of tbe patient being broken down and poor, I bad doubts, from tbe beginning, as to bis recovery. Vomiting- soon came on, but was stopped witbout trouble. Tbe swelling of tbe band and arm increased gradually, sbowing tbe particular livid andyellowisb tint following tbe bites of poisonous snakes. A blister was applied to tbe bitten finger, tincture of iodine used, and two ounces of wbiskey given every two bours until ebriety was induced. Tbe pulse, wbicb was very mucb reduced, at first gained gradually under tbe influence of stimulants. Two grains of opium were given at nigbt; tbe patient slei)t well, and on tbe next day complained only of numbness in tbe arm. Tbe swelling- bad extended as far as tbe sboulder-joint, and tbe blood, wbicb was very fluid, was incessantly running from tbe wounds. Carbolic acid and cerate were applied to tbe arm, witb stimulants internally. On tbe 15tb, bis general condition was good; tbe swelling bad somewbat augmented; tbere was not so mucb lividity, but tbe yellowisb bue bad increased. On tbe IGtb, be complained of pain in tbe neck, on tbe side of tbe affected limb, but bis general condition was good. Examining bis genitals, an iron ring six-eigbtbs of an incb in diameter was discovered, imbedded in tbe soft tissues of tbe penis, constricting it to sucb a degree as to bave produced an enormous enlargement of tbe parts. Upon inquiry it seemed probable tbat tbe ring bad been kept on tbe jiarts very long, as a preservative of cbastity; but tbe swelling baving come on, under tbe influence of tbe snake's venom, and tbe patient baving mucb difficulty in passing water, was obliged to complain. Tbe ring- was filed off witb some difficulty. Gangrene destroyed tbe extremity of tbe bitten finger. From tbis date until tbe 30tb, bis condition improved somewbat. Tbe i)rogress of tbe gangrene was stopped, and I disarticidated tbe injured finger at tbe metacarpal articulation. Ansestbesia was readily obtained, but tbe appearance of tbe second stage was bardly perceptible. I was called early on tbe next morning, tbe patient baving been observed to be sinking. I found bim witb stertorous respir- ation, pulse weak and slow, and only partly conscious. Electricity was applied to tbe spine, and brandy and bromide of potassium wore given; but be died about noon July 16, 1869. A necropsy was made one bour after deatb. Tbere was general softening of tbe tissues, particularly on tbe affected side. Tbe blood was black and very fluid—not coagulable. Tbe ventricles of tbe brain were filled witb a large amount of serum ; tbe brain was somewbat congested. Tbe lungs were bealtby, witb tbe exception of a few crude tubercles of recent formation on tbe left side. Tbe rigbt ventricle of tbe beart was empty, and tbe left filled witb dark blood wbicb bad coagulated. Tbe liver and kidneys were bealtby, and tbe gall-bladder very mucb distended witb bile. Tbe intes- tines presented a few livid patcbes on tbe outside. CCCCXOI.—JSfote relative to Two Poisoned Wounds. By lEViNa 0. EOSSE, M. D., Acting Assist- ant Surgeon. In May, 1869, Mr. E. C , a butcber, was stung on tbe band by a scorpion, at Point Isabel, Texas. He immediately bound up bis band in a mixture of bruised garlic and common salt, tbe popular and domestic remedy for tbese stings among tbe people of tbat section of country. W^ben seen a few bours after tbe reception of tbe injury, most of tbe severe symptoms bad subsided, and uotbing was prescribed. He made a good recovery.