EEPOliT OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 188 DXLI.—Note relative to an Amjmtation of the Arm. By C.Bacon, Jr., Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Jean Shields, Troop D, GtU Cavalry, aged 22 years, was admitted into the post hospi- tal at Jacksboro, Texas, December 13, 18G0, amputation of the left arm liaving been performed at the middle third, on account of injury, at Sherman, Texas, October 15, 18GG. He was returned to duty January 17, 1867. DXLII.—Remarls on a. Primary Am^mtation of the Arm for Gunshot Injury. By P. Middleton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. An Indian girl, aged 15 years, received, September 11, 18G8, near Dickenson's Eanche, Ari- zona Territory, a gunshot wound of the right arm. The lower i)art of the humerus was shattered, and the elbow-joint opened. On the same day, in the field, Private George W. Miller, Company A, 8tli Cavalry, acting hospital steward, M-ithout administering an ana'sthetic, amputated the humerus at the lower third, by the antei'ior-posterior Ua]) method. Four ligatures were applied. On the next day, she was brought as a prisoner of war to the post hospital, Camp Whipple, Arizona Territory. Cold-water dressings were applied, and the patient did well. On September 29th, she was convalescent. On the 30th, at midnight, two Indians approached the hospital, and recaptured the prisoner. DXLIII.—Note relative to a Primary Amputation of the Arm for Gunshot Injury. By T. H. Turner, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private George Washington, Troop I, 10th Cavaby, received, January 20, 18G9, a gunshot comminuted fracture of the left elbow-joint. He was immediately admitted to the post hospital, Fort Wallace, Kansas, and, on the same day, Assistant Surgeon J. A. Fitzgerald, United States Army, amputated the left arm at the lower third of the humerus. The patient was depressed at the time of the operation. Progress was good until the third week, when he commenced sinking, death supervening on the 8th of February, 18G9. DXLIY.—Note relative to an Amputation of the Arm. By T. Cunynghame, M. D., Acting- Assistant Surgeon. Private David White, Co. G, 41st Infantry, aged 23 years, was wounded September G, 18G7, by the accidental discharge of a rifle. The missile, a conoidal ball, caused a compound complicated and comminuted fracture of radius, ulna, and humerus of one arm. He was at once adnutted to the post hospital at Einggold Barracks, Texas, the whole of the elbow-joint being extensively pulpified and lacerated. Patient was suffering with intermittent fever at time of injury. Amputation at middle third of arm w^as performed September G, 1867. Death resulted September 9, 1867, from nervous shock. Amputations at the 8hov2der-joint.—Of tlie four special cases reported one proved fatal. Three were due to gunsliot wounds ; one to railway accident. DXLV.—Report of a Successful Case of Primary Amputation at the Shoulder-Joint for Gunshot Injury.—By D. L. HuNTiNGTON, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Manuel Chavez, a Mexican, aged 24 years, was wounded near Fort Cummings, New Mexico, on July 3, 1868, by the accidental discharge of an old Springfield musket, while drawing it out of a wagon. The ball entered near the internal edge of the brachialis anticus muscle, about four inches below the head of humerus, fractured the bone badly, and, passing out near the posterior edge of the deltoid, injured the brachial artery and severed the nerve. On July 4th, after riding forty-five miles without water, he was admitted to the hospital at Fort Bayard, Xew Mexico, the wound being in a high state of inflammation. Morphine was given, and after three hours' rest the l^atient >vas rendered insensible with one part chloroform and four parts ether, and the arm was amputated at the shoulder-joint, with a deltoid and inner flap. Little or no blood was lost, and