EEPOET OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 176 a blank cartridge about oue tliirtl bome, wben tbe vent was uncovered, causing premature discbarge. Tlie receding sponge-staft" crusbed tbe rigbt band, opened tbe rigbt wrist-joint, severed tbe muscles of tbe lower tbird of tbe rigbt foi'e-arm on tbe anterior aspect, tore away tbe belly of tbe deltoid muscle, and lacerated tbree of its fibres tbat arise from tbe acromion process, and fractured tbe first pbalanx of tbe left index finger. Tbere was also a simiile fracture of tbe left radius, supposed to bave been caused by tbe fall of tbe patient. Tbe rigbt arm and fore-arm, tbe rigbt side of face and eye, and tbe cbest, were sligbtly burned. He was admitted to tbe post bospital; and baving partially recovered from tbe sbock, was cbloroformed, and tbe rigbt fore-arm was amputated at tbe junction of tbe lower tbirds, and tbe left index finger at tbe metacarpo-pbalangeal articulation, botb by circular operations. Tbe fracture of tbe left radius being readily reduced, Nelaton's splint was adjusted to tbe palmar surfiice of tbe band and fore-arm. Tbe stump of tbe rigbt fore arm was dressed witb dry bandages and oakum, and bealed by first intention, except at tbe inner border, Avbere tbe ligatures applied to tbe ulnar and radial arteries required tbe bealing to be by suppura- tion and granulation. On August 8, 18GS, tbe stump bad bealed. Dili.—Report of a Primary Amputation of the Fore-arm for Gunsliot Injury. By B. A. Clements, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private William Blair, Batteiy K, 1st Artillery, aged 18 years, received, July 8, 18G7, by tbe Xiremature discbarge of a six-pound rifled cannon wbile firing a salute, a compound comminuted fracture of tbe rigbt fore-arm and band witb extensive laceration of tbe soft parts. He was, on tbe same day, admitted to tbe post bospital, Jackson Barracks, New Orleans, Louisiana, wbere tbe fore-arm was amputated at tbe upper tbird, one bour and a balf after reception of tbe injury, making oval skin flaps. Parts united in almost tbeir entire extent by first intention. Tbe progress of tbe case was retarded by an attack of yellow fever. September 11,1SG7, perfect union and sufficient stump left to give effective support to an artificial limb. He was discbarged November 27,1868, witb a pension of §15 per montb. DIV.—Report of a Primary Amputation of the Fore-arm for Railway Injury. By John T. King, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private George C. Crawford, Co. C, 4:0th Infantry, aged 32 years, was injured at Goldsborougb, Nortb Carolina, Marcb 29, 18G9. by tbe passage of a railroad car over bis right band, completely crushing it. Assistant Surgeon William F. Smith, United States Army, immediately administered chloroform, and amputated the lower third of the fore-arm by tbe circular method. Three ligatures were used. On tbe same day be was admitted to the post hospital, from bis company, where, on the 31st of Marcb, tbe case was reported as progressing favorably. The patient was discharged May 15, 1869, witb a pension of $15 per montb. DV.—Report of a Double Amputation of the Fore-arm. By T. H. Turner, Assistant Surgeon U. S. A. Private William Greiter, Co. C, 5tb United States Infantry, aged 28 years, wbile firing a salute at Fort Wallace, Kansas, July 19, 18G8, was wounded by tbe premature explosion of a cannon, which badly shattered and burned both bands and fore arms. Immediately after I amputated both fore-arms at the middle third. Both stumps were well on tbe twenty-fourth day after the oi)eration. He was discharged May G, 18G9, and pensioned at $25 per month. DVI.—Account of an Amputation of both Fore-arms for Gunshot Injury. By Donald Jackson, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private George Grey, Troop M, 9th Cavalry, while firing a national salute on June 29, 18G8, at Fort Clark, Texas, was wounded by the sponge-staff" of a field piece, which carried away portions