EErOET OF SUEGIOAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 224 posteriorly, in tlie lower third, and, passing tlirongli the soft parts, produced a slight wound of the left little finger; next entered the left fore-arm on the ulnar side, one inch above the wrist-joint, and, passing upward and outward, emerged three inches above; finally entering the left arm three inches below the axilla and just in front of the brachial artery, it passed through the bone upward, outward, and backward, causing extensive comminution, and lodged in the body of theinfra-spiuatus muscle. After having sufficiently recovered from the shock of injury, the patient was rendered insensible by equal parts of ether and chloroform, when a Y-shaped flap was made having the apex at the insertion of the deltoid. The anterior incision was carried to the acromion; the posterior, three inches upward and backward from the vertex. Another incision, one inch and a half downward, was also made. The soft parts were greatly lacerated and there was considerable oozing of blood. No important artery was cut. One-half of the bone being removed, the wound was filled with cotton and tightly bandaged to arrest bleeding. A few hours subsequently an anodyne was administered, and the patient rested well. Irrigation was applied to the wounds, the discharge from which was profuse, and his strength was sustained by generous diet. By the middle of July, all the wonnds had healed favorably, except a small sinus through the anterior incision communicating with inferior border and the spine of the scapula, portions of which subsequently exfoliated, and which finally healed irp completely by October 12th. The last phalanx of the little finger was extruded tlu'ough the wound, after which it healed, leaving a small cicatrix. The flexor tendons became involved in the cicatrix of the wound of the fore-arm, causing impaired usefulness of the hand. The patient was discharged the service on July 1, 18G7, by reason of expiration of enlistment, no certificate of disability being furnished him. He was fiually discharged from hospital on November 10, 18G7, and on January 12, 18G8, was a watchmaii of Government property at San Aiitonio, Texas. [In June, 18G8, Mitchell was furnished with an artificial apparatus by Doctor E. D. Hudson. At that date there was no command of arm or fore-arm, and the hand was partiallj^ i)aralyzed. He made an ai)plicatiou for pension, but the case is still i)ending, Ed,J DOXXVIII,—Account of an Excision of a Portion of the Humerus. By H, K. Durrani, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Barauga Nepomoceno, a ]\Iexican, was wounded in an attack made by Apache Indians on a Government freight train, which he was driving, on December 18, 1870, by a ball which shattered the left humerus in the upi)er third. He was admitted to hospital at Camp Lowell, Arizona Territory, where, on the 2Gth, the parts being painful and very much swollen, he was chloro- formed, and four inches of the shaft of the humerus, immediately below the head, was excised. His general condition at the time of the operation was very good. Cold water and a solution of liermangauate of potash were applied to the wound, which healed rapidly. The patient experienced very little constitutional disturbance. On January 21, 1871, the patient was about to leave the hospital with a very useful arm. The excised bone, with the history of the case, was contributed to the Army Medical Museum by the operator, and is No. 575G, Surgical Section. DCXXIX.—Bemarlcs on a Case of Excision of the Shaft of the Bight Humerus. By S. M. Horton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. James Navity, a citizen, aged 30 years, was wounded in an attack by Indians at Crazy Woman's Fork, Dakota Territory, December 2, 18G7, by a conoidal ball, which entered in front and lodged in back part of right arm. He was, on December 7th, admitted to post hospital at Fort Philip Kearney. Copious suppuration from wounds of entrance and exit ensued, and the arm became swollen from shoulder to elbow. On February 6, 18G8, I administered equal parts of ether and chloroform; made an incision six inches long over the seat of fracture, and excised six fragments of the humerus, the largest one inch and a half long by one-fourth of an inch thick. The ball, very much flattened, was found imbedded in the shaft of the humerus, three inches above the fracture, and was also removed. The fragments, as also the contiguous ends of the broken humerus, were found denuded of periosteum.