mCISED AND PUifCTUEED WOUNDS. 93 shape. Meat aud soup were ordered for tlie first time, but no vegetables. He gradually improved, and on the 31st was able to walk about. He complained of being- weak, and of having pain in the left shoulder, and also " inside" about the wound when he attempted to lift anything. There was a slight soft iiainless swelling a little to the left of the wound, but the color ot the skin over it was entirely natural. He was retained in hospital until he regained his strength, and was returued to duty in February, 1870. COOXV.—Report of a Case of Incised Wound of tlie Addomcn with Puncture and Escape of the Intestines, followed by Traumatic Peritonitis. By W. H. Doughty, M. D. I was called at midnight of June 11,1808, in Augusta, Georgia, to see Private James Merchant, Co. I, IGth Infantry, who had just received the following wound, in a street altercation with a negro : As first seen in the street he was laying upon his back, with the abdomen exposed, and covered with the largest mass of protruding intestines that I ever saw, almost the entire region being thus covered. Having been removed to the barracks near by, with the assistance of Dr. John S. Cole- man of this city, I proceeded to examine and dress the wound. The intestines were covered with sand and grit, derived from contact with the ground and clothes of the man, and the small intes- tines (ilium) incised at one point, and scratched by the passing knife at another. This incision, being about an inch in length, was closed with a single stitch of silk thread, and after thorough cleans- ing the whole mass was with great difficulty returued to the abdominal cavity. In this hernial Ijrotrusiou we recognized four or five feet of the ilium, the caecum with its appendix, part of the ascending colon, with corresponding i:)ortions of the mesentery, the distribution of the superior mesenteric artery to these several portions made more apparent by its living pulsation, was more beautifully displayed in the series of its successive arches than in any dissection that I ever wit- nessed. Eaising the mass, I found that the wound in the peritonaeum, through which it had escaped, was about two and a half inches in length, and tightly embraced its neck ; witli the hips of the l^atient raised higher than the chest so as to favor the gravitation of the viscera, it was replaced in the abdomen, whereupon was disclosed an incision commencing two inches below the umbilicus, and two inches to the left of the linea alba, running horizontally above the crest of the ilium, nearly to the spine, fourteen inches long, opening the abdomen near its inner or anterior extremity, and severing the muscular parieties as far back as the thick muscles of the lumbar region. Eelaxing the abdominal walls as far as possible, the wound was accurately closed with hare-lip pins, and annealed wire sutures. Suitable compresses were applied and a roller firmly encircling the body. There was also a superficial wound upon the chest, six inches in length, extending obliquely from right to left. The shock from these wounds was very severe indeed, the patient at onetime becoming pulseless. We were apparently dressing the wounds of a dying man. Whiskey and laudanum were administered, and next morning the patient was comi^aratively comfortable, reaction being complete. Perfect quiet and isolation in a dark room were enforced; two grains of powdered opium were administered every four hours; ice was given to quench thirst; poultices of the same were applied to the abdomen, and the left thigh was kept j)ermanently flexed. On June 16th the pulse and tempera- ture being very high, the patient became delirious, and it was necessary to restrain him by force. Bromide of potassium and whiskey were freely administered. Failing to induce sleep they were discontinued, and one-third of a grain of morphine was administered hj^perdermically, which caused sleep in half an hour, and deeply narcotized the patient. Next day all the symptoms were much improved; medicine was discontinued, aud a stimulating and nutritious diet allowed. The local applications were continued. Hyi^erdermic medication was again resorted to on the next evening. On the 19th a very decided improvement had taken place; the ice poultices were dis- continued, and a more liberal diet, with stimulants, allowed. The wound was subsequently dressed with adhesive strips and a solution of carbolic acid. On June 21st he continued to improve. Muriated tincture of iron was prescribed. By the 23d granulation had begun. Between this date and the 26th the temperature remained normal. At the latter date the patient was doing well, aud the wound granulating finely, when he was transferred to Acting Assistant Surgeon Petard.* * Dr. Felix Petard takes up this case ou his Juuo report, aud in July, 1868 reports ouo case of vnhiii.s hu'wuni returned to duty.—Ed.