llEPOET OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 50 l)ital at Santa Fe ou the same day. The collapse following the injury was of a very severe kind, lasting nearly all night. Alcoholic stimulants, hot sinapisms, and chloroform were freely used. After reaction he had severe pain in the region of the wound, and dyspnoea. Suli>hate of morphia, in one half-grain doses, was given hypodermically, and repeated in two hours. Warm i)oultices were applied over the wound and abdomen. His condition at this time w^as unfavorable and discouraging; pulse frequent and feeble. He had great pain on inspiration and an anxious expres- sion of countenance. There w-as no external htemorrhage. On March 15th, having had no move- ment of the bowels, an enema was given, which acted on the next day, after which his condition improA'^ed. On the next day, he ate some vegetable soup, by mistake, which brought on a profuse diarrhoBa accompanied by intense tenesmus. Considerable blood w^as found in the last two opera- tions. By March 19th, the diarrhoea was checked, and he again commenced to improve. On the 20th, he complained of great pain over the seat of the left lobe of the liver; there was dullness on percussion, extending as high as the fourth rib, and two Inches below the lower boundary of the right hypochondriac region. During the night the wound of entrance discharged two ounces of pus commingled with bile, which was evidently from the right lobe of the liver. The patient was much relieved; pulse 100; respiration 26. On March 28th, the wound commenced discharging daily about two ounces of pus intermingled with bile and shreds of liver. He continued to improve, and on April 13th, was able to sit up two or three hours a day. Nourishing diet and stimulants were continued, and, on April 24th, he returned to his quarters. He recovered, and was returned to duty June 11, 1868. CltYlll.—Note relative to a Case of GunsJwt Wound of the Liver. By Frederick Hassig, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Thomas Eiley, Co. E, 25th United States infantry, aged 26 years, was wounded in an affray near Paducah, Kentucky, on February 29,1868, by a conoidal ball, which entered between the sixth and seventh ribs, about one and a half inches from the spinal column, passed through the liver, and lodged two inches under the right nipjile. There was i^rofuse bleeding from the wound - of entrance. The ball was cut out the same day. On March 1st, the patient was sent to Paducah. The wound rapidly healed. He was returned to duty in May, 1868. CLIX.—Memorandum of a Case of Recovery after Otmshot Wound of the Gall-Bladder and Liver. By Assistant Surgeon J. H. Patzki, U. S. A. At Fort Eichardson, Texas, Private John Murphy, Co. M, 6th United States Cavalry, aged 25 years, received in an affray a gunshot wound of the abdomen, penetrating the right lobe of the liver and the gall-bladder. He was admitted to the post hospital November 27, 1870, one day after the reception of the injury. Water dressings were applied locally, and morphine was given internally. He recovered, and was discharged the service December 27, 1870. The four following reports relate to fatal gunshot wounds of tlie liver, and with the preceding reports on the subject, and two reports among gunshot ivounds of the ispleen, furnish a total of fifteen cases of gunshot wound of the liver, with four recoveries: CLX.—Report of a Gtmshot Wound of the Liver and Colon. By Calvin DeWitt, Assistant Siu'geon, U. S. A. Private Joseph Darragh, Co. E, 1st United States Cavalry, aged 21 years, was woujuled December 10, 1869, in a personal encounter with an Indian during an attack on a band of Apache— Mojaves met by a scouting party under command of Captain George B. Sanford, 1st United States Cavalry. The ball was shot from a Spencer carbine in the hands of a comrade who attempted to