SUICIDAL GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE HEAD. 15 XXXIII.—Blemorcmdum of a Case of Perforating Gunshot Wound of the Head. By B. E. Fryer, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Daniel Kaufman, Co. E, 7th United States Cavalry, aged 23 years, attempted to com. mit suicide at Fort Harker, Kansas, by shooting himself in the head with a i)istol, the missile from which entered over the right frontal sinus and passed out through the left eye, destroying the eye and lacerating the lower lid. The treatment of the case is not recorded. Death supervened on December 21, 1807. At the autopsy the brain was found congested and softened, and an abscess in the anterior lobe of the left hemisphere containing two and a half ounces of pus. XXXIY.—Note of a Case of Suicide. By A. W. Greanlbap, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private John Flannery, Co. C, 2d United States Infantry, aged 21 years, committed suicide by shooting himself through the head with a conoidal musket ball. He was admitted into the United States Army post hospital at Montgomery, Alabama. He died May 20, 1869. XXXV—Extract relative to a Case of Suicide^ from the Chattanooga Post Hospital Report for October, 18G6. By C. E. Goddard, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Xelson Lowry, Co. D, Second Battalion 16th United States Infantry, aged 25 years, while suffering imder mental depression caused by religions melancholy, September 25, 1866, shot himself. The missile, a conical bullet, entered at the inner canthus of the right eye, and passed out at a point midway between the lobe of the right ear and the occipital protuberance, fracturing in its course the lachrymal, frontal, parietal, temporal, and occipital bones. Death was instantaneous. XXXVI.—Memorandum of a Case of Suicide. By E. H. White, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private David Wilson, Co. H, United States Infantry, shot himself through the head at St. Augustine, Florida, August 8, 1867, and died instantly. Dr. Hopkins made tlie autopsy, of which no record is preserved. Of the many Indian crania contributed to the Army Medical Museum, during the last five years, not a few presented examples of gunshot perforations of the skull, or of depressed or penetrating gunshot fractures. It is very painful to observe that these crania, in many instances, present numerous cleanly-cut perforations, from small projectiles at close range, evidently inflicted after death, and that this senseless vengeance was often wreaked upon the corpses of women and children. The wood-cut adjoining (Fig. 4) illus- trates this imitation of the atrocities of the savages. It represents the calvaria of a squaw of the band of Sioux under "Little Bear," killed at Chug Water, Wyoming Territory, in April, 1870. The skull was sent to the Museum by Surgeon 0. H. Alden, United States Army. The next figure (Pig. 5) represents the cranium of a Cheyenne warrior, with an extensive fracture of the left upper maxillary region, and a perforation of the frontal by a pistol ball. The missile made its exit through the foramen magnum. The preparation was forwarded Fig. 4.—Cranium perforated by carbine or pistol balls. Spec. 5695, Sect. I, A. M. M. Fig. 5.—Oranuini ol <a Cliey- eiine, pertorated by a pistol- ball. Spec. 5661, Sect. I, A. M. M.