82 EEPOET OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. CCliXX.XU.—Report of a Gunshot Wound of the Leg. By J. M. Best, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon, Private James Farrall, Co. E, 25th Infantry, was wounded in a street fight, on December 1, 1868. The ball entered the integuments on the anterior and inner part of the upper third of the tibia of left leg, passed out about two inches from the place of entrance, in an almost transverse direction, burying about half the width of a small ball in the substance of the tibia. He was admitted to the post hospital at Von Schrader Barracks, Paducah, Kentucky, on the same day. Simple dressings were applied. He was returned to duty on January 8,1869. CCLXXXIII.—Memorandum of a Case of Gunshot Fracture of Tibia and Ulna. By W. H. Hopper, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private John McWilliams, Co. I, 14th Infantry, aged 23 years, received, near Somerset, Ken- tucky, February IG, 1870, five balls in his body, the first causing a flesh-wound in the right shoul- der, the second on the left side, just above the crest of the ilium, the third in the left arm, just below the elbow, the fourth in the right arm below the elbow-joint, fracturing the ulna, and the fifth in the right leg, about four inches below the patella, shattering the tibia. On April 9th he was admitted to post hospital at Lebanon, Kentucky. A ball which had been overlooked was now cut out. The first three wounds had healed before his admission. The fourth healed rapidly, leaving perfect anchylosis of the joint. The fifth wound was still ojien, and slightly suppurating, June 30, 1870. He was sent to his regiment on October 24, 1870. CCLXXXIV.—Memorandum Relative to a Gunshot Wound of the Leg. By W. M. Austin, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Joseph Shaw, Co. D, 3d Cavalry, was wounded on October 17,1867, in a fight with Indians, by a ball which caused a wound of the right tibia. He was admitted at Fort Bliss and Camp Concordia, Texas, on October 25,18G7. On February 2,1868, the necrosed bone was excised. He was returned to duty on March 9, 1808. CCLXXX V.—Memorandum of a Case of Gunshot Fracture of the Bight Tibia. By J. F. Hammond, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Eobert Bnrgi, Co. H, 4th Cavalry, aged 23 years, received a gunshot wound of the right leg by a conoidal ball, June 13, 1870, while on his way to supper, from a soldier who was standing in the door of a tent, ten yards distant, the ball striking the posterior aspect of the limb in the median line, three inches below the knee-joint, passing horizontally through the leg and comminuting the tibia in its transit. He was admitted to the post hospital at Austin, Texas, the same day. Treatment consisted of lead-water, solution of permanganate of potassa, poultices, and solution of carbolic acid. The man was still under treatment January 1,1871. He was dis- charged April 30, 1871. Special reports were made of nineteen gunshot flesh-wounds of the leg. In four instances foreign bodies were extracted. Seventeen patients went to duty; one was dis- charged and one died of pysemia. CCLXXXVI.—A Case of Gunshot Wound of the Leg. By Ferdinand Axt, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John Welsh, Co. E, 23d Infantry, aged 34 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Cami> McDermit, lievada, July 23, 1808, with a gunshot wound of the left leg. The ball entered on the inside of the middle of the leg, traversed tlie cellular tissue posterior to the tendo Achillis, and emerged on a level with the u])])er end of the malleolus. Chloroform being administered, a large number of minute shreds ol' clothing were removed from the wound. Ice-water dressings were applied. The patient was discharged from hospital September 13, 1868. The wound had nearly closed and the movement of the foot was not impaired.