193 AMPUTATIONS AT TEE ANKLE-JOINT, OS calcis, shattered the astragalus, and involved the joint to snch an extent as to render amputa- tion of the foot necessary, which Avas performed by J. G. Eiddler, Assistant Surgeon, 5th U. S. V. The patient became very much reduced in consequence of diarrhoea, which was overcome by the use of turpentine and laudanum in emulsion, all other means failing, Ou July 31, 18G5, the patient was doing well. Amputations at the Ankle-Joint.—Of the four cases of this class, made subjects of special reports, one proved fatal, DLV.—Bemarls on a Case of Frost-Bite in ivMcli hoth Feet were removed by Pirogoffs Method. By Jaiies F. Weeds, Surgeon, U. S. A. Daniel Ferns, formerly a private of Co. Iv, 7th Infantry, aged 45 years, started from Santa E(§, New Mexico, about the loth of January, 1866, at midnight, for Fort Craig, in a state of intoxication, and carrying a canteen of whiskey with him. The night was very cold, the thermom- eter being below zero. After walking eighteen miles, he lost the road, and lay down, when both Ms feet were frozen. Being unable to bear transportation, he was treated in a lorivate family at Algadones, New Mexico, twenty-five miles north of Albuquerque. The feet were found sphacelated,* the line of demarcation on the right foot being a little above the scapho-cuneiform articulation, and the left at the astragalan-scaphoid on the dorsum of the foot, and two lines in front of the cal- caneum cuboid on the plantar surface. The parts about the right ankle were much swollen, inflamed, and infiltrated, and the vitality was very low. There was an ulcer over the external malleolii. The parts about the left ankle were but little swollen or inflamed. The patient's constitution was broken by many years of intemperance. The pulse was small and weak, and 120 per minute; surface covered with cold perspiration; bowels were loose, the evacuations being frequent and watery; and the appetite was poor, the patient having an intense desire for whiskey, and con- stantly calling for it. On January 27th, I amputated at the right ankle-joint by Pirogoffs operation; and, on the 31st, the same operation was performed on the left. The antesthetic was chloroform one part and ether two parts. After the operations, the constitutional symp- tons improved ; the pulse fell to eighty-five, and had more volume and force; the cold perspiration ceased, and the appetite improved. The wounds on both feet partly closed by first intention. Inflammation and swelling about the left ankle greatly diminished. He continued to improve until February 10th, when mortification showed itself in both limbs without any previous increase of constitutional symptoms, and spread rapidly toward the body without forming any line of demarcation. From this time he sank rapidly. The treatment prescribed was cold-water dress- ings, the frequent and free administration of stimulants, nutritious animal diet, and anodynes to relieve pain and secure rest. These directions were not followed; the stimulants were irregularly administered, and the diet was poor and insuflicient. To these causes the patient's death, which occurred on February 12, 1866, is attributed. No post-mortem. DLVI.—Memorandum relative to an Amputation of the Foot by Pirogoffss Method. By J. E, Semple, Assistant Surgeon, U, S, A. H, G. Nims, additional paymaster, aged 25 years, was admitted to the post hospital, Fort Vancouver, Washington Territory, December 25, 1866, with a gunshot fracture and comminution of the external and middle cuneiform bones of the right foot, the ball having entered the lower third of tibia externally, passed down, and lodged in the foot. The parts were blackened and bleed- ing. His general condition was good, with the exception of being exceedingly nervous. On Decem- ber 28th, ether was administered and the foot amputated at the ankle-joint, after the method of Pirogoff. Water dressings, and a solution of morphia at night, were applied. He recovered, and by the 1st of April, 1867, he had been returned to duty, but was mustered out July 1, 1867, DLVII.—Account of an Amputation of the Foot by 8yme''s Method. By A. D, Wilson, Assistant Surgeon, U, S, A. Private Peter Vandel, Co. A, 3d Infantry, aged 31 years, was accidentally wounded, while in quarters, November 5, 1867, by a conoidal musket ball, wliich entered just below the inner malle-