206 EEPOET OF SUEGIGAL CASES IN THE ARMY. DLXXXVI.—Report of a Seconctary Amputation of the Thigh. By Harvey E. Brown, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Sergeant John Cameron, Co. K, 31st Maine Volunteers, aged 26 years, while on picket before Petersburg, June 18, 1804, was struck by a conoidal musket ball, which produced a flesh-wound about two inches above the right knee. He was sent to City Point, and thence to the De Camp Hospital, New "York Harbor, where he arrived on June 2Gth. Expectant treatment was used. On August 6th, he was sent to the Cony Hospital at Augusta, Maine, and was returned to duty on September 28, 1864. No further record of the case can be found- until June 2, 1865, when he was discharged the service at the post hospital at Augusta ; but he remained for treatment until July 31, 1866, when the hospital was discontinued. Prior to the latter date, the knee-joint had become very much enlarged from deposit of plastic matter following chronic arthritis. The patient was emaciated, his appetite poor, and general condition bad. On July 5,1866, being rendered insensible by an antesthetic composed of one part chloroform and three parts ether, the tliigh was amputated at the lower third by the double-flap operation. Water dressings were applied. The incisions healed by first intention ; the ligatures came away on the eleventh day. On July 27th the stump had entirely healed, and the patient was walking about on crutches, having gained several pounds since the operation. DLXXXYII.—Account of Primary Ampiitation of the Eight Thigh in the Loicer Third. By Irving 0. EossE, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Frank Cheeseman, a large muscular mulatto man, aged about 30 years, and employed as a laborer in unloading fixed ammunition in one of the small buildings used for pyrotechnic purposes, at Fort Monroe, Virginia, was seriously wounded on the afternoon of August 3, 1870, by several fragments of shell, an explosion having occurred through the carelessness of a fellow-laborer. The patient being taken to hospital on a litter, I found almost the whole of the right leg torn to pieces, and the knee-joint implicated; the fourth and fifth metatarsals of the left foot were broken, a fragment of shell remaining in the muscles of the plantar region, and another fragment was imbedded in the muscles of the right fore-arm. There were besides several superficial wounds on the chest; the patient's hands, neck, and face were badly burned, and he was unable to see. The amount of shock and haemorrhage was not great considering the gravity of the injuries, and the patient comijlained more of the smarting from the burns than of his other wounds. The burns were dressed with carbolized glycerine ; anodynes with stimulants were administered ,and i^roiJer means were taken to bring about reaction. Amputation having been decided upon, about noon on the following day the usual preliminaries were arranged, arid Surgeon George E, Cooper, U. S. A., chloroformed the patient. The induction of anaesthesia was somewhat slow, the pulse meanwhile being intermittent. I amputated the thigh in the lower third, using the circular operation; the arteries were withdrawn from their sheaths and ligated; the cut surfaces of the stump were allowed to glaze, and the wound was closed with silver-wire sutures. Haemorrhage was very slight. The patient, surviving the operation but a short time, died from the shock. DXXXVIII.—Report of an Intermediary Amputation of the Thigh. By T. H. Turner, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Louis Farley, of Major George A. Forsyth's Independant Company of Scouts, received a gunshot fracture of the thigh, at the battle of Dry Forks, on the Eepublican Eiver, Kansas, September 17, 1868. Amputation was performed on the tenth day. Death resulted four hours afterward. DXXXIX.—Mention of a Primary Amputation of the Thigh. By J. M. Dickson, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Charles A. Fonda, Co. D, 23d Infantry, received a severe gunshot wound of the knee-' joint in a skirmish near Lake Warner, Oregon, April 29, 1868. Amputation at the lower third of the thigh was performed on the next day. He died under the operation.