73 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITIES. lijBmorrhfige. A post-mortem examination was made four hours after death. The body was found in good condition and well nourished, very little emaciation having taken place. An artery, with a diameter of one-sixteenth of an inch, probably a branch of the profunda, if not the profunda itself, was found with its orifice patulous. The hip-joint was totally uninjured. The pathological specimen, consisting of the head and fragments of the femur, is represented in the opposite wood- cut. Fig. 12. COXLYI.—Report of a Case of Compound Comminuted Fracture of the Femur^ treated hy the Anterior Suspensory Apparatus. By Carlos Carvallo, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private William S. Smith, Troop D, 6th Cavalry, aged 31 years, was Avounded on March 30, 1868, by a conoidal pistol ball, which entered the anterior internal aspect of right thigh at the lower third, and emerged on the opposite side, not far from the popliteal fold. On admission to hospital, at Fort Richardson, Texas, an examination revealed a compound comminuted fracture, but on account of the swelling it could not be ascertained whether any fragments were detached. Smith's anterior splint was applied, and sulphate of morphia was administered. On the next day, the leg becoming painful, the splint was removed and afterwards reapplied, when the pain ceased. On April 1st the wound was again exposed, and syringed with a solution of carbolic acid. The slightest motion would cause pain, indicating displacement of bony fragments. On April 2d, the wound began to discharge freely, and the jiatient improved steadily. On May 13th, the splint was removed ; the femur had united with only one inch shortening. On the following day a bandage, supported by binders' boards at the fracture, was applied to the limb. On May 20th, a pocket of pus on the inner side of the thigh was discharged from the wound of entrance. On May 21st, the wound was examined, and but one small piece of dead bone could be detected. A few days later the limb began to swell again, but a solution of chlorinated soda was applied, and the swelling readily subsided. On August 10th, the i)atieut was retiirned to his quarters, able to walk on crutches. November 1st, he was able to walk with a cane ; the right knee was still swollen, and became painful in cold or damp weather. The knee could be flexed to an acute angle only, and was turned inw ard; the right ankle, though pliable, would flex but little ; the motions of the hip joint were normal, but the right hip was lower than the left. The patient suffered from intermittent fever and a bed-sore while under treatment. He was returned to duty (iiolice duty in quarters) on December 16, 1868. CCXLVII.—Report of a Gunshot Fracture of the Femur. By John Campbell, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Thomas Tooher, Co. H, 42d Infantry, aged 25 years, received a comminuted fracture of the femur above the knee-joint on July 11, 1867, from a conoidal bullet. He was admitted from his company to the Madison Barracks post hospital at Sackett's Harbor, New York, on July 11,1867. His leg was placed on a double inclined plane. Simple dressings were applied. In September, 1867, union of bone had taken jjlace, but wound was still open; fragments of bone were still being removed therefrom. CCXLVIII.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Fracture of the Femur. By A. B. Campbell, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private James Soohen, Co. E, 13th Infantry, aged 23 years, was accidentally shot in the upi^er portion of middle third of thigh. The femur was fractured and comminuted, the femoral artery ruptured. He was admitted to the post hosi)ital at Camp Cooke, Montana Territory, on November 5, 1868. Brandy, morphine, and tincture of cannabis Indica were administered, and the wound was dressed with creosote water. The patient died comatose on the afternoon of November 7, 1868. CCXLIX.—Account of a Gunshot Wound of the Thigh. By J. W. Brewer, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John Thomas, Co. L, lOtU Cavalry, aged 22 j ears, was accidentally wounded on July 1,1868, by a conoidal carbine ball, which passed through the lower third of the left femur, implicating 10