148 EEPOET OF SUEGICAL OASES IN THE ARMY. During the first ^vcek of May lie continued to improve; caution concerning- diet and an occasional ]>urge being all that ^'aa considered necessary. On tbe 7tb, after eating heartily of some soup, which I afterward learned to have been " somewhat greasy," be became slightly feverish, and during the succeeding night did not rest well. On the 8tb, skin hot; pulse 65, bard, a little head- ache, and occasionally sickness at stomach. Cold to head ordered, and an enema administered. From this time be gradually grew worse, complaining mucb of pain in the bead, and stiffness in the back of the neck, while on the lltb aud 12tb, muscular tremors were the most prominent objective symptom. Unconsciousness set in on the morning of the 13th, and be died quietly about six hours thereafter. Post-mortem examination seven boars after death. Body muscular, rigid, not emaciated. A firm cruciform cicatrix on posterior and left side of scalp. The centre of this cica. trix adherent by finn fibres to bone beneath. In the bone almost corresponding in situation witb the centre of the cicatrix, was a slit half an incb long, and one-eighth of an inch wide, filled in witb recently formed soft tissue, wbich broke down before the handle of a scalpel. From the upper end of this slit a fissure one incb and a half in length, extended to the inter-parietal suture, while from its other extremity another fissure stretched in curved direction toward the ear two inches. The dura mater was adherent to the margin of the slit in the bone, and to the soft tissue which filled it in ; but external to the membrane there was no collection of matter. In the poste- rior lobe of the left cerebral hemisiibere, the track of the arrow-bead was followed downward, forward, and inward, communicating with the posterior cornu of the left ventricle. The brain tissue, to the extent of three-quarters of an incb around the track as a centre, was softened and disorganized. The track of the arrow-bead was filled witb a thick pus, wliicb bad extended thence into the ventricle. The right ventricle was also filled, as were the sub-arachnoidean spaces. No other organ examined. CCCCLX.—Memorandum relative to the SlciiU of a Mexican Killed hy an Arroio. By W. M. NoT- SON, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. An unknown Mexican was killed by an arrow-wound in an Indian figbt, whicb occurred seventy-five miles northwest of Fort Concbo, Texas, on February 22, 1868. The arrow perforated the frontal. When I opened the skull, I found an incision extending clear across the opposite hemisphere, touching the dura mater just above the tentorium. The dura mater was stained, but I could find no mark on the skull. When I made the post- mortem I found the arrow-head in the brain. When the Mexican was bit he seized the arrow-shaft witb both bands and pulled it out, tbeu dropped and of course remained unconscious until be died, about six hours. The specimen was forwarded to the Army Medical Museum. [It is figured in the adjacent wood-cut, (Fig. 24.) The arrow-head has been removed from the cavity of the skull and fastened at the point of entrance. Apart from the lesion, the skull is a highly interesting specimen.—Ed.] OCOCLXI.—Memorandum of an Arroic-Woiind of the Face. By P. Middleton, Assistant Sur- geon, U. S.A. Private William Drum, Co. G, 14tb Infantry, aged 20 years, was wounded in a figbt witb Apacbe Indians on November 11, 18G7. One arrow entered over the malar bone of the left side of the face, passed along tbe lower border of the orbit to within half an incb of the nose. Another arrow entered tbrougb the tendon of the latissimus dorsi muscle on the right side, and passed directly backward toward tbe spine under tbe deep muscles, penetrating two and a half inches. He was admitted to the post bospital at Fort Whipple, Arizona Territory, on tbe following day. On November lOtb, I cut down upon the aiTOW-bead in the side, and removed it. The parts healed by tbe first intention,.aud on December 3, 1867, the patient was returned to duty. riG. 24. Cranium penetrated by an arrow tLiougli the left superciliarj'%'idgo. Spec. 5044, Sect. I, A. M. M.