AMPUTATIONS AT THE HIP-JOINT 215 visiting tlie post at tliis time, examined the case and advised amputation in preference to excision. Some ten days after I first proposed the operation, I obtained the patient's consent, and as I deemed it advisable, owing to tlie rapid loss of strength, that the operation should be performed as early as possible, I at once made my arrangments, and on June 22d, having obtained the assistance of Dr, Shout, of Las Yegas, Dr. Simpson, of Moro, and of Hospital Steward Enfield, TJ. S. A., I proceeded at half past twelve in the afternoon to amputate. I had had previously constructed a rough clamp for compressing the aorta. The patient was quickly put under the influence of a mixture of ether and chloroform, removed to the operating table, and all my assistants having previously been informed of their duties, the operation was quickly and readily performed, the thigh being removed in, I am told, fifteen seconds. The clamj) controlled the arterial htemorrhage well; in fact, so well that it was extremely difiicult to find and secure the arteries; but the venous hfemorrhage was more troublesome. Some fifteen ligatures were used in all. Little blood was lost. The acetabulum was found much necrosed, and the tissues a good deal diseased. The diseased structures, as far as i^racticable, were removed, and a cerate cloth laid between the flaps, and the patient then imt to bed. His condition during the operation was on the whole good. The pulse several times became extremely feeble, but it quickly rose again under slight stimulation. The breathing was free. The clamp, which made i^ressure one inch above and to the left side of the umbilicus, apparently caused no inconvenience, and certainly interfered very little, if any, with his regular breathing. The anterior flap was made long while the posterior one was extremely short. The patient, before taking the anaesthetic, received hypodermically one- half a grain of mori^hite sulph., and on recovering from their joint influence talked and seemed at perfect ease. He was given small quantities of beef-tea and brandy, and also a little ammonia, as the pulse was feeble and rapid. He complained of great thirst, and craved ice, which was given to him in small quantities. I hoped by these means to bring about reaction and overcome the profound shock under which his system was laboring. His pulse gradually became more feeble, ran up to 160 and 180, and became imperceptible, and yet he was living, talked much, and in every way perfectly sensible. He complained of hunger, said he was as hungry as a dog, and rejected almost immediately everything he took into his stomach. In this condition I resorted to hypodermic injections of tincture of opii, with theeflectof bringing up the pulse and quieting to some extent the irritability of the stomach. In this state he lingered about thirty hours, sometimes almost entirely pulseless ; but with a warm skin and prespiring profusely ; at other times with a quick feeble pulse, sleeping a few moments at a time, until half past five in the evening of the day after the operation, when, taking a piece of icein hismouth, he said, "lam going, "and died almost immediately. Apost- mortem examination showed the flaps glazed to some extent but not united. Wire sutures, it should have been stated, were used to close the wound, which was done some ten hours after the operation. The acetabulum and head of the femur were both extremely necrosed, and the tissues much diseased. If the operation did not save the life, it at least promoted the happy dying, the Euthanasia which Hippocrates says the physician should have as his second object, considering the saving of life his first." DOXI.—Of a Case of Re-amputation at tlie Rip-Joint. By Geokge A. Otis, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private J. Fabry, Co. K, 4th Artillery, aged 38 years, was wounded by shrapnel, August 16, 1864, at Deep Bottom, Virginia, his left leg being shattered, and a portion of the projectile lodged about the knee. His leg was amputated at daybreak the morning following, by Surgeon G. W. Jackson, 53d Pennsylvania Volunteers, and he was sent to the hospital at City Point, and thence to Philadelphia. On August 23d, the stump suppurating and sloughing, an amputation through the knee-joint was done by Acting Assistant Surgeons Atlee and Egan. On August 28th a fuse screw was extracted from the muscles of the thigh by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. B. Eoe. The Satterlee Hospital Keport for September, 1864, represents the patient as weak, and with a bed-sore over the sacrum; necrosis of the femur, with more pain than large doses of morphia would alleviate. On February 4, 1865, an incision was made to evacuate an abscess that liad formed in