GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE HEAD. 7 and one inch and a lialf long. It was deep, extending down to the pericranium. In accordance witli some recent views and results of treatment,* I united the lips of the wound by means of a suture, in order to effect a coalescence by the first intention, or, at least without suppuration, if possible. Cold water dressings were applied. On the fifth day after the injury, I removed the suture ; the lips of the wound then gradually separated, until a sloughing sore was produced. The use of the suture, how- ever, seemed to reduce the amount of sloughing. On the 17th, unexpected and alarming symptoms presented themselves. The patient became semi-unconscious—unable to speak—with enormously- dilated pupils, and a wild expression of countenance. These symptoms, however, i^assed off in au hour, and did not return. The sudden appearance, brief duration, and sudden disappearance of this peculiar condition were quite singular. The wound being foul, I had it washed with a rather strong solution of the sulphate of iron. In twenty-four hours, it siiowed a healthy granulating surface; it continued to improve, and healed rapidly, and the patient was returned to duty November 2, 1868." V. —Extract from a Report of a Case of Gunshot Fracture of the Mastoid Process. By David Walker, Acting Assistant Surgeon. * * * Private X -, Co. E, 1st Oregon Cavalry, aged 22 years, was wounded Septem- ber 0,1805, in an Indian fight on the Little Malheur Eiver, Oregon. He came under treatment on September 12th, at the post hosijital at Eort Steilacoom ,Wasliington Territory. It was found that he had a gunshot wound, the ball having entered at the posterior head of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle, close to the cnrved line, ranging outward and a little upward, and lodging in the mastoid process. There was considerable hiemorrhage from the auditory canal, with temporary- deafness, and iiaralysis of j)art of the portio dura of the seventh i)air. Ultimatelj' the recovery was complete. VI. —Note of a Gunshot Depressed Fracture of the Skull. By T. S. Y. Hutchinson, Acting Assistau Surgeon. Private Eomulus Morris, Co. E, 2d United States Infantry, aged 23 years, was wounded at Bowling Green, Kentucky, March 17,1868, by a rifle ball, which caused a depressed fracture of the left ijarietal bone, with concussion of the brain. He also received a contused wound of the face. He was taken to the post hospital, where the depressed portion of the bone was elevated and the wound dressed. He recovered, and was returned to duty in the succeeding month. VII. —Memorandum of a Case of Gunshot Fracture of the Frontal Bone. By W. E. S3IITH, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private J. Geddes, Co. E, 40th United States Infantry, was wounded August 26,1868, by a small conoidal pistol ball over the right eyebrow. The outer table of the frontal bone was slightlj' fractured. He was admitted into United States Army post hospital, Goldsboro, North Carolina. August 26th, where the ball was removed and water dressings were applied. The wound healed almost immediatelJ^ The patient suffered no inconvenience except a slight headache. Two small pieces of bone came away about a fortnight after the receipt of the injury. VIII. —Report of a penetrating Gunshot Fracture of the Skull. By G. H. Gunn, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. The body of Sergeant Erank Tocker, Co. D, 6th United States Cavalry, was brought to post hospital atEort Eichardson, Texas, at half past seven of the evening of October 15,1869. The apparent cause of death was a penetrating wound of the skull from a carbine or pistol ball. The pupils were widely dilated, and rigor mortis well established, with considerable fetor from the wound. A post- * See American Journal of tlie Medical Sciences, October, 1868, Vol. LVI, p. 585. Reference to a case reported l)y W. M. Findley, who quotes Professor Simon, iu the British and Foreign Medico-Cliiriirgical Review, for April, 18G7.