30 REPOET OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. He was admitted to the post hosital at ludiauola, Texas, about one hour after the reception of the injury, in a state of intoxication, walking supported by two men. Profuse hpemorrhage issued from the wound, which rendered it unsafe to counteract the effects of intoxication. Tlierefore, no attempt was made to bring- on reaction. Cohl water was applied to the wound and head. He did not recover consciousness until five hours afterward, when he complained of excruciating pain in the left side. Respiration was laborioi;s, and there was complete matity on ijercussion, and heavy crepitating sound on auscultation. He expectorated about two ounces of coagulated blood. A powder consisting of a fourth of a grain of acetate of lead and an eighth of a grain of sulphate of morphia was given every hour, for four hours, and then discontinued. The pulse was very weak and remained so until death, at six o'clock of the evening of January 3, 1868. LXXXII.—Memorandum of a Fatal Gunshot Perforation of the Right Lung. By Jules Le Carpen- TIEE, Acting Assistant Surgeon. At Fort Bayard, New Mexico, Farrier John A. Payne, Co. E, 3d United States Cavalry, aged 21 years, was killed, in a riot, by a patrol, on the night of December 24,18G8, at Central City, New Mexico. He received a gunshot wound of the right chest. The missile entered the back, and passed through the right lung. LXXXIII.—Memorandum of a Fatal Case of Gunshot Wound of the Bight Lung. By E. Cowles, Assist- ant Surgeon, U. S, A. Second Lieutenant W. S. Alexander, Co. A, 8th United States Infantry, aged 20 years, was wounded at Fort Macon, North Carolina, at midnight, on March 28, 1809, by a conoidal ball, which penetrated the neck and chest, perforating the upper lobe of the right lung, comminuting the scap- ula and rib, and lacerating the brachial llexus and veins at the base of the neck. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Macon, North Carolina, on March 29, 1869. Compresses and styptics were used. There was no reaction after injury. He died at 1 o'clock A. M., on March 30, 1869. Death was apparently hastened by venous hjemorrhage within the cavity of the thorax. LXXXIV.—Memorandxmi of a Fatal Gunshot Wound of the Bight Lung. By F. Meacham, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Jonathan J. Johnson, Co, E, 4th United States Infantry, was shot through the right lung on December 2, 1869, by Indians, when about forty miles from Fort Laramie, Wyoming Ter- ritory. He was admitted into the post hospital at the fort, in a moribund condition, and died in about one hour after his arrival. LXXXV.—Memorandum of a Fatal Case of Gunshot Wound of the Bight Lung. By J. E. Semple, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John Halbert, Co. L, 2d United States Artillery, aged 27 j^ears, was accidentally killed on September 13, 1808, by fine shot, which entered the sternum between the third and fourth ribs, and passed into the right lung. LXXXVI.—N'ote of a Case of Suicide. By George A. Benjamin, M, D,, Acting Assistant Surgeon. At the island of San Juan, California, November 30, 1870, First Sergeant Louis Miller, Co. F, 23d United States Infantry, shot himself at eight o'clock in the morning. At this lionr I was called to see him, and found him lying on his bed, with a gunshot wound one and a quarter inches below and to the left of the left nipple, passing through the lung on that side, ranging upward and inward, passing out at a point about midway of the length of the internal edge of the scapula of the same side. This Avound was inflicted by himself with a design of destroying life, as was shown by a written