^EEPOET OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 248 tered. Cold-water dressings were used. The result was entirely successful, tlie patient Laving left the hospital cured, on the expiration of his term of enlistment, November 29., 1870. DCLXXX.—Report of a Fatal Case of Laryngotomy. By A. C. Girard, Assistant Surgeou, U. S. A. Philip Haxel, a private of Co. H, 19th Infantry, reported sick at Baton Rouge, Louisiana, on March 7,1870, and stated that he was beaten on the left temple with a club some days previously whilst in an altercation with another soldier. A cold-water dressing was applied to reduce the swelling, but erysipelatous iuflamumtion appearing on the 9th, he was admitted toliospital. The left cheek and temple were considerably swelled. The general health and appearance of the patient were good. An examination with a probe revealed a comminuted fracture of the zygoma, with probable lesion of the skull. The pupils were natural, pulse 72, bowels confined, and tongue some, what coated. Absolute rest in bed was enjoined, with a nourislung diet, and cold applications of carbolic acid in solution. The administration of aperients, followed by a Solution of quinine and iron, with the application of a poultice to the wound, constituted the remainder of the treatment He did Avell until the evening of tlie 11th, wlien symptoms of tetanus set in. After consultation, one-third of a grain of the extract of Calabar bean, in solution of eighteen minims of Avater, was injected in the region of the left deltoid muscle, and an enema of four ounces of brandy was admin- istered. This treatment was steadily adhered to until the evening of the 15th, when the patient was in immediate danger of suttbcation. The sjiasms had become more violent, there was terrible orthopnoea with cyanosis, and small but frequent pulse. Having decided upon laryngotomy as the only means of saving life in this instance, the patient was laid on a bed and held hy six men, chloro- form being inadmissible, when Assistant Surgeou A. C. Girard opened the thyroid membrane, after having stopped bleeding from some small veins. Immediately on opening a large stream of whiiiped blood issued with great force from the opening, apparently coming from the lungs, and continued to gush forth at each attempt at respiration for full fifteen minutes. Upon the introduction of the tube the air commenced to pass too and fro with great force, but the expectoration of blood con- tinued for one hour. When it abated breathing became fairly established, and the patient felt greatly relieved. The Calabar bean and the stimulating enemata were repeated, together with hypodermic injections of atropine, and of morphia with Calabar bean, but the patient got lewer and lower, and died at noon on the 17th. At the autopsy the body was somewhat emaciated, there was considerable suggillation of the temporal muscle, and the zy gomatic bone was fractured in two places, the fragments being loose but undetached. The meninges on the left temple were somewhat congested. The brain was normal, and the temporal bone intact. The larynx was normal. The lungs were in a liigh state of congestion and oedematous. No ruptured blood-vessel of any size was discovered. The heart and intestines were normal. DGIjKXSI.—Report of a Fatal Case of Laryngotomy. By E. P. Yollum, Surgeon U. S. A. Patrick O'Callaghan, a private of Co. B, 13th Infantry, aged 25, was admitted to the post hospital at Camp Douglas, Utah Territory, on December 10, 1870, suffering from oedema of the glottis and tonsillitis. On the next day the patient becoming cyanosed, and symptoms of suffo- cation setting in about mid-day, the larynx was opened and a tube inserted by Surgeon E. P. VoUum, U. S. A. No anaesthetic was used. After the admission of air through the tube, the patient revived a little, and lived about three-quarters of an hour. At the autopsy, the cutan- eous surface was of a bluish color; the tonsils were so tumefied as to completely overlap the rima glottidis, and the sub-mucous tissue of the epiglottis and that surrounding the brim of the rima glottidis, as well as that covering the base of the tonsils and the membranous fold about the base of the tongue, were boggy, with oedematous effusion. No abscess or pus was found in the vicinity of the tonsils or fauces. The sub-maxillary glands were greatly enlarged, and the areolar tissue of the neck was distended by serous effusion.