279 SURGICAL ESSAYS. is tloiug fliielj", oue of the inside ligatures, tUat of an articular artery, lias broken off short. The popliteal ligature has not yet separated. September 22d: the patient has steadily improved. The tumor of the stump has subsided, and the line of cicatrix is somewhat" depressed. There is still discharge from where the ligature is broken off. It is probable that the knot of this ligature will remain in the stump for some time. Tlie main ligature has not yet come away. I dread pulling, be it ever so gentle, for the ligature thread is fine and very rotten. The patella is freely movable, up and down, to the right and left. The capsule of the joint, as a whole, has adhered strongly to the condyloid surfaces of the femur, and affords a sufficient stay to the connected muscles. September 27th : Kelly was sent away to West Point, New York, this afternoon able to walk on crutches. The only regret is that knots of all the ligatures remain in the stump. I have considered it inexpedient to search for them. On his way to West Point, Kelly was, as I was informed by a letter from him, attacked with what he termed gangrene." Some operation became necessary, and was, I believe, performed at West Point. From what he wrote I understand that this second "operation" did not extend to interference with bones or the remains of the synovial sac. In addition to the foregoing remarks, I subjoin a history of Private David D. Cole, wounded in the left leg at Amelia Conrt-House, April 5, 1805, and operated upon by myself on August 1, 1805, at this general hospital. The leg was much swollen, and there was a great deal of dead bone in it. Patient was greatly weakened by discharge, and prostrated by sympathetic irritation. When the operation was performed it was evident that there was no other way to save life. In operating— yielding to the opinion of a gentleman present that the tumid and discolored tissues about certain fistulous orifices, that gave vent i^osteriorly to discharge from about the dead bone, was not capable of living as part of a flap—I made a very long anteriOT flap. The angles of union of the anterior and posterior flap were too obtuse, so made in consequence of miscalculating the effects of retraction upon the anterior flap. In operating, moreover, I removed the semilunar cartilages, and thus freed the lower part of the capsule of the joint, which was immediately drawn up ; and to this removal is due in great part the extreme retraction presented. There being, however, an abundance of skin- flap to cover the condyles, I closed the stump in the usual manner. At the first dressing, three days later, I removed the sutures at the inner angle and along the centre of the line of coaptation wherever there was strain. The stump had an indolent and weak look. Removal of sutures at the inner angle of the stump disclosed a pearly surface of the internal condyle and bright red surface of the lateral ligament. The anterior flap exhibited a decided tendency to slough. In a few days this slough formed, all the sutures were removed, and the flaps carefully supported with adhesive strips. The angles opened widely after a slough (terminal) of an inch separated. But I relied on the vitality of the yet abundant integumentary tissue in the middle line of the stump. Without further bad symtoms the case progressed favorably, with a copious formation of pus, however, until the third week, when a great abscess was developed under the fascia lata. I do not think this abscess was in any manner connected with the ascending anterior pouch of the synovial sac- After this, as the abscess gradually healed, so did the stump, the general phenomena presented by the patient being favorable, pari passti. In November the patient was discharged from hospital perfectly well. At that time the i)atella was drawn upon the supercondyloid anterior space and fixed there, and the synovial sac appeared wholly obliterated. The integumentary tissue covering the faces of the condyles was well nourished, firmlj^ attached, and capable of sustaining pressure with comfort to the patient. There were no irregular nervous sensations. The patient was fat, and tlie muscles ot his left thigh were well developed. I have received a letter from him since, in which he informs me that he has received a proper artificial leg (supplied, I believe, by Dr. Hudson, of New York), and has nothing to regret in the manner in which the operation was performed. DCCXXXII.—Second Paper on Periosteal Flaps. By the late George M. McGill, Assistant Sur- geon, U. S. A. I have the honor to transmit (Ai^ril 12, 1800) casts of the stumps of Private Josiah Gamble, Co. C, 13th Virginia Infantry; private Church Lewis, Co. B, llGth U. S. C. T., and Private John