132 EEPOET OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE AUMY. 4^ CCCCXVII.—Memorandum of Simple Fractures of the Ribs and Clavicle. By J. V. Artiiuk, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Sergeant Joseph I. Allen, Co. C, 4tli Cavalry, aged 27 years, received in a fall, December 16, 1S70, a fracture of the left ninth and tenth ribs and of the clavicle. He was admitted to the post hos- pital at Fort Mcintosh, Texas, on the same day. Levis's apparatus was applied. He was returned to duty in February, 1871. Feactures of the Upper Extremities.—Of the numerous injuries of this group, particulars of comparatively few cases were reported Several reports will be quoted here, and others may be found in the chapter on operations, further on. Fractures of the Clavicle.—There were five special reports of fractures of the collar bone, besides that on page 131. This accident, common in military as in civil practice, is usually entered on the reports by medical ofiicers without any details. It is desirable that the cause and seat of the fracture, the method of dressing, the duration of treatment, and the degree of deformity left, should be noted on the records. CCCOXVIII.—Bemarlcs on a Case of Fracture of the Clavicle. By P. Middleton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private F. Biirnham, Co. D, 14th Infantry, was admitted to the hospital at Camp Whipple, Arizona Territory, February 2, 1868, with a fracture of the midtUe third of the left clavicle, caused by falling from a mule. The apparatus of Levis* was immediately applied, and continued until February 27th, when the fracture was found to be fairly united, with scarcely' any deformity, and the apparatus was removed and a bandage to support tlie arm was substituted, with instructions to exercise the arm daily. On February 29, 1868, the patient was convalescent. CCCCXIX.—Account of a Fracture of the Clavicle. By A. Heger, Surgeon, U. S. A. At Fort Snelling, Minnesota, February 20, 1870, William Goblke, musician, 20th. Infantry, aged 35 years, received, by an accidental fall, a fracture of the left clavicle. He was admitted to the post hospital the same day. Bandages were applied. He returned to duty March 21, 1870. CCCCXX.—Bemarls on a Case of Fracture of the Clavicle. By C. B. Greenleap, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private F. Hofner, Co. A, 25th Infantry, aged 26 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Taylor Barracks, Louisville, Kentucky, July 27, 1868, with a fracture of the outer third of the left clavicle, received by falling a distance of four feet upon his shoulder, while intoxicated. Fox's apparatus was applied, which, although it did not secure complete reduction, kept the shoukler and arm fixed. On July 31st, Fox's apparatus was removed, and a flgure-of-eight bandage, with axillary pad and sling used. There was some ecchymosis over the fiacture, which was ordered to be rubbed with a stimulating liniment. On August 21st, callus had formed, and the bandages Avere removed. There was shortening of the arm, but no great deformity. He was returned to duty October 2, 1868. CCOCXXI.—Account of a Case of Fracture of the Clavicle. By Irving C. Eossb, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private James Eeynolds, of Battery A, 3d Artillery, was taken on sick report at Fort Mon- roe, Virginia, February 16, 1870, having sustained an oblique fracture near the middle of the left * Dr. Richard J. Levis described Lis apparatus for fracture of the clavicle iu the Amcrimn Journal of the Medical Sciences, Vol. XXAVI, p. 100. It is also figured and commended in Professor Gross's Si/stem of Siirycry, 4th ed., 1866, Vol. I, p. 900. [The attention of medical officers is invited to Specimen 5302, Surgical Series, A. M. M., which demonstrates the usual modes of distortion and deformity in nine united fractures of the clavicle.—Ed.]