10 REPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. XVII.—Memorandxm of a Oumhot Perforation of the Brain, fatal almost immediately. By Dr. W. Deal, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Dorrall Jfalbrow, a recrnit of the 39tli United States Infantry, aged 21 years, was killed October 14,1867, at Greenville, Louisiana, by the accidental discharge of a musket in the hands of a fellow- soldier, the missile striking the right side of the frontal bono and passing through the brain. XVIII.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Perforation of the Skull. By John H. Bartholf, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Robert F , Co. E, 11th United States Infantry, was accidentally killed at Camp Grant, near Richmond, Virginia, on May 11, 1808, by the accidental discharge of a breech-loading musket, in the hands of a comrade, at the distance of six or eight feet. The missile, a conical rifle musket ball, entered the face through the upper lip, three-quarters of an inch to the right of the median line, taking a course directly backward, on a line drawn immediately under the lobe of the ear, emerging from the neck at a point two and three-quarters inches back of the lobe of the car, and two and a quarter inches in front of the j)osterior median line. The Avound of entrance was small, and stellate in form, having three radiating lines. The wound of exit was very large, half an inch in front of the lobe of the ear. There was a slit made by some of the teeth and fragments of bone forcing an exit there. On dissection, the superior maxillary bone was found torn to small bits, but little more than the nasal process and the inner wall of the antrum remaining in situ. The floor of the orbit was broken up; the malar bone was broken, and its body displaced outward ; its fi'ontal process, separated from the body, was broken off from the frontal bone; the inferior max- illa was fractured across the body an inch anterior to the angle, and the bone from there to the articulation was completely broken up ; the great wing of the sphenoid on the right side was greatly broken; the petrous portion of the temporal bone was broken off and into two pieces, and displaced backward; the mastoid jHocess was to a small extent broken, and a fragment just internal to it, about an inch long and the same iu width, entirely detached. Thus the internal and middle ears were quite broken open; the occipital and right parietal bones broken; a fragment two and a quarter inches wide and three inches long, involving these two bones and the posterior inferior corner of the temporal, was driven back- ^ ward, leaving a fissure along one side three inches long, ^ and more than a sixteenth of an inch wide. A portion, of the right transverse process of the atlas was broken ofi", and the right vertebral artery was cut across. The internal carotid artery was severed at an inch and three- quarters above its origin, and the external carotid at a point a quarter of an inch higher, or just below its bifur- I'lo. 2.—Segment of tho slaill, showius Kiiushot frac- ■ j. -j^ j_ j_ • i i i iiij.ii i „„ tures of the occipital ano petrous hon^.-spec. 5335, ^atiou luto its two terminal brauchcs, aud all the branches Sect. I, A. M. M. of the last-named vessels below the iilace indicated, except the superior thyroid and the lingual, were divided. The internal jugular vein was cut ofi' at a l)oint corresponding to the division of the internal carotid artery and the external jugular audits branches. The right pneumogastric nerve was severed opposite the upper part of the ramus of the lower jaw^ The brain was not touched by the bullet. The pathological specimens were transmitted to the Army Medical Museum, and are illustrated by the wood-cut. XIX.—Memoranda of Three Cases of Fatal Gunshot Perforations of the Sicull. Private John Miller, Co. H, 6th United States Cavalry, aged 26 years, received gunshot wounds of the skull, right arm, and left hand, in a fight with desperadoes, near Sulphur Springs, Texas, August 14, 1S6S. He was taken to tho post hospital at Sulphur Springs, where he died on August 15, 1808. Acting Assistant Surgeon B. ]>. Miles reported the case. I'rivate William Fox, Co. C, 4th United States Cavalry, aged 25 years, was wounded accident-