221 EXCISIONS m THE UPPEE EXTEEMITIES. DOXVI.—Report of a Case in loMch a Portion of the Maxilla teas Bemoved. By P. Middleton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Joseph Smith, Troop I, 8tli Cavalrj-, was shot by a comrade at Camp Whipple, Arizona Territory, November 17, 18G7. The missile, a conoidal ball, entered over the bridge of the nose, and taking an oblique direction, fractured the maxillary bone of the right side. He was admitted to post hospital in a state of syncope. The excessive haemorrhage was controlled by pluggiug the wound with lint saturated with liquor of the persulphate of iron. The patient grew weak from loss of blood, the face became puffy and swollen, and part of the fractured bone projected into the mouth, preventing the mastication of food. On November 28th a part of the maxillary bone of the right side, contaiiiing molar and bicuspid teeth, was removed. The missile could not be found. Haemorrhage was controlled hj plugging. The patient did well until December 3d, when he complained of pain in the joints and back, also of slight numbness of feet and hands. These symptoms increased until December 10th, Avheu the aniesthesia in both feet and legs np to the knee was complete.' There was also partial loss of sensation in both hands; the wound was nearly healed, appetite good, and secretions normal. Under a magneto-electric treatment, with iron, quinine, strychnia, and iodide of potassium he gradually improved, being- able to walk on December 20,1867. Sensations were almost normal again. DCXYII.—Note of a Case in ivMch Fragments of the Upper Jaw ivere Excised. By W. H. King-, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Samuel Walker, Co. D, 3d Infantry, aged 28 years, was wounded on November 13, 18G8, by a conoidal ball in the right side of the face. On the same day he was admitted to the hospital at Fort Zara, Kansas, where fragments of the upper jaw were excised. He was returned to duty in December, 1868. EXCISIONS OF THE BONES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITIES. Excisions of the Sones of the Sand.'—Six cases were reported. DCXVIII.—Accormt of an Excision of Metacarpal Bones, having a Fatal Result. By P. H. Bkown, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Jerry Hewes, Co. A, 9th Colored Troops, aged 24 years, was wounded on September 1, 1867, in the right hand. He was admitted to the regimental hospital at Eort Stockton, Texas, where an excision of metacarijal bones, was performed. Pyaemia supervened, and death occurred Sei)tember 15, 1867. DOXIX.—Memorandum of a Case in tchich a Portion of the Metacarpal Bone and Phalanx icere Excised. By E. H. Bowman, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Thomas H. Whipi^er, Co. A, 21th Infantrj^, was accidentally wounded in the left hand at Fort Bliss, Texas, March 19, 1870. The missile passed through the anterior portion of the hand, destroying the articulation of the middle finger, and shattering the metacarpal bone for one and a half inches above the joint. He was admitted to post hospital. The injury was i^owder- burned, but free from swelling. Chloroform was administered, and one inch and a half of metacarpal bone and a portion of the first phalanx, making two inches in all, were excised. Simple dressings, with application of carbolic acid, were used. The patient recovered rapidly, and was returned to duty on May 16, 1870. DCXX.—Account of an Operation for Paronychia. By Benjamin James, Hospital Steward, U. S. A. Sergeant Charles Krouse, Co. G, 32d Infantry, aged 31 years, was admitted to the hospital at Camp Goodman, Arizona Territory, on January 1, 1869, with a whitlow on the left thumb. The