REPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 276 Case 2.^Cbarles Zeichler, a ]M ivate of Co. D, 18th Infantry, aj4ed 22 years, was struck by light- ning July 12, 1870. He was admitted to hospital at McPherson Barracks, Atlanta, Georgia, on the following day. Stimulating liniments and electricity were applied. He was returned to duty September IG, 1870. DOCXXX.—Report of a Case of Lightning-StroJce. By C. H. Alden, Surgeon, U. S. A. Elias W '—, a quartermaster's employe, aged about GO years, was struck by lightning, near Fort D. A. Russell, Wyoming Territory, on June 24, 18G9. At the time of this occurrence he was on horseback, lierding Government mules, about a mile east of the post, and was exposed to a violent thunder storm. The horse was instantly killed, but no wound could be discoveretl. The rider was shortly afterward found lying insensible by his side, and in about fifteen minutes was brought to hospital. On admission he was still insensible, and could not be aroused by loud calling; his eyes were closed, he was restless, and, tossing about his limbs, resisted eflbrts to remove his clothes, which were very wet. The surface and extremities were cold; the puL^e small. There was a superficial wound of the scalp, about two inches and a half long, just above and behind the right ear, ranging upward and backward, but nearly vertical, and having the appearance of being made by the point of some sharp instrument. A chain or series of large, irregular vesicated si)ots extended from below the right ear to the front of the neck, and down the chest and abdomen to the penis. There was a similar spot on the ui)iier and inner surface of left thigh, with slight super- ficial wounds like abrasion on the outer and middle surfaces of both thighs. His felt hat was very much torn on the right side, the leather lining inside being burned. His shirt was somewhat torn in front, and the pantaloons were torn in positions corresponding to wounds on the thighs. On applying heat to the extremities the patient was wrapt in blankets, and a small quantity of whiskey administered, which was swallowed without difficulty. In the afternoon the pulse grew somewhat fuller and the surface warmer, when slight vomiting occurred. In the evening he became more restless; got up from his bed and muttered a few inarticulate words; passed water in a close stool. During the night he lay for the most part quietly, but had occasional attacks of restlessness, and passed his fieces and urine in bed. On June 25th his condition was much the same as on the previ- ous evening; he was generally quiet, but occasionally grew restless ; pulse was somewhat fuller, and surface warmer than when admitted, but reaction not very decided; passed his urine involuntarily, and a little watery fluid oozed from the right ear. AVeak milk-punch and beef-tea were ordered every two hours. Toward noon respiration became somewhat blowing, and no change was apparent in the pulse or otherwise. There was occasional restlessness. Dry cups were ordered to the back of the neck and sinapisms to the extremities. In the afternoon he opened his eyes, looking around somewhat intelligently for a few moments, but did not speak, and again became entirely unconscious. At 7.30 P. M. the pulse was 72; respiration 30; temperature 97. At midnight he began to swallow with difficulty. On June 26th, at 7 A. M., his condition was apparently unchanged from the last evening; pulse 90; respiration 30. The dry cups to the nape of the neck were ordered to be repeated. He remained in the same condition until he died at 12 M. At ii post-mortem, eight hours afterward, rigor mortis was complete, having come on about 5 o'clock. The wounds were found as described on admission, the scalp wound being very superficial, scarcely extending through the skin, and the underlying muscles somewhat infiltrated with blood, but not decided. The periosteum and cranium were apparently intact. On removing the calvaria there appeared to be a very slight fissure on the inner surface corresponding in position to the external wound, but so slight that its existence was almost doubtful. Between the bone and dura nuiter was a hard, black, circular clot, about one-fourth of an inch in thickness and two inches in diameter. Opposite the centre of the clot was a minute orifice in the membrane. The brain under this clot Avas broken up and mixed with blood for about two inches in diameter, and extending into the lateral ventricles. The pia mater was injected, and the ventricles filled with bloody serum. There was no fracture at the base of brain. The thoracic and abdominal viscera exhibited nothing abnormal, excepting the heart, which was loaded externally with fat, its cavities being quite empty. [A pathological specimen, which is numbered 5585 of the Surgical Section, showing a portion of the brain, temporal bone, and dura mater, was contributed to the Army Medical Museum along with this report.]