35 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THF CHEST. a space of some tliirteen inches from right to left, from wound of entrance to wound of exit, was found in a shattered condition about thirteen feet from the injured man. The pathological speci- mens, consisting of the heart, perforated lung, splintered humerus and ball, were forwarded to the Army Medical Museum. OIL—Note of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Aorta. By W. J. Piper, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. At Baton Eouge, Louisiana, December 20,1867, Private Herman Summers, Co. E, 20th United States Infantry, received an accidental pistol shot wound, the ball entering the arch of tlie aorta. He was admitted to post hospital immediately after the reception of the injury and died on the same day. CHI.—Extract from Remarks on Monthly Report of Side and Wounded from Fort lleKavctt, Texas, By Bedford Sharpe, Acting Assistant Surgeon. On February 2,1870, Corporal Albert Marshall, Co. F, 9th United States Cavalry, was murdered by desperadoes, five miles below Menardville, thirty-five miles below this post, while guarding a prisoner. His remains were brought to the post for interment on the afternoon of the 3d, when a post-mortem examination was held at the post hospital. It was conducted by Acting Assistant Surgeon A. De Laffre. The following are the notes in the case: * * The ball, supposed to have been from a Winchester rifle, entered the thoracic cavity on right side, about one inch above the right nipple, passed through the fifth rib at its articulation with the sternum, passing through right ventricle of the heart and through the left fifth rib, and made an exit at left axilla, reentered the left arm, fractured the humerus two inches below the neck, and came out on the other side- near the insertion of the deltoid. OrV.—Memorandum of a Gunshot Wound of the Chest. By Donald Jackson, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. At Fort Clark, Texas, on August 1, 1869, Private James Matthews, Co. G, 9th United States Cavalry, aged 20 years, was shot by a sentinel, either intentionally or through gross carelessness. The bullet entered between the third and fourth ribs, above and a little external to the left nipple, passing obliquely through the thorax, and lodging beneath the skin over the right scapula. Death was instantaneous. The heart or great vessels were doubtless wounded. No autopsy is recorded. CV.—Memorandum of a Gtmshot Wound of the Heart. By Washington Matthews, Acting Assist- ant Surgeon. Private John T. Vane, Co. I, 22d United States Infantry, was shot by one of a band of hostile Sioux, about four miles from Fort Eice, Dakota Territory, while on duty with a party of wood- cutters, and at a short distance from the rest. No others were wounded. His death was instanta- neous. An autopsy revealed that the ball had entered the fourth intercostal space near the left nipple, and pierced both ventricles of the heart, about midway between base and apex. It did not effect an exit from the body. CVI.—Minute of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Heart. By Dr. J. B. Purcell, Acting Assistant Surgeon. In August, 1867, James Brown, Co. D, 8th United States Infantry, quartermaster's sergeant of the post at Wilmington, North Carolina, was confined for stealing from the Government, and made his escape from prison. He was overtaken by a patrol, and, not surrendering when commanded to do so several times, was fired upon with fatal effect. The ball entered the right side between the fifth and sixth ribs, traversed the body through both lungs and the heart, passed out at the left side, entered at the bend of the left elbow, destroying the joint, and lodged in the cellular tissue near the external angle, spent.