187 AMPUTATIONS OF THE AEM. of bis own horse and cook his own food during that period), and the yevy unfavorable condition of his arm, was very much against his recovery. The difficulty of detecting the extent of the fracture on account of the swollen condition of the arm, and the unhealthy appearance of his shoulder at one time, almost induced me to amputate at the shoulder-joint; and after amputating when I did, I was fearful of the invasion of gangrene. He made a slow but good recovery. Perhaps more of his arm might have been saved, as subsequent dissection showed that the fracture did not extend as high as was suspected. If it had been taken off lower down, I think extensive sloughing would have occurred." DXXXIX.—Report of an Amputation of the Ann. By T. P. Azpell, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Ellis B. Eobinson, general-service recruit, aged 26 years, was wounded by the prema- ture discharge of a brass cannon at David's Island, New York Harbor, on June 6, 1868, while acting as number one in firing a salute. He was admitted to the post hospital, when, it being found that the right humerus, radius and ulna, and wrist-joint were fractured, and that there was much contusion, with evident laceration of the vessels, he was at once rendered insensible with two parts ether and one chloroform, and the arm was amputated about four inches above the elbow-joint by " the three-quarter lateral flap operation, it being thought advisable not to make the flaj)S entirely lateral, in order to avoid contused tissue, and give a greater length of stump." Simple dressings were applied. The excessive pain continuing after the operation, an anodyne was given. A nutritious but non-stimulating diet was ordered. The pain did not cease until the next morning, j)reventing sleep. On June 8th, the bowels not having moved since the injury, an injec- tion was given. On the 9th, the bandages and lint were removed for the first time, and cold-water dressings were applied. About two inches of the posterior portion of the incision had united by . first intention; considerable sloughing had commenced on the anterior portion of the flaps, and the severe injury to the skin was evident from the sphacelated a^jpearance of the stump and the discoloration extending to the axilla and chest. Milk punch was now added to his diet. On the 10th, the stump was washed with a diluted solution of chlorinated soda; and on the 11th, the silk sutures apparently increasing the tendency to slough, silver wire was substituted. On the 12th, most of the slougli came away on the dressing, showing a healthy granulating surface. On July 1st, the ligature was removed, and nitrate of silver was daily applied, to exuberant granulations, until July 30th, when the stump had entirely healed, with amjile covering to the bone. " The sloughing, in this case, appeared to be very materially diminished, and almost suspended, by the use of the chlorinated mixture and wire suture—so much so, that the improv^ement in the condition of the stump seemed evident in the course of twenty-four hours." In August, 1868, the patient was transferred to another command. DXL.—Report on an Amputation of the Arm and Fore-Arm. By W. Matthews, M. D., Acting- Assistant Surgeon. Private Jacob Schubach, Co. F, 22d Infantry, while firing a salute, July 4, 1870, at Fort Stevenson, Dakota Territory, was wounded by the premature explosion of the cartridge he was ramming down at the time. The right fore-arm was torn off, and the remainder of the limb was scorched and lacerated in the severest manner up to the axilla. A portion of the left hand was also torn away, and the remainder burned to the wrist. The right side of the face, the right eye, and the entire chest were also badly scorched. On being taken to the hospital and chloroformed, the arm was amputated in the upper third, very close to the shoulder. There was great difficulty in finding sufficient sound flesh to make a stump, and a portion of the scorched tissue in the axilla had to be included in one of the flaps. The left fore-arm was amputated above the wrist. In the right arm suppuration did not commence until after the fifth day, when carbolic-acid lotion was applied, a small portion of the axillary flap having become mortified before that time. The opera- tion was followed by great prostration, and the patient's condition, for seven or eight days, was very doubtful. July 31: He was able to walk around, and in excellent sjurits, and the stumps were healing finely. On August 13, 1870, he was transferred to Fort Sully, Dakota Territory, perfectly able to stand the journey.