KEPOKT OF SUKGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 72 the patient, he was removed to a bed arranged for him in a wheeled litter, and the leg placed on an inclined plane. On the thirty-fifth day this w^as changed for a starch bandage. He died on the forty-first day after receiving the injury, from pyiemia. The discharge the day preceding the application of the starch bandage had changed from its healthy hue and consistence to a grumous, fetid character. The imst-mortem revealed considerable attempt at union, and the limb in uearlj^ the natural position. It is thought more favorable results would have been attained except for the moral, and perhaps physical, effects of the surrounding disease. Fig', la.—Gmi-sliot Iracture of the upper third of tlio left femur. SiJec. 5663, Sect. I, A. M. M. CCXLV.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Fracture of the Femur, with Fatal Result, treated at Fort Fetterman, Wyoming Territory. By J. Basil Girard, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John W. Keller, Co, H, 4th Infantry, aged 21 years, of temperate habits and fair con- stitution, was wounded in the left thigh, on December 22, 18G9, by the accidental discharge of a Springfield musket in the hands of a comrade. At the time of the accident he was sitting- on the edge of his bunk in the company barrack-room, with his right thigh tlexed at right angles with the trunk and sustaining the weight of the body, and the left limb stretched and half flexed at the hip joint. The shot was fired from behind, at a distance of about five yards, the ball entering the limb on the outside of the gluteal region, five inches from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and issuing on the front of the thigh, seven inches below the same process, fractured and com- minuted the femur in its course. The man was immediately brought to the hospital in a collapsed state, suft'ering acute pain'from the action of the sharp, pointed spiculse of the shat- tered bone. Upon examination the hfemorrhage was found to have been moderate, but owing to the prostrate condition of the patient further x^roceedings were postponed until the next day; in the meantime he was put to bed, a sufiflcient dose of mor- phia administered to allay suffering, and one ounce of brandy ordered every hour until reaction was brought about. When seen again, late in the afternoon, he had fully reacted, felt quite strong and comfortable, and spoke confidently of his future recovery. He slept well diu-ing the night and awoke in excellent coudi tion. On the morning of the 23d an anaesthetic was administered and the wound examined. The orifice of entrance was sufficiently enlarged to allow the passage of the index fingers from each orifice down to the broken bone. The comminution was very great along the track of the ball. The lower fragment presented an oblique line of fracture and moved in accordance with all the motions impressed to the limb, showing that the injury did not extend further downward. The ui»per fragment was immovable, contained both trochanters, and did not appear to be broken or fissured in any way. Having removed all the loose fragments of bone and foreign substances, among which was a piece of the ball weighing seventy grains, the administration of chloroform was stopped, the patient placed on a bed with an unyielding bottom, and w^eight and pulley exten- sion applied to the limb, counter-extension being made by raising the foot of the bed four inches. The thigh itself was left free from splints or bandages so as not to interfere with future swelling and (lis(tharges. Cold-water dressing was applied to the wound. The patient bore the action of the chloroform well, and was (piite comforrable the rest of the day. His condition varied but little until the evening of the 2!)th, when he complained of great pain in the wounded limb. The wound commenced to discharge fetid pus in large quantity. He was very restless, and disarranged the limb, on account of which his bed was thoroughly cleaned and newly arranged, and a long side splint applied from the lower ribs down to the loot, in order to retain the limb on a line with the body. Brandy and morphia were administered. He slept well during the night, but, on the morning of the 2!»th, a profuse hu'inorrhage occurred, and, before it could be stoi)ped, from two to three jnnts of I)lood were lost. Conq»resses, wet with iiciuid persuli)ha(e of iron, finally arrested the bleeding. Stimulants were given freely, ))ut the ])atient sank and died in one hour after the occurrenc e of the