74 EEPORT OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. the bone. He was adinitted from tlie post hospital at Fort SiU, Indian Territory, on December 13, 1869. The treatment consisted of simple dressings and poultices, and removal of fragments of bone. He was discharged from service on surgeon's certificate of disability, on March 11, 1870. COL.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Fracture of the Femur. By G. H. GuNN, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A, Private Joseph Phillips, Co. H, 9th Cavalry, aged 26 years, was wounded September 22, 1870, by a conoidal ball, which fractured the left femur, at middle third. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Quitman, Texas, soon after the reception of the injury. The limb was placed in a fracture-box, until November 26th, and simple dressings were api)lied. At the date of this rejiort the case was doing well. There were twenty-three special reports of gun-shot flesh wounds of the thigh, all the cases resulting favorably, and five reports of grave and fatal lesions of the great vessels or nerves. OCLI.—Account of a Gunshot Wound of the Thigh. By B. E. Fryer, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Musician William Corin, Co. B, 38th Infantry, accidentally received, on September 17, 1867, a slight gunshot wound of the right thigh from a conoidal ball. He was admitted from the garrison on the same day to the post hospital at Fort Harker, Kansas. The treatment consisted of simple dressings. He was returned to duty on October 1, 1867. CCIAI.—Account of a Gunshot Flesh-Wound of the Thigh. By W. E. SAVAGE, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private George Coleman, Co. G, 117th Colored Troops, aged 25 years, was accidentally wounded on August 3, 1867, by a conoidal pistol ball, in the centre of the vastus externus muscle of the right leg. The missile passed ui)ward and backward forty-five degrees, and lodged in the centre of the adductor longns muscle, from which j)lace it was cut out. He was admitted from Brownsville, Texas, to the post hospital at Brazos Santiago, on August 11,1867. Simple dressings were applied to the wound. He was mustered out of the service on August 14, 1867. CCLIIL—Mention of a Case of Gunshot Flesh- Wound of the Thigh. By John T. King, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Elias Simpson, Co. B, 40th Infantry, aged 23 years, received a gunshot wound on Feb- ruary 13, 1869. A small conoidal ball entered the posterior portion of the thigh, passed in a direct course almost entirely through. He was admitted to the post hospital at Goldsborough, North Caro- lina, on February 13, 1869. Ball extracted through counter opening. He was discharged April 2, 1869. CCLTV.—Mention of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Thigh. By W. R. Steinmetz, Assistant Sur- geon, U. S. A. Corporal Henry E. Taylor, Co. E, 24th Infantry, aged 22 years, received a gunshot wound of the lower third of the right thigh, on December 24, 1869. He was admitted from quarters, on December 25th, to the post hospital at Fort Grillin, Texas, and was returned to duty on February 2, 1870.