GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE FACE. 17 XXXVlir.—l^ote of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Face. By Eeese B, Bekky, Acting Assistant Snrgeou. Sergeant John Howard, Co. K, 16th United States Infantry, was admitted to the post hospital at Corinth, Mississippi, September 18, 1869, with a gunshot wound of the face, received while on duty, making an arrest. The missile, a ball from a Navy revolver, penetrated the left nasal bone and emerged at a point about one inch anterior to, and on a line with, the lowest point of the right ear. Projecting and other loose fragments of bone were removed, the htemorrhage arrested, and cold-water dressings applied. The patient was returned to duty October, 1869. 'X'KXIX..—Extract from the Monthly Side Report at Fort Macon, North Carolina, March, 1869, describing the peculiar Course of a Muslcet-Ball. By Elliott Coues, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Downie, Co. A, 8th United States Infantry, was accidentally shot and instantly killed by a sentinel on guard. The autopsy showed the following singular course of the bullet: The ball entered the mouth from the left side, without touching the lips, aud impinged upon the inferior maxilla at about the middle of the right horizontal ramus, shattering the bone into several pieces without breaking or knocking out any teeth. The laceration of the right side of the tongue gave unequivocal evidence that the ball impinged upon the inside of the jaw-bone. It then glanced, or, to speak in all probability more correctly, rebounded, and struck the inside of the alveolar border of the right superior maxilla somewhat above the level of the teeth. Still farther deflected from its original course, it then passed straight upward through the palate and nasal passages into and through the left orbit, close past the inner wall of the latter, struck the orbital plate of the frontal bone into the left anterior lobe of the cerebrum, which was by this means extensively lacerated. It is probable that the ball itself did not enter the brain, its force being by this time expended. It was found curiously furrowed and distorted, lying in the left orbit, upon the eyeball, which had escaped laceration. The battered ball is shown in the wood-cut. Fig. C—Musket ball battered by impact on bones of the face. Spec. 5564, Sect. I, A. M. M. XL.—Report of a Gunshot Wound of the Face. By Peter Moffat, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private B , Co. H, 23d United States Infantry, was admitted on March 24, 1870, to hospital at Fort Boise, Idaho Territorj^, with a gunshot wound of the face. The missile entered a little to the left of the median line of chiu, almost below the angle of the mouth; ranged almost directly backward, comminuted the lower half of the inferior maxillary bone without destroying the continuity of the arch of the jaw, passed through the soft parts below, and lodged at some point deep in the neck. He fainted from the shock and loss of blood, but reacted aud managed to make his way to the hospital. The surgeon enlarged the wound of entrance and removed fragments of comminuted bone. A portion of the leaden missile-was extracted; but a channel was found to extend still deeper toward the left side of the cervical spine. It was not deemed safe to pursue the remaining portions of the ball. A tent saturated with carbolic acid was introduced, and simple dressings were applied. The portion of lead extracted was flattened and jagged in form, and weighed thirty grains. A ball of the size of the one by which the wound was inflicted Aveighed eighty grains, leaving a balance of flfty grains to represent the portion still in the wound. Considerable irritation of the larynx, causing cough and expectoration, supervened. These symptoms improved, and on March 30th the case was progressing favorably. No indication requiring a search for the ball arose, aud in May, 1870, the man was returned to duty, the frag^ ment of bullet remaining lodged. XLI.—Report of a Gunshot Fracture of the Lower Maxilla. By Edward Cowles, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Case.—Private Charles Wicks, Co. C, 26th United States Infantry, aged 20 years, was shot in the face by a Mexican, at Brownsville, Texas, May o, 1868. The ball entered a little to the left 3