283 CONCLUDING OBSEEVATIONS. importance of the fullest description of autopsies and of pathological specimens forwarded to the Army Medical Museum. Some medical officers have performed creditable surgical operations on citizens, but have excluded such cases from their reports. Such additions to the surgical data of the Army should be forwarded in supplementary reports, otherwise the records of the office will imperfectly represent the work accomplished by the medical staff. On page 86, the results of the gunshot wounds that were not subjected to operations are summed up, and, on page 113, a summary is given of the results of the incised, punctured, lacerated, and contused wounds, comprising some remarkable recoveries after visceral protrusions and punctures of the alimentary canal. Summaries of the results of simple and compound fractures and of dislocations have been given in connection with the abstracts of cases of those injuries (pp. 114, 143). Matters of interest respecting arrow-wounds are comprised in the reports from pages 144 to 163. A few abstracts of cases of poisoned wounds, and of burns and frost-bites, close this chapter. The chapter on surgical operations, commencing (p. 170) with a tabular statement of the minor amputations, concludes (p. 218) with a favorable exhibit of the results of the major operations. Those at the shoulder and knee-joint had a larger measure of success than usually rewards the efforts of surgeons, and the small ratio of mortality in the thigh amputations (38.5) is exceptional. Two of the amputations in the thigh were of special interest as performed for the consequences of gunshot fractures of the femur, inflicted five and seven years previously. The pathological specimens furnished from these cases, very imperfectly represented by the wood-cuts (Figs. 41, 42), are very instructive. There was a successful case of amputation of the fore-arms and of the legs in one patient, and one of the two exarticulations at the hip had a successful issue.* The results of the amputations, according as they were performed for injury or disease, or in the primary, intermediary, or secondary stages, are summed up on p. 217. Under the head of excisions are included two examples of successful trephining in depressed fractures of the skull, for symptoms of compression, following on the second and third days, respectively, the reception of blows. An excision of portions of the upper and lower maxillaries resulted fatally. Two other operations on the facial bones, recorded in this section, appear to have been extractions of splinters from gunshot fractures rather * In a letter to Assistant Surgeon General C. H. Crane, Dr. J. Fayrer, of Calcutta, had tlie goodness to furnish abstracts of eight cases of amputations at the hip occurring in his practice, kindly hoping they might be of service in the further investigation into this important subject by this office. Five of the cases have already been published. (Clinical Surgery in India, pp. 630, 609, 666, and Medical Times and Gazette, 1867, p. 270, 1868, p. 657.) The series is as follows: 1. Burman, aged 30, primary amputation for gunshot injury. Death from tetanus. 2. Ashgur, aged 16, re-amputation. Recovery. 3. Hadji, aged 36, re-amputation. Death in four days. 4. Hindoo, aged 25, amputation at the hip-joint for cancer at the knee. Death in 13 days. 5. Hindoo, aged 21, thigh-amputation for injury, re-amputation at the hip. Death in 26 days. 6. Hindoo, aged 55, primary amputation at the hip for shark-bite. Death in six hours. 7. Bupeer, aged 20, cancer of right thigh, amputation at the hip. Death in five days. 8. Lieutenant H., aged 21, secondary amputation for gunshot wound. Death in a fevf hours. Dr. P. F. Eve j ecords (Eichnioud and Louisville Medical Journal, Vol. XII, p. 370) an amputation at the hip for caries and anchylosis, terminating fatally in twenty-five hours. Dr. N. S. Lincoln has recently performed a siiccessful re-amputation at the hip, at Providence Hospital, Washington, in the case of W. Cotter, aged 32, for necrosis following jirimary amputation for gunshot fracture performed seven years ago.