167 BURNS AND SCALDS. BURNS, SCALDS, AND FROST BITES. Burns and Soalds.—Under this head two thousand and three cases were reported, nearly all of trivial character, and special reports were not made of any particular cases. Eeost Bites.—Some cases of this class, involving amputations, will be found among the reports of operations. Others, in which special reports were made, are inserted here. Four of these were fatal. OCCOXCIII.—Account of a Fatal Case of Frost Bite. By J. B, Gibard, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. At Fort Fred'Steele, Wyoming Territory, December 9,1870, Private Eicbard Bowen, Co. A, 13tb Infantry, aged 29, an babitual drunkard, was detailed as a member of a wood ijarty ordered to the mountains to iirocure timber. Previous to starting, be and a comrade secretly procured a quantity of wbiskey, of wbieb tbey partook freely during tbe day to sucb an extent as to become considerably intoxicated. Toward evening, owing probably to tbeir condition, they strayed from tbe wagon- train, and lost tbeir way. Tbey remained during tbe nigbt near a stream on tbe bank of wbicb tbey bad built a fire, and Bowen, wbo during tbe day bad waded tbrougb tbe stream, filling bis boots witb water, found it impossible to pull tbem off", tbe water in tbem baving become frozen. Tbe next morning tbey returned to the post, marching eight or ten miles, and Avere both admitted to tbe post hospital. Bowen's boots baving been cut off, bis feet were found frozen solidly to tbe ankle-joints. Two nurses were immediately set to work rubbing tbe feet with snow, while internal stimulants were administered to prevent collapse. After two hours of AUgorous friction and cold water pediluvia, circulation was restored in the skin and motion in tbe joints of the toes became practicable. The feet were then wrapped in cloths wet witb whiskey and surrounded with several layers of cotton wadding secured by bandages. Tbe patient was put to bed and morphia adminis- tered. He passed a comfortable night, and tbe next day, ui^on removing tbe dressings, the feet were found in a very satisfactory condition. The toes were all moveable at tbe patient's will, and the soles alone looked dark and livid. He felt as well as usual, comi)lained of no pain, and enjoyed a moderate appetite. Tbe aijplication of whiskey to tbe frozen parts was continued, and quinine witb tincture of chloride of iron ordered three times daily. He remained in nearly the same condition till the 15tb, when the alcoholic lotion was replaced by lime water and olive oil liniment, on account of tbe removal of the epidermis from some portions of the feet. On tbe afternoon of tbe 15th his appetite and strength commenced to fail. When seen on the morning of the 16th be was remark- ably weaker and his features wore a typhoid expression. His legs were found oedematous up to tbe knees, and tbe feet were less moveable than usual. Milk punch was immediately ordered three times a day, and beef tea at short and regular intervals. He steadily grew worse, and died on tbe morning of the 17tb. CCCGXCIY.—Bemarlcs on a Fatal Case of Frost Bite. By A. A. Woodhull, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Sergeant William Earl, Troop G, 7th Cavalry, of robust physique, and usually a temperate man, visited the neighboring town of Las Anima while intoxicated, after tattoo, on tbe night of