SIMPLE AND COMPOUND FEACTUEES. 119 stertor. Cold-water dressiugs were applied, and when he had improved somewhat, he was con- veyed to the hospital at Cami) Grant, near Eichmond, Virginia. After three hours uo cerebral symptoms remained with the exception of a severe headache. On October 23d, a creasote paste was applied to exclude air; a clot filled the wound. The patient continued to imijrove. On November 6th all cerebral symptoms had ceased, and on the 17th Cross was returned to duty; the wound had healed with an irregular linear cicatrix. CGGLXXXY.—Account of a Fatal Fracture of the Slaill. By J. M. Best, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon, Private J. H. Danney, Co. F, 25th Infantry, aged 21 years, died at Von Schrader Barracks, Paducah, Kentucky, on December 8, 1868, from the effects of a blow upon the head with a club. At the autopsy, a fracture was found extending from the orbit of the left eye, running upward nearly two inches through the frontal bone, then ranging backward in a crescentic shape through the left parietal bone to the occiput; then transversely forward to the orbit, continuing into the floor of the orbit, leaving in this space detached bone nearly two inches in width and four inches long, which was taken out with the fingers. Upon opening the membranes witliin this space a clot of grumous blood was found, amounting to nearly three ounces. [Specimen not forwarded.] CCCLXXXVI.—Report of a Case of Compound Comminuted Fracture of the Slmll. By F. W. Elbrey, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private James C. Dixon, Troop H, 5th Cavalry, was injured at Fort McPherson, Nebraska, by the falling of a blacksmith shop, a beam striking him on the forehead in the median line, between the frontal eminences, the blow jiroducing a compound comminuted fracture, which extended down to the nasal eminence. In the upper part of the wound both tables were involved, and the fragments much deijressed. In the lower part, the frontal sinus was laid open, but the inner table only fissured and not depressed ; the frontal bone was also comminuted at its left external angular process. Notwithstanding the greatness of the injury, neither symptoms of concussion of the brain nor compression occurred. He was at once conveyed to the ])ost hospital, where the loose fragments were removed and the depressed bone elevated. On the fourth day, considerable ecchymosis became manifest near the wound over the left orbital ridge, but uo effusion of blood appeared under the conjunctiva of the eye. On the eigiitli day, a suppurative fever was ushered in by a severe chill, which subsided on the 6th. Dnring its exist- ence, both pupils became dilated and irresponsive to light, but with its subsidence they returned to a normal condition. On the thirty-fourth day, absorption of the ecchymosis had taken place, and this wound, as well as the main one over the forehead, was in a favorable condition for healing, the granulations being healthy, and cicatrization having begun. No symptoms of meningeal or brain lesion had occurred. His treatment consisted in absolute rest, milk diet, cathartics, water dress- ings for the wounds, and cold compresses for the head. The pathological specimen, consisting of four fragments of cranium removed from over the orbital ridge at the right angular process of the frontal bone, was forwarded to the Army Bledical Musum, and is represented by the wood-cut above. (Fia. 15.) Fig. 15. ri'asmeiit.s from a comminuted fracture of the frontal. Spec. 5582, Sect. I, A. M. M. OCCLXXXVIL—Accowttf of a Fracture of the Skull By S. S. Boyeb, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Corporal George Fairbanks, Co. G, 4th Artillery, aged 35 years, was struck with a shovel during an aff'ray, the blow knocking him senseless, and producing a simple fracture of the riglit parietal bone, with slight depression. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Johnson, North Carolina, March 17, 1870. Treatment consisted of cold-water dressings, saline purgatives, and anodynes. He recovered and was discharged July 23, 1870, by reason of expiration of service.