TETANUS. 269 covering for tbe tumor. Near the union of the two former with their commou tendon, the muscular tissue was destroyed or converted into a gehitinous-like substance. In front, and just below the upper tibio-fibular joint, a small sac Avas found, containing less than an ounce of dark, grumous blood. The whole growth was seen to be constituted of osseous spicula, (osteoid tissue ?) and gelatinous and cartilaginous tissue, the latter greatly predominating. On subjecting the growth to the microscope, the bone cori^uscles were clearly defined, and also others which it was inclined to range with cartilage cells. Its great succulency, and the fact that the inguinal glands of the left side were enlarged, looked toward its heteroplastic and malignant essence. On July 9th the patient was doing well, and had every prospect of recovering from the operation. He could ascribe no cause whatever for the appearance of the tumor, except ths above-mentioned injury to the thigh. The marks occasioned by the cupping were still visible at the time of operation. The specimen, with the history, was contributed to the Army Medical Museum by the operator, and some idea of the growth can be gathered from the wood-cut Fig. 68. Tetanus.—Six special reports were made of cases of alleged tetanus, with tlie sur- prising result of four recoveries and two deaths. DCCXVIII.—Information relative to a Fatal Case of Traumatic Tetanus. By W. H. Longwill, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Edward Waterfield, a private of Co. C, 5th Infantry, was admitted to hospital at Fort Wingate, New Mexico, on November 24, 186G, having been accidentally wounded by a musket ball, which entered the right wrist anteriorly, and passing through, emerged directly opposite, after comminuting the os magnum and the second and third metacarpal bones. A number of fragments of bones being removed, persulphate of iron was applied to stanch the heemor- rhage. Dry dressings were used until November 27th, when a linseed jjoultice was applied in order to remove the crust formed by the 'styptic. On November 30th, the crust was removed, and the cataplasm was continued; the wound discharging freely looked well, and the patient was in good condition. On the morning of December 1st, tetanus set in. Tincture of opium, in doses of sixty drops to be taken every two hours, was prescribed, and a blister was applied along the spine. At 7 P. M., a drastic iDurgative was administered. On December 2d, the patient's bowels were freely moved, and the blister had become very i^ainful, but no relief was aflbrded. He expe- rienced great .dif&culty in swallowing. The tincture of opium was continued, but, at 9 P. M,, opisthotonos occurred, when chloroform was administered through the remainder of the night with slight relief. The patient died at 3 P. M., on December 3d. At the autopsy, the median nerve was found swollen and inflamed at the seat of the wound, and five or six inches along its course. DC(3XIX.—Bemarlis on a Case of Tetanus following a Burn. By A. A, Teomans, M. D., Acting- Assistant Surgeon. Private D. A. McCrum, Co. B, 24:th Infantry, was severely burned by the accidental ignition of a quantity of gun-powder, at one of the magazines at Vicksburg, on December 8, 1867. January Gth lie was attacked by iiremonitory symptoms of tetanus. His jaws Avere firmly closed and he was unable to separate them, neither could they be opened more than half an inch by the attendants, with the aid of various appliances. Pulse 85 and rather weak. Prescribed half an ounce of castor oil, to be followed by one ounce of wine with a raw egg, three times a day; beef- essence and brandy, every hour, and a grain dose of morijhine at bed-time. On the 7th, there was increased immobility of the jaws, and occasional light spasms. The treatment was continued; and in addition, an enema of soap, water, and castor-oil was administered. A blister was applied ov(^r the whole length of the spine, and a drachm of bromide of ijotassium was given every fourth hour. On the 11th the patient had severe spasms, which, increasing in frequency and violence, assumed the form known as opisthotonos, and were produced by the least movement on the part of the patient, or by a current of cold air. As the bowels had not been moved for two days, another enema was ordered, and the bromide of potassium was increased to half an ounce four times a day