KEPOET OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 180 the fore-arm were extensively lacerated, the boues fractured and dissevered, the blood-vessels torn, and his face, neck, and chest very severely burned. His vision was very much injured, if not destroyed. On the same day he was admitted into the post hospital at Fort Duncan, Texas. Ether was administered, and the fore-arm amputated at the junction of the lower and middle thirds, by the circular method. On December 31st, the patient was doing well, and there was a probability of a partial restoration of vision. He was discharged the service April 30, 1870. DXX.—Account of cm Amputation of the Fore-Arm for Gunshot Injury. By A. A. Teomans, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John Zearambo, Co. I, 24th Infantry, aged 21 years, while firing a salute July 4, 1807, received a compound comminuted fracture of the riglit fore arm. He was at once admitted to the post hospital at Vicksburg, Mississippi. The radius and ulna were crushed in the middle and lower thirds, with extensive laceration of the soft parts. The humerus was fractured in the middle third, and there was a severe contusion over the right hypochondrium. The i>atient was somewhat debilitated from an attack of malarial fever; his pulse was 105, and rather weak. Chloroform was administered, and the fore-arm amputated at the upper third. Ha'inorrhage was slight; four ligatures were applied, and the patient reacted promj)tly. A few days after the operation, the stump became gangrenous. Nitric acid and bromine were applied, and nourishing diet given. In a few days the line of demarcation was formed, and the slough thrown off. Nitro-muriatic acid was applied to the ends of the radius and ulna, which projected from the soft parts after mortification had attacked the stump, but, as their removal hj that process seemed tedious, they were subsequently taken off by the saw. Union took lilace between the fragments of the humerus, and although the patient suffered from a severe attack of tetanus, he was, on September 30, 1867, doing well. Discharged July 22, 1868, and pensioned at $15 j)er month. Amputations of the Arm.—Special reports of twenty-four cases of this class were received; twenty were due to gun-shot wounds, one to railroad accident, two to other injuries, and one to disease. Five cases had a fatal termination. DXXI.—Account of an Intermediary Amputation of the Arm. By W. M. NoTSON, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private B. Bowers, Co. E, 11th Infantry, aged 21 years, was wounded on October 13, 1870, by a conoidal musket ball, in the right hand. On the same day, he was admitted to the hospital at Fort Concho, Texas; and on the 14th, the third finger was amputated at the carpo-phalangeal articulation. Immediately succeediug the operation, the patient had an attack of typhoid pneu- monia, during which there was much sloughing of the hand and fore-arm, with hsemorrhage. While convalescing from the pulmonary trouble, and a profuse hfemorrhage occurring on November 7th, in consequence of the extent of the diseased tissue, the arm was amputated in the lower third. On March 31,1871, this man was still under treatment. He was discharged the service May 24,1871, for loss of arm from gunshot wound received in the line of duty. DXXII.—Account of an Amputation of the Arm and Fingers for Gunshot Injtiry. By H. A. DuBois, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Lieutenant George W. Cami^bell, 3d Cavalry, aged 35 years, was admitted into the post hospital at Fort Union, New Mexico, Jane 8, 1867, having been wounded by the premature discharge of a cannon which he was loading, in camp on the Cimarron Eiver, fifty miles from Fort Union. The left hand was entirely blown off, the left fore-arm and lower half of arm and the fingers, thumb and palm of the right hand were bruised and shattered; he was also burned in both eyes, head, and face. Carrou oil was applied to the burnt parts, and the arm was amputated four inches above the elbow by the circular method, which was followed by a large slough on lower surface of stump. First l^halanges of the middle and ring fingers were removed, and a thumb was made by covering the bone with flesh taken from the palm. Eeturned to duty July 1, 1867 ; wounds nearly healed; thumb