208 EEPORT OF SURGICAL GASES IN THE ARMY. ment of the femur, nor of the fragments of the patella, Avhich were held in position by the ligament, the fracture of the outer condyle and of the patella had not been diagnosed. The pathological specimen was contributed, with the history, to the Army Medical Museum by the operator, and is No. 5782 of the surgical section. DXCII.—Account of an Amputation of ike Thigh for Compound Fracture. By V. B. Hubbard, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Maurice G. Hickey, Go. G, 19th Infantry, aged 22 years, received a compound comminuted fracture of the right tibia and fibula, by the falling of a flag-staflf upon the leg, while assisting to raise the same, July 3, 18G0, at Fort Gibson, Ghoctaw Nation. On the same day he was admitted to the post hospital. Ills constitution responded in a very emphatic manner to so powerful a source of irritation. The fever was remittent in type, the febrile exacerbation being vesperal. The evening pulse was 150 to IGO, the morning pulse 110 to 120. The exacerbation commenced about 3 P. M., and ended about midnight. By the 23d of July, the parts were intensely inflamed, the inflammation extendingto, and in places reaching above, the knee. The limb enlarged to the full capacity of the skin, which was tense and shining, and hot to the touch. The limb was commencing to give out an odor which awakened suspicions of incipient hospital gangrene. On the latter date, chloroform was administered, and the thigh amputated, by the double flap method at the junction of the middle with the lower third. Simple water dressings were applied. The patient rallied well from the eft'ects of the operation. The constitutional irritative fever left him almost simultaneouslj' with the source of irritation. Neuralgic pains, causing severe twitching of the stump, referred to the amputated limb, continued seventy-two hours. The weather, three sveeks before and three weeks after the operation, being excessively warm and dry, the thermometer, at noon, indicating 100° F. in the shade, the stitches sloughed out, and the edges of the flaps sloughed away sufficiently to expose the sawn extremity of the femur, on the fourteenth day after the operation. The wound healed, excepting the parts immediately around the bone, the extremity of which necrosed. September 30, 18CG, the soldier was awaiting his discharge from the service on surgeon's certificate of disability. A second operation would have been performed for the removal of the dead bone, had the physical condition of the patient been such as to render it justifiable ; this, however, together with the extreme heat, contra-indicated further surgical interference. DXCIII.—Account of an Amputation of the Thirjh for Compound Fracture^ by VermaWs Operation. By J. F. BouGHTER, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. John Johnson, a Norwegian, aged 39 years, on January 19, 18G9, fell from a rock on the Big Sioux River to the ice, a large rock and the tree he had been cutting rolling after him. He was found a few hours afterward, and was taken to his home, a dirty, unventilated hut, partially under ground. On February 9, 18G9, he was admitted for treatment to the hospital at Fort Dakota, Dakota Territorj-, in a very weak and emaciated condition. His diet had been very meagre. Examination disclosed a compound comminuted fracture of the right tibia and fibula extending to the knee-joint. Portions of the tibia protruded in several places, and, upon pressure with the hand, the bones could be felt crushed to small fragments, some of which had been discharged from the wounds, which were suppurating freely, but Avere not much swelled. There was, also, a transverse fracture of the left patella, and bed-sores on the hip. Stimulants were administered, and the patient being bathed was put to bed. On the next day, beef essence and milk i)unch were freely given, the left leg was placed on an inclined plane, and the fractured patella was brought together with adhesive straps. On February 11th, the right thigh was amputated by Vermale's operation (flap) three inches above the knee-joint. The femoral and two other arteries were tied; the flaps were exposed, and cold water was poured over the surface until glazed; then sutures were introduced and the flaps were brought together. Morphine was given, cold-water dressings were applied to the stump, and renewed every five minutes. The left leg was elevated and extended in a swing. On February 12th a tonic and anodyne were given. On the next day,