98 EEPOET OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. CCCXXIII.—Account of an Incised Wound of the Thigh and Femur. By J. H. Bartholf, Assistant Surgeou, U. S. A. At Camp Grant, near Eiclimond, Virginia, on January 4,1868, Private Jolin Joye, Troop F, 5tb. Cavalry, aged 22 years, received a blow with an axe, in the hands of a comrade, on the outer aspect of the right thigh, chipping up and nearly severing a portion of the femur an inch and a half in length, an inch and a half wide, and about a quarter of an inch thick, the instrument entering two inches below the tip of the trochanter major. He was at once conveyed to the post hosi)ital. The end of the cut bone protruded from the wound, which gaj^ed very much. The piece of bone adherent at the upper end was pushed back into its place, as nearly as possible, and two sutures were applied, leaving an ojjening at the most dependent point. On January 17th, two pieces of bone becoming loose were removed from the wound. The i^atient made a good recovery, and was retmued to duty March 1, 18G8. CCCXXIV.—Bemarlcs on Monthly Report of SicJc and Wounded at Fort Ahercromhie, DaJcota Territory, for May, 1868. By W. H. Gardner, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. The incised wound reported in tabular statement was situated over the inner and anterior aspect of the right knee-joint. It was immediately sealed hermetically with fine gauze and collodion, and cold dressings continuously applied, and by the fifth day was entirely healed up. He was allowed to sit up that day for the first time, but abused the privilege, and walked about so much that at night the joint was inflamed and painful, and the next day acute synovitis was declared. The cicatrix opened and pus flowed freely from tlie cavity of the joint. Treated by absolute rest, nutritious diet, tonics, and the hyposulphite of soda, and is at this date in a fair way to recover, with good motion of the joint. [This man was discharged from service September 21,1868, for "false anchylosis of the right knee joint, following acute synovitis." Disability was rated one-half. —Ed.] CCCXXV.—Extract from Monthly Report of Side and Wounded at Fort Gaston, California, May, 1866. By Peter Moffatt, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. The case reported as a suicide was one of the most deliberate attempts at self-destruction ev er witnessed. The subject, a private of Co. K, 9th Infantry, was returned to duty from the hospital on the morning of May 12, 1866, and at the time was observed to be laboring under dejection of spirits. At evening roll-call he was absent, and it was then noticed by his comrades that he had not been present at either dinner or supper. Between sundown and dark he was found at some distance from the quarters, in a secluded place, among some bushes, cold, almost lifeless, and covered with blood. I was immediately sent for, and upon my arrival at the place found the man lying on the ground in a nicely shaded spot, his coat regularly folded beneath his head, his shirt, vest, and trousers smeared with blood, partially dried and stiffened, the surface of the body cold, the limbs almost rigid, and the pulse imi)ercei)tible. On the inner side of each leg, between the knee and ankle, were two transverse gashes through the skiu and cellular tissues, so that the muscles lay exposed, and completely severing the superficial veins. The prominent places of the veins had evidently been selected. On each arm the operation was repeated; the lower transverse incision just above the wrists were not sufficiently deep to injure the radial artery, nor the tendons of the flexor muscles; but just below the bend of the elbow, at the point usually selected for venesection, a deep gash was inflicted in each arm, partially severing some of the flexor muscles. I found a razor, covered with dried and hardened blood, lying by the man's side, and a small memorandum book, upon the first leaf of which were a few lines written in lead pencil, and giving reasons for the deed he was about to commit. Upon the administration of brandy and water, and other restoratives, and the application of lu'at internally, the patient gradually recovci'ed strength. So completely had the system been depleted of blood tbat the least elevation of the head and shoulders was immediately followed by convulsions. As soon as consciousness was restored the sensations usually experienced in cases of great and sudden depletion were urgent, and the first words were " water, water." Tlic man is still in liospital, but lias abnost regained his former strength.