44 EEPOET OF SUKGIGAL CASES IN THE AEMY. CXXXII.—Bemarlcs on a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Jejunum. By Axbert NeujVIAN, M'. D., Acting Assistaut Surgeon. Private Samuel G. Martin, Troop D, lith Missouri Cavalry, was admitted to hospital at Lawrence, Kansas, June 23d, having received a wound about an hour before by the accidental discharge of a Eeniington revolver. The ball entered the right side near the lower lumbar verte- brje, and lodged under the skin about an inch above the internal abdominal ring, whence it had been removed by incision before admission. He was sutfering great pain, and there was great ten- derness of the abdomen. There was a constant and intense desire to urinate with inability to do so, and he begged to have his urine drawn off. An anodyne was administered, and cold-water dressings applied. On the 25th, ftecal matter was discharged from the wound in front. On the 20tli, he complained of no pain ; he became slightly delirious, and vomited ; pulse 108. July 4tli: Easy; fiBcal matter discharged from the wound in the back; a dark slough protruded from the Avound in front; pulse 9G ; treated expectantly. July 5th: Sntfei'ed much i^ain in the night: had four discharges per anum, and fiecal matter discharged from both wounds. Ji\\y 6th : Symptoms increased, with considerable tenderness over the whole abdomen. July 14th : Patient nmch pros- trated ; back and sides of the trunk covered with small, irregular purple spots and lines; lividness of the hands and feet. The symptoms gradually grew worse, and by July 21st the pulse was 104, and small; the lividness had increased, and purple spots covered both legs. Death occurred July 22d. A necroscopic examination, three hours after deatli, revealed the usual characteristics of peritonitis. The small intestine was completely divided, the lower portion being contracted almost to the size of a goose quill. Communicating with the wounds of exit and of entrance, and surround- ing the right psoas muscle, was a cavity of sufficient size to hold a quart, separated by adhesions from the remainder of the abdominal cavity. The upper portion of the small intestine opened into this cavity, which was half full of faecal matter. CXXXIII.—Memorandum of a Gunshot Wound of the Abdomen. By G. A. Jajieson, M. D., Acting- Assistant Surgeon. Private John Hynds, Co. D, 17th Eegiment Veteran Eeserve Corps, was wounded by an asso- ciate at Ekin Barracks, Indianapolis, Indiana, on July 22, 1805 ; death resulted on July 23d, nine hours after the reception of the injury. At the post-mortem examination, the ball was found to have entered the abdomen three inches to the left, and a half inch above the umbilicus; and the adipose tissue around the orifice made by the ball to be iutiltrated with blood from one to two inches in every direction. Upon laying back the flaps made by the incision, the peritonaeum was found to be move red and swollen than common. In the abdominal cavity were three pints of blood, which must have been effused from the small mesenteric vessels broken by the ball. CXXXTV.—Penetrating Gunshot Wound of the Abdomen. By B. A. Clements, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Michael Ford, Co. E, 19th United States Infiintry, received August 9, 1870, a gun- shot wound of the abdomen. He was admitted to the post hospital at Jackson Barracks, Louisi- ana, on the same day. Simple dressings were applied. He died August 14, from the immediate effects of internal haemorrhage and peritonitis. CXXXV.—Note of a Gunshot Perforation of the Small Intestines. By John Eidgely, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Bernard Curry, Co. B, Gth United States Cavalry, was admitted into the post hospital at Austin, Texas, on August 23, 18G8, with a gunshot wound of the abdomen, from the ejects of which he died on the same day. At the autopsy, the missile, which was supposed to have been a pistol ball, was found to have entered the cavity of the abdomen about two aiul a half inches below and to the left of the umbilicus; to have passed transversely through each fold of the intestines, tearing them—in some iilaces destroying the continuity—and to have emerged immediately above the crest of the left ilium.