REPOET OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 156 CCCCLXXXI.—Account of Tioo Cases of A^-row-WouncIs occurring near Bower^s Bamhe, Arizona Territory. By P, Midbleton, Assistant Surgeon, U, S. A. Private William Hardwiclc, Co. C, 14th Infantrj', aged 45 years, was wonnded in an engage- ment witli Indians on November 11, 38G7, by arrows, in the left thigh and right arm. One missile penetrated the rectus femoris muscle at the centre, and passed upward and inward to the bone. Another arrow entered through centre of belly of biceps muscle, and penetrated to the bone. I administered chloroform, enlarged the wound of the thigh, and removed the arrow on the field. On the following day, he Avas admitted to the post hospital at Camp Whipple, Arizona Territory. On December 15tli, both wounds had healed, but the patient had onlj- slight use of his leg. He was, however, steadily improving, and on December 28th, was able to walk on crutches. He was returned to duty in January, 18CS. CCCCLXXXrr.—E^yor^ 0/ an Arrow Wound of the Thigli. By B. Semig, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private James F. Tompkins, Co. K, 32d Infantry, aged 2G years, was wounded April 20,18G9, in an attack by Aijache Indians upon a wagon-train, in the Santa Rita Mountains, by an arrow, which caused a flesh-wound of the anterior portion of the lower third of the left thigh. He Avas admitted, on the same day, to the post hospital at Camp Crittenden, Arizona Territory. He recovered, and was returned to duty May 22, 1869. CCCCLXXXIII.—Note relative to a Case of Becoverij after numerous Wounds from Arrows. By W. S. Tremaine, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Sergeant James Murray, Co. B, 3d Infixntry, aged 34 years, in an attack by hostile Indians on the Marl Station on Bear Creek, Indian Territory, May 31, 1870, received seven arrow-wounds; two on the anterior surface of the right arm, one in the right axilla, one on the right side of the chest near the border of the axilla, two on the left arm, posterior surface, near the elbow-joint, and one on the left temple. He was admitted on June 1st to the i)ost hospital at Fort Dodge, Kansas. The wound on the right arm, uear the deltoid, discharged, and there was slight exfoliation from the humerus. He was treated with simple dressings, and was returned to duty in July, 1870. CCCCLXXXIV.—Memorandum relative to an Arrow - Wound of the Testis. By A. H. Smith, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. While serving at Fort Bliss, Texas, in 186G, I had occasion to attend a Mexican herdsman, who had received a wound in the testis from an arrow shot by an Apache Indians. The hoop-iron arrow-head had lodged in the testicle, and the external wound had nearly healed over at the time I saw him, about three months after the reception of the wound. It was not difiicult, however, to detect the position of the foreign body and to extract it. Upon its removal the wound cicatrized Fig. 30. Arrow-lirad of Apache Indians. „ ^ ™, . . -,^1^x1 a nTni;,™! .vpec. 5641, Sect. I, A. M. M. (Nat. size.) Anely. The spccimcn was transmitted to the Arm;y Medical Museum. [It is figured in the Avood-cut, Fig. 30.—Ed.] CGCCLXXXY.—31 einoranda of Forty Cases of Arrotc - Wounds. Condensed from reports. By D. C. Peteks, Surgeon, U. S. A.; J. M. Dickson, M. D., T. H. Snow, M. D., R. Westeri.ing, M. D., J. H. McMahon, M. D., B. Semig, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeons: S. M. Horton, H. McElderry, J. P. Kimball, H. Turner, Assistant Surgeons, U. S. A., and Surgeon J. F. Weeds, U. S. A. Private John Ahern, Troop L, 8th Cavalry; Camp Willow Grove, Arizona Territory, Novem- ber 8, 18G7; slight arrow-wounds in the back and left shoulder. He had recoA'ered December 9, 18G7. Sergeant George Aldrich, Troop C, 2d Cavalry, aged 33 years; Peno Creek, Dakota Territory, Decembe;', 18GG; wound in right lumbar region by an iron-headed arrow ; treated in post hospital at Fort Philip Kearney, Dakota Territory, and returned to duty December 31, 1866.