175 AMPUTATIONS OP THE FOEE-AEM. amputation at tbe wrist-joitit. After two days hospital gangrene ensued. Nitric acid was applied to tbe gangrenous i)art, and opiates and stimulants were administered. On December 31,1868, the case was still under treatment, and progressing very favorably. He was discharged. D.—Mention of a Case of Secondary Amputation at the Wrist-Joint. By H. E. Mills, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Eeinhold Shulz, Co. B, 43d Infantry, aged 23 years, received May 12, 1867, a gunshot wound of the left band, caused by tbe bursting of a fowling-piece. He was at ouce admitted into the post hospital at Fort Wayne, Michigan. Tbe palmar surface of the hand was much lacerated ; the index and middle fingers completely denuded of their soft tissues, and their metacarpal bones frac- tured near the carpal end ; the ball of tbe thumb was badly lacerated, and its carpo-metacarpal joint opened. Assistant Surgeon B. E. Fryer, United States Army, administered chloroform, and removed the index and middle fingers with their metacarpal bones. One ligature was applied. The patient reacted well, and the wound was dressed with a solution of chloride of zinc, and left open. About three hours after the operation, lijemorrhage occurred, which was arrested by astrin- gent lotions. On June 30, 1867, tbe parts were nearly Avell. On September 1, 1867, he was admit- ted to tbe hospital at Fort Mackinac, Michigan, with three distinct fistnlous openings in the hand, which were discharging sickly-looking i)us, more or less^ freely. Owing to the great desire of the patient to save his hand, it was decided to give the experiment sufficient time, for the satisfaction of all concerned. Alternate healing and reopening of the wound, accomi^anied by intense iiain at times, especially on any sudden change of the weather, and a gradual decline of the general health of the patient comprised the chief symptoms in tbe case until March 2,1868, when I decided to remove the band at tbe radio-carpal articulation, which was accordingly performed. A small interosseous artery rendered three ligatures necessary. The edges of the flaps were nicely adjusted and united by first intention throughout almost their entire extent. Tbe ligature of the ulnar artery came away the fourth or fifth day. On the 31st of March, the remaining ligatures still remained firmly attached, although traction had been made daily since the first week, with the design of removing them. With this exception, tbe stump was perfectly sound, and the health of the patient much improved. On examination of the bones of the hand and wrist, the articulatiug surfaces were found firmly adherent, and the whole a mass of necrosis and caries. This man was discharged the service July 6, 1868. Amputations of the Fore arm.—Special reports were made of twenty cases of this nature, of wliicli nineteen were due to gunshot wounds, and one to railroad accident, HI.—Wote'of a Case of Primary Amputation of the Fore-arm for Gunshot Injury. By H. A. DuBois, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private (Jasimiro Alvidrez, Co. H, 1st New Mexico Infantry, was wounded July 4, 1866, at Fort Union, New Mexico, while firing a salute, by the premature explosion of a gun, which greatly shattered the hand and lower third of the fore-arm. Tbe shock was profound. Within a half hour after the receipt of the injury, chloroform was administered and the fore-arm amputated by skin- flai) method. The patient rallied in twenty-four hours. Chloroform brought the pulse up, but the reaction, after the operation, was slower than it would have been bad the operation been post- l)oned until reaction took place. During the treatment there was hoemorrliage froiu the medullary cavity. The patient was discharged, with a good stump, September 8, 1866. DII.—Report of an Amputation of the Fore-arm and Finger for Gunshot Injury. By E. H. White, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John Berger, Co. G, 15th Infantry, aged 22 years, was wounded at Mobile, Ala- bama, on July 4, 1868, while acting as number one in firing a brass field-piece. He had forced