155 AEEOW-WOUNDS. Miscellaneous Arroio- Wounds.—None of the forty-eight cases of arrow-wounds men- tioned in the nine following reports proved fatal. With one exception the lesions impli- cated the soft parts only. The regions injured were the scalp or face, or neck in three instances; the parieties of the chest in six; the long muscles of the back in seven; the abdominal muscles in two; the hip or buttocks in three; the testis in one ; the shoulder or arm in thirteen ; the fore-arm or hand in six; the thigh or leg in seven. A few cases of extraction of arrow-heads, and an instance of brachial aneurism cured by digital com- pression are noticeable in this series. CCCCI;XXVII.—Remarl{s on an Arrow- Wound of the Bad-. By J. P. Kimball, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Corporal Edward Monagban, Co. C, 31st Infantry, aged 24 years, was wounded in a skirmish with Indians near Fort Buford, Dakota Territory, on November 6,1867, by an arrow, which entered just below the inferior angle of the right scapula, and, passing around the ribs, came so nearly through in front, that the position of the head could be clearly made out. He was at once admit- ted to the post hospital. There was no swelling or discoloration, and but little haemorrhage. He was somewhat excited, having walked nearly two miles after the reception of the injury. An incision one inch in length, and about one inch in depth, was made through the pectoralis major muscle, two inches above and a little to the outside of the right nipple. The arrow-head was then removed through the'incision, and the shaft removed through the wound of entrance. Three days later, the anterior wound was healing by first intention; the posterior wound suppurated slightly. On November 26, 1867, both wounds had healed, and the patient was returned to duty. CCCCLXXVIII.—Wote concerning an Arrow- Wound of the Lumbar Region. By Eedfoed_Sharpb, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Captain E. M. Heyl, Co. M, 9th Cavalry, aged 26 years, Avas admitted to the post hospital at Fort McKavett, Texas, on November 28, 1869, with an arrow-wound of the left lumbar region, midway between the spine and nmbilicus, received in an engagement with Lipan Indians, at the headwaters of the Llano River, Texas. The wound had a direction oblique and backward. He recovered, and returned to duty December 25, 1869. CCCCLXXIX.—Report of an Arrow- Woimd of the Arm, follotved by Aneurism, By J. N. McChand- LESS, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. PriA-ate James Burridge, Co. C, 14th Infantry, aged 22 years, was wounded near Bower's Eanche, Arizona Territory, November 11, 1867, by an arrow, which struck the arm about two inches above the elbow. Traumatic aneurism followed, and on January 3d, digital compression was employed, and continned for twenty-four hours. Before compression, the tumor was about the size of a pigeon's egg, soft and pulsating. One week after the compression, it was reduced to half the size. On January 15th, the compression was repeated for twenty-four hours, and on January 18th, the tumor was almost imperceptible. The patient was returned to duty January 20, 1868. CCCGLXXX.—Mention of an Arrow-Wound of the Hand. By J. B. Girard, Assistant Surgeon, U.S.A. « Private Edward M. Detterer, Co. G, 4th Infjxntry, was wounded at Smoky Hill, Kansas, July, 1867, by an arrow, which split the metacarpal bone of the right thumb down to the trapezium. Ampntation at the metacarpal jf)int was performed, and the radial artery ligated above the wrist on account of haemorrhage. He was discharged from service August 26, 1867.