SIMPLE AND COMPOUND FRACTUEES. 131 blood; tlie pelvis of the left being filled with pus, (?) br.t upon careful examination no abscess could be found. The ureters were very dark, and one of them contained a clot at the entrance of the bladder. The walls of the bladder were of a dark purple color, inflamed, and thickened; the mucus membrane being absent in patches. The pathological specimens, consisting of the riglit kidney, the bladder, the urethra, and the cervical vertebrfs (Fig. ID), were contributed to the Army Medical Museum, and are numbered 5724, 5725, 5720,5727 respectively, of the Surgical Section. Fkaotures of the Bones of the Trunk.—But few cases were reported in detail. Fractures of the ribs were not infrequent accidents ; while fractures of the spine and pelvis were rare. Fractures of the Fibs.—Special reports were made of a fatal case, of a case compli- cated by necrosis, and of a third with fractured clavicle.* CCCCXV.—Report of a Casein ichich the Ribs were Uxtensively Fractured. By J. H. Frantz, Surgeon, U. S. A. James B , a laborer, aged 33 years, was injured at Fort Sanders, Wyoming Territory, April 3, 1870, by the passage over him of the wheel of a heavilj^ laden wagon. Death resulted April 21, 1870. The autopsy revealed twelve fractures of the ribs of the riglit side ; the first to the seventh, both inclusive, w^ere broken, with relation to each other, nearly on a line with the angles of the larger ribs; while the third, fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh were again broken about four inches nearer their sternal extremities. The cavity of the pleura was found almost obliterated, the vis- ceral and parietal layers of that membrane being adherent to each other. The right lung contained three or four abscesses, having tough-lined membranes, filled with what seemed laudable pus; the remaining portion was broken down, disorganized, and filled with serum darkly covered with blood. [The specimen, presented by Surgeon Frantz, is a ligamentous preparation of the thorax, and is numbered 5G92 in the Surgical Section of the Army Medical Museum.—Ed.] CCCOXVI.—RemarTcs on a Case of Contusion, with Fracture of the Rihs, followed hy liecrosis. By F. H. Barbarin, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Corporal James Kelly, Co. K, 5th Cavalry, aged 25 years, was injured April 2,18G7, while riding. His horse fell, throwing him with his left side upon a railroad track, and falling upon his left leg. He was taten upon sick report for April 3d, and treated for bruise of leg, no mention being made of pain of any kind in the side. On November 10th, Kelly was admitted into the post hospital at Sedgwick Barracks, Washington, on account of the injury to his side. On Deceniber 1st, there were two openings, one inch apart, over the anterior portion of the ninth rib, which were discharging pus. The point of a probe introduced, discovered the bone denuded of periosteum for about one inch. An incision was made uniting the two openings, and flax-seed poultices applied, with the hope that, as he was otherwise in perfect health, the portion of necrosed bone would be thrown oft". On Feb- ruary 28, 1868, chloroform was administered, and after making an incision of some four inches in the course of the rib, a ])iece of bone one and a half inches in length was extracted. Exposing the bone in the operation, it w'as found that in the fall he had received, the rib had been fractured one and a half inches from its sternal extremity, and had become separated from its cartilage. After removing the piece, the end of the remaining ])ortion of the rib was smoothed, and a small Ijortiou of the superior portion of the tenth rib found to be diseased was also removed. On November 3d, the patient was in fine condition, and the wound healing kindly. He was returned to duty in April, 1868. *Almost every variety of fractures of the ribs, either united, with or without deformity, or ununited witli attempt at repair, are illustrated by specimens 4917, 5027, 5172, 5173, 5174, 5177, 5178, 5180, 5181, 5504, .5r>00, of the Surgical Series, A. M. M.—Ed.