246 EEPOET OF SUKGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. directed to be used as a mouth-wasli. The seton was several times renewed in the course of treat- ment. The patient was returned to duty December 29, 18G9.* DOLXXV.—N'ote relative to the Removal of a Polypxis from the Tonsil. By G. M. Sternberg, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private David Young, Troop K, 10th Cavalry, aged 22 years, was admitted on December 22, 18G7, to the post hospital at Fort Eiley, Kansas, comphiiiiing of difliculty in swallowing. An examination of the pharynx disclosed a fibrous polypus, about one and a half inches long, attached to the right tonsil. The polypus was removed by first seizing it with toothed-forceps, and then severiug it from its attachments with a bltint-pointed bistoury. Very little luemorrhage o(5curred, and, up to December 31st, no return of polypus was noticed. He was returned to duty in January, 1868. DCLXXVI.—Note relative to a Salivary Calculus. By Clinton Wagner, M. D., late Surgeon, TJ. S. A. I transmit to the address of the Surgeon General a salivary calciilus, which I hope will be, on account of its extraordinary size, an acceptable offering to the collections of the Army Medical Museum. I removed the stone in December, 1870, from the sublingual gland of a laboring man. It blocked up the orifice of the duct of Bartholine at its junction with the Whartonian duct. From the man's statement I inferred that the concretion had been about three years in form- ing. The man lived in Boise Citj", Idaho. The calculus weighs about eight grains, or little less. The groove was made by scraping with my knife. The powder scraped oft" did not Fir 1 s r ^ff^^'^'csce with hydrochloric acid. With solution of molybdate of ammonia it gave the v:n v ( Ml. iiius. charactcristic reaction of phosphoric acid, and a white precipitate with oxalate of ammo- i^Ai'M^ 'M."*^" nia. Tlie concretion Avould seem to be composed mainly ofi)hosphate of lime and of organic matter. It is figured of the natural size in the wood-cut. (Fig. 51.) DCLXXVII.—Account of a Plastic Operation. By L. E. Holmes, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Andrew Mussell, Troop F, 8th Cavalry, aged 22 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Camp Logan, Oregon, on March 7, 1868. He had lost a portion of his nose, which had been injured two or three years i)reviously. A part of the left wing of the vomer was destroyed, leaving a fistulous opening through the middle third of the organ. On March 7th I i^erformed the rhiuoplastic operation, Indian method. Considerable swelling of the flap and the lids of both eyes followed the operation. This was treated with cold water-dressings. On the fourth day the stitches were removed, and the root of the flap was cut on the thirtieth day. The flap was well located, and appeared satisfactory. The patient was returned to duty on April 1, 1868. Operations on the Air Passages.—Keports were furnished of five cases of bron- cliotomj, and one of paracentesis of the thorax. DCLXXVIII—.Report of Two Operations of Tracheotomy, with Remarlcs on some Details of the Opera- tion and After-treatment. By Basil Norris, Surgeon, U. S. A. A child, 3^ years old, son of Mr. Paulson, in general service at the War Department, was seen in consultation November 9, 1869. It had been suffering five days from membraneous croup ; was extremely restless, with sharp, ringing, croupy cough, livid lips, and laborious respiration. In the afternoon, at two o'clock, it was put under the influence of chloroform, which was sprinkled on a handkerchief caught loosely in the hand and held before the face; it was then placed upon a table, the shoulders being raised on a pillow, and the head allowed to fall back. An incision was * This man was drowned at Fort Monroe, November 14, 1870.