EEPOET OF SUEGIOAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 28 dimiuislied a little in volume, not iu extent. Complains only of a soreness of the wound. Has not had haemoptysis. He continued to improve rapidly. Complained, on the seventh day, of a stitch in his right side, for the first time. The emphysema had disappeared by the seventh day. Eespiration continued very feeble and indistinct nearly up to his discharge from hospital. He recovered speedily, and was returned to duty, at his own request, there being nothing in his con- dition to contraindicate it, on March 31 st, eighteen days al'ter the reception of the wound. What is, further, very noticeable in his case, is the fact that there was no suppuration from or at the wound. There was a slight bleeding Irom the wound at the time; but a clot dried and closed the wound, and x'emained there until I removed it, on the morning of his discharge from the hospital, leaving a small, dry, white cicatrix. LXXII.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Chest, successfully treated hy the Method of " Hermetically Sealing." By H. S. Schell, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Musician George Wolf, Co. I, 18th New York Infantry, was admitted into hospital, September 19, 18G7, he having been accidentally wounded by a conical pistol-ball, calibre .22, that morning. The ball passed through the biceps-flexor-cubito muscle of the right arm, and entered the chest between the fifth and sixth ribs, under the axilla. The symptoms, on admission, were great dyspnoea, extreme nervous depression, and intense pain in the right hypochondrium; pulse 85, and verj'feeble; patient tossing from side to side, anxious expression of countenance; flatness, on percussion, on right side of chest, as high as the fifth rib in front, and anterior border of axilla, fi'om behind forward, with expectoration of blood. Immediately sealed the wound in the jiarietes of the chest, by means of a dossil of cotton and Eichardson's styptic colloid fluid. Administered morphia, ^ gr.; vin. alb. flljs.; this was repeated in half an hour. Chloroform, confined by oil-silk, was applied to the right hypogastrium, and its irritant effects allayed by painting the surface with tinct. opii. He became quiet, and slept in the course of an hour. 6 P. M., pulse 95, full. Administered maffn. sulph. ^j- September 20th, 8 A. M., pulse 110, hard. Ee- peat magn. sulph. ^j.; 6 P. M., ijulse 115, hard; skin hot; great pain in right hypogastrium, with increased dyspnoea. Applied six cut cups, one ounce of blood extracted from each cup. Adminis- tered ant. et pot. tart., gr. every hour. Puli\ ip. et op., gr. xij, at taps. Ten P. M., much re- fieved from pain, and slept all night. September 21, 8 A. M., pulse 100. Peels somewhat com- lortable; continued tartar emetic, and administered an ounce of sulphate of magnesia. At 6 P. M. the epsom salt had operated freely; pulse 110; skin hot, and increased pain in right hypochon- drium ; applied two cut cups, and abstracted four ounces of blood ; continued ant. et potass, and repeated Dover's powder. Ten P. M., pulse 95, i)erfectly comfortable, sleeping. September 22,8 A. M,, feels comfortable, very little pain ; expectoration of blood continues. Absolute diet maintained, and ant. et potass, tart, continued for one day longer; since which time he has continued to im- l^rove, without an unfavorable symi)tom. Wound in arm nearly healed. Eeturned to duty Octo- ber 3, 1867. The fatal cases of gunshot wounds of the lung reported were, of course, more numerous. LXXIII.—Memorandum of a Fatal Penetrating Pistol Wound of the Chest. By Dr. T. Eoctee, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private John Simmons, Co. C, 128th United States Colored Troops, received an accidental pistol-shot wound of the chest, on September 25, 18.66. He was admitted to the post hospital at Charleston, South Carolina, on the 25th, and died on the same day, fioin internal hivmorrhage. LXXIV.—Minute of a Penetrating Gunshot Wound of the Chest. By C. Bacon. Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. * * Near Austin, Texas, Private James Donnelly, Co. B, Gth United States Cavalry? aged 21 years, received a gunshot penetrating wound of the left chest, on May 15, 1867, at the hands of the guard. He died the same day, and was taken to the regimental hospital for burial.