56 EEPOET OF SUEGIOAL OASES IN THE ARMY. Gunshot AVounds of the Genito-Ueinary Organs.—The returns refer to two cases of gunshot wounds of the bladder, and to several of the scrotum and testes. One of the cases of wounds of the bladder has been reported with the gunshot wounds of the pelvis. (Report CLXIX.) On page 53, a gunshot wound of the penis is noted. OLXXVI.—Memorandum of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Bladder. By Jules Le Oarpentier, M. I)., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Frank Stewart, Co. D, 38tb United States Infantry, aged 24 years, was wounded in a riot, at Central City, December 24, 1868, by a pistol ball wbicli passed tlirough the right thigh and lacerated the bladder. He was admitted into the post hospital at Fort Bayard, New Mexico, on the same day. Simple dressings were applied. He died on December 29, 1868, in consequence of urinary infiltration, producing peritonitis and sloughing. CLXXVII.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Scrotum. By S. M. Hoeton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Louis Waffler, Co. E, ISth United States Colored Troops, aged 22 years, was accident- ally wounded at Fort Philip Kearney, Dakota Territory, April 14, 1867, by a conoidal ball, which entered the scrotum in front near the middle line. He was admitted to the post hospital. No clew to the course of the ball could be found, the infiltrated loose tissue of the scrotum preventing the probes from entering the channel. There was no tenderness on pressure in any of the adjacent parts. Two weeks after the reception of the injury the missile was excised from its place of lodg- ment, close behind the trochanter major. The patient recovered, and was retitrned to duty on May 27, 1867. CLXXVIII.—^ccoiMi* of a Gunshot Wound of the Testicles. By W. N. McCoy, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Frank Meyer, Co. E, 14th United States Infantry, aged 24 years, was wounded in a brawl on February 3,1870, by a pistol bullet which passed through the testicles. He was admitted to the post hospital at Jeffersonville, Indiana, on February 4th. Simple dressings were applied. He was returned to duty on February 21, 1870. CLXXIX.—RemarTcs on a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Testicles. By L. W. Goldsboeough, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. On the monthly report of sick and wounded at Camp Schofield, Lynchburg, occupied by Com- panies A and I of the 17th United States Infantry, is noted a case in which the patient, whose name is not given, was accidentally wounded by a musket ball which passed thi'ough both thighs and both testes, making very lagly wounds, particularly in the left thigh and testicle. The scrotum being much lacerated on both sides, and torn portions of the testicles i)rotruding through the openings, much sloughing was apprehended. The portions of the testicles were, however, returned, and the edges of the wounds of the scrotum were brought together by sutures, leaving space enough for matter to escape. Cold-water dressings were applied for two or three days. When the discharge was beginning to be offensive, a weak solution of carbolic acid was applied, which was contiiuied, either dissolved in water or mixed with flax-seed oil in various proportions, the whole time of the recovery; and so admirably did it answer the purpose, that at no time was there any unpleasant odor scarcely perceptible, and then only when one was immediately at the bedside and the wound exposed. IJut that was not all; not oidy did the carbolic acid correct any offensive exhalations, but it certainly contributed to the patient's recovery by preventing sloughing and excessive discharge of matter.