220 EEPOET OF SUEGTCAL CASES IN THE AEMY. later the patient was slightly conscious ; lieruia cerebri appeared. Until the tenth day the patient had taken notliing hnt cold water, but now Avas given some flour grnel; bowels were o])ened for the tirst time with la vement of soap and water. On June 15th the protruding brain began to slough and gradually became less prominent. On June 21st copious hajmorrhage, apparently from middle meningeal artery, occurred, and continuing for two hours, was controlled by ])ressure. The patient became unconscious, with stertorous breathing, and signs of compression, but on June 25th consciousness returned, and a gradual improvement took place. July 17th the wound was almost healed, and the jiatient was removed from the hospital by his friends. Excisions of the Bones of the Face.—Three special reports were received ; anotlier case will be found among tlie operations for tumors. DCXV.—Abstract of a Case in ichich Portions of the Superior and Inferior Maxilla icere Removed. From a report by Jules Le Cakpentier, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private John Francis, Troop E, 3d Cavalry, after escaping from the guard-house at Fort Bayard, New Mexico (where he had been confined by the civil authorities and was awaiting trial for murder), went to Hot Springs, where, on April 12, 18G8, u])on the approach of an escort, he shot himself under the mouth with a rifle. The patient denied all attempts at suicide, and alleged the shooting to be accidental. Soon after the occurrence he was conveyed to Eio Membres for better attendance, being very much exhausted and in a doubtful condition. The chin and most of the inferior maxillary were carried away, the superior maxillaries were fractured, and the soft parts, including the tongue, were badly lacerated and burned. The loss of voice was complete; and the whole buccal cavity, being exposed, presented a hideous appearance. The wound was carefully washed, and numerous small fragments of bone, impacted in the soft tissues, were removed. Sim^ile dressings Avere applied, anodynes and stimulants Avere prescribed, and a nourishing liquid diet was administered by means of a syringe, owing to the patient's inability to swallow. On the 14th the patient was sent to the post hospital at Fort Cummings, New Mexico. An operation was delayed " for fear of extensive suppuration, sloughing of some unseen fragments of bone, &c., which would interfere very much Avith cicatrization." On the night of the 16th the jiatient sufi'ered severe pain. The stimulants, anodynes, and nourishing diet were continued, and the wound was frequentlj' cleansed with a weak solution of carbolic acid. On the 19th several fragments of bone Avere remoA^ed, after which the pain abated. On the 20th three of the upper incisors fell out. On the 25th an operation was resolA'ed upon, when the patient was, with difficulty, rendered insensible by chloroform, his tongue having first been secured by a thread passed through the tip. The stages in the operation Avere as folloAV: 1st. Eemoval by dissection of two large pieces of the superior maxillaries. 2d. EemoA^al by dissection of a large piece of the inferior maxillary, fractured on the right side, to a level Avith the coronoid process. 3d. On the left side, incision extending from the posterior i^art of the coronoid process to the labial commissure, and excision of the.bone By saw and pliers to a level with that process. (This procedure was preferably adopted to entire disarticulation of the bone, in order to leaA^e some support to the soft Ijarts.) 4th, Paring the edges of the wound and keeping them approximated by interrupted suture, after which the deformity of the face was not very considerable. The patient was kept two and a half hours under the influence of chloroform, and seemed to stand it A'cry well. His efforts to speak were somewhat intelligible. His general condition was good, but he suffered a good deal from pain in the morning, attended with feA'er which exacerbated toward the afternoon. The details of the treatment up to May 15th, at which time he Avas able to walk round the ward, are unimportant, except that the sutures gaA^e way entirely, and that sticking plaster and appropriate bandages were substituted. Attempting to escape on the night of the 23d, he was confined in the guard-house; but on the 25th was taken back to hospital, where, on the 27th, a small fragment of bone was removed during the dressing. His condition was good; but great difficulty was experienced in feeding him. After this ineffectual attempt to escape he declined rapidly, owing, no doubt, to a complete absence of any hope whatever for escaping trial, and he died on June 2, 1868, of exhaustion.