141 DISLOCATIONS. ation forward of the sternal extremity of the right clavicle, the end of the bone being advanced about the one-sixth of an inch beyond its proper level. He complained of pain at the seat of injury, and there was some tumefaction, as well as tenderness on pressure. I reduced the displaced bone, and applied Fox's apparatus for fractured clavicle. Compresses were also placed over the seat of injury. The apparatus, which was made of stout materials, so long as it was worn and kept moderately tight, maintained the bone in place admirably well, but when it was removed, or became slack, the bone was again displaced. He wore the apparatus until February 28th, a period of two months, when I removed it, and finding that no improvement had taken place, I omitted its further use, believing that if an apparatus does no good for two months after the injury, a reposition of the displaced bone is not to be anticipated. The unsuccessful result of treatment in this case accords with the experience of the best surgeons. Nevertheless, the patient will most probably have a very useful arm, as, according to the best authorities, the functions of the limb in these injuries are but slightly impaired. The ultimate result will be made known at a future time. Dislocations at the /Shoulder.—Since the general adoption of the methods of reduc- tion by manipulations under anaesthesia, cases of this class have seldom presented difficulties, unless complicated by fracture, or unless the attempt to reduce was too long postponed. Though the accident was common enough, especially in the cavalry, the particulars were rarely reported. CCCCXLV.—Report of a Case of Irreducible Luxation of the Head of the Humerus. By W. B Lyon, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Edward Logan, Co. H, 38th Infantry, was admitted to the post hospital at Fort McEae, New Mexico, on July 31, 1868, having dislocated his right humerus into the axilla, by falling from the tongue of an Army wagon on July 1st; at the same time he received severe flesh wounds on the head and face from mule kicks. No attempt had been made at reduction. On August 2d, he was placed under chloroform, and manipulation and extension employed for two hours without success. Another attempt was made on the 13th with iiulleys, and persisted in for two hours, with the same result. He was discharged for disability November 27, 1868. CCCCXLYI.—Note relative to a Dislocation at the Shoulder-joint. By W. S. Adams, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Thomas Ford, 5th Cavalry, aged 27 years, while wrestling with a comrade at Mor- gantown. North Carolina, on September 15, 1867, had his left arm dislocated, the head of the humerus being thrown downward and forward beneath the pectoral muvscles. The dislocation was reduced by manipulation (Eeed's method), and the joint was supi)orted by a figure-of-eight bandage. On October 1st the i)atient was returned to duty, with good use of the limb. Dislocations at the Elbow.—Of the nine varieties of luxations of the ulna and radius upon the humerus, a special report of one only was given ; a case of complete luxation backward of the bones of the fore-arm. CCCCXLVII.—Extract from the Monthly Report from Hoicner^s Station, Kansas, for January, 1868. By L. Y. LoRiNG, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. The case of dislocation entered on the report was that of a soldier of Co. E, 5th Infantry, and was one of displacement of the elbow of the right arm, in which the ulna ami radius were thrown backward upon the posterior surface of the humerus, i)roduciug a characteristic deformity, easy