263 EEMOVAL OF TUMOES. tlien commeneed, upon advice of dilferent physicians and surgeons, to apply different remedies, caustic or emollient, acid or alkaline, until, I think, the whole round of acids, alkalies, metalloids, and autiseptics had each a chance. In the spring of 1868,1 determined to have a surgical operation tried, and after advice from two sources, one in favor of a strong caustic, and the other of the knife. This required cutting through the lip down to the external mark, and removing quite a large piece of what was thought to be diseased membrane. At that time the smaller place in front and centre of the lip, which you afterward removed, was supposed to be curable, * * * March, 1870, I showed it to you, determined to have it out if you so advised, I am glad to say that you did advise it." * * * * * * " * DCOXI.—Report of a Case of Medidlarij Cancer at the Angle of the Lower Jaiv. By J. E. Eeily, M. 1)., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Michael Keilly, Ordnance Detachment, Washington Arsenal, aged 27 years, was admitted into the hospital on February 5, 1870. A large medullary carcinoma involved the artic- ulation of the lower maxilla on the right side, and had dislocated the condyle in its growth, and had extended inward above the palatine arcings, pushing down the soft palate, and almost tilling the fauces. The patient's pulse, skin, and secretions were normal, at the time of the operation to be described. His appetite was good; but he was unable to masticate or swallow solid food. On March 31, 1870, the patient having been placed under the auiiesthetic influence of sulphuric ether, an exploratory incision, three inches in length, was made, beginning immediately in front of the lobe of the right ear, and passing downward in the direction of the sterno-mastoid muscle. It was now found necessary to make a second incision, from the angle of the jaw to the angle of the mouth, the excision of the right ramus of the inferior maxillary being necessary to remove the tumor. The operators were Assistant Surgeon J. S. Billings, U. S. A.; Assistant Surgeon G. A. Otis, U. S. A.; and Surgeon Basil ISTorris, U. S. A. The patient continued in comfortable condition during the evening, taking liquid nourishment freely, and continued in good condition until about four o'clock on April 1st, when symptoms of tetanus set in, and, in spite of the usual remedies, he sank rapidly, and died at eight o'clock in the evening, April 1, 1870. [Assistant Surgeon Billings wrote out a more extended account of this operation, and yet a third report of the case was received. I)r. Eeilly's ofiacial statement gives the main facts and dates. Dr. J. J. Woodward had the kindness to make the draAvings represented by the wood- cuts (Figs. C5, 06), and to furnish the following- mem orand urn of the microscopical appearances: " Some rather large fragments of the tumor removedfrom Private Keilly havhig been brought to the Army Medical Museum, on the day of the operation, Avere examined by me while fresh, and subsequently sections stained Avith carmine were prepared by Dr. E, M. Schafier, and mounted in Canada balsam. These are preserved in the microscopical section of the museum, (Nos. 3500 to 3512 inclusive). The tumor was chiefly com- posed of a stroma of connective tissue, Avith large meshes, Avhich Avere filled with masses of small, loosely adherent, nucleated cells. In the perma- nently mounted sections the position and arrangement of the cells is indicated by that of the oval nuclei, which measure from ^-J^^ to of an inch in long diameter. In the fresh preparation the nuclei appeared rather larger, and each was seen to be contained in a delicate young cell. Fir. 65.—^Portion of section oi medullary carcinoma, ahowmg connec- tive tissue stroma with tlie nuclei ot the cell masses on either side Spec. 3500, Sect. Ill, A. M. M,; 740.