EEPOET OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 58 CLXXXVI.—Memorandum of a Gunshot Woiind of the Lumbar Region. By M. F. BoWES, M. D,, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private John Cosgrove, Co. F, 8tli Infantry, aged 23 years, was wonnclecl on Marcli 17, 1869. A conoidal bullet entered the right side of the back, near the lifth lumbar vertebra, passed for- ward and outward, and made its exit immediately over the anterior superior spinous i^rocess of the ilium. He was admitted to the post hospital of Columbia, South Carolina, on March 18, 1809. Simple dressings were applied. He was returned to duty in April, 1869. Gunshot Wounds of the Uppee Exteemities.—The reports are classified according as the lesions involved the scapula, clavicle, humerus, bones of the fore-arm, hand, or prin- cipal joints. The reports of cases in which operations were performed are reserved for the next, chapter. Gunshot Wounds of the Shoulder.—Eighteen special reports relate to four cases of fracture of the scapula, one of the clavicle and scalpula, one of the clavicle, one fatal from profuse hemorrhage, ten cases of flesh-wounds, and one wound of the joint with fracture of the humerus. CLXXXVII.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Shoulder. By F. Darrow, M. D,, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Martin Moulton, Troop E, 8th Cavalry, aged 22 years, was wounded on April 16,1869, near Camp Willow Grove, Arizona Territory, by a conoidal ball, which entered the right shoulder in front, striking the neck of the scapula immediately under the clavicle, i)assed downward, back- ward, and then upward, making seemingly a circuit around the neck of the scapula, and lodged in the infra-spinous fossa close to the glenoid cavity. He was admitted to the post hospital. On April 19tl), the wound had become painful, and somewhat inflamed, and the patient was unable to move the right arm or hand. The ball was cut down upon, and removed. On May 8th, the wound was suppurating freely. On May 12th, a rough and shelly i)iece of lead being dis- covered in the incised wound, was taken out, and on May 30th, a small jiiece of necrosed bone came away. On June 20th, the wound had healed, and on June 30th, there was partial use of arm. CLXXXVIII.—Mention of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Scapula. By A. C. Girard, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private William H. Goldsborough, Co. D, 24th Infantry, aged 24 years, was wounded on July 4, 1870, by a sentinel o\\ duty. A conoidal bullet passed oblicpiely through a panel-door, entering the soldier's right shoulder at the upper portion of the deltoid, and x)assiug backward, and slightly upward, fracturing in its progress the acromion process, lodging against the scapula. Ball not found. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort McKavett, Texas, on July 4, 1870. Sim[)le dressings were applied. He Avas returned to dutj' on September 22, 1870. He was treated by E. Sharpe, Acting Assistant Surgeon. This man when returned to duty was detailed on d;iily duty in the post library. So far he has no use of his right arm. CLXXXIX.—Mention of a case of Gunshot Wound of the Scapula. By S. M. Horton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. John Montague, citizen, aged 20 years, Mas wounded while sitting at a camp-fire, just outside the stockade of the fort, by Indians, on November 2, 186(), by a missile, supposed to be a slug from a shot-gun, wliich fractured the spine of the loft scai)nla, and wounded the left cheek. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Philip Kearney, IJakota Territory, on November 2, 186G. Simple dressings were ai^plied to the wound, He was discharged from hospital, cured, on Decern-- ber 2, 1866.