AMPUTATIONS OF THE THIGH. 207 DXC. Report of a Case in ivhich the Thigh and Leg were Amputated on account of Scorbutus. ■ Private Hugh Gleason, Co. A, 140tli New York Volunteers, was taken prisoner at Weldon Eailroad in August, 1864, and was confined at Salisbury, North Carolina, where, he affirms, on account of exposure and starvation, he contracted scurvy. When released, he received a furlough and went to his home at East Wilson, Niagara County, New York, where he was attacked ■with typhoid fever. On April 15, 1865, Doctor A. M. Leonard, of Lockport, New York, took charge of the patient. He found him suffering from scurvy, which, resulting in gangrene, necessitated the amputation of the right thigh at the middle third on April 25th, and the left leg at the lower third on June 7, 1865, both by the flap operation. He believes that the disease was caused as above stated. The patient was discharged on August 29, 1865, and was pensioned for total disability. On May 20, 1869, George B. Jewett, who furnished the patient with artificial limbs, reported the stumps sound. DXCI.—Report of a Case of an amputation of the Thigh for Gunshot Wound of the Knee-Joint. By J. M. Laing, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Sergeant David G , Troop M, 7th Cavalry, aged 25 years, while in command of pay- master's escort proceeding to Fort Lamed, Kansas, was accidentally wounded on November 17, 1870, when twelve miles from destination, by a conoidal carbine ball, which entered the right leg between the upper extremities of tibia and fibula, passed through the head of tibia, shattered the patella to pieces, and emerged through the inner condyle of femur. The outer condyle was also completely separted from the shaft, but this is attributed to the explosive force of the powder, the muzzle of the piece having been close to the joint when fired. The carbine was lying in the ambulance, and, being displaced by a jolt, the sergeant stooped over to adjust it when the accident occurred. Eight miles from destination, at 11.30 P. M., he was visited, and the wound dressed with lint, soaked in persulphate of iron, and bandages. On the ijatient's arrival at the fort the next morning he was chloroformed, and the wounds were examined, when, no fracture of the patella being discovered, and the man being of sound constitution, it was determined to try to save the limb. The wounds were thoroughly syringed out with a solution of carbolic acid, and dressed with successive layers of lint soaked in carbolic oil, and the limb was laid in pillows until the swelling should go down. On November 21st irritative fever had set in; there was a sanious discharge from the wound of entrance; the parts contiguous were in a sloughing condition, and the whole thigh, up to the buttock, was of a brownish color. Amputation in this condition not being deemed advisable, the dressings were removed, and the whole limb was enveloped in a yeast poultice. In a few days the irritative fever was subdued. The gangrenous parts about the wound of entrance having separated, and pus beginning to form in large quantities in the thigh, he was put on liberal diet, and syringing with carbolic acid solution, and carbolic oil dressings were again resorted to. Under this treatment the patient's health improved, and there being no instruments at the post fit for use, a note was dispatched on December 11th to W. S. Tremaine, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A., at Fort Dodge, requesting him to come over and bring his instruments. On the afternoon of the 13th htemorrhage set in, but was controlled by a tourniquet. The next morning. Doctor Tremaine having arrived, it was determined, on consultation, that amputation was inadmissible on account of loss of blood, but that an opening should be made toward the back of the thigh for the readier evacuation of the matter. While examining the thigh for this purpose hismorrhage, evidently from the femoral artery, recurred; and, as a last resource, he was rendered insensible with chloroform, and the thigh was amputated at the junction of the upper thirds by lateral flap operation. The femoral was ligated; bleeding from the other vessels was controlled by torsion. The flaps, after being thoroughly washed with strong solution of carbolic acid, were left open, and a tourniquet was loosely adjusted. The patient nearly died upon the table, and it was only after the employment of artificial respiration and ammonia that he rallied. His jjulse never rallied from the shock of the operation, death occurring on December 16th, fifty hours after. The extent of the injury was not discovered until after death. There having been no displace-