136 EEPOET OF SURGICAL OASES IN THE ARMY. seemed well nnited at the seat of fracture, and the patient was able to walk on erntches. The limb was shortened from one-half to tive eighths of an inch. McOanu was returned to duty in March, 1869. OOCCXXXI.—Abstract of a Beport of a Simple Fracture of the Upper Third of the Right Femur. By E. H. Bowman, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Lieutenant W. E. Sweet, Co. A, 24th Infantry, being thrown from a carriage on April 5, 1870, by a mule team running' away, had his right femur fraetured at the ui)per i^art of the middle third. He was taken to the post hospital at Fort Bliss, Texas, soon after the accident. The treatment consisted in bringing the fractured bones in apposition, securing by, splints and bandages, and plaeing the limb on a double-inclined plane. On the twenty-lirst day after the injury, I was discharged from attendance on the patient. The limb had less than the usual shortening. Drs. Marsh and White pronounced the shortening only one inch. The case had a favorable issue, and the lieutenant was returned to duty on July 11, 1870. CCCCXXXII.—Account of a Fracture of the Femur, supposed to he toithin the Capsule. By Irving C. RossE, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. About July, 1870, my professional attention was called to a female child of six years, an inmate of the laundress's quarters at Fort Monroe, Virginia, whom I at first believed, from the history given by its parents, to be suffering from infantile paralysis. Having the patient stripped, my attention was called by George E. Cooper, Surgeon, U. S. A., to the peculiar everted jjosition of the right foot, and the Inability to place it on the floor. Manipulation of the limb was exceed- ingly painful, and further examination revealing crepitus in the femur, fracture within the capsule ■was diagnosed. A fracture-bed was at once improvised; the limb was ijlaced on a pillow, and extension iiroduced by means of a weight of several pounds suspended over a pulley bj'^ a cord, Avhich was attached to the leg by broad bands of adhesive plaster. This mode of extension not being satisfactory, and productive of much discomfort to the little patient, I was induced to aban- don it after a few days and to try the anteiior wire splint with suspension. An appropriate one was made and applied, care being taken to bandage it firmly around the body, and to preserve the obliquity of the suspending cord. The remainder of the treatment was conducted on the iirinciples peculiar to fractures in general. Although this case did not get the attention I desired, owing to the carelessness and indifference of the mother, yet recovery, after a reasonable time, was com- plete. On May 10, 1871, Charles Smart, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A., Avrites that he found a perceptible shortening in the limb of one-fourth of an inch, but not enough to give anj- halt in the gait. Fractures of ihe Patella.—A single case was specially reported. The cause of injury was not mentioned, nor was the direction of the fracture described. It is hoped that hereafter medical officers will note such particulars in their reports.* CCCCXXXHL—AVi>o/t of a Case of Fracture of ihe Patella. By W. Ckaig, M, D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private George Johnson, Co. A, 40th Infantry, aged 24 years, received a fracture of the patella of the left leg on April 2, 1807. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Caswell, Xorth Carolina, on the 4th. The fragments were retained in close apposition by means of adhesive strips. He was discharged June 17, 1868. * Officers can consult;, in the Army Medical Museum, an excellent series of fractnres of the patella united by liouy or by ligauientons union. The are numbered 5353, 5354, 5355, 5364, 5413, 5414, 5415, Snnjlcal Scricx.—Ed.