GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE PELVIS. 55 Three examples of division of the external iliac artery were reported. The reader will observe here, as elsewhere, the very large proportion of gunshot wounds of arteries in accidents, assassinations, and suicides, in comparison with those received in battle. In other words, that the great arterial trunks are often divided at very close range by the small projectiles, but very rarely at long range. CLXXII.—Note of a Gunshot Wound of the Abdomen, with Lesion of the External Iliac Artery. By W. H. HoppEE, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeou. Private John Gerhardt, Co. K, 2d United States Infantry, aged 22 years, received on January 9, 1869, an accidental gunshot wound of the groin. He was admitted to the regimental hospital at Lebanon, Kentucky, immediately after reception of the injury, and died one hour afterward of haemorrhage, from a wound of the external iliac artery. CLXXIII.—Bemar'ks on a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Large and Small Intestines. By A. F. Fitch, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Corporal Eobert Ash, Co. E, 38th United States Infantry, aged 35 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Hays, Kansas, on October 21, 18G7, in an intoxicated condition, with a gun- shot wound of the abdomen. His pulse was small and feeble, and skin cold. He was very restless, and soon after being put to bed vomited several times. Morphine was administered, and he soon became comparatively quiet. Death resulted at 2 o'clock on the morning of the 22d. At the 2)ost- mortem examination, thirty-six ounces of fluid, tiuged with blood, were found in the abdominal cavity, together with a quantity of coagulated blood and some faecal matter. The ball, on entering the cavity, wounded the small intestines in two places, passed downward and backward through the sigmoid flexure of the colon, severed the external iliac artery completely, and the vein partially, then passed through the ilium immediately' below its anterior inferior spinous process, fracturing the acetabulum, and was found lodged in the gluteal muscles. CLXXIV.—Mention of a Gtinshot Wound of the Ahdomen, follotced hy instant Death. By B. A. Clejnients, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Winny Abbott, Co. K, 25th United States Infantry, committed suicide at Jackson Barracks, New Orleans, Louisiana, August 8, 1869, by shooting himself with his own musket. The ball entered the abdomen two inches above the pubis, and one inch to the left of the linea alba, passing through the rectus abdominalis muscle, cutting off the bowel, severing the left external iliac artery, and passing out posteriorly through the os iuuominatum. He expired immediately after receiving the wound. CLXXV.—Memorandtm of a Case of Double Gunshot Perforation of the Abdomen, tvitli Recovery. By L. Y. LoRiNG, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Charles Allen, Battery K, 1st Artillery, received, in a scuffle at Fort Eiley, Kansas, August, 1869, two pistol balls in his left side ; one entered five and a half inches left of the umbili- cus and two inches above crest of ilium, and made its exit two inches above the crest of the ilium on a line with, and two inches from, the fourth lumbar vertebra. The other ball entered four inches below and to the rear of the left nipple, making its exit four inches directly below point of entrance. In their passage these balls did not wound or pass through any of the viscera of the abdomen. With the exception of the traumatic fever, there was no disturbance in the health of the patient. The wounds have now almost healed, and there remains some contraction of the abdominal mus- cles-concerned in the wounds.