INCISED A^D PUNCTURED WOUNDS. 89 CCCI.—Mention of an Incised Wound of the Face. By 0. H. EowE, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. At Galveston, Texas, June 2, 1867, Eecruit John Barney, 6tli Cavalry, aged 20 years, received an incised wound of the lower lip, which was followed by profuse haemorrhage, which had con- tinued to the date of his admission to hospital, on June 4, 1867. Solution of persulphate of iron was applied to the wound, and the h:emorrhage being controlled, the parts were brought together, and the patient was returned to duty on the following day. CCCII.—Report of an Incised Wound of the NecJc. By J. P. Wright, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Patrick Pender, Co. H, 22d Infantry, received a fatal stab in the neck, from a soldier, on the evening of November 15, 1870, at Fort Sully, Dakota Territory. The man was dead when first seen by the post surgeon. The internal margin of the wound was two inches from the median line of the neck. It was rather more than an inch long, the slit in the integument extending in a direction outward and backward. The wound, upon dissection, was found to have passed abruptly backward, downward, and inward, into the thoracic cavity, penetrating in its course the sterno- cleido-mastoid and the deep cervical fascia and platysma. The deep veins of the ueck were found to have been deeply incised at a point corresponding with the junction of the internal jugular and left subclavian vein. Immediately posteriorly, the left subclavian artery was found to have been partially divided in that portion of the vessel interior to the insertion of the scalenus anticus. The left lung was penetrated antero-posteriorly through the apex of the upper lobe. The pene- trating instrument was finally arrested by impinging upon the vertebral column, at a point corre- sponding with the third costo-vertebral articulation, or with the union of the second and the third dorsal vertebrce. The depth of the wound from the surface was four inches, dividing the structures above mentioned, in a direction downward, backward, and inward. The left lung was found to be entirely collapsed and floating in a large quantity of coagulated blood and serum. The greater I)ortion of this fluid was removed, and measured five i^iuts. CCCIII.—Note Relative to Incised Wounds of tlie Neck and of the Arm. By C. E. Greenleaf, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John Cogan, Co. F, 2d Infantry, aged 21 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Taylor Barracks, Kentucky, May 26, 1868, with an incised wound four and a half inches long in the posterior cervical region in a direct line between the two mastoid processes. He also received a stab in the lower third of the left arm. The wounds were dressed with interrupted sutures and adhesive plaster. He was returned to duty June 13, 1868. CCCIV^.—Account of a Self-inflicted Wotmd of the Neck. By J. W. Williams, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Peter Jennings, Co. G, 6th Infantry, while in a drunken fit, at Ealeigh, North Caro- lina, attempted suicide by stabbing himself with a clasp knife in the region of the neck. The knife entered one inch below the cricoid cartilage, in the median line of the trachea, and took a direction downward and toward the left lung, the apex of which it penetrated. At first the haemorrhage was very violent, both from the mouth and the wound, inducing prompt syncope, and apparent death, leading the attending surgeon to believe death had actually occurred. The patient slowly revived, however, after a time, under the stimulating effects of strong ammonia. The haemorrhage was arrested by the prompt action of the steward, who injected a solution of persul- phate of iron into the wound and applied a compress over it. Emphysema ensued, and extended over the whole body in spite of careful bandaging. The resulting inflammation of the lung was easily subdued by cyanide of potassium, which had also the effect of arresting a troublesonie cough. The emphysema has now completely subsided, except in the scrotum, and the patient is in a fair way of recovery. [He returned to duty June 17, 1868.—Ed.] 12