EEPOET OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 14G through a small flstiilons openiug just above the superior end of the sternuin, the point of the arrow was found resting against the bone, about an inch and a half below, the head lying flat ngainstthe traehea and wsophagus, with the carotid artery, jugular vein, and nerves overlying. After some little difficulty, the point of the arrow was raised above the sternum, and it was extracted without the loss of an ounce of blood, the edge grating against the sheath of the innominata artery during the operation. The missile measured an iucli at the base, and was four inches long, (Fig. 22.) Its form is shown in the annexed wood-cut, nearly, but not accurately, of half the natural size; The patient, appearing highly gratified at the result, rode ^ _ ^ , , . . , ^ to his home. His health underwent a remarkable improvement, Fid. 22. Ii'on aiTow-liead extracted irom the . ^ ' chest. ,si)ec. 5C42, Sect. I, A. M. M. hihI iu J aiiuary, 1809, tlic operator reported him perfectly w^ell. CCCOLVI.—Report of a Case in tvMch the Patient received Floe Arroiv- Wounds, and was Scalped. By S. M. HoRTON, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Patrick D. Smith, of Co. H, 18th Infantry, was attacked about six miles from Fort Philip Kearney, Dakota Territory, ou the evening of September 26, 18G6, by three Indians, who inflicted five arrow-wounds, and removed iiart of his scalp. On the next morning he was seen bj^ two physicians. Two of the arrows still remained in his body—one in the right side below the region of the kidney ; the other had pierced the cartilage at the junction of the first rib with the sternum, inflicting a wound three inches in depth. The arrows were extracted, the wound dressed, and the patient supported until 10 o'clock the next morning, September 28th, when he expired. At the autopsy it was found that the wound in his chest had been the cause of death. The arrow had cut the edge of the right lung, and had inflicted a slight wound, one-eighth of an inch in length, in the descending vena cava. The right lung and surrounding tissues were considerably infiltrated with blood, and a large amount of coagulum was found in the cavity of the thorax. CCCOLVII.—Account of a Case of Fatal Wounds from Arroics. By 0. S. De Graw, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private James Spillman, Troop B, 7th Cavalry, aged 22 years, was wounded ou the morning of June 12, 18G7, about a mile from Fort Dodge, Kansas, by a party of Kiowa Indians, who made a dash upon the herd of horses he was guarding, and inflicted three arrow-wounds: The first in the right shoulder; the second in the right side, the arrow glancing from a rib, and making a wound similar to a stitch, about three inches in length; and the third through the right lumbar region, penetrating the abdominal cavity to a depth of about eight inches or more. The arrow causing the wound in the side was removed by cutting the arrow in two, and then drawing out the parts. The arrow in the lumbar region was removed with great difficulty. The wound being enlarged, two fingers were inserted on either side of the shaft until the base of the iron head was reached, the fingers thus inserted serving as a guide and as a protection to the parts, when, traction being made, the arrow was withdrawn. This latter wound proved mortal, the man dying the next day about 3 o'clock, P. M. His true name was Wise, of Washington. No post-mortem. The two arrows removed were contributed to the Army Medical Museum, and are numbered 5G51 in the Surgical Section. Arrow- Wounds of the Head and Neck.—Special reports of eight cases were received, In five, tlie cranial cavity was penetrated, and four of tlie patients perished. CCCCLVHI.—-Bei^or^ of an Arrow-Wound of the SJcuU. By C. O. Gray, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John Krumholz, of Co. H, 22d Infantry, was accidentally wounded at Fort Sully, Dakota, on June 3, 1869, by an arrow, which, entering at the outer canthus of the left eye, penetrated the skull to the extent of two inches, and is supposed to have passed between the