EEPORT OF SUKGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 60 CXCVII.—Account of a Gunshot Flesh-Wound of the Shoulder. By J, H. Patzki, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Samuel Wagoner, Co. A, 6tli Cavalry, aged 24 years, received, a gunshot flesh-wound of the left shoulder, by a conoidal ball, in action Avith Indians, near North Fork of Little AVichita Eiver, Texas, July 12, 1870. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Richardson, Texas, on the 11th, where simple dressings were applied. He was returned to duty on August 3d. CXCVin.—Rexwrt of a Gunshot Flesh- Wound of the Scapular Region. By Edwaed Cowles, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Corporal John Pilot, Co. L, 9th Cavalry, aged 26 years, was shot, by a sergeant, on December 27,1867, by a conoidal carbine bullet which caused a flesh-wound of the right scapular region, and inside of the right arm, below the axilla. He was admitted into the post hospital at Browns- ville, Texas, on December 27th. Simple dressings were apiflied. He was returned to duty in February, 1868. OXCIX.—Account of a Gunshot Wound of the Shoulder. P. Middleton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private William McCulla, Troop E, 1st Cavalry, aged 22 years, was wounded in a'drunkeu row at Prescott, Arizona Territory, December 18, 1867, by a conoidal ball, which entered at the centre of the belly of the biceps muscle, passed upward and inward toward the shoulder-joint, thence beneath the scapula, and lodged under the deep muscles, about two inches from the first dorsal vertebra. He was admitted to post hospital at Camp Whipple, Arizona Territory. On December 26th, I made an incision and removed the ball. Healthy suppuration then followed, and the patient did well. On February 5, 1868, he was transferred to Camj) McDowell, where his com- I)any was stationed. CC.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Flesh-Wound of the Shoulder. By F. Geisdorff, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Corporal Merritt E. Brown, Co. A, 27th Infantry, aged 22 years, received on August 4, 1868, an accidental gunshot wound. A bullet, ploughing the skin and muscles underneath, caused a wound five inches long, two inches wide, and one inch deep, superior and parallel to the spine of scapula of the left shoulder. He was admitted to the i)Ost hospital at Fort Philip Kearney, Dakota Territory, on the same day. Cold-water dressings were applied. He was transferred to the field hosx)ital of a detachment of the 27th United States Infantry, nearly recovered. CCI.—Memorandtm of a Case of Gunshot Flesh- Wound of the Shoulder. By J. H. Patzki, Assist- ant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Albert Ford, Co. H, 6th Cavalry, aged 42 years, received a gunshot flesh-wound of the left shoulder by a conoidal ball, in an action with Indians, near the North Fork of Little Wichita River, Texas, July 12, 1870. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Richardson, Texas, on the 14th, and carbolic acid dressings applied. He was returned to duty on August 19th. ecu.—Note of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Shoulder and Thigh. By E. Powell, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. At Camp Warner, Oregon, December 3, 1867, Private John Ryan, Co. B, 23d Infantry, aged 20 years, was accidentally wounded by the discharge of his own pistol, while stumbling and falling- over rocks. The missile, a conoidal ball, inflicted a wound of the left shoulder and thigh, and remained in the shoulder behind the head of the humerus. He was admitted to the post hospital on the same day, where the ball was excised. Cold-water dressings were applied. He returned to duty January 20, 1868.