GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE UPPER EXTEEMITIES. 61 OCIir.—Memorandum of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Shoulder. By Thomas S. Tuggle, M, D., Acting Assistaut Surgeon. At Columbus, Georgia, January 7, 1868, Private Durant, Co. G, 16th Infantry, received a I)istol wound in the fleshy part of the right shoukler by a round ball. He was admitted into the post hospital on the same day, where the ball was excised and simple dressings were applied. He was returned to duty January 19, 1868. CCIV.—Abstract of a Beport relative to a Gunshot Wound of the Shoulder-Joint. By B. B. Wilson, M. D., late Surgeon and Brevet Lieutenant Colonel, U. S. V. Private James Curry, Co. M, 20th Pennsylvania Cavalry, was discharged the service on surgeon's certificate of disability, June 28, 1865. He had been wounded in the late war by a conoidal bullet, which fractured the upper extremity of the humei'us, involving the surgical and probably the anatomical neck, and had lodged upon the external margin of the scapula. The missile having been retained in that position for more than three years, and the patient having become exhausted, nervous, and irritable from i^ain and suppuration, was induced to have the ball removed. On November 27, 1867, he presented himself at the Howard Hospital, Philadelphia. There was complete anchylosis of the shoulder-joint, with enlargement of the upper portion of the humerus; several cicatrices existed in the region of the joint and scapula, and a fistulous orifice at the -inferior angle of the scapula discharged tolerably healthy pus. Examination with a Nelaton probe revealed the presence of the ball; the sinuous orifice was enlarged, and the ball, which clung with tenacity to the edge of the scapula, was extracted. The fistulous orifice closed immediatelj^ after the removal of the missile. At the time of this report, April, 1868, the patient had a very useful arm, the great mobility of the scapula seeming to compensate for the anchylosis of the shoulder- joint. Tlie missile, a conoidal ball split by contact with the humerus, and having adherent small portions of bone, is represented in the wood-cut, and was presented to the Army Medical Museum, with the history, by the operator. Fig. 10. Conoidal ball grooved by impact upon the liumerus. ,Spec. 5257. Sect. I., A.M.M. Gunshot Wounds of the Arm.—Special reports were received of four cases of gunshot fractures of the humerus. COV.—Mention of a Gunshot Fracture of the Humerus. By T. M. Chaney, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Samuel Bailey, Co. C, 12Sth Colored Troops, was shot by a sentinel on March 7, 1867, causing a compound comminuted fracture of lower third of the right liumerus. The ball entered at the i)oint of the external condjde, traversed the arm, making its exit one inch above the internal condyle. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Macon, North Carolina, on March 8, 1867. Simple dressings were applied. He was discharged the service May 21, 1867. CCVI.—Report of a Gunshot Fracture of the Neclc of the Humerus. By H. G. Tiedman, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private James Sumner, Troop G, 1st Cavalry, was wounded in an action with Apache Indians, in Chilicowley Mountain Pass, Arizona, October 8, 1869. The missile entered under the scapu- lar clavicular articulation, passed through the deltoid downward, shattered the neck of the humerus, barely avoiding the brachial artery, and forced its way out of the triceps muscle. Two pieces of the neck of the humerus were extracted on the field. On October 9th, he was admitted to the hospital at Camp Bowie, Arizona Territor^^, where another piece of bone was extracted. He was returned to duty in November, 1869.