EEPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 264 Some of the fragments yielded sections, in wliicb tbe structnre of the parotid gland conld be distinctly made out, the nltimate lobules of tbe gland being pushed apart by a soft librillated connective tissue, in which unmerous small cells similar to those of tbe rest of the growth abounded. Tbe same sections passed through portions of the masseter mnscle, the connective tissue of which was similarly infdtrated, the bundles of fibres, and, in some instances, the individual flbi'es being pnsbed apart by the new formation. Nos. 3501 and 3502 show this con- dition of the parotid and muscle very well. In places the parotid lobules are perfectly normal, and their epithelium well shown in the pre- parations, but pushed apart by the medullary infiltration; iu other ])arts the tissue of the parotid is obscured by the new growth, and appears to pass gradually into it. The tumor I , i_ is to be regarded as a rapidly developing Fic;. (i.i.-j>.„tion oi-saiMc. siu . i„u i,, .sh>,« in^^ jKutiou of Hvemuscuill mcdullary carciuoma, involving the parotid and libvos, witli nuclei of cancer cells in tlie intervening connective tissue, the adjacent partS."J Spec. 3500, Sect. Ill, A. M. M. " ' UCCXII.—Account of an Encephnloid Tumor at the Angle of the Jau\ From information furnished by C. H. Laub, Surgeon, U. S. A. In December, 1804, William P , aged sixty-two years, thirty of which were passed in the Army of the United States, an inmate of the Soldiers' Home, at Washington, complained of a small indolent swelling under the left angle of the lower jaw. The tumor was painted with tincture of iodine for about three weeks, but its growth was not.arrested. The iiatient then left the asylum to return after an absence of three mouths. During this period the tumor increased rapidly in bulk. In October, 1SG5, its attachments extended from the mastoid process of the left temporal backward to Avithin half an inch of the spinous process of the upper cervical vertebra?, upward over the occipital bones and the ramus of the inferior maxilla, and downward along the sterno-cleido-mastoideus to within two inches of the middle of the clavicle, deflecting the trachea and oesophagus to the right. The tumor was regarded as a malignant one, and in view of the great danger that its extirpation would involve and tbe probability of its recurrence, operative interference was decided against, The tumor enlarged rapidlj', greatly impeding respiration and deglutition, and there was grave constitutional disturbance. On October 22, 1SG5, the patient died. The tumor was removed. post-mortem, by Assistant Surgeon J. S. Billings, U. S. A. A microscopical examination of the growth, by Doctors Billings and Curtis, proved it to be of a cancerous nature. It is preserved in the Surgical Section of the Army Medical Museum as No. 4961. Photograph 102, Surgical Series A. M. M., represents the appearance of the tumor a few weeks before the fatal termination. DCCXIII.—On a Case of ScirrJms of the Mamma, treated Ijy Ablation, and Internally hy the Decoction of Cundurango. By Basil'NoivRis, Surgeon, U. S. A. The specimen of scirrhus of the mamma, which I sent to the Medical Museum, was removed September 14, 1S69, from the breast of a servant woman, 42 years of age. Four years previously she requested me to examine a small tumor in the right mamma, near the nipple. It was not then larger than a filbert. An elliptical incision made to include the morbid growth embraced one-half of the gland, and a portion of skin in the direction of the axilla. In the endeavor to remove " every trace of the disease," it was necessary to dissect off the fascia from a small si)ace covering