GUITSHOT WOUNDS OF THE HEAD. 9 lived after receiving the wound, but think that the time was not more than a few minutes. I saw him at the place where he was shot about two and a half hours after." XII. —Report of a Perforating Gunshot Wound of the Head. By J. Y. De Hanne, Assistant Sur- geon, U. S. A. Private Edward Hogan, Co. B, 33d United States Infantry, was shot through the head and killed in the city of Huntsville, February 21, 1869, between 12 and 1 o'clock A. M. His remains were removed to Chattanooga, Tennessee, for interment in the national cemetery, on February 22, 1869. A post-mortem examination exhibited a perforating gunshot wound. The ball entered on the left temporal ridge, one and a half inches posterior to the left temporal emineuce; exit at the middle of the right lambdoidal suture, one inch posterior and below the right parietal eminence; an exten- sive fracture of the frontal, left parietal, and occii)ital bones. XIII. —Memorandum of a Case of Gunshot Fracture of the Shiill. By Dr. A. Judson Gray, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Matthew Eegau, Co. G, loth United States Infantry, aged 28 years, Avas accidentally wounded at Fort Bayard, New Mexico, January 3, 1870, by a conoidal ball, which lacerated the scalp and fractured the cranium. He was admitted to the post hospital, where spiculpe of bone were removed and simple dressing was applied; inflammation of the brain followed, and death occurred on February 16, 1870, forty-four days after the reception of the injury. XIV. —Report of a Perforating Gunshot Fracture of the 8l ull. By Redford Sharpe, M. D., Acting- Assistant Surgeon. At Fort McKavett, Texas, December 22,1SG9, Brevet Captain Frederick W. Smith, 9th United States Cavalry, was killed by the accidental discharge of a pistol, in his own hands. The ball entered through the right parietal, and caused a very extended fracture of exit, involving the occipital, left parietal, temporal, and frontal, and making a large aperture, through which over two ounces of brain tissue escaped. The officer survived the injury about seven minutes. The next four cases are instances of almost immediate death from perforations of the skull by balls : XV. —Note of a Case of Perforation of the Brain ly a Muslcet Ball. By J. H. McMahon, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Jeremiah Daniels, Co. I, 9th United States Cavalry, aged 26 years, was accidentally wounded at Fort Davis, Texas, on January 31, 1868, by a conoidal ball, which entered the right orbit, and emerged through the superior posterior portion of the right parietal bone. He died in three minutes from the reception of the injury. XVI. —Wote of a Case of Perforation of the Sknll and Division of the Carotid Artery by a Pistol-Ball. By Dr. William M. Austin, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private John Kimball, Co. A, 35th United States Infantry, died at Fort Bliss, Texas, on December 5,1867, from the effects of a pistol-shot wound, received in an affray at Franklin, Texas. The ball entered midway between the right angle of the lower jaw and the lobe of the right ear, passed forward, inward, and upward and came out immediately above the zygomatic process of the left temporal bone midway between the ear and the external angle of the eye. The internal carotid and jugular veins of the right side were severed. 2