SURGICAL DISEASES. 273 on November 1st, while throwing heavy weights backward over his head. He had been a stont, robust man, but on admission was completely pulseless from the loss of blood by repeated emesis, sufficient to fill a common water bucket once and a half. I transfused blood to the amount of two and a half ounces into the median basilic vein; opium and morphine were administered by the mouth, cutis, and rectum every hour for over three days, in order to subdue the cough, which brought an renewed haemorrhages. An equivalent to sixty-four grains of opium was administered within the first twenty-four hours. Nourishment was given by enemata of whiskey, quinine, beef- juice, and laudanum. The patient gradually recovered under this treatment, although for several days the result was extremely doubtful. He was discharged in the latter part of the month ; he could sleep only in a chair, not being able to breathe in the horizontal posture. There was constant cough and gnawing pain in sternum near third right rib, and some hepatization of right lung. Aneurismal fremitus was occasionally^ perceptible to the ear; nevertheless the i)atient was gradually gaining strength. DCOXXVI.—Beimrt of a Case of Lumbar Abscess. By J. F. Head, Surgeon, U. S. A. Charles O , a private of Battery H, 3d Artillery, aged 33 years, and unmarried, served in the field during the rebellion with 1st or 2d Connecticut Heavy Artillery, and rei^nlisted as a veteran volunteer in 1803. In 1864 he suffered from typhoid fever, for which he was sent to general hospital at Baltimore, Maryland, where he was very ill for some time. During convalescence he felt pain in back, accompanied by swelling, which he attributed to long lying on his back. An abscess was opened in right lumbar region, and a quantity of j)us, estimated by himself at " more than a quart," was evacuated. The abscess healed rapidly, and, returning to his regiment, the man was mustered out in 18G5. In February, 1866, he enlisted in the 3d United States Artillery. He was not reported sick, except three days' diarrhoea in August, 1867, until November 28, 1867, when he complained of pain in the lumbar region, and was treated for rheumatism, with counter- irritants, salts of potassa, and electricity, and returned to duty December 24,1867. After five days duty returned to hospital, and was treated much as before for rheumatism. Eeturned to duty January 11, 1868. Eeadmitte'd March 21st with same symptoms. Treated by tincture of iodine externally, dry cups, and tonics. The disease was recognized as lumbar abscess. On April 22d, an incision, about midway between third lumbar vertebra and crest of right ilium, gave exit to less than ah ounce of apparently healthy pus. The opening healed, and he again returned to duty on June 21st. On the 28th of April, it is recorded that his weight has decreased from 145 to 121 pounds. On July 4, 1868, he reentered hospital, which he never left until his death. The abscess had reopened, and on July 8th is recorded as discharging about two ounces in twenty-four hours. Nourishing diet, wine, and quinine were prescribed. The case first came under my observation about July 16, 1868. The patient appeared to be gradually failing, the amount of discharge varying, l)us never offensive, nor could any denuded bone be detected by the probe. There was never any tenderness upon strong pressure or percussion over the spinous processes of verfeebrte., nor did the nervous power of the lower extremities ever seem impaired during the course of the disease. The thighs were flexed upon the trunk, and attempts to extend them caused pain, which was referred chiefly to the hip-joint and back. Emaciation was marked; countenance sunken and sallow; tongue moist and florid; appetite capricious; bowels generally regular, about one dejection in forty-eight hours; occasionally required a simple cathartic. The case progressed without note- worthy incident or variation until about the middle of October, when some swelling, accompanied by i)ain, was observed in left lumbar region. Tincture of iodine applied. Swelling increased, decided fluctuation observed, and on November 2d an incision, under cover of a rag soaked in carbolic acid and linseed oil one part to sev^en, evacuated about twenty ounces of abominably foetid pus. The opening was covered with antiseptic putty," after Lister's method. The discharge soon lost entirely its offensive smell, the quantity daily evacuated decreased from eight ounces to two, the original opening on the right side nearly closed, and ceased to furnish any discharge. For a time the patient seemed to rally somewhat. At about the same time with the appearance of last named swelling, oedema of the feet was observed, which afterward extended to the thighs, and 3?) .