130 EEPORT OF SURGICAL OASES IN THE ARMY. riG. II). rrat-tm-e of body of fifth cervical vertebra. Spec. 5724. Sect.I.A. M. M. acute in the left tlian in the right leg. The patient complaining of feeling dead below the neck, the spine was carefully examined. No irregularity was found, but there was tenderness over the sixth cervical vertebra. A sinnpisui was applied to the nape of the neck, and in an hour he requested to be turned over. At 5 o'clock P. M. the pulse was 104; respiration 18; temperature 105째. The patient was directed to hold small pieces of ice in his mouth; tlje same was api)lied to the upper portion of the spine, and a saline aperient was prescribed. At 9 o'clock, the pulse was 100; respiration 24; temperature 102째. The urine was drawn off with a catheter, and the patient was placed on a water bed. On the morning of July 4th, the pulse, respira- tion, and temperature Avere all diminished. The cold applications to the spine were continued in the form of ice-cold water; a special diet was ordered; and the catheter was used twice during the day. At 5 o'clock the bowels were moved involuntarily. On July 5tli, there was considerable diminution of the temperature, sensation was wanting in the lower extremities, and respiration was abdominal. Tonics, nutritious diet, and dry rubbings were prescribed. On the Gth, sensation had partly returned in the left leg, and the breathing was better, there being more movement of the (;hest. By the 11th, the patient was able to pass his urine without a catheter, but there was no improvement in the sensibility of the right leg. The pulse, respiration, and tempera- ture had diminished. On the morning of the loth ho had a chill, which recurred on the morn- ing of the 17th, and again in the afternoon. After this his countenance became dusky, and there was a rise in the temperature. He had not perspired since the injury. On the morning of the 18th the urine became turbid, the patient complained of his lungs feeling like stone, and his stomach was irritable. By the morning of the 20th, the pulse had become so feeble that it could not be counted, the bowels were loose, the urine "was ammoniacal and thick with mucus, and he had an attack of vomiting. These symptoms were followed by increased respiration and a very high temperature, (105째.) The patient, at this time, was again able to pass his urine without the use of a catheter, but on the 21st this instrument was used with difficulty, owing to the formation of clots in the bladder. The patient also suffered from decubitus, and bj^ July 24th his stomach became so irritable as to retain scarcely anything. On the day following his appetite was entirely gone. On the 2Gth, the temperature was 91.8째. He died at noon on the 28th. At the post-mortem the brain was found perfectly healthy, so far as the unaided senses could determine. The spinal cord showed nothing abnormal in the dorsal region, except the fluid which escaped. This was filled with transparent, float- ing globules resembling volatile oil water. The body of the fifth cervical vertebra Avas fractured, and it was ascertained that hfemorrhage had compressed the cord at and around the seat of fracture. There was no displacement of the ver- tebra. The lungs were healthy, except the pos- terior portions, Avhich were hypostatically con- gested. The liver was slightly enlarged, the splenic extremity of the stomach congested, and the kidneys were en- larged and gorged with Fig. -20. Thermograph of a fatal ca.se of fracture of the fifth cervical vertebra.