AMPUTATIONS AT THE SHOULDEE-JOINT. 189 tlie patient rallied well from tbe effects of the ausestlietic. Sedatives were given at bedtime. On July Gth, he had been very restless during the previous night, his skin was dry and hot, the pulse one hundred and ten and feeble, and respiration twenty-eight; there was an offensive sanious discharge from the wound, and great pain. Stimulants and tonics were given, and the wound was washed with a lotion of carbolic acid and water. This treatment (with an injection on the 8th, which caused a good fiecal dischai"ge) was continued with great impi-ovement in the condition of the patient; and, on the 12th, three small ligatures came away, leaving only the brachial, and the wound was rapidly closing. On the ISth, the ligature of the brachial came awaj% and from that time he steadily improved. By August 1st, the cicatrix was complete and firm, and a good stumj) had formed. He remained in hospital until near the middle of August, when he was sent home. On examination of the humerus after disarticulation, it was found shattered into fragments, with fissures running down the shaft and upward into the cancellated structure of the head of bone. DXLVI.—Eeport of a Successful Secondary Amputation at the Shoulder-Joint for Gunshot Injury. By Charles Smart, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private James B. Farrington, Co. K, 32d Infantry, aged 36 years, was accidently wounded April 27, 1867, by the discharge of a fowling piece,.six revolver bullets entering the left arm and shoulder, posteriorly fracturing the left humerus and scapula, and severely injuring the soft parts. He was admitted to the post hospital, at Camp Lowell, Arizona Territory, on the same day. The patient.became exhausted from excessive suppuration of wound, and the limb entirely useless on account of injury to nerves. On August 27, 1867, an excessive hfemorrhage, supposed to be from the axillary artery, occurred. Several unsuccessful attempts having been made to secure this artery, and taking into consideration the uselessuess of the arm, it was decided to amputate at the shoulder-joint, which was accordingly done, after rendering the ijatient insensible with chloroform. Water dressings, nourishing diet, and stimulants were used. He was returned to duty March 10, 1868. DXLVII.—Primary Amimtation at the Shoiilder-Joint for Gunshot Injury, having a Fatal Termination. By Owens, M. D. John Collins, Co. 1,17th Infantry, was admitted to the hospital at Camp Schofleld, Lynchburg, Virginia, about two o'clock on the morning of September 11, 1869, with a gunshot comminuted. fracture of the upper third of the right humerus. It is believed that the gun was loaded with ball and buckshot or slugs, as fally one-third of the upper portion of the bone was shattered to its head and the integuments for more than that distance were severely torn, although, strange to say, the main artery was untouched. He had lost a great amount of blood; and this, together with the shock to his nervous system, precluded operative interference until reaction. The patient reacted very slowly ; and, at five o'clock in the evening, deeming it inadvisable to wait any longer, I, upon invitation, amputated at the shoulder-joint, by flap operation, with neatness and dispatch. The patient lost but little blood ; but, some hours after, his pulse began to fail rapidly, death superven- ing at half past six o'clock the next morning, thirty hours after being shot. The case is reported by the operator. DXLVIII.—Report of a Successful Primary Amp^itation at the Shoulder-Joint for Eaihcay Injiiry. By W. F. Buchanan, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Alexander Terry, Co. E, 38th Infantry, met with a. severe railway injury on the L'nion Pacific Eoad, a short distance from Fort Hays, Kansas, for which he was admitted to the hospital, on October 16, 1868. There was a compound comminuted fracture of the left arm, the bone being extensively comminuted with both extremities fractured longitudinally. The soft parts were much lacerated, the little finger was torn off the left hand, and the patient suffered much from the shock of injury. Being comfortably arranged in bed, and precautions liaving been taken to prevent hieniorrhage during the night, an anodyne was administered, and the patient slept well. On the 17th