219 EXCISIONS. Twenty-nine special reports of cases of excision were made ; five were excisions of the bones of the head ; sixteen of the upper extremities, and eight of the lower extremities. Among excisions I include operations for trephining, and for removal of parts of the bones of the face. This classification must, I think, be hereafter adopted, although systematic authors have heretofore generally restricted the term " excisions " to the removal of the articular extremities, or of portions of the shafts of the long bones. EXCISIONS OF THE BONES OF THE HEAD. Trephining.—Two successful cases of this nature were reported. DOXIII.—Report of a Compound Fracture of the SJcull, treated successfullij hy Trephining. By A. 0. GiRARD, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Jolin Higgins, Co. I, 20th Infantry, aged 23 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Baton Rouge, Louisiana, March 9,1869, with a compound fracture of the skull from a brick-bat. At the junction of the left parietal and frontal bones, near the sagittal suture, was a slight depres- sion of bone, of the size of a five-dollar gold piece; the wound of the scalp was two inches long, and the periosteum was destroyed. The wound was cleaned, and light diet ordered. On March 10th, fever set in with violent headache, and the pupils became dilated. Chloroform was admin- istered, a transverse incision elongating the wound was made. The bone was found depressed in a triangular shape, the deepest depression being toward the forehead ; the skull was then perfo- rated with the largest of drills, expecting by breaking through the communication between the crack and the hole with a chisel to have sufiicient room for elevation. The elevator was then introduced, but failed to raise the depression. The smaller trepan was then applied, using the drill hole for the point of the trepan, and three-fourths of the depression were removed, exposing the dura mater. The ragged edges of the hole were pared down, a few splinters removed, the wound well cleaned, and the edges of the scalp united by suture and ichthyocolla plaster. The patient bore up well under the operation, the latter j^art of which was performed after his return to conscious- ness, as he had shown some alarming signs while being put a second time under the influence of chloroform. Ice was applied to the head, and calomel in small doses was given. On March 11th the patient felt tolerably well, but still suffered some headache ; on the following day there was erysipelatous swelling of the left eye ; no headache. March 14th the patient complained of want of rest, and shooting i)ain through left eye. There was a little discharge from the wound, and the incision began to fill with granulations. Thence steady improvement took jilace, and on March 30th the wound had nearly closed. This man was returned to dnty in May, 1869. DCXIV.—Report of a Case of Fracture of the Skull treated by Trephining.—By Ira Perry, Assistant Surgeon, 9th Colored Troops. ' Jesus Soldaco, a Mexican, while at a drunken revel in Brownsville, Texas, June 1, 1866, was struck with the stock of a gun, which caused extensive contusion and fracture of the skull from the external angle of the orbit of left eye toward the occiput. The fracture could be traced through the scalp a distance of six inches. About one inch from the orbital angle was a portion of bone one and a half by three-quarters of an inch, which was depressed one-fourth of an inch, and was loose. The patient was admitted to the post hospital totally unconscious, with pulse slow and very feeble. The case being considered hopeless, water dressings only were applied; on the third day, the patient being still alive, the trephine was applied, and fragments of bone elevated; three days