216 EEPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IK THE ARMY. tlie outer part of tlie thigli. A piece of cloth was removod from the cavity of the abscess. On May 25, 18G5, this sohlicr was sent to regimental heathjnarters at Fort Washington. Abscesses, which Acting Assistant Surgeon J. H. Bayne endeavored to drain by setons, continued to form within the tissues of the stump. In October, 18G5, the patient received an artificial limb, but could not use it without discomfort. During the winter, the stump was irritable and tender. On January 12, 18GG, the regiment changing station, Fabry was discharged on surgeon's certificate of disability, and was received at Soldiers' Home, January 31, 186G. The remnant of the femur was affected by osteomyelitis, and Surgeon Laub, U. S. A., had frequent occasion to have the stump poulticed and abscesses opened. October 27, 18GG, Assistant Surgeon J. S. Billings, U. S. A., made an exploratory and palliative operation, cutting down on the outer aspect of the thick involucrum, a little below the trochanter major, trephining over one of the cloacii?, and discovering a sequestrum, consisting of the shaft of the femur. Fabry was pensioned, and remained at Soldiers' Home for the next three years, suffering acutely, at times, from suppuration in the stump, and again enjoying intervals of comparative comfort. The general health did not give way materially under the protracted suppuration. The patient was exempt from albuminuria, and the viscera generally were in a normal condition. The nervous system seemed shattered, a result ascribed to the inordinate doses of narcotics which the patient consumed. When suffering from the abscesses in his stump, Fabry would beg that an amputation should be practiced; but, as soon as the pain was mitigated, his resolution would fail. Finally, he made up his mind to undergo the operation, and, on May 15, 1870, I exarticulated at the hip, and removed the stump.* The single anterior-flap procedure was used, only the flap was cut from without inward, because the great masses of foliaceous callus enveloping the njiper third of the femur precluded trans- fixion. The accompanying wood-cut will indicate the extent of these osseous forma- FlG. 43.—An unusually largo inrolucruin, from a case of clironic osteoiny- tiOUS. Fabry had a rather rapid COUValCS- elitis. Spec. 5684, Sect. I, A. M. M. ^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^ CrutchcS iu tweuty- one days. The cicatrix remains at this date, fourteen months and more after the operation, perfectly sound and firm, and Fabry, who remains as a pensioner at Soldiers' Home, enjoys good general health. The lithograph opposite is accurately copied from a photograph of him, made at the Army Medical Museum one year after the operation. Amputation of all Four Limbs.—One instance of this remarkable surgical undertak- ing was reported. DCXII.—Report of a Case of Recovery after all Four Limhs were Amputated on Account of Frost- Bite. By Alfred Mullek, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Benjamin Franklin, a private of Troop H, 2d Minnesota Cavalry, aged 26 years, left Fort Wadsworth, Dakota Territory, on December 9, 18G5, on furlough to visit his home in Faribault County, Minnesota. After being three days out in the stage from Fort Wadsworth to Fort Ridgely, Minnesota, the party of which he was a member being overtaken by a severe snow-storm, which continued three days, was obliged to leave the stage, on December 13th, in a snow-drift on the prairie, distant about one hundred and ten miles from the place of destination. He wandered over the prairie that day and night, and the following four days, through the storm, freezing his limbs, nose, ears, and cheeks, taking no food or water, until found in a dying condition by Indian scouts, and taken to a station-house on the road, on December 17, 1865. He was sent to hospital at Fort Ridgely, for treatment, where he arrived on the night of the 24:th, almost completely exhausted. After slowly thawing the ice from his clothes, stockings, and boots, which had not been removed since December 13th, it was found that both hands and fore-arms were completely mortified by freezing up to middle third, both feet and legs as far as theupper third, both knees over and around the patellte, and both alas and the tip of the nose, all presenting a dark, bluish ai)pearance with * Tlie details of the operation and after-treatment have appeared in the American Journal of the Medical Sciencen, Vol. LXI, page 141.