88 EEPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. INCISED AND PUNCTURED WOUNDS AND CONTUSIONS. The number of incised and punctured wounds, lacerations, and contusions reported is very large in proportion to the mean strength of the Army, as will be apparent from the tabular statement presented further on. The extraordinary proportion of such casual- ties may be ascribed partly to the fact that the troops were generally posted where the population was most lawless and turbulent, and partly to the laxity of discipline which was generally noticed for several years after the close of hostilities, A few reports illustrating the different forms of incised, punclured, lacerated, and contused wounds will be cited. Incised Wounds.—Several reports of remarkable cases are given, and other cases are quoted simply as examples of the accidents likely to be observed in the garrison routine. The total number of incised wounds reported was nearly seven thousand. CCXCYIII.—Mention of a Stvord Cut of the Slcull. By EiCHARD Powell, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. At Camp Warner, Oregon, December 25, 1867, Private Michael Gillaney, Co. D, 23d Infantrj-, aged 29 years, received, in a brawl, a sword cut of the cranium, directly over the right frontal Xirotuberance, slightly incising the bone. He was admitted to the post hospital on the same day, and the wound was stitched together. Cold-water dressings were aijplied. The wound healed promptly, and the man returned to duty January 21, 1868. CCXCIX.—Account of a Penetrating Wound of the Occipital Bone. By W. K. D. Blackwood, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private John O'Niel, Co. I, 2d Infantry, aged 35 years, was wounded December 16, 1870, by a knife which penetrated the occipital bone, severing the left occipital artery. He was admitted to the post hospital at Patoua, Alabama, soon after the reception of the injury. The person who was called in neglected to ligate, or to employ any other means than adhesive strii>s to control the haemor- rhage. No medical officer was present, and the patient lost a large quantity of blood by repeated hicmorrhages. Dr. Burlce, of Jacksonville, late Surgeon U. S. V. assisted by Dr. McMahon, of the Selma, Home and Dalton Railroad, finally stopped the loss of blood by compresses dip[)ed in the i^ersulphate of iron, two days after the reception of the injury. The man was returned to duty January 12,1871. CCC.—Note Relative to an Incised ^yo^^nd of the Eye. By D. D. Tuompson, M. D,, Acting Assist- ant Surgeon. Private William Hobin, Co. E, 25th Infantry, aged 31 years, received, while intoxicated, Feb- ruary 2, 1869, an incised wound by a knife, resulting in the entire loss of the left eye, cutting through the cornea and iris to the i)()sterior chamber, allowing the escape of the aqueous luuuor. The wouiul was obliquely from within out, entirely across the cornea. He was admitted to the post hospital. Von Schrader Barracks, Paducah, on the following day, where simple dressings were applied. The patient recovered, and was returned to duty in April, 1869.