231 EXCISIONS AT THE HIP-JOINT. by a cliain saw. Then, with some difficulty tlie Lead of tlic femur was exarticulated, aud the operation was completed. The exploratory incisions and operation altogether occupied about an hour. Yery little blood was lost, and the patient rallied very promptly after the operation. He seemed to suffer very little from shock. The upper portion of the wound was closed by sutures and adhesive strips. The patient was placed in bed with the limb in an extended position, cold-water dressings being applied to the wound, and a weight of four pounds being attached by Buck's method to the foot to keep up extension. The patient was ordered an ounce of brandy every hour wliile awake, and a quarter of a grain of sulphate of morphia every two hours. On December 4th the patient, after a comfortable night, having slept well, complained only of thirst. His tongue was dry, hi_s pulse at 90 and full. During the day he had nutritious diet, a half ounce of brandy every hour when awake, and two grains of quinine and one-eighth of a graiu of sulphate of morphia every four hours. The fragments of bone excised were cleaned and put together, and transmited to the Army Medical Museum. They are represented in the adjoining wood-cut. On December 5th, in the early morning, there was little change in the consti- tutional symptoms. The patient had slept four hours during the night. He was troubled with hiccough. He had jiartaken freely of freshly i^repared essence of beef. At the surgeon's morning visit, at half past seven, twenty- grain doses of bromide of potassium were substituted for the morphia, and the other treatment and diet were continued with the addition of canned oyster soup. At the evening visit, at nine, the hiccough had nearly ceased, the wound had begun to suppurate, the pulse was 100, the tongue was moist, and the thirst diminished. The dose of bromide of jiotassium was reduced one half; the other treatment was continued. On the morning of December Cth, he was found to have passed a restless night, annoyed by hiccough when awake. He complained of the extension, and the weight attached to his foot was diminished one half. Whiskey was substituted for the brandy, which he disliked, and a tincture of sesquichloride of iron was given in twenty- drop doses, with two grains of sulphate of quinia every four hours. One- fourth of a grain of sulphate of morphia was ordered to be given when the pain demanded it. The patient was removed to a water bed. On December 7th, the patient was more comfortable, and had slept well. He was annoyed by flatulence, the bowels not having moved since the reception of the injury. He was ordered a tablespoonful of castor oil, and twenty drops of turpentine, and an enema of soap and water. The suppuration from the wound was quite copious. On the following day it was practicable to omit the anodyne, and the loatient had a free evacuation of the bowels, Avith great relief. The patient was allowed a small piece of beefsteak for his breakfast, and chicken for dinner. The discharge from the wound was profuse, and the integument over the hips and nates was somewhat abraded from heat and moisture. The weight attached to the foot was removed altogether. The patient was transferred from the water bed to a mattress, in the middle of which was a movable i)ortion corresponding with the pelvic region. This arrangement greatly facilitated the application of dressings and the use of a bed-pan. The patient was ordered three ounces of beef essence thrice daily, and as much milk as he should relfsh. On the 9th, he was found to have slept well without taking an anodyne. The suppuration was profuse. The iiulse was at 100. The appetite was abundant. Hiccough was again quite troublesome. The bowels had not been moved since the 7tli, and an enemata of castile soap and warm water were ordered to be given daily, unless there should be an alvine evacuation before nine in the morning. During the next fortnight there were no symptoms of especial interest. The wound continued to suppurate, but less copiously, and was rapidly tilling up with granulations. On December 22d, the patient passed a very restless night. The surface was hot, and pulse at 100; the appetite was gone ; the abdomen was tympanitic. On December 23d, he had several dejections, and had slept soundly during the previous night, and was in every respect much better. On January 1, 1870; his bowels were again obstinately constipated. Cicatrization of the wound was rapidly gonig on. Citrate of iron and quinine was substituted for the sesquichloride of iron. Laxative enemata were required daily, and whiskey was still given. The obstinate hiccough ceased about the middle of January, at which date the pulse had feUeu to an average of 90, and the Fio. 49—Excised head of left femur shattered by a mus- ket ball. Spec. 5658, Sect, I, A. M. M.