REPORT OF ISUEGICAL CASES I2f THE ARMY. 52 Gunshot Wounds of the Spleen—One complicated case has been reported on page 41. The three following reports refer to similar injuries. All of the four cases had a fatal result. Wounds of the spleen uncomplicated by lesions of the intestines, or kidneys, or larger arteries, are so uncommon that the symptoms of its injury are almost as obscure as the nature of its functions. CLXIV.—Memorandum of a Giinsliot Woiind of the Spleen. By F. A. Wllliams, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Corporal Allen Davis, Co. B, 17tb United States Infantry, aged 35 years, was wounded by a round bullet on December 25, 1868. He was admitted to tbe United States post bospital at Fort Breubam, Texas, on December 26, 1868. Tbe missile entered the left side of tbe cbest near tbe ninth rib, passed tbrongh the front wall, tbrougb a portion of tbe spleen, diaphragm, and Ijleura, and emerged at the back of the cbest. Tbe treatment consisted of simple dressings. He died on December 28, 1868. CLXV.—Memorandum of a Case of OunsJiot Wound of the Liver and Spleen. By S. A. Dow, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Patrick Bebn, Co. A, 34tb United States Infantry, was instantly killed at Columbus, Mississippi, on the morning of September 6, 1867, by a ball from a musket in tbe bands of one of his fellow-soldiers. At tbe autopsy, tbe missile was found to have entered tbe body on tbe left side between tbe tenth and eleventb ribs, passing tbrougb the spleen and liver, and to have lodged in the adipose tissue beneatb the lower edge of tbe seventh rib, just at tbe right of the ensiform cartilage. Tbe spleen was torn into tbree pieces, and the rigbt and left lobes of tbe liver comi)letely sei^arated. CLXVI.—Account of an Autopsy follotving several Gunshot Wounds. By John Ridgely, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Daniel O'Conner, Co, B, 6tb United States Cavalry, was admitted into tbe post bospital at Austin, Texas, August 23, 1868, at 7.30 A. M., in a moribund state from tbe effects of four gunshot wounds, more particularly described bereafter, of which be died, at 9 o'clock A. M., August 23, 1868. Wound first: Gunshot, left arm, lower third, flesh-wound. Wound second: Gunshot, one inch and a half to tbe right, and above left nipple, entering tbe thorax between tbe third and fourth ribs, two inches from sternal articulation; reflected across the pericardium, passing downward, traversing the lower lobe of left lung, and lodging beneath tbe skin at intercostal space of sixth and seventh ribs. It was extracted by Acting- Assistant Surgeon R. Gale, on the morning of tbe injury, prior to his admission into tbe \)Ost hospital, The missile was a small-sized pistol-ball. The wound was not necessarily mortal. Wound third: Gunshot, the missile entering the cavity of the abdomen, about three inches to tbe right and above umbilicus, passed through tbe rigbt lobe of the liver, thence proceeding transversely, tore tbe large intestines. Tbe missile was not found, being probably thrown away with intestines after their removal. This wound was necessarily mortal. AVouud fourth : Gunshot, missile entered the cavity of abdomen, three to four inches upward and to the left of umbilicus, passing transversely through the stonmcb downward, and laterally, through the spleen and tbe kidney toward the bladder. Time and circumstances caused the examination to be closed at this stage.