INCISED AND PUNCTUEED WOUNDS. 101 tinually in his moiitli if lie desired. He retiiined his reason perfectly and lived nearly thirty-six hours after being wounded, death resulting on September 14, 1SG7. The i?os#-?«orim examination showed three wounds in the left side of the chest; one in the infra-clavicular region, about half an inch in length and non-penetrating; one in the infra-scapular region, also non-penetrating, and an extensive wound betweeen the sixth and seventh ribs, passing through the lower and anterior por- tion of the left pleural cavity, perforating the diaphragm, and entering the stomach near the middle and lower side of the anterior surface to the right of the spleen. The wound in the stomach had contracted very much since the injury, as also the organ itself. The left cavity of the chest con- tained twenty ounces of serum and flocculent lymph, and a deposit of coagulated lymph lined the pulmonic and costal pleurte. The left lung was partially compressed; all the other organs were healthy, except the spleen, which was enlarged and softened, and contained four masses of cheesy tubercle. COCXXXV.—i^e/jori of a Punctured Wound of the Stomach. By A. J. HoGG, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Maynard, 9th Infantry, just after eating a hearty dinner, was stabbed on June 7,1870, near Looking-glass Creek, Nebraska, with a common pocket knife, the blade of which, four inches in length by one-half inch in breadth, cut through the cartilage of the ninth rib of the left side, and penetrated the stomach. The shock lasted about six hours, and was followed by moderate reaction. About four hours after the receipt of the injury, he threw up the contents of his stomach, consisting of what he had eaten for dinner and several ounces of clotted blood. The treatment Xmrsued was very simple; the wound of the integument was closed with an adhesive strij) and a compress applied. Nothing was given him for the first forty-eight hours but pounded ice. On the third day he was allowed a small quantity of boiled sago; on the fifth day he was permitted to walk about, and on the thirteenth day after the receipt of the injury was returned to duty. CCOXXXVI.—Report of a Punctured Woxmd of the Abdomen. By J. H. Bartholf, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private William Patterson, Co. A, 29th Infantry, aged 23 years, received a punctured wound of the abdomen in a drunken brawl at Lynchburg, Virginia, October 21, 18G7. After being Avounded he walked a distance of half a mile to camp, when he was admitted to hospital. Upon examination, a wound one-half inch in length, such as would be inflicted by a common clasp-knife, was observed one-half inch from the mesial line and two and one-half inches above the crest of the jjubis. A portion of the omentum, about the size of a large walnut, protruded from the wound. This was at once passed within the abdominal walls and the wound brought together and united by three interrupted sutures. Shortly after dressing the wound the bowels moved, followed imme- diately by vomiting. There was extreme tenderness on pressure over the entire abdomen, particu- larly over the left iliac region. There was general peritonitis; pulse 120. A narcotic was admin istered, and he slept during the night. Vomiting occurred during the night of October 23d. He contiiuied to fail and died at 4 o'clock on the morning of October 24, 1807. At the autopsj^, on openiijg the cavity of the abdomen, about one-half gallon of bloody serum was found; the usual characteristics of serous inflammation were observed. An examination of the intestines revealed the fact that the knife inflicting the wound had passed directly through the ilium, causing a double wound. CCCXXXVIL—i\^o^e of a Punctured Wound of the Abdomen. By John T. King, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private William Moller, Co. C, 8th Infantry, aged 24 years, was wounded by a knife. May 15, 1870, which penetrated the abdominal walls, just below the umbilicus. He was admitted to the post hospital at Spartanburgh, South Carolina, the same day. Interrupted sutures and anodynes were used, and on June 3d he was returned to duty.