AMPUTATIONS OF THE FORE-AEM. 177 of botli hands, tore several tendons from their origin, and superficially injured the arms above the elbow-joints. He was at once admitted to hospital, and on the next day equal parts of ether and chloroform were administered, and both fore-arms amputated by the circular method, the left four inches, and the right one and a half inches above the wrist-joint. The patient, at the time, was powerfully narcotized, opiates having been administered on the previous night to quiet excessive nervous excitement. The pulse was 120 to 150, weak and irregular. The aufesthetic improved the pulse—was better after the operation than at the commencement. He continued under the influ- ence of the opiate, and his condition was rather critical. On July 9th, the right stump had healed and the left was nearly well. On the 11th of July, tetanus occurred, and death on July 15, 1868. DYII.—Report of an Amputation of the Fore-arm for Gunshot Injury. By Henry Spohn, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private George E. Hubbell, Troop 0, 4th Cavalry, aged 21 years, received on February 7, 1870, a gunshot wound of the left hand and wrist, by the accidental discbarge of his carbine. On the same day, he was admitted to the hospital at Fort Mcintosh, Texas. The left hand and wrist were very much shattered and torn. Chloroform and ether were administered, and the left fore-arm amputated by the circular operation, four inches above the wrist. Simple dressings were applied. There was very little suppuration. The patient was discharged the service on May 12, 1870. DVIII.—On an Amjmtation of the Fore-arm for Gunshot Injury. By W. D. Wolyerton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. 1 Private Adam Hutton, Battery K, 1st Artillery, aged 24 years, while firing a salute at New Orleans, June 11,1868, had the greater portion of his right hand blown off. The parts were greatly lacerated, with slight haemorrhage. He was admitted to the post hospital at Sedgwick Barracks, on the same day, where ether and chloroform were administered and the fore-arm amj)utated, through the lower third, by the circular method. He gradually recovered, and was discharged the service August 3, 1868, with a stump completely healed. He is a pensioner at $15 per month. DIX.—Account of a Primary Amputation of the Fore-arm for Gunshot Injury. By E. H. Bowman, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Doctor Johnson, Co. A, 24th Infantry, was wounded at Fort Bliss, Texas, while firing a national salute on July 4, 1870, by the premature discharge of a cannon, which carried away the left hand up to the carpal articulation. On the same day the fore arm was amputated as close to the wrist-joint as the condition of the parts would admit. The stump was dressed with a solution of carbolic acid, and healed kindly. He was discharged April 30, 1871. DX.—Accoxmt of a Primary Amputation of the Fore-arm for Gunshot Injury. By John T. King, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Charles D. Jones, Co. H, 8th Infantry, aged 19 years, was accidentally wounded December 9, 1866, by a conoidal ball, which entered the palmar surface of the left hand, and passed directly through, carrying away the fourth, and comminuting the third and fifth metacarpal bones. The tompion, as well as the ball, passed through the hand. The soft parts were much lacerated. On the same day he was admitted to the post hospital at Charlotte, North Carolina, and on the 16th chloroform was administered, and the left fore-arm was amputated at the lower third, by the circular method. Simple dressings were used. On January 1, 1867, the patient was doing well, and the stump was nearly healed. [He was discharged on March 4, 1867.] 23