59 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITIES. OXC.—Memorandum of a Case of Gunshot Fracture of the Acromion Process of the Scapula. By A. A. Yeomans, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Henry Allison, Co. I, 16th Infantry, aged 26 years, was wounded July 25, 1870, by a couoidal ball, wbicli entered one incb below the coracoid process of the scapula; the ball passed backward and upward, fractured the acromion process, and made its exit posteriorly. He was at once admitted to the post hospital at Grenada, Mississippi. All foreign substances were removed from the wound, and cold-water dressings applied; the right arm was put in a sling, and the patient kept as quiet as possible. When suppuration ensued, flaxseed poultices were applied, and afterward, resin cerate. He was transferred to Jackson, Mississippi, and returned to duty in December, 1870. CXOI.—Mention of a Case of Gunshot Fracttire of the Clavicle. By Elliott Coues, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Daniel Ryan, Co. C, 8th Infantry, aged 21 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Columbia, South Carolina, on November 17, 1868, with a gunshot compound comminuted fracture of the clavicle. The missile, which lodged somewhere in the muscles of the back or side of the neck, could not be found. Excellent results have been obtained by adaptation of bandages to this special case. CXCII.—Memorandum of a Case of Gunshot Fracture of the Clavicle and Scapula. By H. S. SCHELL, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Moses Vetzstine, Co. I, 18th Infantry, aged 20- years, received, in a brawl on August 21, 1867, a gunshot wound by a conoidal ball, which penetrated the right shoulder, fracturing the clavicle and scapula. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Laramie, Dakota Territory, on the following day. Splints and bandages were apijlied. The man was returned to duty January 1, 1868. CXCIII.—Memorandum of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Shoulder. W. A. Cantrell, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private John O'Brien, Co. B, 28th Infantry, of a constitution injured by the habitual use of alcoholic stimulants, was wounded July 24, 1868, by buckshot, which entered the left shoulder. He was immediately admitted to the post hospital at Little Rock, Arkansas, i^rostrated from hjemorrhage. The treatment consisted of styptics and simple dressings. He died in a few hours after admission to the hospital. CXCIV.—Note of a Case of Gunshot Flesh-Wound of the Shoulder. By Julius H. Patzki, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Benjamin Amey, Co. H, 6th Cavalry, aged 26 years, received a gunshot flesh-wound of the right shoulder, by a conoidal ball, in action with Indians near the North Fork of the Little Wichita River, Texas, July 12, 1870. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Richardson, Texas, on the 14th, where carbolic acid dressings were applied. He was returned to duty on the 18th. CXCV.—ISfote of a Gunshot Wotmd of the Shoulder. By J. B. Crandall, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Thomas Nolan, Co. I, 37th Infantry, aged 27, was wounded on September 24, 1867, by a conoidal ball, in the left shoulder. He was admitted from the field on September 25th. Simple dressings were applied to the wound. He was returned to duty in September. CXCVI.—Mention of a Gunshot Flesh-Wotmd of the Shoulder. By J. W. Williams, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Corporal Edward Nolan, Co. C, 5th Cavalry, was admitted to the post hospital at Atlanta, Georgia, on January 9, 1869, with a gunshot wound of the left shoulder, received in a brawl on January 2d. Simple dressings were applied. He was returned to duty on January 28th.