EEPORT OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 48 Gunshot Wounds of the Large Intestine.—Such injuries are dangerous, but far less so than those of the small intestines. OLII.—Memorandum of a Gunshot Wound of the Large Intestine recovering tinder 8im])le Treatment. By W. S. MiNEER, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private J. T>. Morgan, Co. H, 23d United States Infantry, aged 25 years, was shot by a com- panion in a dispute on July 15, 1867. A revolver ball entered tlie abdomen, ijassing tlirougli the colon, aud was extracted just above the right ilium. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Boise, Indian Territory, on July 15, 1867. Simple dressings were applied. He was returned to duty on September 30, 1867. CLIII.—Memorandum of a Gunshot Wotmd of the Colon. By S. S. Beach, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Octavio Dussett, aged 23 years, was wounded in a quarrel with a comrade, on June 23, 1868, at Atlanta, Georgia. A pistol ball entered above the crest of the right ilium, passed through the transverse colon longitudiually, and made its exit two and a half inches above the left ilium. He was sent to the post hospital at McPherson Barracks. Water-dressings were applied. He died on June 27, 1868, from peritonitis, ninety-six hours after the reception of the injury. CLIY.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Abdomen tvith Protrusion of the Omentum. By S. H. Horner, Assistant Surgeon, TJ. S. A. Private Charles Morris, Co. C, 2d United States Infantry, was admitted to the post hospital at Louisville, Kentucky, August 2, 1866, with a gunshot wouud of the abdomen, received in an attempt to escape from arrest. A conoidal ball entered the right side posteriorly, grazing the posterior superior spinous process of the ilium, emerging at a point one inch to the right and above the umbilicus. When admitted he was suffering from great pain, continual vomiting, rest- lessness, and excessive thirst. His pulse was 70, and very feeble; skin bathed in cold clammy perspiration. About eight inches of the omentum, Avhich protruded through the anterior wouud, was washed and returned. The wouud was then closed with a suture, and cold-water dressings applied. Stimulants and anodynes were freely given, but the patient continued to sink, and expired at 1 o'clock P. M. on the same day. At the post-mortem examination, the ball was found to have traversed the colon in two places, lacerating the omentum; the jjeritonfeum was somewhat thickened and inflamed; the vessels of the omentum and mucous membrane of the colon were highly engorged, and the abdominal cavity contained a considerable quantity of dark bloody fluid mingled with Itecal matter. CLV.—Remarlis on a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Abdomen, folloioed by Faxal Fistula. By H. S. SCHELL, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Eichard Broad, Co. F, 2d United States Cavalry, was wounded July 3, 1867, at Fort Laramie, Dakota Territory, by a conoidal ball from a Eemington revolver. Army pattern. The ball entered on the left side of the abdomen, its lower edge grazing the centre of Poupart's liga- ment, and ranging backward, inward, and slightly ui^ward, emerged one inch to the left of the spinous processes of the sacrum. He was admitted to the hospital the next morning, i^ut in bed, absolute rest and diet enjoined, and cold-water dressing applied. Opium was given in full doses, to obtain (juietude of the bowels, which were disposed to diarrluea. On July 6th, all the sym]>toms of Deritonitis making their appearance, six cut cups were applied to the abdomen, and ten ounces of blood abstracted. Warm-water dressing aud light, hot fomentations were applied, with relief of all untoward symptoms. On July 8th, tea and toast diet was allowed. On July 11th, free dis- charge of ficcal matter from both anterior and posterior wound. This discharge continued for three days, then ceased. More liberal diet was then allowed, and by August 12th, both wounds Avere entirely healed.