EEPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 236 post bospital. On Maicli Ctli, profuse boemorrbage from tbe temporal artery occiirretl. Styptics and pressure failed to control it; acupressure needles were then inserted, but only checked the hajniorrhage for twenty-four hours; at the end of that time an incision was made, and tbe bleodhig vessel tied. Tbe wound then healed rapidly, and the patient returned to duty in April, 18G8. DCLXVI.—Minute of a Case in ichich the Thyroid Artery urns ligated. By Harvey E. Brown, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. ■v. Private Joseph Haniley, Co. K, 1st Infantry, aged 27 years, cut his throat with a razor, at Jachson Barracks, Louisiana, NoA'ember 3,18G6. Tbe larynx was opened, and tbe superior thyroid artery severed, tbe incision extending from one angle of the jaw to tbe other. Wben admitted to post bospital be was nearly pulseless. I at once ligated the divided ends of the thyroid. Tbe patient did very well, and seemed to improve until tbe evening of November 5tb, wben be bad a choking fit, and died a few minutes later of asphyxia. DCXLVII.—Report of a Successftd Case of Ligation of the Common Carotid Artery. By G. McC. Miller, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Patrick Jordan, Co. A, IGth Infantry, aged 28, was wounded at Savannab, Georgia, November 27,18GG, by a conoidal ball, which entered tbe moutb, and, knocking out four teeth in tbe left superior maxilla (two incisors, one cuspidate, and one bicuspid), passed obliquely over tbe tongue, grooving it sligbtly, fractured the right ramus of tbe inferior maxilla at the angle, then passed into the neck and lodged under tbe upper portion of the right sterno-mastoid muscle, rather deeply, taking a position just behind the external carotid artery. Tbere was little primary haemorrbage. He was admitted to post bospital at Savannah; tbe neck was moderately swollen, and pus discharged from tbe moutb, but the jaw apparently was not much comminuted. On December Gth, profuse h;xMnorrbage occurred through the mouth, probably from tbe right external carotid artery near its origin. Tbe ball was excised through an incision in tbe direction of fibres of tbe sterno-mastoid muscles, and liquor of the persulpbate of iron was introduced into the opening. The patient became very weak, but the case progressed favorably, until tbe evening of December loth, wben biTemorrhage to tbe amount of eight ounces recurred from the moutb, and also from tbe wound of incision. On December lltb, I administered equal parts of ether and chloroform, and ligated tbe right common carotid arterj'. Owing to tbe depth of the artery, from tumefaction and infiltration of tissues, it was deemed expedient to divide tbe omo-byoid muscle, and tbe ligature was applied to tbe part of tbe artery which lies behind tbe muscle. December 2Gtb, fifteen days after the operation, tbe ligature came away; on December 31st the wound made in tbe operation of ligating the artery was nearly healed, but the incision for removal of the ball was still discharging. A large amount of callus bad formed about tbe seat of fracture, and tbe prospect for recovery was excellent. The case progressed favorably, and the patient was returned to duty in January, 18G7. Ligation of Arteries of the Upper Extremity.—Nine special reports were made ; one relating to a ligation of tlie brachial, five to ligations of the radial, and three to ligations of the interosseous or of the arteries of the hand. Two other cases have been already recorded in the chapter on wounds; a ligation of the interosseous (p. 97j, and a ligation of the radial, (p. 155.) DCXLVIII.—Minute of a Case in which the BracMal Artery icas ligated. By R. A. Christian, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private James McMabon, Co. F, Stli Infantry, aged 25 years, was accidentally wounded while on guard, July 23,1867, at New Berne, North Carolina. The missile entered at tbe commencement of the upper third of the fore-arm, passed obliquely through tbe muscles, and out over tbe radius. Upon