228 liEPOKT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. uuriculio, A^eiitriculjc and semi-lunar valves of tbe right side were somewhat thickened ; the walls of the left ventricle showed fatty degeneration, and were very soft, but the valves were in good order, and tlie auricles healthy, but pale ; lungs healthy, but marks of old pleuritic adbesions existed on the interior lobes of each side. DCXXXVII.—Minute of a Case of Excision of a Portion of the Tibia. By W. M. Austin, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Joseph Shaw, Troop D, Hd Ca\ alry, was admitted to hospital at Fort Bliss and Camp Concordia, Texas, on October 25, 18G7, with a gunshot wound of the right tibia, which was received in a fight with Indians, October 17, 1SG7. The bone became necrosed, and on February 2, 18GS, the Jiecrosed portion was excised. Ue recovered, and \\as returned to duty on March 9, 1808. Excisions at the Hip-joint.—It is very gratifying to record two successes in tlie three excisions for gun-sliot injury of the upper extremity of the femur, that have been performed in the army since the War. The two men referred too not only recovered, but retained very useful limbs. Through the kindness of the chief of the medical staff of the navv, I am enabled also to record a memorandum* of a successful case occurrinc in the practice of Surgeon W- E. Taylor, of the navy. Photograph 271, Surgical Series, A. M. M., contributed by Dr. Grimm, the Director General of the medical staff of the Prussian army, represents a very successful result of this operation, in a soldier wounded in the Austro-Prussian seven-weeks war. TJiese instances must place excision at the hip for gun-shot injury among the established operations of surgery. DOXXXVIII.—Account of a jSuccessful Case of Excision of the Rip-Joint for Gunshot Injury. From detailed rei)orts. Private Charles F. Eead, Co. I, 37th Infantry, while in a stooping- posture, and distant about one hundred feet, was shot by a sentinel at Missouri Bottom, Xew Mexico, on June C, 18GS. The ball struck about the middle of the posterior aspect of the left thigh, causing an injury to the bone, the nature of which is shown in the accompanying wood-cut, illustrating the sijccimeu contributed to the Armj-^ Medical Museum hy the operator, J. E. Gibson, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A., (Fig. 47.) The case being fully detailed in Circular ISo. 2, S. G. O., 1869, page 117, reference will only be made to the more salient points, and to information received since the publication of that report. After weeks of temporizatiou, during which the patient, a young man in the prime of life, had become much exhausted from numerous and futile searches after the missile, from bed-sores, profuse suppuration, an irritable diarrhoea, and pain so ^heatioft.f"flmur\^^ inteusc as to rcquirc the administration of an anaesthetic previous to dressing an impacted musket the wouud, the choicc lay bctwecu a lingering death or excision of the head of i^A M M femur, or the more fearful and precarious alternative of ami)utatiou at the joint. On August lith the patient expressed willingness to submit to any operation that would afford relief, when he was an{esthetized for the purpose of again freely examining the parts, and performing such operation as should be considered necessary. Upon explorations of the wound with the probe and finger, the ball was discovered in the head of the femur, a T-shaped incision was made over the joint, the head of the bone was turned out of the acetabulum, and was sawn through the neck, just within the great trochanter. The incisions were closed with metallic sutures, and the limb was temi^orarily i^laced between splints, with a * Surgeon Taylor, 1)081(168 contributing to the Museum liis specimen of excised head, neck, and trochanters of the left femur, with a couoidal musket-ball, lodged in the head, {Spec. 5884, Sect. I, A. M. M.), forwarded a most interesting and detailed history of the case, wliicli I would gladly reproduce in full, did not Surgeon General Wood, U. S. N., prefer that it should be inserted iu a volume of communications from medical oUicers of the Navy, which he purposes publishiug from his Bureau.