159 ARROW-WOUNDS. Private Francis Stall, Troop D, 3d Cavalry; Sierra Diabola, Texas, October 18, 18G7; arrow- wound of tlie right breast; returned to duty. Private Henry Stockford, Co. G, 31st Infantry, aged 29 years; Fort Buford, Dakota Territory, August 20, 18G8; penetrating arrow-wouud of internal condyle of the left humerus, requiring the united strength of two men to extract it; returned to duty in October, 18G8. Private William Wagerle, Troop I, 3d Cavalry; engagement with Navajo Indians, July 9, 1869; arrow-wound of the right chest, passing into the pleural cavity; recovered; duty. Private Lewis White, Troop C, 9th Cavalry; Horse Head Hills, Texas, September 12, 1808; arrow-wound of sixth rib, left side, seven inches from the spine; treated in post hospital at Fort Davis, Texas, and returned to duty September 26, 1868. Private Michael Zuch, Co. E, 31st Infantry, aged 20 years; Fort Buford, Dakota Territory, August 20, 1808; arrow flesh-wound of the left hip; returned*to duty August 23, 1808. ■ JSTearly all of the foregoing instances of arrow-wounds have been copied from "lists of casualties," a few from special reports. The orders which enjoin upon medical officers to forward to the Surgeon General a list of casualties within two or three days after every engagement or skirmish in which they may be on duty, have been generally, but not universally, observed.* It is specially desirable that such returns should be rendered with the utmost regularity and promptness, because many of the wounded in the field do not come under treatment in the post hospitals, and are not accounted for on the monthly and quarterly reports. When casualties occur in small scouting parties, unaccompanied by a medical officer, the medical ofiicer at the nearest post should assume the duty of reporting the killed and wounded by name, with such facts as can be ascertained regard- ing the nature and seat of injuries. The records of this office prove that he will have, in such cases, the cordial cooperation of line officers ; for many reports have been received, signed by lieutenants or captains of infantry or cavalry, enumerating the casualties in their detachments, with the postscript, " I send this as we have no doctor along with us." The two following reports conform to the instructions that have been issued on this subject: CCCCLXXXVI.—A Report of Two Fatal Cases of Arrow- Wounds. By Alfred D. Wilson, Assist- ant Surgeon, U. S. A. A detachment of seven companies of the Fifth Cavalry started from Fort Lyons, Colorado, on May 1, 1809, for Sheridan City, Kansas. On Beaver Creek, Indians were encountered, and a fight ensued. The Indians were i^ursued towards the Republican River. When they reached Prairie Dog Creek, they dispersed, and it was impossible to follow them further. The command then retraced the route, and then marched in a northwesterly direction to the Platte River, and then westerly to Fort McPherson, Nebraska. There w^re several casualties from gunshot wounds, and two soldiers were mortally wounded by arrow-wounds penetrating the thorax; viz, Sergeant John Ford, Troop B, 5th Cavalry. Private C. A. C. Stone, Troop B, 5th Cavalry. CCCCLXXXVII.—Memoranilum from a Report of Casualties in an Indian Engagement. ~R\ J. F. Weeds, Surgeon, U. S. A. In the engagemen tof Companies G and I, 3d Cavalry, with a baud of Xavajoes, near Fort Sum- ner, New Mexico, July 9, 1869, one soldier died from haemorrhage from an arrow-wound of the * See General Orders, No. 355, A. G. O., November 4, 1863, Circular Letter, S. G. O., March 23, 1864, Circular Orders No. 10, S. G. O., October 22, 18()7, and Form 55, Medical Department.