233 EXCISIONS AT THE HIP-JOINT. nutritious diet, and an anodyne, when required, were ordered, and tlie wound was dressed with oakum. On July 25, the patient seemed to be slowly sinking, and there being evidently no prospect of recovery if treated on the expectant plan, the operation of the excision of the injured parts was decided upon, as giving him the best chance of life, esjiecially as there was no injury to the large vessels and nerves, and very little damage to the soft parts. The patient, cheerfully consenting to the operation, was chloroformed by Assistant Surgeon A. M. Owen, U. S. N. The limb being straightened, a well-marked crepitus was elicited. A straight and deep incision was then made, commencing about two inches above the great trochanter, and carried downward over its centre and along the outer side of the thigh for about eight inches. On exposing the joint, the thigh was well adducted and pushed upward, that the trochanter might be prominent; the muscular attachments were then carefully divided close to the bone, which, being well cleared, was pushed through the wound and sawn off just below the trochanter minor, with an ordinary amputating saw; .after which the fragments of the neck and head, some twelve in number, with the ball, were easily removed. Very little blood was lost, two small arteries only requiring to be secured. After syringing the wound with a weak solution of permanganate of potash, it was partially api)roximated by four sutures, and the limb was placed in an ordinary fracture-box, and .dressed with oakum. The operation was well borne, and reaction prompt. Stimulants, with nutritious diet, were ordered, and rigid cleanliness was enforced. On the 27th, the patient began to suffer from decubitus. On the evening of the 29th, he became delirious; pulse 130 and irritable. Hydrate of chloral being substituted for morphia, he went to sleep in a few minutes, and next morning awoke refreshed and natural, and feeling better than at any time since the accident. The pulse fell to 100. On the 31st, the sutures Avere removed. The good effect of the chloral was very marked, but by August 6th it seemed to have lost some of its eifect, whereupon morphia was combined with the usual dose, and he slept well. The discharge from the wound was small in quantity, and laudable. On August 8th, some extension of the limb was made, but was badly borne. By the 11th, the patient was doing well in every respect. On the 21st, all dressings being removed from the limb, it was thoroughly bathed and rubbed, after which it was replaced in the fracture-box, when extension and counter-extension were made by means of the ordinary iierineal baud and a screw. This was discontinued on the 2Gth, owing to enlargement of the inguinal glands and the general malaise and discomfort experienced by the patient. On the 30th, the use of anodynes was discontinued, as he could sleep without them. September 1st found the patient improving, the discharge from the wound being moderate, with an entire absence of inguinal trouble, bed-sores, and excoriations. Slight passive motion was commenced in the limb, and it was allowed to rest lightly on a pillow for several hours. On the 7th, he was able, for the first time, with assistance, to leave his bed. After this, he continued to sit up several hours daily^, and, gaining in flesh,-&c., was able, by the 18th, to walk on crutches. He continued to take daily a moderate amount of out-door exercise, the limb meanwhile being supported and steadied by means of a wire splint, and his general condition became excellent. He continued steadily to improve, and on December 27th went by steamer to San Francisco, a distance of fifty miles. He returned in the evening, having borne the journey well. By January 1, 1871, the patient was doing well in all respects. On the 20th, a protective apparatus was adjusted to the limb, which, at the beginning, proved highly useful. Photographs of the patient, both with and without the apparatus, were taken on the 30th. On February 1st, the patient was transferred to the new Naval Hospital. At this time, his general health was excellent. The left buttock was somewhat flattened, and there was a small opening about the centre of the line of incision, which discharged a small quantity of pus ; the limb was about three and a half inches shorter than its fellow, the knee being quite stiff", and foot everted. The patient had gained about thirty pounds since the operation of excision, and there was a probabibty of his being able, in time, to walk quite well without the aid of crutches. The above " general reference" to a very fully detailed case is concluded by a quotation of Surgeon Taylor's remarks : "This report terminates my official connection with the case, and, inasmuch as the result cannot yet be positively known, it would perhaps be premature to make any comments, or draw any conclusions. There is one point, however, worthy of mention, viz, that prior to the operation, the patient complained of severe and constant pain, which ceased immediately upon the removal of 30