194 EEPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. olus of the left foot, and, escaping beneath the outer malleohis, shattered the os calcis and injured the under surface of the astragakis. He was admitted to post hospital, Fort Dodge, Kansas, on the same day. The parts about the wound were much powder-burned. The patient was of slight frame, anaemic, and suffered considerably from shock of injury. I amputated by Syme's method ; both wounds came in the line of the incision for the operation. The flap when put up showed a linear wound one and a quarter inches in extent, caused by wound ot exit. A dressing of a weak solution of permanganate of potash was employed. The burnt parts along the wound of entrance sloughed. On November 9th, in attempting to remove a suture, a slight htemorrhage occurred, which was checked by application of cold, but recurred on the 15th, when the patient lost between two and three pounds of blood. The ligatures would not bear interference until long after the usual period, the last one not being removed until the thirty-first day. Patient was much reduced by the last hiBmorrhage. December 31, 18G7: Stump bears considerable pressure; there is still a slight discharge from it. [This man was discharged the service September 28,1868, for amputation of foot.] J)LVIII.—Report of a Case of Frost-Bite in which both Feet were Removed. By J. H. Patzki, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. First Lieutenant Henry B. Mellen, Gth Cavalry, aged 43 years, while travelling from Camp Wichita to Fort Richardson, Texas, on horseback, was overtaken by a severe '-norther" on December 20,1870, during which the mercury fell below zero. Having become wet by his horse falling with him into the west fork of Trinity River, he dismounted, was overcome with the cold, and remained in the timber of the bottom, in a half delirious condition, until found by a hunting party of soldiers on the morning of the 22d, about twelve miles from Fort Richardson. A medical officer was at once sent to his relief with an ambulance, and he was conveyed to the post hospital at Fort Richardson, arriving there at one o'clock on the morning of the 23d. His hands had escaped severe injury, as he had kept them under his clothes in contact with his skin, but both his feet and legs, to about five inches above the ankles, were apparently deprived of vitality, having a white and mottled appearance. He was delirious, and had persistent vomiting and diarrhoea, and was extremely prostrated, the pulse being almost imperceptible at the wrist. His extremities had been rubbed with snow by the soldiers immediately on finding him. In the hospital, friction with the hand was continued until i)ulsation could be felt over the dorsalis pedis and posterior tibialis, when stimulating lotions and artificial warmth were substituted, but reaction did not extend to the toes of the left nor below the instep of the right foot. The patient remained in a state of i)rofound coma during the greater part of December 25th. The median-basilic vein and anterior temporal artery were opened Avithout obtaining blood ; brandy was thrown up the rectum. He finally awoke in a violent delirium, which continued until the 28th. About this time the toes became gangrenous, but the line of demarcation was not fully established until January 4, 1871. It ran on the right foot in a line corresponding to the medio-tarsal articulation, the sole and heel being also destroyed. On the left foot it ran across the dorsum, about one-half inch behind the heads of the metatarsal bones, and across the plantar immediately behind the commissure of the four smaller toes, but when reaching the great toe it curved backward so as to be on a level with its course over the dorsum. Irregular sloughs of varying depths ran along the outer margin of the dorsum, and covered the sole deepest over the bases of the metatarsal bones, the medio-tarsal articulation, and especially over the heel. Stimulants and nourishing diet were administered. On January 13th, in a consultation with Acting Assistant Surgeons R. Gale and B. B. Miles, it was decided that the condition of the patient permitted operative interference. It was resolved to remove the right foot at the ankle-joint, according to Roux's method, the condition of the heel not permitting Syme's or PirogofPs operation. It was rather embarrassing to determine upon an operation for the left foot, the sloughs having separated except over the heel; the sole was covered with granulations, forming but a thin layer over the bases of the metatarsals and over the heads of the astragalus and calca- neum. This precluded Lisfranc's as well as Ohopart's operation. A sufficient flap could be raised from the sole to cover the metatarsal bones with the exception of the first. In consideration of the great usefulness of a portion of one foot, especially after the loss of the other, it was decided to