192 REPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. ball at that range shattered tlio secoud metatarsal bone of the left foot. The patient was adniitted to the hospital of the fort on the same day, and, on May IGth, chloroform was administered and the toe and second metatarsal bone amputated. There was but little hiemorrhage, and no ligatures were applied. At the time of ttie operation the soft parts near the wound were in a healthy condi- tion. The patient reacted promptly from the anjiesthetic, and no bad symptoms followed. On June 30th the patient was still under treatment, convalescent. He was discharged January 21, 1871. DLL—Account of a Partial Amputation of the Foot. By F. Damour, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Richard Melitz, Troop B, 1st Cavalry, aged 22 years, while en route to Canjp McGarry, Nevada, was frost-bitten in both feet on the 20th of January, 18CS. He arrived at his destination, and was admitted to the post hospital on the 25th. On the 31st, ether and chloroform were administered, and a flap amputation of the right foot perfomned through the second, third, fourth, and fifth metatarsal bones, and through the tarso-metatarsal articulation of the first. The parts amputated were gangrenous. The j)atient, at the time, was feverisii, pnlse 110, skin dry, secretion scant, bowels constipated, and appetite not very good. The glands of the right groin were swollen and inflamed; lithic acid was found in the urine. Oh the 17th of February, i^art of the left great toe having mortified, an anajsthetic was administered as above, and it was amputated through the first phalanx, with a favorable result. The sutures of the flap of the right foot gave way on account of the great destruction of integument above the amiiutation, and therefore the healing process was carried on by granulation. A large i)ortiou of the soft parts of the heel were also mortified, and sloughed oft', exposing a large part of the os calcis. By the 31st of March, 18G8, the stump had healed with good cushions. The ulcer in the heel had been filling up by granulation, but was not yet ^vell. Discharged September 20, 18G8. Pension, $15. DLIL—Ifote on a Partial Amputation of the Foot. By H. R. TiLTON, Assistant Surgeon. U. S. A. Private Frank Reip, Troop B, 7th Cavalry, aged 23 years, while marching from Pueblo to Fort Lyon, Colorado Territory, January 23 to 27, 1867, had his left foot frozen. He was taken to the post hospital at Fort Lyon, Colorado Territory. Tlie injured parts were gangrenous. On. February 19th, I administered an anfesthetic composed of chloroform and ether, and amputated the foot through the metatarsal bones. Simple dressings were applied. He recovered, and was discharged. DLIII.—Account of an Amputation of the Foot for a Compound Dislocation of the Anlde-Joint. By W. A. Tompkins, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Leopold Winkleman, Troop K, 7th Cavalry, while sufi'ering from an attack of delirium tremens, leaped from a third story window of the building used as a hospital at Yorkville, South Carolina, fiiUing a distance of about forty feet, and causing a compound, comminuted, complicated fracture of the internal malleolus, os calcis, and astragalus at the posterior part. The weather being extremely warm, and the patient debilitated from excessive debauchery, I decided to amputate as the only means of saving his life, which decision was concurred in hy two medical gentlemen who assisted me in the operation. The patient at present is doing well, and will have a serviceable limb. The specimen forwarded to the Army Medical Museum, with the history, is numbered 5928 of the Surgical Section. DLIV.—Note Belative to an Amputation of the Foot for Ounshot Injury. By J. W. Williams, Assistant Snrgeon, U. S. A. Jose Antonio Gonzales, a citizen, was Wounded at Fort Dodge, Kansas, in July, 18G5, by Indians. The ball entered anteriorly, passed backward and downward, carried away the cuboid part of the