EEPOET OF SITEGICAL OASES IN THE ARMY. 32 Five instances are reported of gunshot wounds of both lungs. They were fatal, and, indeed, I know of no authenticated instance of recovery from such a lesion. LXXXTX.—Memorandum of a Fatal Perforation of both Lungs hy a Muslcet-Ball. By J. E. Gibson, Assistant Surgeon, IT. S. A. On his monthly report from Fort Stanton, August, 1869, Dr. Gibson enters the following state- ment of Acting Assistant Surgeon Alward Wliite, stationed at Fort Bliss, Texas: Charles E. Thompson, Co. F, 3d United States Cavalry. The ball presumed to have been dischax-ged from a carbine, entered his chest in front, in the right side, in the second intercostal space, passed diagonally through the upper lobe of the right lung, severing the great vessels at the base of the heart, and thence through the posterior portion of the middle lobe of the left lung, and passed out at the inferior angle of the scapula." The date of the injury is not recorded. It is found that the patient died August 7, 1869. XO.—Extract from Eemarls on Monthly Report of Side and Wounded from Fort Stevenson, DaTcoia Territory. By C. C. Gray, Surgeon, U. S. A. In October, 1867, Private Knowles, Co. B, 31st ITnited States Infantry, was accidentally shot by a comrade. The bullet, from a breech-loading musket, fractured the left humerus, and traversed the ajiices of both lungs. This wounded man lived about four hours after the reception of the injur3\ XOI.—Memorandum of a Case of Gunshot Wound of both Lungs. By S. M. Horton, Assistant Surgeon, TJ. S. A. Cori)oral Peter Donnolly, Co. H, 27tli United States Infantry, aged 26 years, received on November 3, 1867, in an attack by Indians, a gunshot penetrating wound of the chest, through both lungs. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Philip Kearney, Dakota Territory, on November 4, 1867. Eoller-bandages and simple dressings were applied. The patient died on November 4, 1867. XCII.—Wote of a Case of Suicidal Gtmshot Wound of both Lyings. By Calvin De Witt, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Sergeant Jules Gueree, Co. D, Engineer Battalion, aged 30 years, was admitted to hospital at Willett's Point with a gunshot wound inflicted by himself. The missile entered the left side of the thorax, fracturing the third rib near its articulation with the sternum, passed obliquely near the edge of the left lung, and traversed the upper lobe of the right lung, and emerged midway between the spinal colunui and the lower angle of the scapula. He died shortly after admission, July 23, 1867. XCIir.—Memorandum of a Case of Gunshot Perforation of both Lungs and Aorta. By W. D. WOLVERTON, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Peter McCabe, Co. B, 1st United States Infantry, aged 29 years, was accidently shot by a guard on June 18, 1868. The missile jiassed through the lungs and aorta. The man died instantly. XCIV.—Memorandiim of a Case of Suicide. By D. C. Peters, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private James Finally, Troop D, 3d United States Cavalry, aged 27 years, shot himself on JMay 39, 1870, while on guard at Fort Union, New Mexico. The ball entered under the last true rib, on the right side, passed upward, wounding the lung and i^leura, came out one inch above right nii)ple, and lodged in the right cheek. It also wounded slightly tlu' right hand and wrist. He was admit- ted to post hosi)ital, where tiie missile was excised I'rom the right cheek. Intlammation of pleura and lungs, with internal luemorrhage, followed, and death occurred on May 21,1870.