137 SIMPLE AND COMPOUND FRACTURES. Fractures of the Leg.—Kine special reports come under tins class. In four cases the tibia and fibula were fractured, in five the tibia only. • COCCXXXIV.—Eemarfcs on a Case of Fracture of the Tibia. By G. S. Rose, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Ira V, Beam, Co. B, 29tk Infantry, aged 2G years, was riding on a box-car on Septem- ber 28, 18G8, when the car rolled over an embankment. His leg was caught under a large box of freight and crushed, causing a compound fracture. He was taken to the jiost hospital at Camp Schofield, Lynchburg, Virginia. The external wound was not large; the soft parts were not greatly destroyed. The wound was situated just over the spine of the tibia, about its middle and to the inner side. The leg was bandaged and a small splint applied along its outer side, the wound having been left exposed so as to have constant and ready application of carbolic acid, with which the limb was dressed. The patient made a good recovery, and on December 3, 1868, was reported as entirely well, walking without the aid of crutches. The limb was not shortened. COOCXXXV.—Mention of a Case of Fracture of the Tibia. By F. Meaciiam, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private William Janke, Co. K, 9th Infantry, met with a simple oblique fracture in the lower third of the right tibia at Omaha Barracks, Nebraska, on January 15, 1871. The injury was treated with immovable plaster splints. The patient made a good recovery. There was but little deformity, and no percej^tible shortening. CCCCXXXVL—iV^o^e on a Case of Fracture of the Tibia. By W. H. Elbridge, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Thomas Pomfort, Co. H, 5th Cavalry, received on January 7, 1868, a kick from a horse, causing a fracture of the tibia four inches below the knee. He was admitted to the post hos- pital at Aiken, South Carolina, where a fragment of the tibia, three quarters of an inch in diameter, was removed by Assistant Surgeon A. C. Girard, U. S. A., and Acting Assistant Surgeon T. M. Stuart. On March 20th, Smith's anterior splint was applied to the limb. This man was returned to duty in September, 1868. CCCCXXXVII.—Bemarlis on a Case of Fracture of the Tibia. By J. J. Puroell, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Henry Noyes, Co. H, 1st Artillery, aged 21 years, was admitted to the hospital at Fort Schuyler, New York Harbor, on September 26, 1867, with a simple fracture at the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the right tibia, caused by the falling of a gun-carriage upon it that morning. The fracture was nearly transverse, and was set without difficulty and placed in a frac- ture-box, the ends remaining in apposition. The case progressed favorably, and on January 21, 1868, he was returned to duty, at which time he had entirely recovered. Upon careful measure- ment no perceptible shortening could be discovered, and there was but slight deformity at the seat of fracture. CCCCXXXVIII.—Note relative to a Case of Fracture of the Tibia and Fibula. By J. Saunders, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Thomas Pumphrey, Co. E, 6th Cavalry, aged 21 years, was admitted to the post hos- pital at Pilot Grove, Texas, December 15, 1868, with a compound fracture of the left tibia and fibula at junction of middle and lower thirds. The tibia projected through the integument and was covered with mud. The limb was placed in a Butcher's box, and carbolic acid lotions Avere applied. On December 31st the case was progressing finely. He was admitted to the hospital at Greenville, Texas, convalescent, on April 12, 1869; and was discharged the service April 20, 1869, his term of service having expired. 18