KEPOKT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 164 POISONED WOUNDS. The examples of poisoned wounds re|)orted were Lut few. No instances of glanders, or malignant pustule, or of hydrophobia, or of dissection wounds occurred, and the instances of serious results from the stings or bites of insects, or of venomous serpents were rare. Many specimens of so-called scorpions and tarantul93 and other arachnids were* sent by medical officers to the museum, and large scolopendrse, with information that they were considered very venomous at the posts at which the officers were stationed; but without any sufficient evidence that their bites or stings had been attended with any serious results. Snake Bites.—Five examples of poisoned wounds from bites by reptiles were reported. Only one was fatal, and the fatal result in that case was due to secondary complications. CCCCLXXXVIII.—Memorandum of a Case of SnaJce Bite. By J. V. D. Middleton, Assistant Siirgeou, U. S. A. Private Theodore E. Turner, Troop D, 4tli Cavalry, aged 29 years, was bitten by a rattlesnalce at Fort Conclio, Texas, June 27, 1866. The bite opening the phalangeal joint of the left thnmb, caused violent inflammation. Chronic inflammation ensued, which resulted in the destruction of the joint. On January 23, 1869, tbe patient was admitted to the post hospital at Austin, Texas, at which time the joint was swollen and exquisitely painful on the slightest motion, the anterior and left lateral ligament being destroyed by ulceration. The patient was feverish, unable to sleep from pain, and desirous of having the thumb amputated. On tbe date of admission the medical officer in charge administered ether, and amputated tlie thumb above the phalangeal articulation by the circular method. There was very little hjcmorrliage and that little was suppressed by torsion of the arteries. The dressing was made with adhesive strains, carbolic acid, and oil. The pain eased, tlie appetite improved, and the patient slept well. The wound bealed by January 30, 1869 and the man was soon afterward returned to duty. CCCCLXXXIX.—Memorandim of a Recovery from a BattlesnaJce Bite. By A. B. Campbell, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. A private of tbe 13tb Infantry was bitten in the throat by a rattlesnake of large size. {Crotahis durissus, Linn.) near Camp Cooke, Montana Territory, in August, 1868. The wound was immediately sucked by a comrade. The man reported at the post hosjiital at Camp Cooke, three bours after the accident, which happened some miles from cami). The only noticeable appearance was a slightly wild look about the eyes, although the man did not seem to be the least alarmed. His thioat was bound up in olive oil, which was rancid, but the only kind on hand. The region of wound was hard and somewhat painful, probably from being bruised by the teeth of the man sucking the wound, and remained so for about three hours. There were no further bad conse- quences from the injury, and the jiatient was soon returned to duty. No internal remedy was administered.