EEPOET OF SURGICAL OASES IN THE ARMY. 78 OOLXXI.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Flesh-Wound of the Thigh. By H. S. S(!HBLl, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Colonel Henry B. Carrington, 18th Infantry, was accidentally wounded, on February 5, 18G7, by a conoidal ball, wliicli entered the apex of Scarpa's triangle, and, passing obliquely downward and outward, glanced from the bone and lodged under the skin on the outside of the thigh. He arrived at Fort Laramie, Dakota Territory, on February 9th. The limb was swollen and inflamed, and there was partial loss of sensation in the lower jjart of the thigh and leg. The patient was feverish and suffered much pain. On February 10th, having administered ether, I made a linear incision, and removed the ball. The inflammation subsided, and the wound of incision healed rapidly. On Februar3^ 21, 18G7, the jjatient had sufiELciently recovered to resume his journey to his station. Fort McPherson. The three following reports relate to cases of wounds of the great vessels or nerves of the thigh, and two reports that have come to hand while these pages were passing through the press, which should have been placed here, will be found near the close of the chapter. CCLXXH.—Report of a Case of Gtinshot Flesh- Wound of the Thigh. By C. E. Greenleap, Assist- ant Sui-geon, U. S. A. Henry O. Clinton, Artificer, Co. C, 2d Infantry, was shot in a street brawl, at Louisville, Kentucky, on October 19, 18G8, through the right thigh, by a round pistol ball, which i>assed obliquely through from behind, severing the femoral artery and vein, at the point where the artery jjasses through the adductor magnus. Death occurred in a few minutes, from hnemorrhage. CCLXXIII.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Thigh and Leg. By S. M. Hokton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Thomas Carnovan, citizen, aged 17 years, was wounded by Indians, at night, while sitting by a camp fire, just outside the stockade of Fort Philip Kearney, Dakota Tei-ritory. The missiles were suioposed to be slugs from a shot-gun. Two of them entered the inner side of the right thigh, in the middle third, two inches apart, and passed through just behind the femur. Two others passed through the calf of the leg of the same side; another comminuted the bones of the second joint of the forefinger of the right hand. He was admitted to the hospital of the post on Novem- ber 2,18GG. Simple dressings were applied, and liquor of the persulphate of iron was used to arrest venous h;emorrliage. The patient died on November Gth from shock, venous h;cmorrhage, and gangrene of the leg. An autopsy revealed laceration of the femoral nerve, and injury to the femoral vein. CCLXXIY.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Thigh. By R. Sharpe, M. D., Acting Assist- ant Surgeon. Private Williams, Co. D., 21th Infantry, was accidentally wounded by the discharge of a rifle in the hands of anotlier soldier, March 25, 1870, on the North Llano, Texas, while in the line of duty. The wound was dressed on tiie spot, and the i)atient was brought to hospital at Mc- Kavett next day. The ball was found to have entered the left thigh, externally, at about the upper third, and, emerging almost opposite, had entered the right thigh, and made its final exit about four inches below the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, on outer surftice of limb, the l)all in its i)assag('just grazing botli femoral bones. Imniodiatcly after the accident he complained of a feeling of numbness of the left leg, and was unable to move it or the foot. The