151 ARROW-WOUNDS. arrow-lieads have been literally impacted, tlie vitreous table being penetrated as cleanly as the outer. This is in such marked contrast to the results of bayonet or sword thrusts or of the impact of gunshot projectiles as to merit notice. Arrow - Wounds of the Chest.—Seven cases were specially reported. Among them were two remarkable instances of recovery after penetration of the plueral cavity by arrows. CCCCLXV.—Note of an Arroiv-Wonnd of the Chest. By F. Damoitr, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private George Duggau, Troop K, Stli Cavalry, was wounded near Camp Willow Grove, Arizona Territory, November 8, 1867, by an arrow, which penetrated the posterior side of the right chest. He died December 17,1867. At the autoi^sy, the arrow was found to have penetrated the chest a little above the diaphragm, with which the head of the arrow was lying in contact. There was also an abscess containing much purulent matter. CCCCLXVI.—Mention of a Fatal Arrow-Wound of the Lung. By Henky Lippincott, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Benjamin McOasey, Troop IT, 7th Cavalry, was wounded at the engagement of Washita Eiver, November 27, 1868, by an arrow which entered the left side at the fourth intercostal space, and passed backward and upward into the lung. Stimulants and opiates were administered with cold-water dressings to the wound. The i)atient expectorated a great deal of blood. Death resulted on November 30, 1868. CCCCLXVII.—Account oj Tivo Cases of Arroic-Wounds, compiled from Memoranda on the Montlily Report of Sid: and Wounded at Fort C. H. Smith, for September, 1866. By H. M. Matthews, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Case 1.—Corporal Alvin H. Stables, Co. D, 18th Infantry, received September 20, 1866, two arrow-wounds in addition to a gunshot wountl of the head. One arrow entered the left chest --.posteriorly, and transfixed the thorax, the arrow-point raising the skin above the right nipple; the other arrow passed through the chest to the left of the median line. The soldier was then scalped by the Indians, and killed. Case 2.—Private Thomas Fitzpatrick, Co. D, 18th Infantry, in an engagement with Indians in Montana, was killed by numerous arrow, gunshot, and contused wounds. One arrow penetrated the chest through the left axilla; another, entering under the right nipple, penetrated the vertebral column; a third perforated the left elbow-joint; a fourth and fifth had entered the thorax pos- teriorly above and below the scapula, A musket ball had passed through the heart, and a second through the right knee-joint. The skull was crushed in from behind by a war club, and there was a tomahawk wound of the left temporal region. CCCCLXVIII.—Report of an Arrow-Wound oj the Lung, resulting in Pleurisy, and follotoed hy Recovery. By A. Muller, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. John Fenske, a civilian, aged 19 years, came to Fort Ridgely, Minnesota, on the night of August 20, 1862, for surgical aid and i)rotectiou, having been w^ouuded on the previous day by an Indian arrow, which was shot a distance of about twelve feet, and had entered the back horizontally between the third and fourth ribs of the left side, close to the vertebrre. The arrow, a barbed one,