ARROW-WOUNDS. 161 From the narrative of their explorations by Lewis and Clarke, from Schoolcraft's History, and from the works of Mr. Squier and other writers on North American ethnology, and the reports of the Commissioners on Indian Affairs, many interesting particulars can be gleaned respecting the use of the bow and arrow, but the most important recent con- tributions to our knowledge of wounds by arrows have been made by Surgeon W. F. Edgar, U. S. A.; Dr. T. C. Henry;* Surgeon B. A. Clements,-}- U. S. A.; Surgeon J. H. Bill,J U. S. A; Assistant Surgeon E. Coues,§ U. S. A.; Professor C. A. Pope, || Dr. A. Muller,** and the authors of the foregoing reports. In the foregoing reports of eighty-three cases of arrow-wounds, twenty-six, including nearly all in which the three great cavities, or the larger bones or joints were involved, proved fatal. A greater fatality would be represented had more complete returns been made.ff In hostilities in the Indian country, military and other exigencies sometimes * Gross. A System of Surgery, 4tli ed. Philadelphia, 1866. Vol. I, p. .361. t Clements, quoted in Hamilton's Military Surgery. t Bill, Amei'ican. Journal of the Medical Sciences, N. S. Vol. XLIV, p. 365. § CouES, The Medical and Surgical Beporter, 1866. Vol. XIV, ^. 321. II Pope, St Louis Medical and Surgical Journal, January, 18G4. ** Dr. Muller rei:)orts some uupuhlished facts of historical as well as surgical interest: " Dakota is the vernacular designation of the Sioux Indians, and the whole nation is divided into seven principal tribes viz. I. Mdewakauton wans; (Village of the Spirit Lake), about 2,000 souls. II. Wahpckutes, (Leaf Shooters), about 500 to 600 persons. III. Walipetonwans, (Village in the Lea,ves), about 1,000 to 1,200 souls. IV. Sisitonwans, (Village in the Marsh), Sisiton, about 2,500 souls. V. Yanktonwanna, (End Village Band), about 4,000 souls. VI. Yanktonwaus, (Village at the End), about 2,400 xjersons. VII. Tetonwans, (Village of the Prairie), about 12,500 souls. Prior to the great Indian outbreak in Minnesota, iu August, 1862, the three first-uamed bands occupied the country east and south of the Red Wood River, on the Upper Minnesota River, and were, therefore, called Lower Sioux; while the four last-named lived further west, on the Upper Minnesota River, at Lac-qui-parle, at and west of Big Stone Lake, or Lake Travers, to the Upper Missouri River, in Dakota Territory, and called " Upper Sioux," where the " Tetous" still reside; while all the rest of the tribe, were driven from the State of Minnesota in 1862, and are now scattered all over the western plains, on both shores of the Missouri River. In their warfare they use all sorts of shot-guns, from an old flint-lock musket to the best kind of Kentnckj' rifles, the younger and jioorer of them being obliged to resort to hows and arroics for the chase and for battles The arrow shafts are prepared from hickory, white ash, and a willow which grows iu abundance along the banks of all the streams. The arrows of the same tribe are not always made of the same size and material, and are shaped by the savages according to their prevailing fancy; the Tetous, on the Upper Missouri,for instance, using both iron arrow heads and also those made out of flint. No iiarticular difference exists between the war arrow and the arrow for the chase, although most of the Indians are in the habit of paintingthe shafts of their arrows prior to their going on the war jjath, with red and other colors. For the chase of smaller birds and other animals, arrows without heads are used, a knob of different size being cut out of the wood the arrow is made of in place of the head. In order also to prevent the easy extraction of the arrow head, the war arrows are often only glued to the shaft, which glue beconung softened from blood, &c., readily detaches the head from the shaft. Burning punk is also often attached to the arrow, for the purpose of setting fire to houses, &c. The iron heads are prepared by the Indians, and also furnished iirincipally by blacksmiths in the Government employ. The Indians make them out of hoop and sheet iron, the shape and sharpness being given by means of a file, according to convenience. No radical difference exists in the arrow heads of dift'erent tribes. In the same quiver of an Indian belonging 1^) any one tribe, a great variety of different shajied arrow heads will be found, which proves that the same tribe follows no special type, but fashions them according to any kind of taste. The shallow groove which exists longitudinally down the entire length of each shaft, has, to my knowledge, no particular object, and the feathers used on the arrows are taken from almost any bird, such ones possessing gay colors being pre- ferred, principally by the Upper Sioux (Sisitous) Indians. The various colored bands at the rear end of the arrows arc purely ornamental, and have no other significance, so far as I could'ascertain. tt I cannot find on file in the War Department reports of the casualties of the engagement in which Brevet Lieutenant Colonel W. J. Fetterman, Eighteenth Infantry, and forty-nine soldiers, were killed, most of them by arrow-wounds, near Fort Philip Kearney, December 21, 1866; or of General W. S. Hancock's engagement with the Cheyeunes, at Pawnee Fork, on April 13, 1867; or of Lieutenant Colonel G. A. Custer's attack on the Black Kettle Band, at Washita, Novem- ber 27,1868 ; or of Major E. A. Carr's affair with the Sioux, at Beaver Creek, October 18,1868 ; or of Major A. W. Evans's fight with the Comanches, December 25,1868; or of the encounter of Major E. A. Baker, with the Piegans, at Mountain Chief, Montana, January 23, 1870. In all of these engagements the newspapers state that arrows, as well as fire-arms, were employed by the Indians.—Ed. 21