186 EEPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. injury of the left wrist-joint, caused by a log falling upon it. Tincture of iodine was applied to tlie wrist, and a lotion of lead water and laudanum kept upon the parts. This failing to reduce the inflammation, a poultice of linseed was applied, and openings were made for the exit of pus. Tonics and a generous diet were prescribed ; but the ])atient being of a scrofulous habit, the inflammation extended to the elbow, and pus having formed iu the joint, together with bad tendency of the injury to the wrist, it was deemed best to amputate at the lower third of the humerus, whiicli was done on August 13th. Dry dressings were apjilied, and the stump healed kindly, but the asthma still contiuued, and the patient subsequently suffered from abscess of the thyroid gland, which, after being opened, continued to discharge until September 1,18CG, when it closed up. On Decem- ber 23d, another abscess formed in the thyroid gland, leaving an opening in the circoid cartilage, througli which expiration and inspiration took place, and the patient expectorated a great deal of pus. He gradually sank until December 27th, at 3 P. M., when he expired. A.post-mortem exam- ination, sixteen hours afterward, revealed an abscess in the thyroid gland containing about two ounces of pus ; the apices of both lungs were filled with tubercle ; the right pleura was adherent around the entire lung, and the heart was hypertrophied. DXXXVIII.—Report of an Amptitation of the Arm for Gunshot Injury. By J. F. BouaHTER, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Edward Randall, a trapper, aged Gl years, was accidentally shot in the right arm at Flandreau, . on the Big Sioux River, on October 20, 18GS. He started alone with a two-horse team, and without assistance reached Fort Dakota, Dakota Territory, on the evening of the 23d, much exhausted, but pulse good. Stimulants were administered and the patient was put to bed, when upon examination of the wound it was found that a round musket ball, weighing an ounce, had entered the middle third of the fore-arm anteriorly, and, having passed obliquely upward and outward, had lodged against the lower extrejnity of the humerus, producing an extensive comminuted fracture which extended into the elbow-joint and some distance up the shaft. The arm from the hand to the shoul- der was much swollen. There were incipient symptoms of traumatic gangrene; blebs, containing dark-colored fluid, covered the hand and fore-arm, a few being scattered on the arm and scapular region; a dark, yellowish blush extended to the shoulder-joint; and the muscles were much infil- trated. It was determined to operate immediately, and, at 1 o'clock the same night, the arm was amputated in the upper third, by the lateral flap operation. The flaps were much infiltrated, and had an unhealthy appearance. Three ligatures were applied, the stump was dressed with cold- water dressings, and an anody ne was administered, and repeated iu an hour. The patient rested well, and the next morning breakfasted on light and stimulating diet. A few drops of chlorinated soda Avere added to the cold-water dressings. He slept well during the next night without an anodyne. The following morning, his bowels not baving moved since the injury', cathartics were given. The stump, by this time, was much swollen, and was discharging a bloody serum; the shoulder was also swollen, blush extending over region of scaijula. His appetite contiuued good. On the 27th, one suture was removed. The edges of incision ai)peared to be healing too rapidly, preventing discharge of pus; a poultice was applied. On the 28th, the remaining sutures were removed, and the stump was dressed with stra[)S and bandages. On the 29th the patient complained of spasmodic twitching of muscles of stump with pain while dozing. On ifovember 1st, the ligatures came away, and the swelling of stump and shoulder was nearly gone. From this time he imj^roved rapidly. On the 17tb healthy granulations having sprung up in two places of incision, nitrate of silver was applied ; and on December 7th, the stump being entirely healed, excepting a slight sinus at anterior edge of incision, the application was repeated, a small tent was inserted, and the edges brought together with, small adhesive straps. On December 14th the arm was entirely healed; it was bandaged, and a pad placed in axilla. On the 15th he left for his home in Canada, which he reached safely on January G, 1869. At this date, and.during the treatment, he comiflaiued of some numbness in the arm. His pulse had varied according to the comfort of the stump, it having fallen after dressing on the fourth day, from eighty to sixty-four. The operator says in his report of the case, that " the patient's age, his being over three days without any assistance (being obliged to take care