GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE UPPER EXTEEMITIES. 65 CCXXII.—Note of a Case of Premature Diseliarge of a Cannon. RigM Fore-Arm carried away. By William Oeaig, M, D., Acting Assistant Surgeou. Sergeant John Soutliwood, Co. K, 40tli Infantry, aged 39 years, was wounded May 1, 18G7, by tlie premature discharge of a cannon, Avbicli carried away tlie left fore-arm, eight inches below the elbow, and severely contused the left breast and shoulder. He was admitted to the post hospital the same day. Stimulants and tonics were administered, and cooling lotions ajiplied externally. He died May 13th from pneumonia. CCXXIII.—Memorandum of a Case in toliicli the Fore-Arm teas torn off by a Large Projectile. By William Craig, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Sergeant Charles H. Peterson, Co. K, 40th Infantry, aged 25 years, was wounded May 1, 18G7, by the premature discharge of a cannon, which carried away the right fore-arm, sis inches below the elbow, and severely contused the right breast. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Caswell, North Carolina, the same day. Stimulants were administered, and olive oU and lime water applied externally. He died May 1st, from the great shock. CCXXIV.—Note of a Case of Ounshot Fracture of Radius and Ulna. By G. H. GuNN, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Thomas Foster, Co. I, 9th Cavalry, aged 24 years, was wounded August 24, 1870, by a conoidal ball, which fractured both bones of the right fore-arm. He was admitted to the post hos- pital at Fort Quitman, Texas, on the same day. The treatment consisted of splints and simple dressings. On December IGth he was discharged from service on surgeon's certificate of disability. Gunshot Wounds of the Hand.—Special reports were made of twenty cases. Sev- enteen patients went to duty, and three were disclaarged. CCXXV.—Note of a GunsJiot Wound of the Hand. By P. Middleton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A, Sergeant P. W. Bryant, Co. G, 14th Infantry, aged 21 years, was wounded at Camp Whipple, Arizona Territory, on December 17, 1868, by the accidental discharge of a pistol; the ball entered to the right of the median line, midway between the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation and the articulation of the first and second phalangeal bones, and emerged directly opposite, fracturing the first phalangeal bone without injuring the tendons. He was admitted to the post hospital, where the finger was placed in a splint and cold-water dressings applied. He recovered and was returned to duty in February, 1869. CCXXVI.—Bejyort of a Gunshot Wound of the Hand. By A. C. Gieard, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Martin Cramer, Co. A, 19th Infantry, aged 24 years, was accidentally wouded at Baton Eouge, Louisiana, April 23, 1870, by a conoidal ball, wliich caused a partial fracture of middle finger of left hand. He was admitted to the post hospital, where several small splinters of bone were extracted. The wound suppurated freely, and had healed on May 16, 1870, when the patient was returned to duty. CCXXVII.—Ifeniion of a Case of Ounshot Wound of the Hand. By E. Cowles, Assistant Surgeon, U. S, A. Private Bernard Cunningham, Co. K, 4th Cavalry, aged 27 years, was accidentally shot on September 15, 1868, at Brownsville, Texas. A ball entered the volar surface of the left hand, and fractured the second and third metacarpal bones. There was considerable hfemorrhage 9