EEPOET OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 64 CCXVI.—Mention of a Gunshot Fracture of the Eadhis. By F. Geisdorff, M. D., Acting Assist- ant Surgeon. Sergeant Edward Oliver, Co. A, 27tli Infantry, aged 25 years, received, on August 4, 186S, an accidental gunsliot wound. A rifle ball had entered the right fore-arm anteriorily one inch above tlie wrist-joint, fracturing the radius, and made its exit two inches above the joint. Wound of entrance four lines in diameter; of exit, sixteen lines; area of wound, 12.56, 176 in square lines. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Philip Kearney, Dakota Territory, on the same day. Cold-water dressings were applied. He was transferred to the field hospital of a detachment of the 27th Infantry, He was discharged February 27, 1869, for anchylosis of right fore-arm. CCXVII.—Note of a Case of Gunshot Fracture of the Ulna. By J. W. Williams, Assistant Sur- geon, U. S. A. Private John Tracey, Co. B, 16th Infantry, was admitted to the post hospital at Atlanta, Georgia, on November 28, 1868, with a pistol shot wound of the right fore-arm, fracturing the ulna, received November 27th. He was transferred to his company at Dahlouega, Georgia, on January 28, 1869. CCXVIII.—Report of a Gunshot Fracture of the Vina. By B, EoCTOE, M. D,, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Thomas Ti-owell, Co. G, 128th Colored Troops, was wounded in a mutiny on Folly Island, South Carolina, July 19, 1866, by a pistol ball, which fractured the ulna of the left arm. He was admitted to the post hospital at Charleston, South Carolina, the same day, and returned to duty August 22d. CCXIX.—Eeport of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Fore-Arm, By W. H. Smith, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Welcome Joseph, Troop B, 8th Cavalry, aged 18 years, was wounded May 6, 1869, in a fight with Indians near Camp Verde, Arizona Territory. The ball fractured the radius, pass- ing through the left fore-arm between the radius and ulna, diagonally from the end of the elbow in front'to the middle of the fore-arm behind. He was admitted to the post hospital, where the frac- tured bone was set. Small pieces of bone were from time to time removed, and on June 17th, a large piece, grooved by the ball, was cut down upon and taken out. On June 30th, the wound was healing rapidly, the limb promising to be serviceable, and without deformity. CCXX.—Mention of a Gunshot Fracture of the Ulna. By E, Tanszky, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Sergeant George Smith, Troop A, 9th Cavalry, aged 21 years, was wounded at Fort Stockton, Texas, December 26, 1868, by a pistol ball, which fractured the ulna of the left fore-arm. He was admitted to the post hospital, where foreign bodies were removed from the wound, and cold-water lotions were applied. He was returned to duty in February, 1869. CCXXL—JSeporf of a Gunshot Wound of the Fore-Arm. By F, Mbacham, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A, Private Edward Jones, Co. G, 36th Infantry, aged 22 years, and of scrofulous diathesis, was wounded at Camp Douglas, Utah Territory, on March i, 1868, by a conoidal ball which entered near the lower third of the right ulna on the inner side, passed through the llexor muscles of the carpus and of the hand, injured the ulnar nerve, and emerged near the internal condyle of the humerus. He was admitted to the post hospital at Camj) Douglas, Utah Territory, where water- dressings were applied. The case did well until April 22d, when eczema set in, which gave way to appropriate treatnu'ut. On July 27, 1S68, he was discharged from service ; there was considera- ble loss of motion in the elbow and wrist-joint, with loss of sensation in the little linger and outside of the ring-finger.