26 EEPORT OF SUEGICAL CASES LIS THE ARMY. LXIII.—Note of a Case of Recovery after a Penetrating Gunshot Wounil of the Thorax. By A. 0. GiEARD, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Sergeant James Naylor, Co. M, 9tli United States Cavalry, aged 26 years, was wounded on July 4, 1870, in a liglit, by a fellow-soldier. A couoidal ball entered the right breast, striking the fifth rib, and penetrating the thoracic cavity, producing severe constitutional shock. The ball was not extracted or found. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort McKavett, Texas, on July 4, 1870, and was treated by Acting Assistant Surgeon R. Sharpe. Simple dressings were applied. He was returned to duty on September 20, 1870. LXIV.—Note of a Case of Recovery after Perforation of the Chest by a Pistol-Ball. By J. F. Weeds, Surgeon, TJ. S. A. Private Walter R. Oliver, Co. D. 14th United States Infantiy, aged 21 years, was wounded on September 11,1869, by a pistol-ball. The missile entered between the posterior border of the scap- ula and the vertebrje, two inches above the inferior angle, and escaped two and a half inches below the middle of the clavicle, passing directly above the base of the heart. He was admitted to the post hospital at Nashville, Tennessee, on September 11th, and simple dressings were applied to the wounds. He is still in hospital awaiting discharge on surgeon's certificate of disability. LXV.—Report of a Gunshot Wound of the Chest., having a Successful Termination. By F. Meacham, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Thomas Stewart, Co. F, 14th United States Infantry, a prisoner at Omaha Barracks, Nebraska, was shot through the upper lobe of the right lung, while attempting to escape from a sentinel, November 7, 1870. The ball entered near the union of the third rib with its cartilage in front, and emerged between the fifth and sixth ribs, just below the anterior boxxler of the right sca- pula. When brought to the post hospital, about half an hour after the reception of the injury, he was suffering very severely from pain and shock, the pulse was scarcely perceptible, feet and liands cold, countenance dusky, and the whole body covered with a profuse cold perspiration. Air was escaping from the anterior wound with every expiration. The sputa was streaked with blood, and blood was escaping from the lower opening. The anterior wound was closed with adhesive plaster and the posterior wound covered with lint to allow the escape of blood. Brandy and morphia were freely administered, and hot applications made to the upper and lower extremities. The patient rallied from the shock, and slept well during the night. On the next day the liiBraorrhage had entirely ceased, and he was feeling very comfortable. He continued to improve, and, on Novem- ber 15th, was able to sit up in bed. On November 29th, having absented himself from hospital for several hours without leave, he was returned to the guard-house, where the wound was dressed daily for about four weeks, at the expiration of which time he had entirely recovered and was returned to duty. LXVI.—Memorandum of a Case of Recovery from a Penetrating Gunshot Wound of the Chest. By C. Bacon, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Henry Freyer, Co. C, 6th United States Cavalry, aged 20 years, was admitted to regimental liospital near Austin, Texas, on June 2, 1867, with a gunshot penetrating wound of the chest, received June 2, 1807, at the hands of a citizen. PTe was transferred on the same day to the post hospital. He recovered, and was returned to duty in July, 1867. LXVII.—Note of a Case of Gnmhot Wound of the Chest. By W. S. Hendriokson, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Holman Doleman, Co. L, 10th United States Colored Cavalry, aged 23 years, was acci- dentally wounded on March 30, 1870, by a round pistol-ball, which passed below the right nipple, l)enetrat('(l the ))leural cavity, and lodged oi)posite tlu'. articulation of the sixth costal cartilage with the sternum. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Arbuckk', Cherokee Nation, on the same day. Tlie treatment consisted in simple dressings. He was returiuHl to duty on May 26, 1870.