43 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. CXXVII.—Report of a Case of Perforation of the Duodenum by a Pistol Ball. By C. H. Alden, Surgeon, U. S. A. Lieutenant George F. Mason, 5tli United States Cavalry, was shot iu a quarrel with a citizen, near Fort D. A. Russell, Wyoming Territory, on March 1, 1870. The ball was from a Colt's Navy revolver, and entered about two and a half inches above the umbilicus, a little to the right of the median line, ranged downward and backward, i^erforating the duodenum a short distance below the stomach, dividing the mesenteric vessels in several places, and passed out about two and a half inches to the left of the median line posteriorly and opposite the fourth lumbar vertebra. Inter- nal hfemorrhage was the immediate cause of death, which took place soon after the reception of the injury, March 1, 1870. CXXYHI.—Memorandum of a Fatal Case of Ounshot Wound of the Small Intestines. By James Saunders, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private John Hoffman, Co. A, 6th United States Cavalry, aged 28 years, was wounded in a skirmish at Farmersville, Texas, on November 19, 1808, by a conoidal ball which perforated the jejunum. The treatment consisted of stimulants and anodynes. He died on November 20, 1868. The skirmish occurred about twenty-five miles from Pilot Grove, Texas, and the case was treated by Dr. Netherby, of that place. His remains were brought to the post, where they were interred. CXXIX.—Report of a Fatal Gunshot Wound of the Small Intestines. By H. H. Smith, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon, Private Joseph Clark, Co. C, 14th United States Infantry, was shot by Indians four miles from Camp Verde, Arizona Territory, on May 6,1869. The ball entered just over the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium on the left side, and, passing across and upward, lodged in the right hypochondrium, after perforating the peritonjeum and small intestines. He ran or walked half way into camp, and was carried the remainder of the way on a hand-litter. He never recovered from the shock, and his stomach was so irritable that he vomited frequently and could retain nothing. At length, being able to retain a dose of morphia which was administered in a small powder with a few grains of prepared chalk, he slept a considerable portion of the night. Toward morning he took and retained wine and water, and later was able to retain brandy and water; but he could not be induced to take food in any form. He had a passage of fteces and blood. There were slight spots and streaks of blood in the vomited matter. The jjatient died on the morning of May 7, 1869. CXXX.—Minute of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Ileum and Jejumim. By William A. Cant- kell, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Corporal James Dunn, Co. C, 28th United States Infantry, was brought to the post hospital at Little Eock, Arkansas, on the night of March 6, 1868, in an intoxicated condition, having received a wound of the abdomen by the accidental discharge of a small pocket-pistol, in his own hands, while resisting the efforts of a policeman to disarm him. Death resulted on the morning of March 7th. At the autopsy the ball was found to have entered a little above and to the right of the umbilicus, passing backward and to the left through the convolutions of the ileum and jejunum, cutting some of the branches of the superior mesenteric vein, and to have lodged on the left of the spine. The abdominal cavity was filled with clotted blood. CXXXI.—Abstract of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Small Intestines. By William M. Notson, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Edward Stuvan, Co. G, 4th United States Cavalry, aged 29 years, was wounded in a drunken scuffle on June 19, 1870, by a conoidal ball, in the abdomen. He was admitted on the same day to the United States post hospital at Fort Concho, Texas. There was no treatment, death being almost instantaneous from internal hiemorrhage.