205 AMPUTATIONS OF THE THIGH. than twelve ounces of pus. Acute necrosis invaded the shaft of the tibia, and a fortnight after the evacuation of the abscess, Doctor Eeily hehl a consultation with Professor Johnson Eliot, who advised an exploratory incision, with a view of ascertaining the extent of the disease of the tibia. On December 24, 1870, the lad was etherized, and the bone being exposed by two incisions on the anterior aspect of the limb, it was found that the bone was diseased to such an extent that no resection, nor even an amputation in the continuity, was practicable. It was therefore determined to amputate at the knee-joint. This operation was performed by Dr. James E. Eeily, assisted by Professor J. Eliot and Dr. J. D. Barnes. The integuments were divided circularly, two inches below the knee-joint, and reflected, the patella was removed, and the leg disarticulated. The femoral was completely controlled by a tourniquet, and there was little or no hsEmorrhage. The condyles of the femur were then sawn off", a slice half an inch in thickness being removed. Tlie integument was then brought together antei-o-posteriorly, and united by wire sutures. It was only necessary to ligate the popliteal artery. The patient reacted promptly and progressed favorably. The pathological specimen, with the history, was contributed to the Army Medical Museum by the operator, and is No. 5736, Surgical Section. On January 16,1871, the wound had entirely healed, and the boy was going about the house. A few weeks subsequently, he called at this office. The stump then presented a very fair appearance, and the boy's health Avas good. Amputations of the Thigh.—There were reports of twenty-six cases. Seventeen fol- lowed gisnshot-wounds ; six, accidents ; three, diseases. The results were very successful. DLXXXIV.—iVbfe on an Amputation of the TJiigli for OunsliotInjury. By Chaeles Smaet, Assist- ant Surgeon, U. S. A. George W. Albright, a citizen, aged 40 years, received, in a quarrel, August 15,1866, a gunshot fracture of the right femur, lower third. The femur was splintered, longitudinally, for six inches. On the same day he was admitted to post hospital, Camp McDowell, Arizona Territory, and, on the next day, I administered chloroform, and amputated the thigh by the flap [method. The tissues were in a healthy condition. On the 15th of October, the flaps were firmly united, and on November 23, 1866, he was sent away from hospital. DLXXXV.—Memorandum relative to a Secondary Amputation of the Thigh. Private C. M. Bowen, Co. A, 27th Indiana Yolunteers, had his left femur fractured by a mus- ket ball, at the battle of Antietam, on September 17, 1862. He was admitted to Hospital No. 1, Frederick, Maryland, where Buck's apparatus was aj^plied. Five months subsequently, he was removed to Baltimore. There were numerous abscesses, and the liatient underwent two opera- tions for the removal of necrosed bone. On September 7, 1863, he was discharged the service, with the limb greatly deformed. He received a pension, and was enqfloyed in the Interior Department. Owing to recurrence of abscesses he was admitted to Provi- dence HosiJital in the autumn of 1867, and on November 11th, the limb was amputated in the middle third by Dr. D. W. Bliss. The wound healed well, and a photo- graph was taken at the Army Medical Museum on Jan- uary 9, 1868, at which time the stump was firm and healthy. The siiecimen, with the historj^, was contributed by the operator to the Army Medical Museum, and is represented in the adjacent wood-cut. The fragments are considerably overlapi>ed, Jiaving undergone unusual disturbance, and the amount of callus exceeds what is necessary for complete union. On March 10, 1871, the patient was a clerk in the Pension Office ; the stump was healthy, but his general health poor. Fig. 41.—Gunshot fracture of the lower third of left fe- mur. S2MC. 4914, Sect. I., A. M. M.