144 REPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. ARROW ¥OUNUS. The illustrious Baron Percy was wont to declare* that military surgery had its origin in the treatment of wounds inflicted by darts and arrows, and used to quote his favorite poetf in behalf of his belief, and to cite Chiron, and Machaon's patients, Menelaus and Philoctetes, and Eurypiles treated by Patroclus. He was even tempted to believe, with Sextus,J that the name (V-r/x)?, medicus, was derived from idq, which anciently signified sagitta, and that the earliest function of our surgical predecessors was the extraction of arrows and darts. An instrument called belulcum, from /?t^/!»?, telum, a dart, was invented during the long Peloponnesian war (B. 0. 431, 405). It" was a rude pincers or extracting forceps, and was used by Hippocrates in the many campaigns in which he served. His immediate successor. Diodes, invented a complicated instrument for extracting foreign bodies, called graphiscos, and consisting of a canula with hooks.|| It was not until the wars of Augustus that Heras of Cappadocia designed the famous duck- bill forceps, which, with every conceivable modification, has continued in use to our time. Celsus § instructs us that, in extracting arrow-heads, the entrance wound should be dilated, the barb of the arrow-head crushed by strong pliers, or protected between the grooves of a split reed, and thus withdrawn without laceration of the soft parts. Paulus JEgineta"[[ also treated fully of arrow-wounds, and described an atracton used in his day to remove firmly impacted arrows. Albucasis and the Arabian school did little or nothing toward advancing our knowledge of the means of extracting foreign bodies. After the fourteenth century the attention of surgeons was directed to wounds from projectiles impelled by gunpowder. Yet the use of bows and arrows in warfare continued, and we find Par^ treating of this class of injuries with the sovereign good sense that characterized all he wrote. As the use of fire-arms became prevalent, the literature of arrow-wounds became meagre, and the subject is now rarely referred to in systematic works. The considerable number of cases reported by our medical ofl&cers possess therefore the greater interest. Multiple Arrow-Wounds.—Dr. Bill, who has printed an interesting essay** on this subject, remarking upon the rapidity with which the American Indians discharge their arrows, states that it is exceptional to meet with a single wound ; that if one arrow takes effect it is immediately followed by two or more others. Of the seven following cases, six were fatal: CCCCLI.—Report of a Case of Three Wounds from Arrows. By C. 0. Gray, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private William Imbler, Co. H, 31st Infantry, while a few hundred yards from camp, at Fort Stevenson, Dakota Territory, on October 10, 1867, was severely wounded by Indian arrows, one of * Manuel du Cbirurgien d'Aim^e, p. 4. || See Andrea della Croce, Lib. 7, p. 173; Venet. 1574. t Homer, Iliad, Book XI. § Celsus, De Medicina, Lib. VII, cap. V. \ Sextus, Advers. Math., Lib. I, cap. 2. H Paulus ^gineta, De re Medica, Lib. VI, cap. 88. ** Bill, American Journal of the Medical Sciences, Vol. XLIV, p. 365.