REPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 190 he was anassthetized, when a furtlier examination of the injury led to the couchision that a prompt removal at the articnlatiou was the best and only chance of saving life. As the subclavian could not be properly compresed, owing to a full development of the chest and shoulders, and the absence of proper assistance, a touruiqiiet was applied over the axillary artery and retained in situ by an assistant, the screw being placed over the superior border of the scapula and retained in position by a tape passed around the chest. An incision, begun immediately below the acromion process, was carried down through the belly of the deltoid muscle, about three inches; then, making a curve around the external extremity of the humerus to the axilla, a similar flap was made on the inner side, and the bone was disarticulated. The axillary artery was ligated, and after the cessation of a little venous oozing, the flaps were brought together by interrupted sutui-es aud adhesive strips, not more than an ounce of blood having been lost during the operation. The patient reacted promptly, when a stimulant, followed by an anodyne, was administered, and cold-water dressings were applied. He slept well, and on the ISth his condition was fair. The remaining treatment in this case wa&. chiefly expectant. By December 31st the patient had entirely recovered with a good round shoulder. He was discharged April 9,18G7. The specimen, with the history, was contributed to the Army Medical Museum, by the operator, and is No. 5595, Surgical Section. AMPUTATION IN THE LOWER EXTREMITIES Amputations of the Toes.—Special reports of twenty-two cases of tliis nature were received. Eighteen were due to frost-bites ; four to injuries. Xajuo. Kank. Co. Kcglmcnt. Nature of injury. Parts removed. Ecniark. Barrage, Jolm Barry, David Beli, John Bovel, Joliu Brown, Samuel CouneU, Patrick .. Fiskcr, John Gardiner, James A Gay, Tliomas Gibben, James Honig, Charles... Hughes, Edward. Civilian . Private Private Corporal .. Private Private Private.. Private Private. Private. Private... Private... ?th Cavalry. 10th Cavalry.. 13th Inl'antry . 10th Cavalry.. 20th lulautry. 5th Artillery. 2d ArtiUery.. 8th Cavalry., Cth Infantry 13th Infantry . I8th Infantry . Frost-bite -.., Frost-bite Frost-bite Frost-bite Frost-bite Frost-bite....... Unknown Frost-bite Gimshot wound Frost-bite Frost-bite. Frost-bite. Second phalanx of right great toe, and oiiter third of second phalanx of left great toe. Great too and first phalanx of second toe of lelt foot, and first phalanx of great toe of right foot. Left great too at metatarso- phalangeal articulation. All the toes of the right foot in the continuity of tho meta- tarso-phalangeal articulation. Eight great toe and head of metatarsal bone. Great toe and head of first meta- tarsal bone of left foot, and balance of toes at metatarso- phalangeal articulation. Second toe of each foot Toes at metatarso-phalangeal articulation. Second toe of left foot at meta- tarso-phalangeal articulation. Second phalanx of right great toe; also, both thumbs at sec- ond phalangeal joints, second and third phalanges of index and middle fingers, and third phalanx of ring finger of right hand, and second and third phalanges of first, second, and ring fingers, and fourth finger at metacarpo-phalangeal joint. All the toes of left foot Great toe of right foot in middle of first phalanx, and great toe of left foot at metatarso-pha- langeal articulation. Discharged from hospital April 4, 18G8. Discharged June 22,1868. Returned to duty Feb- ruary 25, 1868. Discharged Juno 19,1868. Eeturned to duty March 16, 1869. Transferred to tho Sol- diers' Home, W^ashing- toB, D. C, October 8, 18T0. Discharged January 4,1869. Discharged April 4,1868. Eeturned to duty April 3, 1868. Inmate of the Soldiers' Home, at Dayton, Ohio. Discharged August 17,1867. Discharged October 7,1867.