Ill CONCUSSION AND COMPEESSION OF THE BEAIN. fusedly; complained of great pain in tlie head. He was kept quiet, and the treatment continued. He slept a little during the night, but was restless at intervals. The next morning, April 10th, the patient appeared quite sensible; pulse 76 and stronger; complained of severe frontal headache; skin dry and hot; no appetite and considerable thirst. Continued cold water to the head, and gave four grains of nitrate of potass, every two hours. The febrile symptoms subsided during the day, and patient slept during the night without interruption. From this time the patient rapidly improved, and on Aj>ril 18, 18G7, was dismissed from the hospital and returned to duty. CCCLXX.—Note of a Concussion of the Brain. By John E. Tallon, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. At Fort Bayard, New Mexico, September 17, 1869, Private John Fracker, Co. B, 3d Cavalry, aged 25, had a fall from his horse, producing a severe concussion of the brain. He was admitted to the post hospital the same day, and was treated by cold-water dressings, with stimulants inter- nally. The patient was gradually recovering at the close of the month, and was returned to duty some time in October. CCCLXXI.—Mention of a Case of Concussion of the Brain. By John Vansant, Surgeon, U. S. A. At Little Eock Arsenal, Arkansas, Private Michael Mooney, Co. D, 28fch Infantry, aged 19, was admitted to post hospital, December 29,1866, with concussion of brain. Eemained in the hos- pital ; nearly well at the end of the month, and was returned to duty in January, 1867. CCCLXXII.—Memorandum of a Fatal Case of Concussion of tlie Brain following a Bloic. By D. W BosLEY, Assistant Surgeon, 3d United States Colored Artillery. Private Isaiah Williams, 3d Colored Heavy Artillery, was admitted to the regimental hospital, October 31, 1865, suffering from a wound of the scalp over the right parietal bone. Tlie external table of the cranium was not fractured; but, judging from the symptoms which followed, loss of consciousness and convulsions, it was supposed that the internal table was f):actured or deiJressed. Death resulted November 15,1865. CCCLXXIII.—Case of Traumatic Apoplexy. By L. Y. LoRiNG, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John W. Thomas, Light Battery A, 2d Artillery, aged 23, was brought to the hospital at Fort Eiley, Kansas, on the morning of December 20, 1870, having been thrown from his horse to the frozen ground a few mmutes before. There was a contusion of the left cheek over the malar bone, from which there was some hfemorrhage; the lid of the left eye was bruised and congested, and a very slight bruise of the skin over the left edge of the frontal protuberance. The most careful examination failed to discover any fracture of the skull or signs of injury other than those mentioned. He was in a semi-conscious condition when admitted, and complained of the cut on his face, which he was constantly picking. He vomited several times. The pupils were con- tracted, breathing slow and labored, pulse slow and soft. Compression of the brain was diagnosed from fracture of the skull, causing either some pressure of bone upon it or rupturing a blood ves- sel, causing extravasation, accompanied by some concussion of the brain, from which he was slightly recovering. The prognosis was unfavorable, and operative interference out of the ques- tion, as there was nothing at all to indicate the seat of injury. He was covered with warm bed- clothing and warmth applied to the feet, with sinapisms to the abdomen, in order to bring about reaction. He grew rapidly worse, becoming entirely unconscious in the course of twenty minutes; the pupils became dilated and the eyes fixed and insensible. The contents of the bladder were evacuated, but not of the bowels. At 6 P. M. respiration became stertorous and sighing, and he gradually failed, dying at 9 P. M., eleven hours after the reception of the injury. A post-mortem examination was made sixteen hours after death. Biyor mortis intense; body well nourished and