SIMPLE AND COMPOUND FEACTURES. 133 clavicle, from indirect violence. There was luucb displacement, swelling, and suggillation. The indications for keeping tlie shoulder upward, outward, nud backward were fulfilled by placing a wedge-shaped pad in the axilla, which was held iu position by strings of tape i)assing around the shoulder of the opposite side; a triangular bandage was next applied, the initial end being placed on the shoulder of the sound side, and a few turns taken over it and the elbow. The arm was then fixed to the side by several more turns around the elbow aud the body, and the fore-arm was placed in a sling. Through the patient's indulgence in frolicking, the fragments, after partial union, were twice misi^laced. He recovered, and was returned to duty May 5, 1870. COOCXXII.—Remarks on a Case of Fracture of the Clavicle. Hy J. P. Kimball, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Sergeant Samuel Wright, Co. C, 13th Infantry, was admitted to the hospital at Fort Buford, Dakota Territory, October 17, 1809, with a simple fracture of the left clavicle, produced by being- thrown from a horse, and falling upon his left shoulder. The fracture was oblique, and situated near the outer end of the middle third of the clavicle. The sternal fragment overlapped the acro- mial about one inch. The patient stated that when about 10 years of age the same clavicle was broken in the same i)lace bj' direct violence, but that no subsequent deformity resulted. He does not remember to have received any treatment at that time. The present fractui^e was treated with Hamilton's apparatus.* Union appeared complete on November 9th, twenty-three days after admis- sion, and the patient was returned to duty November 13th. The limb was shortened one-quarter of an inch, with slight displacement of the outer end of the inner fragment above the inner end of the outer fragment. Fractures of the Humerus.—Besides the gunshot fractures and the cases referred to in the chapter on operations, special reports of but two cases of fracture of the arm were forwarded. Both were instances of compound and comminuted fractures. CCOCXXIII.—Remarlcs on a Case of Compound Fracture of the Humerus. By J. P. Kimball, Assist- ant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Anthony Welsh, Company H, 13th Infantry, aged 27 years, was injured October 8, 1809, about eight miles from Fort Buford, Dakota Territory, by the passage of a heavy Army wagon over his left arm, producing a conipound fracture of the liumerus at its middle third. When first seen by the ])OSt surgeon, about an hour after the accident, the lower fragment was found protrud- ing through the skin covering the lower portion of the deltoid muscle, having apparently been thrust through after the fracture had taken place by the ill-directed efforts of the persons about liim. The arm was temporarily put up in splints made from a cracker-box, and the patient was taken to the post hospital at Fort Buford. The arm was severely bruised, greatly swollen, and the wound bleeding moderately. The next morning the patient was hot and feverish; pulse 105, full and strong; arm still greatly swollen and discolored. On October 12th, the patient was doing- well; the febrile excitement had greatly diminished; the swelling and pufi&ness of the arm were subsiding, and the woiand suppurating moderately. The patient continued to do well, and on November Oth the splints were removed; the wound had healed, and the union of the fracture was complete ; there was very slight false anchylosis of the elbow. On November 21, 1809, Welsh was returned to duty ; the anchylosis of the elbow was completely removed; there was no shortening of the arm. The next report is interesting as including an instance of rupture of the liver without breach of the integument. * A figure of "The Author's Apparatus" may be found at page 199 of the third edition of Dr. F. H. Hamilton's Pntctkal TrcaiiiiC on Fmciiiirs and Dislomlions, Pliiladclphia, 1866.