212 RErOKT OF SUKGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. Ou November 23, 18G8, at Pawling, Dutchess County, New York, the patient's home, Doctor William C. Bennett amputated the left thigh in the lower third by the tlap operation. Eight months after, he was furnished with an artificial limb by Monroe and Gardiner. At that date the stump was perfectly healed, but was one-third less than normal size. DCIII.—Note on an Amptitation of the Thigh. Private Eeese Furboy, late of Co. C, 98th Ohio Volunteers, underwent amputation of the left thigh in the upper third, by flap operation, for "sickness," at his home in Cadiz, Ohio, on October 9, 1SG7, by Surgeons Uptcgraph and Connelly. On April 28, 1870, ho was furnished an artilicial limb, by R. Clement, Philadelphia, which gave satisfaction. At £hat"date the stump was sound, but less than normal size. DCIV.—Account of a Secondary Amputation of the Thigh for Gunshot Injury. By S. M. HoETON, Assistant Surgeon, TJ. S. A. Alfred Ramey, a citizen, aged 20 years, was fired upon by Indians while sitting, in company with other citizens, by a tire, in a small camp near the stockade at Fort Philip Kearney, Dakota Territory, November 1, 180G, and had his right patella broken into five fragments. He was admitted into the post hospital ou the next day, where simple dressings were applied, and two- thirds of the patella were removed, as the fragments loosened by suppuration. By April, 18G7, the patient liad become greatly emaciated and debilitated from i)ain, exhaustive suppuration, hectic; fever and diarrluea; there was an ulcerated bed-sore over the sacrum three and a half inches in diameter; sinuses led from the surface into the knee-joint; and there were abscesses in the middle and lower htird of the thigh and the leg. The entire limb became erysipelatous, there was muscular anchylosis of the hip-joint, and on the least motion of the knee-joint caused excessive pain. The patient would not consent to an operation until April 25, 1867, when, despairing of his life, he allowed equal parts of ether and chloroform to be administered and tlie thigh to be amputated in its upper third, by short anterior and long posterior flap method. Light and perfectly dry dressings were afterward applied. The stump healed by first intention at every point, except in the angles of the flaps, in one of which were the ligatures. On the nineteenth day after operation the liga- tures came away, the stump was entirely healed, and the patient was able to leave his bed. An examination of the amputated limb showed extensive disorganization of the knee-joint and abscesses in the leg and thigh, which had dissected up the muscles from the bones and from each other throughout the limb. The lower portion of femur and upper half of tibia and fibula showed the entire surface denuded of periosteum, and eroded. There was bony anchylosis of the knee-joint. DCV.—Account of an Amputation of the Thigh for Disease of the Knee-Joint. By W. F. Smith, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Thomas Ryan, Troop A, 5th Cavalry, aged 24 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Raleigh, North Carolina, on May 26, 1866, with fibro-cellular disease of the lower extremity of the right femur, involving the knee-joint, attributed to a kick by a horse. On August 18,186G, the knee-joint was enormously enlarged, and the skin was tense and shining. In some spots, fluctuation was perceptible. An immense sac, of what proved to be disintegrated blood, extended as far as the middle of the thigh. The liatient was slightly worn from constant pain, but his general health was excellent. On this date, I chloroformed the patient, and amputated, by circular operation, at the junction of the u^iper thirds of the thigh. The case jirogressed uninterruptedly well for three weeks, when the patient was attacked by very severe bilious remittent fever, which terminated in death on September 17, 1866. No autopsy. DCVI.—Account of an Amputation of tlw Thigh for Chronic Inflammation of tlie Knee-Joint. By A. S. Ehle, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Jackson Washington, a freedman, aged 22 years, was admitted to the hospital at Little Rock, Arkansas, on January 5, 1867, with chronic inflammation of the right knee-joint. There was a