SUICIDAL GUNSHOT WOUNDS OP THE HEAD. 13 On page 16, the remaining gunshot scalp-wounds, seven in number, that have heen reported are noted. In battle such wounds are more frequent than fractures of the skull; but at close quarters, when direct aim is taken, the fractures are more frequent. Eleven cases of suicide by gunshot wounds of the head are reported. Seven of these unfortunates perished almost instantaneously. Two others lived from a half-hour to an hour ; a third survived six days ; and a fourth long enough for a cerebral abscess to form. In the four instances in which the fatal issue was delayed, the pistol was employed as the implement of self-destruction; in the other seven cases, the regulation rifled musket. XXVII. —Report of Two Cases of Suicide. By Carlos Carvallo, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. At Jefferson, Texas, December 31, 1869, Lieutenant E. P. Colby, 11th United States Infantry, aged 21, committed suicide. He used a small Derringer pistol. The ball entered the cranium about an inch above and behind the right ear, and lodged in the brain. A protuberance on the oppo- site side of the skull rendered it probable that the ball fractu.red the inner table of the left temporal bone, but did not penetrate it. Lieutenant Colby became instantaneously unconscious, and the wound proved fatal in about a half hour after its infliction. He was in articulo mortis when first seen by me, and expired about fifteen minutes thereafter. Private George Weiss, Co. H, 11th United States Infantry, aged 33 years, shot himself near Fort Jefferson, Texas, on May 28, 1870, with a rifle, from ear to ear. He was found in the woods half a mile from camp, with his brain scattered a distance of several yards from the body. All bones of the cranium and face, except the upper and lower maxillary, were fractured. (See Specimen 5922, Sect. I, A. M. M.) XXVIII. —Extract from a Report of a Death hy Suicide. By W. P. Browne, Acting Assistant Surgeon. At Petersburg, Yirginia, in November, 1868, Private George Kerne, Co. K, 21st United States Infantry, died on the morning of the 21th, by suicide. He fixed a gun-strap on his rifle, so that by i)utting his foot on the strap he could pull the trigger. He then inserted the muzzle of the gun into his mouth, and discharged the piece. His left jaw was broken, the occipital bone entirely carried away, and the cerebellum driven out. Death, so far as could be ascertained, was instantaneous. The man was probably laboring under temporary insanity. XXIX. —Report of a Case of Suicide by a Pistol-Ball through the Head. By Peter Moffatt, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private James L. Cummings, Co. F, 1st United States Cavalry, died on June 30, 1869, from the effects of a pistol shot, inflicted by himself, with the purpose of committing suicide. The weapon was discharged while the muzzle was inserted in the mouth. The bullet passed upward and forward, carrying away the left eye, upper part of the nose, and the anterior-inferior portion of the base of the skull, and emerged in the vicinity of the frontal sinuses. The anterior-inferior convolutions of the brain could be felt by the fingers introduced into the wound, completely denuded of all covering, to the extent of one inch and a half to two inches; but no laceration of its substance could be detected. Profuse htemorrhage ensued at the time of the occurrence. After the immediate eflects of the injury, the patient remained conscious the greater portion of the time, until within a few hours of death. Had it not been for the injury to the mouth, i)recludiug, almost entirely, the possibility of swallowing, the indications were that the patient might have lived for some time longer. There seemed very little immediate cerebral disturbance. Death occurred on the sixth day. Remorse, resulting from intemperance, was the alleged cause of this act of self- destruction.