75 GUNSHOT WOUiTDS OP THE LOWER EXTREMITIES. CCLY.—Memorandum of a Case of Gunshot Flesh- Wound of the Thigh. By B. E. Fk yer, Assistant SurgeoD, U. S. A. Private Andrew Warner, Co. E, 38t.li Infantry, on July 10, 1867, was accidentally wounded by a pistol ball in the right thigh. On the same day he was admitted into the post hospital at Fort Harker, Kansas, from the garrison. Simple dressings were applied to the wound. He was returned to duty on July 12, 1807. CCLVI.—Report of a Gunshot Flesh- Wound of the Thigh. By H. R. Tilton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Anthony Welber, Co. I, 3d Infantry, received an accidental gunshot wound of the right thigh on May 4, 1869. A rifle ball entered the front of the thigh at the middle third exter- nally to the femur, and lodged in the biceps muscle. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Lyon, Colorado Territory, on May 6, 1809. On May 8th, the ball was removed by a counter open- ing, and simple dressings were applied. On May 20, an abscess was opened, and a short time afterward a j)iece of cloth was removed from the wound. By June 15th, the wounds were entirely healed. He was returned to dut}^ July, 1869. CCLVII.—Report of Gunshot Flesh-Wound of the Thigh. By W. J. Wilson, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Sergeant John Mullins, Co. K, 4th Cavalry, aged 31 years, received a wound of the thigh from a pistol ball on February 16, 1870. He was admitted from his quarters into hospital on February 17th. Water dressings were used. He was returned to duty on March 14,1870. CCLVIII.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Thigh. By A. 0. Girard, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private James Smith, Co. F, 19th Infantry, aged 29 years, was wounded on February 8, 1870, while leaving a steamboat on his arrival at Baton Rouge, Louisiana. The shot was fired from above, and the weapon was said to be a pistol. The ball entered over the trochanter of the left thigh, took a direct downward course between the aponeurosis and skin, and made its exit ten inches lower. Some part of the underclothes, being carried into the canal, were extracted, and a free suppuration was established. The missile could not be found. During the inflammatory stage, cold applications, with solution of carbolic acid at 57°. After suppuration was established, poultices of linseed, with the same solution, and finally a carbolic cerate. Convalescence was slow. He was admitted to the post hospital at Baton Rouge on February 8, 1870, and was returned to duty on March 20,1870. CCLIX.—Account of a Gunshot Flesh-Wound of the Thigh. By F. G. H. Bradford, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Charles Osborn, Co. E, 1st California Veteran Volunteers, was wounded at Los Piuos, New Mexico, on June 21, 1866, by a j)istol-ball, which entered the left thigh two inches anterior, and a little below the great trochanter, and passed slightly inward, upward, and backward, between the tensor vagiufe femoris, and sartorius muscles. He was at once admitted to the post hospital. The track of the ball could not be traced with a probe beyond three inches. But little pain was experienced by the patient on examination of the limb. Water dressings were applied. Five days after, the ball was found lodged in the gluteal muscle, two inches to the left of the anus, being plainly felt through the skin, and was removed by an incision three-quarters of an inch long. The ball was considerably flattened, having struck ftie femur in its passage. On June 27th, the imtient was doiug well, and the wound healing kindly.