81 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITIES. there every facility in the way of hospital accoiriniodatioii was afforded by Dr. T. H. Turner, U. S. A. A few days afterward, decided symptoms of septictemia manifested themselves with the wounded, more especially with Major Forsyth. The symptoms were excessive irritability or nervousness, a hectic form of fever, diffuse abscesses, »&c., from which he became rapidly reduced in flesh and strength. An abscess under the scalp, anterior to the vertex, resulted in the death of a small portion of both tables of the skull, which was thrown off by exfoliation. Indications of necrosis of upper part of the lower half of tibia came on in November; but all interference was avoided until January 20, when loose bone being detected, fragments of the tibia, to the extent of nearly three inches, were removed. After this operation the patient improved rapidly, the wound filling up with new material of a cartilaginous nature. About the last of January he was lifted from his bed for the first time in four months, and had his first airing in a Tompkins's wheel-litter. A few days afterward he used crutches, and got about feebly. This case was treated by first placing the leg in a common fracture box; then in a suspension splint of leather and telegraph wire; next in a double inclined lilane, made light, and suspended; lastly, in a "Smith's anterior," modified.- Quinine and tincture of iron were administered in small doses for some three months, and decided benefit was derived from fifteen-grain doses of hyposulphite of soda. On February 18th he was transferred to Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, 415 miles by rail, where he yet more rapidly gained in flesh and strength, his wounds filling up and the leg acquiring some solidity. On April Sth, he reached Chicago, entering there upon his duty as military secretary to General Sheridan. Assistant Surgeon J. A. Fitzgerald, U. S. A., who furnished most of the above particulars, stated, under date of August 25, 1809, that it was not until about May 10, 1809, that he first became con- vinced of a real bony union. In the latter part of April he applied a new splint in the form of long upholsterers' needles, ajiplied as follows: First. Applied two roller bandages from toes to knee, then introduced the long needle interruptedly by catches one or two inches ajjart, putting alternate needles in the intervals of preceding catches. In this manner were applied three externally and two internally to the leg, over which another roller was closely applied, and lastly a firm elastic stocking. When this was applied there was no discharge whatever, and with it he could get about on crutches with facility. When he left him on May 13, 1809, he walked about five squares twice daily, and to his office in a third story. He could bear considerable weight on the leg without pain at that time. Dr. Fitzgerald also states that he heard from his patient about four weeks previously, and that he expected to be walking by September 1, 1809.* COLXXX.—Mention of a Case in whicJi there ivas Removal of a Portion of the Fibula after a Gunshot Injury. By H. R. Tilton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Thomas Kelly, Co. B, Sth Cavalry, aged 22 years, received an accidental gunshot wound of the left leg, on November 15, 1808. The ball entered the inner side of leg, two and a half inches below the tibia, and passed out at the middle third of the leg, externally, fracturing the fibula. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Lyon, Colorado Territory, on April 30, 1809. The patient states that a portion of the fibula was removed by Assistant Surgeon Turner, U. S. A. The wound was nearly healed. The patient was in hospital only two days when the 5th Cavalry left the post. [He was returned to duty on May 2, 1809.—Ed.] CCLXXXI.—Mention of a Gunshot Wound of the Leg. By B. E. Fryer, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Peter Eustace, Co. H, 5th Infantry, aged 26 years, was accidentally wounded on Feb- ruary 23, 1868, by a small conoidal ball, which fractured the right tibia and fibula at the lower third. He was admitted from Fort Hayes, on April 28, 1868, to the post hospital at Fort Harker, Kansas. The wounds had healed, and the bones had united prior to admission. Some little lame- ness still exists. There is no shortening or other deformity. He was returned to duty in May, 1808. * In May, 1871, Mnjor G. A. Forsyth met Assistant Surgeon General Crane, and boasted of the peifection of his cure, speaking in enthusiastic terms of army surgery, and the skill of his attendants, complimenting particularly Dra. Fitzgerald and Ascb, ■\vitli endless grateful expressions toward the former, who had charge of the case at first. There Avas no apparent shortening of the limb.—Ed, 11