INCISED AND PUNCTUKED WOUNDS. 99 CQGXXYL—Mention of an Incised Wound of the Foot. By A. L. Buffington, M. D., Actiug Assistant Surgeon. Private Fontanice Singleton, Co. D, 20tli Infantry, aged 20 years, was admitted to the post liospital at Jefferson, Texas, on December 3, 18G7, with an incised wound upon the dorsal surface of tlie left foot, inflicted witli an axe. The parts were retained in apposition by adhesive plaster. He was returned to duty December 11, 1867. PuNCTUEED Wounds.—A few of the reports of the more important punctured wounds may be cited. The most interesting injuries of this class were those inflicted by arrows. These will be considered in a separate section. CCCXXVII.—Mention of a Bayonet Wound of the Scalp. By E. Alexander, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Corporal Alexander Kay, Co. D, 39th Infantry, aged 28 years, was wounded October 7, 1868, by a bayonet, wliicb entered tbe scalp between tlie sagittal suture and the left parietal protuber- ance, making a wound about two inches long. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort St. Philip, Louisiana, on the same day. Haimorrhage occurred to the amount of fifteen or twenty ounces. The wound was carefully explored, but no injury of bone could be detected. The treat- ment consisted in cold applications to the head and a brisk cathartic. Ho compresses of any kind were used for several days, but the pus that formed was frequently pressed out. After this a few- adhesive straps were applied twice daily, and the wound healed kindly. On November 3, 1868, the l)atieut was returned to duty. CCCXXVIII.—Mention of a Sword Wound of the Eye. By EiOHARD Powell, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. At Camp Warner, Oregon, December 25,1867, Private John Waltsh, Co. D, 23d Infantry, aged 36 years, received in a brawl a punctured wound of the right eye from a sword, which penetrated the cornea and iris. He was admitted to post hospital December 27, 1867. Cold-water dressings were api^lied to the eye, cantharides j)laster was placed behind the right ear, and saline cathartics were administered. He returned to duty April 12,1868. CCCXXIX.—Note Relative to a Bayonet Wound of the Loicer Jaw. By C. E. Goddaed, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John Fry, Co. E, 16th Infantry, aged 21 years, received a bayonet wound at the hands of the sergeant of the police guard, while resisting arrest, November 23, 1866. The bayonet thrust fractured the lower jaw. The wounded man was admitted to the post hospital at Chatta- nooga, on the next day, and the fracture was coaptated, and retained in position by splints of binder's boards. [The man was returned to duty in December, 1866.—Ed.] CCCXXX.—Mention of a Bayonet Wound of tlie Thorax. By John B. White, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. In the case of Private Hilary Herbert, I woidd state that at the post-mortem examination, fourteen hours after death, the autopsy being limited to the cavity of the thorax, there was nothing of additional interest elicited, other than the facts communicated in my report of April 5, 1868, in which I stated " that he received a stab by a bayonet upon the inner or thoracic side of the left