GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. LXXV. Memorandtim of a Case of Penetrating Gunshot Wound of the Chest. By Williajvi S. Adaius, Actiug Assistant Surgeon. Corporal William McLaughlin, Co. I, 5tli United States Cavalry, aged 23 years, was wounded on September 10, 1867, in a drunken atfray, by a conoidal ball, which entered at the junction of the middle and outer thirds of the left clavicle, passed inward, striking its inferiDr border, and being deflected downward into the cavity of the chest. He was taken to the post hospital at Morgan- town, North Carolina, where death resulted one hour after the reception of the injury. liXXNl.—Memorandum of a Gunshot Perforation of the Chest. By Jules Le Carpentier, Acting Assistant Surgeon. * * At Fort Bayard, New Mexico, Private George Stern, Co. A, 38th United States Infantry, aged 25 years, was killed by around ball, in a riot, which occurred at Central City, nearby, on the evening of December 24, 1868. The missile entered the left axilla, and passed out on the right side of the neck. LXXVII.—Memorandum of a Fatal Gunshot Wound of the Lung. By J. E. Gibson, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Michael Luther, Co. C, Engineer Battalion, aged 26 years, was wounded while tres- passing upon private grounds, in the village of Whitestone, Long Island, on February 3, 1867, by a charge of bird-shot, which penetrated the right lung. He was admitted on the following day to the post hospital at Willet's Point, and treated on the expectant plan. He died on February 6, 1867. LXXVIII.—Note of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Lung. By Brevet Major W. M. Notson, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A, Private William Leach, Co. H, 4th United States Cavalr^y, aged 20 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Concho, Texas, on February 4,1868, with an accidental gunshot wound. The missile perforated the lobes of the left lung. He died on February 6, 1868, from internal hsemor- rhage. LXXIX.—Note of a Fatal Gunshot Perforation of the Eigh t Lxmg. By Donald Jackson, Acting- Assistant Surgeon. Private Narcisse Pochet, Co. G, 9th United States Cavalry, aged 24 years, received on March 21, 1870, in a brawl, a wound through the right lung by a carbine-ball, which entered below the clavicle through the second rib, and emerged two inches from the median line. Admitted to ijost hospital at Fort Clark, Texas, at 5 P. M. He survived two hours. LXXX.—Memorandum of a Gunshot Perforation of the Chest. By D. Weisel, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. • At Fort Davis, Texas, Private David Boyd, Co. K, 9th United States Cavalry, was accidentally shot and instantly killed by a conoidal ball, on March 16, 1870. The missile entered to the left of the sternum between the fourth and lifth ribs, and, passing through the body, issued near the inferior angle of the right scapula. LXXXI.—Report of a Case of a Pistol Shot Wound of the Lung Through the Scapula. By Samuel Santoine, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Charles Lehmann, Co. B, 35th United States Infantry, aged 21 years, was shot in the street on the night of January 2,1868. A pistol-ball entered immediately below the spine of the scapula, one inch from its outer end obliquely toward thesteruum, andremainediu the thoracic cavity.