37 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. CXI. Extract from Bemarlcs on Monthly Report of Side and Wounded, from Fort Dodije, Kansas. By W, S. Teemaine, Assistant Surgeou, U, S. A. Private Thomas K , Co. A, 3d United States Infantry, deserted from Fort Dodge, Kansas. When twenty-five miles from the post he met a train Avith citizens, who attempted to capture him. To prevent this he shot himself with a revolver. Was brought into hospital August 6, 1870. The ball entered between the fifth and sixth ribs, one and a half inches below, and a little to the right of the left nipple, and was extracted, together with small fragments of bone, fi'om the sub-cuta- neous tissue over the ninth dorsal vertebra, through a small incision. The patient was paralyzed below the middle. He died four days after admission. A post-mortem examination was made after ten honrs. The track of the ball was found to pass from a point between the fifth and sixth ribs, an inch and a half below and to the right side of the left nipple, grazing the apex of the heart, passing through the lung, and fracturing the transverse process of the ninth dorsal vertebra. There was pericarditis and pneumonitis. There were decolorized fibrinous clots in the heart and great vessels; extensive effusion in cavity of pleura. The missile was a conical pistol-ball of the calibre .44. Fig. 8.—Eightli, uiiitli, tuiitli, and a portion of the eleventh dorsal vertebra;, with a ball and fraftments of bone from the ninth vertebra. Spec. 5738, Sect. I, A. M. M. CXII.—Note of a Case of Perforating Wound of the Left Lung. By J. H. Patzki, Assistant Sur- geon, U. S. A. Private Michael W. Keiley, Co. D, 6th United States Cavalry, aged 22 years, was, on June 19, 1870, wounded and killed by a couoidal bvdlet, which i)enetrated the left arm, sixth rib, and i)erforated the left lung and spine between the sixth and seventh dorsal vertebrae. He was brought into hospital dead June 19, 1870. CXIII.—Memoranda of a Case of Gunshot Penetrating Wound of the Lung. By E. H. White, Assist- ant Surgeou, U. S. A. Private Edward Adams, Co. F, 15th United States Infantry, aged 25 years, received a gunshot wound while resisting the guard sent to arrest him, on May 9, 1868. The missile entered the middle of the left arm, producing a compound comminuted fracture of the humerus, and entering the chest between the fifth and sixth ribs posteriorly, traversing the inferior lobe of the left lung, and the spinal column between the sixth and seventh dorsal vertebraj, breaking up the spinal cord, and passing through the inferior lobe of the right lung, lodged itself just beneath the integument of that side. He was admitted to the post hospital at Mobile, on May 9,1868, and death resulted on the same day. CXIV.—Note of a Case of Perforating Gunshot Wound of the Thorax. By Alfred Delany, Assist- ant Surgeon, U. S. A. Near Fort Gibson, Indian Territory, Private David McWilliams, Co. H, 6th United States Infantry, was shot by a drunken Cherokee Indian, without any apparent provocation, on the evening of the 11th September, 1869. He was admitted to the hospital soon after, in a profound shock, and died twenty hours afterward, only i)artial reaction having occurred, notwithstanding the free use of stimuli, warmth, &c. On making a critical examination, jjosf-'/rtortem, the ball, supposed to have been from a Navy revolver, was found to have entered the body posteriorly, opposite the sixth dorsal vertebra, passed upward, and to the right, and emerged anteriorly, between the first and second ribs, one and a half inches to the right of the sternum, fracturing the right lamella and the body of the sixth vertebra, the sixth rib, opening the medullary canal, lacerating the cord, and per- forating the right lung. Fragments of the vertebra and rib were driven before the ball, and lodged in the lung and pectoral muscles.