REPOllT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 202 Fred. Steele, "Wyoming Territory. The fibula was found to be fractured. Conservative treatment was adopted, bat no attempt at reunion followed; the tibia, fibula, and astragalus became necrosed and the ankle joint ancbylosed, until the dorsum of the foot was on a line with the front of the leg. The patient became exhausted by long-continued suppuration, and in January, 1871, amputation became necessary. Tlie operation was performed on January- 5, 1871, by removing the leg at the middle third, and taking a single flap from the muscles of the calf. Lotions of carbolic acid were applied. The flap healed by first intention, and on April 14th the patient was strong and healthy and had a good stumii. He was discharged June 9, 1871. DLXXVIII.—Note on an Amputation of the Leg for Gunshot Injury. By Ira Perry, Assistant Surgeon, 9th U. S. C. T. Private William White, Co. C, 114th Colored Infantry, aged 23 years, was accidentally wounded in camp by a conoidal ball, which entered and fractured the tibia just below the inner tuberosity, and, breaking the fibula, made its exit on the outside of the leg, tearing the muscles and Integuments two by four inches. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Brown, Texas, on the 20th of February, 1860. The patient was weak from the loss of blood. I amputated just below the attachment of the ligamentum patellte, by the flap method. The case progressed admirably, the stump healing in good shape. Discharged April 2, 1807. The man is a pensioner at $15 jier month. DLXXIX.—Note on an Amputation of the Leg for Gunshot Injury. By P. C. Davis, Surgeon U. S. A. Private Thomas Wilkinson, Battery C, 3d Artillery, aged 22 years, was admitted to the post hospital. Fort McPherson, Nebraska, July 15, 1807, with a gunshot wound of the left ankle, involving the joint. A musket ball had entered the joint near the external malleolus, and, passing upward, escaped above the internal malleolus. The wound was much swelled, and very painful. The patient suffered from loss of blood and traumatic irritation. On July 19, 1807, I administered ether, and amputated the left leg at the lower third by the flap method. The hasmorrhage was slight, and the patient reacted i^romptly. The case progressed favorably, no treatment being required but an opiate at night. He was discharged from service September 28, 1807. The stump was completely healed. The man has made application for i^ensiou, but the case is still pending. DLXXX—Memorandum relative to an Amputation of the Leg on Account of Compound Dislocation of the Lower End of the Tibia. By Iea Perry, Assistant Surgeon, 9th U. S. C. T. William Wilson, a citizen, aged 30 years, received. May 4, 1800, by the upsetting of a stage- coach, a compound complicated dislocation of the lower end of the left tibia, inward. The internal lateral ligament was ruptured, and the ankle-joint opened; the external malleolus was fractured, and the internal malleolus broken square oft", with the end oft' the tibia. He was sent to the post hospital at Fort Brown, Texas, where the leg and foot were placed in a fracture-box. The patient at first objected to amputation. On the sixth day after the injury, tetanus apj)eared. On the seventh day, by the advice of the surgeon in charge of the hospital, and of the commanding medical officer of the district of the Rio Grande, I amputated the leg at the upper third. The operation did not appear to benefit. Slight spasms^ of limbs and some opisthotonus followed ; his jaws remained rigid, and deglutition was difficult. Warm poultice to the stump, and hot fomentations to the neck and ears, were applied. Chloroform was the only remedy that had the least effect in relieving spasm. He died the next day, May 12, 1806. DLXXXI.—Note on an Amputation of the Leg for Railway Injury. By J. LuNNEY, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Arthur, a freedman, aged 21 years, September 5, 1800, in attempting to get on a freight train while it was in motion, fell and received a compound comminuted fracture of the right leg, a