258 EEPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. ation urine was twice passed through the urethra; then followed an interval of five days, during which it was passed through the wound. After this it passed almost continuously by the urethra, and the patient was able to be up and about on the twenty-fifth day. Several times after this, how- ever, there occurred, at distinct intervals of from two to three weeks, a slight watery or sanguineous discharge from the wound, generally accompanied by more or less gastric disturbance and slight feV'Cr, the correction of which, with abso- lute rest, usually caused this discharge to disappear. After about six months, everything of this character ceased. Two years subsequently the patient repoi'ted himself as enjoying excellent health, never having since experienced the slightest inconvenience. His phys- ical appearance had greatly improved. ■piG. 57.—Vesical calculus. Section tlirougli the long tliameter. Spec. 5572, Sect. I, A. M. M.' He had increased in strength and en- —I'liLsplialic iii inai vi ak'ulus. 3. Sect. 1, A. M. il. ergy, and weighed one hundred and nineteen pounds. The specimen was contributed to the Army JMedical Museum, and is figured in the adjacent woodcuts, (Figs. 57, 58). It weighs two ounces and twenty-seven grains, troy; weigiied three and one-eighth ounces. but before it was sawn, it DCCI.—Minute of a Successful Case of Lithotomy. By W. F. Smith, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Henry Morris, a mulatto, aged twenty-three years, had a large vesical calculus removed by litliotomy at Raleigh, Nortli Carolina, about the middle of December, 18(17. The operation was delayed for some time, owing to the iini)<»ssil)iHty of passing a stiiff into the urethra, which contracted violently at eveiy attempt to introduce one. Atter this excitability had been overcome l>y a couise of training, which rendered the j);i.s.sjige of any instrument easy, the patient was chloroformed, and the stone was removed by the lateral oi)eration, both lobes of the prostate gland being divided in consequence of its great size. It was partly attached to the bladder, and this caused some trouble. The hfemorrhage, did not exceed six ounces. The wound granulated finely, and by January 23, 1SG8, the patient was entirely well and attending to his ordinary avocation. The stone, weighing two hundred and fifty-three grains, is represented in the adjoining wood-cuts, (Figs. 59, GO,) and was contributed by the operator. Fig. U;-.— \ I Mi alcaloiihis. ex- erior Tiew. Spec. 47C2, Sect I, A. M. M. Fig. CO.—Scctioual view of the calculus. DCCII.— O^ins hot Wo^md of Bladder and Sectum, and snhseqnent Oiicration for Stone in the Bladder By Dr. Hunter McGuirb.* Mr. H., aged 23 years, was wounded at the battle of McDowell, May 8, 1862. The ball struck him on the horizontal ramus of the left pubic bone, about an inch from the symphysis, passed through the bladder and rectum, and came out just below the right sacro-sciatic notch, near the edge of the sacrum. Tlie day after the battle he was sent to the general hospital at Staunton, where he remained under treatment for four mouths. For the first month urine passed freely through the wounds, made by the entrance and exit of the ball, and was generally mixed with blood and pus. Ftecal matter was frequently discharged through the ijosterior wound. Some time during the third week he passed several small pieces of bone from the rectum. At the end of the fifth week the wound of exit bealed, and for the first time since his injury urine was discharged through * See Richmond Medical Jotmial, Aiiril, 1868, vol. V, p. 279.