SIMPLE AND COMPOUND FEAOTUKES. 127 At tliis stage of the post-mortem examination I was called to attend a case of labor, wbicli detained me until the forenoon of the next day, by which time decomposition had set in to such an extent as to render a further examination of the lesions of the brain nugatory. The specimen is No. 5919, Army Medical Museum. CCCOV.—Bemarlcs on a Fracture of the Skull from Railway Injury. By De Witt C. Peters, Assistant Surgeon, TJ. S. A. The body of an unknown man, aged about 40 years, was brought to the Jarvis Hospital, Balti- more, Maryland, on July 7, 1865, for burial. He had been killed by falling from a railroad car while in motion. The body was much bruised in different places. There was a large and deep wound on the right side of the head above the external auditory meatus, from which blood was escaping. The head, ears, and face were much bruised. Upon removing the calvaria, both tables of the skull were found fractured and driven in upon the brain, compressing it at that point. The fracture com- menced on the right side in front of the petrous portion of the temporal bone; the lesser wings of the sphenoid bone and a portion of the orbital plate of the frontal bone were separated from the frontal bone on the right side and extended across to a similar point on the left side. Clots of blood were found effiised at the seat of fracture and all through different portions of the brain, and effused blood was found in all the ventricles. The skull was forwarded to the Army Medical Museum, and is represented in the ad- ^•''■''i'' sutures of the base aud right side. Spec. ^, ^ ' 3019. Sect. I, A. M. M. joining wood-cut. OCCCVI.—Bemarlcs on a Case of Fracture of the Shull. By Charles S. Merrill, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. At Corinth, Mississippi, on the afternoon of April 9, 1868, Private Edmund H. Wells, Co. K, 34th Infantry, was fatally injured while assisting in loading post-logs upon a wagon, his head being caught laterally between a log already loaded and another which was being thrown upon the wagon. As soon as his head was released he fell unconscious, bleeding from both ears, nose, and mouth. He was brought to hospital with all the symptoms of severe concussion of brain, rapidly followed by those of compression. Hjemorrhage continu.ed from ears, nose, and mouth; deep coma, stertorous respiration, and dilated pupils rapidly followed, and continued until April 11,1868, when death resulted, evidently from compression of the brain, dependent upon extravasation of blood, fracture of base of skull being diagnosticated. CCCCVII.—RemarTcs on a Case of Fracture of the Slcull. By J. H. Bartholf, Assistant Surgeon, U. S.A. Private Charles Williams, Co. F, 5th Cavalry, aged 40 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Camp Grant, near Richmond, Virginia, September 28, 1867, with a coini)ound fi'acture of the outer table of the skull, inflicted by a blow with the barrel of a jjistol in the hands of a drunken sergeant. The flesh-wound was two inches in length over the left parietal region, and the outer table very slightly depressed; the patient had no cerebral symptoms; cold-water dressings were applied, and quiet enjoined. On October 3d, the wound, which had united by soft adhesions, reopened. Simple cerate dressings were ordered. The next day the patient had severe headache at the back of his head and over his left eye ; his bowels were regular; the wound gaped open to the skull, discharging a small amount of healthy-looking pus. On October 9th the wound was granulating finely, and discharging but little pus. The patient continued to improve, and was returned to duty November 10, 1867. The wound had entirely healed, but the patient suffered from occasional headache.