SIMPLE AND COMPOUND FKACTURES. 123 COOXCVIII.—Mention of a Case of Compound Fracture of the Skull. By J. V. D. Middleton, Assistant Surgeon, TJ. S. A. Private William Manalian, Co. M, 3cl Cavalry, aged 23 years, received near Prescott, Arizona Territory, May 14, 1870, a compound fracture of tlie skull, caused by a stone thrown by a com- rade. He was admitted to the post hospital at Port Whipple. The external wound was about two inches in length, and was located immediately over the left frontal eminence. The outer table of the skull was fractured; three days after admission the patient was taken with chills, and suf- fered for a week with cold sweats, dizziness, headache, and slight fever, with intervals of delirium. June 26th chloroform was administered, and an incision about one and a half inches in length was made over the seat of the fracture, and a piece of the outer table, over one inch in diameter, was removed. On June 30th the patient was still under treatment. CCCXCIX.—BemarTcs on a Case of Contusion with Injury to the Skull and Brain. By S. M. HoRTON, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Charles Miller, musician, 27th Infantry, was reported on sick report of Omaha Bar- racks, Nebraska, March 11, 1869, as suffering from contusion around both eyes, with partial detachment of the cartilage of the septum, producing flatteniug of the nose—the result of a blow with the fist. It was reported that a good deal of epistaxis occurred immediately on receiving the injury. By the 17th of March he suffered from headache; bowels were constipated, and the appearance of debility manifested itself. Active treatment was resorted to, and the condition of the patient varied until death, which occurred, apparently suddenly, on the night of the 1st of April, 1869. A post-mortem examination, held the same afternoon, revealed, upon removing the skull-cap, a small quantity of pus in the foramen caicum and in the grooves for the bulbs of the olfactory nerves. The crista galli of the ethmoid was found to be broken off at its base, with its upper edge or point toward the left side, and was very easily lifted up by the forceps. Some purulent matter was found in the meshes of the pia mater and between it and the arachnoid mem- brane, on three-fourths of the entire under surface of the brain. About one-sixteenth inch to the. left of the longitudinal fissure, at anterior end of cor^ms callosum, a longitudinal slit, three-eighths of an inch long, with dark edges, was found in all the three membranes. On detaching the mem- branes at this point, a sinus was found leading to an abscess in the left anterior lobe, which, when examined, proved to be as large as a hen's egg. It was filled with pus, broken down brain-matter, and, on the outer wall, dark grumous matter. On exploring this abscess, a communication was found between it and the anterior coruu of the left ventricle. On further dissection, I found the left ventricle and the right ventricle, and the third ventricle, through foramen of Monroe, and fourth ventricle through aqueduct of Sylvius, all distended with pus and broken-up cerebral matter with some serum. The lining membrane of the fourth ventricle was of a dusky red color. On pressing up through the nostrils, nearly half an ounce of pus exuded from that part of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone from which the crista was broken off, and flowed down over the inner portion of the base of the skull. CCCC.—Bemarlcs on a Case of Fracture of the Skull and of the Bibs. By A. W. Wiggin, Assist- ant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Samuel D, Bobbins, Co. I, 23d Infantry, aged 22 years, was admitted to hospital at Camp Warner, Oregon, on January 10, 1870, at 4 o'clock P. M., suffering from injuries about the head and right side. He stated that while driving a six-mule team, loaded with wood, down a steep declivity, his saddle-mule stumbled and threw him over the pole. One of the mules stepped on his head or kicked him, and two wheels of the wagon passed over his body. An examination revealed a fracture of the ninth and tenth ribs of the right side, about three inches from the ver- tebral column, with severe contusion of right side, as well as minor contusions about the back and shoulders. Bloody serum was issuing from the right ear and blood from the left ear, as well as from the rnouth and nose. The fiice was much bruised and abraded, and the left eye closed by a flesh-wound, the pupil of the right eye being much dilated and irresponsive to light. The patient was suffering severely from shock, and complaining of sensations of cold; pulse 50, and breathing