EEPORT OF SURGICAL OASES IN THE AEMY. 140 atlas npon tlie axis, were sucli as to prove that tliese articulations were not involved. Eespiratiou indicated tliat the lesion, whatever its nature, was below the origin of the phrenic nerve, while the total paralysis of the upper extremities could not be explained u])on any other theory than that of injury higher than the origin of the brachial plexus. It was further agreed that we were not likely to benefit the patient by atteinijting to rectify a distortion concerning the nature of which we were ignorant. From this time forth he was accordingly undisturbed. My function consisted in direct- ing such small attentions as were i^ossible in the case, and in watching the process of dying. He lay perfectly supine, breathing by the diaphragm, suffered no pain, and was able to swallow small quantities of fluids. His pulse, which immediately after the accident had been 78, in two hours had fallen to 72. Eespiratiou 20 per minute. In the evening about three ounces of turbid urine was drawn off by the catheter. He sank gradually, dying at G A. M. on February 12, forty-four hours after the reception of tlie injury. An autopsy was made five hours after death ; the rigor mortis- was imperfectly established; suggillation general over posterior portions of body; ulceration had already commenced over sacrum. The lower and back part of the neck exhibited slight tumefac- tion, yet sufficient to obliterate the depression which had been felt during life. The whole of the cervical portion of the spinal column was exposed by dissection, revealing a dislocation backward of the fifth vertebra. Both the superior articulating processes of this bone looked directly back- ward, and its bifid spinous process was astride of, and locked fast upon, the neck of the spinous process of the sixth cervical vertebra. So perfect was this impaction or locking that the spinous processes of the fifth and sixth vertebrte could only be felt as one until after all the soft tissues covering them had been dissected away. The luxation was " symmetrical" in respect to lateral displacement. Of course there was a wide interv^al, one and a half inches, between the spines of the fourth and fifth vertebrae, which interval contributed the depression felt upon the first examina- tion of the patient. There was no fracture of the body, pedicles or laminae of the displaced bone, but on the right side a poi'tion of the anterior tubercle of the transverse process had snapped off. The tip of the left division, of the spinous process of the third cervical verteb'ra was separated, Xjossibly in the dissection. The subflavian and capsular ligaments between the fourth and fifth vertebrae had given way, as had also the attachment of the ligamentum nuchae to these bones. The anterior and posterior common ligaments were not ruptured. There was a slight extravasa- tion of blood external to the sheath of the spinal marrow and a considerable quantity between the sheath and the cord. The upper and posterior edge of the fifth cervical vertebra encroached to such an extent upon the spinal canal, that the cord at this point was bent at an abrupt angle, and its antero posterior diameter reduced more than half. The meninges of the cord were not toin nor was the cord itself lacerated, which may perhaps be accounted for by the fact that the wide sepa- ration of the bones allowed it to bulge out posteriorly and thus escape fracture. The lungs Avere generally congested, the left more than the right. The posterior portions were especially engorged; crepitation was nowhere entirely absent. The heart was slightly hypertrophied and all of its cavities enq)ty. The cervical portion of the spinal column was removed entire; the luxation unre- duced. Indeed, I failed in my attempt to reduce it, and that after the bones were removed from the body and were held together by nothing save their ligamentous attachments and the interlocking mentioned before. The specimen, a ligamentous prej^aration of the first six cervical vertebrae, was forwarded to the Army Medical Museum and is represented in the wood-cut.* Dislocation of the Clavicle.—One instance of this rare accident is repSrted: COCCXLIV.—Remarlcs relative to a Subluxation of tlie Sternal Extremity of tlie Clavicle. By G. McC. Miller, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Sergeant William Dow, Co. D, 5th Infantry, was thrown from a mule, while hunting antelope, near Fort Eeynolds, Colorado Territory, on Januaiy 3, 1869, striking the ground with the point of his right shoulder. On his return to the fort I examined the injury, and found a sublux- * Dr.^Gray has already published this abstract iu th« American Journal of the Medical Sciences, Vol. LI, p. 10L».