86 EEPORT OP SUEGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. CCXCVII.—Report of a Gunshot Wound of the Femoral Vein. By F. M. Holly, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private John Eberharcit, Co. A, ITtli Infantry, aged 21 years, was shot, on October 29, 1868, at Belton, Texas, wliile an attempt was being made by a party of eight men to arrest a desperado. A ball from a Colt's Navy revolver entered the right thigh three inches below Poupart's ligament, internal to sartorius muscle, passed backward and slightly upward, nearly severing the femoral vein, grazed the femur internally at the junction of the shaft and neck, passed through the gluteal muscles, and lodged under the cuticle opposite the great ischiatic notch. The patient, unaware of being wounded, continued walking or running until he fell faint from loss of blood. He was seen some fifteen or twenty minutes after the occurrence, when the ball was removed from its i^lace of lodgement, an efficient compress placed over the wound, and stimulants administered. Reaction never took place. The patient died in about two hours from htemorrhage. ANALYTICAL EEVIEW. The two hundred and ninety-seven preceding reports furnish more or less complete data respecting three hundred and eighty-seven patients with gunshot wounds. The results appear in the following statement: Tabular Statement of the Results of Three Hundred and Eighty-seven Cases of Gunshot Wounds. Natnre of injury. Fractures of the Skull. Scalp Wouuds Fractures of Bones of the Face Flesh-Wounds of the Face Wouuds of the Neck Woiinds of the Chest Wounds of the Chest and Abdomen Wounds of the Abdominal Cavity Flesh-Wounds of the Abdomen Wounds of the Pelvis Wounds of the Genito-Uriuary Organs Flesh-Wounds of the Trunk Fractures of the Upper Extremities Flesh-Wounds of the Upper Extremities . Fractures of the Lower Extremities Flesh-Wounds of the Lower Extremities. Totals. 38 9 13 7 16 75 9 37 5 8 4 7 45 34 26 54 387 6 28 6 5 1 3 7 36 31 18 43 214 C3 23 31 10 44 9 30 150 The mortality rate of the cranial fractures is very large, but the fatal cases were nearly all examples of perforations of the brain, at short range. The large proportion of cases of suicide is noticeable and lamentable. It is interesting to note that, except to remove detached spicula), operative interference was not attempted except in a single