SIMPLE AND COMPOUND FRACTURES. 121 CCCXCII.—Account of a Fatal Injury of the Read. By 11. M. Cronkhitb, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. First Sergeant Daniel Isaacs, Co. I, lOtli Inftintry, aged 27 years, received December 24,1869, a contusion, by a club or brick, over the os occipitis. He was admitted to tlie post hospital at Ringgold Barracks, Texas, on the 25th, in a comatose state, and died the same day. Post-mortem examination showed that death was caused by effusion of blood under the dura mater, covering all the posterior half of the left hemisphere of the cerebrum. COOXCIII.—Remarks on a Case of Fracture of the Base of the iSlcull. By B. F. Pope, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Thomas M. Johnson, Battery B, 3d xlrtillery, at Fort Adams, Rhode Island, was dis- covered, on November 18, 1807, in an insensible condition at the foot of a stairway leading from the outer iiarapet of the fort into the main ditch. When last seen on the previous evening, he was hurrying through the darkness toward the fort to attend tattoo roll-call. In his haste he undoubtedly mistook his way, and walked off the parapet, falling a distance of some twenty feet. When conveyed to the hospital, he was nearly frozen, having lain iu an unfrequented place some eleven hours, with the thermometer 19° above zero. He was in a profound coma; breathing irreg- ular and feeble; thoracic muscles at times convulsed; diaphragm and abdominal muscles appar- ently paralyzed ; pulse 76, feeble and intermittent; blood trickling from the left ear and nose; the right pupil dilated more tiian the left. The only evidence of contusiou that could be discov- ered on the head was a slight abrasion of the skin covering the frontal region. Fracture at the base of the skull, and probable compression at the origin of the pneumogastric nerve was suspected. The iiatient was immediately iilaced iu bed. The treatment consisted of warm appli- cations, while vigorous friction was employed to restore circulation in the extremities. A few drops of brandy were administered, but on account of almost coaiplete aphagia, and its embarass- ment to the respiratory efforts, the exhibition of stimulants was discontinued. Enemata of brandy, carbonate of ammonia, and milk were ecpially ineffectual. They could not be retained on account of the comj)lete paralysis of the sphincter ani. In about an hour reaction commenced, the pulse increasing in frequency and volume, but lost nothing of its intermitting character. As reaction continued, the respiration became far more labored, and the face a little darkened. His head was raised to relieve the pressure of blood. The symptoms continued to improve until 1.15 P. M., when he died without convulsion, having survived the injurj' probably about fifteen hours. An autopsy being held twenty hours after death revealed rigor mortis well marked. The left hip and the fron- tal region were contused. There was no discoloration about the eyes. Blood had trickled from the left ear during the night, and had formed somewhat of a clot upon the table. On removing the integuments and exposing the cranium, a double-fissured fracture, without depression, was dis- covered, which commenced near the left parietal eminence, and trav^ersed downward and forward through the squamous portion of the temporal bone, to the base of the skull. Tiie contents of the cranium were then exposed. The brain appeared congested, the great longitudinal sinus remark- ably so. The brain was removed, and at its base were discovered two ounces of clotted blood. The fissures were traced, one through the greater wing of the sphenoid bone to the foramen lacerum anterius. The other involved the petrous portion of the temporal bone to such an extent as to per- mit of hiemorrhage from the meatus auditorius externus, which was the earliest and most noticeable symptom in the case. The internal table was not splintered or depressed. The blood at the base of the brain, between the dura mater and the skull, accounted for the marked derangement of both the circulatory functions, and also for the sudden death of the patient. CCOXCIY.—Account of a Linear Fracture of the Slcull. By J. F. Hartigan, M. D., Hospital Steward, U. S. A. John, aged 32, was wounded in a melee at Washington, July 11, 1869, by being struck on the head with a cobble-stone. The patient lingered about twelve hours. An autopsy, six hours after death, revealed no evidence of any external violence, with the exception of a few slight 16