14 EEPOET OF SUEGIOAL OASES IN THE AEMY. XXX. —Memorandum of a Case of Suicide. By William A. Bradley, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. At Point San Jose, California, on September 23, 1868, Private Octavius E. Daniels com- mitted suicide, by placing the muzzle of his musket against his temple, just anterior to the ear, and pulled the trigger by means of a poker. The ball entered at the lower border of the right temporal bone, on the right side, and emerged on the left side, through the parietal bone, about one-half an inch posterior to the groove for the middle meningeal artery, and about one inch below the track of the longitudinal sinus. Death was almost instantaneous. No autopsy was made. XXXI. —Extract from a Bejm-t of a Case of Suicide by Shooting in the Head. By Egbert Burns, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. At Frankford Arsenal, Pennsylvania, November 27, 1809, * * "Mark E. Eichards died from suicide, by shooting in the head. * * He was about 27 years of age, and enlisted as a ijrivate at the Frankford Arsenal, on August 13, 1869. He came under my treatment for secondary syphilis, on the 31st of the same month, and was returned to duty on the 26th of September, cured of the warts, but with orders to continue treatment. He was employed in the office as commissary clerk, about the 12th of November; but, in consequence of intemperate habits, he was reproved once or moi-e. On the morning of November 27th, he again reported himself sick to his commanding officer, who sent him to quarters to await medical advice. About 9 o'clock A. M. a messenger came to me, stating that Eichards was shot. On arriving, I found him lying in the proof-house, in the rear of the barracks, upon his back, his head close by the sill of the building—his right arm flexed over the head, the left slightly out from his body ; the head in a pool of blood, cleft from the nasal bone to the occiput, and in numerous places the cranium was fractured in many fragments, particularly the occipital bone, which ajjpeared the point of exit of the ball, the muzzle of the gun being placed at the inner angle of the left eye. The brain had been blown out; the hemispheres being apart, one about three feet from the body, the other about afoot nearer to the body. The Springfield rifled musket was a short distance from him, with the butt toward his person. The coroner, his physician, and jury, came from Philadelphia about 4:^ o'clock P. M., and held an inquest, rendering a verdict of 'suicide by shooting.'" Witnesses testified that the man had threatened to commit the deed before, and had left a note declaring his intention, his real name, and the residence of his family. XXXII. —Report of a Gunshot Wound of the Brain. By Z. H. Potter, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. At Fort Eandall, Dakota Territory, on September 22,1867, about midnight, I was aroused by the announcement that Lieutenant Eobert A. G had shot himself. I was soon by his side. I found him lying on the floor, in a carotic state, with i^rofuse arterial haemorrhage from nares, mouth, ears, and wound. The pulse was sixty, and full; breathing, stertorous and labored, twelve per minute. The edges of the wound, which was circular, were blackened, and the skin somewhat dis- colored by the smoke and heat attending the discharge. The ball had entered at a point just anterior and superior to the tragus of the left ear; j)assed into the cranium, in a direction nearly perj)eu- dicular to the side of the head, but inclining a very little upward and backward; penetrated tlie cerebrum, for a distance of six inches, and evidently lodged against the internal inferior lateral portion of the right parietal bone. Prognosis, death; accordingly, no effort was made to extract the ball. Twenty minutes past twelve: Pulse full, and eighty; breathing sterto- rous and labored, twelve per minute. Fifty-five minutes past twelve: Pulse fluctuating, occasion- ally strong and full, then, fluttering and weak; breathing more labored and stertorous, nine per minute. Death occurred at 1 o'clock A. M. September 23, 1867, from the combined effect of shock, cerebral laceration, and hajmorrhage, either of which, would, of itself, have proved fatal.