EEPOET OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 238 lacerated was ligated above and below tlie seat of injury, aud water dressings were applied to the wound. Tlie patient returned to duty in July, 18GS. DCLIV.—Account of a Wound of the Arm necessitating Ligation of the Interosseous Artery. By G. M. Sternberg, Assistant Surgeon, TJ. S. A. ■ Private Wesley Jess, Troop M, 7tli Cavalry, received, on November 21, 1868, while on picket at Camp Supply, Indian Territory, a gun-sbot wound of middle of rigbt fore-arm. Tlie ball passed between the radius and ulna without fracturing either. He was admitted to post hospital on No- vember 23d, No hsBuiorrhage occurred until the fifth day after the reception of injury; afterward, hsemorrhage occurred about every twenty-four hours, generally at night, from a few ounces to a pint at a time. When the dressings were removed the hfBmorrhage would cease; an operation was con- sequently delayed from day to day, in the hope that it would become unnecessaiy. The arm began to swell, became painful, tense and glossy, and above the elbow to the shoulder swollen and oedematous. On December 5th a sharp pointed bistoury was introduced into the wound, and a deep incision about four inches long was made in the long axis of the limb. A large quantity of clotted blood was thrown out from between the muscles, which had been dissected up by it in every direc- tion ; the interosseous artery was severed at the point from which the blood escaped, and tied at both ends. The pain was immediately relieved, the swelling of the limb rapidly disappeared, and healthy granulation set in. On December 31st, the wound had nearly closed, and there had been no hsemorrhage since the operation. The patient was returned to duty in January, 1869. DCLY.—Wote on a Ligation of the Superjicialis Voice Artery. By H. S. Schell, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Corporal Cyrus Eeed, Co. E, 4th Infantry, aged 20 years, at Fort Laramie, Dakota Territory, September 20, 18G7, accidentally cut his left wrist, severing the superflcialis voIje artery. He was admitted to the post hospital, where both ends of the artery were tied, and three iron wire sutures were applied. On September 30th, the patient was doing well. He returned to duty in December, 1867. DCLYI.—Memorandum of a Casein which the Superficial Palmar Archxcas ligated. By Christian Eaushenberg, Acting Assistant Surgeon. John Stanridge, a private of Co. B, 16th Infantry, accidentally wounded himself with a shot-gun at Albany, Georgia, on February 14, 1868. The wound extended from the middle of the palm of left hand, seven inches above the wrist. The soft parts between the ulna and radius were lacerated aud destroyed, the wrist-joint was opened, the superficial palmar arch and branches of the ulnar and interosseous arteries were wounded, and several carpal bones were fractured. Considerable haemorrhage was arrested by ligation of the former and torsion of several branches of the latter arteries ; five pieces of carpal bones of different sizes were removed, and the edges of the wound about the wrist were brought as close together as liossible by a twisted suture. In consideration of the age and condition of the patient, the importance of the limb and its great capacity for recovery, and the fact that two large arteries of the fore-arm were not wounded, it was determined, after consultation with another physician, not to resort to primary amputation, but to make an effort to save the limb. Cold applications, opiates, and saline purgatives constituted the principal treatment from the 14th to the 19th of the month. By the latter date inflammation had reached a fearful degree. A large and deep incision was made, aud warm cataplasms were resorted to, when the hand, on the evening of that day, became cold and lifeless. The change in the condition during the night was very great. The next morning his pulse was soft and small, skin cool and jaundiced, aud the woixnded arm had become gangrenous. The state of the pulse precluding the idea of amputation, local and internal stimulants were promptly but unsuccessfully used, death occurring on the evening of the 20th.