GUNSHOT WOin^DS OF THE LOWEE EXTKEMITIES. 77 CCLXVI.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Flesh-Wound of the Thigh. By J. Eidgely, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Sergeant John Cappiugs, Co. H, 26th Infantry, aged 27 years, received a wound of the right hip, from a conoidal musket ball, on September 20, 1867. He was admitted from hospital at Waco, Texas, to hosi^ital at Austin, on March 20, 1868. He was returned to duty on May 1, 1868. CCLXVII.—Report of Two Cases of Gunshot Flesh Wounds of the Thigh. By Jules Le Oarpen- TIER, M. D.j Acting Assistant Surgeon. Case 1.—Private James Francis, Co. A, 38th Infantry, aged 23 years, while on a scout on Sep- tember 24, 1868, received a gunshot flesh-wound of the inner and upper portion of the left thigh by a round ball. He was admitted into the post hosijital at Fort Baj^ard, New Mexico, on October 9th. Simple dressings were applied to the wound. He was returned to duty on November 16, 1868. Case 2.—Private Logan Goodpastor, Co, A, 38th Infantry, aged 22 years, received a slight gunshot flesh-wound of the thigh from a pistol ball on December 24,1868, in a riot at Central City. He was admitted into the post hospital at Fort Bayard, New Mexico, on December 25th. Simple dressings were used. He was returned to duty in January, 1869. CCL:K.Y1U.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Flesh- Wound of the Thigh. By L. G. Holmes, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Lieutenant D. W. Walcott, 1st Cavalry, aged 34, was wounded by the accidental discharge of his pocket pistol while riding on horseback near Camp Logan, Oregon, August 16, 1868. The ball entered the thigh on the outside, one inch posterior to, and three inches below, the trochanter major, passed downward and inward and lodged in the belly of the adductor muscles. He was admitted on the same day to the post hospital at Camp Logan, where all foreign substances which could be detected were removed, and an anodyne administered. On the 18th, slight inflammation set in, which increased until the 23d, when some fluctuation was detected on the inside of the thigh. An incision was made over the point of fluctuation, and the ball was found and removed. On August 24th, the leg was greatly inflamed and i^ainful. The pulse was weak and the wound discharged considerable pus. Under the application of cold to the limb and stimulants internally, the ijatient commenced to improve, and on the 27th, the swelling had somewhat subsided. On September 23d the patient was dropped from the sick report, the wouud being completely healed. There was slight lameness from contracted tendons, which was, however, gradually lessening. CCLXIX.—Memorandum of a Case of Gunshot Flesh-Wound of the Thigh. By H. E. Tilton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Eobert Garnet, Co. K, 10th Cavalry, aged 18 years, received October 9, 1868, while on the march, a wound of the left thigh, by a conoidal ball from a pistol in the hands of a sergeant which entered two inches from the great trochanter. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Lyon, Colorado Territory, on November 11th, where the ball was extracted from the point of entrance. The patient was returned to duty February 7, 1869. CCLXX.—i\rofe of a Case of Gunshot Flesh-Wound of the Thigh. By John B. WhiTE, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Patrick Burke, Co. B, 17th Infantry, aged 21 years, was wounded at Ealeigh, North Carolina, in a street aflray between the police of the city and men of the above command, by a conoidal pistol ball, which entered and lodged in the thigh. He was admitted to the post hospital at Ealeigh, North Carolina, April 14, 1870. Simple dressings were applied. He was returned to duty on May 10, 1870.