134 KEPORT OF SUKCHCJAL CASES IN THE ARMY. COCCXXIV.—Account of a Fatal Itallway Injurij. By Elliott Coues, Assistant Sni-geon, U. S. A. Piiv^ite Robert Matenie, Co. H, Gtli Iirf'aiitry, was injured at Columbia, Soiitli Carolina, on December 30, 1867, by a railroad accident. The case terminated fatally iu about ten hours. The right humerus was fractured a little above the joint, and drawn through the skin. Internal inju- ries, however, were the immediate cause of death. On examination, the liver was found lacerated iu tliree directions, being completely ruptured into three pieces, which were only held together by the peritoneal investment. A great quantity of coagulated blood lay about the parts. The lungs were much contused, and many of their smaller vessels rui)tured. Singularly enough, no ribs were broken. Fracture of the Radius and Ulna.-—Apart from those cases of injuries of the fore-arm which demanded operations, details were given of but two fractures of the radius, and one of the ulna. CCCCXXV.—Note of a Fracture of the Radius. By J. H. Baetholf, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Edward Jamison, Co. A, 11th Infantry, aged 24 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Camp Grant, near Richmond, on December 19, 1867, with simple fracture of the left radius at the middle third, caused by falling down a stairway. Tlie fore-arm was placed in a supine position, and straight board splints, somewhat wider than the fore-arm, applied, and held in place by adhesive straps, isear the upper and lower extremities of the splints, the sides being left to give a view of the parts. The arm was then put iu a sling. On February lOth, the splints were removed. There was good union, and free motion without deformity. A slight callus marked the seat of the fracture. Patient was returned to duty on February 10, 1868. CCCCXXVI.—Note of a Fracture of the Radius. T. F. Azpell, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private W. Chapman, general service, was injured September 24,1868, by falling about seven feet from the seat of a wagon truck, which caused a simple fracture of the lower extremity of the left radius. He was admitted to the hospital at David's Island, on October 13th; the fractured extremities of the radius being approximated, and the hand kept between pronation and supina- tion, a wooden adaptable splint was placed upon the posterior aspect of the fore-arm ; a piece of binder's board of the proper size, well dampened and pliable, was iilaced upon the anterior portion, and both kept in position by a roller bandage, which was so adapted as to draw the extremity of the lingers downward, so as to produce extension. Patient recovered without any bad symptoms ; the motion of the fore-arm and wrist was perfect, without any deformitj". Returned to duty. CCCCXXVIL—i\^ofe of a Simple Fracture of the Ulna. By C. C. Gray, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private H. Hampton, Co. I, 31st Infantry, aged 19 years, presented himself at surgeon's call, at Fort Stevenson, Dakota, on February 10, 1808, with a transverse fracture in the middle of the right ulna, the result of a fall against a box, which lie had received a few moments before. Pistol- shaped splints, cut from a shingle and j)added, without an interosseous compress were applied. On March 7th, the splints were dispensed with, the limb being still retained in a sling; occasional passive and volnntary motion was prescribed. The patient recovered without any deformity of the limb whatever, and was returned to duty on March 21,1868.