GUNSHOT FRAOTUEES OF THE UPPEE EXTEEMITIES. 63 CCXII.—Report of a Fatal Case of Gunshot Wound of the Elhotc-Joint. By W. E. Eamsey, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private George Fray, Co. E, 36tli Infantry, aged 21 years, was wounded at Fort San- ders, Dakota Territory, February 22, 1868, by the accidental discharge of a musket in the hands of a comrade. The missile passed through the elbow-joint. He was admitted to the hos- pital in a very feeble condition; there was htemorrhage from the wound, which it was difflcult to control by digital compression, as the artery rolled under the finger on account of the size of the biceps. At 11 P. M. the hemorrhage ceased by coagulation, and the patient reacted gradually, but continued weak. He remained in the same condition until February 2oth, when he, for the flrst time, asked for something to eat. He seemed restless, and complained of being sick at the stomach and of pain in the arm. On the evening of February 24th, he had a chill and tympanites appeared shortly afterward. He died on February 25th. From the sudden change on the even- ing of the day previous to his death, and from the prevalence of intermittent fever at the time, the case was supjiosed to be one of congestive chill. There was no indication of pyajmia. GnnsJiot Wounds of the Fore-arm.—Twelve special reports relate to cases of this class. Two of these, resulting from the premature explosion of cannon, terminated fatally; three patients were discharged for disability, and seven returned to duty. CCXIII.—Mention of a Qunshot Fracture of the Radius and Vina. By O. Smith, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon, Corporal James Bohan, Co. H, 4th Cavalry, aged 27 years, was shot by a drunlien sol- dier, November 9, 1870. The ball struck the right fore-arm and fractured the radius completely and the ulna partially. He was admitted to the field hospital on the same day, when Acting- Assistant Surgeon Orsamus Smith removed all detached pieces of bone, and ai)plied splints. The case progressed favorablj^, and on November 11, 1870, the patient was transferred to Fort Eichardson, Texas. He was sent to his company at Fort Grifilu. CCXIV.—Mention of a Qunshot Fracture of the Left Radius. By P. J. A. Cleary, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Christopher Boats, Co. D, 9th Cavalry, aged 21 years, was wounded by a weapon in the hands of a fellow-soldier. The missile, a conoidal ball, caused a compound comminuted frac- ture of the radius of the left arm at the middle third, then struck the tenth rib, and passed under the integuments, and lodged two inches to the left of the spine. He was admitted, on June 27, 1870, to the post hospital at Fort Stockton, Texas, where the ball and some small spiculje of bone were removed; chloride of lime and water dressings were applied to the wounds, and splints to the fore-arm with a view to save the limb. He was returned to duty in September, 1870. CCXV.—Mention of a Gunshot Fracture of the Radius. By G. W. TowAR, M. D., Acting Assist- ant Surgeon. Private Thomas Hubbard, Co. C, 2d Cavalry, aged 22 years, was wounded in a fight with Indians on May 17, 1870, by a rifle bullet, which struck the left fore-arm near the wrist, fracturing the radius. He was admitted from the field on May 17, 1870, to Camp Bingham, Little Blue River, Nebraska. The treatment consisted of simple dressings, with splints. He was transferred to the hospital at Omaha Barracks on June 7, 1870, and returned to duty during the same mouth.