163 ARROW-WOUNDS. large number of bones Fic. 37. Stone arrow-head imbedded iu the spinous process of a lumbar vertebra. Spec. 5553, Sect. I, A. M. M. [Natural size.] Fig. 38. Koverse view of the forogoixig specimen. Fig. 39. Cranium with a stone arrow-head in the left orbit. Spec. 5531, Sect. I. A. M. M., Ke- dncod i.J be of great antiquity One was discovered, in looking over a exhumed by Acting Assistant Surgeon A. T. Comfort, from tumuli near Fort Wads worth, Dakota, in the course of his inter- esting explorations of the Indian mounds, in that vicinity, in 1869, and consists of the spinous pro- cess of one of the lumbar verte- brae, in which a small quartz arrow-head is encysted. The missile is so overlaid by new osseous formation, as to prove that the wounded man * survived the injury for many months at least. Two views of the specimen are exhibited in the wood-cuts adjoining, (Figs. 37 and 38.) The other preparation is a cranium transferred to the Army Medical Museum, by the Smith- sonian Institution. It is a skull of an Indian, of advanced age, obtained in Alameda County, California, by Dr. C. Yates. A long flint arrow-head has penetrated the cranial cavity through the left orbit. The lower maxilla is fractured almost vertically to the left of the symphy- sis. The wood-cut (Ym. 39), shows the form of the cranium and the position in which the flint was found impacted. Stone arrow-heads are still used by many of the North American Indians*. Many specimens collected in Arizona, California, Utah, and Oregon, have been forwarded to the museum. It was believed by the collectors that these, in many instances, were poisoned arrows. Eepeated experiments that I have made of inserting the points beneath the skin of small animals, as frogs, birds, and mice, have had negative results, the punctures healing readily, and the animals surviving. Tho Indians may dip their arrow-heads in rattlesnake venom, or the decayed livers of animals, as is commonly stated ; but it is more than doubtful if the arrows thereby become poisonous.f Dr. Bill suggests the employment of archers, with regular troops, to pick off sentinals noiselessly; but he remains more strictly in his province as a medical officer in advising a cuirass for soldiers employed in Indian hostilities. * Lieut. E. G. Beck-witli, 3d Aitillery (Reports of Explorations for a Route for the Pacific Railroad, Vol. II, p. 43, of 2d Eeport), gives tho following description of the manufacture of these stone arrow-heads by the Pitt Eiver Indians of California: " One of them seated himself near me, and made from a fragment of quartz, with a simj>le piece of round bono, one end of which was semi-spherical, with a small crease in it (as if worn by a thread) the sixteenth of an inch in depth, an arrow-head, which was very sharp and piercing, and such as they use on all their arrows. The skill and rajiidity with which it was made, without a blow, but by simply breaking the sharp edges with the creased bone by the strength of his hands—for the crease merely served to prevent the instrument from slipping, affording no leverage—was remarkable." tPAE^!, ed. Malgaigue, p. 183, and the Lyon edition of 1652, p. 287. Also Balingai.l, Outlines of Military Surgery, 5th ed., Edinburgh, 1855, p. 399; and Professor F. H. Hamilton, M. D., Treatise on Military Surgery, New York, 1865, p. 525. There has always been a wide-spread belief in the poisoning of arrow-heads. Every one will recall the "JVcc venenatis gravida sagittas," in Horace, (Od. I, 22, viii.) Pliny relates (Lib. XVI, cap. 35,) of the famous Scythian bowmen : "ScythoR Sagittas tingunt viperina sanie, et Immauo sanguine, irremediaUle id scelus mortem ilUco affert levi tactu." Under the articles "Toxicum" and "Sagitta," in the lexicon of Facciolati and Forcellini, many references to similar allusions by classical authors may be found.