REPOET OF SUEGICAL OASES IE THE AEMY. 42 CXXIY.—Brief Beport of a Case of Gunshot 'Wound involving both the Chest and Abdomen. By J. A, ToNNEB, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Michael O'Oallaglian, Co. D, 6th United States Cavalry, was shot by a citizen, on Feb- ruary 9, 1867, the missile, a buckshot, inflicting wounds of the chest and abdomen. He was admitted from camp to the regimental field hospital at Austin, Texas, on February 10, 1867. He died on the following day. CXXV.—Note of a Gunshot Wound involving the Thorax and Abdomen. By William Deal, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Artificer John Tindolph, Co. K, 1st United States Artillery, aged 21 years, received a gunshot wound of the right side on November 22,1868, by duck-shot, which entered the right side, fracturing the sixth and seventh ribs, passing downward into the liver, lacerating the lower lobe of the right lung. He was admitted to Sedgwick Barracks post hospital, at New Orleans, on November 22d, and died the same day from haemorrhage. The injuries in the cases recorded in the nine foregoing reports were inflicted, in five cases, by musket balls; in two, by pistol balls; in one, by buckshot; in one, by bird shot. Gunshot Wounds of the /Stomach.—It is superfluous to remark on the rarity of recovery from traumatic lesions of the stomach. We have to look back to Dr. Beau- mont's report of the case of Alexis St. Martin for a satisfactory published instance, derived from the surgical annals of the Army. But one case of gunshot wound of the stomach, coming under treatment, is reported in the last five years. CXXVI.—Beport of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Stomach. By W. F. Buchanan, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private James Brennan, Troop F, 7th United States Cavalry, was admitted to hospital at Fort Hays, Kansas, April 18, 1869, for a gunshot wound, from the effects of which he died on the third day after admission. At a post-mortem examination, fifteen hours after death, it was found that a large pistol ball had entered the back directly to the left of the spinal column, and had passed just beneath the left renal artery and through the pyloric extremity of the stomach, making- its exit to the left and about two and a half inches above the umbilicus. The whole extent of the peritomx'um and intestines was congested with an extensive effusion of fibrin. Extensive internal hiemorrhage, most probably from a branch of the gastro-epiploica dextra, had taken place, and was evidently the immediate cause of death. Hasmorrhage from the nose, ears, and mouth took place immediately before death. Gunshot Wounds of the /Small Intestines.—Twenty cases were reported. They were all fatal. Seven were complicated by wounds of large vessels, and the patients died almost immediately. Ten other patients died within forty hours, from internal haemorrhage mainly. As nearly as can be ascertained most of these died in a very few hours. Three patients survived three, five, and twenty-nine days, respectively, and succumbed to peri- tonitis.