EEPOET OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 108 the next morning at sick-call as " feeling no better," and was readmitted to the hospital. On admission, his pulse was 72, and rather feeble; respiration somewhat labored, but otherwise nat- ural ; temperature normal; bowels still constipated; vomited several times ; no pain or abdominal tenderness. Half-grain does of calomel, with one grain of opium, soon stopped vomiting. Enem- ata were given without avail, to move the bowels, though a careful examination of the abdomen showed no great accumulation of ftecal matter. Milk and beef essence, with small doses of whiskey, were administered every hour to supijort strength, which ai)peared to be rajjidly failing, but the man continued, however, to run down in spite of the supporting treatment and faithful nursing, and died early on the morning of October 19th. Post-mortem examination, eight hours after death ; rigor mortis well marked; muscular system well developed ; very slight wasting of adipose tissue; thoracic organs healthy ; small abscess, about the size of a large hazel-nut, in the lower and posterior portion of the spleen, the pus being of a dirty yellowish-brown hue—the whole organ slightly shrunk, and somewhat hardened. Other abdominal organs, save a slight congestion of the mucous coat of the intestines, normal. No febrile symptoms exhibited themselves after readmission, and no i^ositive indications of the spleen trouble were manifest, though it was feared, by exclusion, that a lesion of the spleen existed. CCCLXI.—Bciwrt of a Case of Contusion of the Pelvis. By A. G. Skinner, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Thomas Morgan, Co. A, 42d Infantry, aged 34, was admitted to the hospital at Fort Niagara, New York, on October 2, 1867, the wheel of a loaded cart having run over his pelvis on the day previously. There was swelling, with extensive ecchjnuosis over the upper portion of the sacrum, and he complained of much pain. The patient was unable to walk. A stimulating lotion was applied to the contused i)arts, and anodynes were administered. A tumor, which formed over the injured ijart, was several times opened, and its contents evacuated. The patient suffered from chill and fever. By November, his general health had improved under expectant treatment; but the wound was still open. On December 6th, he was iiermitted to do light duty, the wound being frequently examined. Being returned to hospital on the 27th, the wound was swollen, inflamed, and freely discharging dark, piirulent matter. The swelling having subsided by January 13, 1868, and the condition of the wound remaining unchanged, an incision three inches long was made down to the diseased structure, which was found to be a hard, cartilaginous growth, with bony deposit, between which and the periosteum the purulent matter had been lodged, and escaped by means of an opening. On dissecting out this diseased growth, and touching the walls of the remaining cavity with nitrate of silver, the wound was closed with adhesive strip and a compress. But little suppuration followed, and on the 28th, the wound being nearly healed, the patient was returned to duty. CCCLXII.—Report of a Case of a Contused Wound of the Perincewm. By John T. King, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Charles May, Co. E, 2d Infantry, aged 25 years, while intoxicated, fell astride of a board as he was descending the steps in the rear of his company quarters, on February 22, 1870. Immediately after the fall there was great swelling and induration of the periniiium, and the calibre of the urethra was encroached ujion to such an extent that the x^a^tient was unable to micturate. On the next day he complained of severe pain behind the pubes. An attempt was made to introduce the catheter, which failed. On February 27th the bladder had become enor- mously distended Avith urine, and every local symptom was aggravated. There was great hypcr- aisthesia of the entire abdomen, and considerable swelling and slight fluctuation in the perina-um. There was intense thirst, (luick pulse, nausea, and headache* A second attempt was made to introduce the catheter, but the great pain, enormous swelling, and spasmodic contraction, compli- cated with acute gonorrluea, proved obstacles not readily overcome. Still the effort M as persisted in to relieve the bladder in this way rather than resort to either recto vesical or su])ra-i)ubic punc- ture. After considerable ettbrt the catheter was introduced and about six quarts of fluid drawn, ol' wliich it was estimated fully one-half was blood. On March 1st the swelling of the i»erina'um