EXCISIONS IN THE HUMERUS. 225 The ^Yonn(I progressed favorably, healthy callus formed, and the bone united in four weeks. On March 31, 18G8, the external wounds still suppurated slightly, but the parts around the fracture had become indurated. DCXXX.—Account of an Excision of a Portion of the Humerus and the Olecranon Process of Ulna. By H. A. BuBois, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Sergeant Charles Brunett, Co. D, 3d Cavalry, aged 26 years, was admitted to hospital at Fort Union, New Mexico, June 7, 1807, with a gunshot wound of the arm. The ball passed from behind, forward, and upward, through the olecranon process, shattering the condyles of the humerus and the shaft for a distance of three and a lialf inches. On June lOtli, the shattered portion of the humerus and olecranon process Avere excised, and the wound was closed with wire sutures. The patient recovered, and was discharged from service September 21, 18G7. DCXXXI.— Account of an Excision of a Portion of the Humerus. By W. F. Buchanan, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Frank Crith, Co. G, 38th Infantry, aged 22 years, was admitted to the hospital at Fort Hays, Kansas, August 24, 1808, for caries of the humerus. Having been accidentally shot nearly one year previously, by a conoidal musket ball, which formed a compound fracture of the right humerus in the middle third.* Subse- quent to the reception of the injury he was attended by the post surgeon at Fort Harker, Kansas, who, patient states, removed several pieces of bone, adjusted the fracture and applied splints. Pieces of bone were at times removed while under treatment at Fort Harker. The patient's general health was good, notwithstanding the occasional exfoliation of bone and a discharge of sanious foetid character, with \,,t^^ slight pain. On August 27, the patient was antesthetized, and the parts were Fig. 44.—Por- thoroughly examined. Two or three small sinuses were found leading to the bone, tion of simft of -^iiich appeared to be firmly united at the seat of fracture, but roughened on excised for KmV- its surfacc. An iucisiou down to the bone showed it to be entirely denuded of shot -wound, periosteum in its entire circumference. Excision being determined upon the bone was i^A m^m'^'"'* sawn through by means of a chain saw, and a portion of the shaft, three and one- eighth inches in length, was removed. Very little venous hiemorrhage attended the operation; no arteries were cut. The parts were well washed, and the incision united by the interrupted suture. The patient was removed to his bed and the arm carefully placed iu position on small pillows, with fore-arm flexed on the chest, and cold-water dressing instituted. A narrow strip of lint had been left in between the sutures to prevent discharge during suppuration. August 29th, the arm was swollen, red, and painful, with appearances threatening erysijielas. There was a bloody, dark-colored discharge, with considerable nervous irrita- bility, and the appetite was poor. Patient was given a nourishing diet, with milk and brandy launch occasionally throughout the day; the pus was well pressed from the arm by the fingers on each side from below upward, a solution of chlorinated soda was applied three times daily, and the water dressing continued. On September 7th, the condition of the arm was much imi)roved. Healthy granulations and suppuration, with extensive formation of callus, appeared. The arm was adjusted iu angular splints made of binder's boards, the fore-arm being flexed, the whole bandaged firmly, apertures being made through the dressing for the exit of the products ot suppuration, the splint applied to anterior and internal surface of arm reaching close up in the axilla ; thus arranged there was a moderate degree of extension kept up by the angle of the splints on the fore arm and the internal splint in the axilla. September 28th, callus had been formed to the entire extent of the excision, bony union had taken place, and the temporary callus was being absorbed. On October 7th the discharge had ceased. The splints were removed, and on October 2Sth the patient had entirely recovered. The arm was of natural size, and the functions of hand and arm were well performed. He could lift eight or ten pounds, and the arm was still becoming stronger. No atrophy. He was discharged June 11, 1809. The specimen is represented in the adjoining wood-cut. 29 ' See Case CCVII, p. 62,