33 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. Gunshot Wounds of the Heart.—Fourteen instances of this form of injury were reported. Death followed very promptly in almost every case, though, in one instance of a pistol-ball wound of the right auricle, the patient survived fifty hours. Eight were examples of wounds from musket, and five from pistol balls. One was inflicted by an Indian, two by sentinels, one accidentally, two suicidally, and the eight other cases were murders. XCV.—Memoranchmi of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Heart. By Caklos CARVAiLO, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. At Jeiferson, Texas, First Sergeant Daniel Miirpliy, Co. I, 11th United States Infantry, aged 25 years, committed suicide, on September 19, 1870, by sliooting himself with a small Derringer pistol, the ball penetrating the left lung and the heart. He lived twenty-seven minutes after being shot. XCVI.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Lung and Heart. By A. W. Wiggin, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Philip Curry, a citizen, was shot in a drunken row at Pond Creek Stage Station, Kansas, on April 1, 1868. Saw him at midnight and found a penetrating Dullet wound of the right side of the thorax; there was no wound of exit. The patient was taken to the post hospital at Fort Wallace, Kansas, a distance of four miles, being able to get into and out of the ambulance without assist- ance. He seemed quite strong for an hour or two after admission. After a while, however, he began to grow anxious and suffered much paiu. He was unable to retain nourishment, and required to be kept in a sitting posture. He was quieted by hypodermic injections of a solution of sulphate of morphia, the only thing attempted in the way of medication. On the morning of April 2d, the right side of the chest was evidently filling up with iiuid. The heart beat irregularly and tumultu- ously. Toward evening he became exhausted; sleep profound, and respiratory efforts only five or six per minute; pulse feeble and fluttering. He died half an hour after midnight April 1868, twenty-six hours after reception of injury. An autopsy, made fifteen hours after death, revealed the course of the ball. It entered three inches inside and one inch above right nipple, passed between the cartilages of third and fourth rib close to the sternum, through anterior margin of the lower lobe of right lung into the pericardium, through the right auricle, and entered again the right pleural cavity, xjassing through posterior margin of lower lobe of right lung. A conical ball—size of Colt's Navy revolver—was found in the right pleural cavity. The left lung and cavity were perfectly normal; the right lung was engorged and somewhat compressed by coagulated blood in the l)leural cavity. Pericardium much distended and containing six or eight ounces of partially coagulated blood. There was a fibrinous clot in the left ventricle. XCVII.—Memorandum of a Case of Gtinshot Wound of the Heart, probably by Suicide. By F. Meacham, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Eollin Cofcart, Co. G, 4th United States Infantry, left Fort Laramie April 6, 1870, with- out leave. His body was found April 7tli, about twenty miles southeast from the post, under circum- stances that led to the belief that he committed suicide. The autopsy was made April 7, 1870, at 5 P. M., time after death unknown—probably twenty-four hours; rigor mortis sti'ougly marked; a little blood found on face, about the mouth and nose. The blouse was whole, but a hole was found in both shirts, on the left side of the body. A wound was found about two inches below the left nipple, passing backward and upward, and slightly inward. This wound was surrounded by a margin of burned powder about an inch wide, below the wound, from two to four inches wide above the wound, and to its left. On the back was found a wound situated about two inches to the left of the spine, and on a plane with the spine of the sixth dorsal vertebra. No i^owder was found about this wound. On opening the thorax it was found that the ball had jjassed between the fifth and sixth ribs, outside and near the junction of the ribs with the cartilage, theu entered the pericar- 5