LACERA^D AND CONTUSED WOUNDS. 105 of the cranium at the seat of the wound, and feeling some assurance there was no fracture, Surgeon Clements made an incision at the seat of the wound, and introducing a finger, found no evidence either of fracture or depression ; there was no effusion beneath the scalp. Bowels moved freely; there was a purplish ecchymosis at the inner angle of both eye-lids, not extending to the mucous membrane of the eye or eye-lids, and some tumefaction of the skin of forehead. He was quiet and disposed to sleep; i^atient improved, and by February 15th, the wound of scali) had entirely healed; he complained at times of acute pain at the seat of the wound, otherwise he was quite well. He was returned to duty February 27,1868, and advised not to ride on horseback for a month, and to be temperate. He still at times had a rather acute pain at the seat of the wound of scalp. One point of interest in this case was the character of the ecchymosis around the eyes, which might have been confounded with that which is seen at times in fracture of the base of the skull, but for its superficial character. CCCLII.—Bemarks relative to a Case of Contusion. By P. J. A. Cleary, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Daniel Sullivan, Co. E, 45th Infantry, was admitted to the post hospital at Chatta- nooga, November 25, 1867, having, while intoxicated, been engaged in a fight. His face was cov- ered with blood and bruises. On washing awaj^ the blood, a flesh-wound was found over the left eye, about an inch in length, and another on the left side of the head, about an inch and a half from the median line, commencing at the coronal suture, and passing downward and inward for two inches. This wound had evidently been made with a blunt weapon, probably brass knuckles. On examination, the lower iiart of the Avound was found to extend to the bone, which was denuded of its periosteum to the extent of about half a square inch, but neither depression or fracture could be detected. He also complained of severe pain in the back from a kick. There was discoloration over the third and fourth lumbar vertebrte, with great tenderness on pressure. The patient was fully conscious, but very restless. Cold applications were made to the head, and Hoffman's ano- dyne administered. Patient slept well during the night, and the next morning felt much relieved. He continued to imj)rove, and on December 13th was returned to duty. CCCLIII.—Note of a Case of Contusion of the Chest. By W. T. Hyson, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private John Delaney, of Battery F, 5th Artillery, aged 24, while at drill on November 6, 1867, at Camp Williams, near Eichmond, Virginia, was knocked down by the wheel of the limber, and immediately run over by the gun-oarriage, the wheel passing transversely over his thorax, immediately above the nipples. Incredible to say, he was not killed by the immense weight of the gun (a three-inch Eodmau rifle), but was not even hurt seriously. He rode from the drill-ground on the caisson-box. The track of the wheel was distinctly shown by discoloration on the left side and front of the thorax. On the folloAving day, November 7th, he was well, except a slight sore- ness in the region of the bruise. On the second day he was returned to duty, well, and continued so at the date of this report. CCCLIV.—Report of a Case of Contusion folloiced by Pleuritis and Hepatitis. ByD. Meeritt, Surgeon, 4th Veteran Volunteers. Lieutenant Daniel K. Springer, 4th Veteran Volunteers, was taken with a severe pain in the right side, in the region of the liver, the symptoms being those of acute inflammation of that organ. He was admitted on August 8, 1865, to the hospital at Camp Chase, Ohio. An abscess soon after formed in the right hypochondriac region, the tumefaction spreading toward the epigastrium, and between the floating ribs and liver. Poultices of flaxseed meal were applied, and the tumor was opened, giving exit to more than two quarts of bloody pus of a very unhealthy character. Gan- grene soon after supervened; then extensive sloughing, involving a portion of the rectus abdomi- nis muscle, and causing an opening into the trausA'crse colon, through which fecal matter escaped until, by enemata, it was passed through the natural way. The gangrene was arrested by appli- 14