SIMPLE AND COMPOUND FEACTUEES. 129 CCCOXI.—Account of a Case of Fracture of tJie Lower Jaw. By Irving C Eosse, M. D., Act- ing Assistant Surgeon. Private Edward Sbeeliy, Battery 0, 5tli Artillery, aged about 30 years, and of fair condition, was admitted to the hospital of the artillery school at Fort Mouroe, ou October 15, 1870, with a transverse fracture of the body of the inferior maxilla to the right of the symphysis. He stated that he was kicked under the chin, a few hours previously, while in an altercation with another soldier. A suitable splint of pasteboard having been made, and immersed in hot water, was moulded to the chin and jaw. This Avas retained by a combination of the four-tailed bandage with that of Gibson. That i)art of the appliance covering the lower jaw was starched, and the bandages were tightened nearly every day. Quiet was enforced, liquid nourishment given, and the patient lirohibited from talking. This treatment maintained the parts in steady apposition, and the soldier was returned to duty November 17, 1870. CCCCXII.—Note on a Fracture of the Lower Jaw. By J. H. Bayne, Acting Assistant Sui-geon. Private Henry Wimsett, Co. I, 4th Artillery, was discharged March 14,1868, from Fort Foote, Maryland, on account of compound comminuted fracture of the lower maxillary bone, caused by the wheels of a wagon passing over it. The accident was followed by grave inflammation, pro- ducing rigidity of the jaw, ami such impairment of the power of mastication, that his disability was rated one-half by the i)eusiou examining surgeon. .Fractures of the Vertebres.—Brief mention is made in the reports of some instances of compound fracture of the spine from railway accidents. Of simple fractures details have been given in two instances only. CCCCXIII.—Account of a Fracture of the Fourth Cervical Vertebra. By G. H. GuNN, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. At Waco, Texas, March 5, 1870, Private John Harkey, Co. E, 6th Cavalry, aged 30 years, received, by a fall through an open door on the second floor of a building occupied as barracks, a fracture of the fourth cervical vertebra. Complete paralysis of both motion and sensation of the lower extremities, and most of the trunk and upper extremities immediately ensued. He was admitted to hospital the same day. He died, on the morning of the 7th, of acute myelitis, his intelligence remaining unimpaired throughout. Treatment sedative and stimulant. CCCCXIV.—Abridged Account of a Fracture of the Fifth Cervical Vertebra. From reports furnished by H. E. TiLTON, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Emmet J , Co. A, 5th Infantry, aged 19 years, and of splendid physical organiza- tion, was in the habit of bathing in the Arkansas Eiver, at a place near Fort Lyon, Colorado Territory, where the wtihzr was ordinarily from six to eight feet deep, and so muddy as to render an object unseen at a de^th of six inches. On July 3, 1868, in diving from the bank he struck his head against the bottom, which, being sandy and constantly shifting, was upon this particular occasion only eighteen inches below the surface. Becoming immediately powerless from the effects of the concussion, he would have drowned had not help been given. The legs and arms being paralyzed he was carried on a stretcher to the hospital, lying ou his abdomen. Upon admis- sion, at 1 o'clock P. M., the pulse, respiration, and temperature were not counted, nevertheless they appeared nornuxl; the pupils were unaffected; there was priapism. The power sooi*-returned to the arms, although feeble. The extremities were warm, and when touched the sensation was more 17