251 OPERATIONS ON THE ABDOMEN. Museum by tlie operator. It is fij?ured of half the natural size in the foregoing wood-cut, (Fig. 52).]' DCLXXXVI.—iliirtH^e of an Oj)emtion for Imj)erfomte Rectum. By Irvinq C. Eosse, M. D., Acting Assistant Siirgeon. At Fort Monroe, Virginia, in August, 1870, an operation for the removal of a membranous obstruction in the roctnm of a newly-born male child was performed by George E. Cooper, Surgeon, U. S. A. An opening was maintained by the daily introduction of a bougie. The natural passages were restored, and rapid recovery ensued. DCLXXXVII.—A&s/rrtc/s of Eeports of Operations for Fistula in Ano. By J. F. Weeds, Surgeon U. S. A.; F. A. Davis and E. Bowman, Acting Assistant Surgeons; and A. C. Girard, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Case 1.—Private Andrew Clifford, Co. B, 17th Infantry, aged 26 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Cheyenne Agency, Dakota Territory, December 2, 1870, with an anal fistula of two years' standing. The external orifice was three and a half inches from the margin of the anus the internal orifice being jnst above the sphincter. The fistulous track was very tortuous and sacculated, it being necessary to enlarge the external opening in order to pass a i^robe through its whole extent. On December 5th, the whole of the superimposed structure was divided on a grooved director, previously passed along the fistulous track. No ana?sthetic was used, and there was but moderate haemorrhage. Poultices of linseed meal and a solution of carbolic acid were ai^plied, and on January 16, 1871, the patient was returned to duty. Case 2.—Private George Eogers, Co. D, 16th Infantry, aged" 24 years, was admitted to post hospital at Nashville, December 20, 1870, with fistula in ano. The general condition Avas favorable. Infiammation had subsided. The sphincter was divided on the 21st and kept open by tents satu- rated with glycerine and carbolic acid. The wound healed rapidly, and the man was soon returned to duty. Case 3.—Private John A. Graves, Co. A, 21th Infantry, was admitted to the hosiiital at Fort Bliss, Texas, November 2, 1870, with a fistula in ano of long standing. A thickened indurated canal opened into the rectum above the sphincter, and externally near the tuberosity of the left ischium. On November 4, 1870, the sphincter ani was divided, and tents of lint saturated with liquor of the persulijhate of iron were introduced. The patientrecovered rapidly, and was discharged on account of expiration of term of service. Case 4.—Private Timothy Soleven, Co. H, 19th Infantry, aged 21 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Baton Eouge, Louisiana, June 9, 1809, with fistula in ano. There was extensive suppuration from the i)erineal tissues. On June 24th, an inductor was introduced through the fistula into the rectum and the bridge divided with a curved bistouri. A teut, soaked in glycerine, was introduced, and the bowels were kept inactive by opium. Subsequently the bowels were cleaned every morning by injection. On June 30th, the wound had almost entirely healed. DCLXXXYIII.—Operation for Eemoral of Ecemorrhoids. By John H. Bartholf, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private James S. Kehan, Co. H, 11th Infantry, aged 30 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Camp Grant, near Eichmond, on August 15, 1807, with an aggravated form of internal piles, which he had suffered from for two mouths prior to admission. The mass protruding was of a size equal to twice the bulk of a black walnut, and bled profusely at every stool, of which he had two or