AMPUTATIONS OF THE THIGH. 209 his bowels not having moved for fifteen days, sulphate of magnesia was given, and being continued until the 18th without effect, castor oil and turpentine were prescribed, which gradually relieved the constipation. On the 16th, the stump being a little swelled and puft'y, a chlorinated linseed meal poultice was applied, and on the 2()th, warm-water dressings were resorted to. From the latter date to March 2d the patient improved rapidly. A very large quantity of hardened faeces, retaining the impress of the sulci of large intestine, was discharged. On the latter date the ligatures from the femoral and from one of the small arteries came away, and the remaining one in a day or two afterward. On March 31st the bandages and compresses were removed, and the iiatient attempted to walk but was compelled to desist on account of pain in the left knee ; soap liniment was applied to the joint. The edges of the patella, which were one-half inch apart, united by ligamentous union. Xo attention having been given to this wound previous to his admission to hospital, bony union could not be expected. There was no swelling in the joint, and it was thought that anchylosis would not occur. On April 18th he was about to start for home. Dissection of the amputated leg disclosed a stellated fracture of the head of the tibia, extending into the knee-joint, with both bones crushed into about twenty fragments. DXOIY.—Memorandtmi Eelative to a Secondary Amputation of tJie Thigh. Private Jesse M. Jones, Co. K, 21st Indiana Volunteers, aged 29 years, was wounded at Baton Rouge, Louisiana, August 5.1862, by a musket ball, which fractured the right femur, at the junction of the middle and upper third. He was taken to the regimental hospital the night after, remained a day, and was then sent, bv a transport steamer, to New Fig. 4a-Gjmsi.ot fracture of right fe^ Odcaus, the limb m^cauwhile being supported by and middle thirds. Spec. 5.5d8, sect. I, A. M. M. " a l l j bandages and pillows. On arrival, August 7th, he was admitted to the St. James Hospital, where a long splint was applied, seventeen days after the reception of the wound. The patient was discharged the service April 15, 1863, and was pen- sioned, his disability being rated total and temporary. From that date till January, 1869, he suffered much pain from frequent exfoliations and abscesses, when he entered Providence Hospital at Washington ; and on the 23d, Doctor D. W. Bliss, late Surgeon, U. S. V., amputated the thigh in the upper third, and afterward contributed the pathological specimen to the Army Medical Museum. It is represented in the adjoining wood-cut, showing great deformity with exfoliations on posterior aspect, and a fragment of lead imbedded in the callus. On March 9, 1869, the patient visited the Museum, recovered, and his photograph was taken to accompany the specimen. (A M. M. Card Photographs, Yol. 1, page 27.) DXCV.—AcGotint of an Amputation of the Thigh for Gunshot Injury. By A. F. Steig-ers, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Robert Kiunear, Co. C, 21st Infantry, aged 27 years, received an accidental gunshot fracture of the knee-joint, with extensive laceration of the parts, and was admitted to the hospital at Camp Verde, Arizona Territory, on October 4, 1870, in an exhausted and almost pulseless condition from previous loss of blood. Operation was postponed until the next day for reaction, when, the knee being much swollen, Acting Assistant Surgeon J. T. Pindell, after chloroforming the patient, amputated the thigh just above the knee, by the lateral-flap operation. There was little haemorrhage ; the femoral artery and its branches were ligated ; reaction was moderate. Beef-tea and stimulants by enema were ordered. Ninety-nine hours after the reception of the w^ouud, he died of i^ycemia. DXCVI.—Memorandum relative to an Amputation of the Thigh for Synovitis. Private William H. Long, Co. B, 81th Indiana Volunteers, sprained his left knee joint in the autumn of 1864. He was mustered out of service on June 14, 1865, and pensioned. On May 25, 27