REPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 122 scratches on the forehead. Upon removing the scalp, however, there was found a contused appear- ance of the lelt temporal muscle, under which was an extensive fissure of the squamous portion of the temporal bone, commencing at the point of junction with the parietal, downward about three- quarters of an in(!h, and forward and outward two inches, to the temporal surface of the great wing of the sphenoid bone. A smaller fracture, involving only the internal table at its beveled edge, was also detected. Directly under the seat of injury lay a large clot, weighing about six ounces, pressing upon the unruptured dura mater—the result of laceration of one of the branches of the middle meningeal artery. The pathological specimen is numbered 5579, Surgical Section, Army Medical Museum, and is a good example of linear fissure. CCCXCV.—Memorandum of an Autopsy of a Pensioner at the Soldiers^ Home, who had his SJiull Fractured by a Fall. From data furnished by Hospital Steward E. F. Schafhirt, U. S. A. Charles L., a pensioner, aged 34 years, suffering from erysipelas and caries of the nasal bones, having committed some misdemeanor while under the influence of liquor, was confined to the guard-house. Being very violent, he was supposed to have the " horrors." On October 29, 1870, he leaped from the window of the guard house, and, striking on the right side of his head, fractured his skull. He had other internal injuries, and survived the accident but half an hour. On examining the exterior of the head, a great eflusion of blood was found under the occipito- frontalis. The orbits were distended with blood. It was thought that a long-fissured fracture extended along the vault of the skull, through the right parietal and temporal bones. Sub- _ sequent examination jiroved this opinion to be correct. On ~ October 30th, Hospital Steward E. F. Schafhirt, U. S. A., by direction of Brevet Lieutenant Colonel C. H. Lanb, Surgeon, U. S. A., made an autopsy, and brought the cranium to the Museum. There was an extended linear fissure of the right parietal and temjioral, with fracture of the base of the skull, extending through the wing of the sphenoid, and radiating. There was no extravasation of blood between the skull and dura mater; but the sinuses and vessels of the pia mater were gorged with blood. Near the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, the dura mater showed marks of chronic inflammation, having the greenish-yellow fringed processes with adherent curdy pus over a space about an inch and a half in diameter. The skull is specimen 5721; the brain is specimen 5722, and portions of the dura mater 5723. Fig. 16. Simple fissured fracture of the right parietal and temporal. 5jjec. 5721, Sect. I, A. M. M. CCCXCYL—Accotmt of a Fracture of the Sicull by a Bumb-Bell. By W. H. Geokge, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Michael Lawrence, Co. D, 20th Infantry, was accidentally wounded, September 16, 1870, by an iron dumb-bell, which lacerated the forehead and slightly fractured the external plate of the skull over the frontal sinus. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Ransom, Dakota Territory, on the following day. Simple dressings were applied. Returned to duty October 9th, cured. QOCXGYll.—Account of a Fracture of the SMIL By D. Stevens, M. D., Acting Assistant Sur- geon. At Baton Rouge, Louisiana, Sergeant Frank Lightner, Co. C, 65th Colored Troops, aged 22 years, received, by explosion of the steamer City of Memphis, May 31, 1806, a compound commi- nuted fracture of the outer table of the occipital bone, near the junction of the sagittal and lambdoid sutures. He was admitted to the post hospital July 1, 1866. He returned to duty August 26, 1866. •