229 EXCISIONS AT THE HIP-JOINT. pillow under tbe knee. A Smith's anterior splint not being on liand, nor the material procurable for making one, a long external splint, made in two parts, and connected by iron braces, was devised and put in course of construction. The after treatment consisted in carbolized dressings to the wound, the administration of antiperiodics to control a fever of a remittent tyjie (at one time supposed to be the i)recursor of erysipelas or pyeemia), and a plain nutritious diet. Notwith- standing freqnent displacement of the limb from occasional attacks of diarrho?a, and the absence of a proper apparatus to secure immobility, the performance of this formidable operation seemed to have imi)arted a new tenure of life. By November 20th the patient was able to walk about the hospital, and the further progress of the case was as i^apid as it was favorable. On May IG, 1869, this soldier was discharged the service, and pensioned for total and i)ermanent disability, the injured member being shortened one inch and three-quarters. He came across the Plains by the next train, and in September, 1809, rei)orted at the Surgeon General's Office, Avhere a photograph was taken. At that time, the patient's general health was excellent; the cicatrix was perfectly firm and sound, and the strength of the ligamentous attachments and the amount of control over the movements of the limb were very remarkable. He could bear much weight on the limb. He was supplied with a protective apparatus and advised not to use it straightway, but to continue exercising the limb continuously for some months, thereby increasing the strength of the muscles and ligamentous attachments, and the freedom of the newly-formed joint. The next week Eead Avent to New York, where the proposed apparatus was ingeniously applied by Dr. E. B. Hudson. In the summer of 1870, it was reported that this man could walk very comfortably with a cane either with or without apparatus. The appearance of the i^atient is shown in the accompanying- plate. In June, 1871, three years after the operation, the man was in very good health, and couUl Avalk almost as well as ever. . DOXXSIX.—An Intermediary Uxcision at the Hij), lierformed in 1807. Surgeon, U. S. A. By Glover Pekin, Private Francis Ahearn, general service, aged 30 years, was wounded at Newport Barracks, Louisville, Kentucky, on July 31, 1807. He was a prisoner in the guardhouse, and was shot by a sentinel while attempting to escape. The ball entered behind and below the prominence of the right tro- chanter major, and passed inward and upward, emerging on the anterior part of the thigh, two inches below Poupart's ligament, a little to the outside of the course of the femoral artery, having shattered the upper part of the femur, the fissures extending within the joint. The wounded man was immediately taken to the post hospital, and was ex- amined by Doctor Pei'in, the surgeon in charge. The liatieut had been an habitual drunkard for years, and had mania a potn when shot. The shock of the injury Avas so great than an operation Avas not considered advisable. It AA^as determined to adopt a supporting treatment, and to endeavor to build up the general health, Avith the view of operating at the first favorable moment Avhen a good result could be reasonably anticipated. On August 20, 1867, the patient Avas in better condition than at any time subsequent to the reception of the injury. The pulse Avas at 90 there had been troublesome diarrhoea, but it Avas somewhat abated; the injured limb was much wasted, except at the upper part of the thigh where it Avas greatly swollen; the discharge from the wound Fig. 48.—Shattered upper extremity . -, \^ j • i • i j. i. of the right fenmr, excised for ^^'^^ vcry copious, and there was extreme pam on the slightest mov-e- caries following gimshot fracture, mcut. There wcrc absccsscs about the joint communicating with its Spec. 5489, Sect. I, A. M. M. operation, assisted by T. insensible by a mixture of chloroform and ether, the entrance wound was enlarged by a straight incision downAvard, three inches in length. The head of the bone was disarticulated, and cavity. Excision having been decided upon, I proceeded with the E. Wilcox, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. The patient being endered