AMPUTATIONS OF THE LEG. 199 DLXVI.—Report of an Amputation of the Leg for Railway Injury. By B. E. Fryer, Surgeon, U. S. A. Otlio Joliuson, a destitute civilian, aged 37 years, of good liealtli and habits, liad his left foot crushed, with fracture of the metatarsal bones, by a raihoad car. On November 18, 1870, he was admitted to the hospital at Fort Harker, Kansas. An effort to save the foot was made, which seemed to promise success; but, on November 30th, being gangrenous as far as the ankle-joint, the patient was etherized, and the leg was amputated in the lower third, lateral skin flajis being made with the intention of bringing the line of cicatrization between the tibia and fibula. Four ligatures were applied. The patient reacted promptly from influence of anjcsthetic. Carbolic acid dressings were ai)plied. Union was immediate, save where ligatures were brought out at flap angles. As soon as the ligatures were removed the stump healed. On December 31, 1870, the stump was full and round, and the line of cicatrix was so situated between the tibia and fibula that it could not be pressed upon by them. DLXVII.—Remarks on an Amputation of the Leg for Frost-Bite. By C. E. MuNN, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Charles Kridenoff, Co. D, 20th Infantry, while with a party marking a railroad, February 11, 1870, was exposed in a storm on tlie i)rairie for thirty-six hours, and both of his feet were frost-bitten. He was admitted into the post hospital at Fort Ransom, Dakota Territory, on the next day. The right foot was gangrenous to the ankle-joint. On March 1st I administered ether, and amputated the right leg at the lower third by the antero posterior flap method. Three ligatures were applied. There was but little htemorrhage, and the flaps approximated. On March 12th, gangrene having attacked the left foot, I divided the metatarsal bones in the line of demarc- ation, and partially excised the os calcis. In the operation of separating the sloughing parts the entire plantar surface was removed, no anaesthetic being used. On March 31, 1870, the patient still remained under treatment. The stump of the right leg was nearly cicatrized, two ligatures still being adherent; that of the left was granulating kindly. He was transferred to the post hospital at Fort Abercrombie, Dakota Territory, September 13, 1870, and transferred to the Soldiers' Home, at Washington, October 8,1870. The man has applied for a pension, and the case is pending. DLXVITI.—Report of an Amputation of the Leg on aceount of an Injury. By H. Fletcher, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Patrick O'Brien, Co. G, 25th Infantry, aged 21 years, while trimming a tree at or near Humboldt, Tennessee, March 23, 1808, fell twenty feet, his whole weight coming upon his right leg on sloping ground. The fibula was fractured two inches from the lower extremity, several fragments of bone were broken off of each malleolus, and the tibia projected two inches through the flesh, rupturing ligaments and veins and opening the ankle-joint. He was admitted to the post hospital of the above place. There being no instruments at the post. Dr. Thompson, upon my invitation, thi-ee hours after the injury, amputated the leg three inches above the ankle-joint, by the circular method. A mixture of chloroform and ether was the antesthetie used. On the ninth day, the case was progressing finely. He was discharged the service oh July 12, 18G8, and pen- sioned, his disability being rated total. In January, 18G9, he was furnished with an artificial limb, which proved highly useful. At that date, the stump was less than normal size, but was perfectly healed. He is an inmate of the Soldiers' Home, Dayton, Ohio, DLXIX.—Account of an Amputation of the Leg. From the reports of S. A. Storrow, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A., and W. E. Day, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private James Palmer, Battery F, 3d Artillery, aged 22 years, while on guard December 24, 1869, was accidentally wounded by a musket ball, which caused a compound comminuted fracture