79 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE LOWEE EXTKEMITIES. wouud was dressed with a solution of permanganate of potash, and opium was given. The patient was tolerably comfortable till April 1st, when he complained of much pain. He rested badly at night, pulse almost imperceptible; left leg much swollen, and temperature diminished, giving tbe premonitions of gangrene. Ordered morphine, egg-nog, and beef-tea, and warm api)lications to leg. Eleven A. M.: Patient, after taking a spoonful of egg-nog, vomited. Twelve M.: Eapidly grow- ing worse, and died at 2 P. M. Autopsy by Dr. De Loffre. Much effusion of serum in areolar tissue of left leg; gangrene of the large muscles around the wounds. Great sciatic nerve much contused by ball; not otherwise injured. All the internal organs healthy. Large clots of blood in the aorta and in the right auricle. Gun-shot wounds of the Knee-joint.-—-There are four reports of cases of recovery after gunshot wounds, believed to have involved the knee-joint. The details of evidence will hardly satisfy skeptical military surgeons. COLXXV.—Report of a Case of Ounshot Wound of the Knee-Joint. By H. E. Tilton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Thomas Murray, Co. B, 7th Cavalry, who was shot through the knee-joint at Fort Lyons, Colorado Territory, in January, 1887, recovered without an unfavorable symptom. He could move the joint slightly on the 4th of February. February 19th, just four weeks from the ' date of the injury, he was able to stand on the foot and walk a few steps without crutch or cane- At present, in walking, he has to keep the joint stiff, but eventually there will be very good motion, and little inconvenience from the injury. At the time Murray was shot, January 22,1867, the only probe which I used was the end of my little finger. I was satisfied that the ball had not passed around the joint. No benefit would have been derived by the patient by making further efforts to determine the exact course of the ball. I was under the impression that it had jiassed through the head of the tibia. I am satisfied by the result that it could not have done so ; but the ball could open the synovial membrane and pass through the joint without injury to either the femur or tibia. The result is remarkable. He was returned to duty on March 4, 1867, but riding caused the knee to swell. He was returned to duty again in March, 1867, able to attend to any duty except riding. I remember a case in the Vicksburg campaign, where the ball struck the patella without fracturing it or opening tbe joint, and passed up the thigh superficially, escai)ing four inches above, and yet the man died of inflammation of the knee-joint. CCLXXVI.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Woimd of the Knee-Joint. By Joseph Kugler, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Charles Willis, Troop G, 3d Cavalry, was wounded, October 3, 1866, in an engagement with Ute Indians at Purgatory Creek, Colorado Territory, by a rifle bullet, which entered a little above the external condyle of the right femur, fractured the patella, opened the knee-joint and lodged, it is supposed, in the internal condyle. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Garland, Colorado Territory, on October 12th, having been carried in an ambulance from Trinidad, over a very rough mountain road. When admitted he was in such a weak and exhausted condition that it was thought inadvisable to submit him to an operation; his system being very irritable, the wounded part painful, and dreading symptoms of pysemia, he was put on nutritious diet, with stimulants and narcotics, together with soothing and emollient applications to the knee. Although several abscesses formed, and the discharge was very plentiful, he seemed to be in a much better condition on October 31st than when he entered the hospital. His situation was still very critical, but it was thought he might so far improve as to make it possible to save his life by an operation, even should the limb have to be sacrificed. In December, 1866, Willis was reported as still con- fined to his bed, and despite the greatest care taken to prevent tliem, suffered from bed-sores. Some