EEPOET OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 70 Gunshot Wounds of the Lowee Extremities.—The reports of many cases will be found in the next chapter. Only those relating to cases treated without operative interference will be recorded here. Gunshot fractures of the Femur.—The nine following reports give the particulars of three fatal cases of fracture of the upper third of the femur, one involving the hip-joint— of three cases of fracture of the middle third, with one recovery—and of three fractures ol the lower third, all terminating favorably: CCXLII.—Report of a Fatal Case of Gunshot Fracture of tlie Right Feimir. By J. Basil Gieard, Assistant Surgeon, TJ. S. A. Private Emmet Smith, Co. B, 7th Infantry, aged 23 years, was wounded on May 6, 1870, by a musket ball from a Eemiugton breech-loader. The missile entered the right thigh anteriorly some four or five inches below the anterior superior spinous process on the right side, fractured the femur, and lodged in the limb. The patient, a Frenchman, enlisted under an assumed name, and to all appearances not over 18 or 19 years of age, was conveyed to Fort Steele, a distance of about thirty-eight miles. When admitted to the hospital he was in a state of col- lapse, and suffered acute and severe pains. Stimulants were given every half hour during the following night, until reaction took place. On May 7th, chloroform was administered. The ball was found under the skin, two or three inches back of the great trochanter, and was removed through a small incision through which I introduced a finger in each wound. The femur was found shattered to a feaiful extent. The incision for the extraction of the ball was then enlarged upward and downward, thus making an oi)eniug four inches in length, crescentic in shape, with the concavity forward, and the soft tissues were separated from the boue. This oiiening was intended as part of the incision necessary in extracting the head of the femur, should that opera- tion become necessary, or as a free passage for sloughs and pus during after treatment. The examination disclosed a fracture just below the trochanters and almost horizontal. The upper fragment was tilted forward and a little outward by the action of the flexor and rotator muscles. No fracture, communicating with the joint, could be detected. Accordingly the operation was confined to the removal of foreign materials and loose fragments of bone, a number of which were extracted. No ligation was required. The wound was j)]ugged with lint saturated with a solu- tion of persulphate of iron. After the operation the ijatient remained for a long time unconscious, cold and almost pulseless, and when reaction set in, he was restless and appeared delirious. Opiates were given, but with little effect. He suffered from intense thirst until the large quantity of water drank brought on vomiting. The wounded limb was disturbed by severe spasms, for which bromide of potassium was given in ten-grain doses every half hour. At ten o'clock P. M. he became quiet, and died on May 9,1870, at 1 A. M. At the autopsy, a line of fracture was found extending into the hiiJ-joint, but owing to it being only a partial rent, I had failed to discover it at my first examination. Had I been aware of that fact at my first examination, I would have excised the joint, but very probably with the same result, as the patient doubtless died of nervous shock and ex- haustion. The fatal issue in the last five months of two such cases, both treated expectantly, as well as the recovery of Private Erne, at Fort ri-. 11. Upper third of right Larauiic, iu whose case excision was performed, suggest in my mind feniurfractiin'dby.T colloidal ball. , , ,,. - ij^i j.t ■ ■ ±. i Spec. 5m. Sect. i. A. M. Ji. the query whether, when the femur is shattered so near the joint, and the upper fragment with its pointed spicula is thrust among the mus- cles, nerves, and bloodvessels of tlie anterior part of the thigh, the patient would not be exposed to local irritation, muscular spasm, and secondary luemoiThage; in short, whetlier he would not stand a better chance of recovery if that fragment was extracted. At any rate, should he re- cover under the expectant treatment, it is very doubtful whether union would be very firm Avith