EEPORT OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 80 of tlie old abscesses were of an erysipelatous character, and formed above and below the knee, dis- charging a great quantity of purulent matter, which gradually became healthier. He evidently suffered from iiytemia, and an abscess of the right lung was suspected. The treatment consisted of tonics and stimulants. In January, 1807, he was doing well, and was able to sit up several hours each day. During this month the missile, or one and a quarter ounce lead slug, was ex- tracted, after which all the abscesses but one healed kindly. He gained strength daily until attacked with influenza. The ultimate termination of the case does not appear, but he most prob- ably recovered, as he does not appear upon the report of sick and wounded for February, 18G7. CCLXXVII.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Knee-Joint. By Ferdinand Axt, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. At Eattlesnake Station, Nevada, on September 16, 1867, Sergeant Patrick Corcoran, Co. D, 8th Cavalry, was shot through the upper part of the left knee, the ball entering on the outer side, and passing out on the inner side apparently through the anterior and upper segment of the inner condyle of the femur. He was conveyed to the hospital at Camp McDermit, Nevada, a distance of sixty miles, over a rough road. It was supposed, from the nature of the discharge, that the wound communicated with the knee-joint. The treatment in the case is not recorded. In November, 1868, Corcoran was returned to duty. CCLXXVIII.—Memorandum of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Knee-Joint. By J. V. D. Middleton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. At Austin, Texas, March 29, 1869, John Glascock, citizen prisoner, aged 30, shot himself, while being arrested, inflicting a wound of knee, involving the joint; the missile, a conoidal ball, lodged. He was admitted to the post hospital. Cold water dressings, poultices, carbolic acid and oil were a])plied. He was discharged from further treatment, October 17, 1869. Gunshot Wounds of the Leg.—The seven following reports describe gunshot fractures of the tibia in five instances, of the fibula in one, and of the tibia and fibula in one. All of the cases had favorable terminations. CCLXXIX.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Wounds of the Thigh and Leg. Condensed from detailed Eeports by Acting Assistant Surgeon Irving C. Eosse, M. D. Major George A. Forsyth, 9th Cavalry, received two severe and dangerous wounds, in a fight with Indians, at Dry Forks, Eepublican Eiver, Kansas, on September 17, 1868. The first wound was caused by a Henry rifle ball, which entered the left leg posteriorly about the centre, and, passing directly through, fractured and crushed the tibia on the aspect of entrance, transversely fracturing it anteriorly. The second wound was caused by a similar missile, which entered the right thigh at the outer anterior aspect at the juncture of the upper with the middle third, penetrated to the deep fascia, ranged thence upward and inward across the centre of Scarpa's triangle, and lodged deeply on the inner aspect of the thigh, severely contusing the right testicle. The circumstances attend- ing the wounded after this engagement were exceediugly unfavorable. They were not relieved until the evening of the ninth day after the fight ; the weather at first was very warm, and the men lay in the sand beside their dead horses, subjected to noisome gases and swarms of flies. Two cold, rainy nights occurred on the 22d and 23d ; they were without surgical attendance, dressing, &c., the surgeon having been killed in the fight;* and their only diet was the limited and offensive flesh of their dead animals. The dangerous nature of the wounds mentioned above rendered the drain upon ]\Iajor Forsyth more severe tlian on others. Ho was taken with other wounded to Fort Wallace, distant one hundred and thirty miles, the journey taking neai-ly four days. On arrival * John H. Moovo, Acting Assistant Surgeon, was mortally wounded at Arickaveo Fork of the Eepublicau Kiver, Septeuibor 17, 18G8, and died ou the luorniiig of September 20, lb68.—Ed.