153 AEROW-WOUNDS. CCG(JljX^X.—A[emoran(limi of a Case of Arroic-Wounds of the Thorax. Assistant Snrgeoii, U. S. A. " I send to the Army Medical Mnseuiu a specimen of an arrow-wound of the spine. It was taken from the body of a white man wlio was killed by Indians in 1869, at an outpost near Fort Concho, Texas. I found the man dead. There were extracted from his lungs and heart no less than four arrow-heads, and a fifth was impacted at the junction of the rib with the transverse process of the fourth dorsal vertebra. I removed the fourth and fifth vertebrfe and portions of the third and sixth, and forwarded them to the Army Medical Museum. The si)ecimeu shows the arrow-head impacted in the right transverse process of the fourth dorsal vertebra and posterior extremity of the rib. The wound does not intersect with the vertebral canal. I could learn no particulars of the case. Any one of the wounds of the thorax would have been fatal." (FiG. 29.) By William M. Notson, Tig. 29. Arrow iiiiijacted m the transverse process of tlie fourth dorsal vertebra. Spec. 5G73, Sect. I, A. M. il Arroiv-Wound of the Abdomen.—Three instances of penetrating wounds of the abdomen by arrows have been recorded among the cases of multiple wounds in an earlier portion of tliis section. Special reports were made of six other cases of this class. Of the nine cases seven were fatal, and in the two cases of recovery, there is room for doubt whether the arrow-head penetrated the peritouEeal sac The great fatality of arrow-wounds of tlie abdomen is well known, so well known to the Indians that. Dr. Bill tells us, they aim always at the umbilicus. Dr. Bill (loc. cit., p. 385) mentions that Mexicans are accustomed, when fighting Indians, to envelope the abdomen as the most vulnerable part in many folds of a blanket. CCCCLXXI.—i2ej9orf of an Arroic-Wound of the Ahdomen. By H. S. Kilbourne, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Samuel Brown, Troop F, 10th CavalTy, was wounded near Canadian River, Texas, December 2, 1868, by an arrow, which entered the abdomen in the left hypochondriac region, making a punctured wound three-quarters of an inch in length, through which about eighteen inches of the small intestine protruded. Tlie intestine was cut in four places. The wounds in the intestine were closed by sutui'e, and the protruding portion of the gut returned through the wound, which was enlarged for that purpose. When found, the rnan had lain out all night, and was in a state of collapse. He was carried along in an ambulance, but died on the second day, not having rallied from the shock of the injury. CCCCLXXII.—Note of a Fatal Arrotv- Wonnd involving the Liver., complicated hy Gunshot Injuries. By S. M. HoRTON, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Bugler Edwin L. Train, Troop D, 2d Cavalry, aged 17 years, was wounded at Fort Philip Kearney, Dakota Territory, June 11, 1807, in a fight with Indians. He received a gunshot fracture of tlie riglit arm, a gunshot wound in the left side of chest, and an arrow-wound of the liver. He was admitted to the post hospital. Several fragments of bone were removed from the right arm, and the arrow was extracted by forcing it tlirough the body. He died on June 12, 1867 CCCCLXXIII.—Mention of an Arroic- Wound hy ichich the Body teas Transfixed. By C. E. Goddard, Surgeon U. S. A. John Locke, an emx^loye of the sutler at Fort Rice, Dakota Territory, was accidentally wounded in February, 1868, by an arrow, which entered the back, three inches to the right of the 20