260 KEPOET OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. that lie liad been wouiulod at Petersburg, on April 2, 18G5, by a ball, the cicatrix of which was visible just above the pubis. A normal and paiidess evacuation occurred from both the bladder and the bowels half an hour after the reception of the wouud. Some days sid)se(piently he was taken to the Ilampton llospital, at Fort Monroe, where frequent and unavailiug ettbrts were made to find the ball. No urine ever i^assed through the wound, but eight pieces of bone (probably of the pubic bone) were removed at various times. At this -v isit to the "Home" his wound had healed, diflicult micturition having occurred simultaueonsly. A sound failed to reveal the presence of any extraneous substance in the bladder. In a few weeks he returned to say that the wound had reopeiied, and that in consequence he had experienced entire relief. Notliiug more was heard from him until July 13, ISGS, Avhen he was readmitted, the wound having closed and his old symptoius having grown worse. A foreign body was now readily detected by physical exploration, and the nrine was heavily, loaded with pus, and at times was bloody. On August 31st, the patient was cut for stone, and a vesical cal(!ulus removed, the nucleus of which was an iron ball. The incrustations consisted of uric acid and tripple phosphates, and the specimen, when recent, weighed one ounce and twenty-three grains, avoirdupois. The ball was part of a shrapnel,* and the incrustations w^ere chiefly on one side, giving it the shape of a cock's comb. The operation used was the one latelj" recommended by Sir William Fergusson, and consisted in making a su])erficial cut, as in Dupuytren's bi lateral method, viz, semicircular, the convexity forward half an inch in front of the anus, w ith the extremities of the wing§ equidistant between the anus and the ischium. When, in the dissection, the membranous portion of the urethra was reached, the cut was made as in the lateral. The incision described above is said to aftbrd more ample room for the fingers than the usual lateral cut. The only untoward feature of this case Avas, that although the urine began to flow wholly by the urethra as early as the tifteeuth day, there was, and still was at the date of this report (December 20, 1S08)) a fistulous track leading toward the bladder, but from which no urine came. The patient was healthy-looking, although he stated that there was still some pus in his urine. He had neither incontinence of urine nor irritable bladder, and was able to retain his urine for four or five hours. At the above date, he had left the "Home" in order to pursue his ordinary avocation. The specimen, which is represented in this wood-cut, (Fig. G3,) was con- tributed by the oi)erator. Fig. (;:!.—\ calfuhis, of wlncli an ii oii ball is the nucleus. Spec. 5520, Sect. I, A. M. M. DCCV.—Bemarl's on the Removal of a Vesical Calculus, the Nucleus of which icas an Iron Arrow- Sead. By W. H. Fokwood, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Litimore, a wild Indian, chief of the Kiowas, aged 42 years, applied to me at Fort Sill, Indian Territory, August, 1869, wdth symptoms of stone in the bladder. The following history Avas elicited: In the fall of 1862 he led a band of Kiowas against the Pawnee Indians, and was wounded in a fight near Fort Larned, Kansas. Being mounted and leaning over his horse, a Pawnee on foot and within a few paces drove an arrow deep into his right buttock. The stick was withdrawn by his companions, but the iron point remained in his body. He passed bloody urine immediately after the injury, but the wound soon healed, and in a few weeks he was able to hunt the buffalo without inconvenience. For more than six years he continued at the head of his band, and traveled on horseback from camp to camp, over hundreds of miles every summer. A long time after the injurj^ he began to feel distress in micturating, which steadily increased imtil he was "Fig. CA.—Vesical calculus of "which au arrow-head is the nucleus. Spec. 5931, I, A. M. M. ^The projectile known as shrapnel is a spherical case-shot containing leafl balls, to one of the small irou balls of a cauister-shot for a howitzer. The missile in question is similar