EXCISIONS OF THE BONES OF THE FOOT AND LEG. 227 EXCISIONS OF THE BONES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITIES. Excisions of the Bones of the Foot.—Two examples were reported. DOXXXIV.—Account of an Excision of a Portion of the Os Calcis. By W. B. DODS, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Charles Lorenzel, Co. A, 1st Cavalry, aged 20 years, was accidentally wounded at Camp Bidwell, California, November 3, 1806, by a Spencer carbine ball, which penetrated the heel, and glanced off from the calcaneum. He was admitted to the post hospital. Caries of the heel- portion of the calcaneum supervened, and on February 20, 1SG7, the sui)erior i)ortion of the calcaneum was excised through an incision three inches in length. Simple dressings were applied, and on March 30, 1867, the wound was perfectly healed. DCXXXV.—Memorandum relative to an Excision of Portions of the Bones of the Foot. By G. M. Sternberg, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Julius Edwards, Troop F, 10th Cavalry, aged 21 years, was accidentally wounded by a Spencer carbine ball, at Fort Riley, Kansas, January 21, 1868. The missile passed through the metatarso-phalangeal articulation of the left great toe, extensively comminuting the bones. He was admitted to the post hospital, and on March 1, 18G8, was rendered insensible by one part of chloroform and two of ether, when the phalanx and head of the metatarsal bone of the great toe were excised by a straight incision along the dorsum, and the toe-nail was removed. The periosteum was preserved as far as possible, for the reproduction of bone. About half of the wound united by first intention ; the remaining portion healed slowly, with profuse suppuration. An abscess which formed at the seat of the original wound, was opened March 25th, and March 31, 1868, the wound was nearly healed. The patient was returned to duty in April, 1868. Excisions in the Bones of the Leg.—Reports of two cases were furnislied. DCXXXVI.—Account of an Excision of a Portion of the Fibula. By Jui.ES Le Carpentier, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Waddie Hostler, Co. D, 38th Infantry, aged 19 years, being apprehended as a deserter at Fort Bayard, New Mexico, on July 10, 1868, was shot in the left leg, a conoidal ball taking effect in the middle third, fracturing the fibula, splitting thereon, and making its exit by two tracks. Being admitted to the hospital in a state of collapse, four hours after the injury, about an hour was allowed for reaction to take place, when insensibility was produced by ether and chloroform, and the wound thoroughly examined. It was found necessary to excise about three and a half inches of the fibula, which was badly comminuted. The i^eroneal artery, which was found injured in several places by splinters, was tied above and below the wound. Little blood was lost during the operation, and the patient recovered well from the ansESthesia. An anodyne was administered, and he passed a good night. During the day of the 11th, he was restless and somewhat strange in conduct, refusing to take food toward the evening, when the anodyne was repeated, and a quiet night was passed. On the 12th, pus apiieared upon the li^is of the woiind; he again refused food, and had a vacant look. About noon, a peculiar choking noise drew the attention of the nurse, who found him dead. At the autopsy, twenty-two hours after death, rigor mortis was well marked; decomposition was going on ra|iidly, and the abdomen was distended with flatus. An examination of the chest showed the pericardium distended and thickened, adherent in places to ventricles and auricles, and containing about ten fluid-ounces of bloody serum; heart rather large (weighing eleven ounces), heavily coated with fat, walls hypertrophied, and very soft and flaccid, i^articularly those of the right ventricle; fatty degeneration well marked of chordre tendinai, and the upper part of the right ventricle, and adherent to the serous membrane of the right ventricle, among the chordse tendinte, was a large fibrinous clot, weighing nearly six drachms, attached to which was an irregular rope-like yellow cord, three-eighths of an inch wide and one-eighth of an inch thick, extending into the pulmonary artery about six inches; the