KEMOVAL OF TUMOES. 267 of tlie Museum, tlie geueral similarity of the structural details of the several growths found, iu XQvy diftereut organs, deserves attention. The tumor between the stomach and the spleen was evidently of recent origin and rapidly growing. Its relation to its chief blood-vessels probably accounts for the manifest atrophy of the spleen, which was only three inches long by two and a half broad. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, J. J. WOODWAED, Assistant Surgeon U. 8. A. Surgeon Basil Nokkis, U. S. A. DCCXIV.—Remarks on the Removal of a Fibroid Growth from the Left Breast. By Henry McEldeury, Assistant Surgeon U. S. A. James Johnston, Sergeant Co. C, 15th Infantry, was admitted to hospital, August 12, 1868, ■with a fibroid tumor of the left breast. The patient, a large and a well-developed man of the sanguine temperament, stated that the tumor first made its appearance during September, 1805, while he w^as working at his trade, boot and shoe making. Ilis attention was first called to the enlargement by a burning ijain in the left chest; and he then, on examination, noticed the growth. From that time until the present, the tumor has gradflally increased in size. He does not experi- ence i)ain in the growth, except when the chest becomes constricted from any cause. Has not been able to wear his suspender on the left side, nor to carry his knapsack on this account. Has a sister, who, when about eight or nine years old, liad a hard tumor on the right eyebrow, which was removed by a surgeon, and has not since returned. The remainder of the family are all healthy, and have never had any tumors of any kind. August 12,1808. The tumor is movable and rather flat; measuring two inches and one quarter, in length, and two inches in width; lying immediately beneath the left nipple, superficial to the pec- toralis major muscle ; its diameter corresponding with the direction of the fibres of that muscle; com- plains of pain when the surface beneath the nipple is pinched ; pinching the base or sides of the tumor gives no pain or uneasiness. There is no retraction of the nipple, nor lymijhatic involvement; no enlargement of the subcutaneous veins; generalhealth of the patient excellent. As the patient was anxious to have the tumor removed, its excision was performed August 12th, iiarts brought together with, interrupted silken sutures, and ichthiocolla plaster. One grain of morphine was given hypodermically, after operation. August 13th, slept well during night, and complains of no pain. Three comijound cathartic pills were prescribed. Did well until August 15th, when the wound began to assume a gangrenous appearance, and a small quantity of foetid, reddish, purulent fluid was discharged. Sutures were removed, and the parts well touched with liquor of perman- ganate of potash, no adhesion having taken place. The solution of permanganate salts was applied twice daily, until August 18th, when the gangrenous appearance had entirely disappeared. The edges of the wound were then broiaght together by isinglass plaster. The parts rapidly healed, and the patient was returned to duty September 28th, having no jiain in or about the cicatrices. Miscroscopical appearance of the juice of the growth, immediately after the operation; numerous round uninucleated cells, about the' size of blood cells, with fat and blood cells, and occasionally fragments of fibrous tissue, were the only elements observed in the field of the micro- scope. The growth appeared, on section, of a whitish color, tough and gristly feel, and had all the appearance of condensed fibrous tissue. Weight, fifteen drachms. It has been ijreserved in proof spirit, for transmission to the Army Medical Museum. DCCXV.—Report of an Encysted Timor of the Bade. By H. S. Schell, Assistant Sui'geon, U. S.A. John A. Batt, a private of Troop I, 2d Cavalry, aged 54 years, was being treated iu quarters at Fort Laramie, Dakota Territory, for a cystic sebaceous tumor situated between the scapuUe. This