249 OPERATIONS ON THE CHEST. DCLXXXIl.—Report of a Case of TItomceiiiesls. Jiy J). Bacite, Snrgoon, IT. S. A. At San Antonio, Texas, May 0, 1809, liicliard Elliott, private, Co. 11, Otli Cavalry, aged 24, received an incised and punctured wound of the left brest by a knife. He was admitted to hos- pital from cauip on May 7tli. Paracentesis thoracis on the left side, was perfcmned for empyema on June 12th. He was discharged from service March 24,1870, because of empyema, partial collapse of the lung, and great impairment of respiratory power. Operations on the Chest.—Instances of removal of fragments of ribs and of "her- metically sealing" wounds, after gunshot injuries of the thorax, have been detailed on pp. 27, 28, ante, and a case of excision of a necrosed portion of rib is described on p. 131. Reports were received of two other cases which may be placed in this category. DCLXXXIir.—N'ote of a Case in wliich Fragments of the Ribs irere removed, with Remarl's on the After Treatment. By G. C. Douglas, M. D. Acting Assistant Surgeon. George Christopher, a private of Troop L, 9th Cavalry, was malicionsly shot by another soldier at Fort Duncan, Texas, on September 19, 1870. The missile causing the injury was a conoidal ball, which fractured and comminuted the fourth, fifth, and sixth rios of the right side, and, in its course, destroyed a portion of the pleura costalis. On being admitted to the hospital, nnmerous small fragments of the ribs, amounting in all to quite a handful, were removed; the wound was dressed with a weak solution of carbolic acid and alcohol, and adhesive strips were applied in order to control the movements of the tliorax, but were constantly loosened by the effusion from the wound. The injury did well until October IGth, and had nearly closed, permitting the patient to move about the ward without inconvenience; his general health was excellent. But at that date a rain and wind storm prevailed, and ho evidently took cold, which resulted in an attack of pleurisy of the wounded side, extending to substance of lung, accompanied with profuse hemoi)ty- sis and effusion into the i)leural cavity, causing the wound to reopen when dependent, or when the patient was in the horizontal position. On the 18th he commenced to respire through the wound, the air passing freely both in and out. The discharge and expectoration were exceedingly offensive. The patient sank rapidly, being almost moribund by October 20th. Stimulants, beef-tea, and other articles of extra diet suitable to his condition were administered. In addition to this, he com- menced taking, on the 20th, in as large quantities as his appetite craved, the raw, clear muscle of fresh beef, pounded to a soft pulp and seasoned to suit his taste. Eelishing the beef, he ate freely of it during the twenty-four hours of the day. The liquid portion pressed out after ijouuding was also given as a change. The iniured side of thorax was protected with a large plaster of simple cerate having an opening over the wound. This was covered with oakum, which was kept constantly saturated with a strong solution of carbolic acid, with a view to impregnate the air entering the cavity containing the effused liquid, and to effuse the surface with the antiseptic. The offensive odor speedily disappeared, the effusion rapidly diminished, and, by the 24th there was no disagreeable odor to the discharge. On the 27th, the discharge through the wound had ceased, the wound was rapidly closing, the remaining effusion into the jileural cavity was gradually absorbing and the patient was well enough to walk around the ward. The effect of the raw beef and its essence was as immediate and marked as a full dose of alcoholic stimulant, and had the advantage of being more permanent. To this aud the introduction of the antiseptic into the pleural cavity, the patient's recovery is attributed. DCLXXXIV.—Account of a Gunshot Wound of the Chest, Treated hy the Method of ^^Hermetically Sealing.''^ By P. Middleton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John Lee, Troop B, 8th Cavalry, aged 24, was shot in the left breast at Camp Whipple, Arizona Territory, Xovember 19, 1867. The ball entered below the left clavicle, two inches from the sternum, and, passing through the chest and scapula, emerged over the infraspinatus muscle, just below the spine of the scapula. He was sent to the post hospital in a state of syncope. Six hours after admission, venous hfemorrhage occurred until the patient fainted. The wound was 32