EEPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 112 developed. In dissecting np the scalp, some congestion was found over the temporal muscle, as if it had been contused, but there was nothing whatever to indicate it externally. Upon removing the calvarium a clot of blood weighing three ounces was discovered between the bone and dura mater, over and at the side of the middle lobe of the right hemisi)here of the brain; there were also spots of extravasation between the dura mater and arachnoid, at the upper iiart of both hemi- spheres over the middle lobes, presenting the appearance as if encysted. The brain at the seat of the large clot presented the appearance of being contused and disorganized by the pressure upon it; with this exception the brain substance appeared normal throughout. There was a fracture of the base of the skull, beginning at the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, extending posteriorly to the body of the lesser wing of the sphenoid where it branched, one branch extending to tlie optic foramen of the left side, and the other taking a course indicated by the optic foramen, the foramen rotundum, and the foramen ovale, and then posterior to the foramen spinosnm of the right side, curving around it, and, wlien at a point one inch external to it, again branched, one branch extending forward through the squamous portion of the temporal bone and across the anterior inferior angle of the parietal into the frontal, ending at a point one inch anterior to the jnnction of the lower with the middle third of the fronto-parietal suture, the other posteriorly in a line between the squamous and petrous portion of the temporal bone and then into the parietal bone parallel to the occipito parietal suture and ending at a point two inches anterior to the posterior superior angle of the right parietal. This fracture in its course involved both tables of the skull, and divided the grooves in which run both the anterior and posterior branches of the middle meningeal artery. The large clot formed at the side of the brain was cansed by the rupture of the anterior branch. It was moulded and flattened by pressure, and seemed as if covered by a membrane, ren- dering it tough. The smaller clots api^eared to be caused by the rapture of minute veins ramify- ing in the dura mater. The thoracic and abdominal viscera were healthy throughout, excepting the spleen, which was considerably hypertrophied and somewhat indurated. The intestines were much distended with semi-fluid substances. CCCLXXIV.—Report of a Case of Concussion of the Sjnnal Cord. By Henet Lippincott, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Surgeon A. F. Mechem, U. S. A., was accidentally injured at Hays City, Kansas, June 21, 1870, by jumping from a railway train while in motion. The fall caused partial concussion of the spinal cord, and violent shock to the sympathetic nervous system. When seen, shortly afterwards, by a medical officer, slight reaction had taken place; but there was extreme hypenesthesia of the chest, neck, and ui)per extremities, which were of a cyanotic hue. The cerebral functions were undisturbed. The heart's action, almost suspended when first seen, came up under the influence of stimulants. When reaction had fjiirly taken place, there was violent arterial action at the wrist, which was unaccompanied by like action in the temporal and carotid arteries; in fact, the action of these vessels coincided neither in force nor frequencj^ with that of the radial and ulnar arteries. Nor was the action of the heart, at any time after the pulsations became normal, other than healthy, although the extraordinary throbbing at the wrist continued several days. Excepting slight paralysis of the bladder, there was no loss of motor power. At first, the terrible hyperiies- thesia of the hands and arms inclined me to the belief that there might be a fracture, dislocation, or something of this kind, which, by pressure upon the nerves, might possibly account for the symp- toms described. However, a careful exajuination i>roved that there was neither fracture nor dislocation, but that the cause of the symptoms was only to be found in the spinal cord and sym- l>athetic nervous system. The effect of the previous medication proving inefficient, morphine was administered hypodermically, and afforded much relief. This Avas soon repeated, selecting the region of the fourth dorsal vertebra for the operation. The application of cui)s, with liot applica- tions of lead and laudanum, alternating with fomentations of liops and laudanum to the arms, hands, and thoi'ax, assisted materially in mitigating the pain of the parts imi)licated. Some three days subse(iuent to the reception of the injury, the patient was conveyed on a litter to liis quarters- at I'^ort Hays. Arriving there, tlie use of the m()r[)liine was in a great measure (lisi)ensed witli, Indian hemi) and hyoscyauuis being substituted. The hop fomentations were superseded by local