217 AMPUTATION OF ALL FOUE LIMBS. some swelliug-, and were fairly circiiiriscribed. No evacuation of the bowels having taken place since December 9th, and the patient suffering from singultus and constant pain in epigastric region, a light cathartic was administered, which, in twenty-four hours, gave relief. A mild but nourishing and stimulating diet was given, which, in a week's time, improved his condition. The four frozen limbs were enveloped in cloths moistened with a solution of chloride of zinc. The frozen ears and cheeks healed in due time, and presented nothing remarkable. The gangrenous parts of the nose separated on January G, 186G, aiul soon healed, with the loss of the tip of the nose and parts of the alae, leaving the septum somewhat exposed. On January 10th, the lines of demarcation on all four limbs and the patelljB were distinct and deep. A most offensive smell was emitted, in spite of the liberal use of disinfectants ; notwithstanding this the patient obstinately opposed operative inter- ference, being strongly seconded by his wife. On January 13th, the patient, after a little hesitancy, consented to the amputation of the arms. By this tiuie the lines of demarcation had exposed the bones, and as the patient refused the administration of,an aufesthetic, and his debilitated condition not admitting the loss of blood, it Was determined to carefully dissect as much healthy flesh from the radius and ulna as the line of demarcation would admit without cutting any blood-vessels, and then saw through the bones. This was successfully done on both fore-arms, in middle third, the patient losing very little blood, and complaining of hardly any pain. The great relief afforded by this operation so changed his former aversion to being operated on, that on the next day, he begged to have both legs amputated in the same manner, which was done, three days afterward, and with the same favorable results. In this case, the four stumps could not be covered with sufficient skin, and much had to be left to self-reparation, which took place to an extraordinary extent, keeping even step with the gradual improvement of the unfortunate's condition. The four stumps healed over with healthy granulations, requiring the removal of only two pieces of bone, one from the right tibia, and one from the left ulna, which separated on April 17th and 22d respectively. After applications of diluted nitric acid, the conical stumps soon became covered with a solid cicatrix. Meanwhile, the open sores over the patelhie on both knees, which became as large as the palm of a hand, after the separation of the gangrenous parts, had undergone cicatrization. They, however, reopened in a fistulous manner about the middle of April, and it was found that in both of the patellse large sequestrte had formed. A longitudinal incision was made over the right patella, and a large portion of the front part of this bone was easily removed. Another portion was also removed from the left iiatella, but with more difficulty. Both knees readily healed, leaving the patelhie anchylosed. The patient was mixstered out of service with his company on April 28, 18C6; but remained ixnder treatment until June 19, 1806, when he left for his home, perfectly recovered. The same year. Congress passed a special act pensioning him for total disability. The pathological specimens, with history, were contributed to the Army Medical Museum by the operator, and are numbered 1711, Surgical Section and consists of four exfoliations. Dr. MuUer expresses the belief that the patient can never make use of artificial limbs. Of the two liundred and fifty-one cases of amputations cited in tlie foregoing reports, twenty-five resulted fatally ; one hundred and fort3^-three were due to gunshot wounds ; eight to railway accidents ; nine to incised wounds ; forty-five to other injuries ; forty-one to frost-bites ; and five to diseases. Setting aside the one hundred and thirty-six successful operations on the fingers and toes, there remain one hundred and fifteen major amputations, with a mortality rate of 21.7—a very favorable exhibit. Sixty-three of these major amputations were primary, twenty-seven were intermediary, and twenty-five were secondary. The death rate in these classes was, for once, almost uniform, being- primary 22.2, intermediary 22.2, secondary 20. This circumstance is explained partly by the small number of cases analysed, and partly by the proportion of severe cases included in the primary class. Among the major amputations not less than seventeen were multiple amputations : of fore-arms, 2 ; of arm and fore-arm, 4 ; of feet, 3 ; of legs, 4 ; of leg and foot, 2 ; of thigh and leg, 1 ; of four extremities, 1 ; with three fatal results only. 28