EEPOET OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 54 stomacli. Three to five drops of chloroform were giren everj' ten minutes, arresting for a short time the hiccough. The warm applications were continued. 3d: He is gradually sinking; nothing- remains in his stomach five minutes at a time. Treatment continued. 4th: He is aware that he cannot recover, and requests particularly that no autopsy shall be made. He died at 11 A. M., on December 5,1867. CLXIX.—Minute of a Fatal Gunshot Woiind of the Pelvis. By John J. Hulse, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Sergeant John McDougall, Co. H, 4th United States Cavalry, was wounded near Fort Mason, Texas, on November 14, 1867, while endeavouring to suppress an affray between a party of soldiers and desperadoes. The missile, a pistol ball, entered the right ilium, wounding the bladder, and lodged in the pelvis. He was admitted to the United States post hospital at Fort Mason. His death took place from internal hiemorrhage, on November 14, 1867. CLXX.—Note of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Pelvis. By Milton A. EoACH, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Timothy O'Shanghnessy, Co. E, 15th United States Infixntry, aged 27 years, was ■wounded on August 24, 1868, by a pistol ball, which entered the right hip at crest of ilium, passed obliquely downward and lodged. He was admitted from boat while en route with his regiment to Marshall, Texas, on the same day, to the United States Army post hospital at Shreveport, Louisiana. Simple dressings were used, and the ball was removed from seat of lodgement, one inch from the right side of the anus, previously to admission to hospital. He was returned to duty on September 4, 1868. CLXXI. Report of a Gunshot Woimd of the Abdomen^ in a Patient tcitli Chronic Orchitis. By H. E. TiLTON, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Patrick W , Troop D, 2d United States Cavalry, while confined in the guard-house at Fort Lyon, Colorado Territory, was wounded February 25, 1868, by the accidental discharge of a Spencer rifle. The missile having passed through the side of the frame guard-house, and the left arm of a prisoner, entered the right thigh of Wogan, six inches below the anterior superior spinous l^rocess, passed under Poupart's ligament, two inches from the anterior superior spinous process, and lodged in the left iliacus muscle; he was in a sitting posture at the time of the reception of the injury. He was immediately carried to the hospital, and complained of intense pain in the abdo- men, which was partially controlled by morphia in one half-grain doses. In the course of the evening he voided his urine, Avliich was natural in color. He vomited several times. His pulse increased to 100, with tumultuous action of the heart. He passed a very uncomfortable night, having to be frequently propped up in bed to get his breath ; pulse scarcely perceptible at wrist. Heart beating rapidly and with little force. Death resulted at nine o'clock of the morning of February 26, 1868. An autopsy was made six hours subsequently. On opening the abdomen a great quantity of bloody serum escaped; large clots of blood were found in the hypogastric region, and there was general peritonitis. The ball was found in the left iliac fossa, just above the external iliac artery; by tracing its course it was found to have passed four times through the small intestines, making seven open- ings, three times through the mesentery and once through the mesocolon. Wogan had suffered a long time with gonorrhoeal orchitis of the left testicle. The tunica vaginalis was found considerably thickened and adherent to the lower portion of the testicle, while there was hydrocele of the cord. There were also two abscesses in the lower portion of the testicle, a part of which adjacent to the ei)ididymis and to the abscesses having undergone fibroid degeneration. The testicle was forwarded to the Ami}' IMedical Museum. fits pathological condition is imperfectly represented in the adjoining wood-cut.—Ed. I Fn. 0. Testis enlarged and indurated by inflammation. It is laid open to show the cliicsy abscesses tliat have fi)rnu-d. Si>ec. 5720, Sec. I. A. M. M. [Half tbc natural size.)