241 LIGATIONS m THE LOWER EXTEEMITY. or thin serum. These lijeuiorrliages were undoubtedly venous, and it also appeared as if the blood were eifused some hours into the tissues of the thigh, before its debris escaped from the wound. The hfemorrhages were not alarming until a day or two before March 23d, when they became more copious, and the patient sinking from their effects, it was determined to lay open the parts and search for the wounded vessel, which was believed to be the femoral vein. On March 22d, a number of medical gentlemen being x)resent, the patient was ordered upon the operating table. In bringing him from his bed to the table, on a stretcher, a most profuse arterial haimorrhage occurred, evidencing that the femoral artery had given way. I compressed the artery, below Poupart's ligament, with my thumb, while Dr. Schuppert ligated the external iliac artery just above Poupart's ligament. This measure arrested the hnemorrhage instantly, and it did not recur. After the ligation, a free incision was made from the wound upward, in tlie direction of the crest of the ilium, and the finger being used to explore the cavity, passed upward to the crest of the ilium, under the tensor vaginae muscle. The finger could also be passed in front of the femur and around it, through openings in the adductor muscle, so as to ascertain the presence of a large cavity filled with coagnla and serum, all of which were washed out with a syringe. Death resulted in a short time. The post-mortem examination revealed a cavity of the capacity of a pint, occasioned by the tearing up of the connected tissues of the muscles of the thigh from the middle third to gluteal and Poupart's ligament. The same cavity was continuous with one made by separating the peritoneum from the back part of the pelvis in right side, as far as the bifurcation of the iliac. The external iliac had a perfectly formed thrombus, extending to the bifurcation. The most interesting result of the examination was the demonstration that the ball must have entered while the thigh was flexed upon the pelvis, passed in such direction as to open the hip-joint and knock off a fragment of the cotyloid rim, on its inner and lower side; it then passed through the thyroid opening and lodged just behind the acetabulum. The cartilages of the head of the femur and of the cotyloid cavity^ had entirely disappeared, leaving the bones denuded and rough. The ligamentum teres had disappeared. From the direction of the balls either could have wounded the femoral vessels, or rather injured them so that a subsequent slough caused them to give away 5 the femoral vein first by a small oijening and the artery afterward. Ligations of the Arteries of the Lower Ejctremity.—Eight special reports relate : four to the femoral, one to the external, and one to the posterior circumflex, one to the tibial and peroneal, and one to the arteria dorsalis pedis. DOLXI.—Account of a Ligation of the Femoral Artery. By W. B. Butcher, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Corporal Henry Oheesely, Oo. 1,114th Colored Troops, aged 29, was accidentally wounded at Fort Mcintosh, Texas, December 18,1860, by a conoidal pistol ball, which entered two inches below Pou- part's ligament, and passing inward, downward and backward, emerged upon the inner part of the thigh, three inches below point of entrance, iniuring the femoral artery one-half inch below the pro- funda. Upon being admitted to hospital he was very faint from excessive loss of blood. Four hours after the reception of injury the wound of entrance was enlarged by incision, while the patient was under the influence of ether; the tourniquet was applied and the femoral artery ligated, above and below the seat of injury. The wound of exit was then enlarged to favor drainage. December 31, 1866: the patient was doing well, and was returned to duty February 28, 1867. DCLXII.—Note relative to a Ligation of the Femoral Artery. By Surgeon Leonaed F. Russell, 4th U. S. Veteran Volunteers. Private David Jones, Oo. E, 4th Infantry, was wounded at Fort Sully, Dakota Territory, on March 7, 1866, by a soldier who made a thrust with a large bread knife, which entered the thigh transversely about three inches above the inner condyle of the femur, and passing almost through, severed the popliteal artery and vein, and nerve. Hnemorrhage was controlled by compression, 31