235 LIGATION OF AETEEIES. LIGATIONS. Ligations.—Abstracts of twenty-seven instances of ligations of the larger vessels were furnished. The operations were required in four cases of punctured, seven incised, and four lacerated wounds, in twelve cases of gunshot wounds, and in two cases of aneurism. Seven cases resulted fatally. Ligations of Arteries of the Head and Neck.—Special reports were made of six examples of ligations of these vessels; viz., three of the temporal, one of the facial, one— a fatal case—of ligation of the thyroid, and a successful ligation of the common carotid. DCXLII.—Note on a Ligation of the Temporal Artery. By H. S. Schell, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A Private Patrick Toole, Troop H, 2d Cavalry, aged 35, was kicked by a liorse at Fort Laramie, Dakota Territory, on November 16,1867, the effect of wbich was a lacerated wound of tlie scalp with punctured fracture of the frontal bone. He was taken to the post hospital, where both ends of the temporal artery were ligated. He recovered, and was returned to duty in December, 1867. DOXLIII.—Minute of a Case of Ligation of the Temporal Artery. By J. F. Weeds, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Jacob Wall, a teamster of the Quartermaster's Department, aged 32, was admitted to the post hospital at Albuquerque, New Mexico, January 3, 1866, with a lacerated wound in the anterior temporal region, caused by a blow from the butt-end of a Colt's revolver. The temi)oral artery was severed and the pericranium exposed. On the same day I ligated both ends of the artery and closed the wound with sutures. The patient recovered rapidly, and was returned to duty January 16, 1866. DCXLIV.—Note relative to a Ligation of the Transverse Facial Artery. By Harvey. E. Beown, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Corporal Frank Sachse, Co. F., 17th Infantry, aged 27 years, received a lacerated wound of the right cheek, at Galveston, Texas, on November 20,1868, for which he was admitted to the post hospital. The wound extended from angle of mouth transversely across the cheek two inches, the transverse facial artery being severed. The artery was ligated. On November 26th the ligature came away; the wound was closed by silver sutures, and healed by first intention. The final result of this operation was favorable, and the patient was returned to duty on November 29, 1868. DCXLV.—Minute of a Case in irhich Smmorrhage from the Temporal Artery teas controlled by Ligation. By J. F. M. FORWOOD, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Hospital Steward Charles Elvers, Co. B, 20th Infantry, aged 22, received, on March 1, 1868, at Alexandria, Louisiana, accidentally, a lacerated wound of the head, and was admitted to the