184 EEPOKT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. arm, comiiletely aliattering tlie Lumerus and teariug tlie soft structures. Dr. F. nalliilay, on November 3, 1SG6, near Lawrence, Kansas, amputated the arm; internal and external tiaps, and four ligatures were applied. On November lltb he was admitted to tbe post hospital at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. The wound was witliout dressing, the flaps everted and insufficient, and the bone jirotruding. I immediately administered chloroform, and excised one inch of bone, revivified the flaps, and ai)plied iron wire sutures. The patient reacted well, and on November 28, 18G0, Avhen he left on a leave of absence, his wound was entirely healed up, with the exception of a small space where the principal ligature x)rotruded. This officer was retired November 5, 1868. DXXXII.—Report of an Amputation of the Arm for Railway Injury. By W. H. Eenick, M, D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private David Linton, Co. B, 7th Cavalry, was run over by railroad cars at or near Willow Springs, Colorado Territory, on the night of August 1, 1870. The wheels passed obliquely across the right arm, completely destroying the elbow-joint. Both bones of the fore-arm were crushed, and a longitudinal fractiire extended up the shaft of the humerus, almost to the junction of the upper thirds. One hour after the injury, the patient being chloroformed, the arm was ampu- tated at the junction of the upper thirds, by the circular operation. Cold-water di-essings were api)lied, and occasionally a solution of permanganate of potash. On August 12th the sutures were removed, the patient was allowed the limits of the camp, and on August 17th, he w'as taken to Fort Lyon. On October 30th, he was sent to the hospital at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, at whicli date one ligature yet remained in the stumj); his general health was good. He was discharged the ser- vice on December 7, 1870. DXXXIII.—Remarls on a Frimnry Amputation of tlie Arm for GnnsJiot Injury. By W. B. Lyon, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. William McDermith, a gold miner, aged 32 years, on the evening of December 6th, 1870, carelessly grasped the muzzle of a shot-gun, which discharged a large load of number-three shot into his left fore-arm. The charge entered the anterior aspect, four inches above the wrist-joint, severed the belly of the flexor carpi-ulnaris, ranged upward along the course of the ulnar artery, and produced a comminuted fracture of the condyles of the humerus, opening the elbow-joint, and an oblique fracture of the shaft. The soft tissues of the upper fore-arm and lower fourth of the arm, especially on the ulnar side, were so completely disorganized as to be almost unrecognizable. The ulnar artery and nerve were entirely destroyed, and the radial artery was severed near its source. A few shot escaped through a small exit-wound posteriorly, one inch and a half above the upper extremity of the ulna, and three separate exit-wounds from single shot were found three inches above. Copious Inemorrhage occurred immediately after receiving the wound, spontaneously subsiding on the patient's assuming a recumbent position. He was admitted to the hospital at Fort McRae, New Mexico, where, seventeen hours after the reception of the wound, he was chloroformed, and the arm was amputated through the middle third by the circular operation. The stump was dressed with a weak solution of carbolic acid. The wound united mainly by first intention, and progressed favorably throughout. The pathological specimen, with the history, was contributed to the Army Medical Museum, and is numbered 5758 of the Surgical Section. DXXXIY.—RemarTcs on an Amputation of the Arm. By J. C. Baily, Surgeon, TJ. S. A. Private Peter Mclntyre, Co. K, 23d Infantry, aged 35 years, was wounded while on provost guard duty in San Francisco, California, on October 1, 1870, by a conoidal musket ball, which was fired by a burglar at the distance of a few feet, and which entered the arm anteriorly, two inches above the elbow-joint, fracturing the humerus, and implicating the joint, but left the vessels unin- jured. He remained in the city with but little attention until the afternoon of the 3d, when he was sent to the post hospital at the Presidio. On the next day, the patient being feverish and the arm