139 DISLOCATIONS. Dislocations.—Six hundred and twenty-five cases of luxation of joints appear upon the returns for the loeriod covered by this report; but special histories were forwarded in a few instances only. Dislocations of the Vertebrce.—Histories of two fatal cases of luxation of the cervical vertebrae were received. COCOXLII.—Memorandum of a Case of Luxation of the Atlas on the Axis. By J. K. Walsh, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Lieutenant Justinian Alman, Trooi) I, 4th Cavalry, was killed March 17, 1868, in a collision between the boat in which he was returning to town (Jeiferson, Texas) and the steamboat J. M. Sharpe. He was struck the i)addles of the wheel and carried under. His body w^as once thrown to the surface by the eddies of the water, and then sank. Every eftbrt was made to secure his remains, but without avail, until the sixth day after the disaster, when the body, in a very advanced stage of decomposition, rose to the surface. The remains were buried the following day, in the Hebrew Cemetery, in compliance with the wish of his family. An autopsy revealed a dislocation of the atlas upon the second cervical vertel»ra, with rupture of the transverse ligament, and the odontoid process impinging upon the spinal mari'ow. CCCCXLIII.—Report on a Dislocation of the Fifth Cervical Vertebra. By C. C. Gray, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A, On the morning of February 10, 18GG, I was called to see Private John F , Co. B, Ud Infantry, who was reported badly hurt by a fall. I found the patient, a muscular, powerful, Ger- man, aged 35, laying upon a table in the company kitchen ; face pale, respira- tion sighing; pulse slow and full. It appeared that about ten minutes before he had invited the bystanders to witness a gymnastic feat. A few yards awaj- the ground was thickly- littered with short straw which had been emptied from bed-sacks. Starting toward this straw he ran a few steps and bounding two or three feet into the air, attempted to throw a somersault without touching hands or head. Although accustomed to perform this exploit, he from some cause failed upon this occasion ; instead of alighting upon his feet, his head struck the earth, and he rolled over upon his side and lay motionless. As he did not arise his comrades approached and found him in the condition before mentioned. Upon examination, T found that sensation and power of motion were alike wanting from the neck downward. The walls of the chest were motionless and respiration was effected by the diaphragm alone. He was unable to raise his head, but moved it freely from side to side. In attempting to examine the ^ „ ^ . ' 1 » YlG. 21. Luxation oi neck, it was necessary to lift the head from the table, which movement caused the fifth upon the fourth so much distress that I was obliged to desist. I however discovered, as cervical vertebra, spec. I thought, a slight but unusual depression immediately below the spinous pro- cess of the fourth or fifth cervical vertebra. The patient was conveyed to the regimental hospital and placed upon a hard mattress, all pillows having been removed. Assistant Surgeon S. H. Hor- ner, U. S. A., was called in consultation, and we endeavored to ascertain the nature and extent of the injury. By carefully supporting the head, the patient was turned partially upon his side and a clear view of the posterior parts of the neck obtained. The examination was very unsatisfactory, for so thick were the layers of muscle and fat that the usual landmarks, the spinous processes, were confused, and we were unable to arrive at a positive diagnosis. It was clear, however, that there was an abnormal gap or depression between the spinous processes of the fourth and fifth or fifth and sixth cervical vertebra;; that pressure at this point of depression gave slight i)aiii; that there was an absence of crepitus, and that the movements of the head upon the atlas, and of the