45 GUNSHOT WOraDS OF THE ABDOMEN. CXXXVI.—Memormidtim of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Jejunum. By H. A. DuBois, Assistant Surgeon, and D. C. Peteks, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Antoine Seeberger, Troop F, 3d United States Cavalry, aged 28 years, was admitted to post hospital at Camp Union, New Mexico, June 30,1867, witli a penetrating gunshot wound of the abdojnen. The missile, a conoidal ball, entered midway between the umbilicus and the border of the costal cartilages, left side, and emerged two and a half inches on the left side of the spinous process and at the lower margin of the ribs. Hypodermic injections of morphia were tried, but the patient died July 1,1867. At the 2yost-mortem examination the ball was found to have pierced the jejunum in the left lumbar region, and to have grazed the left kidney. The portion of the small intestine above the point of injury contrasted Avith the iiortiou below, which was contracted and pale. CXXXYII.—Note of a Case of Traumatic Peritonitis. By Theodore Atwood, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private William Linnahan, Co. I, 7th United States Infantry, aged 21 years, received a wound of the abdomen from a slug while on patrol duty February 22, 1869. He was admitted to the i)OSt hospital at Jacksonville, Florida, on the same day, and died of traumatic peritonitis, February 25, 1869. CXXXVIII.—BemarJcs on a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Ileum. By F. W. Elbkey, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Franklin A. Dennis, Co. 1,5th Cavalry, accidentally shot himself on the 5th of November, while with an expedition to the forks of the Eepublican Kiver, and died half an hour after the occurrence. The expedition being on its return to Fort McPherson, Nebraska, and distant only one day's march, the body was transported for interment there. The autopsy, which was made at the post hospital, showed that a carbine ball had entered the right iliac region, iserforatiog in its course the ileum two inches from the ileo-ctecal valve, and the external iliac vein near Poupart's ligament. It then struck the body of the pubic bone, which it fractured, and, being thence deflected, took its course along the inner side of the right leg and lodged at the side of the tendo Achilles. CXXXIX.—BemarJcs on a Case of Gunshot Wound of the AMomen. By D. Weisel, Assistant Sur- geon, U. S. A. Private Anderson Merryweather, 9th United States Cavalry Band, was shot by parties unknown on October 14, 1870, at Fort Davis, Texas, from the effects of which he died Octo- ber 16, 1870. Upon examination, immediately after the receipt of injury, it was found that he had been shot by a small bullet, which had entered the abdomen at and penetrating the pos- terior part of the crest of the left ilium, passing upward and outward and lodging upon the anterior portion of the ensiform cartilage, from which it was extracted by cutting down upon it. The next day the patient complained of severe pain and soreness of the bowels with the abdomen much swollen, and upon going to stool the pain was intense, with large quantities of blood passing from him. An autopsy upon his body, six hours after death, revealed a large quantity of blood iu the cavity of the abdomen, the bowels congested, and the small intestines penetrated by the bullet four times. CXL.—Note of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the AMomen. By Robert McCracken, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. At Baton Eouge, Louisiana, August 15, 1868, Acting Assistant Surgeon C. B. Braraan, aged 27 years, was killed by a pistol ball. The missile entered the back, near the left side of the spine, passed through the body, and lodged in the muscular tissues of the anterior part of the left chest, in its course cutting the ascending cava. Death, consequently, was almost instantaneous.