213 AMPUTATIONS OF THE THIGH. constant discharge from two fistulous opeuiugs on the outer side of the knee, communicating with the joint, and the patient.was much emaciated. Never having received a blow or kick about the knee, the patient could assign no cause for the disease, except that he had been obliged to work in the water a number of days just previous to its commencement, about six weeks before admission to hospital. Iron and quinine were immediately ordered, under which his appetite and general health imi^roved. On February 20th, Surgeon J. R. Smith, U. S. A., amputated the thigh at the junction of the lower thirds by the flaj) operation. During the first day, the patient was apparently recovering from the shock of the operation, and it was thought he would surely recover until the morning of the 25th, when slight twitchings of the extremities were observed, which increased in violence and frequency, death occurring at 2 o'clock on the afternoon of the same day. The pathological specimen, with history, was contributed to the Army Medical Museum by Acting Assistant Surgeon A. S. Ehle, and is No. 4722, Section I. DOVII.—Note relative to an Amputation of the Thigh for Gunshot Injury. By J. B. Crandall, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. First Lieutenant Epbraim W , 5th Infantry, aged 30 years, received, in an engagement with Indians, sixty miles west from Fort Dodge, Kansas, September 23, 1867, a gunshot wound of left thigh, extensively fracturing the femui\ He was on the next day admitted to post hospital. Fort Dodge, Kansas, much prostrated from shock of wound and transportation. The injured parts were in good condition. On September 25th, Assistant Surgeon H. A. DuBois, U. S. A., administered chloroform, and amjtntated with anterior and posterior skin flaps at junction of middle and upper thirds. The patient bore the operation very well, and improved rapidly, [This officer was retired April 3, 1809.] DOVIII.—Remarks on an Amputation of the Thigh on Account of Injury. By W. Shackleford , M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Daniel M. Young, Co. F, 23d Infantry, was run over by the wagon of which he was teamster, February 29, 1808, XDroducing a compound fracture of the middle third of the left tibia and fibula. He was admitted to post hospital. Camp Watson, Oregon. The leg was first put in a fracture-box, and constant apijlication of snow maintained until suppuration and displacement of fractured parts by swelling rendered this useless. By the 12th of March, the soft parts were very much inflamed and painful, and suppuration extended to the knee-joint. The i^atient was much debil- itated from loss of sleep, anorexia, and continued great pain. He was very nervous, and his digestion was much impaired by opium, given to allay pain. On the latter date, chloroform was administered, and the thigh amputated just above the knee-joint, by the circular method. The exi^ended condition of the patient and the considerable evolvement of the knee-joint rendered a more economical course dangerous. The patient immediately began to improve without one untoward symptom ; his recovery, however, was delayed by a hcemorrhage from a small artery on the day following the operation, and by a fall, June 31st, the whole weight of his body striking upon the stump. On the 17th of May, 1869, he was examined for ah artificial limb, and at that time the stump was perfectly healed. DCIX.—Memorandum Eclating to a Secondary Amputation of the Thigh, in the Middle Third, for Gunshot Injury. Dr. J. A. Freeman, formerly of the U. S. Colored Troops, reports that he was consulted on March 15, 1868, by John H. Echstrand, late a lieutenant of the same organization, relative to a tumor near the left popliteal space. Ascertaining the previous history of the patient, it was found that he had been wounded at Lookout Mountain, November 24, 1803, by a fragment of shell, which entered the left tibia externally, just below the head, causing him to remain ofl' duty only a few days. Again on August 30, 1804, he was wounded by guerrillas, a pistol ball having fractured his