CONCUSSION OF THE BEAIN OE SPINAL COED. 113 applications of chloroform and camplior, with suli)hate of morphia aud simple cerate. Tonics, nourishing diet, and stimulants, contributed much toward recovery. There was a decided tendency to typhoid depression, but this gave Avay to proper measures. [Surgeon Mechem's health remained delicate. In January, 1871, he availed of a leave of absence of one month, which was extended six months longer, for the benefit of his health. He died at Pleasantville, Maryland, at his father's home, July 14, 1871. The certificate of disability, forwarded to Adjutant General Townseud with the application for extension of leave of absence, was signed by Acting Assistant Surgeon T. B. Chase, at Fort Hays, and clearly traces the shattered condition of Doctor Mechem's health to the accident he had incurred.—Ed.] The foregoing seventy-seven reports aflbrd information regarding twenty-nine cases of incised wounds, eighteen of punctured wounds, twenty-two of lacerated or contused wounds, and nine instances of concussion or compression of tlie brain. Of the twenty- nine cases of incised wounds, eight were fatal, and two resulted in disabilities incapacitat- ing the men for service. One of these was an interesting instance of a recovery from a wound exposing the cavity of the knee-joint. In three of the eight fatal cases, the great vessels of the neck were divided, in two the heart was wounded, in three the abdominal cavity was penetrated, and in one of the latter the small intestine was divided in five places, and enterorrhaphy was practiced under hopeless conditions, the abdomen being filled with blood from the divided mesenteric artery. Among the nineteen patients who recovered and returned to duty, several survived the protrusion through the abdominal walls of large portions of the viscera. Of the eighteen reports on punctured wounds, seven refer to fatal cases. One was an example of wound of the aorta, two were stabs in the lungs, three involved the abdominal viscera, and one the knee-joint. There was an interesting instance of recovery after puncture of the stomach. Of the twenty-two cases of contused and lacerated wounds reported, four were fatal. They were examples of lacerations of internal organs without wounds of the integument. The special reports of concussion or compression of the brain or spinal cord related to nine cases, five of which had a fatal result. 15