REPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 46 CXLI.—Memorandum of a Wou7id of the Abdomen ly a Muslcet-BaU. By John RmaELY, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. * * At Austin, Texas, April 1, 18G8, Private William Burke, Co. B, 6tli United States Cavalry, aged 21 years, received a wound of tlie abdomen from a conoidal bullet. He was admitted to tlie liospital at Austin, Texas, and died on tlie same day. CXLII.—Iflote of a Case of Perforation of the Abdomen by a Muslcet Ball. By J. C. Lamont, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Thomas Baker, Co. K, 24tli United States Infantry, aged 25 years, was accidentally wounded on February 20, 1870, by a conoidal ball, which entered midway between the anterior superior spinous process of the right ilium and the linea alba, passed downward, and laterally, traversing the abdominal cavity, and emerged four inches below the crest of the left ilium, and one inch from the junction of the sacrum with the ilium. He was admitted to the United States post hospital at Fort Duncan, Texas, on the same day. He died on February 21, 1870. CXLIII.—Minute of a Penetrating Wound of the Abdomen. By W. M. NoTSON, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John Gourjan, Co. G, 4th United States Cavalry, aged 22 years, was accidentally wounded while on picket, in the abdomen, on June 6, 1868, by a conoidal bullet. He was admitted into the United States Army ])ost hospital at Fort Concho, Texas, on June 7, 1868. Water-dress- ings were apijlied to the wound. He died on June 8, 1868. OXLIY.—Memorandum of a Perforating Gunshot Wound of Abdomen. By J. Hakvey, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Thomas Brown, Co. C, 5th United States Cavalry, was wounded by a conoidal pistol ball, on May 13, 1868, which entered the back near the tenth dorsal vertebra, and emerged through the abdomen just above the umbilicus, causing almost instant death. CXLY.—Minute of a Fatal Case of Gunshot Wound of Abdomen. By J. A. Tonner, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. . Corporal Thomas Casey, Co. M, 6th United States Cavalry, received, near Austin, Texas, a gunshot wound of the abdomen by a conoidal ball. He was admitted from camj) to the regimental field hospital on February 7, 1867. He died February 8, 1867. CXLVI.—Minutes taken from Monthly Report of Woundedfrom Fort McKavett, Texas. By R. Sharpe, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. At Fort McKavett, February 3, 3870, an autopsy was made on the person of Private Charles Murray, Co. F, 9th United States Cavalry, who was murdered by ruftians while on guard over a man (Jackson) accused of murder. The post-mortem notes are as follows: A ritie ball had entered the right side about three inches above the crest of the ilium, perforated the vena cava ascendeus, and lodged under the cuticle of the left side about one inch above the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. This man was wounded on February 2, 1870, and died almost immediately. Gunshot Flesh Wounds of the Abdomen—Several of the gunshot wounds of tlie abdominal walls that were reported were of a serious nature. CXLVII.— Memorandum of a Case of Gunshot Flesh-Wound of the Abdomen with other Injuries. By H. J. Smith, Assistant Surgeon, 5th United States Yolunteer Infantry. Sergeant Little Priest, Co. A, Omaha Scouts, was wounded near Camp ('onnor, Dakota Terri- tory, in a fight with Sioux Indians, in November, 1865, receiving four gunshot wounds. The first