EEPOET OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY, 106 cation of nitric acid. Under subsequent applications of lint saturated witli a solution of chlorate of potassa, the abscess was doing very well; healthy granulations were being thrown out; ftecal matter was discharging by the rectum, and the patient doing well, when an untoward condition set in. He became weaker, notwithstanding the administration of stimulants and nourishing diet, and died October 2, 1865. Throughout the case the patient evinced the utmost heroism. The abscess, as far as could be learned, was the result of injuries received by being knocked down and kicked in Philadelphia while on the way to Camp Chase. The autopsy revealed adhesions between the pleura pulmonalis and pleura costalis. The liver was healthy except on the outward surface, where there was slight evidence of the abscess having burrowed in the hepatic tissue. The kidneys and stomach were normal. The lungs were very much surcharged with dark venous blood. The transverse colon was ulcerated. COCLV.—Report of a Case of Contusion from a Railway Accident. By G. S. EoSE, Assistant Sur- geon, U. S. A. Private John Holden, Co, C, 29th Infantry, age 23, was injured at Keswick, Virginia, Sep- tember 28, 1868, by a railroad accident. Being admitted on the next day to the post hospital at Camj) Schofield, Lynchburgh, he stated that, while riding on the top of a box-car, and seeing the car in front of him rolling over the embankment, he sprang from the top, but was unable to get away in time, and was struck in the back by the car as it rolled over. He comj)lained of intense pain over the sacrum, extending between the anterior sui^erior si)inous process and the right tuber ischii. The parts over the sacrum were exceedingly tender on pressure, the slightest motion or touch, causing him to scream with i^ain, I was unable to elicit crepitus. He could flex the leg on the thigh without pain, but was unable to flex the thigh on the pelvis. The soft parts were much ecchymosed, and he had a dull, moving, continuous pain, extending across the whole front of the pelvis. Anodynes, with nourishing diet, were given. The patient, making a good recovery, was returned to duty November 26, 1868. CCCLVI.—Note of a Case of Contusion of the Bach. By A. F. Mechem, Surgeon, U. S. A. At Fort Porter, New York, on October 5,1867, Private Thomas Carroll, Battery L, 1st Artillery, aged 23 years, presented himself at surgeon's call, stating that some time during the previous night he had been struck in the back with the butt end of a musket in the hands of a sentinel. The blow knocked him down, when he was struck twice in the splenic region with the same weapon. On examination, a slight wound, such, as might have been made by the percussion hammer of a musket, was found about an inch and a half to the left of the articulation of the twelfth rib with the twelfth dorsal vertebra. About two inches lower, at the same distance from the second lumbar vertebra, was another wound of the same character. He was treated in the post hospital, at Fort Porter, until October 21, 1867, when he was returned to duty entirely cured. CCCLVII.—Mention of a Case of Contusion of the Bade. By C. R. Geeenleap, Assistant Sur- geon, U. S. A. August Burtz, artificer of Co. H, 2d Infantry, aged 38, was admitted to the hospital at Taylor Barracks, Kentucky, on November 7, 1868, having fallen from a ladder to the floor, a distance of fourteen feet. He complained of pain in the bowels and inability to pass water, and suftered considerably from shock. A stimulant and an anodyne were administered. He was improved on the 8th; but, on the 10th, was taken Avith intermittent fever, which yielded to quinine aiul iron. Ho recovered and was returned to duty November 15,1868. CCCLVIII,—Report of Case of Contusion., with Rupture of the Liver and Kidneys. By G, H. GuNN, Assistant Surgeon, U. S, A, Private Henry Greene, Co. H, 9th Cavalry, entered hospital at six in the evening of December 15, 1870, at Fort Quitman, Texas, having been run over by a wagon at eight o'clock the morning of the same day, while on his way to Fort (Jnitnian from Eagle Si)rings. lioth wheels of one side