104 EEPOET OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. CCCXLVII.—Note of a Case of Contused Wound of the Forehead. By Daniel McLean, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Eugene Navarra, Co. F, lOtli Infantry, aged 33 years, received a lacerated wound over the frontal bone, by a blow of the butt of a musket, in a quarrel in company quarters, on December 13, 1870. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Pike, the same day. The edges of the wound were brought together by adhesive strips, compresses, and bandages. He was returned to duty on December 17, 1870. CCCXLVIII.—Note of a Lacerated Wound of the Head. By Aaron Ansell, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. First Lieutenant N. J. McCafferty, Co. K, 4th Cavalry, aged 27 years, received, by falling iiom a horse, a lacerated wound of the head, severing the left ear from above to the lobe, at Fort Inge, Texas, on June 2, 18G7. He was admitted to the post hospital on the same day. Simple dressings were applied. He rapidly recovered, and returned to duty on June 9, 18G7. CCCXLXI.—Mention of Scalp Wounds with Laceration. By W. H. Hopper, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Dennis G. Milane, Co. I, 14th Infantry, aged 26 years, received, by a club, lacerated and contused wounds of the scalp, at Lebanon, Kentucky, April 10, 1870. He was admitted to the post hospital on the same day. Simple dressings were applied. He returned to duty on June 20, 1870. CCCL.—Remarks on a Case of Wound of the Scalp. By John B. White, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Andrew Lewis, Co. B, 40th Infantry, appears, in the report for December, 1868, from the post hosjutal at Raleigh, as having received a wound of the scalp over the left of the frontal bone, extending from the median line to the centre of the orbital arch, dividing the integument to the bone. The injury was inflicted by a brick, in the hands of one of his comrades. Symptoms of concussion were present from the first. Careful attention was directed to the open wound, the edges of which were secured by sutures and adhesive strips. Irrigation was kept up for about twelve hours. Patient made a good recovery, and was returned to duty in three weeks from the reception of the injury. CCCLI.—Report of a Contusion of the Head. By B. A. Clements, Surgeon, U. S. A. Sergeant M, Dougherty, Co. G, 0th Cavalry, aged 28 years, was injured Januarj' 31, 1868, at New Orleans. While mounting his horse he received a violent fall upon a stone pavement, in consequence of the parting of the girth, the horse having started at full speed. The scalp was contused and lacerated at the vertex of the cranium, three-quarters of an inch long, but not extending down to the bone ; there was also a severe contusion of the forehead. He Avas stuiiiu'd by the fall, but did not become insensible. He was at once sent to the post hospital at Jackson Barracks, New Orleans, where he was visited by Surgeon B. A. Clements, United States Army, and Acting Assistant Surgeon Payne, within a few hours after the occurrence of the injury He was sensible, though somewhat slow in speech; pulse 04, full, but rather weak; respiration, unaffected, and skin cool; he vomited at frequent intervals, and complained only of paiu in his head, both at the vertex and in the forehead; the pupils were jjerhajis dilated to a slight extent, but readily contracted on exposure. The case had been considered one of depres- sion, and ])robable fracture of the skull, but there were no evident signs of such an injury. The next morning the pulse was TiO, skin still disi)osed to be cool, pui)ils still slightly dilated; had continued to vomit occasionally during the night. In order to determine with accuracy the state