87 ANALYTICAL REVIEW. case—one of the cases of recovery—wliere it was necessary to extract a piece of iron that had penetrated the cranial cavity. The two instances of recovery after fracture of the mastoid process are uncommon, and the case reported by Assistant Surgeon Patzki, (III, p. 6), in which the yielding integument of the forehead was pared and approximated by sutures, suggests an expedient which may be of occasional utility. The fatality of the wounds of the face was unusually small; while, as has been already remarked, the mortality rate in wounds of the neck was excessive. The reports of wounds of the chest indicate that depletory measures in gunshot inju- ries of the lung have quite fallen into desuetude in our army practice. The wounds of the abdomen and pelvis include some remarkable examples of recovery from accidents of the gravest nature; but the general mortality is so very large as to furnish an additional argument in behalf of M. Legouest's proposition to incise the abdominal walls, and explore the track of the projectile, in certain gunshot penetrating or perforating wounds of that cavity. Thus only, in many cases, can the patient exchange the probability of inevitable death for the possibility of recovery, either through the preven- tion of extravasation by enterorrhaphy, or the bringing of the wounded viscus into apposi- tion with the abdominal walls. For one, I am free to assert that where there is evidence that internal hsemorrhage or fsecal extravasation is going on, what may be termed the "ostrich plan" of giving opium, and "making the patient comfortable," should be aban- doned. And I believe that prejudices similar to those that ovariotomy has successfully overcome in the last quarter of a century, will be dispelled by the results of exploratory incisions in gunshot wounds of the abdomen, before many years have elapsed. The most curious and interesting feature in this series of reports of gunshot wounds is the large proportion of instances of wounds of arteries. Leaving out of view the wounds of the aorta and pulmonary vessels, there were not less than twenty cases of division of the carotids, subclavian, axillary, external iliac, and femoral arteries. Those familiar with field surgery, are aware how rarely such lesions came under the observation of medical officers in campaigns. This is partly explicable by the fact that men may bleed to death in battle before the hospital attendants can reach them. Yet an examina- tion of the dead on battle-fields shows a very small proportion of wounds of the secondary arterial trunks. I believe that the proportionately large number of such cases contained in the reports of garrisons is explained by the fact that the wounds observed are generally inflicted at short range, and by small projectiles, and that a musket or pistol ball, moving with great velocity, will cut or divide an artery, which, at a greater distance, would only be contused, or, by its resiliency, might escape injury altogether.