145 ARROW-WOUNDS. which was extracted at the angle of the jaw, aftei^ it had entered above the left scapula and trans- fixed the left posterior triangle of the neck. A second passed through the fleshy portion of the right fore-arm; and a third pierced the ulnar side of the left fore-arm near the elbow-joint, and, becoming twisted and wedged in the interosseous space, severely lacerated the tissues. With some difficulty the distorted head of this arrow was pushed downward and extracted near the wrist. The wounds were treated with simple dressings. Save partial paralysis of the left hand, the patient did well. OCCOLII.—Report of Death from Ilultiple Wounds^ most of tchich were from Arrows. By W. H. Smith, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Robert Nix, Co. G, lith Infantry, Avas wounded near Camp Lincoln, Arizona Territory, in October, 18G8. He received a gunshot flesh-wound in the upper portion of left arm; a slight cut from an arrow in the left ear; two flesh-wounds from arrows, from one of which the hiemor- rhage was profuse; two arrow wounds in the right knee, the synovial membrane having been penetrated, but no bones broken; one gunshot wound in the right elbow, but not through the joint; and another through the metacarpal bone of the third finger of the right hand. During tlie eight hours following, while being conveyed to camj), he became very weak from loss of hlood, and riding part of the time on a horse with a comrade, and the remainder in a Government team. He suddenly died the next luorning. Decided symptoms of fatty degeneration, with dilata- tion and hypertrophy of heart, had been previously observed. CCCCLIII.—Note of a Case of 3Iultij_)le Arrow-Wounds. By R. B. HiTZ, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Con stand Queswelle, Co. E, 13th Infantry, aged 26 years, received May 24, 1808, while on herding duty about half a mile from Camp Reeve, Montana Territory, seven arrow-wounds. One arrow entered the cavity, through the eighth dorsal vertebra, and one through the ninth; three passed through the fore-arm, one between the fifth and sixth ribs on the right side, and one through the palmer surface of the right hand. Death was appai^ently instantaneous. CCCCLIV.—Bejyort of a Case of Death from Arroiv-Wounds. By G. L. Porter, Assistant Sur- geon, U. S. A. Nat. Crabtree, a citizen, aged 38 years, while looking for his cattle, April 21, 1868, was shot by Indians, receiving nine arrow-wounds; one in the post gluteal region, one in the left lung, one in the abdomen, one penetrating the humerus, one in the hand, one in the testicle, one in the back to the left of the dorsal vertebra, one in the bladder, and a glance-shot five inches long below the ninth rib. He was admitted to the post hospital at Camp Cooke, Montana Territory. Some of the arrows had been removed by his friends, and fiv^e, including the one in the gluteal region, which had penetrated ten and a half inches, were taken out at the post. The man died a few hours after admission to hospital. COCCLV.—Report of a Remarlcahle Case of Arroiv- Wounds. By J. H. Peabody, M. D., Late Surgeon, U. S. V. Private George Osborn, of Troop D, 2d Nebraska Cavalry, was wounded by arrows in a skirm- ish with Indians near Pawnee Reserve, Nebraska, on June 23, 1863. Eight arrows entered at dif- ferent parts of his body, and were all extracted except the head of one, which had entered at the outer and lower margin of the right scapula, and had passed upward and inward through the upper lobe of the right lung, or trachea. Haemorrhage at this time was so great that all hope of recovery was abandoned. The patient, however, rallied, but continued to suffer great pain upon swallowing or coughing, and occasionally spit blood. In July, 1866, more than three years subsequent to the receipt of the injury, he called at the office of Dr. J. H. Peabody, to undergo an examination, with a view of applying for a pension, stating that his health was much affected from the presence of the arrow-head. He was much emaciated, and expressed himself tired of life. Upon probing 19