200 EEPOET OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. of the left tibia and fibula, involving tlie articulations of tlie foot, the dorsal region being severely lacerated. He also received a slight bayonet wound in the left leg just below the point wliere the ball entered. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Jefferson, Florida, on the same day. The soft parts were considerably contused and lacerated. Acting Assistant Surgeon W. E. Day, on December 25th, administered ether and amiiutated the limb at the junction of the middle and lower thirds by a circular operation. At time of operation i)atient was suffering from i)rimary haemorrhage and nervous shock. Seventeen hours after operation traumatic tetanus supervened, which was controlled by subcutaneous injections of atropine and morphine. Nourishing diet was allowed. Death resulted January 11,1870. DLXX.—Mention of a Double Amputation of the Legs. By P. C. Dayis, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private David Perigo, Co. D, 13th Infantry, aged 18 years, had both of his feet frost-bitten on the night of December 21, 18C9. He was admitted into the post hospital at Fort Ellis, Montana Territory, on the next day. Snow, ice-water, and simple cer.ate dressings were applied. Gangrene supervened, and on January 1, 1870, Assistant Surgeon Clarence Ewen, U. S. A., administered ether and amputated the left leg at the lower third, and, on the next day, the right leg at the lower third. Stimulants and nourishing diet were given. By March 31, 1870, the patient was convales- cent. He was transferred to the Soldiers' Home, Washington, June 1,1871, DLXXI.—Bemarls on a Secondary Amputation of tlie Leg. By W. E. Tomkins, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Lieutenant W. L. P , 5th Cavalry, received on February 22, 18G8, at Gallatin, Tennessee, a comiiound comminuted fracture of both bones of the left leg, caused by the bursting of an anvil while firing a national salute. There being no guns, a hole in an anvil had been charged with powder, another anvil placed upon the hole, and the charge ignited by a hot iron. One of the anvils bursted into a number of pieces, one of which, weighing four and three-quarter pounds, struck the lieutenant on the leg, extensively lacerating the soft parts. On the morning of February 23d I excised from six to eight inches of the tibia, and placed the limb in a fracture-box with wheat bran, using extension and counter extension. For sometime the case progressed favorably; after- ward profuse suppuration set in, Avith unhealthy granulation and a tendency to grangrene, and the patient became debilitated from profuse discharge of pus. On April 23, 1868, he was again ether- ized, and Dr. Paul F. Eve amputated the leg by the circular method. He survived the operation nine or ten hours, dying from shock of operation, April 23, 18G8. DLXXII.—Account of an Amputation of the Leg for Gunshot Injury. By S. M. Hoeton, Assist- ant Surgeon, U. S. A. James Scregg, a citizen, aged 29 years, was accidentally wounded July 24,1866, by the discharge of his rifle, which fractured the bones of the right ankle-joint. On the same day he was fetched a distance of twenty-five miles to the post hospital, at Fort Philip Kearney, Dakota Territory. On admission, his pulse was rapid and weak, his ankle-joint intensely i^ainful and swelled, and gangrene had begun in the foot. I immediately administered equal parts of chloroform and ether, and amputated the leg in the middle third by a flap operation. Cold-water dressings were applied, and stimulants given. The stumj) healed slowly, the skin refusing to cicatrize entirely on account of scabies. On November 10,1866, he left for his home, his stump not entirely healed, but very firm. DLXXIIT.—BemarJcs on an Amputation of the Leg for Gunshot Injury. By C. K. Winne, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Edwin Shears, Co. G, 20th Infantry, aged 23 years, was wounded December 29,1869, by the accidental discharge of his musket. The ball entered above and behind the internal