AMPUTATIONS OF THE LEG. 211 whicli he had partakeu freely. Ou May 1, 1868, at 3 o'clock, P. M., being assisted by Dr. D. O. Farrand, 1 amputated the thigh through the upper portion of the middle third, while the patieut was under the influence of chloroform. The patieut was weak, but cheerful. Beef-tea and brandy were given every half hour. Twenty drops of chloroform were given internally one hour before the operation. After the amputation, the patient was quite weak. The muscles and all the small vessels were much bruised and mashed, the femoral artery and deep saphenous vein being the only vessels requiring ligation. The shock of the operation was severe, from which he rallied slowly. The reaction was complete at 7 o'clock P. M.; the i^ulse was small and feeble—about 120. At 10 o'clock P. M. the patient felt better, took beef-tea and small quantities of brandy and water every half hour; pulse continued weak and feeble, at 120. He complained of much pain in the lost limb. One-fourth of a grain of sulphate of mori^hia was given. He slept comfortably about two hours, but sank gradually, and died from exhaustion at 4 o'clock A. M., May 2,1868. The specimen is No. 5447, section I, A. M. M. DC.—EemarJcs on an Amputaiion of the Thigh for Gunshot Injury. By Jules Le Carpentier, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Serrapia Montiel, a Mexican, aged 45 years, and of broken constitution, was fired upon by two drunken soldiers on December 31, 1868, and was wounded by a pistol ball which struck the anterior inner aspect of the right thigh about the middle, passed downward and outward, producing a transverse fracture, with some comminution, at the point of lesion, and a longitudinal fracture extending three and one-half inches up the shaft, and, dividing into about six pieces, scattered and lodged. On the next day he was conveyed to the ijost hospital at Fort Bayard, New Mexico. The patient had lost much blood, and stimulants were given to produce reaction. At 2 P. M. on January 2d, I chloroformed the patient, who did not exhibit any signs of reaction, but became at ' once insensible, and amputated the thigh at the junction of the upper thirds by the antero- posterior flap operation. The htemorrhage was abundant, notwithstanding the measures taken to check it. But three ligatures were required. While the stump was being dressed with alcohol and water the patient suddenly ceased breathing, and the pulse could not be felt. Cold water was dashed into his face, and ammonia was applied to his nose, when the respiration became natural. Stimulants, an anodyne, and beef-tea were given, but, as expected, he died three hours after the operation, of exhaustion. DCI.—Report of an Amputation of the Thigh for Gunshot Injury. By A. J. Gray, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Willis B. Morgan, an indigent civilian, aged 26 years, asthenic from constitutional syphilis and long-continued dissipation, was accidentally wounded on December 27,1870, by a round musket ball which entered the leg three inches below the knee-joint, passed down between the tibia and fibula, and lodged under the external malleolus, slightly fracturing that process, and opening the ankle-joint. On the next day he was admitted to the hospital at Fort Bayard, New Mexico; and on the 29th, the wound being gangrenous, the patient was rendered insensible with equal parts of ether and chloroform, and the thigh was amputated at the lower fourth by circular operation. The stump was dressed with cold-water dressings, followed by warm fomentation, and wine, beef- tea, and tonics were given. Ou December 31st the case was progressing favorably. DCII.—Memorandum relative to an Amputation of the Thigh for Synovitis. Henry Pearce, Assistant Surgeon, 150th New York Volunteers, according to the records of the Pension Office, had been suffering from synovitis of the left knee-joint for some years, when, on October 25, 1863, the disease was aggravated by his horse falling with him. He was treated at the hospital at Tiillahoma, Tennessee. His knee grew rapidly worse, and he walked with great difficulty. On April 7, 1864, he was discharged the service, on surgeon's certificate of disability.* * Resigned April 7, 1864.—O^cio/ Army Begisier of Volunfeet-.s. Parb 2, p. 6b'-i.