47 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. ball was received in the epigastric region anteriorly, abont two inches above the umbilicus and to the right of the median line. As he did not arrive at post until some time after the irritative fever had set in, it was hard to ascertain the direction of said ball, but the best diagnosis that could be made in the case was, that it had passed between the intestines and abdominal walls, passing over the crest of the right ilium, and lodging in the gluteal muscles. The second ball passed in posteri- orly to the left of the right scapula, and traveling through the superficial fascia and cellular substance covering that bone, lodged in the substance of the right deltoid muscle. The third ball was a glancing shot, making a lacerated wound of the pectoralis major muscle, near its insertion into the anterior bicipital ridge of the humerus. The fourth ball entered posteriorly the triceps muscle of the left arm. The track and lodgement of this ball are still unknown. At the end of the month the patient was doing well, with good hope of his speedy recovery. [He was returned to duty December, 1865.—Ed.] CXLYIII.—Note of a Ounsliot Flesh- Wo%md. By Harvey E. Brown, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Daniel McCarthy, Co. D, 24th United States Infantry, aged 22 years, received a gun- shot wound from a couoidal pistol bullet, on March 25,1809. The ball entered one inch below the anterior superior spinous process of the left ilium, and made its exit midway between the crest of the ilium and the tuber ischii. He was admitted to the post hospital at Galveston, Texas, on March 25,1869. Cold-water dressings were applied. He was returned to duty in April, 1869. CXLIX.—Note of a Gunsliot Flesh- Wound of the Abdomen. By Bedford Sharpe, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private William L. Jones, Co. F, 35th United States Infantry, aged 24 years, received a gun- shot wound of the abdomen. He was admitted into the United States Army jjost hospital at San Antonio, Texas, from field hospital, on December 11, 1866. The treatment consisted of simple dressings. He was returned to duty on December 22, 1866. CL.—Note of a Gunshot Flesh-Wound. By John Brooke, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Lieutenant G. A. H. Clements, Co. H, 44th United States Infantry, aged 24 years, received on May 19, 1868, a gunshot wound of the abdomen, by the accidental discharge of his pistol. He was admitted to the post hospital at Washington, D. C, on May 24, 1868. The ball was extracted jire- vious to admission. Simple dressings were applied. He was transferred to quarters on June 8, 1868. CLI.—Memorandum of a Gunshot Flesh-Wound. By F. Suhring, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Thomas Marrion, Co. I, 16th United States Infantry, was wounded near McNutt, Mis- sissippi, while assisting the deputy sheriff" in making an arrest. The ball entered the lower part of the left iliac region, and, passing to the right, lodged in the lower part of the right iliac region, immediately under the skin. After being wounded, the patient started on horseback for his sta- tion, a distance of about thirty-one miles, and on his arrival did not seem to be seriously injured. After some time, however, severe vomiting and great i^rostratiou followed, which, after several days' duration, yielded to the administration of counter-irritants and proper diet. Constipation was easily overcome by a few doses of castor oil. The utmost rest, and light, digestible food—as peritonitis had set in—was ordered. The wound was treated first with cold-water dressings; after- wards with warm poultices of slippery elm and hops. The visceral peritonieum, it seems, had been injured to some extent. The patient was convalescent at the date of this report, January, 1870.