REPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 126 CCCCIV.—Memorandum of a Case of Fracture of the Cranium. V. B. Hubbard, Assistant Sur- geon, U. S. Army. Private U , TJ. S. Military Academy, detachment of Cavalry, was admitted to the post hospital at 9 o'clock P. M., December 23, 1870, in an unconscious state, bleeding profusely from the left ear. He had fallen down-stairs while intoxicated, receiving the full force of the blow upon his head. There was no laceration, contusion, or swelling of the scalp to indicate tlie precise locality of the injury. A careful examination of the head revealed nothing. The soldier was so intoxicated as to render it difficult if not impossible to ascertain defluitely how much of his comatose condition was attributable to the injury received. Pulse 70, full but compressible, intermitting twice in the minute; respiration 16; temperature 98°; pupils somewhat dilated, though responding to light; his breatliing was of the heavy stertorous character usually present in drunk- enness. He was extremely restless, requiring two attendants to keep him in bed ; muttering inces- santly and unintelligibly during the night. The flow of blood from the ear was reduced shortly after being admitted into hospital to an oozing, which continued until his death on the 2Tth, the fourth day after the receipt of the injury. The blood was chiefly arterial ,• no serum could be detected. Cold applications were made to the head, and the extremities were kept warm by hot bottles. Saturday, 24th: Patient still remains unconscious; pulse 51, full, compressible, and inter- mitting as of the previous night; pupils responsive to light; slightly but equally dilated ; tempera- ture 98°, respirations IG, their character unchanged; restlessness continues; is constantly making attempts to get out of bed, and is only restrained by close watching and the exercise of a good deal of physical force on the part of his attendants; muttering continuous; bowels moved by enema; moveaieut involuntary; bladder evacuated unconsciously twice during the day; quantity and color of urine normal. Injections of beef tea administered during the day, as the patient was unable to swallow. Sunday, 25th : No perceptible change in the condition of the patient; pulse, respirations, and temperature remain the same as of the day previous ; bowels moved and urine voided involunta- rily, muttering and restless as before. Upon being slapped quite smartly upon the cheek with the flats of the fingers with the view to rouse him from his comatose condition, he gave utterance to an expression of disgust in a single word—the only evidence of consciousness given by the patient after the receipt of the injury. Injections of beef tea and brandy, largely diluted, every two hours, as the patient was still unable to swallow. Monday, 26th, 6 A. M.: Patient still unconscious ; pulse 66; respirations 17; temperature 98°; restlessness continues, i^atient rolling from side to side, making frequent attempts to get out of bed. 12 M.: Pulse 50 ; temperature 100°; respira- tions IG. 4 P. M.: No change worthy of mention in the pulse, respirations, or temperature. At 8 P. M. reaction set in violently, pulse 150; temperature 105°; respirations variable, from 14 to 19. From this hour the patient sank rapidly, pulse running up to 200. Died at 5 A. M., Tues- day, 27th. The decubitus in this case was either dorsal or left lateral; chiefly the latter. The jactitation was the most marked symptom throughout. Post-mortem, at 2 P. M., 27th: Remov- ing the scalp, extensive extravasation of blood was found, chiefly on the left side, but no clots. The fracture aud depression, their character and extent, are shown in the specimen.* A description of them is therefore omitted. Upon removing the calvarium, a clot, nearly circular in form, two inches and one-half in diameter, and half an inch in thickness at its centre, lying between the dura mater and the skull, was found immediately under the seat of depression. Dark fluid blood mixed with serum, estimated at six ounces, escaped upon removing the skull. At a point diagonally opposite the seat of injury (the force of the blow evidently coming from behind and being directed forward and upward), immediately under the right frontal protuberance, the surface of the brain was found lacerated and contused, by contre-coup, over a space and to a depth nearly equal in extent with the dimensions of the clot mentioned above. *Tiie specimen (No. 5919, Sect. I, A. M. M.) is interestiug. It is the left side of tlie cranium, sliowing a sliglitly depressed fracture over tlie parietal eminence, with fissures extending to the petrous bone. At the place of direct impact the outer table is driven into the diplc, and is fissured by two lines, an inch and a half and an inch in length, respect- ively, crossing at right angles. The inner table is very slightly depressed at this point. Extanding from this depres- sion to the auditory caual is a broad fissure which passes through the petrous bone. Wood-cuts of the specimen were prepared, but they were unsatisfactory and were discarded.—Ed.