EEPOKT OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 182 out of warm water, were applied along junction of flaps. Dniing the operation, hremorrhage was controlled by compression with the thumb and fingers of an assistant; on the right side upon the axillary, and on the left side upon the brachial arteries. The patient was very healthy and robust, of cheerful disposition, and bore the loss of his hands and arm with fortitude and iiatience. After entire reaction from the shock, the constitutional excitement, feverishness, thirst, &c., lasted for three dtiys. He suffered from obstinate constipation and retention of urine, for which cathartics, diuretics, enemata, and hot poultices to abdomen were prescribed. After the first four days' use of the catheter, all retention of urine ceased. He made rapid progress in recovery, the flaps uniting by first intention, or without granulating, except along the tracks of the ligatures, and one i^oint on the upper side of the right stump. The treatment consisted principally of compresses, adhe. sive straps, supports to the flaps, a saturated solution of carbolic acid and glycerine api^lied every two or three hours to the edges of the flaps, and creasote used freely on the dressings. No coM-icater dressings were used at any time. At the end of the first week he was sitting in a chair. On the eighth day after the accident the flaps of the left fore-arm had sufiGciently united to allow removal of compress and adhesive straps, and substitution of lint and sweet oil, which was loosely applied to extremity of stump. By the twentieth day, the flaps of right stump were firmly united, except track of ligature on brachial artery, on which day that ligature came away. On the twenty-fourth day the patient walked around out of doors. Ou Jane 1st a small boil was oi)encd in right axilla. June 3d, boil entirely healed up, and subsequently did not trouble him. Stimulating and nourish- ing diet was used. The face and neck have eutirely healed without blemish. The stumps are firm with good cushions for artificial limbs, for which application will be made. This man was discharged the service December 14, 1870, on account of loss of both arms. DXXYI.—Account of an Amputation of tlie Arm for Necrosis. By A. C. GiRAED, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Patrick Ford, Co. G, 19th Infantry, aged 31 years, suffered for eight months from necrosis of radius and ulna of the right arm. There was no attempt at new formation of bone; sequestrae not movable. He was admitted to the post hospital at Baton Eouge, Louisiana, on November 13, ISGp. Counter irritants were applied, and alteratives and tonics administered. Scrofula was the source of the disease. Ou February 8th, with the advice and assistance of E. A. Koerper, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A., and Dr. W. Eeynaud, of Baton Eouge, I attempted exsection of sequestrce by trepanation. I found, however, extensive destruction of both bones, with no attempt at formation of callus. The metaphysis of radius was almost entirely' destroyed. The patient commencing to" be reduced by pain and suppuration, and amputation above the elbow having been decided on, he was chloroformed, and the limb was amputated by the circular method. Three vessels were ligated, and the wound was closed with the interrupted suture. The patient made a rapid recovery in two weeks, and his general health improved wonderfully. He was discharged the service March 19, 1870. DXXVIl.—Note on an Amputation of the Arm for GunsJiot Injury. By "VV. E. Eamsey, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Henry Happe, Troop G, 2d Cavalry, was shot in the left arm while on escort duty with Wells, Fargo & Co.'s stage, August 10,1867. He was conveyed to Fort Sanders, Dakota Territory, where, September 11, 18G7, the arm was amputated at the upper third by the flap method. He was discharged on November 1, 1867. On the 20th of November, 1868, he was examined for artificial limb, at which time the stump was in a sound condition. The man is a pensioner at $15 per month. DXXVIII.—Report of an Ampxitation of the Arm for Gunshot Injury. By T. St. V. Hutchinson, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Pi'ivate Timothy Houlihan, Co. I, 2d Infantry, aged 29 years, was fired upon l)y a patrol near the camji of the 2d Infantry, May 27, 1869. The ball entered directly above the head of the