OPEEATIONS ON THE EYE AND EAE. 245 As the tension was very great, on consiTltation with Dr. E. M. Curtis, of Oswego, it was decided to operate as soon as possible. Accordingly, on the 16th of July, the linear operation was performed by Dr. Curtis, with my assistance, the patient being under the influence of chloric ether. It was found, on operating, that the iris was extensively injured; so much so as to give but little hope of an entirely favorable result. The lens extracted was completely disorganized. After the operation the sight decidedly imiiroved, though the patient had to undergo quite a severe attack of irido- choroiditis after the operation. This soldier was discharged on October 10, 1870, on surgeon's cer- tificate of disability, for loss of sight. The accident occurred from a blow received in a drunken brawl. DCLXXII.—A Case of Extraction of a Foreign Body from the Anterior Chamber of the Bight Eye. By F. Meachaji, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Patrick Sheridan, Co. D, 36th Infantry, appeared at sick-call at Camp Douglas, Utah Territory', January 14, 1869, complaining of an injury of the right eye. A foreign substance was found deeply imbedded in the cornea. An attempt to remove it failed, as it had passed entirely through, and was suspended in the anterior chamber of the eye. Chloroform was administered, the wound of entrance was enlarged, and a piece of steel one-sixteenth of an inch in length, one- forty-eighth of an inch in width, and one-ninety-sixty of an inch in thickness was removed from the anterior surface of the iris. Prolapse of the iris occurred when irisdectomy was performed. January 31st the wound of the cornea had entirely healed, with a slight leucoma, which somewhat interfered with the vision. The patient was mustered out January 22, 1869, on account of expiration of term of service. Opeeations on the Eae.^—A single special report on this subject was received. DCLXXIII.—Account of an Operation for the Removal of an Aural Folypus. By J. M. Dickson, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John Jeffcott, Co. B, 9th Infantry, of strumous diathesis, was admitted to hospital at Fort Sedgwick, Colorado Territory, on July 10, 1870, with deafness of both ears, accompanied by discharge, a small polypus existing in the meatus of the right ear. By July 24th the walls of the meatus, »&c., were so thickened that a small speculum could with diflQculty be introduced but a short distance. The Eustachian tubes were pervious. On that date the polypus was removed, by torsion, with forceps, the remaining portions by the application of nitrate of silver. The ensuing treatment consisted of astringent injections, the occasional application of a blister over the mastoid portion of the occipital bone. Tonics and alteratives were administered. On September 2, 1870, he was transferred to hospital at Fort Eussell, Wyoming Territory, accomjianying his company. At that date his hearing was much imiiroved. Operations on the Moijth and its Dependencies.—Interesting instances have been reported of operations for ranula, polypus, and salivary calculus. DCLXXIV.—Bemarlis on a Case of Banula. By Irving C. Eosse, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Magenthaler, Battery G, 1st Artillery, presented himself at sick-call at Fort Monroe, Virginia, on December 16, 1869, having for some time had a troublesome tumor, involving the right side of the floor of the mouth. It forced the tongue upward and backward, and interfered with swallowing and pronunciation. There was no perceptible derangement of the general health. Making a small puncture in the cyst, a glairy, ropy fluid escaped; but it Avas not ascertained whether this was an accumulation in the salivary ducts or a collection in an enlarged follicle. The cyst was thought to constitute that form of atheroma known as cholesteatoma, or, more commonly, ranula. A seton was passed through its walls, and a saturated solution of chlorate of potash was