KEPOET OF SUKGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 196 be carious to tlie length of about oue incb, wliich was removed with the bone forceps. Patient lost about OJie and a half ounces of blood ; he reacted well, though quite weak. On March 31st the left stuiup was sui)i)uratiiig- profusely, and it was doubtful whether the atteiiii)t to save a portion of the foot would bo successful. The right stump looked healtliy, with a good and tirm cushion over the bones, without tenderness, although the abscess opened March ISth still dischargetl a few drops of healthy pus. His general condition was somewhat better than before the oi)eration, but still ci itical. In July, 1871, the stump of the right foot had healed, and the condition of the left was favorable. Arriputations of the Le(j.—Special reports of twenty-three cases of tliis class were received, of which nine were due to gun-shot wounds, seven to frost-bites, three to railway accidents, and four to other injuries. Five cases proved fatal. DLIX.—Account of an Amputation of the Leg. By E. A. Koerper, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Thomas W. Avens, a musician of the 25th Infantry Band, and a strong, hearty man, was accidentally shot at Fort Clark, Texas, on August 20, 1870, by a musket loaded with duck shot, which carried away the ungual phalanges of the middle and ring fingers of the right liaiul, shattered the right tibia about three inches below the proximal extremity, wounded the anterior and posterior tibial arteries, and lacerated the soft parts. The patient suffered considerably from pain and arterial htemorrhage. On being taken to the hospital, chloroform Avas administered within twenty minutes after the receipt of the injury, when Acting Assistant Surgeon Donald Jackson amputated three inches below the knee by the circular method, ligating the two principal arteries, and applying torsion to the smaller branches. The flaps were closed by five stitches, leaving an opening near the lower angle. Venous haemorrhage continued a short time afterward. The injured fingers were also properly removed, when the man promptly recovered from the auicsthesia, complaining of pain in the precordial region, which lasted but a short time. After the administration of a stimulant with an anodyne, a good night was passed. On the evening of the 27th, traumatic fever ran high, and the stump became swollen and painful. The treatment in this case, which presented nothing remarkably different from other cases of amputation, consisted in irrigation to the stump, carbolic acid and warm-water dressings, laxatives, and anodynes, Avhen indicated, and a light but nutritious diet. By September 18th, the fingers had entirely healed, and on October 25th, the leg had also healed, leaving an excellent stump. On December 13th, the patient was sent to quarters; and on February 4,1871, he was discharged the service. DLX.—Report of an Amputation of the Leg for Potfs Fracture. By G. S. EosE, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John Baker, Co. C, 29th Infantry, aged 22 years, convalescent from intermittent fever, was wounded in a railroad accident which occurred at Keswick Station, Yirgiuia, on September 28, 1808. He was riding on the top of a box-car, when, seeing that it must go over the embankment, he jumped, and alighted on his feet, causing fracture of the left fibula, with displacement of the tibia from the corresponding surface of the astragalus, the fractured extremity of the fibula pro- jecting nearly two inches from the wound. A few moments after the accident. Assistant Surgeou J. H. Patzki, U. S. A., in charge of the detachment, enlarged the wound and replaced the fractured extremities of the bone. On the 29th, he was admitted to the post hospital at Camp Schofield, Lynchburg, Virginia, where, on the same day, the wound was carefully closed and dressed with one part carbolic acid and four ijarts linseed oil, and a small 'si)lint and bandage were adjusted to the outer side of the leg. He was placed on special diet; opiates were given at bedtime, and several days after, quinine and whiskey during the day, on account of his condition prior to the accident. On the 30th, the leg being hot and swelled, the splints and bandages were removed, and the limb was placed in a fracture-box. From October 1st to the 4th, there was a copious discharge of unhealthy pus, and on the latter date, a good deal of irritative fever. On the 5th, a large abscess,