103 LACEEATED AND CONTUSED WOUNDS. cavity of the knee-joint. The hfemorrliage was very severe, but was finally controlled by cold water. He was admitted on the next day to the hospital at Fort McDowell, where the liinb was bandaged, constant applications of cold water ordered, and absolute rest enjoined. On April 12th, the bandage becoming tightened from swelling, was removed. The knee was ijainful. The wound was dressed with carbolic acid and olive oil, and the limb was placed, slightly bent, in a cradle; the application of cold water was continued, with nourishing diet and opiates at night. No improve- ment having taken place, on April 16th, the administration of Gross's antimonial and saline mixture was directed, with continuance of the dressings, and application of cold water. Tonics, with beef- tea and wine, were given at regular intervals during the day. Imi^rovement was manifest, and continued until May 23d, when blisters and tincture of iodine were applied, and subsequently iodide of potassium was administered to encourage absorption, which took place slowly. By May 23d, the knee was reduced to its normal size, and almost all evidence of inflammation had disap- peared, and the patient's condition was most satisfactory, the wound having healed, except on the surface, over which the new skin was closing rapidly. On the night of May 28th, notwithstanding- stringent directions had been given that the leg must not be moved unless iiermission was given, the patient bent the knee " in order to try it," as he said. The result was manifest the next day; inflammation set in ; the knee became hot, swollen, and painful, and in a few days there was effu- sion in the knee-joint, and constitutional sympathy. He gradually lost his appetite and strength. The wound reopened, and in two weeks suppuration commenced and pus was discharged. Tonics, stimulants, and nourishing diet were given, but without effect. He wasted rapidly until June 12, when a severe diarrhoea set in, which increased in violence until June 23, when he died from exhaustion. Laceeated and Contused Wounds.—The reports usually contain a rather large pro- portion of cases of bruises and lacerations. A few instances may be cited, among them two interesting examples of laceration of internal organs without breach of continuity in the integument. CCCXLIV.—Note relative to a Wound of the Scalp. By Oaelos Cakvallo, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private George T. Atwood, Co. K, 5th Cavalry, aged 22 years, admitted to hospital at Sedg- wick Barracks, Washington, on September 20, 1867, with a triangular lacerated wound of the scalp, received in a fracas with a policeman, in Washington, the previous day. The gaping wound was drawn together with adhesive strips, and on the 21st, proud flesh appearing on the edges of the w-ound, it was cauterized. The wound healed rapidly, and, on October 6th, the patient was returned to duty. CCCXLY.—Note relative to a Wounct of the Scalp. By James F. Weeds, Surgeon, U. S. A. At Ash Barracks, Nashville, February 1, 1870, Frank Morton, corporal, Co. K, 14th Infantry, Avhen intoxicated, received, by falling from a railroad tressel-woi'k, on a rough stone, a severe wound on the left side of the head, six inches long, over the parietal and temporal bones. He was admitted to post hospital the next day, and a lotion of a solution of carbolic acid on lint was applied. He recovered and returned to duty February 24, 1870. COCXLVI.—Mention of a Contusion of the Scalp. By D. McLean, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private John Eiley, Co. F, 19th Infantry, aged 27 years, received a contusion of the scalp over the left parietal bone, by a fall on a steamer when returning from absence with leave, from New Orleans, on November 9, 1870. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Pike, on the same day, and cold-water dressings applied. He was returned to duty on November 14tli.