243 LIGATIONS IN THE LOWER EXTREMITY. DCLXVI.—Note relative to a Ligation of the Posterior Circumflex Artery. By B. B. Miles, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Thomas Quigley, Co. G, 17tli Infantry, aged. 21 years, received at Sulphur Springs, Texas, December 24, 1868, an incised, wound of left shoulder, eight inches in length from shoulder downwards. He was admitted to the post hospital. The patient had fainted from loss of blood, and the pulse was almost imperceptible. I ligated the posterior circumflex artery, and. brought the edges of the wound together with silk and adhesive plaster. The wound healed rapidly, and was doing well December 31, 1868. The patient was returned to duty in February, 1869. DOLXVII.—Note relative to a Ligation of the Peroneal and Tibial Arteries. By H. A. DuBoiS, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A., Corporal Peter Stone, Troop C, 3d Cavalry, aged 24 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Union, New Mexico, June 29,1867, with a gunshot wound in the leg. The missile, a conoidal ball, entered, three inches below the head of tibia, i^assed through the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles, descended the tibialis posticus to two inches below the outer malleolus, and injured, in its course the peroneal, and j)robably the posterior tibial artery. An incision through the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles was made, and the peroneal and tibial arteries and all bleeding branches were ligated. The x>atient never rallied from the shock, and died July 1, 1867, fifty-two hours after the operation. At the post-mortem examination the kidneys were found inflamed, and the unlooked-for termination of the case was explained by the fact that the patient had. been on a debauch at the time of his admission, and for some weeks previously. DCLXVIII.—Minute of a Case in lohich the Borsalis Pedis Artery was ligated. By E. Y. Chase, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private James Lasby, Co. G, 23d Infantry, aged 33 years, while, on December 15,1868, choi)i)ing wood at Fort Colville, Washington Territory, cut his right foot Avith a sharp axe. The flexor tendons of the foot, dorsalis pedis artery, and the metatarsal bone of big toe were divided, causing a gaping wound four inches in length. He was admitted to the iiost hospital, where the dorsalis pedis artery was ligated, and the wound closed by interrupted suture. The Avound failed to nnite by first intention, and on December 20,1868, the ligature was removed. The patient was returned to duty in March, 1869.