EEPOET OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE AEMT. 90 CCCV.—Report of Several Incised Wounds Inflicted with a Razor. By Dr. C. B. Bkaman, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private McManus, Co. A, 20t]i Infantry, while a iirisoner in tlie guard-liouse at Baton Eouge, Louisiana, in May, 18G8, was cut in the hip, shoulder, and throat by a razor in the hands of a drunken comrade. The first wound was slight; the second, a deep flesh-wound over the trapezius muscle; the third extended from the right sterno-cleido mastoid, midway upward to the angle of the jaw, and downward to the raphe of the trachea. The external jugular, the thyroid and facial arteries were severed. I did not find it necessary to ligate, but was able to check hfemorrhage by lint and persulphate of iron in powders, with comi^ression. After fourteen hours, I closed the wound. The patient recovered, and was returned to duty May 14,1868. CCCVI.—Report of a Suicide from an Incised Wound of the Throat. By J. H. Baetholf, Assist- ant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John Cody, Co. C, 11th Infantry, committed suicide at Camp Grant, Virginia, on the night of September 3, 18G7, at 11 o'clock, by cutting his throat with a razor, half severing the left internal jugular vein, and cutting the larynx through the crico-thyroid to the mucuous membrane at the back part of the cartilage. A second cut was made, diverging a little from the middle of the first, and going to the same depth. These two very thorough gashes, made with energy, were the extent of the suicidal eflbrt. Death ensued in a few moments. CGCYll.—RemarTis on the Monthly Report of Side and Wounded at Camp Lincoln, California, for February, 1868. By Dr. F. Kkox, Acting Assistant Surgeon. The case, entered under the head of convulsions, and resulting in death, was that of Private Gustavus Louiston, Co. G, 9th Infantry. He was relieved in three hours by venesection and sinapisms. After four hours of quiet sleep he appeared perfectly rational and quiet, but with evidence of inflammation of the brain. A ten-grain dose of calomel was admiuistered. About five hours after he got a razor and cut his own throat, completely severing all the integuments to the spinal column. The razor passed through the larynx at the front, but within an inch passed above it. The oesophagus could be plainlj- seen, entirely divided. He lived ten days. The treatment was solely to alleviate suffering. CCCYIII.—^ccoMn< of an Incised Wound of the Head and Thorax. By F. A. Wilmans, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private J. W. McClinchey, Co. E, 17th Infantry, aged 21 years, received on August 12, 1868, an incised wound of the head and right side from a knife blade, which penetrated the lung, letting the air escape freely. The wound on the head was three and a half inches long, exposing the right parietal bone. On the following day he was admitted to the post hospital, Brenham, Texas, where sutures and simijle dressings were used, and on September 26th, he was returned to duty. CCCIX.—Report relative to Two Incised Wounds. By Donald Jackson, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. First Sergeant John Jones, Co. C, 24th Infantry, aged 21 years, was wounded June 14, 1870, ill a brawl, by a pocket-knile, which entered in front of acromion process, passing directly down- Avard two inches deep. Also an incised wound, three inches below the left axilla, two inches long, l)enetrating to the ribs. He was admitted to the post iiospital at Fort Clark, Texas, on the following day. Dilute carbolic acid dressings were ai»plied. He recovered, and was sent to duty July 7, 1870.