166 EEPORT OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. At the same place, aud about the same time, a large bull-dog was bitten on the nose by a rattlesnake. A native remedy, probably of no value, was also used in this instance—the dog's nose, at aud in the vicinity of the wound, being severely pricked with sharp points of the Spanish bayonet [yucca). A ludicrous exaggeration of the animal's features ensued from the swelling of the tissues about the face and head; he seemed surly and ill for several days, but eventually recovered. CCCOXCII.—Bemarhs on Two Cases of Recovery from Bites of the Water Moccasin. By E. D. Blackwood, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private George Williams, 2d Infantry, was bitten at Patona, Alabama, by a water moccasin, {ToxicojMs piscivorus, B. &, G.) The snake was four feet in length; the wound was on the second phalanx of the left index finger. The finger was constricted above the wound, aud free bleeding from it encouraged. Whiskey was freely administered, three quarts {sic) being consumed in two hours succeeding the reception of the injury. Although the patient is not addicted to the use of alcoholic stimulants, he was not affected by the large quantity employed. Believing that a sufficient quan- tity of one poison had been used to neutralize the other, nothing further was done, and, except depression, no ill eifect followed. Next day the patient was as well as usual. That the reptile is capable of producing poisonous effects is evidenced by the case of a negro child of five or six years old, in whom serious prostration and stupor followed the bite of a similar snake. The localeffect was more marked than in Williams's case—the swelling greater, and the parts bitten tinged of a green hue, with considerable injection of the conjunctiva. The wound was over the malar bone. Fatal results from the bites of serpents are comparatively infrequent in this country. We are indebted to Dr. S. Weir Mitchell for dispelling many erroneous views on this subject.* It would appear that only some of the larger crotalidse are deadly, and even they rarely inflict fatal wounds. The adders and vipers and colubrine snakes are not hurt- ful. It is probable that only the larger male rattlesnakes, during the rutting season, have suflBcient venom to destroy life in the large mammals. Dr. J. T. Fayrer, of Calcutta, has had the kindness to supply me with his work on the Thanatophidia of India, soon to be published in London, in which the mortality from snake-bites in Bengal and adjacent provinces, including an area "rather less than half that of the peninsula of Hindostan " was in the year 1869, not less than. ll,416,f and it is his belief that the annual mortality in British India from this cause is not less than 20,000. I question whether so many deaths have occurred on this continent, from such cause, within the historical period. * See Dr. Mitchell's well-known papers in the Smithsonian Contrihutiona for 1861, North American Mcdico-Chirurgical Review, March, 1861, and in the American Journal of the Medical Sciences. t Fayeer. Indian Medical Gazette, January, 1870. X See also B. S. B.veton, Trans. Am. Phil. Society, Vol. Ill, p. 110; Fontana, Trait6 Sur la Venin de la viperes, ^c, (French trans.,) Florence, 1781; Russell, Account of Indian Serpents, t|-c., <f'c. Piorry, Bevue Medicate, 1826, p. 26; Ire- land, Med.-Chir. Trans., Vol. II, p. 398; Home, Fhil. Trans., 1830, p. 75; Boyer, Trait6 des Mai. Chir.,5<' eel., T. I, X). 799. Celsus, De Medicina, Edinburgh ed., 1809, Lib. V, cap. 3. Eedi, 06s. Int. alle Vipere, Firenze, 1664. Charas, Catesby, Barry.