EEPORT OF SUEGIOAL GASES IN THE AEMY. 114 SIMPLE AND COMPOUND FRACTURES AND LUXATIONS. There were returned, for the period covered by the reports, fifteen hundred and ninety- nine cases of simple and compound fractures, and six hundred and twenty-five cases of luxations. Some cases in which special reports were made are cited here, and others in connection with the reports on operations. COCLXXV.—Report of a Case of Fracture of the Shull. By J. Simons, Surgeon, U, S. A. Corporal George Adams, Co. E, 4tli Artillery, was brought to hospital about two o'clock on the morning of September 1, 1SG9, hy two of his comrades, who stated that he had been assaulted by unknown parties at Locust Point, about a mile from FortMcHenry, Maryland. Upon examiuatiou, an incised wound one and a half inches long was found at the back of the head, and a small, lacerated wound on the forehead, above the right eye. The man was questioned as to how and by whom the wounds wei^e inflicted; but he was too much under the influence of drink, and the effects of the injuries he had received, to give intelligible answers. He was placed in bed, and his wounds were dressed with cold applications. During the night he was delirious, and had convulsious, from which he passed into profound coma, with sterterous breathing, in which condition he remained until his death, at half-past ten the following morning. The autopsy made next day by the coroner, in the presence of a jury, revealed an extensive fractvire, about three inches long, commencing at the squamous portion of the temporal bone, and running in^ semicircular line through the posterior and inferior portion of the parietal bone, and extending also into the occipital. Another small fracture, joining the anterior termination of the first at an acute angle, detaching a small piece of the temporal bone. A thick layer of extravasated blood was found covering a large portion of the right cerebral hemisphere, in the neighborhood of the fractures. It is remarkable that, with such a severe injury of the head, the man was able to walk, with the assistance of his comrades, the distance of a mile from the place where he was wounded. CCCLXXVI.—Abstract of a Report of a Fracture of the Base of the Skull and of the Fibula. By John Ashhurst, Jr., M. D., Surgeon to the Episcopal Hospital. Joseph K. Alderfer, a discharged soldier, aged 25 years, was thrown from a wagon in Philadelphia, on August .31,1805, causing a fracture of the sphenoid bone, arising in the left greater wing, ijassing through the olivary i^rocess and right greater wing, and ending in the jjetrous portion of the right temporal bone. The upper end of the left fibula was also comminuted. He was admitted into the Episcopal hospital about an hour after the injury. There was a gTeat deal of ecchymosis of the left orbit. Blood flowed from the nose and mouth, and a large quantity had been swallowed and afterwards vomited. Pulse, 04; respiration somewhat labored; right pupil slightly contracted. He was restless, but rational. The injured limb was wrapped in pillows, ice applied to the head, and a teacupful of milk ordered every four hours. On the following day he Avas slightly delirious, pulse 68, arising to 112 on September 2d. Both pupils were contracted. Death resulted on Sep- tember 3, 180.5. At the autopsy, the membranes of the brain were found very much congested, containing about four ounc(!S of reddened serum, and there was slight congestion of the brain and lateral ventricles.* * Tliis abstract was w.idv by Hospital Steward Sawicllc, V. 8. A., froin notes h.v J)r. Jioiliuc. A lull account of Mic case is ])rintc(l in the AmirUnu Joiinial of thr .Vcdicdl Scioias, \dl. 1,11, p. 7u'.