EEPORT OF SUEGIOAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 138 CCOCX.XXlX.—3Iention of a Case of Frachire of the Leg. By W. E. Day, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private George Scott, Co. M, 3d Artillery, aged 21 years, sustained June 26, 1869, a com- pound fracture of tbe tibia and fibula of the right leg, by a blow from a lever of a capstan. He • was admitted to tbe post hospital at Fort Jefferson the same day. Cold water and simple dress- ings were applied. He was discharged from service March 5, 1870, on surgeon's certificate of disability, " by reason of shortening of the right leg." CCCCXL.—Mention of two Cases of Fracture of the Leg, successfully treated by Smithes Anterior Splint. By Irving C. Eosse, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Case 1.—On March 17, 1868, I was requested to see a Mexican vaquero who had broken his right leg in attempting to lasso a wild ox near Point Isabel, Texas. The animal had thrown the horse by means of a lariat made fast to the saddle, and both bones of the rider's leg were crushed by the fall. An anterior suspension wire splint was applied a few honrs after the reception of the injury. Several days subsequently, the friends of the patient desired to take him to his home, a ranche distant about twelve miles. Without seeking medical advice they caused him to make this journey on a mustang pony, the Eio Grande Eiver being crossed on the route. Strange to say, he suffered but little inconvenience from the ride, and made a good recovery in about six weeks. The patient was a young man accustomed to a diet of beef, beans {frijoles), and maize, and pos- sessed the physique common to persons of his vocation. Case 2.—John Wilson, aged about 50 years, mate of the brig ''Peerless,'' bound to Eio Janiero, had both bones of his right leg broken by getting caught in the cable whilst letting go anchor in Hampton Eoads on April 30, 1869. He was brought ashore at Fort Monroe, Virginia, and when seen was much depressed. The fragments of bone were properly adjusted, and Smith's ante- rior splint was applied to the injured member. Shortly afterward the patient was sent to his home in Baltimore, from which place he advised me of his successful recovery and return to his ordinary avocation. CCCCXLI.—Bemarlis on a Case of Fracture of the Tibia. By John I. Hulsb, M, D., Acting Assist- ant Surgeon. Private Louis Wilson, Co. F, 4th Cavalry, on April 16, 1868, while driving a quarter- master's team, on the road to Fort McKavett, Texas, being intoxicated and reeling to one side, was thrown from his seat by a wild mule, both wheels of the wagon going over both legs, bruising the left leg, and producing a compound comminuted fracture of the right tibia, jiist above the ankle-joint. He was brought to Fort Mason, Texas, a distance of sixteen miles, in an ambulance, and his injuries treated with simple dressings, the fractured leg being placed on a padded board, having a slight elevation. Inflammation soon subsided, and on the 27th instant he was returned to his command, with good jjrospect of complete recovery, and the following month returned to duty. Seven of these fractures of the leg were compound, and two were simple. All the patients recovered without much deformity except two, who were discharged for disability. Treatment by some form of suspensory apparatus appears to be generally preferred by the medical officers.