100 REPOKT OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. arm, which iiassed into the cavity of the axilla, and also entered the cavity of the thorax, pene- trating the superior lobe of the left lung, and terminating by a small opening into the aorta, a few lines without the pericardial sac." An interesting feature of this case was the rapid cooling of the body, after the stab, to the temperature of the surrounding medium, arising from the rapid and profuse loss of blood, both externally aud internally. [This man died April 4, 1868.—Ed.] CCCXXXI.—Minute of a Bayonet Wound of the Pectoral Muscles. By J. E. Weeds, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Hugh McClinty, Co. 11, 45th Infantry, aged 30 years, was wounded on January 3, 1SG9, by a bayonet, which entered the left side of the thoracic parieties, one and a half inches, at a point two inches above the nii)ple, passing upward and outward, and did not enter the thoracic cavity. He was admitted to the post hospital at Nashville, on the same day, and Avas returned to duty January 0, 1809. CCCXXXII.—Mention of a Penetrating Wound of the Lung. By C. C. Bykne, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John Tobin, Co. C, 19th Infantry, received, April 14, 1870, a penetrating wound of the lung, hj a pocket knife. He was admitted to the post hospital at Little Eock, Arkansas, ou the following day. Simple dressings were applied. He died on the ISth, from htemorrhage, CCCXXXIII.—Aceount of a Suicide from Stabbing the left Chest. '•^Hermetically Sealing'''' unavail- ingly employed. By J. Jorgekson, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Ambrose Zepp, Co. I, 31st Infantry, on January 18, 1868, while in an intoxicated con- dition, attempted to commit suicide at Earmville, Virginia, by stabbing himself with a sharp, long-bladed knife, in the left side of the chest, between the fourth and fifth ribs, about an inch to the left of the nipjile, perforating tlie pleural cavity. Tliere was very little bleeding from the orifice of the wound, and no expectoration of blood. The wound was closed and hermetically sealed; but, in the course of three or four days, it was found necessary, on account of accumula- tion of pus, to reopen the wound. Until six weeks ago he seemed constantly to improve. The inflammation of the pleura was reduced, and he suffered very little from cough. At that time diarrhoea set in, and he died on July 18th. CCCXXXIV.—Report of a Punctured Wound of the Stomach, ivith other Injiiries. By Edwin Bentley, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Corporal George Williams, Co. B, 12th Infantry, aged 24 years, a strong and robust man, received a punctured wound of the left side, in an encounter with a comrade, near Eussell Bar- racks, at Washington. A physician applied a roller bandage around the chest, and had the man conveyed to the post hospital twenty minutes after the reception of the injury. He had been eating and drinking freely, aud when admitted was suffering the most excruciating agony. He was immediately put under the influence of chloroform and the wound was examined. An inci- sion about three aud half inches in length was found between the sixth and seventh ribs, ou the anterior [)ortion of the left side. Through this opening nearly a handful of the greater omentum was luojecting. In rei)laciug this, two fingers were found to readily pass into the stomach, without enlarging the wound. The anterior portion of the stomach was drawn through the wound, and a portion of its engorged contents was taken out. A branch of the right gastro epiploic artery was ligated. The incision of one and a half inches in length was closed by the glover's stitch, and the organ, with its omentum, was replaced and the external wound closed by suture and pledgets of lint. A bandage was then api)lied. He was kept i)erfectly (piict and sufficiently easy to obtain several hours sleep, by the hypodermic use of a solution of morphia. He was allowed no nourishment but milk, a few teaspoonfuls of which relieved his throat and the inllanimation of the stomach very satisfactorily, much better even than ice, pieces of wliicli he was allowed to have con-