EEPOET OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE AEMT. 178 DXI.—Acconnt of a Primary Ampittation of the Fore-arm. By S. M. Hokton, Assistant Sur- geon, U. S. A. Private Jesse L. Judd, Co. H, ISth Infantry, aged 3C years, was wounded at Fort Philip Kearney, Dakota Territory, July 24, 18G6, by the accidental discharge of a revolver, which frac- tured the lower end of the left ulna, the unciform bone, and the third, fourth, and fifth meta- carpal bones. He was immediately admitted to the hospital of the fort. He was in a state of drunkenness bordering on delirium ti'emens, and there was great hiemorrhage from the hand. On the same day equal parts of ether and chloroform were administered, and the fore-arm amputated three inches above the wrist-joint, by the flap operation. Cold-water dressings were applied, and by the 20th of October, 186G, the stump was entirely healed. [The patient was discharged June 6,1867.] DXII.—Remarlcs on a Primary Amputation of the Fore-arm for Gunshot Injury. By James Shaw, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Charles E. Leonard, Co. B, 7th Infantry, aged 22 years, and of good constitution, while firing a national salute July 4, 18G8, at Fernandiua, Florida, was ramming home a cartridge in a field-piece, when it exploded, and he was thrown some seven or eight yards from its mouth. His right fore-arm Avas torn off six inches below the elbow-joint, and the soft parts of the arm were burned and lacerated up to the axilla. The thumb of the left hand was also blown off, exiiosing the end of the carpal bone. Being present at the time, I had him immediately carried into quarters, Avhereat once, after giving him some brandy and water and administering chloroform, I controlled the circulation, thereby losing very little blood, and amputated the fore-arm three or four inches below the elbow-joint, by the circular method. The soft parts were drawn across the end of the carpal bone left thumb, covering it very neatly. Stimulating and nourishing diet was given, and cataplasms were applied to the superior extremities and stomach, and soothing lotions to the wounds. The nervous shock was so severe, and the vital powers were so entirely prostrated, that all eftbrts in establishing reaction failed. During the forty-eight hours that he survived, he was only able to speak a few words. He died at 10 A. M., July 6, 1868. DXIII.—BemarJcs on a Primary Amimtation of the Fore arm for Gunshot Injury. By Burton Ean- DALL, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Thomas O'Conner, Battery A, 1st Artillery, aged 22 years, while guard-mounting, November 10, 1866, with his left hand over the muzzle of his gun, was wounded by its accidentally slipping and discharging, the ball producing a comjiouud fracture of the metacarpal bones of the first, second and third fingers and thumb, and i^assing through the bones of the cariius, with great destruction of the bones and soft parts. The parts were much burned and excessively inflamed. He was immediately admitted to the post hospital at Fort Trumbull, Connecticut, where, on the same day, chloroform was administered, and the fore-arm amputated just above the wrist, by the circular method. Simple dressings were applied. The stumj) healed, and the patient was discharged on March 13, 1867, with a pension of $15 per month. DXIV.—Bemarlcs on an Amputation of the Fore-Arm for Gunshot Injury. By C. B. Wright, Assist- ant Surgeon, U. S. A. Corporal "William Pare, Co. D, 57tli Infantry, aged 25 years, was wounded at Fort Smithy Arkansas, on February 22,1866, by the accidental discharge of a cannon, while firinga salute in honor of Washington's birthday. Being, at the time, in the act of loading the piece, the charge took effect in the right hand, comj)letel3^ destroying it and the integuments of the lower third of the • fore-arm. On the same day the fore-arm was amputated, by circular operation, at the junction of the upper thirds. Water dressings were applied. Anodynes at night, and a light and nourishing diet, were given. On March 31st the patient was convalescent. He was returned to duty in October, 1866.