AMPUTATIONS OF THE AEM. 181 very useful; loss of vision of left eye. Patient is able to write, and lias ridden over one hundred miles in the discharge of his duties as x^ost quartermaster. This officer was retired July 29, 18G8. DXXIII;—Report of an Amputation of the Arm and Fore-Arm for Gunshot Injury. By J. T, Ghiselin, Surgeon, U. S, A. Private Michael Casey, Battery A, 2d Artillery, aged 23 years, was wounded by the prema- ture discharge of a field piece, October 29, 1866, during review at Presidio of San Francisco, California. Both arms were very much lacerated. There was, also, a lacerated wound of the left breast, and fracture of the sixth rib, caused by a fragment of the sponge-staflf. He was admitted to the post hospital Presidio of San Francisco, California, on the same day, not much depressed by his injury, and Assistant Surgeon J. H. Kinsman, U. S, A., immediately administered ether and amputated _the right fore-„arni at the lower third, and the left arm at the upper third, by the circular method. Cold-water dressings were applied. The patient did well, and on December 31st the stumps had nearly healed. The wound of chest remained open, but was doing well. This man was discharged the service June 29, 18G7, for loss of both arms. DXXIV.—Bemarlis on a Primary Amputation of the Arm. By W. H. Smith, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Patrick Daley, Troop B, 8th Cavalry, aged 24 years, was wounded by Indians while guarding a train, May 6, 1869. The ball entered the left arm from the outside, shattered the humerus from the elbow-joint two-thirds its length upward, and imbedded itself among the fragments. On the same day he was admitted to the post hospital. Camp Verde, Arizona Territory. He rallied from the shock, his pulse was full and soft, and his spirits good. Toward the next morning he became feverish. He preferred amputation to any attemjit to save the arm. At 10 o'clock A. M., on the 7th, his arm being considerably swollen and inflamed, chloroform was administered, and it was amputated at the lower border of the upper third of humerus. The brachial artery and the muscu- lar branch were ligated. The flaps were shaped so as best to suit the wounds, and were bathed with cold water for an hour before bringing them together, and securing them with four sutures and adhesive plaster. IsTourishing diet, stimulants, tonics, &c., were prescribed, and the case pro- gressed excellently, throughout. Cold-water dressings and poultices were applied as required by the condition of the wound. The ligatures came away on the 18th of May, from the muscular branch, and on the 27th from the brachial artery. The pains felt as if in the lost arm, the nerves having been severed above the level of the end of the bone. He seemed to gain flesh during treat- ment, and on June 9th, he was seen playing ball out.side with the remaining hand. Stump excel- lent. This man was discharged the service October 5, 1869, for loss of fore-arm. DXXV.—Report of an Amputation of the Arm and Fore-Arm for Gunshot Injury. By S. M. HoETON, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private William Denney, Battery G, 5th Artillery, aged 23 years, while firing a salute on May 2,1870, was wounded by the premature explosion of a blank cartridge from a twelve-pounder cannon, which shot away and totally destroyed the right hand, leaving a lacerated stump, comminuted the right humerus, involving nearly the entire lower third, and produced a deep flesh wound of right arm in upper part of middle third, involving a portion of the biceps muscle; the left hand and wrist were shattered to pieces, and were hanging to the fore-arm by a few shreds of skin, tendon, and cellular tissue; the lower portion of his face and front portion of the neck were badly scorched by powder. The same day ether and chloroform were administered, and the right arm was amputated in the upper third, near the shoulder. Lateral flaps were made which were retained in apposition by five interrupted sutures and adhesive strips. Dry dressings, except lint, three-fourths inch wide, wrung out of warm water, were applied along the union or junction of flaps. I also amputated the left fore-arm in lower third, making anterio posterior flaps, which were retained in apposition by three interrupted sutures and adhesive strips. Dry dressings, except lint three-fourths inch wide, wrung