286 EEPORT OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. carefully observed case (p. 270) was instructive in relation to the therapeutic powers of the Calabar bean. In the earlier stages, he used the extract and tincture without any- marked effect on the pupil or upon the severity of the paroxysms. He then procured a parcel of the beans from the museum, and used an infusion of the grated kernels, with the uniform effect of contracting the pupil and redacing the frequency and severity of the spasms. He assured me that he believed that he might have saved his patient if he could have employed this remedy earlier. In the past few years, I have had the oppor- tunity of examining the brain and spinal cord after tetanus in three instances only, twice in the human subject and once in the horse. Only hypertemia of the membranes was observed. The proliferation of connective tissue in the cord and medulla, proposed as the constant anatomical lesion of tetanus^ by some German pathologists, was nowhere detected. The reports on a death from chloroform and on a successful transfusion in thoracic aneurism leave much to be desired in details of diagnosis. Several reports on surgical diseases are followed by accounts of three instances of lightning-stroke, an interesting autopsy having been made in the fatal case. Dr. McGill's essay on osteoplastic amputa- tions concludes the series of papers. I have appended to the report an index of contributors, an index of patients, and a table of contents, as readers of some of the former surgical reports have justly complained of the want of facilities for reference in documents of such length. The compilation and discussion of the surgical annals and statistics of the war of the rebellion have engrossed the time and attention of this Division to such an extent as to preclude the possibility of compiling the report with the closest care ; yet it may be hoped that the value of the facts brought together, and the interest of many of the abstracts of cases, will compen- sate for all faults in the report. I am. General, very respectfully, your obedient servant, GEORGE A. OTIS, Assistant Surgeon, U. 8. A. Brigadier General J. K. Barnes, Surgeon General, U. S. Army.