142 EEPOET OF SUEGIOAL CASES IN THE AEMY. of diagnosis. The luxation was caused by a lai-ge stick of wood striking the humerus upon its posterior and outer aspect, and thus, in reality, throwing the humerus forward upon the ulna and radius. The patient was placed in a recumbent position upon the floor, and anaesthetized by means of equal parts of chloroform and ether. A guy of strong material, having a loop, was attached just above the wrist of the afiected arm, and the loop was passed around my neck and shoulders, thus increasing the power of extension. Counter-extension was produced hy placing my heel in the bend of the arm, and thus also furnishing a fulcrum over which the forearm was bent, when the bones began to yield by'extension. Eeduction by this mode was soon accomplished. Bandages carefully applied over splints, and the usual antiphlogivstic remedies and evaporating lotions were resorted to. Passive motion, the swelling having diminished, was also resorted to, in order to prevent anchylosis. The man was returned to duty in February, 18G8. Dislocations at the Wrist.—A single special report on this subject furnishes an additional fact for those surgeons who do not share Dupuytren's incredulity as to luxa- tions at the wrist, without concomitant fracture of the radius. CCCCXLVIII.—On a Case of Dislocation of the Wrist. By D. F. Damour, M. B., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Joseph M. Choate, Troop B, 1st Cavalry, aged 23 years, while acting in the capacity of teamster, was injured by falling from one of the wheel mules while the animals were stamped- ing, dislocating- his left wrist. The carpiis was displaced backward, and the lower end of the radius and xdna toward the palmar surface; the pisiform bone was also displaced. He was admitted to the hospital at Camp McGarry, Nevada, and the dislocation reduced at the time, and treated by applying- splints and bandages, which were continued to October 1, 1867, without producing the desired result. The carpal bones were displaced on the dorsal surface, on the removal of the splints and roller, the same as before, and the joint remained loose and flabby. The soldier was returned to light duty on October 1st, but, on the 7th, readmitted to hospital, and, on November 17tli, the splints and roller were reapplied, with a view of giving support and ease to the injured parts. He was discharged from service March 20,1808, at which time it was believed he could not regain the use of his left hand. Dislocations of the Metacarpals.—The rarity of luxations of the last four meta- carpals, the cases observed by Bourguet, Blandin, and Roux, being cited by authors as altogether exceptional, adds to the interest of the following abstract; CCCCXLIX.—Mention of a Dislocation of the Second Metacarpal Bone. By J. F. Head, Surgeon, U. S. A. At West Point, New York, in the beginning of April, 1868, Charles Conway, corporal. Ord- nance Department, was holding a drill in his right hand for another man to strike, when, sud- denly, the hammerhead flew oft", and struck a glancing blow on the back of his hand. Although the hand was covered with a thick buckskin mitten, it was rendered helpless by the blow; and on taking off the mitten, he noticed an irregularity in its appearance. I saw him about half an hour after the accident, when there was, already, some swelling, but not sufiScient to conceal a marked depression on the back of the hand, over the carpal end of the second metacarpal bone. The bone was felt running- down toward the palm, and with its base on a lower level than the next bone. It was fixed in this position, and no crepitus could be detected. As there was, evidently, a dislo- cation, I attempted to reduce it by making extension from the finger, and at tiie same time pressing, with my thumb in the palm of the hand, against the base of the metacarpal bone. It almost imme- diately, and with a snap, returned to its proper place. I then bandaged the hand, with a ball of tow ill the palm. The swelling gradually disappeared, and on April 13, 1868, the man was returned to duty.