EErOIiT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 230 tbe shaft was sawn several iuches below the lesser trochanter. The wound was then cleansed and approxunated. Scarcely any lu^niorrhage took place, no ligatures being required. On recovei ing from the anii;sthetic, the patient complained of great pain and nausea. Brandy was administered and half a grain of sulphate of morphia; but there was such irritability of stomach that everything Avas rejected. A quarter of a grain of sulphate of morphia was then administered hypodermically, and this relieved the pain. But there was no decided reaction, and, sinking gradually, the patient died from the shock of the operation, twenty hours after its completion. No autopsy was njade. The shattered excised bones were sent to the Army Medical Museum, and are represented in the preceding wood-cut, (Fig. 48.) Many of the fragments were carious.* DCXL.—Accoimt of a Case of Excision of the Hip-Joint for Gunshot Injury. Condensed from Detailed Eeports. Private Hubert Erne, Co. D, 4th Infantry, aged 48 years, while acting as oue of a corporal's guard escorting the mail wagon from Fort Laramie to Fort Fetterman, Avas wounded in an attack on the i)arty by a baud of Indians December 2, 18G9. He was struck in the left hij) by a musket ball, and fell to the ground. His comrades placed him in the mail wagon and returned as rapidly as circumstances would permit to Fort Laramie, from which they were distant about thirty-two miles. The wound was received at two in the afternoon, and the i^atient was i)laced in bed in the hospital by half past seven. He had been driven over a very rough road, and was much exhausted. He had lost considerable blood, and his feet and hands were cold, and circulation feeble, the pulse being almost imperceptible, while his face was pale and covered with a clammy persi^iration. There .was shortening of the left lower extremity, with eversion of the foot, and the thigh was arched with an anterior convexity. The aperture of entrance of the ball was oue and a half iuches behind and slightly above the trochanter major. The aperture of exit was near the centre and just below Poupart's ligament, directly over the femoral artery. The diagnosis was fracture of the shaft, neck, and trochanters of the left femur. As he had not rallied from the shock, it was thought best to defer surgical interference until morning, and the limb was placed in a comfortable i)osition, and the patient was ordered to take a half ounce of brandy every half hour, and external applications of heat were made by hot blankets, heated sad-irons, and bottles of hot water. The circulation was gradually restored. At midnight the patient had reacted, but comi^lained of great pain in the middle of the thigh, and a fourth of a grain of morphia was ordered, to be repeated everj- two hours, if needed ; the stimulant was continued. At half past seven in the morning of December 3, it was found that the patient had fully recovered from the shock, and was comfortable, with a good i)ulse at 90. He had no appetite, and had slept but little during the uight. There was pain of the thigh below the wound, but it was not excessive. The temperature in the axilla was 99.2. Cold-water dressings were applied to the wound, and milk punch was given freely, with an eighth of a grain of sulphate of morphia every two hours. At 1 o'clock, December 3d, Post Surgeon F. Meacham, Assistant Sm-geon, U. S. A., assisted by Assistant Surgeon J. B. Girard, U. S. A., who was visiting him, made a thorough exploration of the injury, placing the patient under chloroform, and enlarging the entrance wound to admit the finger. It was ascertained that the neck and trochanters were shattered, and the shaft of the femur was splintered for a short distance below. No important vessels or nerves were injured. The patient was an old soldier; he had been a hard drinker, and during the late war had been several times wouuded, having on one occasion suffered a gunshot fracture of the lower jaw After a careful consideration of all the circumstances, local and constitutional, it was decided that excision of the upper extremity of the femur would afford the patient the best chance of life, and Assistant Surgeon Meacham immediately proceeded with the operation. He made a curvilinear incision seven inches in length, commencing an inch and a half above the trochanter, through the wound of entrance, and then vertically i)arallel to the shaft. Exposing the bone by a rapid dissection, the fragments of the shaft and trochanters were first removed, and the sharp extremity of the shaft was taken off * See Circular No. 2 S. G. O., 1869, p. 60.