57 GUNSHOT FLESH-WOUNDS OF THE TRUNK. Gunshot Flesh-Wounds of the Trunk.—The cases reported were not very impor- tant and the special reports forwarded not numerous. CLXXX.—Note of a Case of Gunshot Flesh- Wound of the Tninlc. By J. P. Arthur, Assistant Surgeon 36tli United States Colored Troops. Private Samuel Willinare, Co. 116th Colored Troops, aged 20 years, received, on July 10, 186G, an accidental gunshot flesh-wound of the right hypochondriac region. A conoidal ball had entered between the ninth and tenth ribs. He was admitted to the post hospital at Brazos San- tiago, Texas, on July 10, 18GG. The ball was found lodged in the intercostal muscles, and was extracted. Simple dressings were ai)plied. He was returned to duty on September 26, 1866. CLXXXI.—Memorandum of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Buttock. By L. W. Hayes, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. At Camp Wiiifield Scott, Nevada, April 29, 1868, Lieutenant Pendleton Huntex', 8th Cavalry, was wounded in a fight with Indians. The bullet entered the outer part of the right buttock, and I)assed in the direction of the pelvic viscera. He also received a slight flesh-wound of the right fore-arm. No serious complications followed, and the officer was returned to duty in March, 1868. OLXXXII.—Minute of a Gunshot Flesh- Wound of the Abdomen. By J. F. King, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Hermon W. Seyforth, Co. C, 8th Lifantry, aged 28 years, received a gunshot wound of the abdominal walls, on May 6,1870, from a conoidal revolver bullet. He was admitted from his company on the same day to the -post hospital at Spartanburg, South Carolina. Cold-water dress- ings were applied, and anodynes were administered. He was returned to duty on June 3, 1870. CLXXXIII.—Note of a Gunshot Flesh- Wound of the Abdomen. By J. W. Williams, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Julius Cooper, Co. A, 21st Colored Troops, aged 20 years, was wounded in a riot at Hilton Head, South Carolina, on April 1, 1866, by a i)istol bullet which penetrated the parieties of the abdomen, and lodged. He was admitted into the United States Array general hospital at Hil- ton Head, on April 2d. Simple dressings were used. He was returned to duty on April 11, 1866. CLXXXIV.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Pubes. By S. T. Weirick, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private David W. Jones, Co. A, 16th Infantry, aged 27 jears, received on March 6, 1869, a gunshot wound immediately above and to the right of the penis, striking the pubis and ranging to the right and downward into the thigh, the parts being very much contused. He was treated at the regimental hospital of a detachment of the 16th Infantry. The surgeon removed fragments of cloth, thread, &c., and applied cold-water dressings. The ball was not found. The wound healed, and the man was returned to duty on March 25, 1869. CLXXXV—Memorandum of a Gunshot Womid of the Lumbar Region. By Samuel S. Jessop, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Hugh Monanghan, Co. E, 8th Infantry, aged 21 years, was accidentallj' wounded at Chester, South Carolina, on October 14, 1866, by fragments of a ball which entered the right lum- bar region, one piece grazing the posterior crest of the ilium, passing out and perforating the fleshy part of the fore arm on the ulnar side, while the other entered a little below the former and lodged .under the integument. He was admitted to the post hospital October 11,1866, and portions of the ball and pieces of clothing were extracted on the same day. 8