ARROW-WOUNDS. 147 skull and diiKi mater. Being aclmitted to hospital on the same day, he was chloroformed, and ail operation for extraction was immediately performed. This consisted in sawing nearly through the skull v.'itli a Hey's saw, in close proximity to the arrow. The condition of the injured parts Avas healthy at the time of operation, and the patient's constitutional state was good. The treat- ment consisted in rest, low diet, elevation of the head, cold applications, and saline cathartics. Recoverj^ was rapid, and he returned to duty on June 7, 1869. COCOLIX.—Extracts from Reports of Side and Wounded at Fort McDotvell, Arizona Territory. April and May, 186G. By Charles Smart, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Andrew Snowdon, Co. B, 3d Battalion, l-ith Infantry, was one of a party surprised by Apaches, March 22, 1860, while en route from Maricopa Wells to Fort Goodwin. He was struck on the back of the head by an arrow, which iienetrated his skull. It is said that he was nine days in traveling to Maricopa Wells from the place where he was wounded. On his arrival there he is stated to have been weak and fatigued, but with his intelligence unimpaired. He believed the arrow-head to be within the cranium, as in liulliug on the shaft after the reception of the injury, nothing but the shaft came away. On or about the 10th or 12th of April, he lost his appetite, felt considerable nausea, and appeared to those around somewhat dull and stupid. He rapidly grew worse, so that it was considered advisible to send him to the post for treathient. He was placed on a hay wagon, and made the journey to Salt River on that conveyance—a distance of thirty miles. At this time I was notified concerning the case, and instructed to proceed to Salt River with our ambulance for him. I found him with a full pulse, slow, and somewhat hard; his mental faculties much clouded; hearing distinctly, and giving answer to every question, althongh the answer seldom contained the information desired. He tried to remember his name, but could not. He was troubled with a very persistent vomiting. On April 19th, he was received into the liost hospital; an active cathartic was administered, his head shaved, and cold dressings applied. During the day his stupor increased to such an extent that the sharpest tone failed to make an impression on him. His pulse 50, full and hard ; vomiting much abated. On the 20th, the purgative was repeated, as it had as yet been without effect. The scalp was examined, discovering a small tumefaction, in which was an ill defined sense of fluctuation, situated over the i)arietal side of the left occipito parietal suture. Pressure exercised upon it caused the issue of a small quantity of serous matter from a point in the cicatrix of the arrow-wound. This was enlarged, and a probe passed into it was made to feel along a fissure in the bone, when it struck upon some- thing metallic. The cranium was laid bare by a crucial incision, and with considera- ble difflcidty a hoop-iron arrow-head, one and three-quarter inches long, and half an inch in breadth, was withdrawn from the brain. About a drachm of pus followed it in its exit. During the i^rocednre the patient laj" quiet, except when at times, with- out any assignjible cause, he would burst into a violent scream. After the operation, which was not noticed previous to it, the right side was observed to be paralyzed. April 21st: Pulse as before. Insensibility great. Paralysis of right side more marked ; features drawn to wounded side. Has not eaten anything since his admit- tance, nor for several days previous to that time. Passes his urine when the nurse solicits him, by the application of the urinal. Bowels unmoved, a cathartic enema was administered. 22d: Seems slightly improved. Enema brought away nothing, but during the afternoon of yesterday he had a large involuntary passage. Has eaten nothing; swallows a mouthful of tea occasionally. Pulse 50, 24th: Has eaten nothing—no improvement—pulse less full, and more compressible. 26th: Yesterday, fig-23. ii ou took a few teaspoonfuls of custard. In afternoon, was feverish and delirious. Enema tractld Ti 0*^0 administered. Features sunken and distorted. 27th: Much improved. Has eaten tbebiain. spcc. considerably of a farinaceous preparation. Face more regular in expression. Pulse ^54^sect.i, a. 54, softened. Answers questions readily, but not to the purpose. Cannot remember his name. 30th: Steady improvement. Has eaten well every day since last report. Pnlse G8. Hemiplegia unobservable. Has remembered name, and at times take an interest in what is going on in the ward. Wound of operation healing kindly.