GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE LOWER EXTEEMITIES. 71 the lower fragment; it wonld at least, certainly be very tedious, if not imperfect. It seems to me I'rom what little experience I have liad in the West, that in this dry and bracing climate where wounds generally do well, excision of the hip-joint in cases like the present, would benefit the patient far more than expectant measures. If another case of this kind comes under my care, I will be strongly temi)ted to excise. The specimen is figured in the adjoining wood-cut, (Fig. 11.) OCXLIII.—Report of a Fatal Case of Gunshot Fracture of the Bight Femur. By Dr. 0. C. Eau- MORE, 114th Eegiment of Colored Troops. Private Henry Jefferson, Co. F, 19th Colored Troops, of a delicate constitution, was admitted, August 30, 1865, to the post hospital at Brownsville, Texas. The ijatient had accidentally received, two weeks before his admission, a severe gunshot wound, which was found upon examina- tion that the ball had entered about two inches anterior and inferior to the trochanter major, i>ro- ducing a compound comminuted fracture of right femur. The ordinary dressings were applied, and the patient seemed to be doing well during the first two weeks of his stay in the hospital. On September 20th, it was deemed necessarj', in consequence of the profuse suppuration and extensive sloughing of the muscular structures of adjoining parts, which bad set in a few days previous, to cut down uj)on, and examine the condition of the wound. A free incision was consequently made, and a few small spiculse of bone removed, and, after a careful examination of tbe parts was made, was unable to find the location of the ball, yet nothing presented itself to warrant an unfavorable issue. The same profuse suppuration continued, notwithstanding the free use of tonics and stimu- lants, together with good nutritious diet. The patient continued to sink, and died November 17, 1865, being two months and eighteen days from receipt of injury. Sectio cadaveris 24 hours after death. The body considerably emaciated. On examining the fractured limb, found an oblique fracture to exist extending across the inter trochanteric line, one half inch inferior to the trochan- ter major, with two radiating fractures extending from the main fracture in a superior direction within the capsular ligament. The ball must liave fractured itself in two j)ieces as soon as it came in contact with the bone, as eacb piece was found to be firmly embedded in each end of tlie frac- tured bone, and distant from each other about lialf an inch, with no i^rospect of reunion taking- place. CCXLIV.—Report of a fatal Case of Oimshot Fracture of the Femur. By Wm. M. Notson, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Haller, a citizen, aged about 21 years, bad a gunshot fracture of the femur, in the upper jiart of the middle third, caused by the accidental discharge of a pistol in the hand of a soldier, on the evening of August 25, 1870. The parties were bunting about fifteen miles from Fort Concho, Texas. Ui)on reception of the injury, he was assisted into the river, and sat in tbe water all night, for tbe purpose of keeping off insects, and to relieve the pain. He was brought to the post the next day in a wagon. It was determined, on account of his youth and temperate habits, to make an eftbrt to save the limb. Being wearied from his journey and exiiosure, he was placed in a com- fortable position, and an anodyne administered; the next morning a wire splint was applied, and an examination of the parts made, some spiculse of bone removed, and an operation determined on; the intervening time was occupied in arranging permanent appliances for the continued use of the anterior splint. August 28th, 11 A. M., an incision was made through the Avound, and the loose fragments of bone, and i^ortion of the ball removed, and the extremity of the broken bone cut off with bone forceps, until about two inches had been removed. Opportunity was afforded for free drainage, and carbolized water dressing applied. The next day pointing being noticed in the under portion of the thigh, it was opened, and the remainder of the ball removed. This being a favorable direction, the track of the ball was kept open by a tent until suppuration was fi-eely established. The patient was placed in the ward under the charge of Acting Assistant Surgeon J. A. McCoy, by whom the surgical dressing, treatment, and care of the case was efficiently carried out. On the twenty-sixth day after the operation, some union being evident, on account of much fever of a typhoid character being in the hosiiital, and the exhausted and debilitated condition of