197 AMPUTATIONS OF THE LEG. I)oiutiug' directly over the iuuer malleolus, Nvas opened; tlie wound was sloagliing, and tbe joint was entirely open. Amputation being decided on, the patient partook freely of beef tea and milk l)uuch until the night previous to the operation. On the Cth, the directions having been carried out, he was readily brought under the influence of chloroform, and the leg was amputated at the junction of the lower thirds by the half-flap method. There was considerable venous haemorrhage but by evening he was rallying well. Morphine was given immediately after the operation, and Avas repeated at night. The stumi) was dressed with liniment composed of carbolic acid and linseed oil. There was no nausea following the operation, owing, in a great measure, it was believed, to previous abstinence from solid food. Milk punch and beef tea were'continued, the appetite improved, and the case was progressing favorably. On the 14th, the whole of the inner half of the wound had closed by first intention; there was, however, considerable suppuration on the outer side of the stumj), and pus could be pressed fi-om within two inches of the knee-joint, for which there appeared to be free exit. He did not rest well during the night, and, on the next morning, there was htemorrhage from the outer side of the stumi^, probably from the anterior tibial artery, which was controlled by the tourniquet. Persulphate of iron was also applied, the stump was dressed with an iced solution of acetate of lead, a compress and bandage secured over the poi)liteal artery, and the leg elevated; an opiate was immediately given. An abscess beneath the fascia lata of the thigh was opened, and bandaged. On the morning of the 17th, htemorrhage recurring, was promptly arrested, and compress over the popliteal reapplied, but, again occurring on the following morning, the patient was chloroformed, and the popliteal artery was ligated at its lower third. Two articular branches were severed during the operation, requiring ligation. The incision was drawn together by four interrupted sutures, and the edges adapted by adhesive plaster. The stump was again dressed with carbolic acid liniment. Stimulants, morphine, and tonic mixtures. On the 21st, the stump began to have a more healthy appearance, and on the 27th, the ligature came away, and the incision was almost healed. The abscess of the thigh continued to discharge several ounces of pus, but it had a more healthy appearance. On November 10th, the stump had nearly healed, the abscess had closed, and the patient was able to sit up. He had a severe chill during the night, followed by diarrhoea; pulse 100; skin hot and dry, and tongue coated. Quinine was given. On the 12th, the thigh was much swollen, and a discharge of watery fluid Avas pressed from the old opening. On the next day, the swelling had abated, and the patient's appetite was improving. During the month, one or two small pieces of necrosed bone were removed from, the stumj), which had entirely healed by December 1st, the patient being able to walk around on crutches. Discharged July 21,1809, and j)ensioued at $15 per month. DLXI.—Account of a Ue-amputation of Both Legs.—Compiled from various Eeports. Private Jacob Bisbing, Troop 0, 2d Cavalry, had both feet frozen while on duty as a mail escort from Fort Laramie to Fort Philip Kearney, January 5, 1867. He was admitted to post hospital at Fort Eeno, January 6, 1867, where both feet were amputated January 16, 1867, by E. H. Eeed, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Owing to bad hygienic surroundings the wounds healed very slowly, and the patient suffered with conical and painful stumps. On July 21, 1867, both feet were re-amputated by Charles Mackin, jr., Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Bisbing was discharged September 28,1867, and pensioned at $20 per month. DLXIL—Account of Several Amjpiitations, one of which teas a Be-amputation of the Leg. Private Charles O. F. Clark, Co. G, 1st Oregon Volunteers, had, on December 17, 1865, while on a march between the mouth of the Eiver Owyhee and the Malheur Eiver, Oregon, the lower and upper extremities frozen. He was conveyed to Camp Auburn, where the second and third fingers of the right hand, the left leg, and the right foot were amputated, the latter by Chopart's operation. The end of the second finger of the left hand sloughed off. He was mustered out of service on April 14, 1866. On November 9, 1868, at Bellevue Hospital, New York, Professor Hamilton re-amputated the left leg, five inches below the knee. On April 5, 1870, the patient was