LACERATED AND CONTUSED WOUNDS. 107 were thought to have passed over him, from the right hip, over the thorax. The patient was suffering, upon admission, from shock and extreme depression, his extremities cold, his wrist almost pulseless. But he was perfectly conscious, the action of the heart was feeble but regular, 104 to the minute; respiration, 44. Any movement was evidently repressed and painful. No rales upon auscultation, some dullness over lower portion of right lung; great tenderness over hepatic region, with nausea and vomiting. Upon percussion over the right hypochondriac region, much pain was experienced. The diagnosis arrived at was, that there was a rupture of the liver. Stimu- lants and anodynes were ordered, the former continued every hour during the night; hot applica- tions to extremities. Patient rallied a little after a few hours, but no permanent improvement was observed. Death occurred at 7.30 A. M. of the following day, the patient having passed, through the night, a quantity of nearly pure blood from the bladder. A post-mortem examination, ten hours after death, revealed a rupture of the liver, through nearly the entire extent of its antero posterior diameter, following the junction of the right with the left and quadrate lobes, to withiu one inch of the anterior border of the organ. Also, a fracture of the sternum, at the junction of its upper and middle third, fracture of the eighth rib, two inches in front of its angle. The right lung was engorged, with a small puncture over the anterior aspect of its upper lobe, from the broken end of sternum. A large effusion of blood into the abdominal cavity was found, and a longitudinal mix- ture of the right kidney, throughout nearly its entire extent. The bladder was normal and empty. CCCLTX.—Case of Rupture of the Spleen. By J. F. Weeds, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Michael , Co. C, 45th Infantry, while boxing with a comrade in the store of the post-trader at Nashville, Tennessee, July 3, 1869, received a comparatively light blow with the palm of the hand in the left hypogastric region. Eyan turned away, saying nothing, and walked on to the veranda, where, in a few moments, he fainted, and was carried to his company quarters. I visited him eight or ten minutes after the accident, at which time the j)ulse had ceased to beat at the carotid ; the skin was blanched; the jjupil fully dilated, and respiration, merely a gasp, repeated three or four times a minute. Death supervened in less than a quarter of an hour after the recep- tion of the blow, with symptoms of shock and htemorrhage. An autopsy, two hours after death, revealed the abdominal cavity filled with blood. This flowed from extensive fissures in the spleen, which was enlarged and softened, measured five by seven inches in diameter, and was two inches thick, weighing fourteen ounces. All the other abdominal viscera were normal; there were old pleuritic adhesions of the left side ; in all other respects, the thoracic viscera was in a healthy con- dition. The pathological specimen, consisting of the spleen, is number .5600, Section 1, Army Medical Museum, and was forwarded with the history of the case. CCCLX.—Bemarlcs on a Case of Contusion of the Abdomen. By B. E. Fryer, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Lewis Metcalf, Co. H, 5th Infantry, on duty as teamster in the Quartermaster's Department, was admitted into the post hospital at Fort Harker, Kansas, August 20, 1870, just after the reception of a kick in the abdomen from a mule. He was bordering on a collapsed state ; the pulse was scarcely perceptible at the wrist, and the surface was cold, with a clammy sweat resting on it. No marks of the kick were visible, though the man stated, after reaction had fol- lowed on careful use of stimulants, that the blow was received on the abdomen in the left hypo- chondriac region. He now complained of severe pain, which was promptly relieved by ten-grain doses of chloral hydrate. On the fifth day after the injury the bowels were relieved by an enema, and on August 28th he was able to be about the ward. September 4, 1870 : Metcalf was returned to his duty in the Quartermaster's Department, with a request that, for a time, some light work be assigned him. From this period until the date of readmission into the hospital, (42 days'interval,) he was watchman at the quartermaster's stable, which gave him nothing but the lightest duty. On October 15th, the man, comi)laining of being weak and constipated, was given a mild aperient, marked " sick in quarters," and directed to keep quiet; but, disobeying this injunction, he got per- mission from his commander to go to the neighboring town, some three miles distant, where he pur- chased and ate a large quantity of pies, huts, &c., which, he said, made him vomit. He reported