REPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 204 tliigli. On the after treatment, the flaps were kept partly separated, so as to favor a free exit of pus. There was eonsiderable retraction, and the period of cicatrization was much prolonged. Abscesses forming- above the wound, and extending upward between the muscles of the thigh, gave a good deal of trouble. These were met by free incivsions and the injection of antiseptic lotions. The i)atient's system being reduced, and the season hot, careful nursing and suppoi-ting treatment were required to carry him through the long period of cicatrization. May 3Lst (end of hist month), 9 A.M.: Pulse 116; temperature 98}; 9 P.M.: Pulse 116; temperature 9Si^; stump suppurating freely; flaps somewhat sloughy in the last two weeks. Antiseptic lotions and carbon poultices applied; the flaps now look healthier. June 3()th (end of second month), 9 A. M.: Pulse 112; tempei'atni'e 98. 9 P.M.: Pulse 116; temperature 99. The patient has gained strength in the past month; stump healing up; suppuration not more than one ounce per day. July 31,1870 (end of third month): Pulse find tongue and temperature normal; stump healed over; patient walking about with a long, well-rounded and ajiparently useful stump. He was transferred on May 15, 1871, to join his command at Tucson, Arizona Territorj'. Case II.—Private Louis Shire, Troop F, 3d Cavalry, was shot by Apache Indians on October 6, 1870. The ball entered the left leg inside of and a little above the patella, passed into the centre of the internal coiulyle, imbedding itself there and splitting the bone down into the joint. The patient was obliged to ride thirty-flve miles on horseback, and did not arrive at the hos])ital till the next afternoon of October 7th. The knee was then found to be much swollen and very painful. Pulse 112 and quick; skin hot. Exploring the wound carefully, I could not And the ball, but concluded it had entered the joint and lodged within or near it. The patient's condition was much depressed and irritable. He was greatly fatigued by travel and loss of sleep, and the knee was already much inflamed. Hence, I thought best to defer amputation until a more favorable time. On October 8th the pulse was 110, the general condition about the same, only the pain and swelling were increased. October 9th: i^ulse 112; the patient had slept pretty well; but his condition was still irritable. On October 10th, pulse 100, knee and thigh less swollen, and there was less general irritability. October 11th: jiulse 102 and lirmer;.general condition improved; less complaint of pain; inflammation in knee less acute. Amputation at 11 A. M. The method adopted was by making a long flap anteriorly, and a short one posteriorly. The condyles were sawn ott" about an inch ; the ball was turned out of its bed, and a piece of bone, the size of a hen's egg, which had been split off from the internal condyle, was removed by forceps. The anjesthetic used was sulphuric ether. There was very little hiBmorrhage, but considerable shock. At 9 P. M., the pulse beat 136; the reaction was pretty good. October 12th, 9 A. M., pulse 118; 9 P. M., pulse 120; skin hot. In the after treatment no attempt was made to get i^rimary union of the flaps ; free outlet was given for suppuration; and antiseptic lotions and dressings were fi^eely used. There was an early tendency to sloughing in the anterior flaj); carbon poultices were then applied, and the edges of the daily flai) were touched with lunar caustic. After the separation of a large slough, the edges being cauterized, the stump assumed a healthier apjiearance. An abscess formed among the muscles above the knee, and became the seat of a good deal of suppuration. This was opened and daily injected with antiseptic lotions of chloride of zinc and Labaraque's solution of chlorinated soda, and it gradually diminished. On December 1, 1870, about seven weeks after the operation, the stump was almost entirely closed up, and the i>atieut was able to walk about on crutches. He, too, has a stump that will probably serve well for locomotion. On May 15, 1871, the patient was transferred to join his command at Tucson, Arizona. DLXXXIII.—Memorandum relative to an Amputation at tlie Knee-Joint. From Data furnished by J. R. Reily, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon.- Robert Realey, a lad of 10 years, was struck on the right instep by a stone seven weeks previous to the operation below mentioned, when inflammation was at once lighted up, and periostitis rapidly extended up the limb, which was much swollen and very painful ten days after the accident. Fluc- tuation being detected at the internal malleolus, an incision was made, which gave exit to more