250 EEPOUT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. tbeu liermeti<;ally sealed. The patient reacted, and continued to do well until December 2d, wben pyaemia supervened, and deatb occurred December 8,18G7. Ofeeations on the Abdomex.—A number of cases of paracentesis are mentioned in the reports and several operations for hernia, but without names or details. The reader has not overlooked the cases of gunshot wounds of the abdomen in which balls were removed (pp. 44, 49 ante), nor the remarkable instances of recovery after the protrusions of the intestines from incised wounds (pp. 93, 95). The remaining reports coming under this head relate to a successful removal of a mass of omentum, operations for fistula, for imperforate anus, and for haemorrhoids. DOLXXXV.—.Account of a Case in uiMch a Portion of Omentum icas successfully removed. By G. ]\r. Sternberg, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Brevet Lieutenant Colonel Albert Barnitz, captain 7tb Cavalry, aged 33, was wounded on November 27, 18G8, at the battle of Wichita, Indian Territory, by a ball from a Lancaster lifle, which entered the left side of the abdomen, just below the free margin of the false ribs, four and one-half inches to the left of the umbilicus, and emerged behind, three and one-half inches to the left of the central line of the vertebral column. The colonel was mounted when wounded, and killed the Indian who shot him at the same instant that he received his wound. The Indian was only about fifteen feet from him when they exchanged shots. After receiving the wouiid the colonel rode about two liundred yards, disuu)unted and laid down, holding his horse until some of his company came to him. About half an hour afterward he Avas examined by Assistant Surgeon Lippincott, TJ. S.. A., who found a mass of omentum protruding from the anterior wound, about the size of a man's fist. The doctor supposed, from the position of the wound, that the intestine must be wounded, and that the injury must necessarily prove fatal. The colonel was brought to Camp Supply in an ambulance, the distance being about one liundred miles, and the country exceedingly rough. He arrived at this place on December 1st, at which time I took charge of his case. He was not able to take any food or stimulus on the way in, on account of the irritability of his stomach, which rejected everything except a little water. I found him very much fatigued by the journey, but having a good pulse and presenting no bad symptoms. The mass of omentum protruded from the anterior Avouiid as at first, completely closing it, and preventing any air from entering or fluid from escaping. I think that adhesion had already taken place to a certain extent between the constricted portion of the omentum and the si<les of the wound.^ From the posterior wound there was a very free discharge of bloody serum, which from day to day decreased in quantity, and gradually changed to a discharge of healthy pus. In a day or two after his arrival the protruding mass of omentum became covered with florid granulations bathed with thick pus. Small quantities of beef-tea and wine were retaiued the day of his arrival and larger amounts were given from day to day without any return of the vomiting. No medi- cine has been administered to this date, except one grain of quinine three times a day, as a tonic, and two quarter-grain doses of morphine, the first two nights after his arrival, to jirocure sleep. There was no movement of the bowels from date of injury until December 7th, when two copious and natural passages occurred. On the 8th I removed the protruding mass of omentum. I commenced the operation with a wire ecraseur, but before it was completed the loop of wire broke and I severed a small portion, which was not yet cut through, with scissors. A small artery in the portion cut by the scissors bled for a few moments, but the hiemorrhage was stopped by the simple application of cold water. December I'Jth : the colonel is ■Fig. 5-2. Portion of excised r(|jig (-^ ov two at a time, has a good appetite, sleeps well, omeutum. Spec. 5534, Sect. I, , , mi i 2 ^ -1 i ana may be considered out ot all danger. There has not been a bad symptom in the case since the first shock was recovered from, except the irritability of the stomach while on the way in. [The specimen was contributed to the Army Medical