125 SIMPLE AND COMPOUND FEACTUEES. COCCIL—Bemarlcs on a Case of Fracture of the Skull. U. S. A. By Elliott CoueS; Assistant Surgeon, Private Emil Sliiilder fell from tlie gallery of the clmrcli where the troops are quartered, a distance of about eighteen feet, striking his head on the edge of a stair. Profuse htemorrhage of chiefly venous blood from the left ear, and some from the nose, with instantaneous and complete insensibility. Was conveyed to the hospital, where I saw him fifteen minutes afterward, in con- dition as follows: Entire insensibility; temperature of blood normal; complete muscular relaxation. Pupils of normal size, insensible to light. No pulse perceptible at wrist or arm, though a feeble, fluttering, irregular, and interrupted motion of the heart could be felt. Respirations about five per minute, labored (but not stertorous), and amounting to little more than gasping. Utemorrhage of both venous and arterial blood still continued from the ear; a well-marked depression of con- siderable depth and extent just over the left ear; none others perceptible. A trivial cut over the left eye. Much ecchymosis about the right eye. The patient was in articulo mortis^ and died in about ten minutes. The pupils, which had been before fixed, dilated to a remarkable degree just before death. Autopsy, twelve hours after death. Skull: On removing the pericranium and left temporal muscle, the squamous portion of the temporal bone was found fractured and depressed for one-third of an inch or more, the posterior edge of the fracture comminuted, and the fragments driven in upon and lacerating the brain. A compound comminuted fracture of the petrous portion of the OS temporis, leading into the meatus auditorius externus, through which a probe readily passed, and through which the haemorrhage had occurred (for the tympanum was intact). A very extensive fracture began at the mastoid portion of the os temporis, and arched over the side of the skull (above, and distinct from the depression of the squamous iiortion of the os temiwris above mentioned), involving parietal and frontal bones to the left orbit, at about its middle, and thence extended into the lelt orbital plate of the frontal. This was a clean, smooth, fracture, gaping one- twelfth of an inch. The right orbital j)late of frontal was also fractured. The cribriform lamella of ethmoid fractured and comminuted. Fracture of left sphenoidal ala. Brain: Anterior lobe of left hemisphere lacerated, from impact of fragments of temporal bone, the dura mater being there ruptured. Several large, firm, black clots about the optic commissure and crura cerebri. The ves- sels of the pia mater all congested, and numerous minute clots from their rupture among the cere- bral and cerebellar convolutions. A little blood in the ventricles, and some clots in the meshes of the choroid plexus, but no great amount of serous effusion. The brain substance was studded more thicklj' than usual with red points. It was impossible to ascertain the exact amount or origin of the ha;morrhage. It was profuse at first, and continued in a degree until death, and during the autopsy it flowed freelj*, as soon as the temporal depression was exposed. I believe it originated from either the lateral or superior petrosal sinus, and from one of the meningeal arteries. The internal carotids were intact, as wei'e the superior and inferior longitudinal sinuses, as well as those about the cerebellum. From the indications afforded by the pupils, I presume the i^atient first suffered chiefly from the concussion, and afterward experienced the full effect of the compression of the brain. CCCCIII.—Remarks on a Case of Fracture of the Frontal Bone.—By George M. Sternberg Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Corporal William S- -, Co. F, 37th Infantry, was, on March 2, 1807, at work at a pontoon bridge across the Eepublican Eiver, drawing up a boat with three men with a windlass. The windlass, in some way, escaped from their control, and while revolving rapidly the end of the crank struck him in the forehead. He re- mained about two hours at the bridge, and then walked to the post hospital at Fort Riley, Kansas. About ten minutes after he came to the hospital, he had a convulsion, and was unconscious from that time until he died, JMarch 7,18G7. Several fragments of bone were removed by Assistant Surgeon W. H. Forwood, U. S. A., soon after the man arrived at the hospital. The specimen is figured in the accompanying wood-cut, (FiG. 17.) Fig.17. Segment of frontal l)one, giving an interior view of ,a fracture by a blow from a wiuillass. Spec. 4861, Sect. I, A.M.M.