EEPOET OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 242 and it was then deemed best not to open the yvonnd and attempt to ligate. On the fourth day, some arterial hremorrhage occurring, it was thought unsafe to delay, and I ligated the femoral at the middle third. There had been no warmth or circuhition below the wound since the injury, and, at the time of operation, there were strong indications of gangrene. The patient died on March IG, 1866. BCLXlll.—Account of a Lif/afion of the Femoral Artery. By E. McClellan, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Geoi-ge Hastings, Co. K, 37th Infantry, was admitted to the hospital at Fort Garland, Colorado Territory, July 30, 1868, having been accidentally stabbed the same daj-, in the upper portion of the thigh, with a long, narrow hunting-knife, which had been made exceedingly sharp, and which, passing the femoral artery, partially divided the profunda femoris below the origin of the external circumflex. The haemorrhage was excessive. Some few moments only elapsed after the accident, before complete syncope ensued with all the characteristic symptoms. Pressure on the femoral arrested the haemorrhage, but the extreme prostration prohibited surgical inter- ference at the time, and stimulants and nourishments were administered. At 10 o'clock P. M. hfemorrhage again occurring, now from the lower extremity of the artery, the wound was enlarged and the artery secured. The patient was kept for several days under the influence of morphine. Slight pressure continued on the femoral, although not sufficient at any time greatly to impede the circulation in the limb. At no time after the operation was the circulation arrested. On the nineteenth day the upper ligature was removed, but the lower one did not come away until the thirty- fourth, although steady and continual traction upon it was made. The patient was returned to duty in October, 18GS. DCLXIV.—Memorandum relatite to a Ligation of the Femoral Artery. By A. Judson Gkat, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private John Neun, Troop B, 3d Cavalry, aged 26 years, was wounded in a drunken alterca- tion at Fort Bayard, New Mexico, November 12, 1869, by a pistol ball, which entered the outer aspect of right leg, three inches below the knee, passed obliquely downward and inward, between tibia and fibula, and emerged from inner aspect of leg, six inches above the ankle-joint. He was adnaitted to the post hospital on November 13, 1867. The leg became inflamed, and the foot and ankle oedeniatous. The discharge was thin and bloody, Hfemorrhage occurred on December ber oth, and again on December 8th, but was easily controlled by iiressure. The patient became anaemic from loss of blood, and was anxious and desponding. On December 10th, ether was administered, and an incision four inches long was made, commencing five inches below Poupart's ligament, and extendingparallel to,audalittle to the outside of, theiunerborderof the sartorius muscle. The femoral artery was then ligated. The patient reacted promptly. Three days after the opera- tion a slough three by five inches, formed under the leg just above the ankle, but suppurated healthily. The inflammation in the leg subsided, the ligature came away on the 27th, and on December 30th the upper wound had entirely healed, while the others were closing satisfactorily. He was returned ^ to duty on February 24, 1870. DCLXV.—Minute of a Case in which the External Circumflex Artery was ligated. By Donald Jackson, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private John Davis, Co. C, 41st Infantry, aged 22 years, received on March 13, 1869, at Fort Clark, Texas, a punctured wound of thigh. He was admitted to the post hospital, Avhere the wound was enlarged and the internal circumflex artery ligated, while the patient was under the influence of ether. Five days later the ligature was removed, and the wound was filling with healthy granulations. He was returned to duty May 12, 1869,