66 EEPOET OF SUEGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. from small vessels, and the wonud of exit vras considerably lacerated. He was, on September 16th, admitted to post hospital. Several fragments of bone were removed, and cooling lotions applied. October 1st: The hand and fore-arm were much swollen, and almost in a si)hacelated condition. The patient was greatly depressed, and suffered from hectic fever and diarrhoea. Liberal diet was given, and a gradual improvement took place. During the first quarter of 1809, the wound remained open, there being necrosis of carpal and metacarpal bones. Sequestra were removed, and on March 31, 1869, the patient was doing well. He was returned to duty in July, 1869. COXXYIII.—Account of a Gunshot Wound of the Sand. By W. Porter, M. D., Acting Assist- ant Surgeon. Sergeant Thomas Downey, Co. 0, 7th Infantry, aged 37 years, received a gunshot wound of the left hand, on February 3,1808, at Gainesville, Florida, while quieting a riot among civilians. The ball passed into the palm of the hand, and fractured the metacarpal bone of middle finger. The ball was taken out from under the skin at the back of the hand. He Avas admitted to the post hospital, where chloroform and ether were administered, and several pieces of fractured bone were removed. He was returned to duty February 23, 1808. CCXXIX.—Mention of a Gunshot Wound of the Hand. By C. E. Goddard, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Martia Flannery, Co. E, 2d Battalion, IGth Infantry, aged 28 years, was wounded (by himself) on December 20, 1860, by a couoidal bullet, which passed between the index and second fingers of the right hand, near their phalangeo-metacarpal articulation, injuring both joints, and the periosteum of the phalangeal bones. He was admitted into post hospital at Chattanooga, Tennessee, on the same day. Simple dressings were applied. He was returned to duty in February, 1807. CCXXX.—Eejyort of a Case of Gunshot Fracture of the Metacarpal Bone. By H. S. Schell, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Andrew Likarte, Co. A, 2d Cavalry, aged 20 years, received a perforating gunshot wound of the hand, at Fort Laramie, Dakota Territory, March 1, 1807, by a conoidaL ball, which fractured the fourth metacarpal bone. He was admitted to the post hospital March 3d. Lead-water and laudanum dressings were applied. He was returned to duty March 29, 1807. CCXXXI.—Note of a Gunshot Woiind of the Carpus. By James P. Kiiviball, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private William Lavelle, Co. F, 7th Infantry, aged 21 years, accidentally received on June 7, 1870, a gunshot-wound of the left wrist, the ball passing through the center of the carpus. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Buford, Dakota Territory, where fragments of bone were removed from the wound, and the injury was dressed with carbolic acid. He was discharged November 30,1870. CCXXXII.—Account of a Gunshot Wound of the Hand. By H. McEldery, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private William F. Lcete, Co. K, 0th Cavalry, aged 24 years, was accidentally wounded on December 20, 1807, by a conoidal ball, which entered one half inch above the second phalango- metacarpal articulation of the left hand, and emerged on the dorsal surface, comminuting the metacarpal and first phalangeal bone of that finger. He was admitted into the post hospital at Camp Wilson, Texas, on October 27, 1S()7. Tlie treatment consisted of cold-water dressings, isinglass plaster, solution of muriatic acid, and ointment of subnitrate of bismuth ; anodynes and tonics were administered internally. He was discharged March 5, 1808.