SIMPLE AND COMPOUND FEACTURES. 117 tbe body, the integnineut of the face and neck whs of a decidedly bright red color, and a number of cuts and bruises were found on the face and head, evidently produced by falling- on loose stones, and blood issued from the right ear. An extensive clot was found under tlie temporal fascia, and the skull was fractured by a blow on the lower border of the parietal bone, near the posterior inferior angle. The fracture extended posteriorly through the right ])osterior fossa of the occipital bone, severing the lateral sinus, and anteriorly, through the petrous portion of the temporal, great wing of the sphenoid, near the sella Turcica, and through the right orbital plate. An immense blood-clot covered the dura mater on the right side. CCCLXXXI.—Account of a Fracture of the Skidl—By J. V. D. Middleton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Brevet Major James -, 4th Cavalry, had been drinking hard for several weeks, and was threatened with delirium tremens, when on the night of March 19, 1870, about 10 o'clock, he went to the store of the post trader, at Austin, Texas, and linding' three recruits there in a state of noisy intoxication, ordered them to their quarters. They refused to go, when a scuffle ensued, and Lieutenant was knocked down. While down one of the men struck him with a cane, the handle probably coming in contact with his head. He was stunned for a few moments, after which he got up and walked to his cpiarters, [ two hundred yards distant, and in the absence of the doctor sent for / the hospital steward, who examined the injui'y, and found a wound about an inch long. There was considerable haemorrhage, which was readily controlled by means of a compress. The wound was brought together by adhesive straps, and cold water api)lied. He vomited freely immediately after getting back to his quarters. The next,raorning the doctor saw him, but as there were no s.ymptoms directing his attention to the wound, made no examination of it. His right hand was much i swollen from a sprain he received in striking one of the men, and this | was all he complained of. The symptoms were those of delirium im. ii. segment of ricrhtparieta tremens, and he was treated accordingly. On Sunday, March 20th, he "'"^ ""f, p"'*'""! ^ " ' " occipital bones, with punctured frac- was visited by Assistant Surgeon J. Y. D. Middleton, U. S. A., about t.ire at point of parietal eminence, twenty hours after the reception of the injury. He was extremely s™.i. a. m. m. restless, and looked upon every one who came near hiin with suspicion, imagining many absurd things, and wanting to get up and go out. Pulse 130, and full; breathing natural; skin bathed in perspiration; tongue moist and tremulous; eyes injected; pupils dilated, but responding to light; hands tremulous, and constantly picking at imaginary objects. He w^as ordered a drachm of bromide of potassium and ten grains of capsicum, with a teacupful of beef essence every four hours, alternating so that he took a dose every two hours. His condition remained about the same except that there was a disposition to sleep for a few moments at a time, and the treatment was continued until the morning of March 24th, when he had a chill, followed by fever and profuse sweating, the paroxysm lasting two hours. Two doses of chloroform, one drachm each, were administered in mucilage, one during the day, the other at bed-time, with but little effect. The beef essence was kept up, also cold applications to head. On March 25th, having passed a sleepless night, he was ordered one-half grain of morphia, to be repeated in an hour if sleep was not induced. Before the expiration of the hour he fell into a quiet sleep, which continued until about 3 o'clock, when it assumed a comatose character, which increased until 6.15 P. M,, when he expired. Autopsv, eighteen hours after death, revealed a wound over the right parietal eminence; ecchymosis through the temporal muscle; the parietal bone was found fractured and comminuted; an oval piece of the outer table was driven in. On removing the calvaria the inner table was found to be depressed; clots were found in brain under wound, and a large amount of bloody serum beneath the whole of the dura mater and in cavities of brain. The vessels of the brain were enlarged under the wound. The specimen was forwarded to the Army Medical Museum. [It is illustrated by the wood-cut, (Fig. 14). The interior view is still more interesting.—Ed.]