239 LIGATIONS OP VESSELS OF THE TRUNK. Ligations of the Great Vessels of the Trwri^.—Reports of four cases come under this bead : DQlNll.—Ligation of the Ahdominal Aorta for Aneurism. Compiled from reports by D. E. Brown, M. D., Actiug Assistant Surgeon, J. H. Janeway, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A., and Profes- sor H. McGuiRE, M. D. Wilson F , a negro of thirty years, a wood-chopper, was admitted to the Howard Grove Hospital, at Eichmond, Virginia, March 20, 18G8. He stated that a week before, while pursuing his ordinary avocation, he felt something give way in the lower part of his abdomen, a sensation followed by nausea and great pain. On admission the tumor was small, but it rapidly increased and soon its aneurismal nature became unmistakable. Drs. Janeway and McGuire were invited to examine the case. No pulsation could be discovered in the left femoral; but no change in the temperature or size of the left leg was observed. His general health was good. The patient said that the tumor gradually increased in size and was daily growing worse. Eest in bed, Avith digitalis, iron, acetate of lead, and opiates, seemed to alleviate the pain and to dimin- ish the size of the tumor; but the relief was but temporary. On March 26th, compression of the aorta was resorted to, but had to be discontinued because of the tenderness of the tumor. On March 30th, at 1 P. M., Dr. McGuire, after consultation with Drs. Brown and Janeway, Professors Joynes, Wellford, and others, determined to cut down and to ligate the oommon iliac above the aneurism. When the aneurism was exposed it was found to involve the whole of the common iliac, and the aorta near its bifurcation. The sac was very thin. Dr. McGuire now determined to tie the aorta, when the sac suddenly ruptured, although it had been handled with the utmost delicacy, and a profuse discharge of blood took place. The aorta was instantly compressed by the linger an inch above the tumor, and surrounded by an assistant with a ligature and tied. About a pmt ot blood was removed from the cavity of the abdomen. The lips of the wound were brought together. Sutures and bandages were applied. A stimulating enema Avas given. The patient was put to bed, and the lower extremities were surrounded by warm applications.' In a few moments the effects of chloroform passed off, and slight reaction took place. He complained much of numbness of the lower extremities. The temperature of the axilla never rose above 96. He died half an hour after midnight, eleven and a half hours after the operation. At the autopsy, the ligature was found to embrace the aorta at the origin of the inferior mesentery and included the left ureter. The rent in the sac was just over the bifurcation of the aorta. The specimen, figured by the wood-cut (Fig. 50) was contributed to the Museum at Washington.* It is still better represented by Photograph 222^ of the Surgical Series of Photographs, Vol. V., p. 22.t Rg. 50.—Aorta ligated for iliao aiiem'isra. Spec. 5256, Sect. I., A. M. M. DOLVIII.—Minute of Case of TAgation of the External Iliac. By B. E. Fryer, Assistant Surgeon U. S. A. Sergeant Patrick Fitzpatrick, Co. B, 4th Infantrj^, was admitted to post hospital at Fort Wayne, Michigan, on May 21,1867, with a large aneurism of external iliac and femoral arteries. The tumor extended from about two inches above Poupart's ligament to eight inches below. The thigh was nearly thirty-six inches in circumference. The man had been intemperate, and had been confined to his bed for nearly three months before his admission to hospital. On May 24th, ether having been administered, an incision was made seven inches in length, beginning an inch above the external * A detailed account of this case may I5e found in the American Journal of the Medical Sciences, Vol. LVI, p. 415, Oct., 1868. t Sir Astley Cooijer's famous case of ligation of the aorta is recorded in the Surgical Essays of Cooper and Travers' London, 1818, p. 113.