SIMPLE AND COMPOUND FEACTURES. 115 CCOLXXVir.—A Condensed Account of a Fracture of the Skull, in which Death occurred Three Years subseqiiently. From a report by John Taylor, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. James H. B , a private of Co. G, 20tli Inftintry, a robust man, but a confirmed inebriate, was admitted to hospital at New Orleans, Louisiana, on September 12, 1868, in an epileptic fit, which lasted about twenty minutes, and left him in a state of stupor for hours after. From the patient's history, it was ascertained that he had received a blow qn the head some three years pre- viously, and had been subject to epilepsy- ever since. He was not aware of suffering from other serious disease. Eeference to the hospital register of the post showed that he had, at various times, been under treatment. His sufferings, so far as they came under special notice, seemed invariably to have been excited after the excessive use of alcoholic stimulants. For five days after admission, the patient seemed better. The treatment consisted of bromide of potassium and a nourishing diet. On the 18th and 19th, he became slightly feverish and complained of headache. Castor oil and turpentine were administered with good effect, and ice applied to the head. Although free from fever, headache still continued; he looked sulky and dull, and on the 22d there was another epileptic fit. On the following day head symptoms with fever and obstinate constipation became intense. Mercurial purgatives aiul a terebinthinate enema failing to move the bowels, the negative pole of a battery was applied to the tongue and tlie positive to the anus with the desired result. Forty ounces of blood was drawn from the arm, lowering the pulse from 120 to 75, and ice was applied to the shaved head. The symptoms becoming worse on the 25th, blood was again taken from the arm and the temples; a mercurial was administered; injections and cold applications were continued, and later in the day a sinapism was applied to the nape of the neck. The patient, gradually growing worse, sunk into a profound coma, and died on the after- noon of the 27th. The antiphlogistic regimen was strictly observed from the 18th to the 25th, but on the last two days beef tea was given, both by the mouth and rectum. At the autopsy, fourteen hours afterward, two old cicatrices were found in the scalp; one over the posterior i^art of the parietal suture, about half an inch from its occipital termination, measuring about one and a half inches long; the other was over the left parietal eminence, measuring about one inch long; other- wise the scalp seemed whole and perfect. The brain and its membranes seemed to be in a state of general inflammation; the brain, throughout its substance, showed a large number of bloody l)oiuts; the gray matter was more intensified in its color, and the substance of the brain soft in general. The lateral venticles contained a small quantity of straw-colored fluid, and the vessels in them were in a state of congestion. That portion of the cerebum immedi- ately under the first described cicatrix was found closely adherent to the dura mater, and the dura mater itself, at this point, although loosely connected to the skull, was with difficulty removed; in fact the knife had to be used to detach it for about one square inch from the surface of the hemispheres, indicating ijre- vious inflammation and adhesion; the Pacchionian bodies were more numer- us here, larger, and standing prominently out from the surface; immediately below this point and between the hemispheres, a splinter of bone was found embedded in the falx cerebri; the appi'oxiraate surfaces of the hemispheres at this spot were redder and the minute vessels more injected. The pituitary body was found to be a little larger than usual and darker in color. From the history of the deceased, and the symptoms during his illness, with the appear- fig. i3. osteophyte in ance of the brain in general after death, but one conclusion could be arrived *1 ^^^^ ^^T^"' ^Z'^""' ' 5d17, Sec. I, A. M. M. at: That he died of general cerebritis, brought on from drink, exposure to the sun, and the irritation which appeared to be set up by the splinter of bone discovered in the falx-cerebri. A portion of the falx cerebri, having a splinter of bone embedded, was forwai ded to the Army Medical Museum. It is represented in the wood-cut, (Fig. 13.) CCCLXXVIII.—Wote relative to a Fracture of the SlaiU. By Dallas Bache, Surgeon, U. S. A. At the Post of San Antonio, Texas, March 10, 1868, private John Banan, Co. L, 4th Cavalry, aged 23 years, received a blow from a spade, causing a clean fracture in the left occipital region.