EEPOiiT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 198 furnislied witli artificial limbs by D. W. Kolbe, Pliiladelpliia, at wliich time the stumps were of normal size aud perfectly healed. The uiau is a pensioner at $20 per month. DLXIII.—Aecotmt of a Double Amputation of the Legs. By B. E. Fryer, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private George Foster, Troop C, lOtli Cavalry, having lost his way after a debauch, was exposed to a severe snow-storm on the open prairie, and had both his feet badly frost-bitten. He was admitted to hospital at Fort Zara, Kansas, on December 9, 18G8. Before admission, and immediately after discovery, he had been injudiciously taken to a fire. W. H. King, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A., attempted gradual reduction of temperature, but, mortification ensuing, he administered chloroform, and amputated the right foot just above the ankle, by circular operation, on December 31, 1868. At that time the left foot began to mortify, and was ami)utated on January 19,1SG9, in the same manner as the first. The patient, who had been weak and emaciated, rapidly imin'oved. Carbolic acid, variously diluted, formed almost the only application to the stumps. To reduce the chance of secondary haemorrhage, as well as to overcome the stretching of the muscles, extension by means of adhesive strips and weight, as in fracture, Avas employed. On January 31, 18C9, the stumps looked well. lie was transferred to the hospital at Fort Barker, Kansas, in the latter part of the year, where he stated that be made a good recovery. By December 31, 1809, the stumps had healed, and the patient's health was excellent. [Not on pension rolls.] DLXIV.—Report of an Amputation of the Leg. By J. C. Field, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Samuel Gilbert, Troop A, 3d Cavalry, aged 20 years, was accidentally wounded while on iiost at Fort Smith, Arkansas, on February 19, 1800. The ball entered the leg at the internal border of the gastrocnemius muscle, severed the posterior tibial artery, fractured the fibula at the middle third, and emerged on the external aspect lower down. On the 22d he was admitted to the hospital of the post. On February 2Gth, the wound being in a gangrenous state throughout its extent, and the patient in a very low, anremic condition, I administered ether, and amputated the leg at the npper third, by circular operation. Egg-nog, quinine, iron, and morphine were prescribed, and the best nourishment the hospital afforded w^as ordered; but death, from exhaustion, occurred the following day. A post-mortem examination disclosed extensive sloughing of structure along the entire course of the ball. DLXV.—Bemarlcs on an Amputation of the Leg. By B. J. D. Irwin, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Frederick Hilbrecht, Co. C, 4:3d Infantry, aged 51 years, was run over December 30, 1807, by a loaded cart, which produced a compound comminuted fracture of the right tibia and fibula in the lower thirds. On the next day he was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Wayne, Michigan. By January 9, 1808, the limb was much swollen to within three inches of the knee, and was gangrenons, with large phlycttense. A fragment of bone, denuded of periosteum, protruded through the slough. His health was good, with the exception of a slight cold, which had troubled him some three weeks previously, and which was attended Avith profuse muco- Ijurulent exijectoration, but without evidence of acute inflammatory action. On the latter date I administered chloroform, and amputated the leg at the uj^per third, by the antero-i)osterior flap method. On the fourth day after the operation a ligature came away, and another on the fifth. On the ninth day he had a severe attack of intermittent fever. On the eleventh day his bowels were loose, and he had another attack of intermittent fever. On the twelfth day he had involun- tary evacuations of urine and fseces, with a slight attack of intermittent fever, and on the thirteenth a severe attack of rhenmatism, affecting the whole left side of his body. On the fourteenth day he was very feeble and greatly prostrated. There was profuse expectoration of muco purulent matter, and evidence of softening of the lungs. The wound was healthy and almost healed, with the exception of slight oedema about the knee-joint. He died of inflammation of the lungs, January 20,1808.