AMPUTATIONS OF THE FORE-AEM. 179 DXV.—Report of an Amputation of the Fore-Arm for Gunshot Injury. By C. E. Goddaud, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Charles Ehey, Co. H, 31st Infantry, aged 25 years, while firing a salute July 4, 1868, at Fort Stevenson, Dakota Territory, was wounded in the right fore-arm by the premature discharge of a cannon. The skin was burned by powder, and there was more or less contusion. He was at at once admitted to the hospital, and on the same day chloroform Avas administered, and Surgeon 0. O. Gray, U. S. A., amputated about the middle of the fore-arm, by the circular method. Simple dressings were applied. The patient recovered slowly but well, and was discharged September 29, 1868, with a pension of $15 per month. DXVI.—Remarlcs on an Amputation of the Fore-Arm for Gunshot Injury. By H. A. Du BoiS, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Juan Seis, Co. D, 1st New Mexico Infantry, was wounded while herding, by the discharge of a lyusket, which took effect in the fore-arm. Forty-eight hours after the reception of the injury, he was admitted to the post hospital, Fort Union, New Mexico. The fore-arm was hanging by tendons. On October 28, 1866, about sixty hours after the receipt of the injury, chloroform was administered,'and the fore arm amputated by the skin-flap method. The patient rallied well; the wound healed, and he was discharged with a good stump November 9, 1866. DXVII.—Account of a Primary Amputation of the Fore-Arm for Gunshot Injury. By J. J. Mars- ton, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Patrick Whalen, Co. D, 3d Infantry, was wounded at Fort Larned, Kansas, April 10, 1867, by the accidental discharge of a Spencer rifle, while in the act of loading the piece. The left 'hand was badly shattered, the bones being fractured, the arteries, muscles, and tissues lacerated, and the thumb entirely carried away. Three hours after the accident the left fore-arm was amputated at the lower third by the circular method. The tissues of the right hand, between the metacarpal bones of the thumb and fore-finger, were also lacerated, but the bones were uninjured. April 30, 1807: The stump and the wound of the right hand had nearly healed. The patient's condition was good. Discharged May 21, 1867, with a pension of $15 per mouth. DXYIII.—Account of an Intermediate Amputation of the Fore-Arm for Gunshot Injury. By H. R. TiLTON, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Abraham Wilks, Troop B, 10th Cavalry, aged 23 years, was accidentally wounded November 3, 1808, by a carbine ball, which passed through the left hand, from the j)almar to the dorsal aspect, fracturing the second and third metacarpal bones. The third finger was removed on the same day. On November 10, 1868, he was admitted to the post hospital. Fort Lyon, Colorado Territory. There was diffuse sup])uration extending above the wrist, and secondary hfemorrhage fi'om the deep palmar arch. The patient was in great alarm, complaining bitterly of his wound, and desiring amputation. On the 11th, chloroform was administered, and the fore-arm amputated through the middle by the circular method. Five ligatures were applied, and simple dressings were used. On November 17th, the first ligature was removed, and on November 29th, the last one came away. The posterior flap sloughed to the extent of half an inch, but by using adhesive straps and weights, the flaps were ample. On December 27th, the stump reopened and discharged freely, but by the 5th of February, 1869, it had entirely healed. He was discharged the service June 18,1869. DXIX.—Account of a Primary Amputation of the Fore-Arm for Gunshot Injury. By J. C. Lamont, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Horace Williams, Troop L, 9th Cavalry, aged 20 years, was wounded December 20, 1869, while firing a salute. In the act of ramming a blank cartridge into a piece of artillery, it accidentally ignited and exploded. The soft tissues of the right hand, wrist, and lower third oif