257 LITHOTOMY. cut, (Fig. 53,) and the ai)pearauce of tbe section tlirongli the short axis is shown in the opi)Osite wood-cut, (Fig. 54). [It is of a yellowish white color, and measures oue inch and a half in length, one in breadth, and five eighths in depth. It is compressed laterally ; is irregularly ovoid in shape, and is soft and friable. Its structure, as seen by the microscope, is amorphous. After exposure to heat it emitted the smell of burnt feathers. The nucleus, of a brownish-red color, consists of urate of lime, and is of iirmer consistence than the body or crust, both of which are made up of ammonio-magnesian phosphate and organic matter.—Ed.] DOXCIX.— Memorandum relative to a Vesical Calculus successfully removed hy Lithotomy. Joseph E. Smith, Surgeon, U. S. A. By The specimen numbered 5575 of the Surgical Section was presented to the Army Medical Museum, by Surgeon Joseph li. Smith, U. S. A., who removed it, by the lateral operation, from a boy of seven years, at Little Eock, Arkansas. On March 20, 1871, Surgeon Smith writes : " There was no haemorrhage; the incision in the prostate was enlarged by the finger, and the stone extracted only with considerable traction. No catheter was used after the operation, and in a short time the urine passed by the natural channel. The patient passed from under my observation in a few mouths, cured. [This stone, weighing five hundred and sixty-one grains, and of a dull white color, is generally ovoid in shape, being compressed laterally, and is smooth. It is one inch aud three-quarters in length, one and three-eighths in breadth, and one in depth. A section shows a number of concentric layers around a nucleus. It is compact, firm, aud brittle. The microscope shows its minute structure to be amorphous, and it emitted the smell of burnt feathers when subjected to heat. It consists probably of am- monio-magnesian phosphates, with large quantity of organic matter. The dimensions of the concretion aiul its general appearance externally and in section are shown in the wood-cuts. Figs .55,5G.—Ed.] Fir,. 55.—Section of a urinary calculus. Spec. 5575, Sect. I, A. M. M. [Nat. size.] Fig. 5fi.—Exterior ^ i:-w of the calculus. DOC.—Report of a Successful Case of Lithotomy. ant Surgeon. By E. J. Jennings, M. D., Acting- Assist- Leroy Johnson, a mulatto boy, aged about 19 years, and weighing only eighty pounds, was admitted to the Freedmen's Hospital at Little Eock, on August 20, 1867, with vesical calculus, having been previously treated for the ordinary remittent fever of the country by Dr. E. V. Denell, who discovered a concretion in the bladder, and sent him to the hospital. Upon admission, he stated that he had of late suffered extreme pain in passing his urine, aud that fits freqnently occurred during the effort. A day or so subsequently an opportunity offered for the post surgeon to observe one of these paroxysms, which was intensely severe, and when it subsided left the patient much prostrated, and bathed in a profuse perspiration like that of the sweating stage of intermittent fever. An examination with a sound was made in the presence of several medical men, which established, beyond a doubt, the existence of calculus. One of the physicians present remembered having prescribed for this patient, ten years previously, for incontinence of urine. On September 3d, eight days after admission, the patient was chloroformed, and the bi-lateral operation of lithotomy was performed, removing a stone weighing three and one-eighth ounces. Some difficulty was experienced in the extraction, which was overcome by enlarging the primary incision. The after-treatment in this case cousisted-of rest—the patient lying supine, with a fold of blanket drawu under his hips—and cold-water dressings to the wound. On the ninth day after the oper- 33