REPORT OF SURGICAL OASES IN THE ARMY. 1]6 about one inch and a half iu leugth, with no depression of the outer table. He was admitted to the post luispital March 17, 1868. Simi^le dressings were applied. Discharged September 13, 1868. Compound fracture of the skull. CCCLXXIX.—Report of a Fracture of the Shull By Francis Barnes, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Prosper Behan, colored, aged 32 years, was admitted to the Freedraeu's hospital, New Orleans, Louisiana, having been beaten into a state of insensibility the night previously, for the purpose of robbing him. There were two wounds of the head, one on the right of the median line, a little over one-half inch, and one over the parietal bone, one inch from its frontal junction. This wound was circular and ragged, and sufficiently open to detect easily that the outer table was depressed, and to allow^ the passage of a probe to feel the fissure which surrounded it. The next day after admission, the patient had a slight epileptic convulsion, and it was suggested that the trephine should be applied to his head. On the night of May 3d, the patient had a chill, followed hy a fever, and the next day the plump appearance of his face was gone, the skin shiruuken, and the eyes sunken. The pulse became feeble, and over 100. In the wound a tliin sero-pus could be seen, welling through the fissure of the fracture every time he breathed. On May 5th, the patient could not lie down, and he had difficulty in swallowing. There was rigidity of the muscles of the neck and abdomen, as well as the chest; the body was thrown slightly backward; pain in right side under point of ribs. Auscultation detected nothing abuornuil save the short and hurried movements of the walls of the chest, causing corresponding vermicular murmurs of equal duration with them. There was liernia of the right side, which was reduced and a truss applied, but he tore it off as often as adjusted, saying he wanted room to breathe. Moderate doses of opium were given, whicli had such prompt effect in relieving the muscular rigidity, that on May 6th, doubt was thrown on the theory that it was due to tetanus. Death resulted May 9, 1868. At the post-mortem examina- tion, u])on removing the calvarium the outer table was found depressed but not detached, the Assure having an oval form about six-eighths of an inch in the short diameter, and seven-eighths of an inch in the long. The inner table, at a point corresponding, was separated a quarter of an inch greater, and divided into four equal fragments, one of which was completely detached. The opposite parietal bone had a fissured fracture running through the temporal bone, down to the floor of the temx»oral fossa. This fissure was nearly seven inches long, and extended to and com- municated with the first described fracture. The dura mater beneath the depressed fracture had a circle of altered structure, one-fourth of an inch greater than the bony lesion, being thickened to this extent with false membrane, which next the bone was covered with a thin secretion of serous pus. The sinuses were very full of blood, but the other bloodvessels of the dura, mater were not unusually congested. Upon removing the dura mater, the pia mater presented three spots of inflammation, manifested by effusion of bloody lymijh: one under the depressed fracture, the second corresponding to the fissured fracture, and the third in the posterior part of the two hemispheres of the cerebrum, extending into the fissure between them. The brain itself aj)- peared very firm and healthy. The choroid vessels were pale, and the ventricles had no finid in them. The heart was healthy, and there was no lesion of the substance of the lungs. The pleura^, however, had thin false membranes over their whole extent, and there was about a pint of thin sero-pus in both cavities. The patient had a reducible inguinal hernia. The organs and peritonaeum of the abdominal cavity were healthy. The pathological specimen, consisting of the fissured calvarium, was forwarded to the Army Medical Museum, and numbered 5461, of the Surgical Section. CCCIiXXX.—RemarliS on a Case of Fracture of the Skull. By E. P. Vollum, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private James Buchanan, Co. I, 42d Infantry, fell over the cliff in front of Madison Barracks, New York, on the night of Novemlier 6, 1868, while iu a state of intoxication, and struck upon his head. When found the next morning, he was lying near the w^ater's edge—dead. After washing