AMPUTATIONS OF THE FOOT. 191 Name. Jackson, Nicliolaa B. Keegan, Jolin McDonald, John McKee, Alexander.. Murphy, Michael Nohrton, J olm O'Connor, John Phenix, James Shanley, Barney "Washington, George Kank. Discharg'd soldier. Private. Private. Private. Private. Scout Corporal . Private... Sergeant , Private... No. Eegiment. Nature of injury. 1st Cavalry ... 23d Infantry.. 33d Infantry.. 14th Infantry. 22d Infantry 2d Cavalry... 1st Artillery. Frost-bite. Frost-bite Frost-bite Incised wound . Frost-bite Frost-bite Frost-bite Frost-bite Lacerated wound 10th Cavalry Frost-bite Parts removed. All the toes of right foot and three toes of left foot through metatarso-phalangeal articu- tion. Second and third phalanges of little toe of left foot. Last phalanx of great toe Little toe All the toes of both feet and the ends of the metatarsal bones of the right foot. Little toe of the right foot Eight great toe and first joint... All toes of both feet First ijhalanx of right great toe. Terminal phalanx of left great toe. Eemarks. Discharged from hospital March 6, 1871. Keturned to duty in May, 1868. Eeturned to duty in April, 1868. Keturned to duty March 24,1868. Eeturned to duty June 12,1871. Keturned to duty April 30,1870r Keturned to duty in April, 1868. • Discharged from service August 11,1868. Keturned to duty in Au- gust, 1866. Eeturned to duty March 28,18G8. Amputations of the Foot.—Six special cases were reported, bites, two to gunshot injuries, and one to dislocation. Three were due to frost- iDXLIX.—Account of a Case in tvhich a Double Operation was Performed on the Feet. ScHELL, Assistant Surgeon, IJ, S. A. By H. S. Private William Finn, Troop D, 2d Cavalry, aged 29 years, while on the march from Fort Laramie to Bridger's Ferry, North Platte Eiver, March 26, 1867, was frost-bitten in both feet. He was admitted into the ijost hospital at Fort Laramie, Dakota Territory, on the same day, the whole of the right foot in front of the ankle-joint and all of the toes of the left foot except the last being gangrenous. On April 12th the patient was slightly feverish, the pulse was 90, and the lower part of right leg and foot had become swollen and congested; there was a distinct line of demarca- tion extending vertically around the foot, from a \)omi about one-half inch in front of tibio-tarsal articulation, and the cuticle was detached from the plantar region. The left foot was puffy, and there was a line of demarcation a little posterior to commissures of toes. Chloroform was admin- istered, and the right foot amputated by Pirogoff's operation in the manner described by Mr. Spencer Wells, and all the toes of the left foot just behind the heads of the metatarsal bones, dorsal and palmar flaps being made from without inwards. Three ligatures were applied to right foot and two to left. Haemorrhage three or four ounces. The induction of the anajsthesia was difflcult, requiring three-quarters of an hour, but was well borne when induced. Owing to the restlessness of the patient for the first twelve hours after the operation, there was considerable oozing of blood from the right foot, followed by inflammation. The stump and half the leg were wrapped in lint and kept constantly wet with lead-water and laudanum. By April 15th hsemorrhage had ceased. May 13th, both stumps had entirely healed ; June 30, 1807, riglit leg had shortened about three-fourths of an inch. The patient was discharged September 1, 1867. His application for a pension was rejected. DL.—Note relative to a Partial Amputation of the Foot. By P. Middleton, Assistant Surgeon, TJ. S. A. Private George M. Lockwood, Troop C, 3d Cavalry, aged 21 years, was wounded at Fort Whipple, Arizona Territory, May 5, 1870, by the accidental discharge of a Spencer carbine. The