r 256 KEPOIiT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. care and gentleness to introduce the instrument, I i)laced the patient in a hot bath, afterward iriakiug another ineffectual attempt with the catheter. Hot baths, with enemata of hot water, were continued during the forenoon, with occasional attempts on the part of Surgeon T. A. McParlin, U. S. A., and nijself to introduce catheters of different sizes and curves, both metallic and flexible, but without success. At 3 P. M., the pain and anxiety of the patient had become extreme ; pulse 120, iiTegidar and intermittent. He had passed no water for twenty-four hours, a condition of great extremity for hiin. In view of these facts, and the additional circumstance of the chronic diseased condition at the neck of the bladder and consequent danger of rupture, it was decided that the only recourse was to puncture. The only oi)eration practicable was the snpra-pnbic, which was performed by Surgeon IMcParlin, the puncture being made in the median line about an inch above the os pubis. Twenty-six ounces of urine was withdrawn, and a canula left in the wound, retained in situ hy a T bandage and tapes. Morphine Avas freely given to allay jiain and insure perfect quietude. On the next day the canula had partially- slipped out, and could not be restored to its original position. The urine was oozing ; the patient was feeble ; i)ulse frequent, irregular, and intermittent. At five A. M. of the 7th, I found the canula entirely out of the wound, an accident doubtless attributable to the patient himself. There was some evidence of absorption of urea; pulse quick, feeble, and irregular; respiration frequent; iiartial coma. The bladder was nearly as full as before, and no urine escaping by the puncture. Another iiuncture was made by Surgeon McParlin as near the same spot as possible, the canula being retained by adhesive plaster and tape. Anodynes and nourishing diet were adininistered. On August 8th, the urine escaped freely by the canula. There was no sign of extravasation, and the symptoms of urremia had passed away ; jiulse 130, feeble and ii'regular. Warm soap suds and sweet oil were injected into the urethra,'which discharged pus slightly. The patient slowly imjiroved in appetite and general health, the scrotuui became slightly excoriated, but this gave way under the application of a carbolic lotion. - The same general treatment was pursued until August 13th, when a gum-elastic catheter was introduced for the first time since the operation. This was withdrawn on the next day, as was also the canula, and a No. 7 silver catheter inserted and fastened in the urethra by a metallic ring around the penis with tapes attached. This was found to be unendurable, and uidess pushed so t;ir into the bladder as to defeat its object, the point was liable to slip out of the bladder into the urethra, particulai'ly during a fit of coughing. The urine continued to flow through the wound without extravasation, a perfect fistula having become established by adhesion of the Avails of the bladder to the abdominal parietes. From August 17th to 23d, no attempt was made to retain a catheter in the urethra, the urine being withdrawn by the frequent introduction of a gum-elastic catheter, while the passage of the urine by the fistula was not restricted. In a few days the i)atient acquired the habit of passing his urine naturally; the fistula gradually closed, and on August 24:th the wound had nearly healed, the urine only passing through it in small quantities at the commencement of an efibrt to lu'iuate. He continued to improve, and, on September 25th, Avas walking about apparently as well as before the oxieration. DCXCVIII.—Account of a Successful Lithotomy Operation hy the Lateral Method^ with a Description of the Specimen. By H. A. DuBois, Assistant Surgeon, TJ. S. A. * * On August 3, 1800, I remoA'ed from the person of Henry McJ., a citizen of Mora, New Mexico, by the ordinary lateral operation, a large vesical calculus. The wound healed in a short time, and the patient recovered without any incident of interest during the after-treatment. I met him a year subsequently and obtained from him the concretion. Its weight, after removal and drying, had been three hundred gi^aius, ^"%v^ but after being carried about in the patieufs l)Ocket for a year it weighed only one hundred I and seventy grains. I made no complete analj-- / sis of the specimen owing to want of time, but found the external lamina soluble in hydro- fio. 54.—section of the cai- FiG. 53.-fct. i nai \ i. w ui a vesical chlorlc acid, and effervescing in the cold and calculus. Spec. 4803, Sect I, A. M. M. precipitated with carbonate of soda. The specimen will be forwarded to the Army Medical Museum. [Its size and exterior surface is represented in the adjoining wood-