110 EEPOET OF SUEGIOAL CASES IN THE ARMY. Concussion and Compression of the Brain.—Examples of slight stunning from falls or blows are of course very common in military practice, and the graver cases of concussion, contusion, laceration, and compression of the brain are not infrequent. The Cases of fracture of the skull will be reported in the next section. Some of the instances of concussion and compression may be here recorded: CCOLXVI.—Report of a Case of Concussion of the Brain. By A. G. Bates, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private W. E. Burrouglis, Co. I, 40tli Infantry, at Fort Macon, July 2, 1867, received two blows from a hammer, in the hands of an escaping prisoner, upon the front and right side of the head, above the temporal ridge, producing severe concussion of the brain. He remained in a comatose state for several hours. After reaction took place he was put upon proper treatment. There being no perceptible fracture of the bones, the flesh-wound was allowed to heal, which it did readily. He suffered from headache, giddiness, loss of memory, impaired vision, confusion of thought, and was very dull of comprehension. To a casual observer his recovery would appear complete, but the injury received had left the brain in such an unstable state that it would be disturbed by the least excitement, and the man was therefore discharged on August 21, 1807. CCCLXVII.—Bemarlcs on a Case of Concussion of the Brain. By H. M. Cronkhite, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Sergeant Daniel Isaacs, Co. I, 10th Infantry, while attending a fandango at Eio Grande City, Texas, on the night of December 21, 1869, received a severe blow upon the head with an unknown weapon, supposed to have been a brick, in the hands of a Mexican, from the effect of which he lay insensible until 5 o'clock P. M., December 25,1869, at which time he died. Upon post-mortem examination the following pathological conditions were exhibited: In the cellular tissue of the scalj), over the superior curved line of the occipital bone, on the left side of the occipital i^rotuber- ance, there was extensive ecchymosis; on remo\ing the skull-cap several ounces of effused, coagu- lated blood were found between the dura mater, covering all the posterior half of the loft hemisphere of the cerebrum. On close examination no fracture of the cranium could be found in either table. CCCLXVIII.—Memorandum of a Fatal Case of Compression of the Brain. By Elliott Coues, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. At Columbia, January 11, 1868, John Kelly, hospital steward, aged 24 years, received, by a fall, a wound of the head, causing compression of the brain. He was admitted to post hospital on the same day. Simple dressings were applied. He died January 16, 1868. CCCLXIX.—Remarlcs on a Case of Severe Concussion of the Brain. By J. P. Foot, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Patrick Eagau, Co. B, 42d Infantry, was brought to hospital at Plattsburg, New York, about 6 o'clock P. M., April 9, 1867, in an unconscious condition, and bleeding profusely from a M ound upon the head, the result of a blow which he had received from a musket, in the hands of an intoxicated soldier. On examinatiou, a lacerated wound, one inch in length and one-(|uarter of an inch in depth, was discovered upon the right orbital ridge; also, a slight tumefaction in right temporal region. Blood was oozing slowly from the ixose and mouth; the eyes turned upward and fixed ; pupils contracted and insensible to light; pulse feeble; countenance pallid ; and the surface of the body cold. The breath was of a decidedly alcoholic character, indicating some degree of inebriation coexisting with concussion of the brain. The case was treated as concussion of the brain. Cold water to the head, hot applications to body and feet, aiul sinapism to spine. At 11 o'clock P. M., patient exhibited symptoms of a reaction; he replied to questions, but rather con-