EEPORT OF StJEGICAL OASES IN THE ARMY. 162 Fig. 34. Wire loop for extracting arrow-lieads embedded in soft parts, (After a drawing by Dr. Bill.) preclude the possibility of rendering the returns required of medical officers. For exam- ple, in several recent instances, the surgeon's own name would be among those appearing m the list of killed or wounded. But, whenever practicable, it is to be desired that full returns of the casualties in these skirmishes and expeditions should be made, and that medical officers should specify the nature and seat of injuries minutely.* Eeference to the reports here printed, and to the papers that have been cited, will suggest most of the facts we possess in connection with arrow-wounds and their treatment. The methods of extracting arrows are de- scribed in detail by Dr. Bill, and several ingenious expedients are described for re- moving the barbed heads of arrows when buried in the soft parts or large cavities, or when impacted in bone. In an instance in which a Navajoe arrow had penetrated the lung for five inches. Dr. Bill succeeded in removing it by means of a snare, as represented in the preceding wood-cut; (Pig. 34), the arrow-shaft being used as a guide to the wire, and the great danger of detaching the head from the shaft being avoided. ■ Where arrow-heads are lodged in bone and cannot be detached by slight traction, aided by a gentle rocking motion of the shaft, the plan which Dr. Bill advises is to procure a piece of well- annealed iron wire, two and a half feet in length, to pass the ends through the holes in a long suture wire-twister, and secure them to its handle (Fig. 35) leaving a loop at the distal extremity (Fig. 36). The loop passed over the feathered end of the shaft is to be thrust down to the other extremity and made to snare the arrow-head, and, the wire being tightened, the foreign body and instrument are to be withdrawn together. Dr. Bill suggests that two straightened catheters soldered together would answer in place of the wire-twister, and the ecraseur now supplied with the army field-instrument cases would probably prove a yet more convenient and reliable implement. But, whenever possible,' it will be preferable to cut down upon the arrow-head and.to remove it with forceps ;—for the surgeon should not work in the dark. The subject of the treatment of arrow-wounds may be passed over with this brief reference to the writings of the medical officers whose observations of such injuries have been most extensive. Further on is an abstract of a case of an arrow-head forming the nucleus of a vesical calculus. In accordance with the plan of this report, it is placed among the operations for lithotomy.- The Army Medical Museum possesses also two remarkable specimens of the penetration of bone by stone arrow-heads. Both appear to Fig. 35. Wire-twister recommended by Dr. Bill. It should bo twelve incbes long (From Dr. Bill's paper.) Fig. 36. Wire loop twLstedonce on itself for snaring imjiacted ar- row heads. (From Dr. Bill's paper.) * In examining the reports, it is often difficult to decide wliether a contused wound that is cited, should be classi- fied wiijh the gunshot, or with other injuries, or to obtain any clew to the cause of an incised or iranctured wound. By noting these particulars, medical officers will greatly facilitate the work of consolidating their re]iorts and arranging the statistical information contained in them.