EEPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IX THE ARMY. 240 abdominal ring-, outward, upward, and inward, toward and nearly on a line with tlie umbilicus. The ligature was passed from within out, about three inches above Poupart's ligament, and one inch above the tumor. Thirty-six hours after operation the stomach became excessively irritable, and remaiued so for three days. The patient vomited whatever he ate. The tumor decreased until June 19th, when lifemorrhage to the amount of twenty-four ounces occurred. Ou the 22d haemorrhage recurred, about three ounces of blood being lost, and death ensned June 25,1867, from exhaustion. At the autopsy, the external iliac was found divided by the ligature about three- fourths of an inch below its origin, the cardiac extremity closed by a firm plug as far up as internal iliac 5 distal end remaining open. The sac of the tumor was filled with a dark fluid and coagula. DCLXIX.—Curtailed Account of a Traumatic Aneurism^ Succsesfully Treated by Ligation of the External Iliac Artery. By J. B. White, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Corporal Wm. A.Johnson, Co. B, 8th Infiintry, aged 22 years, was wounded at Goldsborough, North Carolina, October 23, 1809, by a conoidal ball, which entered right thigh on outer aspect of junction of upper and middle third, and lodged beneath the skin two inches higher up ou inner side. He was admitted to the post hospital at Goldsborough, where the missile was extracted through a counter opening. On November 1st, he was transferred to the post hospital at Raleigh. The wound had entirely healed, but an aneurismal swelling could be perceived to pulsate veiy strongly, and on auscultation a blowing or sawing sound could be heard. The thigh became swollen and cedematous, the circumference of the affected limb being six inches in excess of its fellow, and the patient was emaciated from extreme pain and disquietude. Ou December IGth, ether having been administered, an incision was made, commencing on a line one inch on the inner side of the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, running downwaixl one and a half inches above and parallel with Poupart's ligament, terminating a little without the inner margin of the abdominal ring. The parts were found slightly infiltrated with a light yellowish serum. The sheath of the artery was reached without injury to the peritoneum, and without the division of any vessel of importance. The armed aneurismal needle was passed on the inner side of the artery between it and the vein, and the artery tied at least one inch above the epigastric and circumflex artery. The muscular and integumental lips were tacked together, and adhesive strips applied. The i)atieut rallied promptly, but the pulsation in the limb was entirely gone. Warmth was applied to foot and limb, and stimulants given. On December 18th there was slight oozing from wound of operation, but the patient slejit well, and the size of the leg was rapidly diminishing. On Decem- ber 28th ; the ligature came away, pus was laudable. December 30th: the wound was granulating finely, and the iiatient in excellent spirits. Early in February, 1870, the patient was placed upon crutches, and gradually regained the use of the affected limb, which was slightly auchylosed from long disuse. He was returned to his company in ApriJ, 1870. In May, 1870, Doctor White reports his patient to have entirely recovered. . DCLX.—Eevort relative to a Case in which the External Iliac Artery ivas ligated. By Francis Barnes, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Alfred Sullivan, aged 26 years, was admitted to the Freedmen's Hospital, at New Orleans, Louisiana, on January 16, 1868, suffering from two gunshot wounds, one about two inches below Poupart's ligament, the other about one inch below the first wound. Both were external to the rectus femoris. The ball which caused the lower wound passed to the inside of the femur, and emerged at a point opposite its entrance; the other ball lodged. When I took charge of the ward, the patient was much emaciated, i)ulse 100, appetite feeble, tongue coated, and skin dry. He had no pain, save when his position was disturbed. All the wounds healed except the upper one. A non-fluctuating tumefaction extended from the middle third of the thigh to Poupart's ligament, and to the gluteal muscles. But one position of the limb could be borne, that of flexing the leg upon the thigh at right angles, and flexing the thigh upon the pelvis, with the limb rotated outward. The upper wound would open every few days, and discharge a quantity of grumous black blood.