EEPORT OF SUEGICAL OASES IN THE AEMY. 34 diiiin at its lower end, and on its left side, striking the heart at its apex, carrying away a portion of the left ventricle, opening the cavity—the wonnd in the heart being two inches long, and one and one-fourth inches wide at its widest part. The part of the leit ventricle carried away was the apex—lower and back part. Tlie ball then passed to the left of the spine, fracturing the seventh rib near its junction with the spine. This wound must have caused almost instant death, and the muzzle of the gun, when discharged, must have been in close proximity to the wound. The wound of exit was on a plane seven inches above the wound of entrance. It is to be regretted that in several other cases of gunshot wounds of the heart that came under treatment the observers have failed to report the duration of life after the reception of the injury, or any particulars of the symptoms. XCVIII.—Memorandum of a Gunshot Wotind of the Heart. By C. C. Byene, Surgeon, TJ. S. A. First Sergeant Frederick Kellner, Co. D, 19th United States Infantry, was wounded on November 9, 18G9, by a conoidal pistol-ball, which entered his back, between the fifth and sixth ribs, on the left side, about two inches I'roin spinal column, and passing through the right auricle of heart, lodged under the skiu over the lower portion of sternum. He lived long enough to be admitted to the post hospital at Little Eock, Arkansas, and died the same day. XCiX.—Note of a Case of Ounsliot Woiind of the Heart. By J. A. ToNNER, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private John Gray, Co. D, 2Cth United States Infantry, aged 28 years, was shot through the heart, by a pistohball, on February 9, 18G8. He was admitted into the hospital at Brownsville, Texas, and survived but a short time. C.—Mention of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Heart. By H. E. Tilton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John B. Patterson, Co. B, 7th United States Cavalry, while on duty as sentinel, at Fort Lyon, Colorado Territory, April 17,1870, was wounded by the accidental discharge of his carbine, tlie ball having entered the right groin, and escaped through the neck on the left side, killing him instantly. The ball passed through the bowels, stomach, left lobe of the liver, right ventricle of heart, upper lobe of the left lung, and carried away a portion of the left clavicle. He breathed three times, and then gasped and exi)ired. No cry of pain escaped his lips. CI.—History of a Fatal Gunshot Perforation of the Thorax. By John B. White, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Louis T , Co. K, 40th United States Infantry, was mortally wounded, Decem- ber 15, 18G8, and admitted to post hospital at Ealeigh, North Carolina, in articulo mortis, and died immediately afterward. An autopsy was made one hour after death. The conical ball, from a Springfield breech-loader in the hands of a fellow-soldier, had first passed through the stock of the gun of the deceased; then entering the right thoracic cavity between the second and third ribs, traversed the chest diagonally beneath the ascending aorta, divided the descending vena cava, perforated the superior lobe of the left lung, and, emerging from the chest between the third and fourth ribs, entered the cavity of the axilla, thence into the left arm in its upper third, extensively shattering the left humerus. There Mas scarcely any ha'morrhage externally. The „ „ „ , , , , left thoracic cavity contained a large amount of bloody serum with l lfi.T. Heart, {;>ciit^'''S»<'l>'.i""l P'" '"'" J ^ of iimg i.iiioiatcd i),v .a musket i>iiii. jelly likc clots. The source of internal haemorrhage was from the Spec. 55C7. A. ji. M. division of tlie descending vena cava. The missile having traversed