GUifSHOT WOUNDS OF THE HEAD. 11 ally by a Colt's revolver bullet, on May 29, 1869, wliicli entered tlie left temple, fracturing the occipital bone, then, forcing its way forward in a vertical and slightly downward direction, making its exit on the base of the right temporal bone, immediately above the malar process, killing him almost immediately. The case was reported by Acting Assistant Surgeon Henry Spohn. Private John E. Eenn, Co. D, IGth United States Infantry, aged 21 years, was wounded on July 3, 1868, by a conoidal ball, which entered two inches above the right eye, passed backward, along the center of the right parietal bone, making its exit near the occipito parietal suture. He was admitted from his quarters to the post hospital at McPherson Barracks, Atlanta, Georgia, on July 3, 1868. He died on the morning of July 4, 1868. The case was reported by Assistant Surgeon J. W. Williams, United States Army. XX. —Memorandum of a Case of Fatal Gunshot Injury of tJie Mead. By G. H. GUNN, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private James Osborne, Co. I, 24th United States Infantry, aged 21 years, was wounded on September 17, 1869, by a conoidal bullet, on the left side of the head, during a fracas outside the limits of the garrison. He was admitted into the United States Army post hospital at Fort Eichardson, Texas, on September 18th. His treatment consisted of stimulation with a nutri- tious diet. He died on September 18, 1869. XXI. —Report of a Fatal Gunshot Wound of the Brain. By J. P. Webb, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private John Houle, Co. C, 8th United States Cavalry, wounded by Indians near Collin's Eanch, La Paz route, Arizona Territory, on July 9, 1869, was received into the post hospital at Camp Date Creek, July 11th, after a journey of over sixty miles, under the care of a private physician. Very soon after admission symptoms of pressure appeared,which passed away in the course of twenty- four hours, to be replaced by some indications of cerebral inflammation—pulse ranging from 55 to 60, watering of the eyes, and redness of eyeballs; restlessness and delirium, which lasted a couple of hours of the afternoon, and reappeared about the same time for three days, after which his mind became quite clear, and his speech was unaffected. He exhibited some difficulty in protruding his tongue, which was covered with a dirty white coating for about a week, and then became clean and moist. During the second week, with the exception of the slow pulse, and some restlessness occasionally, there were little or no symptoms to indicate the structural changes taking place Avithin the cranium ; in fact, he presented many appearances of convalescence. About the begin, ning of the third week, he complained of pain in the right side of the head, and paralysis of the left arm made its appearance, gradually extending to the lower extremity. His mind now by degrees became more and more obscured, but without delirium, until a gradually-increasing stujior was merged in comi)lete coma that preceded his death for about twenty-four hours. He died on the 3d of August, having survived the injury twenty-three-days. A post-mortem examination was made on August 4th. There was a circular perforation of the right parietal bone, just behind the tuberosity," and somewhat in a direction from behind forward. Deei)ly imbedded in the brain were found the pieces of bone which belonged to the outer table, and seven comminuted fragments of the inner table and cancellated structure. Immediately beneath these was an abscess, perhaps larger than a goose's egg, filled with well-formed pus, and surrounded to the extent of about one inch by brain matter in a soft and pulpified condition. All the ventricles were found filled with fluid, and the membranes were greatly congested ^g'lmifjj^^^ over the entire brain. The right cerebral hemisphere was otherwise * healthy. The most careful examination failed to discover the ball, which, during life, and almost up to the last moment of fruitless search, I had believed to have lodged in the brain. Having in view the nature of the injury of the cranium, it is to me an entire mystery that I did not find it there. The form of the fracture is shown in the wood cut. The treatraeut, which, with the exception of carbolic-acid dressings to the wound, was entirely medical, was as follows: The rw. 3.-Depvessed.gunshot fracture of 11 I,-, T, ,. , , i-isclit parietal. *i)cc. 5707, Sect. I, A. bowels were thoroughly cleansed by purgatives and enemata, and m.m.