244 EEPOET OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. VARIOUS OPERATIONS. Reports were made of a few operations on the eye and ear and air passages, and of examples of lithotomy and of the removal of tumors. Operations on the Eye or its Appendages,—A case of extraction for cataract, one of staphyloma, one of ectropion, and one of extraction of a foreign body, were specially reported. DCLXIX.—Account of an Operation for Ectropion. By A. C. Gieard, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private William Brown, Co. E, 20th Infantry, was admitted to the hospital at Baton Eo;ige, Louisiana, February 22,18G9, with ectropion of the right eye. The conjuuctiva of the lower eyelid was largely everted and considerably swelled in consequence of a burn, iuvolviug the whole right cheek aud part of the temporal region. There was chronic conjunctivitis oculi and palpebrarum. A V-shaped piece was excised from the external angle of the eye, aud the edges united with twisted suture; the thickened conjunctiva was excised with curved scissors, and parallel to lower eyelid an incision, one and a half inches in length, was made, to relieve tension. Simple dressings were applied, and occasionally cauterization, to insure even granulation. The patient was discharged March 13, 1809, at which date the wound had not entirely healed, • DCLXX,—Account of an Extirpation of the Eye ball for Staphyloma. By G, M. Steknberg, Assistant. Surgeon U. S, A. Private Lewis Johnson, Co. D, 38th Infantry, aged 29, was admitted on June 24, 1867, to the post hospital at Fort Eiley, Kansas. For six months prior to admission the patient had noticed that his right eye was becoming iirominent, and that he could not see with it. On admission there was staphyloma of the sclerotic, near the cornea. The whole eye continued to enlarge slowly in all its diameters, and ulceration at the apex of the staphyloma ensued. The patient suffered from pain in the head and eye, and had frequent attacks of teuq)orary paralysis of the extremities, lasting from one to three houi's. On December 18th, an anaesthetic of one part chloroform aud two parts ether, was administered, aud the globe of the right eye was removed. A circular cut Avas made through the conjunctiva with scissors, hooking up aud cutting the muscles close to their insertion in the globe; the globe was dislocated, and the optic nerve severed with long scissors. A plug of picked lint soaked in alum water was then inserted in place of the globe. On the third day supiiuration was established, and the plug of lint removed. The pain in the head and the attacks of paralysis'ceased, and the patient made an excellent recovery. He was discharged April 8, 1868. DCLXXI—Report of a Case of Traumatic Cataract. By Harvey E. Brown, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John Ehlraan, Battery A, First Artillery, was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Ontario, on June 30, 1870, on account of a severe contusion of the right eye, which had produced so much ecchymosis and eftusiou in the lids that it w'as impracticable to ascertain the condition of the globe until July 3d. It was then found that there was a luxation of the crystalline lens, with extravasation of blood into the anterior chamber, and total loss of sight from traumatic cataract.