154 EEPOET OF SURGICAL OASES IN THE ARMY. fifth Inmliar vertebra, and emerged about two iiiclies to the right of the eiisiforin cartilage. During the evening following, the patient lost about eight ounces of blood externallj', and a small amount internally. He was confined to his bed some two weeks, suffering from irritative fever and circumscribed peritonitis. In four weeks he was walking about; and by July 1st, was actively employed. The arrow was contributed to the Army Medical Museum. CCCCLXXIV.—Account of an Arrow-Wound of the Abdomen. Bj- J, P. Kimball, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private James W. Cooper, Co. E, 31st Infantry, aged twenty years, received, in a fight with Indians near Fort Buford, Dakota Territory, August 20, 18G8, an arrow-wound of the abdominal parietes. The missile entered over the centre of the eighth rib of the right side, and passed downward and forward, to near umbilicus. He also received an incised wound of the right hip. He was admitted to the post hospital on the day of injnrj', complaining of excessive pain. Chloroform was administered, and cutting down upon the head of the arrow, immediately above the umbilicus, it was withdrawn through the incision. The patient reacted promptly, and was doing well until September 25th, when he suddenlj- experienced a severe pain in the right hyi>ochondriac region, and complained of a gurgling sensation. He became faint, and evinced symptoms of internal haemorrhage. Cold water was applied to the abdomen, and anodynes were administered. On Sei)tember 30th, he was slowly imi)roviug; and on December 31,1.808, he was still under treat- ment. This man was returned to duty in February, 1809. CCCCLXXV.—.Report of an Arrow-Wound of the Bad: and Kidney. By Calvlnt DeWitt, Assist- ant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Conrad Tragesor, Troop I, 8th Cavalry, was wounded in an engagement with Apache Indians, at Sunflower Valley, Arizona Territory, March 9,1870, by an arrow, which entered the left side, about four inches from the spine, and above the crest of the ileum, from below upward. The kidney evidently' was injured, as the patient passed bloody urine in small quantities, and frequently. His face was pale, anxious, and expressive of great pain; pulse weak. He was couvej'td in an ambulance to Camp McDowell, Arizona Territory, a distance of thirty miles, over a rough, stony, and hilly road. He died the next day. At the autopsy, it was found that the arrow had trans- fixed the kidney, entering it on the external border, at the juncture of middle and lower thirds emerg- ing f rom the posterior surface near the internal border, a few lines below the pelvis. A large irregular piece, about one inch long, and half an inch thick, was torn from the posterior border of the kidney at the place of entrance, evidently by the traction made in extracting the arrow, leaving the head behind. The kidney was otherwise normal; the abdomen was filled with blood. CCCCLXXVI.—Account of an Arrotv-Wound of the Pelvis and Abdomen. By J ames P. Kimball, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. To-Kah K-ten, or " he that kills his enemy," an Indian scout, in a quarrel with a fellow-scout, at Fort Buford, Dakota Territory, Januar^^ 3, 1870, received a penetrating arrow-wound of the pelvis and abdomen. The arrow entered midway between the right ischium and the anus. The shaft of the arrow having been withdrawn before he came under surgical observation, the exact direction of the arrow could not be determined, but, as the blood marks on the shaft showed that it had penetrated about twelve inches, and the arrow-head would make at least three inches more, it is sui)posed that the arrow had passed up through the i^elvis into the abdomen. Opiates were administered, and light diet and perfect quiet enjoined. The case apparently progressed favorably for several days, when peritonitis supervened, and death ensued January 18, 1870.