EEPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 270 The morpliiue, wine and raw egg, brandy, and beef-essence were continued, loth : Spasms continue unchanged in severity: muscles of extremities rigid; pulse 95, and diminished in -v^olume. Treatment continued; beef-essence and brandy given at shorter intervals. 18th: Patient improving; spasms not so severe; and there is less rigidity of muscle. For the last three days, he has had paroxsyms of spasms, commencing at 11 o'clock A. M. Four grains of quinine were ordered to be given twice daily, in addition to previous treatment. 21st: Patient continues to improve. He is now able to separate his jaws about an inch, and enjoys his food, still given in a liquid form. Pulse 87 and increased in volume. Spasms became less frequent, and ceased entirely February 3d, since, which date has had no symptoms of tetanus. 23d: He was attacked by epilepsy, of a very severe grade, to which he has been subject several years. The convulsions continued, at intervals over half a day, when finally checked by chloroform. February 29th: Is now doing well, although his hands are still very sore from the eftects of the burn. This man was discharged the service June 11, 18G8, at Vicksburg, Mississippi, for burns. DCCXX.—Rejwrt of a Case of Tetanus treated with Calahar Bean. By Charles Smart, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Hugh Nugent, bugler Ti'oop K, 5th Cavahy, on November 8,18G9, at Washington, injured his left fore-arm by a fall from his horse on the curbstone, causing a lacerated and slightly contused wound about an inch and a half below the inner condyle of humerus. The joint was uninjured. Cold- water dressings and simple ointment were applied until November 17th, when the patient com- plained of stiffness in the muscles of the injured fore-arm and the back of the neck, and that he could not separate his jaws as usual, which sym^jtoms he ascribed to a cold. He was admitted to the Sedgwick Barracks Hospital, when a hot-air batli was given, the wound dressed with bread and milk poultice, and Dover's powder administered. Excepting the stiff ness of neck and inability to separate the jaws he felt comfortable, but had no desire for food. Several attempts to swallow a teaspoonful of wine occasioned violent choking feelings, and spasms of the muscles of neck. At 7 P. M., however, the stiffness of muscles of neck was continuous, and the muscles of the spine were implicated. Every ten minutes an exacerbation took place lasting a few seconds, during which the abdomen and chest were thrown forward and the head back, while the face became flushed, and brows corrugated and the teeth clenched and exposed by the parted lips; pulse 100, increasing during and after exacerbation to 120. One-third of a grain of extract of Calabar bean was given in the form of a pill. At 8 o'clock, as no change was perceptible, the dose was repeated, and again at 9 P. M. At 10.30 one-third of a grain of the extract was injected under the skin of the right fore-arm, and oue-half grain one hour later. The only result was the fall of the pulse from 100 to 80, while the patient was quiet. Although he complained of pain and stiffness in the neck and back, no marked rigidity of the muscles in those regions was observed. At 1.30 A. M., on November 18th, sulphate of morphia was given, but without manifest effect. At 9 A. M., during an exacerbation, spasm of the diaphragm was indicated, more particularly at the attachments to the ribs on the right side. At 9.30 A. M., half a grain of the extract was given per orem, and repeated at 11. No benefit was derived from the administration; on the contrary, his condition became worse, the diaphragmatic spasms beipg continuous, i^ulse 100 to 140, skin hot but moist, and forehead beaded. Four ounces of chicken-tea and three ounces of wine were administered by feeding bottle with a rubber teat. At 4 P. M., two grains of the grated kernel of the Calabar bean in a drachm of water were given by a quill, and this was repeated at 5.30 At 7 P. M. the dose was increased to three grains and repeated at 9 o'clock, with the effect of producing marked contraction of the i:>ui)ils. No change for the better could be discovered. The spasms continued, and the patient showed signs of exhaustion. At 11 P. M. four grains of the grated kernel, with one grain of sulphate of morphia, were given, which ameliorated the sufferings of the jiatient, who fell into a dose, which lasted till 3 A. M., November 19th. During his sleep, however, the paroxysms would occasionally return. On awakening, his face was cadaveric, his pupils contracted to one- sixteenth of an inch, but he declared that he felt good. Wine being given, spasms were induced, which lasted about thirty seconds. The possibility of introducing nutritives by euemataprecluded by