* 210 EEPOET or SURGICAL CASES IN THE AEMY. 1866, Pension Examiner elolin 0. Helm reported that there was inflammation of the synovial capsule, which had resulted in suppuration and abscess. There were then five or six jioints discharging- pus; the knee was swollen and enlarged, and there was general oedeniatous infiltration of the whole limb. The patient was at his home (Eaton, Delaware County, Indiana), unable to leave his bed, and his disability was rated total and permanent. On September 26, 1867, Dr. Helm reported <^liat the leg was about as before described, except that it was worse, and was Avearing down the patient's health, and that no relief could be afforded except by amputation. In the latter part of May, 1869, he was fitted with an artificial limb by Hiram A. Kimball, wlio stated that the thigh had been amputated ou February 19, 1868 (amount of limb lost twenty-four inches), by the flap operation. The stump was less than normal size, but was perfectly healed. DXCVII.—BemarJcs on an Amj)i( tation of the Th if/hfor Ounshot Injury. By S. M. Horton, Assist- ant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Joseph McKeever, Co. E, 27th Infantry, aged 28 years, was wounded in an engagement with the Indians near Goose Creek, Dakota Territory, i^ovember 4, 1867, by a round ball, which fractured and extensively comminuted the left femur in its lower third. He was admitted to the post hospital. Fort Philip Kearney, Dakota Territory, on the same day. The femur was greatly comminuted for seven inches. Extensive Inemorrhage followed the removal of a large clot while cleansing the wound. The patient seemed to be in good health, and did not appear to staffer much from the wound. On November 6th, I administered equal parts of ether and chloroform, and amputated the thigh at the junction of middle and lower thirds by a large anterior and small posterior-flap method. The patient did well, and partook of stimulants freely xmtil the evening of the 7th, when his pulse became very weak. Death resulted on the morning of November 8, 1867, from nervous prostration. The autopsy revealed a good attempt at the formation of a fibrinous plug above the ligature of the femoral artery. DXCVIII.—Memorandum relative to an Amputation of the Thigh for Gunshot Inpiry. By W. H. FoRWOOD, Assistant Surgeon, TJ. S. A. Private John Martin, Troop H, 7th Cavalry, was wounded in quarters on March 15,1867, by a missile which entered the left thigh anteriorly at the junction of the upper and middle thirds, passed through the quadratus femoris, semi membranosus and semi-tendinosus muscles, and, injuring the coats of the femoral vessels, fractured the femur longitudinallj" six inches. He was admitted to the post hospital, Fort Eiley, Kansas, on the same day, the injured parts being much swollen and lacerated, the coats of the femoral vessels torn, and pieces of bone detached and driven into the soft parts. The patient being somewhat intoxicated, was much excited, and suffered great pain. His general health was good; pulse 95. Chloroform was administered, and the left thigh amputated at the junction of the upper and middle thirds by the lateral-flap method. There was but little hfemori'hage; the femoral artery only was tied. Silk sutures, adhesive straps, and cold- water dressings were applied. By March 31, 1867, all symptoms were very favorable, and a good result was anticipated. DXCIX.—Report of a Primary Amputation of the Thigh for Compound Comminuted Fracture. By B. J. D. Irwin, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private James McN , Company H, 43d Infantry, aged 33 years, received, Avliile intoxicated. Aj)ril 30, 1868, a compound comminuted fracture of the lower third of the left thigh by being run over by a street car in the city of Detroit, Michigan, some three miles from Fort Wayne. He was temporarily attended by physicians in Detroit, and brought to the post hospital at Fort Wayne, May 1, 1868, about 8 o'clock A. M. The interior side of the thigh, from within three inches of the groin, down to the knee, was much lacerated; the bone was protruding; no arterial hajmorrhage had taken place. There was nausea and vomiting, owing to the presence of liquor, of