259 LITHOTOMY. the uretlira. The water continued to be discharged through the urethra and wound of entrance for live months, Avhen the latter gradually closed. It opened again, however, in a few weeks, and continued alternately to close and open at varying intervals until September, 1865, when he came to me. For two months after being wounded he was confined to the bed ; after this he was able to go about with the aid of cratches. At the end of four months he could walk slowly without assistance, and was for a long time engaged as clerk for the post quartermaster at Staunton. In September, ISG-j, he applied to me with symptoms of stone in the bladder. On sounding him, the stone vras readily discovered, being against the posterior wall of the bladder, and apparently fixed in that situation. His general health was very bad, in consequence of the pain and continued irritation he suttered, and the fistulous opening in front still remained discharging urine and pus. After some days of careful preparatory treatment, I performed the lateral operation, aud found the stone attached to the mucous membrane, over and around the old wound in the posterior wall of the bladder. He recovered without any untoward symptoms; the fistulous opening closing at the same time that the wound in the perinaium was healed, and he was out of bed on the fifteenth day. I heard from him a few days ago, and learned that the fistulous track had never reopened, and that his health and strength were excellent. The calculus, which was presented to the Army Medical Museum byDr.H. McGuire, is rep- resented in wood- cut ifos. 01 and 02, aud consists principally of the triple phosphates of lime aud mag- nesia, and weigh- ed, immediately after its removal? two and a quarter ounces; it has for its nucleus a piece of bone about half an inch long. T'lG. 61.—Extend view of a iirinary calculus. Spec. 5041, Sect. I, A. M. M. Fig. 6-2—Sectioual view of tlie calculus. DCOIII.—Account of an Operation for Lithotomy, in which a Ball ivith a Phosphatic Incrustation was Successfully Removed. By J. L. Forwood, M. D. Thomas Lindsey, of Co. F, G9th Pennsylvania Volunteers, aged 43 years, was wounded at Gettysburg, on July 2, 1803, while in a kneeling posture, by a ball which, after passing through his canteen, entered the thigh. On January 18,1804, he was discharged the service at the Newton University Hospital, in Baltimore. On his return home to Chester, Pennsylvania, he suffered many of the symptoms of stone in the bladder, for which he was treated from time to time, until February, 1800, when an operation for strangulated hernia, the result of dyspnoea, became necessary. On April 12, 1800, the operation of lithotomy was performed upon the patient, when, most unexpectedly, an irregularly shaped ball, coated with a phosphatic deposit, was removed from the bladder, weighing 708 grains. The operation was successful, and at last accounts the patient was well, and living in the vicinity. DCCIV.—Memorandum relative to a Vesical Calculus, the Nucletis of which was an Iron Ball. Con- densed from Eeports by A. N. Dougherty, M, D., late Medical Director of the Second Army Corps. William Cockcroft, late a private of Co. D, 199th Pennsylvania Volunteers, aged 42 years, was admitted to the New Jersey Home for Disabled Soldiers, on May 30, 1807, to be treated for "shingles" (herpes zoster). A week afterward he was discharged cured, without having complained of any urinary disorder. In the fall the patient returned to be treated for painful micturition, aud stated