REPOET OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. 6 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. The returns of the Army for the past five years present a comparatively large num- ber of gunshot wounds, received either in Indian hostilities, or accidentally, or in brawls, or attempts to evade or escape from arrest. The more important of these cases will be enumerated, as nearly as may be in the order of the anatomical regions in which the wounds were inflicted, with such subdivisions as are most convenient. Gunshot AVounds of the Head.—Few of the cases of this series present peculiari- ties, yet some of them are not devoid of interest. I. —N'ote on q. Case of Gtinshot Fracture of the Frontal Bone. By 0. C. Byrne, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Richard Jenkins, Co. B, 82d United States Colored Troops, aged 25 years, was accident- ally wounded, at St. Augustine, Florida, on April 26,1860, by the explosion of a fowling-piece. A fragiueut of iron perforated both tables of the frontal bone. He was admitted to tlie post hospital, where the foreign substance was extracted, and cold-water dressings were applied. He was returned to duty May 25, 1866. II. —Report of a Gunshot Fracture of the Mastoid Process. By A. A. Woodhull, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. At Fort Larned, Kansas, Artificer Charles Andruss, Co. K, 3d United States Infantry, was wounded November 8, 1868, near Fort Gibson, Cherokee Nation, by the accidental discharge of a musket. The case was reported in the Monthly Report of Sick and Wounded, for March last, from which this is an extract. The ball entered the side of the neck, passed across the mastoid process, and through the external ear ; the bone was slightly injured, and the external ear nearly destroyed. He was treated in hospital at Fort Gibson, Cherokee Nation, until February 18th, 1868, when he was sent to join his comiiany at this post. The wound has nearly healed, except a little discharge from the ear. There was partial deafness. He was discharged from service June 28, 1869. III. —N'ote of a Case of Gunshot Fracture of the Frontal Bone. By J. H. Patzki, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Corporal John Connor, Co. H, 6th United States Cavalry, aged 25, was wounded in a fight with the Indians, July 12, 1870, by a conoidal ball, which fractured the external table of the frontal bone, over the sinus. He was admitted, on July 14th, to the post hospital at Fort Richardson, Texas. Portions of bone exfoliated, and on August 29th, fragments were removed, and the edges of the wound were freshened and united by metallic sutures. The wound healed readily. The corj)oral was returned to duty on September 12,1870. IV. —Bemarlcs on a Case of Gunshot Tnjuri/ of the Head. By G. McC. Miller, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. " Private George Greenland, Co. 1), 5th United States Infantry, was wounded, at a fandango, by a i»istol ball, on the niglit of (Jctobei'10, 1S68, near Fort Reynolds, Colorado Territory. The wonnd was situated on the right side of tlie head, over the parietal bone, longitudinal in direction,