REPOET OF SUEGICAL OASES IN THE ARMY. 1G8 December 21 st, 1870, There ho grew much more intoxicated, and, it was understood, became involved in a fracas. About or after midnight, he left, or was turned from a saloon, and was found in the morning in a wagon near by, in a badly-frozen condition. Tlie thermometer marked 23° below the zero of Fahrenheit during the period of his exposure, and against this excessive cold he was not specially i)rotected. On admission to the hospital at Fort Lyon, Colorado Territory, about 10 A. M., he was very much prostrated, and both feet and the left hand were frozen. They had been rubbed with snow, and soaked in ice-water before arriving, wliich treatment was continued for more than two hours in a cold room. When first discovered, both feet were stated to be stiff above the ankle. Moderate reaction having set in, he was provided with food, and his feet and hands were enveloped in lint wet with olive oil and lime-water. There was a slight scalp-wound on the left side, and he complained of severe pain and soreness in the stomach, as if from a blow, and of pain in the left shoulder. An examination of the shoulder could detect no injury. He was much depressed in mind at the extent of his accident and at the circumstaiices under which it was received, and at no time rallied so as to be either cheerful or sanguine. For the first four days the patient did reasonably well, and in consequence of his usual ro'bust health, no more disastrous result than the partial loss of his hand and feet was anticipated. A little carbolic acid was added to the dressing. About the 24th, although some sensation remained, it was evident he would lose his toes, and a line of demarkation began to show itself the next day, near the tarsus of the right foot, and a little lower on the left. Both heels were also badly vesicated, and amputation was deferred until it could be determined how deeply the slough would descend, and especially the extent of the injury to the heel. No special treatment was adopted, except as to the regulation of his bowels and the use of opiates to subdue nocturnal i^ains. All this time his comrades noticed his unusual and decided melancholy. On the 27th, perspiration was * observed, but it was ascribed to the artificial heat of the ward. On the 28th, his countenance changed, and he rapidly became Avorse, with some mental aberration. Stimulants were ordered freely. It was then my intention to amputate the next day, if possible. On the 29th both legs, especially the right, were swollen and cedematous, and had an erysipelatous blush, pit- ting deeply on pressure, and precluding the idea of the knife. Beef essence and strong milk punch were freely and constantly given, and two drachms of the tincture of the sesquichloride of iron were ordered to be taken within twenty-four hours. This was steadily continued night and day through- out the case. The following is from the clinical record, December 29th, 9.30 A. M.: Temp. 101|-; 2 o'clock, P. M., 104; pulse 134; respiration 28; 7 P. M.: Temp. 104; pulse 125; respiration 32. December 30th, 7 A. M.: Temp. 102|; pulse 132; respiration 32; 2 P. M.: Temp. 102f; pulse 130; respiration 34; 7 P. M.: Temp. 104 ; pulse 122 ; respiration 35. During all this time he was in a typhoid delirium, and he died at 1.10 P. M. December 31st. The right foot was examined three hours after death, with the view of determining how far a Syme's amputation would have been justified. The flesh of the heels was found softened; the ankle was firmer than was antici- pated, but a section of the anterior tibial, in the lower part of its course, showed it filled with a purulent-looking fluid. No further examination was considered necessary, the whole course of the symptoms pointing so clearly to blood-poisoning. CCOCXOV.—Mention of Two Cases of Frost Bite occurring at Fort AbercromMe, Dalcota Territory. By W. D. WolyertojST, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John W. Owens, Co. A, 20th Infantry, aged 24 years, was admitted to the hospital January 28, 1870, with frost bite of the right foot, which was treated with carbolic acid and olive oil. He was discharged from service while in hospital by reason of his term having e:^ured. Private Alexander Brandt, Co. I, 20th Infantry, aged 21 years, was admitted February 13, 1870, with frost bite of the large toe of the right foot, which was treated with carbolic acid and olive oil. When mortification appeared, poultices were used; after separation of slough, a weak solution of carbolic acid and water. He was discharged from hospital on May 10th, and left with his company for Pembina, the wound being not quite healed.