237 LIGATIONS m THE UPPER EXTEEMITY. being admitted to hospital the arm was much swollen, and there was considerable haemorrhage. Secondary hfemorrhage occurred from perhaps both radial and ulnar arterjr, on July 31st, when the brachial artery was ligated in the lower third, while the patient was under the influence of chloroform. Recurring hjemorrhage was controlled by compresses, which were removed on the third day after the operation. The ligature came away on August 12th, and on August 19, 18G7, the patient was doing well. He was returned to duty in September, 1867. jyCXhlX.—AIinute of a Case in tcMch a Branch of the Radial Artery ivas ligated. By E. P. Vollum, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Frank Henrietta, Battery F, 1st Artillery, aged 18 years, was accidentally wounded at Madison Barracks, Sackett's Harbor, New York, October 27, 18G9, by the discharge of a shot- gun. The left hand was over the muzzle; the load passed into the palm and carried away a portion of the metacarpal bones of the little and ring fingers. He was at once admitted to the post hospital, where fragments of the metacarpal bone of the little finger were removed from the wound, and a branch of the radial artery was ligated by Hospital Steward John S. Perkins. The edges of the wound were brought together by sutures, and dry lint was applied. On December 30, 1869, the wound had nearly closed. The patient was returned to duty in March, 1870. BCh.—Minute of a Case of Ligation of the Radial Artery. By. E. T. Bakee, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon- Private William McBride, Co. F, 12th Infantry, aged 24 years, received, on September 22, 1868, an incised wound on the dorsal surface of the right hand, severing the radial artery. He was admitted to hospital at Oglethorpe Barracks, Savannah, Georgia, where both extremities of the artery were ligated. On September 30,1868, the patient was doing well. He was returned to duty in October, 1868. DCLI.—Minute of a Case of Ligation of the Radial Artery. By J. F. Head, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private James Quinan, of the cavalry detachment at West Point, struck his fist through a window pane, and severed the radial artery, May 31,1868. Assistant Surgeon E. J. Marsh enlarged the wound of incision and tied both ends of the artery with silk ligatures. Considerable swelling followed, but the wound healed with slight suppuration. On June 9th, the ligatures were removed, and on June 18th, the patient was returned to duty. DCLII.—Minute of a Case in which the Radial Artery teas ligated. By E. T. Bakee, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgfeon. Private 0. P. Eay, Co. I, 16th Infantry, aged 21 years, was wounded on January 6, 1868, near Atlanta, Georgia. The ball passed between the thumb and index finger of the right hand and severed the radial artery. He was admitted to the post hospital. A tourniquet applied to the artery to control the haemorrhage, caused considerable tumefaction, and the patient became debil- itated. Secondary hsemorrhage occurred, and on January 27th, the radial artery was ligated in its lower third, while the patient was under the influence of chloroform. The wound healed in about a week; the hand remained weak and partially paralyzed for some time, but eventually recovered entirely. The patient returned to duty in March, 1868. DCLIII.—Wote on a Ligation of the Radial Artery. By John M. Dickson, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Alonzo Toungman, Co. D, 23d Infantry, received a severe gun-shot wound of the wrist- joint, in a skirmish with Indians, at Lake Warner, Oregon, April 29,1868. The radial artery being