KEPORT OP SUliGlCAL OASES IN THE ARMY. 214 left femur. One-half tlie ball had been extracted, and the femur had united so that he was able to walk with a cane in six months; but he always had pain in the region of the first wound, and in September, 18G7, the difficultj^ of locomotion increased. Cutting down upon the tumor it was found to be scirrhous, extending across beneath the anterior ligament, and continuous with the synovial membranes of the joint, which were increased to an inch in thickness. The tumor ami the tibia were found to be softening. The patient was unsuccessfully treated until July 17, when amputation of the thigh just above the seat of the fracture was performed. The wound was dressed with carbolic acid and glycerine, and healed by first intention, except at the points of exit of the ligatures. On September 18,1868, the operator reported his patient to be " well and hearty," and transmitted to the- Army Medical Museum the ijathological specimens, which are numbered 5479 and 5480, respectively, of the Surgical Section. The first is the lower hall' of the left femur, showing a well united oblique fracture; the second, the proximal extremity of the tibia, perforated antero-posteriorly, from which the entire cancellous tissue is absent. Amputations at the Hip-Joint. DCX.—Bejwrt of a Case of Secondary Amputation at the Sq) for Gunshot Injury* By Henry A. DuBois, Assistant Surgeon U. S. A. ♦ " Antonio Mutieres, a Mexican, aged 33 years, employed by the Quartermaster's Department as a teamster, was received into the post hospital at Fort Union, New Mexico, on May 11, 1867. Early that morning he had had a difficulty with another Mexican, employed in the same train, which resulted in his drawing a pistol on his opponent, who instantly drew his revolver and fired at Mentieres, the ball taking eifect in his left hip. I saw the case soon after the patient's admission, » at about eleven in the forenoon, and found the wound of entrance about two inches beneath and a little in fi^ont of the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. The man was suffering but little, and there was scarcely any haemorrhage. I enlarged tlie wound and introduced my finger, and traced the ball to the neck of the femur, where it was firmly lodged in the anatomical neck of the bone. With a Tiemann's bullet forceps, I, with some trouble, removed the ball and a small ])iece of wadding. It was an ordinary conical revolver ball, and was fired from a distance not exceeding two or three yards. The man was kept perfectly quiet, a cold-water dressing applied, and he was fed with easily digested and nourishing food. At this time, and for the period of some two weeks, there was no inflammation involving the joint, a smart blow on the heel causing no pain. The patient gradually lost flesh, but suffered little. The discharge from the wound consisted of ill formed pus having little smell, and occasionally streaked with blood. A few small fragments of bone were subsequently exfoliated. The patient slept but little, and pre- spired much at night ; his appetite also diminished, and he was evidently losing strength daily. To these symptoms the following were afterward superadded: Intense pain running up the side and down the thigh to the ankle, much aggravated by the slightest movement or by the least pressure on the part. These symptoms increasing, I proposed the operation afterward performed, but could not gain the patient's consent thereto, he informing my interpreter that he would be up and on his crutches in two weeks. I had, previous to this, made up my mind as to the propriety of amputating at the hip, and felt confident of ultimately obtaining the patient's consent as a relief from the terrible pain suffered in these cases. I had rejected the operation of excision, as in the only case in which I had performed itt it had caused a shock as great to the system as I believed would result from amputation, and though I found any number of authors who recom- mended excision, in ijreference to amputation, in this class of cases, I found also that they had, with few exceptions, never tried, or seen it tried, in cases resulting from gunshot injuries. Of the thirty- two cases in which excision was performed during the late war, four only were successful, and how far they succeeded in giving a useful limb is not fully recorded.| Surgeon J. 0. McKee, who was * Seo a Eeport on Amputations at the Hip-Joint in Military Surgery, Circular No. 7, S. G. O., 1867, p. 46 ; and American Medical Record, Vol. II, p. 266. t See a Report on Excisions of the Head of tlie Femur for Gunshot Injury, Circular No. 2, S. G. O., 186D, CascLVI, p. 49. t See Circular No. 6, S. G. O., 1865, pp. 61-74.