36 EEPOET OF SURGICAL OASES IN THE AEMY. C VII.—Minutes of an Autopsy in a Case oj Gunshot Wound of the Eeart. By J. H. T. King, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. On the nigbt of April 30, 1869, John Ahlfeldt, first sergeant of Co. D, 31st United States Infantry, was shot by one of the men belongiug to his company, and died instantly. Sevtio cadaveris, fourteen hours, post-mortem. Rigor mortis well marked. Externally two gunshot wounds were discovered: one, the largest, anteriorly, at the lower border of the cartilages of the ribs on the left side; one posteriorly immediately below the inferior angle of the right scapula. On opening the chest a large quantity of blood was found in the cavity of the right pleura; tissue of lungs normal; inferior lobe of right lung wounded. The missile had traversed its superior and internal i)ortions horizontally and toward the left side, thus entered the pericardium, and completely lacerated right side of the heart near the right auriculo-ventricular valves, exposing the internal surface of both right auricle and right ventricle, making its exit at the wound on the anterior surface of body before described. CVIII.—Report of an Autopsy in a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Heart. By F. Meacham, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. On January 29, 1869, at Camp Douglas, Utah Territory, Hospital Steward Lucius O'Brien, United States Army, was killed in the evening while returning from the city to camp. The autopsy was made twelve hours after death. Rigor mortis well marked. The wound was found on a line midway between the left nipple and the sternal end of the right clavicle near the left border of the sternum. On opening the thorax, it was found that a pistol-ball had passed through the cartilage of the third rib, near its junction with the sternum; thence through the right ventricle of the heart, near the origin of the left pulmonary artery, passing through one of the semilunar valves; thence into the left auricle of the heart through the superior lobe of the left lung, and lodged between and behind the posterior ends of the ninth and tenth ribs, from which position the ball was removed. The course of the ball was in a downward direction—that is, the point of lodgement was on a lower plane than the point of entrance. This non-commissioned oflflcer was undoubtedly murdered. Gunshot Wounds of the Chest involving the Spine.—Eiglit fatal cases were reported of gunsliot chest wounds with injury of the vertebral column. CIX.—Memorandum of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Spine and Chest. By D. L. Magkuder, Sui'geon, U. S. A. Brevet Lieutenant Colonel David H. Buel, Ordnance Corps, was assassinated at the arsenal, near this post (Fort Leavenworth), on the night of the 22d of July, between the hours of ten and eleven P. M. The assassin shot him from behind, with a rifled breech-loading musket, just after his having entered the yard in front of his residence. The ball entered the back, about two inches to the left of the median line, and emerged on the right side of the chest, about four inches to the right of the anterior median line. The spinal column was severed between the sixth and seventh ribs, and the right lung was torn by fragments of both bone aiul ball. Death resulted immediately. OX.—Note of a Case of Gunsliot Wound of the Spine and of the Aorta. By William J. Wilson, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. In March, 1870, near Fort Brown, Texas, private Thomas Logan, Co. K, 10th United States Infantry, is reported ashaving died from a gunshot wound. He had been out in Brownsville, without permission, and when arrested by the patrol attempted to escape from their custody. He was tired at and instantly killed, tlu'ball striking him in tlie spine, about tlie sixtli dorsal vertebra, passing ujiward and outward, through the arch of the aorta, and emerging about three inclies to the inner side of the left shoulder. \U\ must liavc been running in a stooping position when fired at.