40 REPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE ARMY. Gunshot Wounds of the Abdominal and Thoracic Cavities.—There are instances of recovery from such injuries, but they are exceptional. An interesting example is recorded in the surgical report in Circular 6, Surgeon General's Office, 1865, page 24. The nine cases here recorded were fatal. One patient survived fifty hours, three others a few hours, and the rest perished in a few minutes, or instantaneously. CXVII.—Report of a Gunshot Wound of the Thorax and Abdomen. By Samuel S. Jessop, Assistant Siirgeou, U. S. A. At Chester, South Carolina, Private George W. Dormau, Co. K, 6th United States Infantry, was shot, November 24,18G7, at 10 in the evening, while resisting arrest, having previously escaped from the sentinel. The missile was a conical ball; the weapon a breech-loadiug Springfield rifle. The autopsy was made twelve hours after death, and showed the following: The ball entered on the right side, between the eighth and ninth ribs, three aud three-quarter inches below the nipple, and five and a half inches posterior to a line drawn from the nipple to the anterior superior spinous process of ilium. It made its exit on the left side, three and a half inches below the nipple, and a half inch in front of a line from the nipple to the anterior superior spinous process, fracturing in its course the eighth rib, at the point of junction with its cartilage. The liver was the only viscus wounded by the shot, which passed almost transversely through it. It presented a very singular appearance. From the point of entrance of the ball, fissures radiated in every direction, looking as if the liver had been exploded. Internally, it was completely disorganized, being merely a pulpy mass, inclosed by thin fissured walls. When uninjured, it was normal; there was no degeneration of tissue. The hsem- orrhage from the wound was enormous, and was chiefly external. The diaphragm was cut near the point of exit of the ball, and the left lung was collapsed; the heart and lungs were superficially exam- ined ; the latter appeared to be healthy ; the former was slightly fatty. About two ounces of fluid were found in the pericardium. After leaving the body the ball entered the left fore-arm at its middle third dorsal surface, fractured the ulna, and came out on palmar surface, then struck a young mulatto man, who was, it is said, about eight feet from Dorman, entering the abdomen about one and a half inches above the pubes, and one inch to the left of the median line, penetrating the ilium, where it lodged. It was extracted about two hours afterward, but the mulatto died twenty-three hours after he was shot. Dorman survived the injury about twenty minutes. The soldier who shot him, and who was the only person who saw the affair, it being a dark night, esti- mates that he was about eight paces from him when he fired. CXVIII.—ISFote of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Thorax and Abdomen. By Joseph R. Gibson, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Case.—Private Thomas McCoy, Co. H, 3d United States Cavalry, shot himself by the discharge of his carbine while on duty as sentinel over a party of prisoners; the gun slipped from his hands, and the hammer, catching, exploded. The missile entered about an inch toward the median line, at thejiuiction of the cartilage of the eighth and ninth ribs of the right side, ranged backward and upward, and emerged at the back, near the right scapula, passing through the right lung in its course, aiul probably through the left border of the livei'. Death was instantaneous. Considerable luemorrhage occurred after death. CXIX.—Report of a Gunshot Wound of the Thorax and Abdomen. By James F. Weeds, Surgeon, U. S. A. Private John Ford, Co. G, 45th United States Infantry, was shot in Nashville, Tennessee, on the night of February 11, ISO!). The bullet passed througli the right arm, four inches above the elbow, entered the side of the thorax, breaking the seventh rib in its middle third, opened the riglit pleural cavity, but did not wound tlic lung—peiu'tratcd tli(> diaphragm, entered the liver at its right border, traversed tiiis viscus from right to left, impinged on the body of a dorsal vertebra