102 EEPORT OF SURGICAL CASES IN THE AEMT. CCCXXXVIII.—iV^ofe of a Punctured Wound of the Abdomen. By C. W. Young, M. D., Acting- Assistant Surgeon. Private John Carey, Co. G, lOtli Infantry, was wounded in a quarrel, November 26,1SG9, by a pocket knife, which entered the left side, jjenetrating the abdominal cavity. He was admitted to the post hospital at Helena, Texas. Simple dressings were applied, and the man was returned to duty January 16, 1870. CCCXXXIX.—Bejyort of a Bayonet Wound in tlie Hypochondriac Region. By J. W. Williams, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private William H. Huber, Co. K, 5th Artillery, was stabbed with a bayonet on the night of November 21, 1870, at Fort Sullivan, Maine. The point of the bayonet entered the left hypochon- driac region, between the eleventh and twelfth ribs, and from before, backward and below, upward, apparently injuring the spleen. The patient lost about twenty ounces of blood in a few minutes, from which he fainted. Dark-colored blood continued to issue from the wound for two days. The abdomen was considerably distended with blood, but no evident symptoms of peritonitis set in at any time. The patient was kept under full doses of opium. At the date of this writing the Ijatient is convalescent. [He was returned to duty in December, 1870.—Ed.] CCCXL.—Notes of two Cases of Lance- Wounds. By J. H. McMahon, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. Case I.—Private John Foster, Co. K, 9th Cavalry, received a punctured flesh-wound of the right gluteal region, by a lance, September 12,1868. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Davis, Texas, on the 14th. Simple dressings were applied, and he was returned to duty on September 18, 1868. Case II.—Private Gilbert Colyer, Troop F, 9th Cavalry, was wounded at the battle of Horse- Head Hills, Texas, September 12, 1868, by a lance which penetrated the thorax, entering on the right side, seven inches from the spine, between the sixth and seventh ribs. The lung was unin- jured. Simple dressings were applied to the wound. He recovered and was returned to duty in October, 1868. CCCXLI.—Note of Ptmctured Wounds of the Arm and Shoulder. By G. H. GUNN, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Samuel Eidley, Co. I, 9tli Cavalry, aged 24 years, was wounded, October 22, 1870, by a kuife, Avhich entered the superior and inner angle of the scapula and middle of right arm. He was admitted to the post hospital at Fort (Juitman, Texas, the same day. Simple dressings were applied. He died on October 30th, from hamiorrhage. CCCXLII.—Note of a Puncttired Wound of the Thujh. By Aakon Ansell, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon. At Fort Inge, Texas, August 4,1867, Lieutenant N. J. McCafiferty, Co. K, 4th Cavalry, received a punctured wound of the thigh, penetrating the femoral artery {sic). He was admitted to the post hospital, where simple dressings Avere applied. The ha-morrhage was controlled, and the ollicer returned to duty, August 17, 1867. CCCXLIII.—Report of an Incised and Punctured Wound of the Knee-Joint, having a Fatal Besult. By Calvin DeWitt, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Corporal Henry Atley, Co. E, 3d Cavalry, received an incised and punctured wound of the right knee-joint, on April 10, 1870, while on escort duty near Camp McDowell, Arizona Territory; liis horse becoming restive, crowded his right leg against the saddle-bags of a comrade, from which a large knife was i)rotrudiiig. The knife entered at the outer side of the ])()])liteal s])ace, passed obli<iuely Ui»\vard and inward, struck the head of the tibia, from which it glanced, and entered the