GUifSHOT WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. 49 Ounshot Wounds of the Liver, Spleen, and Gall-Bladder.—Wounds of the liver are oftener followed by recovery than is generally supposed. The great fatality of wounds of the spleen must be confessed, and, in presence of gunshot perforations of the gall-bladder, we may admit, with M. Legouest, that the surgeon must lay down his arms. Yet of the cases of gunshot wounds of the liver here recorded, four had a successful issue, and one of these that Dr. Patzki has reported, though not in detail, was a recovery from a wound of the gall-bladder. CLVI.—Abstract of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Liver, treated at the Post Hospital, Cape Dis- appointment, Washington Territory. By W. E. Whitehead, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Francis H. Y s, a citizen, aged 22 years, was ■wounded by a slug from a pistol, on June 3,18G7. The missile was shot from behind, and entered about four inches from a line drawn from the nipple of the right side to the superior spinous process of the ilium, and about six inches from the right nipple, below and posterior to the nipple. The slug was removed by an incision through the skin, at a point two and a half inches from the median line, and three and a half inches below the left nipple. At the time of injury he bled very freely from the wound of entrance, continuing to lose blood and bile till daylight next morning, when the htemorrhage ceased, bnt the flow of bile con- tinued. When seen on June 4th, the patient was quite feeble from loss of blood ; his respiration was rapid, with slight spasm of the diaphragm; pulse small and frequent, and 120; tongue coated; skm of a yellowish tinge, and the extremities cold. On June 7th, he was sent a distance of fifteen miles in a boat, and was admitted into the hospital of the post. Upon admission, he was some- what excited and fatigued; there was pain and tenderness of the abdomen, the contents of the stomach with bile were persistently vomited, and serum passed freely from the wound. An anodyne was prescribed; the wound was dressed with dry lint, and the patient was kept cool and quiet. June 8th, patient more quiet; bowels constipated; urine high-colored. The anodyne was continued every three hours; two grains of calomel with four grains of Dover's powder were given morning and evening, and a light but nutritious diet was allowed. By June 10th, there was con- siderable improvement, but there occurred from the wound a discharge of blood-clots, bile, and serum. Slight ptyalism taking place on the 11th, the calomel was reduced to three-fourths of a grain, and the Dover's powder to five grains, which was directed to be taken daily at bed-time. The patient's fseces were clay-colored; his countenance was of an icteroid hue. After his gums were touched, there was an increased discharge of bile from the wound. By June 18th, imi)rovement hav- ing taken place, the mercurial was stopped, but the solution of morphia was continued. The patient had so far improved by June 29th, as to be able to sit up several hours daily, and on July 4th was able to walk in the open air once or twice a day. On July 15th, when the patient left the hospital for a farm-house by the sea-shore, the wound was healthy, and discharged less than an ounce and a half during the twenty-four hours. The discharge consisted of free bile, also bile mixed with thick purulent matter. When last heard from, July 27, 1867, the patient was imi)roving finely in flesh and strength. The discharge from the wound was about the same in quantity and quality.—See A. M. M. Photographic Series, Nos. 39 and 40 of Surgical Card Photographs, vol. 2, p. 39. OLYII.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Liver, terminating in Recovery. By J. Cooper MoKee, Surgeon, U. S. A, Commissary Sergeant Edward Zimmer, 37th United States Infantry, aged 36 years, was wounded at Santa Fe, New Mexico, in a drunken brawl, on March 8, 18GS, by a conoidal ball from a Colt's revolver, which entered the centre of the right hypochondriac region three inches from the cartilages of the ribs, and four and one-half inches from, and on the line with, the lower edge of the sternum, between the eighth and ninth ribs, passed through the liver and intermediate interposing tissues, and emerged between the seventh and eighth ribs on the left side, four inches from the interior edge of the sternum in the left hypochondriac region. He was admitted to the post hos- 7