AMPUTATIONS OF THE LEG. 201 malleolus of the left leg; passed inward, downward, and forward tbrough the limb, and extensively comnjiuuted the tibia, and divided the anterior tibial artery. He was admitted the same day to the post hospital. Fort Ripley, Minnesota. There was constant and profuse haemorrhage, which was controlled only by the tourniquet. On the next day I admin- istered ether, and amputated the leg, by the double flap method. The patient recovered, and was dis- charged July 12, 1870. The pathological specimen, with the history, was contributed to the Arnjy Medical Museum, by the operator, and is represented Fig. 40.- -G-unslioti fracture of tlie lowet tbird of the left tibia. Spec. 5674, Sect. I, A. M. M. in the adjoining wood-cut. The man is a pensioner at $15 per month. DLXXIV.—Memorandum Relative to an Ampntation of Both Legs for Frost-BUe. By D. E. Holmes, Acting Assistant Surgeon. Private Frederick Silverhorn, Troop F, 8th Cavalry, aged 21 years, while on duty with his team ten miles from Camp Logan, Oregon, December 28, 1807, was frost-bitten in both fee£ and hands, and was admitted to the hospital of the post the same day. On January 1, 1808, both legs being considerably oedematous, and the feet black and mortified as far as the ankles, I administered ether and chloroform, and amputated both legs four inches above the ankles, the right by the circular method and the left by the flap. The flaps at first appeared to close up rapidly, but afterward opened, slightly sloughed at the margin, and liealed from the bottom by granulation. Both stumiis had healed by the end of the month. The hands were restored after a few days' treatment. He was discharged the service March 23, 1808, and was pensioned at $20 i)er month. DLXXV.—Note relative to an Amputation of the Leg for a Sprain. By H. MoL. Cronkhite, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Albert Smith, Co. E, 20th Infantry, aged 23 years, sprained his right foot, while on drill, on Ai)ril 28, 1808, and on the next day was admitted to the post hospital, Ringgold Barracks, Texas. Caries, involving all the tarsal bones, resulted. By the 14th of Xovember, 1808, the ankle had been for a long time much swelled and very painful, and there was a fistula which discharged freely. The patient was debilitated from long sufl'ering and profuse suppuration. On the latter date, I administered chloroform and performed an autero-posterior flap amputation of the leg, four inches above the ankle-joint. The wound was closed by ligatures and adhesive straps. On the 31st of December the wound had healed, and his general health was good. He was discharged the service May 27, 1809, and draws a pension of $15 per month. DLXXVI.—l^ote on an Amputation of Leg for Frost-Bite. From a Report from the Penson Ofiice. John Spyri, Troop C, 2d Cavalry, was frost-bitten, while on escort duty between Forts Reno and Kearney, Dakota Territory , in the latter part of January, 1807. Half of the left foot was removed at the time, but the case ijroving unsuccessful, amputation of the lower third of the leg, by the circular method, was performed May 5, 1807. He was discharged August 20, 1808. A year and seven months after he was examined for an artificial limb, at Avhich time the stumi) was perfectly healed. He is a pensioner at $15 per month. DLXXVII.—Note on an Amputation of the Leg for Gunshot Injury. By J. B. Giraed, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Corporal James K. Thomas, Troop A, 2d Cavalry, aged 21 years, was accidentally wounded, while scouting after Indians, the ball entering near the middle of the calf of the right leg, and escaping under the malleolus. He was admitted, on April 10, 1870, to the post hospital at Fort 20