GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. 41 wounded the left lobe of the liver, and extensively lacerated the spleen, and escaped from the body two and a half inches below, and one inch behind the left nipple, brealiing the seventh and eighth ribs. He died in a few minutes after being shot. The contents of the thorax, abdomen, and cra- nium were examined and found in a normal condition, except as regarded the traumatic lesions. CXX.—Report of a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Thorax and Abdomen. By W. E. Steinbeetz, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Jackson Tolliver, Co. E, 24th United States Infantry, aged 21 years, received on Janu- ary 23, 1870, at Fort Griffin, Texas, two gunshot wounds. One was an inch below and a quarter of an inch external to the inferior angle of the right scapuhi; the other in the posterior part of the middle third of the right leg. The patient was admitted to the post hospital, and one missile was extracted from near the ensiforin cartilage, and another from the muscles of the inner portion of the calf. The patient recovered from shock four hours after reception of injury, and seemed to be doing well until half i^ast 11 at night, wlieu internal htemorrhage occurred, and death ensued shortly afterward. At the autopsy, the thoracic cavity was found to contain about one and a half pints of blood. After penetrating the diaphragm, the ball had pierced the upper part of the right lobe of the liver, and, taking an upward course, had buried itself under the skin, near the ensiforra cartilage; the lower edge of the seventh rib was fractured, and the lower part of the inferior lobe of the right lung was perforated. CXXI.—An Account of a N'ecropsy after a Gunshot Wound of the Liver. By W. S. Buchanan, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Private Charles Allen, Co. E, 38th United States Colored Infantry, aged 21 years, was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Hays, Kansas, on December 21, 1867, with a gunshot wound of the abdomen, and died in a few minutes. An autopsy was made nine hours after death. The missile, supposed to be a pistol ball, penetrated the abdominal cavity immediately below the seventh costal cartilage and two inches to the left of the mesial line, entered the left lobe of the liver, traversed that organ nearly its whole length, through the left lobe, crossing the longitudinal fissure, reentering the under surface of the right lobe, and emerged at its superior surface and near its right extremity; thence it passed through the diaphragm into the right pleural cavity and passed out at the tenth rib, which was completely fractured in its middle. Sixty-four ounces of blood were found in the right pleural cavity, which had passed from the abdomen through the aperture in the diaj)hragm. About twenty ounces of blood were found in the abdominal cavity. CXXII.—Case of Gunshot Wound of the Liver, Spleen, and Diaphragm. By J. E. Smith, Surgeon, U. S. A, Private Eichard Sledge, reassigned, 38th United States Infantry, was shot by the sentinel at Jefferson Barracks, Missouri, on the 3d instant, while endeavoring to escape from the guard. The ball entered the body posteriorly, just above the edge of the left ilium, and midway the crest; entered the abdominal cavity, ranging upward and forward, passed through the spleen and the diaphragm, wounding the liver; and then passed out anteriorly', near the left nipx)le, fracturing the sixth rib. The man lived fifty hours after receiving the wound. CXXIII.—Pistol-shot Wound implicating both the Thoracic and Abdominal Cavities. By J. F.Weeds, Surgeon, U. S, A. In October, 1869, at Nashville, Tennessee, Private Frank Gibhart, Co. D, 14th United States Infantry, was accidentally shot bj- the officer of the day, while the latter was supi)ressing a dis- turbance among the prisoners in the guard-house. The deceased was one of the guard. The bullet (a conical ball fired from a 5-inch Smith & Wesson's pistol) entered the back two and a half inches to the left of the fourth dorsal vertebra and lodged the same distance to the riglit of the xiphoid cartilage, passing through the superior portion of the right lobe of the liver, the dia- X)hragm, and opening the right pleural cavity. He died in a few minutes. 6