99 The skin is very loosely connected to the parts below: it abounds with sebaceous glands : the praeputium : the frenu- lum penis. The suspensory ligament of the penis. The Urethra, extends from the neck of the bladder to the extremity of the glans penis : it is a continuous canal, of which the external structure is different in different portions. The posterior portion extends from the neck of the bladder a few lines beyond the prostate, by which it is almost entirely surrounded. This portion is surrounded by a stratum of muscular fibres, which proceed obliquely forward to be inserted into the accelerator urina*, and ossa pubis, and back- ward into the neck of the bladder. This is called the muscu- lar and membranous portion of the urethra. Vid. Cuvier. Anat. Comp. Vol. IV. p. 472. The remainder of the urethra is called the spongy portion ; from the structure which surrounds the canal. This vascu- lar, or cellular, structure begins by an oval swelling, called the bulb of the urethra: from whence it extends throughout the whole remainder of the urethra, and at its fore part expands into the glans penis. The Corona glandis : its ex- ternal covering, continuous with the skin of the penis, and with the mucous membrane of the urethra, of a nature inter- mediate to both : its mucous and sebaceous glands. The inner membrane of the canal belongs to the mucous system. It is red near the orifice of the canal and provided with numerous follicles : in the rest of its extent it is pale. The inner surface of the canal does not present the same breadth throughout. It is dilated near the bladder : narrow where the urethra passes the prostate. The spongy portion dilates near the base of the glans penis: the dilatation is called by Morgagni fossa navicularis. In this fossa the mucous glands abound. The Crest of the Urethra, or Veru montanum, is a projection, about an inch in length, continuous with the uvula vesicse. It is formed by the mucous mem- brane. On its sides are situated the orifices of the vasa defe-