JOG rentia, and ot the ducts of the prostate gland. In front of these, and in the bulbous portion, are the orifices of Cowper’s Glands. Externally, is a membrane of condensed cellular tissue: thin in the membranous portion, and sensibly thicker on the bulb and spongy portion. The Corpora Cavernosa, form nearly two-thirds of the bulk of the penis : they extend from the anterior and inner part of the tuberosity of the ischium to the gland. The two crura of the corpora cavernosa arriving in front of the sym- physis are united, and rest upon the upper surface of the urethra. Their anterior extremity is received into the hollow base of the glans penis. To their upper surface the suspensory ligament of the penis is affixed. This surface also presents a furrow for the reception of the arteria dorsalis penis and vein. Its inferior surface is furrowed for the reception of the spongy portion of the urethra, which is connected to it by cellular membrane. Structure. The cavernous body is composed of an ex- ternal fibrous membrane, of variable thickness, extensible and contractile : it presents on its fore part numerous pores for vessels which communicate with those of the gland. This membrane sends.a production, in the median plane, which serves as an imperfect division of the cavernous body into two portions. A spongy tissue fills the cavity of this membrane: it is composed of filaments from the fibrous membrane, of arteries, and of veins surpassing the arteries in number and magnitude. These vessels do not appear to communicate with those of the urethra. The muscles of the penis : vid. p. 19- The prostate gland is of a conical shape; it invests the anterior part of the neck of the bladder, and posterior part of the urethra. It is also traversed by the vasa deferentia. It appears to be formed of cellular tissue and of mucous follicles. Its two lobes. The ducts, from eight to twelve, open on the sides of the crest of the urethra. Coupee's glands: these are a collection of mucous glands situated behind the bulb of the urethra, in front of the pros-