89 Structure of the Ceri um and Colon. Three coats, generally similar to those of the small intestines. The peritoneum gives origin to many fatty appendages, which abound more in the lumbar than in the transverse or iliac portions of the intestine. They are called appendices epiphicae. The lon- gitudinal fibres of the muscular coat are. collected into three bands, two anterior and one posterior. These bands are much shorter than the intestine itself, from which circum- stance it assumes a sacculated, or embossed, appearance. The mucous coat abounds with glands, the villi are not very apparent,—the valvula; conniventes wanting. The Appendix vermiformis of the caecum; the ileo-ccecal valve. Structure of the Rectum. The anterior and superior part is covered by peritoneum:—the inferior third has no serous covering, but corresponds, in man, to the posterior and infe- rior surface of the bladder, the vesicula? seminales, prostate, and membranous portion of the urethra. In the female, the lower portion, which is not covered by peritoneum, adheres immediately to the vagina. The posterior surface of the rec- tum throughout has no peritoneal covering.—The muscular coat is very strong, the longitudinal fibres surround the whole of the intestine:—the lower circular fibres form a muscular ring called sphincter internus. The arteries of the two upper portions of the large intestine are from the superior and inferior mesenteric:—the veins belong to the portal system: the nerves from the superior and inferior mesenteric plexus. The arteries of the rectum are the haemorrhoidales, interna, media1, and externa1, from the inferior mesenteric and hypo-gastric arteries. The inter- nal h.Tmorrhoidal vein belongs to the portal system :—the others to the hypo-gastric veins. The nerves of the rectum at the upper part are from the ganglia: at the lower part the muscles are supplied from the sacral nerves. 8. The Liver. Its magnitude : it occupies nearly the whole of the right hypochondriac, and part of the epigastric, region. Its connections and relations with the neigh- bouring parts. The weight of the liver varies from two