pancreas, and is spread upon the small lobe of the liver as far as the posterior edge of its transverse fissure. From this description it appears that the great omentum consists, at its inferior portion, of four laminae of peritoneum. In the female, the peritoneum passes from the posterior sur- face of the bladder to the uterus, which it entirely invests, and from the posterior surface of which it is reflected upon the rectum. The broad ligaments of the uterus are two tri- angular folds broader above than below, which extend from the superior angles and edges of the uterus into the iliac fossae. Their base presents three secondary folds : the anterior covers a vascular cord, called the round ligament of the uterus, which passes to the abdominal ring, the middle fold affords a covering to the Fallopian tube, the posterior covers the ovary and its ligament. Vid. Marjolin, Manuel d’ Anatomie. II. 36l—578. The Stomach. The oesophagus expands into the sto- mach. Its shape; its two curvatures, the lesser concave, the greater convex. The superior orifice the cardia, the inferior orifice the pylorus. Situation of the stomach : in the epigastric region, and left hypochondrium; it extends also into the right hypochondrium, where it terminates in the duodenum. Its largest transverse section is in the left hypochondrium, its smallest in the right. Its left extremity is connected by omentum to the spleen : the left lobe of the liver covers its right extremity. Behind it, are the pancreas, the renal capsules, the aorta: below it the transverse arch of the colon. The two orifices are nearly fixed : the great curvature possesses the greatest mobility. Structure. Besides a muscular and mucous coat, it has externally a serous covering from the peritoneum. The serous coat is very smooth and lubricous externally : its inner sur- face is connected to the muscular coat by cellular substance. In the neighbourhood of the two curvatures there is a space left where the serous coat is not connected to the muscular.