95 rior region is sometimes called the vertex: it is in con- tact with the convolutions of the small intestines, and connected to the umbilicus by the L rachus. The inferior region is bounded below by the prostate gland, and behind by the fold which the peritoneum forms in passing from the bladder to the rectum: the most deep seated portion of this region is generally called the fundus of the bladder. In the male it rests upon the rectum and vesiculae seminales ; in the female on the vagina. The fundus is contracted into the neck of the bladder, which is continued into the urethra. Structure. The serous covering of the bladder is only partial. On the anterior region, on the anterior portions of the lateral and vertical regions, and on the inferior region, it is deficient.—The muscular eoat consists of whitish bands disposed in different directions. These are more closely collected together near the neck of the bladder. Here also the more internal fibres assume a circular disposition, and are called sphincter visicce. Cellular membrane connects the muscular fibres with each other, and with the internal, or mucous membrane of the bladder.—The mucous membrane is continuous with that of the urethra, and of the ureters. It is not thick: its villi very delicate. The mucous follicles are small but abundant. The inner surface, in the un- distended state, presents numerous plica;: and, in some sub- jects, projecting permanent columns, which cross in all direc- tions, and leave intermediate cellular spaces. This appear- ance is due to the peculiar disposition of the muscular coat. On the inner surface are also observable, the trigonum vesica;, the uvula vesica;, the orifices of the ureters, the orifice at the neck of the bladder. The arteries of the bladder, are from the hypo-gastric, ischiatic, haimorrboidalis media, pudica interna. The veins form a net-work near the fundus and neck, and terminate in the bypo-gastric veins. The nerves are from the hypo- gastric plexus : and third and fourth sacral nerves.