90 lo five pounds. Its specific gravity is to that of water as 15.2 : 10. The superior convex surface of the liver is divided by the suspensory fold of peritoneum into two lobes unequal in size: the right, or large lobe, the left, or middle lobe. On the inferior concave surface are ; the horizontal fissure for the umbilical vein : the transverse fissure for the vena portae, the hepatic artery, the hepatic duct, with lymphatics and nerves, surrounded by the capsule of Glisson: the fissure of the vena cava : the small lobe, or, Lobulus Spigelii behind the transverse fissure : the gall-bladder and fossa in which it is con- tained. Structure. The external serous coat:—it is deficient where the liver adheres to the diaphragm : at the places of inser- tion of the suspensory and lateral ligaments: and at the bottom of the different fissures. Beneath the serous mem- brane is another, of much greater extent, which adheres to it: covers the whole external surface of the liver, and is produced into its substance : forming the cellular sheaths which accompany the subdivisions of the different vessels. The substance of the liver is composed of acini. These are supposed to consist of the minute terminations of the blood- vessels, and origins of the biliary tubes, connected by the delicate cellular membrane which has been mentioned. The blood-vessels are, the hepatic artery: the vena porta;: the hepatic veins. Between the ultimate branches of these different orders of vessels there appears to be direct anasto- mosis. The nerves are from the cacliac plexus. The biliary tubes, at length coalesce to form two or three trunks, which, emerging from the lobes of the liver, unite at an obtuse angle to form the hepatic duct. This duct proceeds in front, and to the right, of the hepatic artery, and below the vena ports : it receives the cystic duct, from the gall-bladder and the two form the ductus communis choledochus, which perforates the duodenum obliquely :— between the mus- cular and mucous coat of the intestine, it is joined by the pancreatic duct, and proceeding about an inch penetrates the