88 Structure of the small intestines. There is a serous, a muscular, and a mucous coat in all. The serous coat allows of different degrees of mobility in the different portions of the canal.—The muscular coat consists of two strata of fibres : the external longitudinal, few in number: the external annu- lar, and decussatiug in different directions.—The mucous coat, thinner than that of the stomach, abounding in blood-vessels and absorbents and furnished with very numerous mucous glands, presents loose folds called valvulce conniientes. These project transversely from the circumference into the cavity of the intestine: are dependant upon structure, and conse- quently can not be obliterated by distending the caual. They begin about an inch from the pylorus. The Villi. The nerves of the small intestines are from the coeliac and mesenteric plexus. The arteries of the duodenum are from the hepatic and superior mesenteric: of the jejunum and ilion, from the superior mesenteric. The veins belong to the portal system : they have no valves. The absorbents of the small intestines, from the appear- ance of the fluid which they convey, are called lacteals. They abound in the duodenum, their number is diminished towards the lower part of the small intestine. They have the same structure as the other absorbents—pass through numerous glands between the folds of the mesentery, and at length terminate in the thoracic duct. 7. The large intestine consists of three portions, the Cecum, Colon, and Rectum. The caecum lies in the right iliac fossa: the colon rises from that fossa to the right hypochondriac region, passes transversely into the left hvpochondriac region, descends in the left lumbar re- gion, forms a double curve, or sigmoid flexure, in the left iliac fossa, and terminates in the rectum near the base of the sacrum. The rectum occupies the posterior part of the pelvis, and terminates in the Jnus. The length of the large intestine bears to that of the small the proportion of 1 : 5.