93 2. The kidneys are not constant in number. There are generally two. Their situation is in the lumbar regions, on the sides of the spine and behind the peritoneum, between the eleventh dorsal and fifth lumbar vertebrae. Thtir shape. Structure. The abundant fat which surrounds the kidney being removed, its external membrane is fibrous : thin, strong, and smooth externally. It allows a passage to the renal ves- sels, and sends many prolongations into the substance of the viscus to accompany them. This tunic being removed, the parenchyme of the kidney consists of an external, or cortical substance, and an internal, or tubular substance. The corti- cal substance appears to be composed of the minute subdivi- sions of the renal vessels, which, penetrating the gland by its fissure, approach its surface, and form arches concave towards that surface. From the convexity of these arches innumerable vessels proceed. The tubular substance is more pale; it pre- sents conical fasciculi, which are surrounded, except at the apex, by the cortical substance. The apices of these cones converge towards the fissure of the kidney. The cones con- sist of blood vessels and uriniferous tubes : the tubes being apparently continuous with the minute arteries, and proceeding in straight lines, which converge towards the fissure. The cones terminate by tubercular eminences called papt lice, on which the uriniferous tubes open. The Cahcex are membranous canals which embrace the papillae, and open into the pelvis of the kidney. They vary in number, from six to twelve or more:—one sometimes sur- rounding several papilla*. They coalesce to form three prin- cipal tubes before entering the pelvis. The Pelvis occupies the posterior part of the fissure, being covered in front by the renal artery and vein. It terminates below in the ureter. The Ureter is a membranous canal: cylindrical: extend- ing from the pelvis of the kidney to the urinary bladder. The two ureters arriving at the inferior and lateral regions