69 cellular membrane and loose fat, in which the vessels and nerves pass to the globe of the eye. 2. The palpebree, or eye-lids, bound the orbit in front. They begin from the ei/e-brows. The upper eye-lid is the larger of the two, extending, when the eye is closed, considerably below its transverse diameter. The free edge of each eye-lid is terminated by a fibro-cartilage, called the tarsus. From the tarsi project the cilia, or eye-lashes. Structure. Skin of much tenuity is separated by a delicate and loose cellular tissue, never containing fat, from the mus- cular layer composed of the fibres of the orbicularis palpe- brarum. The tarsi begin at the inner canthus, or angle, from the tendon of that muscle, and are continuous with each other at the external angle bv means of fibres which proceed from each. Each tarsus is bevelled on its inner edge in such a way that a channel is formed when the two are in juxta position. Beneath the muscular layer the eye-lids, particularly at the outer angle, are strengthened by fibrous threads which proceed from the tarsi. The upper eye-lid, in addition to these, has the expanded tendon of the levator palpebrae inserted into the tarsus and outer angle. Below all, is the mucous membrane, continuous with the skin of the eye-lids, called the conjunc- tiva. Reflected from their inner surface, it covers the ante- rior third of the globe of the eye : at the inner angle it presents a fold called caruncula tacrtmalis, and enters the puncta lacrymalia. Below the conjunctiva and behind each tarsus are the mucous glands, called Meibomian glands. 3. The lacrt/inal organs. The lacrymal gland is suspended by a peculiar ligament in its fossa of the frontal bone:— its lobules and acini are supplied with arteries and nerves from the ophthalmic. It has six or eight excre- tory ducts which open on the inner surface of the upper eye-lid towards the outer angle. The puncta lacrymalia, project near the inner extremity of each tarsus. From them proceeds the lacrymal canal of