1. The Vestibule is tlie central part of tire labyrinth, with which the two others communicate. It presents, the opening of the fenestra ovalis, covered by the base of the stapes: beneath this the opening of that portion of the cochlea called scala vestibuli and of the aqueduct of the vestibule : the five openings of the semicircular canals. 2. The semicircular canals are three in number. Of these, two are vertical and one horizontal. The two vertical have only three openings into the vestibule, one being common to a branch of each of these canals. The horizontal has two openings. 3. The cochlea. Its situation oblique, in front of the vestibule. Its base is placed inwards and backwards towards the meatus internus : its apex forwards, outwards and a little downwards. A hollow cone constituting the central pillar of the cochlea is called the modiolus : round it is a spiral cavity consisting of two and a half convolutions. But the modiolus and spiral do not terminate together. The modiolus ends with the second convolution, and the cavity is continued for half a convolution more. The hollow in the modiolus is the principal entrance for the filaments of the auditory nerve, to the inner ear. It is pierced throughout by numerous pores, through which filaments of the nerve are distributed to the spiral canal. At the apex of the modiolus the cavity is dilated into the infundibulum. The spiral cavity is divided in the direction of its length into two distinct portions, by a lamina composed of bone and membrane. These two portions communicate only ui the infundibulum. One of them is called the scala timpani, and corresponds at its base to the fenestra rotunda; the other the scala vestibuli, and opens by its base into the vestibule. These divisions of the cochlea are lined with a membrane, which receives vessels and nerves, and secretes as in the other parts of the labyrinth, a fluid called liquor Cotunmi. The aqueduct of the cochlea has its opening in the scala tympani, near the fenestra rotunda. The two aqueducts, of the vestibule and of the cochlea, open externally into veins of the dura mater.