87 Here the great vessels of the stomach are found.—The muscular coat is produced from that of the oesophagus, and is especially visible near the termination of that canal. The fibres follow three different directions. The external fibres are longitudinal, from the oesophagus, and extend from the cardia to the pylorus and duodenum: the next are obliquely transverse, the inner circular, both extending from one curvature to the other.—The internal mucous coat is a continuation of the mucous membrane of the oesophagus. It is abundantly supplied with exhalants, mucous crypta*, absorbents and nerves. The epidermis appears to terminate near the cardia. The villi. The gastric glands near the cardia. Numerous rugae are observable in the mucous coat, of which some depend upon structure, and others are due to the undistended state of the viscus. At tire cardia the circular fibres form a sort of ring called sphincter cardia:. At the pylorus the mucous membrane forms a circular thickening, or projection, called the valve oj the pylorus. Here also are circular muscular fibres. The cceliac trunk supplies the arteries of the stomach. The coronaria ventriculi sinistra is immediately from it. The hepatic artery gives off the coronaria dextra, and gastro-epiploica dextra, the splenic the gastro-epiploica sinis* tra. The veins belong to the portal system. The nerves form a network round the arteries: they are from the cceliac plexus and par vagum. Vid. Cuvier, III. 369- Sir E. Hume's Lectures, I. 143. C). The small intestines consist of three portions called Duodenum, Jejunum, llion. The length of the whole is about four times that of the body. The duodenum : its situation : its two flexures : the orifices of the common biliary duct, and of the pan- creatic duct. This portion passes into the jejunum when it has perforated the inferior lamina of the trans- verse meso-colon. Of the remainder of the small intes- tines the three superior fifths are called jejunum, the two inferior fifths ilion.