The choroid cout, lines the inner surface of the sclerotica, and adheres to it by cellular threads, particularly at the junction of the sclerotica and cornea. It extends from the optic nerve to a projecting ring which it forms at the anterior edge of the sclerotica, called the ciliary circle. It is not continuous with the pia mater of the nerve. Its posterior opening for the passage of the optic nerve: its anterior opening, to which the ciliary processes and iris are connected. The nature of this membrane is unknown, it is highly vascu- lar and abundantly supplied with nerves. It secretes a dark coloured fluid on its inner surface, called pigmentum nigrum. The pigmentum nigrum is supposed by some anatomists to be a peculiar retiform membrane formed principally by con- volutions of the minute ciliary vessels, and not a secretion. Vid. /inn. Descr. Anat. Oculi Illimani, Tab. I. fig. 1. and Mondini. Opuscoli Scieuti/ici della Socictu Bolognese. Vol. II. The Ciliary circle, an annular swelling where the choroid terminates anteriorly. It is a congeries of the ciliary vessels and nerves united by cellular membrane. The Corpus Ciliare—a membranous ring, with posterior plica*, extending in a vertical plane from the ciliary circle to- wards the axis of the eye. Processus ciliares, the name given to these plica*. Soem- mering has counted fifty-seven of them, others seventy. They are abundantly covered by pigmentum nigrum, and rest by their posterior margins on the vitreous humour, and the canal which surrounds the crystalline lens. Distribution of the ciliary arteries. The ciliary veins form about twelve trunks, called vasa vorticosa, which return their contents partly by the cerebral ophthalmic vein into the cavernous sinus, and partly by the facial ophthalmic vein into the internal facial vein. The Iris is a circular ring which hangs from the anterior part of the ciliary circle in a vertical plane towards the axis of the eye, and divides the eye in front of the crystalline lens into two chambers. It is supposed to differ in nature from the choroid; it appears to be composed of the infinite convolutions