16 Aromates, f. Vegetable herbs as used for flavouring. Aromatic herbs, such as thyme, bayleaves, tarragon, chervil, etc. Aromatiser, f. To flavour with spice or savoury herbs. Aromatic seasoning. Aromatic Seasoning. Epice culinaire, f. A special blend of various herbs and condiments. Aronde, f. Swallow. Pearl oyster. Arracacha, f. An esculent resembling the parsnip. Arroser, f. To baste with gravy, sauce, oil, butter or dripping. Arrowroot. Fegule de Marante, f. A tropical plant used for thickening sauces and other culinary preparations. It is said the Indians extracted a poison for their arrows from this root, hence the name. Artichauts (fonds d’), f. Artichoke bottoms. Artichoke. Artichaut, f. (See Jerusalem and Globe Artichoke.) Artois, f. Old county of France (Pas de Calais). Several dishes are called after this name. D’Artoise-feuilletage, pastry with jam ; also savouries. Arza. An Arabian brandy from mares’ milk. Asparagus. Asperges, f. An esculent plant, originally a wild sea-coast plant of Great Britain. In season from April till end of July. It grows abundantly in the temperate regions of both hemispheres, and is found in the tropics of gigantic size. Asparagine, f. A crystallised extract of asparagus. Aspic, f. Savoury jelly ; a l’aspic, or en aspic, set in aspic, or garnished with aspic jelly. Aspic is clarified stock fortified with meat or fish and vegetable flavourings, rendered gela- tinous with calf’s feet or gelatine. Used for cold entrees, for cold savouries, and for marking and garnishing. Aspiquer, f. A modern Parisian culinarism, meaning to put lemon-juice, or “ reduced vinegar,” into a jelly, a sauce or a gravy (Gouffe) ; the expression is therefore misleading ; the proper verb to use would be acidulating, to acidulate. Assaisonnement, f. Seasoning, condiment, sauce. Assai- sonner, f. To season, to mix. Assiette, f. A plate. Une assiette propre, a clean plate. A French term for hors d’oeuvre, which a plate is large enough to hold. In Scotland the term is used to denote a dish.