39 Cerise (la), f. Cherry. A small stone fruit of many varieties. Cherries were known in Asia as far back as the 14th century. Pliny states that Lucullus first brought this fruit to Italy about seventy years before the Christian Era, and records that the Romans afterwards introduced the cherry-tree into Great Britain. The name is derived from Kerasos (Cerasus), a town in Asia Minor. Cerneau, f. The kernel of a green walnut. Usually prepared in salt-water. A red wine is also made from these kernels, called vin de cerneaux, which is to be drunk in the walnut season. Cerneaux Confits, f. Preserved green walnuts. Cervelas, f. A kind of a thick and short smoked sausage made of pork, and seasoned with salt, pepper, and spices. Cervelle, f. Brain. A substance within the skull of an animal. Veal, lamb, pork, and beef brains are used in cookery. Chablis (Vin de Chablis). A famous French white wine, grown in and near Chablis, Burgundy. Chair, f. Flesh. Chair blanche—white meat. Chair noir— dark meat. Chair a saucisse—sausage meat. Chambord. The name of a French nobleman, an authority on oysters. Champagne. Fine champagne, cognac, or brandy. Sparkling wine of the Champagne district. Champignons, f. Mushrooms. A plant of the Fungi. Cham- pignon de prarie, f. Field mushroom. Chanterelle, f. A species of mushroom. Chapelure, f. Dried breadcrumbs passed through a sieve. Chapon. Capon ; also a piece of bread boiled in soups ; a crust of bread rubbed with garlic. Char. A fresh-water fish, mostly found in the English Lake district. It belongs to the same family as the salmon and trout, and has the same pink and oily flesh. Chareuterie, f. The word means roughly slashed ; but in a culinary sense it denotes “ pretty tiny kickshaws ” of pork, which are prepared in many different fashions. Black pudding, pig’s feet truffled, smoked pig’s ear with truffles, Nancy chitterlings, saveloy, pig’s liver, are all items of chareuterie. Charcutier, f. (from chair-cuite). A purveyor of cooked and dressed meats.