40 Charlotte, f. A corruption of the old English word Charlyt, which means a dish of custard. Charlotte Russe—Russian Charlotte, a cream encrusted with thin biscuits. Charlotte de Pomme—Apple Charlotte, consists of thin slices of bread, steeped in clarified butter ranged in symmetrical order in plain moulds and filled with apple puree, and baked. Chartreuse. Original meaning, various kinds of vegetables or fruit, dished up in the shape of goblets set in aspic or jelly. In its degenerate form, cooked game, small poultry, etc., are cooked and dressed in Chartreuse style, either hot or cold. In modern cookery also applied to fruit macedoine in jelly shape with cream in centre. Also name of a delicious but rather costly liqueur of a green or yellow colour. First distilled by the monks of Grande Chartreuse, near Grenoble, France; Chasselas. A kind of white raisin. Chataigne, f. Chestnut, e. Used for stuffing and sweet dishes. (See Chestnut.) Chateaubriand. Name of Viscount Francis Auguste, a great French gourmand, born in 1769, died 1848. A favourite dish of fillet steak is called after him. Chaudeau, f. A sweet sauce served with puddings, etc. Chaudfroid, f. Name given to dishes such as chicken, game, cutlets, etc., masked with cold sauce and served cold, usually garnished with savoury jelly and truffles. Chaussons. A kind of French round, flat, light pasties with jam. Cheese. Fromage, f. The curd of milk coagulated and pressed. As a food it possesses very distinct nutritive properties, and forms the principal nitrogenous food of many labouring people. Its principal element is caseine, which is the chemical equivalent of the white of egg, gluten of wheat, and the fibrin of meat. New cheese, although nutritious, is not easy of digestion. Old cheese is said to promote digestion. Cheesecake. Talmouse, f. A pastry ; tartlets of a very light and flaky crust, with a mixture of cheese-curd, or almond, etc., in the centre. Chef-de-Cuisine, f. Chief of the kitchen ; head cook. Chemise, f. Robe, jacket (of potato). Chemise. Lined (a mould with jelly, forcemeat, or paste).