144 a sauce with truffles or to season the interior of poultry or game with truffle-stuffing, such as capons, turkeys, and pheasants. Truite Saumonee, f. Salmon trout. Truitelle. Troutlet, a small trout. Tunny Fish. Is known in this country principally in its preserved form. (See Thon.) Turban. Ornamental entrees of chicken and forcemeat, dressed in the form of a turban ; a hair-dress worn in the East. Turban of Veal. A cold dish composed of cold cut-up fowl, slices of cold veal garnished with tongue and truffle, the whole arranged in the form of a turban. Turbit. A variety of the domestic pigeon. Turbot. Turbot, f. A highly esteemed flat sea-fish. The flesh of the turbot is firm, white, and delicate in flavour. It is one of the few that improve by keeping for a day or two. Our supply comes principally from the English coasts, and from a few places off the Dutch coast. The turbot of the Adriatic was held in great esteem by the Romans. Turbotin. Small turbot. Turbotiere. Turbot-kettle or pan in which turbot is cooked. Turkey. Dinde, f. A large species of domestic fowl. Though called “ turkey,” after the country of that name, it is really a native of North America. It was introduced into England in the reign of Henry VIII. Wild turkeys are still found in America, and their flesh has a finer flavour, although a deeper colour, than the domesticated bird. The flavour of a young bird of moderate size is better than that of a large one. The old birds may be known by the roughness and redness of their legs, which in the younger are black and smooth. Turmeric. Powdered turmeric root is the ingredient to which curry-powder owes its colour. Turmeric tubers yield a deep yellow powder of a resinous character. It is a principal ingredient in some Indian dishes. Turn. Tourner, f. To trim or pare vegetables into neat round or oval shapes. Turn-broche or Turnspit. Formerly joints while being roasted were turned by young persons or trained dogs ; now they are turned by clockwork previously wound up.