14 Appareils, f. Culinary term for prepared mixtures. Prepara- tions for an event. Appetissant, f. Appetising ; something to whet the appetite ; relishing. Appetissant, f. A hors d’oeuvre, consisting of stuffed Spanish olives, dressed on little croutes of fried bread. Appetit, f. Appetite. Brillat-Savarin gives the following most elaborate and graphic definition concerning appetite : “ Motion and life create in the living body a constant loss of substance, and the human body, which is a most complicated machinery, would soon be unfit for use if Providence did not provide it with a compensating balance, which marks the very moment when its powers are no longer in equiva- lence with its requirements.” The great Car erne, who was for a time chef to the Prince Regent in England, used to discuss matters of gastronomy daily with his royal master. One day the Prince said, “ Careme, you will make me die of indigestion, for I long to eat of everything you send to table ; everything is so tempting.” “ Sire,” answered Careme, “ my business is to provoke your appetite, it is not for me to regulate it.” Appetite denotes a desire to eat, and is announced in the stomach by a little weakness, combined at times with a little pain, and a slight sensation of lassitude. Meanwhile the mind is occupied with objects bearing upon its wants, whilst memory recalls such things as please the taste, or, in other words, imagination fancies it sees those things for which one longs ; the stomach becomes sensitive, the mouth becomes moistened, and all the digestive powers become ready for action. This is the feeling of one that is hungry, and to have an appetite one must be hungry. Apple. Pomme, f. Apfel, g. The original apple of this country is the crab, which is astringent and bitter. There are about three hundred kinds of apple now cultivated. Apple Fool. A puree of apples (apple pulp), flavoured with cinnamon, clove, and sugar, mixed with new milk or cream, served as cream liquid or half frozen in glass dishes or goblets. Apple Hedgehog. Name of a dish of stewed apples (whole), the centres of which are filled with jam, arranged in the form of a hedgehog, decorated with shreds of almonds, covered with icing sugar, and browned in the oven.