42 Chipolata. Small Italian sausages. Originally an Italian ragout. This name is also given to dishes which contain an addition of Italian sausages or a kind of mixed minced meat with which they are served. Chitterlings. Signifies mainly the boiled intestine or gut of ox, also of calf and pig ; and small tripe. The German for tripe is Kutten, Kaldaunen. Chitterlings also stands for sausages. Chives. Ciboulettes, f. A species of small green onion. Chocolate. Chocolat, f. The beans of the Theobroma cocoa- tree infused by process of manufacture, and made into paste, cake, or powder. The cpcoa-tree is a native of the West Indies and South America. The cocoa or cacao bean was held as a symbol of hospitality by the Siamese. In olden times it served as a current coin in Yucatan. Chocolate has been known as a favourite beverage as long as 400 years ago. Introduced into England in 1520 from Mexico, and sold in London coffee-houses in 1650. Chou, f. Cabbage. Chou blanc, f. ; white cabbage, e. Chou vert, f. ; green cabbage, e. Chou rouge, f. ; red cabbage, e. Chou farci, f. ; stuffed cabbage, e. Chou de Bruxelles, f. ; Brussels sprouts, e. Choux-fleur, f. Cauliflower. (See Cauliflower.) Choux-raves, f. Kohl-rabis. A turnip-rooted cabbage. Most excellent as a vegetable, but as yet very little known in this country. It is a favourite vegetable in the United States, Germany and Switzerland. Chow-chow. Name of a kind of pickle consisting of a combina- tion of various vegetables, such as cauliflower buds, button onions, gherkins, French beans, and tiny carrots. These are preserved in a kind of mustard sauce, seasoned with strongly- flavoured aromatic spices. Chowder. A dish of American origin. It consists of boiled pickled pork cut in slices, fried onions, slices of turbot or other fish, and mashed potatoes, all placed alternately in a stewpan, seasoned with spices and herbs, claret and ketchup, and simmered. Chrysanthemum. This is one of the latest plants added to the dietary list. Its taste is somewhat similar to that of cauli- flower, only much more delicate. If shredded finely and mixed with a cream sauce it makes a most delicious salad.