Prickly Pear. Also called Indian fig. It is a pleasant, whole- some, juicy fruit, imparting a peculiar cool sensation to the palate, and it is highly esteemed in the tropical countries where it grows. Primeur, f. This always implies edibles forced in order to be enjoyed out of their otherwise usual season. Strawberries, young carrots, onions, parsnips, and other vegetables obtained by hastening their growth, under glass or by any other means, are generally classed under that name. Printemps, f. Spring. Printanier{ere). Wherever this name is applied it always implies that a collection of early spring vegetables, left whole or cut small, is given, either as a garnish or in the form of macedoine. It is mostly used in connection with clear soups, removes, and some ragouts. Profiteroles. A kind of light cake, baked in hot ashes, filled with cream. Provencale (a la), f. A surname given to certain French dishes, which generally implies that garlic or onion and olive oil have been used in its preparation. Prune, f. Plum. Name given to fresh and preserved fruit of the plum-tree. Prunes. This name, derived from the French, is given to preserved plums. Prunes de reine claude. Greengage plum. Pruneau. Dried plum. Prunelle. Sloe ; wild plum. Ptarmigan. White grouse, or ptarmigan, are fond of high places, and are found even as far north as Greenland. Those seen in our markets come mostly from Norwray and Scotland. They feed on the wild herbage of the hills, and this in a measure accounts for the slightly bitter, though not un- pleasant, taste of the flesh. Ptomaines. Name applied to certain poisonous principles found in decayed or tainted food which cause food-poisoning. Scientific authorities inform us the danger consists in the shape of germs, which have attacked or are bred in the food. Puits d’Amour, f. French pastry made of puff paste. Pulled Bread. Term applied to small pieces of bread; the crumb part of a loaf is pulled into pieces while hot, and baked in a moderate oven until they become crisp. Pullet. Poulet, f. A young hen or female fowl. n 7