38 Cauliflower. Chou-fleur, F. A delicate and highly-prized vege- table of the cabbage family. In season June to November. Caviar, f. Caviare. The salted roe of sturgeon or sterlet (fish eggs). Caviare contains twice the nutriment of almost all meats, and is almost equal to pork, which contains the highest amount of nutritive elements of any meat. The sterlet is a species of sturgeon not more than two or three feet in length, but possessing very large ova. Cayenne Pepper. Poivre de Guinee, or piment de Guinee, f. An extremely pungent, aromatic condiment ; it consists of the ground seeds of a species of capsicum of a red colour. It is also imported in pods known as chillies. A similar kind of condiment is known as Guinea pepper, which grows in East India, and is even more pungent than the former. Both are grown in England, and are used for pickles, etc. Cecils. An old-fashioned variety of meat ball, flavoured with anchovies and lemon peel Cedrat, f. A kind of citron-tree ; its fruit is used for cakes, puddings, and ice-creams, and a special kind of oil is also prepared from this fruit. Celeriac. A species of the celery plant. A turnip-rooted celery, of which the bulb only is used ; usually served as a vegetable, stewed in broth. Celery. Celeri, f. A salad plant, eaten raw or dressed as salad. Cooked, it is served in various ways as a vegetable or in soups. Celestin. A monk so named after Pope Celestin. A la Celestin e, f., from the Latin coelestis (heavenly). Several dishes are called after this name. Cendre (la), f. Ashes or embers. Cuit sous le cendre, cooked under the ashes. Cepe, f. (Esculent boletus), an edible mushroom of yellowish colour, having an agreeable and nutty flavour, largely cultivated at Bordeaux. Cereelle or Sareelle, f. Teal. A small waterfowl allied to the duck. Cerf, f. Deer, stag, hart. Quadruped kept for venison. Cerfeuil, f. Chervil. An aromatic garden herb plant, the leaves of which form an excellent adjunct to salads, soups, sauces, etc. Its flavour resembles a mixture of fennel and parsley. The root of this herb is poisonous.