107 Parson’s Nose. This name is given to the extreme end portion of the tail of a fowl. This, and the oyster of a fowl, constitute the French sot-l'y-laisse. Partridge. Perdreau, or Perdrix, f. Some variety of this bird is found nearly all over the world. The English bird has a finer flavour than the French partridge, the latter being known by the redness of its legs. Passer. A word much used in cookery. To pass a sauce, soup, vegetable or meat, means to run it through a tammy cloth, sieve, or strainer. In the culinary language, the word “passer” has also the same meaning as “ faire revenir,” i.e., to slightly fry in butter over a quick fire so as to form a crusty surface on meats or vegetables which are intended to be finished by some other process of cooking (usually stewing or braising). Passoire. Colander; strainer. Pasteque. A water-melon. Pastillage, f. Gum paste, for ornamental confectionery, etc. Pate, f. Paste. Pate a foire. Frying batter Pate d’Amande. Almond paste. Pate de Anchois, Anchovy paste, etc. Pate, f. A pie ; pasty; a savoury meat pasty, or a raised pie. Pate, f. Paste; dough. Pate croquante, f. Crisp almond and sugar paste. Pate feuilletee, f. Puff paste. Pate frisee, f. Short paste. Pate pastillage. Gum paste. Pate de Foie Gras, f. A well-known delicacy prepared from the livers of fat geese. Alsace is the most celebrated country where the so-called pates and terrines de foie gras are made. This delicacy was first introduced by a cook named Close. Pate de Perigord. Name of a French pie, which derives its name from Perigueux, a place celebrated for its truffles. Patience. A vegetable similar to spinach. It has a specially mild flavour, with a slight acidity like sorrel leaves. Patisser, f. To make pastry. Patisserie. Pastry; a pastry- cook's business. The word is also applied to a paste made of flour, salt, fat, and water, used to cover pies, etc. Also means all kinds of fancy tartlets. Patissier. Pastrycook. Patisson, f. A kind of squash. Pattes d’Ours, f. Bear’s paws. Paupiettes, f. Slices of meat rolled with forcemeat.