108 Pavot, F. Poppy. The seeds of this plant are used in stuffing mixtures and cakes. Paysanne (a la), f. Peasant’s fashion. Prepared in a homely way. Pea. Pois, f. The pea is, perhaps, the oldest known vegetable. It existed in pre-historic times, peas having been found in the Swiss lake dwellings of the Bronze period. The three principal kinds of pea are the common field pea, the garden pea, and the sugar pea (see Sugar Pea). There is a Russian variety, which is sent dried into this country. Peach. Peches, f. There are two kinds of peaches, the cling- stone (or firm-fleshed) peaches, and the melters, which are as soft and juicy as the mellowest apricot. Peaches grow in great abundance in the Channel Islands. The best in the English markets are those “ forced ” by Kentish nursery- men. The peach-tree was originally introduced by the Romans into Italy, from Persia, hence its name “ Persica,” which was ultimately corrupted to Peche. Peacock. Paon, f. The peacock is a fowl of the pheasant kind. The latest instance of peacock eating on record was at a dinner given by the Governor of Grenada to the Duke of Clarence, afterwards King William IV. Pear. Poire, f. This fruit is divided into three classes, namely, dessert pears, pears for making perry, stewing pears. The pear-tree was cultivated by the early Greeks and Romans. Peche, f. Peach. A delicious juicy fruit. (See Peach.) Pemmican. Thoroughly-dried lean meat, powdered and mixed with melted fat or suet ; currants and sugar are sometimes added. An article of food largely employed by all hunting animals for their skins in North America. Penguin. A genus of sea-fowls of Arctic regions. Penguin eggs. Very large eggs imported from the western coast of the Cape Colony. These eggs are somewhat similar in texture and flavour to plovers’ eggs. Pepper. Poivre, f. Both white and black pepper are procured from the seed of a small shrub which grows in various parts of India. The sole difference between the two is that in white pepper the outer husk of the seed is removed. As that can only be done with the best kinds, it forms an additional security that the pepper is good. Pepper was known to