49 D Courge, f. Squash; vegetable marrow. Courgeon, f. Ordinary vegetable marrow. Couronne, f. Crown. “ En Couronne,” to dish up in the form of a crown. Court-bouillon, f. Name given to a broth in which fish has been boiled ; a highly-seasoned fish stock and stew. Cow-heel. A great many invalid dishes are prepared from the feet of the ox or cow, as they are extremely nutritious. Crab. Crabe, f. A member of the shell-fish tribe. Once a year, the crab, retiring to a hiding-place among the rocks, performs the feat of changing its shell. Crackers are very hard biscuits ; when Soaked used for pies, or when crumbled for making into pudding. Cracknels. Biscuits made of paste which is boiled before it is baked. The biscuits, when boiled, curl up. After boiling, they are put into cold water to harden, dried, and finally baked. Cranberry. Airelle rouge, f. This fruit grows in a cold climate, and on peaty bogs. In Siberia they are used to manufacture wine. They are chiefly imported from Russia and North America, although large quantities may be collected in a few parts of Britain and of Germany. Crapaudine, f. A grating gridiron; hence “ mettre a la crapaudine,” to grill, e.g., pigeons or fowls, usually done “ split ” in spatchcock fashion. Craquelins, f. Cracknels. A kind of milk biscuits. Crawfish. Langouste, f. The crawfish inhabits the sea, and although somewhat like the lobster, only much larger, and closely resembling the crayfish, it can be distinguished from them. Crayfish. Ecrevisses, f. The crayfish live entirely in fresh water, and are like a miniature lobster. They were much esteemed by the ancient Greeks and Romans, and are now considered a great delicacy. Crecy (Potage a la), f. Crecy or carrot soup. A vegetable puree, said to have been invented by Baron Brisse. Dishes named “ a la Crecy ” generally contain carrots in the form of a puree. Creme, f. Cream. The fatty or oily part of milk. Used in butter and cheese making, as well as in the preparation of numerous sauces, soups, custards, puddings, pastry, and