96 Lait. f, (See Lait.) Millecantons, f. Name of a small fish of the whitebait kind, found in the Lake of Geneva ; cooked in the same manner as whitebait. In season in July and August. Millefeuille, f. Thousand leaves. Milfoil, a cake made of several layers of puff paste, one on top of the other, interlaid with jam, etc. Millet. A plant and its grain ; indigenous to tropical countries ; there are several varieties, of which India provides the best. The flower is white and is much used for cakes, puddings, etc. Mince-meat. Meat chopped very fine. This name is also given to a mixture consisting of finely-minced suet and raisins, sugar, currants, spices, sometimes cooked meat, and brandy. Used for a favourite kind of pastry known as mince-pies. Mince-pies. Small patties filled with mince-meat. This is a traditional English Christmas pie. Minestra. An Italian vegetable soup with rice and cheese. Minnow. A very small fresh-water fish. Mint. Menthe, f. A small aromatic plant believed to be indigenous to Great Britain, where it has been known since Saxon times. Mint Julep. Name of an American drink. Minute, a la, f. A surname given to dishes which are hurriedly prepared ; or anything cooked in the quickest possible style. Omelets and grills come under this heading. Mirabeau, f. A French revolutionist, son of the Marquis de Mirabeau. A rich sauce, and a few dishes, whose garnish includes anchovies and olives, are named after him. Mirabelles, f. A kind of small yellow plum, very sweet and juicy, used for compotes, fresh or dried. Mirepoix, f. The foundation preparation of vegetables, herbs, and lard, for brown soups and sauces ; also for braised meats, etc. Name derived from the Duke de Mirepoix. Mirlitons, f. A kind of French pastry. Tartlets with a basis of puff-paste and filled with a custard mixture. Miroton, f. Thin slices of meat, the size of a five-shilling-piece, braised, stewed, and dished up in a circular form. Mirtilles, f. Blueberries Mitonner, f. To steep and allow to boil during a certain time.