134 SHng. A drink made of rum and water, sweetened. Sloe. Prunelle, f. The fruit of the blackthorn. Smelt. Eperlans, f. A most delicious little fish, its principal characteristic being the cucumber smell, which is most pronounced. The only legitimate way of cooking this fish is frying in deep fat. Usually served with lemon and thinly cut slices of brown bread and butter. Snail (Edible). Escargot, f. Not much eaten in England, but in France it is considered a delicacy. The Romans esteemed it highly also. Snipe. Becasse, f. A small marsh bird whose flesh has a delicate flavour. Snipe are not natives of Britain. They mostly come over at the beginning of winter, and take their flight again in the spring, then passing towards Lapland, Poland, Russia, Iceland, and Sweden. In cold climates they grow very fat, but in warm countries they become positively slender and thin. Socle, f. Base. Pedestal. Used in cookerjr and confectionery. Made of rice, fat, sugar, etc. Soja. The fermented juice of the soya bean. (See also Soy.) Sole. A marine flatfish of most excellent flavour. Its flesh is white, delicate, and nutritive. It abounds on the British coasts, Torbay yielding the finest specimens. Its colour, as well as its flavour, depends in a great measure on its food, which consists mostly of small crabs and other shell-fish, and the characteristics of the ocean bed where it is found. If very light in colour, it is called the white sole ; if muddy, the black sole, the latter being considered the best. Solferino. An Italian village, the scene of two great battles. A clear soup, with tomatoes and vegetables, is so named. Sommelier, f. Wine steward or waiter. Sorbet, f. An iced Turkish drink ; also the name of a water ice with fruit or liqueur flavour, usually served in goblets. Sorbetidre, f. A pewter freezing-pot or freezing-pan. Sorrel. Oseille, f. A plant more or less acidulous from the presence of oxalic acid. Sot-1’y-lalsse. Chicken rump. Oyster of the chicken. Liter- ally translated, “ The fool leaves it.”