22 Beans, French: Haricots verts, f. French or string beans : Haricots verts. Broad beans : Feves. Green kidney beans : Flageolets. String beans mixed with flageolets : Haricots panaches. Bearnaise, f. Name of a rich white herb sauce with yolk of egg liason. Comes from the word Bearn, birthplace of King Henry IV., who was a great gourmand. Beauvilliers (Antoine). Name of a clever cuisinier, born 1754, died 1817. Created one of the first restaurants in Paris. Palais Royal Restaurant was first opened by him. Author of “ L’Art du Cuisinier,” a standard work of that period. Becasse, f. Woodcock. Becasseau. Sandpiper ; a young woodcock. Becassine or Becasse. Snipe. Bechamel, f. French white sauce. Recognised as one of the four foundation sauces. The name of this sauce is supposed to come from the Marquis de Bechamel, an excellent chef, who acted as steward in the service of King Louis XIV. Beef. Boeuf, f. Boiled beef—boeuf bouilli. Roast beef—boeuf roti. Braised beef—boeuf braise. Beef has from time immemorial been esteemed as the most substantial food. Its mode of cooking is usually of the simplest kind, though an infinite variety of dishes are made from it. Beefsteak Society. Was founded in London by a John Rich in 1735, and lasted till 1867. Beef-tea. The essence of beef, extracted by a slow process of cooking, more or less diluted, as required. Beer. Biere, f. Bier, g. A beverage made of malt and hops. First known by the ancient Egyptians, from whence it was brought to the Greeks, Romans, and Gauls. A Roman historian mentions this beverage as being in daily use under Julius Csesar (about the beginning of the Christian'Era). Beetroot. Betterave, f. A saccharine root. A wholesome and nutritious vegetable largely used pickled for salads and as garnish. In France and Germany it is extensively used for the manufacture of sugar. It forms a delicious salad, and an excellent soup. Behargue, f. A name given to Southdown mutton or mutton raised on the salt marshes of France. Also termed pre-sale. Beignets, f. Fritters. Also a kind of pancake fried in deep fat.