9 Aigre au C6drat, f. A favourite beverage of Cardinal Richelieu. Orangeade flavoured with the juice of mulberries, acidulated with lemon juice, and sweetened with honey. Aiguillettes, f. Small strips of cooked meat. Breasts of ducks and geese are carved “ en aiguillettes.” Small fillets of fish, as “ Aiguillettes de Sole.” Aiguille-a-Brider. Larding-needle, used for inserting strips of fat bacon into lean meat or birds (breasts of). Ail, f. Garlic—“ un goune d’ail,” a clove of garlic ; “ une pointe d’ail,” a little on the point of a knife. Aile, f. The wing of a bird. Ailerons, Airelle, f. Small wings of birds ; fins of some fish. Sometimes used for garnishing dishes, or served as ragout. Aillade, f. Garlic condiment, sauce, or pickle. Airelle Rouge, f. Red bilberry; dark red berries used for compote, jellies, and marmalade ; cranberry. Airelle, or Myrtille, f. Whortleberry. There are two sorts. One originates from America, and is very savoury, and is f eaten freshly picked with savoury milk or a cream sauce. I The other kind of whortleberry is a small fruit, of dark blue Tcolour ; seasoning certain dishes. Wine merchants use it to colour white wine. Aiselle, f. A species of beetroot; used as vegetable or in salads. Aitchbone of Beef. Culotte, f. An economical joint used as boiled meat or stews. The joint lies immediately under the rump. It is a bone of the rump, which in dressed beef presents itself in view edgewise ; hence it is sometimes called “ edgebone,” the ancient name for aitchbone. AjoutSes, f. To add or mix ; also applied to small garnish or side dishes served with vegetable course. A la, f. X la mode de, denoting the style or fashion of a dish ; a la fra^aise, French style ; a la Reine, Queen style ; alTmperatrice, Empress style; a la Russe, Russian style, etc. In this sense, the feminine singular a la (or a V, before a vowel) is always used as it refers to mode, which is feminine. A la Broche, f. Roasted in front of the fire on spit or skewer. A la Diable, f. Devilled ; seasoned with hot condiment or spices.