8 Adragan (gomme), f. Gum Tragacanth, e. Principal in- gredient used for gum paste. Adschempilavi. Name of a Turkish dish—pickled meat stewed with rice. Aerated Bread. The name given to bread prepared by a special process, known as “ Dr. Dauglish’s Process.” According to this process bread is made without leaven or yeast, carbonic acid gas being mixed or charged in water, which is mixed with flour in an iron vessel and placed under pressure to form the dough. Aerated Waters. These are used as the basis of a large number of effervescing drinks, cups, etc. They are consumed alone or with wines or spirits. The process of manufacture is not difficult; they are made by forcing a certain quantity of carbonic acid into water, which, under pressure, dissolves a quantity of this gas, but gives off the greater part again as soon as the pressure is removed, or, in other words, as soon as the stopper is taken out of the bottle. Soda and potash waters usually contain ten to fifteen grains of bi- carbonate of soda or potash, in addition to the carbonic acid. Seltzer water should contain chlorides of sodium, calcium, and magnesium, with phosphate and sulphate of sodium. Lemonade and other fruit beverages are made by the addition of a certain quantity of fruit essence or syrup to aerated water. There are also numerous natural mineral or aerated waters, which are obtained from springs containing certain salts in addition to carbonic acid gases. Among these may be mentioned Apollinaris, Johannis Seltzers, Rossbach, Vichy waters, etc. Agaric, f. A species of mushroom, of which there are six varieties used as edibles. Agneau, f. Lamb. A young sheep. Agras, f. A Continental drink made of pounded almonds and the juice of unripe grapes, slightly sweetened. It is served in a half-frozen condition. Agro-dolce Sauce. A sweet-sharp sauce, made with vinegar, sugar, pine kernels, almonds, chocolate, and small currants ; served hot. Aiglefin or Aeglefin, f. A kind of fish resembling the codfish ; is caught on the French coast, and cooked in the same manner as a codfish.