52 Cuisson, f. A method of slowly cooking meat. It is finished off by cooking in its own juice whilst in an oven. Cuissot, f. The haunch. Cuissot de veau, cuissot de cochon, cuissot de boeuf, etc. Cuit, f. Cooked. Culinaire, f. This is applied to anything in connection with the kitchen or the art of cooking. A good cook is called “ un artiste culinaire.” Cullis, f. A rich white gravy for flavouring and enriching soups and sauces. Culotte, f. Rump, aitchbone (of beef). Cumberland. An English nobleman to whom was dedicated “ Cumberland Sauce,” prepared with currant jelly, orange- juice, English mustard, etc. Served principally with game. Cumin, f. Caraway seed. The powdered seeds of this plant are largely used in the manufacture of curry powder. Cumin or Cuminum is referred to in Scripture (Matt, xxiii. 23). The fruit lobes separate in the way characteristic of the order, and are properly called seeds. Their odour and properties resemble those of caraway, but are stronger. It is often put into bread in Germany, and into cheese in Holland; it is also used in medicine. Curacao, f. A liqueur made of the zest of an aromatic fruit resembling the orange, and cultivated in the island of Curasao ; originally made in the island of that name in the Dutch West Indies. Used for flavouring creams, jellies, ices, etc. Curcuma, f. Turmeric. Curd. That part of the milk which has been coagulated by the aid of rennet, for the purpose of making cheese. Cure. Saler, f. Saurer, f. Curing in culinary language means the drying or smoking of previously salted meat or fish. Currants (dried). The name is derived from the fact that they were first imported from Corinth. The small seedless grapes from which they are made are originally red or blue. They form the principal article of export from Greece, where a very sweet kind of wine is also made from them. Curry, from the Hindu word khura (palatable, eatable). Kari, f. An Indian condiment; a stew of meat, fish or fowl ; a sharp spiced sauce. Curry, as a dish, is of immemorial