80 Jam. Confiture, F. A confection or conserve of fruit, made by boiling fruit with sugar to a certain consistency. Jambon, f. (See Ham.) Jambonneau. A very small ham. Jardiniere, f. A mixture of spring vegetables; vegetables stewed down in their own sauce. Jarret, f. Shin, knuckle (as “ Jarret de veau,” knuckle of veal). Jaune-mange, f. A kind of egg-jelly made from gelatine, white wine, lemons, sugar, and eggs. It is so called on account of its yellow colour. Jean de Careme (John of Lent). A famous cook under Pope Leo X., who received the nickname of “ John of Lent ” in consequence of a celebrated soupe maigre which he used to prepare for his master the Pope. He is supposed to be the direct ancestor of the celebrated Antoine Careme. Jelly. Gelee, f. Inspissated juice of fruits or meats. Concen- trated essence of any kind of food, having gelatinous sub- stance. It is obtained by boiling to a glutinous consistence. Jerked Beef. Beef cut into thin slices and dried in the sun. The word “ jerked ” is a corruption of the Peruvian word charqui, but does not mean that the meat has been shaken. Jernik-kalwasi. A Russian dish, consisting of semolina, milk, and honey. Jerusalem Artichoke. Topinambour, f. The word “ Jerusa- lem ” has no connection with Palestine ; it is a corruption of the Italian word “girasole,” the plant belonging to the family of sunflowers, which turn their blossoms towards King Sol. The plant grows from six to eight feet in height, has large rough leaves, and yellow flowers. The roots are creeping, and produce in autumn several round yellowish or reddish tubers. Jetee, f. A throw (as “ filer de sucre a la jetee ”—to spin sugar by throwing). John Dory. This fish is found in British seas. Its name is supposed to be derived from the French words “ jaune doree ” (golden yellow), as its body is marked with yellow. The fish has good flesh, which, strange to say, improves much when about 24 hours have elapsed from the time it was caught. Joint. Releves, f. The grosse-piece or piece de resistance of a dinner. On the Continent the joint is usually served after the fish, whilst in this country it is served after the entrees.