43 In Japan these edible flowers are a common article of diet, being abundantly displayed in grocers’ shops during Novem- ber and December. They are eaten as a salad, and almost every variety may be used, but those of a deep yellow are esteemed best for the purpose. The taste for them is, no doubt, an acquired one, as it is for most things. Chub. Chevanne, f. A sweet-water fish, resembling the carp. Very little used for cooking purposes, it being exceedingly bony. Chutney. An Indian condiment made of a variety of fruits, sugar, spices, and vinegar. Ciboule, Ciboulette, f. Chive. A small green onion, chiefly used in salads and soups. Cider. Cidre, f. The juice of apples fermented and used as a drink, principally in the country. Cider is also made in France and Germany. Cimier, f. Saddle, haunch (generally used of venison). Cinnamon. • Cannelle, f. The inner bark of a species of laurel. This shrub grows wild at Java and Ceylon, but is cultivated in the East and West Indies. Cinnamon (cinnamomum) has been in use from the remotest antiquity, is mentioned in the Old Testament by a name which is derived from the Hebrew qinnamon = a reed or cane, almost the same as that which it still bears in most languages. Citric Acid. This acid is used in small quantities for boiled sugar goods; it imparts body, and prevents the sugar from getting moist. It is obtained from the lemon (citrus limonum), but is also obtained from other acid fruits, such as sour cherries, Seville oranges, raspberries, currants, etc. To be obtained in a white powder from chemists, etc. Citron, f. Lemon. The fruit of the lemon-tree (citronier, f.), or citrus limonum ; a native of the North-West Indian Provinces. This fruit had been introduced by the Arabs into Spain, whence it was spread over Europe, and is now cultivated in almost all the tropical and sub-tropical countries. An important culinary condiment. Citronnat, f. Candied lemon-peel. The preserved peel of lemon. Citronne, f. Anything which has the taste or flavour of lemon. Citrouille, f. A kind of vegetable-marrow or pumpkin. Civet or Civette, f. A brown stew of hare, venison, or other game.