92 Margarine. The name given by Act of Parliament to imitation batters made from animal fat, formerly called butterine. “Margarine” means just pearly, the original “margarin” having been a substance isolated from fats by the great French chemist, Michel Eugene Chevreul, who named it in admiration of the pretty pearl-like crystals in which he obtained it. Thus margarine is a sister etymologically of all the Margarets, their common parent being the Greek word for a pearl, which was of Oriental origin. It is so- called mainly because the law found that “ butterine ” sounded so much like “butter” that customers might be imposed upon. Margot. Magpie. Marguery, f. Name of a famous Paris restaurateur. The inventor of the dish known as “ Filet de sole a la Marguery.” Marie-Louise. Second wife of Napoleon I., born 1791, died 1847. The lady was a great gourmand of her time. Marigold. A flavouring herb, also known as “ Pot Marigold.” It is a native of Spain, and was introduced into England in 1573- Marinade, f. The brine in which fish or meat is soused or pickled, before cooking. Marine, f. Pickled, cured. Mariniere. Mariner style. Marjolaine, f. Marjoram. An excellent kitchen herb of strong flavour, used fresh or dried for game seasoning ; also for flavouring sauces, forcemeat, etc. Marjoram. A pot herb. There are several varieties, but they all have an agreeable aromatic flavour. The sweet or knotted marjoram is a native of Portugal. Marrowbone. The large hollow bones of an animal which contain a fatty substance called marrow. Marsala. A wine in some respects resembling sherry and Madeira, so named after Marsala, in the Island of Sicily, near to which the grapes are grown. Marmelade, f. Marmalade. The term “ marmalade ” originated in Portugal. In that country marmalade was generally made from oranges, but sometimes quinces were used. Extending this view certain dictionaries define marmalade as being made from any kind of sour fruit. Apple and lemon marmalades are well-known table conserves.