10 Albrand, or Albrent, f. Name applied in France to young wild ducks ; after the month of October they are called canard eaux, and the month following canards. Albufera, f. A lake near Valencia, in Spain. Title given to Duke of Wellington, 1812. Dishes called after his name, a 1’, served with a sharp brown sauce flavoured with port wine. Roast pork, game, etc. Albumen. A nitrogenous substance contained in white of egg and lean meat, principally beef. Albumine, f. Albumen (white of egg). Alderman’s Walk. The name given to the centre cut (long incision) of a haunch of mutton or venison, where the most delicate slices are to be found. It also denotes the best part of the under-cut (fillet) of a sirloin of beef. The name is supposed to be derived from a City Company’s dinner, at which a City Alderman showed a special liking for this cut. Alisander, e. Sometimes called Alexander. “ Persie de macedoine,” f. Name of a plant belonging to the parsley and celery order. As a culinary plant it is almost forgotten, but may be found in its wild state near the sea coast of Great Britain. Before celery was known this plant was used as a salad ingredient. Allemande (a 1*), f. German style. As a surname to dishes is applied in many cases where the origin of the preparations are in a manner peculiar to Germany. Thus a dish garnished with sauerkraut and pork (pickled and boiled), its style is termed a 1’Allemande. Again, a dish garnished with potato quenelles or smoked sausages may be defined in the same manner. Allemande Sauce, f. A white reduced veloute sauce, made from veal stock, thickened with flour, cream, yolk of egg, and seasoned with nutmeg and lemon juice. Allerei. Name of a German dish, consisting of stewed early spring vegetables. A kind of macedoine of vegetables, principally served at Leipzig. Alliance (a la Ste.), f. Name of a garnish for entrees, consisting of braised carrots, artichoke bottoms, and small onions. Allspice. Piment, epice, f. Also called Jamaica pepper or pimento. The ground, ripe, and dried berries of a pretty evergreen-tree of the myrtle species, which grows plentifully