135 Soubise, f. A smooth onion pulp served with various kinds of meat entrees. The name is supposed to come from Prince Charles Soubise (born 1715, died 1787), who was a celebrated epicure. He served as field-marshal during the reign of Louis XIV. of France. As a surname to dishes a la soubise is generally applied when onions enter largely into the com- position of a dish ; the term implies that strong onion flavour, or a garnish of onion puree. Souchets or Souchies. Probably derived from the word “ souche,” stump or piece. Often used with the prefix “^waTer^.” as water-souchet. It consists of a flat fish, as flounders or soles, cut transversely in slices, boiled in salted water, and served with finely-shredded roots and herbs. Souffle, f. A very light baked or steamed pudding ; an omelet. Also applied to light savoury creams. Souffle glace, f. A very light sweet cream mixture, iced, and served in cases. Soupe, Potage, f. Soup. Souper. Supper; evening meal. Soupiere. Soup-tureen. Souse. A liquid in which meat or fish is soaked. Soy. Soja. This is a preparation added to soups and sauces as a flavouring and colouring ingredient. Soy is the Japanese name of a leguminous plant, “ dolichossoja.” It is said to be produced by fermentation of the soja-bean in salt water. It is shipped to this country as a dark brown treacle-like extract. Cautiously mixed with soups, ragouts, sauces, and gravies, it imparts an agreeable flavour and improves the colour. Spaghetti. A kind of very small macaroni. Spare Rib of Pork. The back of a pig’s neck is peculiarly well- covered with flesh, especially that of a large animal destined for bacon. This portion, including the ribs attached, is called the “ spare rib.” In some localities in the North, the backbone (chine), and the ribs with their lean flesh, is sepa- rated from the side or flitch, and eaten in a fresh condition. The term spare-rib is also applied to this. Sparrowgrass. Ancient name for asparagus. Spatchcock. Originally a fowl, killed and immediately roasted or broiled, for some sudden occasion. The name is said to be a cor- ruption of despatch and cock. The modern dish consists of a chicken slit down the back and grilled. (See Spread Eagle.)