66 to the mode of preparation. Thus dishes styled a la Bechamel, a la Bordelaise, a la Demi-glace, a VEspagnole, etc., are, as a rule, names merely derived from these sauces. The old school strictly adheres to all such names ; they are universally adopted by all good chefs, and recognised by connoisseurs and gourmets alike. It must, however, be stated that many of these names are either abused or misused by some chefs, many of them having their own formula of preparation, which are presented under names that differ considerably as regards the external, and sometimes internal, features from the original methods for which these names were intended as symbols of typical preparations. Dishes thus altered are therefore hard to recognise if served under a well-known name, but in a different style ; they lose all the culinary charm or its significance ; they puzzle and fog the diner who is acquainted with the gastronomic law in respect to the names and characteristics of dishes ; and, to say the least, they also confuse cooks who may be called upon to prepare dishes produced and served under wrong titles. Friand, f. An epicure ; a dainty person. Friandines, f. Small round patties containing mince. Friandises. Name given to small dessert dainties, petits fours, etc. Friar’s Omelet. A baked omelet prepared with apples stewed to a pulp, eggs, and sugar. Fricandeau, f. Braised fillet of veal, larded. This dish is supposed to have been invented by Jean de Careme, who was the direct ancestor of the famous Careme. He was cook to Pope Leo X. This Pontiff possessed magnificent tastes ; he fostered the genius of Raphael the painter, and encouraged also the genius which could discover a fricandeau. Fricandelles, f. Small thin braised steaks of veal or game. Fricassee, f. Fricasseed. The word comes from the English freak, brisk, dainty. A white stew of chicken, rabbit or veal. Frise, f. Curled. As “choux frises,” curled Savoy cabbage. Frit, f. Fried. Fritbt. Anything dipped in frying batter, and fried.