106 Paon, F. Peacock. A fowl of the pheasant kind. In olden times this bird formed a dish of equal importance as the boar’s head in English Christmas fare. Papaw. A South American fruit, green in colour, and very similar to a small melon in appearance and flavour. It is eaten either raw or cooked. The sap of the tree and the juice of the fruit both'possess the unique property of speedily rendering the toughest meat tender, and for this purpose meat and fowls are often hung among the branches of the tree to imbibe its exhalations. Papaye, f. Papay. A South American fruit. Papier dentile, f. Lace paper. Papillotes (en). Paper capsules, cases or envelopes, greased, and fastened round cutlets, etc. Buttered paper answers the same purpose when twisted along the edges. Paprika. Hungarian red pepper. A kind of sweet capsicum of a brilliant scarlet colour ; it is less pungent than the Spanish pepper. Parfait, f. Perfect. A kind of light, rich ice-cream. A mixture of the souffle type of fish, fowl or game, enriched with the essence of its chief ingredient. Parfait-amour. A French liqueur from grated cedrat skins. Parisienne (a la). Parisian style. A surname applied to various kinds of dishes, principally meat dishes, which are dressed in a more or less elaborate style. No particular specification as to garnish or mode of cooking can be given, as these vary in almost every dish thus styled. Parkin. A variety of gingerbread made of oatmeal. Parmentier (Antoine Augustin). Born 1737, died 1813; intro- ducer of the potato into France, in 1786, during the reign of Louis XVI. He also invented twenty different ways of cooking potatoes. Sir W. Raleigh brought the potato from America to England in 1586. Parmesan. Name of an Italian cheese, largely used for culinary purposes. Parsley. Persil, f. A plant used for flavouring and garnishing. Parsnip. Panais, f. The parsnip is a very fattening vegetable. In times of scarcity, when wheat was dear and not easily procured, a very good bread was made from the roots of parsnips ground to powder.