82 Kebobs (Khubab). Name of a dish served in India and Turkey, consisting of small slices of mutton run on skewers, and grilled or braised. Kedgeree (Kadgiori, Kitchri or Kegeree). An Indian dish of fish and rice curried. The name is taken from Khichri, an Indian dish, consisting of boiled fish or salt fish, eggs, and rice, garnished with hard-boiled eggs, strips of chili, etc. Kelkel. A slice of sole dried and salted. Ketchup (Catchup or Catsup). Name of a much-esteemed sauce. The best known ketchups are made of fresh mushrooms mixed with salt, and flavoured with spices. Tomato ketchup is prepared in a similar way, or walnut ketchup, for which unripe walnuts are used. Kettle of Fish. A kind of fish stew well known in Scotland, locally known as “ fish and sauce.” It is generally made from haddock. Kickshaw. Espece de ragout or charcuterie, f. This is a name used in cookery which may be given to any dish prepared with extraordinary nicety ; but it is usually applied to such things as are regarded luxuries by the rich. Kid. Chevreau, f. A young wild goat. In the time of our forefathers the flesh was esteemed as much as lamb. The meat is sweet and very tender. It is usually cooked whole, like sucking-pig (larded or barded, and sometimes marinaded). Kidney. Rognons, f. Sheep’s, lamb’s, veal, and pork kidneys are alone considered of any account in cookery. They possess a peculiar slightly bitter flavour, which characteristic makes them a favourite dish for breakfast or luncheon. They are best grilled or sauteed. (Somewhat indigestible.) Kipper. Name applied to herrings, salmon, or mackerel, split open, salted (cured), smoked, and dried. (The word is taken from the Dutch kipper, which means to hatch or to spawn.) Kirschwasser, Kirsch. A white liqueur distilled from cherries. Kishri, Kitchery, Kitchris, and Kitcharee. An Indian dish, generally known under the name of Kedgeree or Quitheri. It is a mixture of rice or lentils, cooked with butter and fish, dholl, etc., and flavoured with fennel, shredded or minced onions, a little spice, etc. It is a common dish all over India; mostly served at breakfast. Dholl or dhall is a kind of Indian pulse.