fi 113 Poisson, f. Fish. The fish course of a dinner. Poissoniere, f. Fish-kettle ; fish pan. Poitrine, f. Breast. Poivre. Pepper, the berry of an Oriental shrub. A pungent aromatic condiment consumed with all kinds of meat and vegetables. Mignonette pepper is obtained from the seeds within the berries; it is not nearly so pungent as the black pepper. The difference between the black and white pepper is that in the latter the outer husk of the seed is removed, whilst the former is ground whole. Poivre de Guinee, f. A kind of cayenne, prepared from the seeds of the ripe chili or capsicum annuum. It is also called “ chili pepper.” Large quantities of this aromatic plant are grown in Cayenne, in South America. The name of Guinee pepper is also given to the ground seeds of dried fruit of certain plants of the same kind as capsicums, all of which have a pungent character and are the products of Western Africa. Poivre de Cayenne, Poivre rouge. Cayenne pepper, red pepper. Polenta. A standard Italian dish made of Indian corn flour ; in appearance and taste it is not unlike semolina. Polio con Arroz. A Spanish dish of chicken and rice. Pollock. Morue, f. A sea-fish of the cod family. Polonaise (a la), f. Polish style. Various dishes are known under this name. Borsch a la Polonaise and ragouts a la Polonaise are types of~dishes to which the peculiar flavour of cream, beetroot, and red cabbage is introduced. Polony. A dry sausage made of meat partly cooked. Polpetti. {See Poulpeton.) Pomegranate. This fruit possesses great thirst-quenching properties in an exceedingly pleasant form. The fruit, when freshly gathered, is much larger than an orange. In its imported condition the pulp has diminished in quantity and deteriorated in quality, by the shrinking of the outer rind. Pomme, f. Apple. Beignets de pomme. Apple fritters. Tarte aux pomme. Apple tart. {See Apple.) Pommes d’Api. Small rosy apples named after the Roman Appius. Pommes nouvelles. New potatoes. Pommes sauvage. Crab-apples.