65 E Fraise, F. Strawberry. Also crow; the rhessentery of a caif or lamb ; the fleshy excrescence under the throat of a turkey. Fraiser la pate, f. To plait; to make rough ; to ruffle. Fraisure, f. Haslets. Lights. As “ Fraisure et agneau,” lambs’ lights or haslets. Framboises, f. Raspberries. Francaise (a la), f. This is, generally speaking, applied to a number of dishes of French origin. The term is used for dishes cooked in a simple manner as to those of the most elaborate finish. With the exception of a few grills and soups, the term cannot be taken as signifying anything in particular, because the preparation as well as the garnish varies in almost every case. (See also French Surnames to Dishes.) Francatelli. Name ot an eminent chef (1805-1876), author of the “ Cook’s Guide ” and the “ Modern Cook,” pupil of A. Careme, chef at the Reform Club, and to her late Majesty Queen Victoria. Francatu, f. A russet apple. Frangipane. A substitute for custards made of eggs, milk, some flour, with an addition of lemon-rind, rum, brandy, and vanilla, etc., to flavour. An excellent confectioner’s custard for filling tartlets, etc., is also made in this way and under this name. The French often use it for covering fruit tarts. Frapper, f. Iced (used when cooling champagne). French Beans. Haricot verts. (See Beans.) French Surnames to Dishes.—The French Cuisine has a considerable number of thoroughly descriptive and well- understood surnames given to dishes, all of which come under the title of “a la Fran9aise ” ; many of these are named after some peculiarities favoured in the provinces of France. Surnames derived from French towns, from certain countries, and from past and present patrons of the culinary art under whose influence many dishes have been invented, and in some cases actually prepared, are also very numerous, and, with few exceptions, most significant and expressive. There are many dishes which derive their names merely from sauces with which they are served or dressed, and have no reference