21 Basil. An aromatic pot herb. Basil vinegar is made by steeping the leaves in vinegar, and is used for flavouring when the fresh plant cannot be procured. Basilic. An aromatic culinary herb, allied to thyme. It is included in the “ sweet ” as well as “ savoury ” herbs, on account of its pleasant aromatic smell and taste. Basler Leckerlis. A kind of dessert biscuits—Bale delicacy— richly flavoured with honey and spice, called after the town of Bale, where they are mostly made. These delicacies are to be found at almost every railway buffet on the Continent. Bass. A fish belonging to the same order as the perch. It is sometimes called white salmon, or salmon-dace. It attains a weight of fifteen pounds, but it is usually much smaller. Baste—to baste. To drip liquified fat on meat during the process of roasting, in order to prevent the outside of joints, birds, etc., from becoming dry. Bath Chaps. The cheek and jaw-bone of the pig, salted and smoked. Thus called because those coming from Bath were first known, and the first to obtain a reputation as being the very finest. Bath still enjoys this honour. Baton. Stick or slice. Batons royaux, f. Small patties of minced chicken and game ; the favourite dish of Charles XII. Batter. Pate a frire, f. A mixture of several ingredients beaten together. Frying batter—pate a frire, f. Batterie de cuisine, f. A complete set of cooking utensils and apparatus. Bavaroise, f. Bavarian cream, e. A kind of cold custard pudding. Bavaroise a l’eau, f. Tea flavoured with syrup of capillaire and orange-flower water. Bavette d’Aloyau. Thin flank of beef or veal. Bayonnaise (a la). Garnished with anchovy, fillets, gherkins, and boiled button onions. Bayleaf. Laurier, f. The leaf of a species of the laurel-tree, known as the cherry laurel. Largely used as flavouring. It is generally included in the bouquet garni. Bayleaf flavour should always be used in moderation. It is exten- sively employed in Sweden and Russia in the preserving of anchovies and other fish.