Pot-au-feu, f. Is an economical and wholesome beef broth. It is the standard dish of all classes in France, and the origin of beef stock. The pot-au-feu no doubt originated in Spain, where it became the fashion to cook beef with vegetables; and from thence it was brought by Asmad, the chef of King Philip V., to France in 1715. Potiron, f. Pumpkin or pompion. The fruit of an annual plant belonging to the gourd family. It grows in various shapes, the so-called pear-shaped species being most similar to the delicious marrow on English markets. It is used for the preparation of potages, such as a la puree de citrouille. It is also made in the form of a choucroiite, or sauerkraut, au Potiron, for winter use. Potpourri, f. A stew of various kinds of meats and spices ; a favourite dish in Spain. Potrock. Name of a Russian thick soup. Potted. Fish or meat puree preserved in a pot. Pottinger. Ancient popular name of apothecary or spice merchant. Ponding, f. Pudding. Pouding au pain. Bread pudding. Pouding au pain bis. Brown-bread pudding. Pouding de Noel. Christmas pudding, plum pudding. Pougues. A saline mineral water, the spring of which lies in Pougues, in the department of Nievre. Poularde, f. Fat pullet ; a chicken about 7 or 8 months old that has not started to lay eggs. The poularde du Mans is generally preferred for roasting purposes ; for entrees and made dishes the Normandy capon enjoys higher favour. Poule, f. The common hen. The expression is accepted as a culinary term, to imply a bird past the period at which it is tender enough to be roasted. It serves, however, well for invalid broth and for boiling under the name of poule au riz. Poule au pot. Fowl boiled in the stock pot. Poule d'eau. Water-hen, moor-hen. Poule de neige. White grouse. Pouleinte. A kind of meal, the polenta of the Italians and Spanish folk. It is a useful and a nourishing substance. Timbale de pouleinte a la Piedmontaise, Pouleinte a la milanaise, and au poisson, are among the most popular recipes.