Score (to). To make incisions crossways on the surface of fish, vegetables or meat. This is done to facilitate the process of cooking, and thus improving the flavour. Seorsconere, f. Scorzonera. A kind of oyster plant, treated and served like parsnips or salsify. Scotch Eggs. Name given to a dish of hard-boiled eggs; the shells having been removed, the}’’ are covered'with a layer of sausage or other forcemeat, after which they are egged and crumbed and fried in deep fat. Scotch Style. A l’Ecossaise, f. Scotch Woodcock. Toast spread with anchovy paste, with scrambled eggs on top. Scots Kail. Name of a thick broth ; a kind of pot-au-feu, served as a standing dish among the middle classes of Scotland. Sea Bream. A fish plentiful on the shores of Cornwall, and on the southern coast, especially near Hastings. When young, this fish is known as the chad. Seakale. Chou de mer, f. A delicious vegetable largely cultivated in Great Britain, but very little known on the Continent; it grows wild in all parts of Europe. It was first grown in England in the middle of the 18th century by a gardener in Stoke Fleming, who cultivated the plants, which he found growing wild. The}’- were so much appre- ciated that the gardener’s master presented some of the roots to his friends at Bath, after which they became popular in all parts of England. Seasoning, e. Assaisonnement, f. That which is used to render food palatable and more relishing. The word is also employed to include forcemeat and stuffing. Sec, Seche, f. Dry. Of champagne (using masculine, sec), meaning that a little liqueur has been added to make it sweeter. Seche, f. Dried. Secheur. A drying apparatus. Sect. A German designation for champagne. From the Latin, vino secco, dry wine. Seigle, f. Rye. Pain de seigle. Rye bread. This plant is indigenous to Southern Russia, but is now extensively grown in Germany, Scandinavia, and North America. Rye beer {see Quass). Rye bread is very nutritious, and keeps fresh for a longer period than wheaten bread ; it is in use throughout the North of Europe.