70 Giblets. Abatis, f. The trimmings oi poultry (neck, pinions, liver, heart, etc.). Those from geese, turkeys, fowls, and ducks are principally used for pies, stews, and soups. Gigot, f. Gigot de mouton—leg of mutton. Gigot d'agneau— leg of lamb. Gigot a Sept Heures or Gigot a la Cuillere is a leg of mutton which has been cooked for seven hours, when it may be carved with a spoon. Gigot a Vail, f. This is a favourite dish in France. The garlic is sometimes boiled in three separate waters before the cloves are inserted into the leg of mutton : this greatly modifies the strong taste and pene- trating flavour and smell. Gimblettes, f. A kind of French pastry, resembling, and prepared similarly to, Croque-en-bouche. Ginger. Gingembre, f. Ginger is the root of a plant, a native of East and West Indies. This plant grows to the height of about three feet, and when its stalks are withered the roots are gathered, separated, scraped, washed, bleached, and dried ready for use or exportation. It is also ground or preserved whole for various culinary purposes. Ginger was known to the Romans, and is said by Pliny to have been brought from Arabia. Gingerbread. Pain d’epice, f. Gingerbread made of rye-flour, honey, ginger, and other spices, was sold in Paris as early as the 14th century. It was probably introduced into England in the reign of Henry the Fourth, and shortly after- wards treacle was used in making it, instead of honey. Gingerbread made with treacle being darker than that made with honey, it was covered with gold-leaf or gilt paper to disguise its colour ; hence arose our familiar proverb about taking “ the gilt off the gingerbread.” Girofle, f. Clove. A very pungent aromatic spice, vulgarly called “ cloude girofle,” because it has the form of a nail ; native of the island of Ternate. Gitana (a la), f. Gipsy fashion. Glace, f. Ice. Also applied to concentrated stock—i.e., meat glaze. Glace, f. Frozen, iced. Glace de sucre (Glace royale). Icing sugar ; very fine dust sugar ; mixed with white of egg it is called Royal Icing.