127 Salade, f. Salad. Raw herbs, edible plants, raw and cooked vegetables, etc., seasoned with oil and vinegar or other salad dressing. Saladier. Salad dish or bowl. Salamandre, f. This is an utensil which, after being made red- hot, is used for browning any dishes that want colour. Salami. An Italian sausage, chiefly used as hors d’oeuvre. Sandwiches. Sale, f. Salt, salted ; corned. Saler. To salt; to season with salt. Saler de la viande, to cure meat. Saliere, salt cellar. Salicoque. Prawn ; small sea lobster of excellent flavour. Sally Lunn. Name of a kind of tea-cake, slightly sweetened and raised with brewers’ yeast. Sally Lunn was a celebrated personage at Bath who, at the close of the 18th century, used to make and sell a kind of tea-biscuits known as “ Sally Lunns.” She used to sell these in the streets of Bath. Salmagundi. Name of a very old English supper dish. It is a kind of meat-salad, mixed and decorated with hard-boiled eggs, anchovy, pickles, and beetroot. Salmi or Salmis. A brown ragout made of game when par- roasted. The term is also incorrectly applied to a rechauffe of previously cooked game. Salmon. Saumon, f. The salmon, which leaves the sea and ascends the river to spawn, is one of the most delicious and nutritive of the finny tribe, although less easily digested than fish containing less fatty matter. Salmon are found distributed over the north of Europe and Asia, but not in warm latitudes, never having been caught so far south as the Mediterranean. The salmon is said to grow quickly. Izaak Walton says : “ The samlet becomes a salmon in as short time as a gosling becomes a goose.” Salpetre, f. The commercial name for nitre, the nitrate of potash ; used in conjunction with salt, etc., for curing meat. Salpicon, f. A mince of poultry or game with ham or tongue and mushrooms used for croquettes, bouchees, rissoles, etc. Salsify (Salsifits). Oyster plant. The flavour of the root re- sembles somewhat that of the oyster. (See also Oyster Plant. ) Salzgurken. Small salted cucumbers. German pickle served with boiled or roast meats; made of cucumbers soused in salt water.