147 Andover. The feast, however, appears to be gradually on the decline, for whereas the proceedings used to be parti- cipated in by hundreds of the most prominent personages in the district, the event this week did not attract more than some twenty or so guests.” Verduresse, f. Green vegetables ; salad herbs ; pot herbs. Verjus, f. Juice of unripe grapes or crab-apples. Vermicelle, f. Vermicelli, it. Very fine strings of paste, threadlike in appearance, made from the dough of wheat flour, and forced through cylinders or pipes till it takes a slender, worm-like form, when it is dried ; used in soups, puddings, and for crumbing. Vermouth. A favourite aromatic wine distilled from worm- wood, sweet wine, and various fruits, herbs, and spices ; said to stimulate appetite. Vert-pre, f. Name of a green herb sauce, or applied to dishes with green garnishing. Viande, f. Meat, viands. Viande de careme. Lenten food. Viande faisandee, hasardee. Meat kept till it is high. Viande (menue). Fowl and game. Vichy, f. A mineral water that takes its name from Vichy, a French watering-place. Villeroi, f. Name of a famous French family. Several dishes are so named. Villeroux. Name of a chef, a friend of the great Careme, who was famous as Count Mirabeau’s chef. It is said that Villeroux went to live among a wild tribe in India, where he practised his art with such success that within a very short time he was proclaimed king. When he died, he left his people as a legacy the recipe for making “ Omelette au Jambon.” If the statement be true, it is the only instance in history of a cook being made a king. Villeroux’s bio- grapher describes him as a worthy prince, who was celebrated, not only as a cook, but also for his wit and love of adventure. This accounts, probably, for his falling into the midst of a wild Indian tribe. Vin, f. Wine. Vin blanc (au). Done in white wine. Vlnaigre, f. Vinegar. Literally sour wine. Vin-aigre—used for pickling, in sauces, and for salads. Vinegar is made from apples, wood, sugar, and from any kind of grain, but