41 Cherry. Cerise, f. The fruit of the cherry-tree. Some 300 different varieties of this fruit are now known, of which the black or Morelia (guigne) is the best for cooking purposes. The white-heart cherry (Bigarreau) is the best of dessert cherries. (See also Cerise.) Chervil. Cerfeuil, f. The leaves of this herb are largely used for decorating moulds. Its peculiar flavour, somewhat re- sembling a mixture of fennel and parsley, forms an agreeable adjunct to a salad. Chestnut. Marron or Chataigne, f. Named after the town of Castanea in Thessaly. A nutritious and easily-digestible fruit; used as stuffing for turkeys, poulards, and capons; also as an ingredient in soups, sauces, and purees. As a sweet or dessert it is also used in various ways. Chestnuts were a favourite food among the ancient Greeks. Chevanne, f. Chub. A sweet-water fish. (See Chub.) Cheveuse d’Ange, f. A sweetmeat prepared from young carrots. Chevreuil, f. Roe-buck, roe-deer, e. Chevreuse, f. Small goose-liver tartlets; a distinguished states- man of the latter part of the 17th century—Claude de Lorraine due de Chevreuse, after whom certain dishes are named. Chicken Broth. Usually made by simmering an old hen until all the goodness is extracted. A little vegetable and pearl- barley is sometimes added. Chicoree, f. Succory, endive. Used for salads, and as a vegetable. Chicory. Chicore, f. Also called “ Succory,” or wild endive. The young root is used as a vegetable, and the leaves as a salad. The mature root roasted and ground produces the chicory used to adulterate coffee. Chicory is found grow- ing wild on the borders of our cornfields, but the plant is cultivated in all parts of Europe. Chiffonnade, f. Soup herb leaves, finely shredded. Chine of Pork. The chine, when cut from a small pig, consists of two undivided loins, and corresponds to a saddle of mutton. In a large pig, whose sides are intended for bacon, the name is given to the spinal or back-bone and the meat attached, the amount of which varies considerably according to locality. Chinois, f. A pointed strainer with very fine holes, used for straining soups, sauces, and gravies. A Chinese fruit.