19 Bain-Marie, f. The culinary water-bath. It is a large open vessel, half-filled with hot water, where sauces, etc., are kept in small saucepans, so that they are nearly at the boiling-point without burning or reducing. Baisers, f. Kisses ; a kind of sweets. Baisure, f. Kissing crust (the soft part where two loaves of bread are attached). Baking. A common form of cooking by means of dry heat. The term “ baking ” is usually applied when articles are cooked in an oven or some other close structure, in which the action of the dry heat is more or less modified by the presence of steam which arises from the food whilst cooking. Bread has been baked from immemorial antiquity. Lot did bake unleavened bread more than three thousand six hundred years ago ; Pharaoh had his baker ; and in the ceremonial law given by Moses to the ancient Jews, they were distinctly directed to bring cakes “ baken in the oven.” Ballotine, f. Small balls or rolls of meat or fowl. Banana, e. Banane, f. Fruit of the plantain-tree. Used as dessert fruit; also for puddings, creams, ices, fritters, etc. This fruit forms one of the principal sources of food in the tropics. It is eaten raw when ripe, when unripe can be boiled and served as a vegetable, or baked and served with orange juice. The banana of to-day differs as widely from its ancestors as does the potato. There are 176 known varieties, and the productive power per acre is pro- digious, the yield being about 300 bunches per acre per annum. Bannocks. A kind of thin, round, flat cake, made with oatmeal, butter, baking powder, and water. They are baked like griddle cakes, or in a hot iron frying-pan. Finally, they are toasted till quite crisp. Banquet, f. A sumptuous feast; an entertainment of eating and drinking. Banqueter, f. To banquet, to feast, to treat oneself with a good feast. Bantam Fowl. A very small fowl, so called because it was originally brought from Bantam, Java. It is now largely bred in this country. Bantam eggs, though small, are of superior quality. Baraquille. A large pie made of rice, chicken, and truffles.