This Volume Contains Some Six Hun- dred Recipes For the preparation of Sanitarium foods. These foods are manu- factured by the Battle Creek Sanitarium Co., Ltd., and the Sanitas Nut Food Co., Ltd., the two original health food manu- facturers of Battle Creek. Our products are of world-wide repu- tation, some of them having been in use more than a quarter of a century. It is not, however, about the foods themselves, but the best method of purchasing them, that we wish to talk. Many good grocers carry only a few of them; some, a large line; more, none at all. This is no more than is to be expected, for we make forty- nine varieties, too many for any grocer to carry. Some of them are intended for special cases, while several lack the keeping quali- ties essential to popular sellers. Thousands upon thousands of grocers have never heard of our products. To meet these conditions we have organized a Mail-Order De- partment. During the years it has been in operation, this Twen- tieth-Century plan of communication between the manufacturer and the consumer has proven eminently satisfactory. The fact that we number by the thousand the satisfied customers to whom we are regularly shipping our foods in five- and ten-dollar lots, is the best of evidence that the plan is practical. One of its chief advantages is the assurance a customer feels when making his order that the box will contain just the foods he selects, and that they will be perfectly fresh. In many cases the foods shipped to-day were baked yesterday. We have endeavored to give our customers every possible advantage, and have so carefully worked out the details that our foods cost no more laid down in j'our town than you would be obliged to pay for them if purchased in Battle Creek. Manifestly, it is impossible for us to make the same terms to customers in New Mexico as to those in Michigan. Accordingly, we make four different propositions to suit as many sections of the country. Look in the list for your State. To all express offices in the following States we prepay the express on orders for $5.00 or more. If the foods are used in larger quantities, so that it is practicable to ship in $15.00 lots, the freight is paid and a discount of 10 per cent is granted. Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Illinois Indiana Iowa Kentucky Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Missouri New Hampshire New Jersey New York Ohio Pennsylvania Rhode Island Vermont Virginia West Virginia Wisconsin Most customers prefer to order by express, as it ensures the prompt arrival of the goods. Under this arrangement, with the most ordinary care, your larder may always be supplied with the products of our factories. To freight stations in the following States, freight is fully prepaid on $10.00 orders, while on $20.00 orders, in addition to the payment of freight, a discount of 10 per cent is granted.