Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21688837SHE ANATOMY OF THE HUMAN BONES AND NERVES, t -WITH A DESCRIPTION OF THE / Hainan %,atital miti Mutt, BY ALEXANDER MONRO, M. D. LATE PROFESSOR OF ANATOMY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH. CAREFULLY REVISED, WITH ADDITIONAL NOTES AND ILLUSTRATIONS' By JEREMIAH KIR BY, M. D. AUTHOR OF TABLES OF THE MATERIA MEDlCA, &C. Edinburgh : Printed by Win Aitchixon, High Street, FOR THOMAS BRYCE Of CO. NO. 66, SOUTH BRIDGE, OPPOSITE THE COLLEGE. 181?.TO ALEXANDER MONRO Sen. M.D. AND ALEXANDER MONRO, Jun. M.D. TEL LOWS OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS, A>*n PROFESSORS OF ANATOMY AND SURGERY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH, &C. &C GENTLEMEN, I beg leave to present yon with a new Edition of your respected Predecessor's invaluable Work on the Anatomy of the Human Bones and Nerves. In preparing this Edition for the press, I have been anxious only to render the work more generally useful to Anatomi- cal Students of the present day, by add- ing to it a few references to later authors who have treated on the same subjects, and some synonymous names and terms,which may be more familiar to certain classes of readers. The mdtfer of the ex- cellent original has been left unchanged, except in a few instances, where altera- tions were warranted by the quarto edi- tion of the Author's Works. The changes which have been occasionally made on the language, were also suggested by the same edition ; and if, in this particular, I have presumed- to go beyond the Editor of that collection, it has been merely with the view of accommodating the phraseo- logy to the fastidious delicacy of a mo- dern ear. I have the honour to be, With the greatest respect, GENTLEMEN, Your most obedient humble servant, JEREMIAH KIHBY,CONTENTS. Letter to T)r Barclay . vii Introductory View of Barclay's Nomenclature xi Tables of the Bones of the Head xx Author's Prefatory Address to his Pupils . . . xxxii The Anatomy of the Human Bones 1 Of the Bones in General .... ib. Of. the Skeleton 45 Of the Head 47 Of the Trunk 124 Of the Superior Extremities 174 Of the Interior Extremities 206 Appendix. Of the Marks of a Female Skeleton 235 The Anatomy of the Human Nerves 259 Of the Nerves in General .... ib. Of the Particular Nerves .... 272 Description of the Human Lacteal Sac and Duct 501JOHN BARCLAY, M. D. FELLOW OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS, EELLOW OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY, AND LECTURER ON ANATOMY AND SUUG1RY IN EDINBURGH, My Dear Sir, It is uow about six years since I was in- duced, chiefly in compliance with your persua- sion and advice, to superintend a new edition of Monro's Anatomy of the Human Bones and Serves. Your pupils are early taught, both by your precepts aud your example, to see the im- portance—the necessity—of acquiring an inti- mate and correct knowledge of Osteology, before they can pioperly comprehend, or apply to prac- tical purposes, the other departments of Anato- mical Science. From the respect which they frequently hear you express for the Osteology of Monro, as well as from the acknowledged in- trinsic merit of the work itself, which has pro- cured it a place, either in whole or in part, either in its own proper dress, or under various masquerade habits, in almost all the Anatomical Systems, Treatises, and Compeiidiums, which* • • VIII have appeared in this country, tliey are natu- rally led to prefer the original work to all the writings on the same subject that are conti- nually teeming from the press. That your opinion of the continued popula- rity of this truly Classical Work has been well founded, sufficiently appears from the rapid sale of the last edition, and the reiterated call for another. Again invited to the agreeable task of ushering to the public this New Edition, I can- not allow so favourable an opportunity to escape of addressing to you my introductory observa- tions, on the nature of the Original Work, and the circumstances which characterize the pre- sent Edition. Excellent as the matter of Monro's Anatomy of the Bones confessedly is, it cannot be denied that something was wanting to accommodate it to the improved state of Anatomical knowledge, which, in the other departments of that Science, distinguishes the beginning of the nineteenth century. The language of the Original, though perspicuous, and in general correct, is often an- tiquated, and therefore ill suited to he refined taste of the present day ; and the references to other authors were so far incomplete, as not comprehending those subsequent to the Author's time. Monro's names of muscles too, though well understood in the early part of the eighteenth century, are now, in general, become obsolete'; and the Nomenclature of Anatomy has, chiefly through your means, received such important improvements, that in a few years many of theXI old terms for position and aspect will either be abandoned, or will not easily be understood. j'o supply these obvious defects in the work which I have undertaken to revise, has been my principal object in the preceding, and more espe- cially in the present Edition, i have, in many places, modernized the language ; given addi- tional references to later authors on the same subject ; added the synonimous names of mus- cles of Albinus and Lines, and wherever the old terms for position and aspect might be produc- tive of ambiguity or obscurity, I base pointed out, in foot notes, the terms of your ISomencia- ture with which they correspond *. Although, both from your own writings and those of your disciples and converts, these terms are now better understood than when I published the former Edition, I have thought it adviseable to retain the short account and tabular outline of your Nomenclature there given. I have also added to the Introductory matter, the Tabular View of the Bones of the Head, employed and recommended in your Lectures, You will observe, Sir, that in that part of the volume which compiehends the Anatomy of the Nerves, the Notes and Illustrations are propor- tionally more numerous. This was rendered ne- cessary from the circumstance that man v valuable works on the Nervous System have appeared since the days of the fust Monro, which, though they cannot detract from the original merit of the * The Notes and References l>y tic Editor are dfstiiigiii>.lied , by the letter E.X Treatise, render it comparatively much lees per- fect than the Anatomy of the Bones. At the same time, as I could not, without greatly in- creasing the bulk and juice of the volume, give any detailed account of the modern improve- ments in Neurology, I was obliged to content myself, in most cases, with general reference. I have the honour to be, My Dear Sir, With much esteem, Your obliged and faithful friend and p«pitL PORTOBSI.T.0. 1 J. KIHBY. December, ISlbV.j'INTRODUCTORY VIEW BARCLAY'S NOMENCLATURE. It has been long and justly lamented, that the usual terms of Anatomy, implying position, aspect, and di- rection, are so vague and indefinite, as to be pi-oduc- tive of much ambiguity and confusion in anatomical- descriptions; for, as the aspect of any part of the body must vary in every different position in which this happens to be placed, no term, that is adapted exclu- sively to any one position, can with propriety be em- -ployed as applicable to the rest. Thus what is supe- rior in one position of the body, becomes anterior in another, posterior in a third, and even inferior in a fourth ; what is external in one situation (as of the arm and hand,) is internal in another, &c. If these terms be subject to such ambiguity in describing the structure of the human body, they become much more ambiguous when applied to Comparative Anatomy. A part or organ wh.icb.is superior or inferior in man, be-Xll INTRODUCTORY VIEW OF comes anterior or posterior in quadrupeds, while an~ tenor or posterior in the former, is in the latter superi- or or inferior. The advantages of a Nomenclature, in which t he- same terms should universally apply to the same organ, in all positions of the hody, and in all animals, scarce- ly require to he pointed out ; and we think, that those advantages belong to the Nomenclature, lately pro- posed by Dr Barclay. The terms of this Nomenclature are derived from parts of the hody, which are found in most vertebral animals, and being fixed and determinate, can never: confound or mislead. Some of these terms are gener- al, applying indiscriminately to every part of the ani- mal body; but most of them refer to some particular: region or organ of the body. Of the general terms, the most universal, and per- haps the most useful, is that which respects an imagi- nary plane supposed to be drawn vertically through the* middle of the body, so as to divide it. into two equal and similar halves. This is called the mesial plane y, and that surface of a part ov organ which looks to- wards this plane is said to be mesial, or to have a me- sial aspect. Those which are situated in the opposite direction, or on either side of the plane, are lateral, being dextral or sinistral, according as they lie to the right or left of the mesial plane. Instead of external and internal, usually applied to denote the surface and the deep-seated parts of an organ, Dr Barclay employs peripheral and centralf;; the former denoting the aspect or position at or next the surface, the latter those next the centre of an or- gan or of the body in general.xm Barclay's nomenclature. The particular terms refer to the head 3 the trunk -7 the extremities ; and the sanguiferous system. The terms referring to the head, are derived from the corona or top of the head ; the base of the skull; the 7'nwn, or most protuberant pail at the back of the head ; and the glabella, or space between the eye-brows. The aspect or position of those parts next the corona' are .coronal; that of those next the base, basilar' /'that of those next the glabella, glabellar ; and that of those next the inion, inial. The glabella is not at the greatest rectilineal distance from the inion, a distinction, which belongs to the -chin in man, and the muzzle in most inferior animals. These parts are called'by Dr Barclay anti/iion, and the aspect or po- sition that regards them is called antinial. The terms proper to the trunk are also four ; de- rived from the sternum or breast-bone file dorsum or back ; the atlas or first vertebra of the spine ; and the sacrum or rump-bone. According as parts or surfaces respect one or other of these fixed points, they are sternal, do/sal, atlantal, or sacral. The extremities are atlantal or sacral, according as they are situated next the atlas, or next the sacrum. Each pair of the extremities, and each of their com- ponent parts, have a proximal, and a distal end ; the . former being that nearest the trunk, the latter that most remote from it. Four proper terms belong to the atlantal,-and as many to the sacral extremities. Thus, as the former have a radius, an ulna, an ancon, (or olecranon,) and a thenar (orpalm) ; so in these, the aspects and posi- tions arc radial, ulnar, anconal, and thenal. Again ^ m the sacral extremities, there arc a tibia, a fibula * ?°\!ldi and a P°P*>» (or ham); so the aspects and positions here are tibial, fibular, rotular, and popli-XIV INTRODUCTORY VIEW Of teal. The term volar, in the atlantal extremities, is restricted, as in common anatomical language, to the parte within the palm of the hand ; while plantar, in the sacral extremities, is in like manner restricted to those within the sole of the foot. Thus, the terms proposed hy Dr Barclay for posi- tion and aspect, are in number twenty-three ; viz. Five peculiar to the head ; coronal, basilar, inial, glabellar, and aniinial. Four to the neck, and trunk ; atlantal, sacral, ster- nal, and dorsal. Two common to head, neck, and trunk ; mesial and lateral. Four peculiar to the Atlantal extremities ; radial, ulnar, anconal, and thenal. Four peculiar to the sacral extremities ; tibial, fibu- lar, rotular, and popliteal. Two common to both sets of extremities ; proximal and distal; and, Two common to the whole body and all its parts, peripheral and central. The terras which have jast been enumerated, are adjectives, referring only to position or aspect. They may, if requisite, be converted into general adjectives, bv changing al or ar into en. Thus, radien, ulnen, tibien, fibulen, will denote something belonging to the radius, ulna, tibia, or fibula. They may be converted into adverbs, denoting di- rection, by changing al or ar into ad. Thus, mesiad implies direction towards the mesial plane ; laterad, the opposite direction, or sideivays ; allantad, towards the atlas, in common language upwards ; .vr/r/W, to- wards the sacrum, or doivnwa?*ds ; glabeHad, sternad, and rotulad, imply directions synonymous vc'ithfor-BARCLAY'S NOMENCLATURE. XV wards ; and iniad, dorsad^ and poplitead imply direc- tions analogous to backwards. The sanguiferous system, in warm-blooded animals, comprehends two distinct sets of cavities and vessels j the one set distined to convey the blood to the lungs, for the restoration of those principles or properties, which it had lost during the general circulation ) the other to distribute the blood, after having been thus renovated in the lungs, to the general system. Hence the former set, including veins, a stnue, an auricle, a ventricle, and arteries, are in Dr Barclay's Nomencla- ture, denominated pulmonic, and the blood which they contain, and which is of a dark colour, is termed pul- monic h\oo<\. In the same manner, the latter set of organs, comprehending also veins, a sinus, an auricle, a ventricle, and arteries, are denominated systemic ; and the florid blood, which they contain, is termed systemic blood. It may be proper to remark, that the merit of this Nomenclature consists, not in the novelty cf the terms, but in the more precise and definite application of terms long in use among anatomists, but hitherto employed in a manner so vague and ambiguous, as to mislead the learner in Human Anatomy, and be almost wholly inapplicable to Comparative. As the terms are drawn from parts long known and described in anatomical works, a knowledge of those parts once acquired leads to the ready application and use of the terms. They are the more easy of apprehension to the anatomist, as being accommodated to an established custom among anatomical writers, of describing the body and its parts as a cube or six-sided figure, whose surfaces point up- wards, downwards, backwards, forwards, to the right and to the left ; and whose parts are situated towards the circumference, the centre, or an imaginary plane*XVI INTRODUCTORY VIEW OF, dividing the body into similar halves. It is tin's ima- ginary plane which has furnished the only strictly new aspect in Dr Barclay's Nomenclature/ The uses and advantages of many of these terms will be illustrated by the notes to the following pages, hut to render them more familiar, we shall here con- trast them with the usual terms in the following tabu- lar outline.D Hi o m fa o w 53 O P3- W S3 q M to 9 to I a 13 a I "5! Is a H 1^- nS <S .2 W H 4 PS W i o H u W « ,3 -3 H «J a u •9 * •e a - ^ I A, J*5 13 . 03 H 2, a ca "ft i-S5 - -5* ■8^ 03 3 s s s a "1 a ►2* » hi* 13 S 5 IT** a 13 a .2 p vs o U Oh s Si 03 V 03 13 U Pi 5 T3 a Of. o r* -Co «s» ^ Oh ^ 2 a a "3 a a s H 03 3 3 13 -a K 5 03 , 03 ti5 c ^ B -a Oh !> 03 o H to • * -3 X S hi' C a c « p 73 in <« O 03 -3 rt -3 "a ja« W V a 4 w O no ^ s 11 I E <-, Cr .5 .~ a"« 4S' I S 5 « I 3 c |.| <> « 11 1 § s ° s • = (3s 1.2 3 8 ►S3 O ¥1 M « II K to (A ffl CI o n c a 8 5 M o t I 1 I ■5 tj ~ ^ ti n p H Q M u H W H3 03 3 I T3 2 ca CO cj P CO a U o 13 S o w o & W o S3 co W g • T3 CO o .s .s .o .2 ^3 CO ^5 H3 a, 3 p 3 d •>.° ■a H3 V . I T3 0> d -a B g B a u w p «■ M § § E <J CO CO o P -a ■R i3 O .2 ha si PSV. K PS H < CO <; n & is O 4 53 wa 3 i •5; u "a a .« >o s . <s O o J* t- is ° St *» •r* -a I 5 ^ -S i. «* t? to o S 3 J! •~ £ e5 <u 2 -g ]2»a Jffl "2 ii 1 I S5 .3 "to S. <3 a R to 3 6 «0 T3 § a <5 •■a « p CP e"1 Fh K P< •13 a o 3 a ca a to to s > H U > o •sa. CO o > a cS .o e i a • ■** • u "5 a *• o £ S h 5 ^ "S « a -, e <? a 'a . s .23 a a (5 ^ ^ 5: O G - ~ OJ t« ft, ^ a R o a (J '•si 1 £ 3s a "5 = S - i> co -<j >■ «jJ p a u » ..2 3 .5 = '£ a v <u ~ s <u t> co <! >• < ^ "3 "3 p & | if* P o £ a CO COTABULAR VIEWS OF" THE BONES OF THE HEAD. The Editor is persuaded that the following Table* will be highly acceptable to the young Student, who has any genuine taste for Anatomy. They are extracted principally from Dr Barclay's Lectures on the Skeleton, and are well calculated not only to facilitate the means of acquiring a more mi- nute and accurate knowledge of the Structure of the. Head, but suggest a mode of establishing new and specific distinctions in Natural History, and Comparative Anatomy, and in ascertaining, with the celebrated. Cuvier, the particular Species, of Fossil Heads. BONES OF THE HEAD. The Bones of the Head are divided by Anato- mists into Bones of the "Cranium and Bones of the Face.. The Bones" of the Cranium^ are those of the cavity containing the. Brain ; all the rest belonging to the Head are the bones of the Face. The B ones of the Cranium are eight in number : Four of them single and four of them in pairs. The four single, like all the single Bones of the Skeleton, are in the middle between right and left, and each divisible into similar halves by the Mesial Plane. These bones are termed Ossa Symmetrica. Those in pairs are upon the sides towards right and left, and are Ossa Pari a.BONES OF THE HEA1>. The Single Bones are, The Frontal, The Ethmoidal, The Sphenoidal, and The Occipital. Those in Pairs, The two Parietal and The two Temporal. The Bones of the Face, not reckoning the Teeth, nor what are denominated the Ossa Plana aud Su- perior Spongy, which are parts of the Ethmoidal, amount to fourteen : The two Malar, The two Superior Maxillary, The two Palatal, The two Lacrymal, The two Nasal, The two Inferior Spongy, The Vomer, and The Lower Jaw. II. These Bones, with the assistance of three of the Cran ium, the Frontal, the Ethmoidal, and Sphenoi- a 1, constitute the five following cavities : The two Orbits, The two Nostrils, and The Mouth. FORMATION OF THE ORBITS. Seven enter into the formation of each orhit : The Frontal, The Ethmoidal, and The Sphenoidal into the formation of both ; A .Malar, A Superior Maxillary, A Palatal, and A Lacrymal, each into the formation, of the voit of its side.HONES OF THE HAED. FORMATION OF THE NOSTRILS. Nine enter into the formation of each nostril . The Frontal, The Ethmoidal, The Sphenoidal, and The Vomer into the formation of both ; A Nasal, A Palatal, A Lacrymal, A superior Maxillary, and An Inferior Spongy are confined to the Nob>- tril of their own side. t FORMATION OF THE MOUTH. Exclusive of the teeth which are wanting, or at least concealed at the time of Birth, twenty in num- ber when they are temporary, and thirty-two whej they are permanent, those which enter into the for- mation of the mouth are six, The two superior Maxillary, The two Palatal, The lower Jaw, and a very small portion o i the Pterygoid processes of the Sphenoidal. III. | From the preceding statement it appears, tha-; some of these Bones are confined entirely to one c:i vity and that others enter into the formation o sev, er OF THE BONES OF THE CRANIUM. Five are entirely confined to the Cranium The two Parietal, The two Temporal, and The Occipital.XX 111 BONES OF THE HEAD. The other three, The Frontal, The Ethmoidal, and The Sphenoidal, enter into the formation of the two Orbits, the two Nostrils j and a very small portion of the Sphenoidal into that of the mouth. OF THE BONES OF THE FACE. The two Malar are confined to the Orbits. The two Lacrymal to the Orbits and Nostrils. The two Superior Maxillary and the two Palatal to the Orbits, the Nostrils, and the Mouth. The Vomer, the two I^fftal, and the two Inferior Spongy, to the Nose. The Teeth and the Lower Jaw entirely to th« Mouth. IV. The Bones of the Head may also be arranged ac- cording to the different aspects which they occupy, all the parts of the human body being viewed by ana- tomists as if they were cubes, and had each six sides •r six different aspects. The aspects of the Head are, The Coronal, The Basilar, The Inial, The Glabellar, or Antinial, and the two Tem- poral, or Lateral. ASPECTS OF THE CRANIUM. The Ethmoidal is confined to one aspect, The Basilar. The Sphenoidal extends to three, The Basilar, and The two Temporal or Lateral.BONES OF THIS HEAD. xxiv The Frontal to live, The Coronal, The Basilar, The Glabellar, and The two Temporal or Lateral, The Occipital to two, The Inial, and The Basilar. The Parietal each' to three, The Coronal, The Inial, and A Lateral or Temporal. The Temporal each to two, A Lateral, and The Basilar. ASPECTS OF THE ORBITS. The Frontal Bone forms the greatest part of theip Coronal Aspect, and a small portion of their Lateral and Mesial. The Ethmoidal, a large portion of their Mesial As- pect, and a small portion of their Basilar. The Sphenoidal, a large portion of the Lateral As- pect, and a small portion of the Coronal, and Inial. The Malar, a large portion of the Lateral Aspect, and a portion of the Basilar. The superior Maxillary, the largest portion of the Ba- silar Aspect, and a small portion of the Mesial. The Palatal, a very small portion of the Basilar and Mesial. The Lacryraal, a portion of the Mesial. ASPECTS OF THE NOSTRILS. The Frontal Bone forms a portion of their Coronal and Glabellar Aspects.BONES OF THE HEAD-. The Ethmoidal, of their Coronal, Mesial, and La- teral. The Sphenoidal, of the Coronal, Inial, and Lateral. The Nasal, of the Glabellar or Anfinial. The superior-Maxillary, of the Lateral and Basilar. The Lacrymal, of the Lateral.' The inferior Spongy, of the Lateral. The Vomer, of the Mesial. ASPECTS OF THE MOUTH The superior Maxillary constitutes a portion of the Lateral, Coronal, and Antinial Aspects. The inferior Maxillary, of the Lateral and Antinial. The Palatal,, of the Coronal. A small portion~of the Pterygoid Process of the Sphe- noidal, a part of the Coronal and Lateral. The Teeth, a part of the Lateral and Antinial. v. In different Species these Bones vary their forms,., their aspects, their number of connexions, and the mode and number by which they enter into the forma- tion of these different Cavities ; and hence become a source of those important specific distinctions, which-, in Natural History and Comparative Anatomy, are so useful and necessary in. ascertaining the species ofr Fossil Heads. THEIR GENERAL CONNEXIONS. The Frontal is articulated with four of the Cranium-} The two Parietal, The Ethmoidal, and The Sphenoidal. With eight of the Face ; The two Malar,BONES OF THE HEAD. XXYJ The two Nasal, The two superior Maxillary, and The two Lacrimal. The Ethmoidal with two of the Cranium -y The Frontal, and The Sphenoidal. With nine of the Face ; The two Lacxymal-, The two Nasal, The two superior Maxillary, " . The two Palatal, and The Vomer. The' Sphenoidal with seven of the Cranium j. The two Temporal, The two Parietal, The Frontal, The Occipital, and The Ethmoidal. With seven of the Face j The two Malar, The two superior Maxillary, The two Palatal, and The Vomer. The Occipital with five of the Cranium j The two Parietal, The two Temporal, and The Sphenoidal. With none of the Face, but with one of the Vertebra The Atlas. The Temporal each with three of the Cranium ; A Parietal, The Occipital, and The Sphenoidal. WTith two of the Face; A. Malar, and The inferior Maxillary.XXV ft BONES OF THE HEAD. Each Temporal, containing besides, in its cavity called the Tympanum, four small bones, the Malleus, the Incus, the Os Orbiculaie, and the Stapes. \ The Parietal each with five of the Cranium ; The Frontal, The Occipital, The Sphenoidal, A Temporal, and Its fellow of the opposite side-. With none of the Face. VI. CONNEXIONS IN THE ORBITS. The Frontal, (see its general Connexions,') articulated in the Orbits with six j The Sphenoidal^ The Ethmoidal, The two Malar, and. The two Lacrymal. The Sphenoidal, (see its general Connexions,') is artiett- lated in the Orbits with six ; The Frontal, The Ethmoidal, The two Malar, The two Palatal. The Ethmoidal, (see its general Connexions,) is arti- culated in the Orbits with seven ; The Frontal, The two Lacrymal, The two Maxillary, The two Palatal. The superior Maxillary, (see its general Connexions,) is articulated with ten j Its Fellow,BONES OF THE HEAD. x$vm The Fiont.il, The Ethmoidal, The Sphenoidal, A Malar, A Lacrimal, A Nasal, A Palatal, An inferior Spongy, and The Vomer. In the Orbit with four ^. . The Sphenoidal, The Ethmoidal, A Malar, and A Lacrymal. The Palatal, in its general Connexions, is articolated with six ; Its Fellow, The Ethmoidal, The Sphenoidal, A Superior Maxillary, An inferior Spongy, and The V omer. In the Orbit with three ; The Ethmoidal, The Sphenoidal, and A Maxillary. The Lacrymal, in its general Connexions, is artic\r. la ted with four j The Frontal, The Ethmoidal, A superior Maxillary, An inferior Spon^v- In the Orbit with three ; The Frontal, The Ethmoidal, and A Maxillary.xx ix 33ONES OF THE HEAD. ?he Malar, in its general Connexions, is articulated with four; A Temporal, The Frontal, The Sphenoidal, and A superior Maxillary. In the Orbit with three ; The Frontal, The Sphenoidal, and A superior Maxillary. CONNEXIONS IN THE NOSTRILS, The Frontal, (see its Connexions in the Cranium and Orbits,- is articulated in the Nostrils with seven ; The two Nasal, The two Maxillary, The two Lacrymal, and The Ethmoidal. rhe Sphenoidal, (see its Connexions in the Cranium and Orbits,) is articulated in the Nostrils with six, The two Maxillary, The two Palatal, ' The Ethmoidal, and The Vomer. Fhe Ethmoidal, (see its Connexions in the Cranium and Orbits,) is articulated in the Nostrils wil-lv eleven ; The Frontal, The Sphenoidal, The two Nasal, The two Maxillary, _ The two Lacrymal, The two Palatal, and The Vomer.XXX BONES OF THE HEAD. A Superior Maxillary, The Maxillary, {see its Connexions in one of i ■ Orbits,) is articulated in one of the Nostrils w nine, Its Fellow, - The Frontal, The Ethmoidal, The Sphenoidal, A Palatal, A Lacrymal, A Nasal, An inferior Spongy, and The Vomer. The Palatal, {see its Connexions in one of the Orbiti is articulated in one of the Nostrils with six. Its Fellow, The Ethmoidal, The Sphenoidal, A Maxillary, An inferior Spongy, and The Vomer. The Lacrymal, {see its Connexions in one of the 0 i bttSj) is articulated in one of the Nostrils with thre The Ethmoidal, A Superior Maxillary, An Inferior Spongy. The Nasal, entirely confined to the cavity of the Nos> are each articulated in one of the Nostrils with fiV Its Fellow, 1 The Frontal, The Ethmoidal, A superior Maxillary, and The Vomer. Inferior Spongy, entirely confined to the cavity of tr Nose, are each" articulated in one of the Nostril with three,XXXI BONES OF THE HEAD. The Superior Maxillary. A Palatal, A Lacrymal. rhe Vomer, confined entirely to the Nose, is articu- lated with six, The two Superior Maxillary, The two Palatal, The Ethmoidal, The Sphenoidal. CONNEXIONS IN THE MOUTH. rhe superior Maxillary, (see its Connexions in the Orbits and Nostrils,) is articulated in the mouth, with Its Fellow, A Palatal, and Teeth. The Inferior Maxillary, or Lower Jaw, confined en- tirely to the Mouth, is articulated only with The two Temporal, and Teeth. rhe Palatal, (see its Connexions in Orbits mid Nos* tri/s,) is articulated in the Mouth, with Its Fellow, andTO THE STUDENTS OF ANATOMY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH. (PREFIXED TO THE SEVENTH EDITION.). GENTLEMEN,. When this Osteology was first printed in 1726,Id tH not know that Albinus, Winslow, and Palfyn, were: to publish descriptions of the bones j otherwise my papers probably would have remained yet undelivered to the printers. I however flatter myself, that this- Essay has been of use to the gentlemen who did me: the honour to attend my lectures, by assisting them to understand my sense and representation of things in this fundamental part of anatomy ; and that it hasi possibly been of more advantage to them than a more complete work from an abler hand, unless my demon- strations had been in the order and method of such an author. This view of your improvement, Gentlemen, is a. prevailing argument with me to cause this Essay to be reprinted ; and you cannot reasonably blame me, if I likewise acknowledge another motive for it, which aiorc particularly relates to myself. In a new editionxxxiii in author, has an opportunity of making his works nore correct, complete, and consequently acceptable ;o the public, who may perhaps be indulgent enough ;o think this little treatise not altogether useless j lince more reasoning on the structure and morbid iheerwmena of bones is to be foand in it, than in the ither writers, who have confined themselves almost entirely to the descriptive or proper anatomical part ;f the Osteology. I have here kept to the plan of the former editions, >y first considering, in the order that seemed to me nost natural and methodical, every thing which I bought necessary to be known concerning bones in general ; and, in the second part, I have described he several bones composing the skeleton. The bones of adults are what I principally endea- our to describe ; but I have added as much of the sleogenca as I think serviceable in the practice of iliysic and surgery. That little might he omitted of what was formerly one on this subject, I have taken all the assistance I ould from books ; but have never asserted any ana- omical fact on their authority, without consulting na- ure, from which all the descriptions are made ; and herefore the quotations from such books serve only to 0 justice to the authors, who have remarked any bing in the structure of the parts that was commonly mitted, and to initiate you in the history of anatomy; k'hich I once proposed to make complete, so far as re- ated to this subject : But not being able to procure everal books, and being sensible how many more may laVe never come to my knowledge, I laid aside this lesign, on purpose omitted many I could have inserted, md in some places I have changed an older author for 1 later one, who has more fully or clearly describedxx xiv what I treated of. Besides anatomists, I have alsr named several other authors to confirm my reasoning by practical cases j of which it is not to he supposed my own experience could furnish a sufficient variety. You will readily observe, that I quote no passages with a view to criticise or condemn them. This pre caution of giving no offence, is very necessary in thoti A\ho are sufficiently conscious of their heing liable t(. lay themselves open to just censure j and it prevent?.: occasions of useless wrangling, in which generally boil parties arc losers, and the public has little advantage In this treatise I always make use of the most com rnon name of each part, and have put the synonimou ■ names to be met with in books at the foot of the page that the reading might be smoother, and you migh i consult them at jour leisure to assist you in under- standing different authors. The descriptions and reasoning are here blended without which I always find young anatomists aiv soon disgusted with authors : Their imaginations can not follow a long chain of descriptions, especially wbeir they are not taught at the same time the uses whicH the described parts serve: Their minds must hav.| some relaxation, by a mixture of reasoning, whicl never misses to strike the fancy agreeably, and raise a strong desire to understand the principles on whicl it depends. The plienmnena of diseases are all deduced in thiol Essay from the structure of the parts, by way of corol- " laries and questions j which such an anatomical worl^ confined me to. And this method has otherwise :i good effect : For, when one meets with an useful pro position, and is obliged to employ a little thought tt< find out its solution, the impression it makes is deeper and he acquires a fondness for it, as being in part hit'XX XV •vvn discovery. My pupils have frequently assured me, that they could, with very small reflection, trace out the whole reasoning from which my conclusions were drawn ; I hope their successors will also think this an agreeable manner of being instructed. Those gentlemen who desired I would add the lec- tures which I pronounce in my colleges as a commen- tary upon the text, where the diseases are mentioned, will, I persuade mvself, excuse me for not complying with their desire, when they consider the design of this is to be a school-book, and how great the difference is between instructing youth in private, and pretending to inform the public. Art. xxiv. vol. v. of Medical Essays and Observations, published in this place, is one of these lectures which I gave as a commentary on the paragraph (p. 9.) concerning the different kinds of caries *. In this edition, I have corrected the mistakes and obscure passages which I discovered in the former, and in some places I have made the descriptions more full and exact, aiming all I could to shun unnecessary minuteness on the one hand, and a blameabie inaccu- racy on the other : Whether I have bit that just me- dium, is what you and the public must now judge. I am still of opiuion, that figures of the bones would at any rate have been unnecessary in a book that is intended to be illustrated and explained by the origi- nals themselves ; but would be much more so now, when my late ingenious friend Mr Cheselden, Dr Al- binus, and Mr Sue % have published such elegant ones. * This Commentary is published in the quarto edition of the Doctor's works, p. 285. E. f Tmitc d'ostcolngie, iraduit de 1'Anglois de M. Monro, se- eondc pailic.'XXXVi ou have advantageous opportunities in this place of studying all parts of medicine, under the professors of its different branches in the.University, and of see- ing the practice of pharmacy, surgery, and physic, with our surgeon-apothecaries, and in the Royal Infirmary, where the diseased poor are carefully treated. These your interest, and, I hope, your inclinations, will lead you, Gentlemen., so to improve, as that they may be- come the happy means of your making a considerable figure in your several stations. Whatever assistance is in my power towards such a desirable event, shall be given with the greatest pleasure by Your humble servant, ALEX. MONRO.THE ANATOMY OF THE HUMAN BONES. PART I. OF THE BONES IN GENERAL. 33 ones are covered by a membrane, named on that Per account Periosteum*, which is so necessary to them, that we must examine its texture and uses, before we can understand their structure. The periosteum, as well as most other membranes, can be divided into layers of fibres. The exterior f ones, composed of the fibres of the muscles connect* ed to the bones, vary in their number, size, and di- rection, and consequently occasion a very great dif- ference in the thickness and strength of the perios- teum of different bones, and even of the different parts of the same bone. The internal J layer is every where nearly of a similar structure, and has its fibres in the same direction with those of the bone to which they are contiguous. Ought not then the name pe* nosleum to be applied, strictly speaking, only to this * Membrana circumossalis, omentum ossibus imposituai. T Peripheral of Barclay. E. X Central Bard. E. BOP THE BONES IN GENERAL. s i. 9. internal layer, to which the others are joined in an uncertain manner and number ? Some authors (a) endeavour to prove the internal layer of fibres of the periosteum to be derived from the dura mater : For, say they, since the membrane covering the skull is plainly a production or conti- nuation of the dura mater, which passes out between the sutures; and since there are muscles on the head, as well as in other parts, which might furnish a periosteum, it is needless to assign different origins to membranes which have the same texture and uses. They add further, in proof of this doctrine, that the periosteum extends itself along the ligaments of the articulations from one bone to another; and there- fore is continued from its origin over all the bones of the body.—While anatomists were fond of the hypothesis of all membranes being derived from one or other of the two that cover the brain, a dispute of this kind might be thought of consequence : But now that the hypothesis is neglected as useless, it is needless to examine the arguments for or against it. Except where muscles, cartilages, or ligaments are inserted into the periosteum, its external surface is connected to the surrounding parts by thin cellular membranes, which can easily be stretched consider- ably, but shorten themselves whenever the stretch- ing force is removed. When these membranes are cut off or broken, they collapse into such a small space, that the surface of the periosteum seems smooth and equal. When we attempt to tear off the periosteum from bones, we see a great number of white threads pro- duced from the membrane into them ; and, after a successful injection of the arteries with a red liquor, numerous vessels are not only seen on the periosteum, (6), but most of the fibres sent from the membrane (a) Havers, Osteolog. nov. disc. I. p. 16. (6) Iiuysch. Epist. 5. tab. 5. fis- 1. 2. epist. 8. tab. 9. fig.OF THE BONES IN GENERAL, s B 2 :> the bone, shew themselves to be vessels entering ;, with the injected liquor in them ; and when they re broken, by tearing off the periosteum, the sur- ice of the bone is almost covered with red points. The veins corresponding to- these arteries are jmetimes to be seen in subjects that die with their essels full of blood ; though such numerous rami- cations of them, as of the arteries, can seldom be emonstrated, because few of them naturally contain. )loured liquors, and such liquors can with difficulty e injected into them. This however is sometimes )ne (a). The great sensibility of the periosteum in the deep- sated species of paronychia, in exostoses, nodi, tophi, id gummata, from a lues venerea, or whenever-this embrane is in an inflamed state, is a sufficient proof lat it is well provided with nerves, though they are jrhaps too small to be traced upon it; and there- re one cannot well determine, whether they are nt along with the arteries in the common way, or e derived from the tendinous fibres of the muscles cpanded on the periosteum (b). Vessels also pass through the periosteum to the larrow ; of which more hereafter. And frequently uscles, ligaments, or cartilages, pierce through the iriosteum, to be inserted into the bones. The chief uses of the periosteum are : 1. To al- Its w the muscles, when they contract or are stretch- 1, to move and slide easily upon the bones ; the nooth surface of this membrane preventing any ill ?ects of their friction upon each other. 2. To :ep in due order, and to support the vessels in their issage to the bones. 3. By being firmly braced i the bones, to assist in setting limits to their in« (a) Sue TraitS d'osteologie, traduit de l'Anglois de Mr. Monro, ote m page 9. (J) See the dispute about the sensibility of this and of other embranes m Z.mmerman. Dissert, de irritabilit.—Act. Got- )g. vol. 2. Haltarsur la nature sensible et irritable. Whytt's 26.,034g' CSSay IL Reimar" DiSSertt de fuDS° articulor»4 OP THE BONES IN GENERAL. crease, and to check their overgrowth. 4. To strengthen tlie conjunction of the hones with their epiphyses, ligaments, and cartilages, which are easi- ly separated in young creatures, when this mem- brane is taken away. 5. To afford convenient ori- gin and insertion to several muscles which are fixed to this membrane. And, lastly, to warn us when any injury is offered to the parts it covers; which, being insensible, might otherwise be destroyed with- out our knowledge, or endeavouring to procure a re- medy. When the cellular substance connecting the pe- riosteum to the surrounding parts is destroyed, these parts are fixed to that membrane, and lose the slid., ing motion they had upon it; as we see daily in is*, sues, or any other tedious suppurations near a bone. When the vessels which go from the periosteum tc the bones are broken or eroded, a collection of liquoi; is made between them, which produces a sordid ulce | ©r rotten bone. This is often the case after fracture; of bones, and inflammations of the periosteum, o. after small-pox, measles, spotted fevers, and erysipa las. Do not the disorders of the periosteum cominj rather along with or soon after the cutaneous thai other diseases, indicate some similarity of structur in the periosteum and skin ? Boues The Bones are the most hard and solid parts c the body, and, as all other parts where large vessel do not enter, are generally of a white colour; onl in a living creature they are blueish, which is owm to the blood in the small vessels under their surfaci The less therefore and fewer the vessels are, an the thicker and firmer the bony surface covering tl vessels is, the bones are whiter. Hence the bon« of adults are whiter than those of children ; and, i both young and old, the white colour of differei bones, or of the several parts of the same bone, always in proportion to their vessels and solidities circumstances which ought to be regarded by su geons, when they are to judge of the condition bones laid bare.OF THE BONES IN GENERAL. 3 Bones are composed of a great many plates*, each Intimate of which is made up of fibres or strings united by structuw smaller fibrils (a) ; which being irregularly disposed, and interwoven with the other larger fibres, make a reticular work. This texture is plainly seen in the bones of foetuses, which have not their parts closely compacted, and in the bones of adults which have been burnt, long exposed to the weather, or whose composition has been made loose by diseases. The chinks, which are generally made according to the direction of the larger fibres of bones that have un- dergone the action of fire, or of the weather, shew the greater strength of these than of the fibres which connect them. Numerous accurate observations of the different times in which exfoliations are made from the sides or ends of similar bones, might bid fair to determine what is the proportional force of co- hesion in the two sorts of fibres. The plates are said (6) to be firmly joined to each other by a great number of claviculi, or small bony processes, which, rising from the inner plates, pierce through some, and are fixed into the more external ones. Of these nails, four kinds, viz. the perpendi- cul'ar, oblique, headed, and crooked, have been de- scribed : But in bones fitly prepared, I could see on- ly numerous irregular processes rising out from the plates (c). Though the exterior part of bones is composed of firm compact plates, yet they are all more or less ca- vernous internally. In some (e. g. middle thin part of the scapida and os iliuiri) the solid sides are brought so near, that little cavity can be seen ; and in others (middle of os humeri, femoris, &c.) the cavities are so large, that such bones are generally esteemed to be hollow or fistular. But the internal spongy tex- * Squamae, bractae, laminae. ('«■) M^lpigh. Anat. plant. & oper. posthum. (fi) Gagliard. Anat. ossium. uov. invent, illustrat. cap. 1. obs. 2. (c) Malpigh. oper. posthum. Q 3(a) Gagliard. Anafc. ossium, cap. I. obs. 4, 5, 6, 7. a OV THE BONES IN GENERAL. ture is evident in young animals ; and some of if may be seen to remain in those of greatest age, wheat bones are cautiously opened, after they have beem kept so long as to be free of the oil they contain, or after being burnt. This spongy cavernous internal part of bones, is generally called their cancelli or Lattice-work, andl is formed in the following manner: The plates ares firmly joined about the middle of the bone; but as- they are extended towards its ends, the more inter- nal plates separate from the exterior, and stretch oufct - their fibres towards the axis of the bone, where they are interwoven with the fibres of other plates that have been sent off in the same way. Seeing the; plates are thus constantly going off, the solid sides of the bones must become thinner, and the lattice- work must be thicker and stronger towards their ends.. This is evident in many of them, where the solid, sides of their middle are very thick, and the cancelli. are scarcely observable; whereas, at the ends, where: their diameter is greatest, the solid walls or sides- are not thicker than paper, and the cancelli are nu- merous and large enough to fill up the whole space: Jeft between the sides. The twisting and windings which these cancelli make, and the interstices which they leave, differ, considerably in figure, number, and size; and there- fore form little cells, which are as different, but com- municate with each other. Some writers (a) minute-. 3y remark these different appearances of the cancelli,, after they begin to separate from the plates; and from thence distinguish them into wrinkled, perfo~ rated, and net-like. The cancelli sustain the membranous bags of the marrow which are stretched upon them, and thereby hinder these membranous parts from being torn or removed out of their proper places, in the violent mo- tions and different postures in which the bones are employed. This support which the cancelli afford7 OF THE BONES IN GENERAL. the marrow, also saves its membranes and vessels, in the lower parts of the bones, from being compress- ed by the weight of the marrow above. The depressions between the fibres of the exter- nal plates of bones appear like so many furrows on their surface, into each of which the periosteum en- ters ; by which the surface of contact, consequently the cohesion, between it and the bone, is consider- ably increased, and a greater number of vessels is, sent from it into the bone, than if it was a plain sur- face. Both on the ridges and furrows, numerous little pits or orifices of canals are to be seen, by which the vessels pass to and from the bones *. After a successful injection, the arteries can be Vessels, traced in their course from the pits to the plates and fibres ; and, in sawing, cutting, or rasping the bones of living creatures, these vessels discover themselves, by the small drops of blood which then ooze out from the most solid part of the bones. But the clearest demonstration of the intimate dis- tribution of these small arteries, is. to observe the effect of" such a tinging substance as can retain its colour, when swallowed, digested, and mixed with the blood of any living animal, and, at the same time, has particles small enough to be conveyed into the vessels of the bones ; such is rubia iincto* rum, madder root (a) : For we see the gradual ad- vances which this tincture makes from the perios- teum into the more internal parts of the bones, and how universally the distribution of the liquors is made, the whole bony substance being tinged.- The arteries are larger near each end than at the middle of the large bones that are much moved ; be- cause they not only serve the bony plates near the • On this part of the subject, see Scarpa De pemtiori ossium Btructura. E. (a) Philosoph. transact, num. 442. art. 8. num. 443. art. 2. num. 457, art, 4.——Mem. de l'acad. des sciences. 1739, 1742. 8 48 OP THE BONES IN GENERAL. ends, but pass through them to the marrow.——As animals advance in age, the arteries of the bones become less capacious; as is evident, 1. From the bones of adults having less blood in them than those of children have. 2. From many of them becom- ing incapable, in old age, of admitting the colour- ed powders used in injections, which easily pass in youth. And, 3. From the bones of old creatures being more difficultly tinged with madder than those of young ones. If authors have not mistaken, the arteries of bones have sometimes become very large (a). We may conclude from arteries being accompanied with veins so far as we can trace them in every other part of the body, that there are also veins in the bones ; nay, the veins of bones can sometimes be injected and then seen (6). Nerves. The bones of a living animal are so insensible, that they can be cut, rasped, or burnt, without put- ting the creature to pain, and the nerves distribute ed in their substance cannot be shewn by dissection ; from which it might be inferred that they have no nerves distributed to them : But the general tenor of nature, which bestows nerves on all the other parts, should prevent our drawing such a conclu- sion. And if sensibility is a sure proof of nerves en- tering into the composition of any part, as it is ge- nerally allowed to be, we have sufficient evidence of nerves here in the bones ; for the granulated red flesh which sprouts out from them, after an ampu- tation of a limb, or performing the operation of the trepan, or after an exfoliation, is exquisitely sensible: And, in some ulcers of bones, where the periosteum was all separated, the patient suffered racking pain, if the bone was touched with a rough instrument; nor was he free from pain after the bone was perforated (c), (a) Diemerbroelc. Anat. lib. 9. cap. 1. Mery. Hist de. Vacad. des sciences, H04. (I) Sue trad, d'osteolog, p. 9. . (t) Nicol. Masla, lib. inhod. anat. cap. 30.OP THE BONES IN GENERAL. 9 B 5 —-The reason why the nerves of rigid hard bones become insensible, is, That all nerves mast have a con- siderable degree of flexibility at the part where ob- jects are applied, otherwise it cannot be affected by their impressions. We see this illustrated in a very common analogous case ; the growth of a new nail: When the former one has suppurated off, the thin membrane which first appears, is-exquisitely sensi- ble ; but gradually becomes dull in its sensation, till it can be cut or scraped, without causing pain, after it is formed into a hard naif. From what has been said of the vessels of bones, Growth ana it is evident, that there is a constant circulation ofD"ay. fluids in every part of them ; and that there is a per- petual waste and renewal of the particles which com- pose the solid fibres of bones, as well as of other parts of the body ; the addition from the fluids ex- ceeding the waste during the growth of the bones ; the renewal and waste keeping pretty near par in adult middle age; and the waste exceeding the- sup- ply from the liquors in old age; as is demonstrable from their weight: For each bone increases in weight, as a person approaches to maturity; continues of nearly the same weight till old age begins, and then becomes lighter. The specific gravity of the so- lid sides, on the contrary, increases by age ; for then they become more hard, compact, and dense. In consequence of this, the bones of old people are thin- ner and firmer in their sides, and have larger cavities than those of young persons. The vascular texture of bones must make them Morbid ap- subject to obstructions, ecchymoses, ulcers, gangrenes, ''"j™06/ an,d-most other diseases with which the softer parts are affected; and therefore there may be a greater variety of caries than is commonly described (a.) Hence we can account for the following appear* ances.. (a) Edinburgh Medical Essays and Obs. vol. 5. art. 25.10 OF THE BONES IN GENERAL. Harmorrhagics from fungous flesh rising out from the most solid part of a cut bone (a). The regular alternate elevation and subsiding, or apparent pulsation, frequently to be seen in some of the cells of a carious bone. Cells resembling cancelli, sometimes seen in the part of a bone, which, in a natural state, is the most solid and firm [b). A bone as a tube including another bone within it (c) Canals con- On the internal surface of the solid parts of bones, taming there are orifices of canals, which pass outwards through Marrow. tjje plates to open into other canals that are in a lon- gitudinal direction, from which other transverse pas- sages go out to terminate in other longitudinal canals; and this structure is continued through the whole substance of bones, both these kinds of canals be- coming smaller gradually as they approach the outer surface (d). These canals are to be seen to the best advantage in a bone burnt till it is white: When it is broken transversely, the orifices of the longitudinal canals are in view ; and when we separate the plates, the transverse ones are to be observed. Here how- ever we are in danger of believing both these sorts of canals more numerous than they really are; because the holes made by the processes connecting the plates of bones have the appearance of the transverse (e), and the passages for the blood vessels resemble the longitudinal canals. I do not know how we are to- keep free of error about the transverse canals; but think we may distinguish between the two kinds of longitudinal ones ; for the passages of the vessels are largest near the external suface of the bone, and every transverse section of them is circular ; whereas the (a) Medical Essays, vol. 4. art. 21.- \b) Ruysch. Thes. 8. num. 8. Thes. 16, num. 179, (c) Idem, ibid. id) Havers Osteolog. nov. p. 43. (f) Morgagn. Advers. 2. animad. 25.11 OF THE BONES IN GENERAL. longitudinal canals are largest near the cancelli, and their transverse sections appear to me of a flat oval figure, which may be owing to the different momentum of the fluids conveyed in them. The situation of the larger longitudinal canals, and of the passages of the larger vessels, makes a bone appear more dense and compact in the middle of its solid sides, than towards its outer and inner surfaces, where it is spongy. We see marrow contained in the larger transverse and longitudinal canals just now described, and thence judge that it passes also into the smaller ones. The drops of ©il which we discover with a micro- scope every where on the surface of a recent bone fractured transversely, and the oozing of oil through the most solid bones of a skeleton, which renders them greasy and yellow, are a confirmation of the use of these canals. Of what advantage this distri- bution of the marrow through the substance of bones is, will be mentioned when the nature and use of this animal oil is inquired into. Most bones have one or more large oblique canals formed through their sides for the passage of the medullary vessels, which are to be described after- wards. Bones exposed to a strong fire in chemical vessels, are resolved, in the same manner as the other parts of animals, into phlegm, spirit, volatile salt, fetid oil, and a black caput mortuum. But the proportion of these principles varies according to the age, solidities, and other circumstances of bones. Young bones yield the largest proportion of phlegm ; spongy bones afford most oil, and solid ones give most salt and black residuum. Though this residuum can scarcely be changed by the force of fire while it is in close ves- sels ; yet, when it is burnt in an open fire, the tena- cious oil to which it owes its black colour, is forced away, and a white earth is left that has little or no fixed salt in it. This earth seems to be the proper constituent solid part of bones, and the other princi- b6OF THE BONES IN GENERAL. pies give it firmness and tenacity: For the quan- tity of the earth is so great, that after all the other principles are separated from a bone, its former shape and size remain (a) ; but it is very brittle till it is moistened with water or oil, when it recovers some tenacity. The increase of the proportion of earth in old people's bones, is one reason of their being more brittle than those of young people are*. Lest any imagine the salts and oils of bones, while in a natural state, to be of the same acrid kind with those obtained from them by the chemical analysis, it is to be observed, that these principles may be ex-« tracted from bones in the form of a very mild jelly, by boiling them in water. Uses of The bones sustain and defend the other parts of Bones. the body. Internal Bones are lined within, as well as covered exter- Periosteum. nally, with a membrane ; which is therefore com- monly called Periosteum Internum. The i?itei nal periosteum is an extremely fine mem- brane ; nay frequently it has a loose reticular tex- ture ; and therefore is compared by some to the ar- achnoid coat of the spinal marrow: so that we can- not expect, to divide it into layers as we can divide the external periosteum. We can however observe its processes entering into the transverse pores of the bones, where probably they are continued to form the immediate canals for the marrow distributed through the substance of the bones; and along with them vessels are sent, as from the external periosteum, into (a) Havers Osteolog. nov. disc. 1. p. 32. " Such is the chemical analysis of bones by fire, as given in the former editions ; but the analysis of animal substances by modern chemists, has superseded the statements of the ear- lier experimenters. Bones are now found to ,'be composed of gelatine, animal oil, and earthy salts, which are chiefly phos- phate and carlonate of lime. In 100 parts of dried human adult bones, there are about 24 of gelatine, 64 ofphosphuie of lime, and 2 of carlonate of liim> E.OF THE BONES IN GENERAL. 13 the bone (a). These processes being of a very de- licate texture, the adhesion of this membrane to the bone is so small, that it separates commonly more easily from the bone than from the marrow which-it contains : Wherefore, one might call it the common membrane of the marrow, rather than by the name it now has. But whether the one or the other de- signation ought to be given it,, is not worth a dis- pute. From the internal surface of the internal perios* teum, a great number of thin membranes is produced ; which, passing across the cavity, unite with others of the same kind, and form so many distinct bags, which communicate with each other; and these again are Subdivided into communicating vesicular cells, in which the marrow is contained. Hence it is that the marrow, when hardened, and viewed with a microscope, appears like a cluster of small pearls ; and that the hardened marrow of bones buried long under ground, or laid some time in water, and then dried, is granulous (b). This texture is much the same with what obtains in the other cellular parts of the body, where fat is collected ; only that the cells containing the marrow are smaller than those of the tunica adiposa, or cellulosa elsewhere, which is probably owing to their being inclosed in the bones, where they are not so much stretched or extended as in other parts. The Marrow is the oily part of the blood, separ- Marro% ated by small arteries, and deposited in these cells. Its colour and consistence may therefore vary accord- ing to the state of the vessels, and their distribution on the membranes of the cells. The marrow, as well as the other fat of the body, chemically analyzed, yields, besides oil and water, a considerable proportion of an acid liquor, but no alkali (c). This may be the reason of its being less (a) Winslow Exposition anat. des os frais, § 82, 83. (5) Ruysch Thesaur. 9. num. 2. et Advers. dec. 111. obs. 9. (c) Grutzmaker Dissert, de ossium medulla. Haller Ele- ment, phytiolog. lib. 4. sect. 4.14 OF THE BONES IN GENERAL. putrescent than the blood or most other parts of ani- mals (a), which is a necessary quality in a substance that is constantly exposed to a considerable degree of heat, and is more in a stagnating condition than the other liquors. Secerning Besides the arteries, which I mentioned already, Arteries, p. 8. to be sent from the bones to the marrow, there is at least one artery for each bone; several bones have more, whose principal use is to convey and secern this oily matter. After these arteries have pierced the solid side of a bone, they are divided into several branches ; wh.:h soon are distributed every where on the internal periosteum, and afterwards spread their branches inwards on the medullary cells, and outwards through the tables of the bone. The blood, which remains after the secretion of the marrow, is returned by proper veins, which are collected from the membranes into one or two large trunks, to pass out at the same holes or passages at which the artery or arteries enter. The general rule of the small vessels decreasing in their capacities as animals advance in age, to which many phenomena in the animal economy are owing, obtains here : For though the trunks of the medullary vessels enlarge as animals turn older; yet the smaller branches become smaller; as is evi- dent from injections, which cannot be made to pass so far in these vessels of adults as of children. Hence the marrow is bloody in children, oily and balmy in mid lie age, and thin and watery in old people. By experiments made on the marrow, when bones of living animals are opened or cut through (b), and from the racking pain with which suppurations with- in bones are frequently attended, we have sufficient proof that the membranes here are sensible, and con- sequently have nerves distributed to them. Hip- (a) Pringle Append, to camp diseases, exper. 47. (&) Du Verney, Memoires de l'acad. des sciences, 1700,OF THE BONES IN GENERAL. pocrates (a) might therefore say justly, that a wound penetrating into the cavity of a bone may produce a delirium. The vessels of the marrow, wrapt up in one com- mon coat from the periosteum, pass through the bones by proper canals; the most considerable of which are about the middle of each bone, and are very ob- lique. Sometimes these vessels continue at a little distance in their passage when the canal is divided by a small bony partition or two. From the structure of the contents of the bones, we may judge how these parts, as well as others, may be subject to cedema, phlegmon, erysipelas, sckirr- hus, &c. and may thence be led to a cure of each, be- fore the common consequence, putrefaction, takes place, and frequently occasions the loss of the limb, if not of the patient. The marrow is of very considerable use to the Uses of t: bones ; for by entering their transverse canals, and Marrow, passing from them into the longitudinal ones, it is communicated to all the plates, to soften and connect their fibres, whereby they are preserved from becom- ing too brittle; as we see they do in burnt bones, or those long exposed to the air; in people labouring under old age, pox, or scurvy: In all which cases, the oil is either in too little quantity, or has its na- tural good qualities changed for worse ones. Besides this advantage which the substance of bones has from the marrow, their articulations are said (b) to receive no less benefit from it : for it is thought that the marrow passes into the articular cavities, through the holes which are in the bones near the large joints. And, as a proof of this, it is alleged, that butchers, upon seeing the greater or lesser quantity of marrow, in the bones of cows, can (o) Aphorism. § 7. aph. 24. (l>) Joan de Muralto Vade Mecum anat, exercit. 5. § 3. Havers Osteolog. nov. disc, 3. p. 179.16 OF THE BONES IN GENERAL. tell whether they have travelled far or little before they were slaughtered. When the marrow, after having served the uses mentioned, is reassumed into the mass of blood, (as it is continually, in common with all other secreted liquors that have not passages formed for conveying them nut. of the hnrly). it Corrects the too great acri- mony communicated to the saline particles of our fluids by their circulation and heat; in the same manner as lixivial salts are blunted by oil in making soap. Hence, in acute diseases, the marrow, as well as the other fat of the body, is quickly wasted, but must be immediately supplied by liquors from the vessels ; seeing the cells within the bones, which have no assistance to their contraction from the pressure of the atmosphere, cannot collapse, as the tela cetlidaris under the skin does, when the liquor in its cells is absorbed; the bones therefore are al- ways full. Morbid ap- Since it is the nature of all oil to become thin and pearances rancid when exposed long to heat, and bones have explained. mucn 6il in their firm hard substance, we may know why an ungrateful smell, and dark coloured thin ichor, proceed more from corrupted bones than from other parts of the body ; and we can understand the reason of the changes of colour which bones under- go, '_according to their different degrees of mortifica- tion. Hence likewise we may learn the cause of a spina ventosa, and of the difficulty of curing all caries of bones proceeding from an obstruction, and con- sequent putrefaction of the marrow ; and of the quick pulse, thirst, and hectic paroxysms, so often attend- ing these diseases. These phenomena also teach us the reason of the fatal prognosis taken from black fetid urine in fevers. Varieties of Though bones so far agree in their structure and Bonea. annexed parts, yet we may observe a considerable difference among them in their magnitude, figure, situation, substance, connexion, uses, &c. From which authors have taken occasion to distinguish them into as many classes as they could enumerateOF THE BONES IN GENERAL. 17 of these different circumstances. But these being obvious to every person that looks on bones, I shall mention only one of them ; which comprehends very nearly the whole bones of the body ; and at the same time leads us to examine the most considerable va- riety that is to be found in- the disposition of their constituted parts, and in their uses. It is this, that some bones are broad and flat, while others are long and round. The broad bones have thin sides, by the plates Broad being soon and equally sent off to form the lattice- Bones- work ; which therefore is thicker, and nearly of an equal form all through. By this structure, they are well adapted to their uses, of affording a large enough surface for the muscles to rise from, and move upon, and of defending sufficiently the parts which they inclose. The round bones have thick strong walls in the Round middle, and become very thin towards their ends, oneSk which is owing to very few plates separating at their middle; where, on that account, the cancelli are so fine and small that they are not taken notice of: But such bones are said to have a large reservoir of oil in this place. Towards their ends the lattice- work becomes very thick, and rather more com- plete than in the other sort of bones.—These round bones having strong forces naturally applied to them, and being otherwise exposed to violent injuries, have Advantage need of a cylindrical figure to resist external pres? Jf this sure, and of a considerable quantity of oil to pre- orm* serve them from becoming too brittle. Besides which, they are advantageously provided with thick sides towards their middle, where the greatest forces are applied to injure them ; while, their hollowness in- creases their diameter, and consequently, their strength to resist forces applied to break them transversely (a), Thus, for instance, in estimating the proportional resistance of two cylindrical bones of unequal dia* (a) Galilei Mechanic, dialog. 2»OF THE BONES IN GENEIIAL. 18 meters, but consisting of an equal number of similar fibres uniformly disposed round each, it is plain, 1. That the absolute force of these two bones is equal, because they consist of equal numbers of si- milar fibres. 2. That the absolute forces of all the fibres in each bone have the same effect in resisting any power applied to break them, as if the sum of all their forces were united in the respective centres of the transverse sections where the fractures are te be made. For, by hypothesis, the fibres being uniformly disposed in each, there is not any fibre in either bone that has not a corresponding fibre; the sum of both whose I distances from the axis of revolution (about which all the parts of the bone must revolve in breaking) | is equal to two semi-diameters of the bone : Conse- ■ quently each fibre, and all the fibres, may be regard-' ed as resisting at the distance of one semi-diameter or radius from this axis, that is, in the centre. 3. Since the united force of all the fibres is to be regarded as resisting at a distance from the eentre? of motion equal to the semidiameter, it follows, that the total resistance of all these fibres, or the strength, i of the bone, is proportional to its semidiameter, andl consequently to its diameter. I have here taken for an example, one of the most! simple cases for calculating the proportional forces l of bones. But, were it not too foreign to the pre-- sent design, it might be universally demonstrated,, that, of whatever figure bones are, and in whatever manner their fibres are disposed, their strength must always be in a ratio, compounded of the area; of their transverse sections, or of their quantity of: bony matter, and of the distance of the centre of: gravity of these sections from the centre of motion or fulcrum, on which the bone is supposed to be: broken (a). (a) See the demonstration of this theorem hy Dr. Porterfield in the Edinburgh Medical Essays, vol. 1. art. 10.OP THE BONES IN GENERAL. 1<> Since therefore the strength of bones depends on their number of fibres, or quantity of matter, and the largeness of their diameters, one may conclude, that the part of a bone formerly fractured, and re- united by a callus, must be stronger than it was be- fore the fracture happened ; because both these ad- vantages are obtained by a callus; which is a wise provision, since bones are never set in such a good direction as they were naturally of; and then where- ever a callus is formed, there is such an obstruction of the vessels, that if the bone were again broken in the same place, the ossific matter could not so easily be conveyed to reunite it. This callus may indeed, for want of compression, be allowed to form into a spongy cellular substance (a) ; but even in this case, the strength of the bone is here increased by one or both the causes above mentioned. Many bones have protuberances, or processes *, Processes, rising out from them. If a process stands out in a foundish ball, it is called caput, or head.—If the head is flatted, it obtains the appellation of condyle. A rough unequal protuberance, is called tuberosity. When a process rises narrow, and then becomes large, the narrow or small part is named cervix, or neck.— Long ridges of bones, are called spines. Such processes as terminate in a sharp point, have the general name of coronce t, or coronoid, bestowed on them, though most of them receive particular names from the resemblance they have, or are imagined to have, to other substances, e. g. mastoid, styloid, anchoroid, coracoid, spinal, tfc. Such processes as form brims of cavities, are called supercilia J. (o) Ruysch. Thesaur. 8. o. 49. Mus. anat. thee. B. reposit. 2. n. '2. * 'AiriQvfftis, wQtmis, tfyxb, *po&o\ri, -gfofikvpu., Exeessus, explanatio, tuberculum, gibbus, eminentia, productio, extu- berantia, projectura, enascentia. f Rostra, glandes. + "Tti/sj ofyuif, »ft[ims, Z"^*i> Labra.OF THE BONES IN GENERAL. Processes serve for the advantageous origin and insertion of muscles, and render the articulations firm and stable. Before leaving this subject, we must remark, that much the greater number of what are called pro- cesses in adult bones, discover themselves in child- ren to be epiphyses, or distinct bones, which are af- terwards united to the other parts; such are the sty- loid processes of the temporal bones, processes of the vertebra, trochanters of the thigh, &c. However, as I intend to insist chiefly on the description of the adult skeleton, in which the union of these parts is so intimate, that scarcely any vestige remains of their former separation, I shall retain the common appel- lation of apophyse, or process, to all such protuber- ances; but shall remark the principal ones that have no just title to this name, when they occur in the de- scription of particular bones, ©avities On the surfaces of a great many of the bones there and De- are cavities, or depressions : If these are deep, with pressions. iarge brims, authors name them cotylae *. If they are superficial, they obtain the designation of glence, or glenoid. These general classes are again divided into several species : Of which pits are small round- ish channels sunk perpendicularly into the bone.— Furrows are long narrow canals, formed in the sur- face ; niches or notches, small breaches in the bone ; sinuosities, broad, but superficial depressions without brims; fossa;, large deep cavities, which are not equal- ly surrounded by high brims ; sinuses, large cavities within the substance of the bones, with small aper- tures ; foramina, or holes, canals that pierce quite through the substance of the bones.—When this last sort of cavity is extended any long way within a bone, the middle part retains the name of canal, and its ends are called holes. The cavities allow the heads of bones to play in them ; they lodge and defend other parts ; they af- ford safe passage to vessels, muscles, &c. To men- * Ksrvtihs, o\u$£}<n} Acetabula, pixides, buccellie.OV THE BONES IN GENERAL. 51 (&) Vcsal. De human, corp. fabrica, lib. i. cap. 3. tton more would engage us too much in the history of particular bones, which more properly belongs to the demonstration of the skeleton, where we shall have occasion to oberve these several species of ca- vities. . To far the greater number of bones, whose ends are not joined to other bones by an immoveable ar- ^ ticulation, there are smaller ones annexed, which af- terwards become scarcely distinguishable from the substance of the bone itself. These are called epi- physes, or appendices*. Some bones have one, others have two, three, or four of these appendices annexed by the means of cartilages, which are of a consider- able thickness in children, but by age become thin- ner ; the ossification proceeding from the end of the bone on one side, and from the epiphyses on the other, till at last, in adults, the place of their conjunction can scarcely be seen on the external surface; and it is only sometimes that we can then see any mark of distinction in the cancelli (a). Several processes (e. g. trochanters of the thigh, spine of the scapula, &c.) have epiphyses; and pro- cesses frequently rise out from epiphyses; for exam- ple, at the lower end of the femur, ulna, tibia, &c. (ft)- The epiphyses are united chiefly to such bones as Their us&s. are destined for frequent and violent motion; and for this purpose they are wisely framed of a larger diameter than the bone they belong to ; for by this means, the surface of contact between the two bones of any articulation being increased, their conjunc- tion becomes firmer, and the muscles inserted into them act with greater force, by reason of their axes being further removed from the centre of motion. These advantages might indeed have been obtained * Applantatio, additamentum, adnascentia, adnexum, pe- rone. (a; Winslow, Exposition anatomique de corps humain, traite des os sees. § 116.OF THE BONKS IN GENEftAL. 22 by the expansion of the end of the bone itself, to a thickness equal to that of the epiphyses ; but then the constant separation of new plates to form so wide a cellular structure, must have left the solid sides of the bones so thin, as to yield easily, either to the ac- tion of the muscles fixed to them, and passing over them, to the weight several of them are obliged to support, or to the application of any other external force. Several anatomists (a) thought that the epiphyses serve other purposes: such as, securing the liga- ments of the articulations which rise out from be- tween the bones and them; for, as soon as these parts are intimately joined, the ligaments insinuated betwixt them must have a much stronger connec- tion than they could have to the smooth surface of the bones. Such an interception of the ligament between the body of the bone and its epiphyse is not to be seen ; but as, at this place, the bone remains longer soft than any where else, and the adhesion of the periosteum, and of ligaments to bones, is always stronger in proportion to the bones being nearest to the consistence of those parts, which is, being soft- est, the opinion of these writers concerning the stronger connection of the ligaments, where the bones and epiphyses join, is not without some foun- dation. Possibly too, by the fibres of epiphyses not extend- ing themselves so longitudinally as those of the bones, there may be less chance of the former running into each other, than of the latter. The softness of the ends of bones may be of some advantage in the womb, and at birth, after which the ossification begins at different points to form epi- physes, before the ossification can extend from the middle to the ends of the bones (6). Progress of However solid and compact adult bones are, yet Jssifica- (a) Collumb, De re anatomies, lib. 1. cap. 2,—Fallop. Expos, de ossibus, cap. 11. (6) Haller de studio medic, p. 267.OF THE BONES IN GENERAL. 23 they were once cartilages, membranes, nay, a mere jelly. This needs no further proof, than repeated observations of embryos when dissected : And how much more tender must the boiies be before that time, when neither knife nor eye is capable of dis- covering the least rudiments of them ! By degrees they become more solid, then assume the nature of gristles, and at last ossify; the cohesion of their plates and fibres always increasing in proportion to their increased solidities; as is evident from the time necessary to unravel the texture of bones of people of different ages, or of dense and of spongy bones, or of the different parts of the same bone, and from the more tedious exfoliations of the bones of adults than of children. After any part of a bone is fully ossified, its fibres are extended little more in length at that part, though they increase there in thickness, and though their softer parts continue to become longer (a). As the solidity of bones increases, their periosteum more easily separates from them. When bones are membranous, the periosteum and they cannot be dis- tinguished ; they appear to be the same substance. When they are cartilages, their membrane adheres so firmly to them, that it is difficult to separate it from them. Where the rigid bony fibres are, the periosteum is easily taken off.—Is the similarity of structure and consequent greater attraction of the membrane and substance it incloses, while they are both flexible, the cause of their greater adhesion ? or is it owing to the vessels that go from the one to the other being then larger ? or do both these causes combine to produce this effect? Or is the mem- brane or cartilage, which becomes bone afterwards, to be considered as the same substance with the pel riosteum (6) ? and must all these plates of bones be (a) Hales's Vegetable Statics, p. 293 Du Hamel Me- moires de I'aead. des sciences, 1742. (6) Memoires de l'acad. des sciences, 1744.24 OF THE BONES IN CENEHAL. therefore said to be layers of the periosteum harden- ed (a) ? s .... The ossification of bones depends principally on their vessels being so disposed, and of such diame- ters, as to separate a liquor, which may easily turn into a bony substance, when it is deprived of its thinner parts ; as seems plain from the observation of the callous matter separated after fractures and ulcers, where part of the bone is taken out : For m these cases, the vessels extending themselves and the liquors added to them, are gradually formed into granulated flesh: which fills up all the space from which the bone is taken, then hardens t.ll it be- comes as firm as any other part of the bone Th,« happens frequently, even when the ends of the dis- eased bone are at a considerable distance from each *hTh-e induration of bones is also greatly assisted bv their being exposed, mor* than any other parts, to the strong pressure of the great weights they sup- port, to the violent contraction of the muscles fixed \o them, and to the force of the parts they contain, which endeavour to make way Tor their own further m-owth. By all this pressing force, the solid fibies Snd vessels of bones are thrust closer; and such par- ticles of the fluids conveyed in these vessels, as are fit to be united to the fibres, are sooner and more firmly incorporated with them, while the remaining fluids are forcibly driven out by the veins, to be mix- ed with the mass of blood. In consequence of this, the vessels gradually diminish as the bones harden. From which again we can understand one reason, why the bones of young animals sooner reunite after a fracture than those of old, and why cattle that are • put too soon to hard labour, seldom are of such large (a) Memoires de l'acad. des sciences, 1^43. arL23_ lb) Hildan, de vuln. gravis. Med. Essays, vol... art 2^. Tob a Meckren, obs. 69—Mem. de l'acad. des sciences, 1742.— l «u£S of such cases in Bochmer de oss.um callo.25 OF THE BONES IN GENERAL. size as others of the same brood who are longer kept from labour. That the ossifying of bones greatly depends on pressure, seems to be evinced from the frequent ex- amples we meet with of other parts turning bony when long exposed to the pressing force of the sur- rounding parts, or when they are subjected to the like circumstances by their own frequent and violent contraction. Witness, the bones found frequently near the base of the heart in some old men (a), and in several other creatures. Nay, the muscular substance of the heart has been ossified in such (6), and the arteries of old men often become bony. The cartilages of the larynx are generally ossified in adults. —-In beasts of burden, the cartilages between the vertebrae of the back very often change into complete bones ; and, being intimately united with the verte- brae, the whole appears one continued bone :—Nor is the periosteum exempted from such an induration (c). To confirm this argument still farther, we may ob- serve, that bones begin their ossification at the places where' they are most exposed to these causes, viz. in the cylindrical bones from a middle ring, and in the broad bones, at or near their centre, from one or more distinct points. The reason of which is, That these parts are contiguous to the bellies of the muscles an- nexed to the bones, where the swelling of these mov- ing powers is greatest. What the effects of this may be, let any judge, who view some of the bones, as the scapula, and ossa ilium, which are covered with mus- cles on each side ; how compact and thin they are in adults, where the bellies of the muscles were lodged; whereas in children they are thicker. But this be- ing the middle part of these bones, where the great- est number of fibres is, this particular place would (a) Riolan. Comment, de ossib. cap. 32.—Bartholin. Hist, medic, cent. I. hist. 50 Ibid. cent. 2. hist. 45. {&) Cheselden, Anatomy, book 1. introd. —Garengeot, Hist, de I'acad. des sciences, 1726. * (c) Peyer. Ephemerid. German, decur. 2. ann. 7. obscrv 205. c \OF THE BONES IN GENERAL. 26 have been much thicker in adults, had not this for- cible cause been applied, which has not had such ef- fects in children, whose muscles have not been much exercised.—Besides, if we allow that all the parts of a bone are equally increased by the constant supply of new particles, each fibre, and every particle of a fibre, endeavours to make way for its own growth, by pushing the one next to it; and consequently by far the greatest pressure is on the middle, to make the particles firm, and therefore to begin their ossification there. Lastly, the pulsation of the medullary ar- teries, which enter the bones near to this middle part, may, as authors have alleged, contribute perhaps somewhat to this induration. From the effects of pressure only it is, that we can account for the bones of old people having their sides much thinner, yet more dense and solid, while the cavities are much larger than in those of young peo- ple ; and for the prints of muscles, vessels, &c. being so much more strongly marked on the surfaces of the former than of the latter, if they belong to people of nearly the same condition in life.—Pressure must likewise be the cause, which, in people of equal ages, makes these prints stronger in the bones of those who had much labour and exercise, than they are in peo- ple who have led an indolent inactive life. Perhaps both the causes of ossification above men- tioned, mav be assisted by the nature of the climate in which people live, and the food they use. Whence, in hot countries, the inhabitants sooner come to their height of stature than in the northerly cold regions: And thence seems to have arisen the common prac- tice among the ladies, of making puppies drink brandy or spirit of wine, and of bathing them in these liquors, to prevent their growing big. Nay, it has been ob- served, that much use of such spirits has occasioned parts, naturally soft, to petrify in some, and to ossify in other people of no great age (a). (a) Littre, Histoire de l'acad. des sciences, 1706.—Geoffroy, ^lemoircs de l'acad. des sciences, 1706.I OF THE BONES IN GENERAL. 27 From the foregoing account of the structure of Various bones, and of their ossification, we may understand l)henot»' o i■ r ii u fxplainc the reasons of the following phenomena. How the natural colour of bones may be changed by some sorts of food (a). Why the bones of some people are so long in hard- ening, and in others never completely indurate. Why, in such whose ossification is slow, the bones are generally thicker in proportion to their lengths, especially at their ends ; as in the rickets. How hard firm bones have become soft and pliable by diseases (b). Why in some diseases, epiphyses separate from bones (c), and the ends of fractured bones come as- under many years after their fractures appeared to be cured (rf). How bones may waste and diminish (e). How bones may become solid all through, without any appearance of cancelfi ( f). How nodes, tophi, and exostoses, happen after the erosion of the external plates of bones in the lues ve- nerea, scurvy, rheunmiism, and gout. How bones exfoliate by the rising of granulated flesh from their surface. How and from what callus is formed after a frac- ture (g). (a) Philosoph. Transact. 442. art. 8. numb. 443. art. 2. numb. 457 art 4. Mem. de I'acad. des sciences, 1739, 1742. (6) Histoire de I'acad. des sciences, 1700.—Mem. 1722.— Gagliardi, Anatom. cap. 2. observ. 3.—Ephem. Germ, decur. 1. ann. 1. obs. 37. et schol. decur. 2. arm. 7. obs. 212, 235. decur. 3. ann. 2. obs. 3. Philos. Trans. No. 470. § 3. Ibid. vol. 38. § 4. and 44. (c) Memoires de I'acad. des sciences, 1699.—Diemerbroeck, Anat. lib. 9. cap. 19.—Cowper's Anat. explic. tab. 96. fig. 1. (<f) Anson's Voyage. (e) CheseMen, Anat. book 1. introd.—Hist, de I'acad. des sciences, 1700. (/) Ruysch. Thesaur. 2. art. 5. thes. 3. loc. 1. numb. 5. thes. 9. numb. 2. not 3.—Boehmer de callo ossium. (g) Memoires de I'acad. des sciences, 1741.—Delitleef de ossium callo. c2OF THE BONES IN GENERAL. 28 Why callus appears to be rather the continued sub- stance of the periosteum than of the bone, while it re- mains soft and flexible; but seems continued with the bone after it ossifies (a). Why callus is sensible, while it is soft, but becomes insensible when it hardens. What occasions sometimes such difficulty in curing fractured bones ; or why they never reunite, though they are reduced, and all proper means towards a cure are used (6).—Are the bones of women with child more tedious in reuniting than those of other people (c)? Why calluses, after fractures, are sometimes very thick and protuberant. What difference there ought to be in the applica- tion of bandages to fractures of the bones of old and of young patients. How bones, remaining long unreduced after a luxa- tion, may have their form so changed as to make their reduction very difficult, if not impossible (d). Whoever is desirous to know, in what time and or- der each bone and its several parts begin to assume a bony nature, let him consult Kerkringius (e), who gives us the delineations of abortions from three days after conception, and traces the ossification of the bones from three weeks, and a month, till the time of the birth : To whom should be added Coilerus(f) and Eyssonius (g). An account of this subject might also be collected out of Ruysch's works, where some of the mistakes committed by the former authors are corrected: and several "more particulars, to make the (a) Mem. de 1'acad. 1741. (6) Meckren Observ. medico-chirurg. obs. 71. Ruysch. Ad- vers. dec. 2. § 2. observ. anat. chir. obs. 4.—Van Swieten in Boerhaave Aphor. § 354. (c) Hi'.dau. centaur. 5. obs. 87. et cent. 6. obs. 68.—Philos. Transact. No. 494. § 21. (d) Saltzman. Obs. decur. obs. 6.—Memoires de I'acad. de chirurgie. torn. 2. p. 155 —Boehmer Inst.it. osteolog. § 596. (e) Anthropograph. ichuograph, etosteogenea foetuuin. (/) De ossibus foetus abortivi. {#) De ossibus infant, coguoscendt et curand. _ •. > JOF THE BONES IN GENERAL. 29 c 5 history of the osteogenea more accurate, have since been added by Nesbil (a) and Albimis (b). I must refer to the authors now quoted for the more curious part of the human osteogeny; not having pre- parations enough to give such a full history of it as is done by them. But I shall endeavour to explain the more useful and necessary part of the osteogeny,, by subjoining to the description of each bone of an adult, its condition in ripe children ; that is, in such as are born at the ordinary time; and shall point out what parts of each are afterwards joined in form of epi- physes. This, with the following general rules, seem to me sufficient for understanding what of this subject is necessary in the practice of physic and surgery. 1. Wherever I mention any parts being cartila- ginous, or their being still separable from the other parts of the bone to which they belong, I would be understood to hint, that, about seven or eight years of age, such parts are ossified and united to their proper bones, unless when it is said, that they are afterwards formed into epiphyses. 2. Such as become epiphyses, are generally ossified at seven or eight )'ears of age; but, being for the most part moistened by synovia, their external sur- face is still somewhat cartilaginous, and they are not yet united to their bones. 3. At eighteen or twenty years of age, the epi- physes are entirely ossified, and have blended their fibres so with the body of the bone, as to make them inseparable without violence. The knowledge of this part of the osieoge?iy, I think necessary to prevent dangerous mistakes in the cure of several diseases. As for example : Without this knowledge, the separation of an epipkyse might be mistaken for a fracture or luxation. The inter- stice of two parts of a bone not yet joined, might be judged to be a fissure. A diastasis, or separation (i) Human Osteogeny explained. (6) lcones osslum foetus humaui; aecedit osteogeneae brevi^ histona.30 OF THE BONES IN GENE1UL. of such disjoined pieces of a bone, might be thought a fracture.—The protrusion of one piece, or its over- Japping any other, could bo mistaken for an excres- cence or exostosis.—Such errors about the nature of a disease would give one very different indications of cure, from what he would have, if he really under- stood his patient's case. And very often the know- ledge of the different inequalities on the surfaces of bones, must direct us in the execution of what is pro- per to be done to cure several of their diseases. Artioula- Having thus considered the bones when single, uons. ^ye ought next to shew the different manner of their conjunctions *. To express these, anatomists have contrived a great number of technical terms ; about the meaning, propriety, and classing of which, there has unluckily been variety of opinions. Some of these terms it is necessary to retain, since they serve to express the various circumstances of the articula- tions, and to understand the writers on this subject. The Articulations are most commonly divided into three classes, viz, symphysis, synarthrosis, and diarikrosis. Symphysis. .Symphysis, which properly signifies the concretion or growing together of parts, when used to express the articulations of bones, does not seem to compre- hend, under the meaning generally given to it, any thing relating to the form or motion of the conjoined bones ; but by it most authors only denote the bones to be connected by some other substance; and as there are different substances which serve this pur- pose, therefore they divide it into the three follow- ing species : Smchon l» Synchondrosis f, when a cartilage is the con- drosis.'' necting substance : Thus the ribs are joined to the sternum; thus the bodies of the vertebrae are connect- ed to each other ; as are likewise the ossa pubis. * Ivvralu, evvS-tfi;, <fVf/Ao\n, iftiXm, compositio, connexio, artitulauo' conjunctio, nodus, commissura, structure, com- pages. f Amphiarthrosis.OF THE BONES IN GENERAL. 31 c 4 3 Sunneurosis, or syndesmosis, when ligaments Syndes* *re 'the connecting bodies, as they are in all the moveable articulations. • . . „ 3, Syssarcosis, when muscles are stretched from Systems. one bone to another, as they must be where there are moveable joints. The second class of articulations, the synarthrosis, Syn-ar- which is said to be the general term by which the ™ nobis, immoveable conjunction of bones is expressed, is di- vided into three kinds. 1. The suture* is that articulation where two Suture. bones are mutually indented into each other, or as if they were sewed together, and is formed by the fibres of two bones meeting while they are yet flexi- ble and yielding, and have not come to their full ex- tent of growth ; so that they mutually force into the interstices of each other, till, meeting with such re- sistance as they are not able to overcome, they are stopped from sprouting out farther, or are reflected ; and therefore these indentations are very different both in figure and magnitude: Thus the bones of the head are joined ; thus epiphyses are joined to the bones, before their full connection and union with them. Under this title of suture, the harmonia of the an* tients may be comprehended; scarcely any unmoved bones being joined by plain surfaces (a). 2. Gomphosis f is the fixing one bone into an- Goniphosis. other, as a nail is fixed in a board : Thus the teeth are secured in their sockets. 3. Schindylesis or ploughing (6), when a thin la- ScMndy- mella of one bone is received into a long narrow fur- lesis- row of another : Thus the processus azygos of the sphenoid, and the nasal process of the ethmoid bone, are received by the vomer. (a) Vesal. Observ. Fallop. Examen. + Conclavatio. (6) Keil, Auat. chap. 5. § 3.3* OF THE BONES IN GENERAL.1 % Compositus. i DiAitTHno- The third class, or diarthrosis*, is the articulation where the bones are so loosely connected as to allow large motion. This is subdivided into three kinds. Enarlhrosis. The first is enarlhrosis, or the ball and socket, when a large head is received into a deep cavity; as the head of the os femoris is into the acetabulum coxendicis. Arthrodia. The second is arthrodia, when a round head is re- ceived into a superficial cavity ; as in the articula- tion of the arm-bone and scapula. These two spe- cies of diarthrosis allow motion to all sides. Ginglimui. The third is ginglimus +, which properly signifies the hinge of a door or window; in it the parts of the bones mutually receive and are received, and allow of motion two ways : Workmen call it charnal. The ginglimus is generally divided into three kinds, to which some (b) give the names of contiguous %, dislant\\, and compound^. The first kind of ginglimus is, when a bone has several protuberances and cavities, which answer to as many cavities and processes of the other bone, with which it is articulated; as in the conjunction of the femur with the tibia. The second species is, when a bone receives an- other at one end, and is received by the same bone at the other end ; as in the radius and ulna. The last sort is, when a bone receives another, and is received by a third; as in the oblique pro- cesses of the vertebra;. When I first mentioned the articulations of bones> I said there were different opinions concerning the use of their technical names, e. g. It has been said, that symphysis should be the name for the immoveable articulations, and synarthrosis should be understood t» * Kxotfifiiti;, dearticulatio, abarticulatio^ •f Aiticulalio mutua. (ft) Baker, Curs, osteolog. demonstr. 1. \ Proxiuius. || Longus.OP THE BONES IN GENERAL. 33 c 5 be the conjunction of bones by some connecting me- dium. Those who have taken symphysis m the sense I did, of its expressing the conjunction of bones with a connecting substance, have disagreed in their definition of it; some inserting, and others leaving out, its allowing motion.—Where they have agreed in their definition, they have not been of the same mind concerning' the species of it. For several think the Syssarcosis and syndesmosis applicable to so many joints which are universally allowed to be classed un- der the diarthrosis, that it must create confusion to name them by any species of the symphysis Few keep to such a general definition of the synchondrosis as I have done ; and, whether they determine it to allow no motion, or an obscure or a manifest one, bring themselves into difficulties, beca\ise there are examples of all these three kinds. Some again, by too nicely distinguishing obscure and manifest motions of bones, have blended the synarthrosis and diar- throsis, and from thence have branched out the dif- ferent compound species of articulations that may be formed of them so far, that they could find no ex- amples in the body to illustrate them by .-—It would be tedious to enumerate more of the jarring opinions, and it would be far more so to give a detail of the arguments used by the disputants. It is sufficient for my purpose, that it is understood in what sense I take these technical terms ; which I do in the fol- lowing manner. When I mention the symphysis or synarthrosis; or any species of them, I shall always understand them according to the explication already given of them. But though the preceding account of the diarthrosis, or articulation of moveable bones, has been almost universally received ; yet, seeing it does not compre- hend all the moveable articulations of the body, and one of its species does not answer to any notion we can have of the conjunction of two bones, I must beg leave to change the definitions and kinds of these joints.OF THE BONES IN GENERAL. 34 Fuller ex- I would call diarlhrosis that conjunction of bones, of^iar" wnere^y they are fitted for motion, being each co- ihrosis ' vered with a smooth cartilage, connected by one or more common ligaments, and lubricated with liquor at the conjoined parts. In which definition, I have no regard to the quantity of motion which they really do perform ; the motion being often confined or en- larged by some other cause net immediately depend- ing on the frame of the two surfaces of the bones forming the particular joint which then is considered. The first species of the diarlhrosis, viz. the enar- ihrosis or ball and socket, I would define more ge- nerally than above ; that articulation where a round head of one bone is received into a cavity of another, and consequently, without some foreign impediment, is capable of motion to all sides. Examples of this kind are to be seen in the articulation of the thigh- bone and ossa innominata ; arm-bone and scapula ; ■' astragalus and os naviculare; magnum of the wrist, with the scaphoidcs and lunare; first bone of the thumb with the second, &c. The second sort, or the arthrodia, differing from the enarthrosis, in the preceding account, only in the cavity's being more superficial, which makes no es- sential difference, especially that, in the recent sub- ject, cartilages or ligaments supply the deficiency of bone, ought, in my opinion, to be called with Vesalius (a), that articulation of two bones adapted for motion, where it is not at first sight obvious which of the two has the head or cavity, or where they are joined by plain surfaces, or nearly so ; such is the conjunction of the clavicle with the scapula; ossq cuneiformia with the os naviculare ; metatarsal bones with the ossa cuneiformia, &c. From the nature of this sort of joint, it is" plain, that very great motion cannot be al- lowed, without the bones going farther out of their natural situation, than is convenient or safe. Ginglhnus, 1 would reckon that articulation by the form of which the motion of the joined bones must (a) De corp. human, fabriea, lib. I. cap. 4.OF THE BONES IN GENERAL. 35 be chiefly confined to two directions, as hinges of doors are The first species of this is the trochoides, when one bone turns on another, as a wheel does on its axis : Thus the first vertebra of the neck moves on the tooth- like process of the second. This is the most proper kind of ginglimus. The second species should be esteemed that articu- lation where several prominent and hollow surfaces of two bones move on each other, within the same com- mon ligament; as in the knee, elbow, &c. The&third sort of ginglimus is, when two bones are articulated to each other at different parts, with a dis- tinct apparatus of the motory machines at each ; such is the articulation of the o's occipitis with the first J)ff. iebra of the neck ; of any two contiguous vertebra;, by their oblique processes; of the ribs with the bodies and transverse processes of the vertebra;; of the radius with the' ulna, tibia with the fibula, astra- galus with the calcaneum, &c. I would entirely throw out what is commonly called the third kind of ginglimus: For, in examin- ing the conjunction of a bone with two others, as in the common example of a vertebra joined with the one above and below, the connection of the middle one with each of the other two ought to be considered separately; otherwise we might with the same pro- priety esteem the articulations that the long bones, the femur, tibia, humerus, Sec. have at their different ends, as one articulation ; which is absurd. If the moveable bones are not connected and kept firm by some strong substance, they would be luxated at every motion of the joints : and if their hard rough unequal surfaces were to play on each other, their motion would not only be difficult, but the loss of sub- stance from attrition would be great. Therefore ligaments are made to obviate the first, and cartilages to prevent the other inconveniency. But because ligaments and cartilages turn rigid, inflexible, and rough, unless they are kept moist, a sufficient quantity of proper liquors is supplied for their lubrication, andOF THE BONES IN GENERAL. 36 to preserve them in a flexible state. Seeing then these parts are so necessary to the articulations, I shall next consider their structure, situation, and uses, so far as they are subservient to the bones, and their motions. Ligaments * are white flexible bodies, thicker and firmer than membranes, and not so hard or firm as cartilages, without any remarkable cavity in their sub- stance, not easily stretched, and with little elasticity; serving to connect one part to another, or to prevent the parts to which they are fixed from being removed out of that situation which is useful and safe. After maceration in water, the ligaments can easily be divided ; and each ligamentous layer appears com- posed of fibres, the largest of which are disposed in a longitudinal direction. The arteries of ligaments are very conspicuous after a tolerable injection, and the larger trunks of their veins are sometimes to be seen full of blood. Such ligaments as form the sides of cavities, have numerous orifices of their arteries opening upon their internal surface, which keep it always moist: If we rub off that moisture, and then press the ligament, we can see the liquor oozing out from small pores; and we can force thin liquors injected by the arteries into the cavities formed by ligaments. These exhalent arteries must have corresponding absorbents, otherwise the cavities would soon be too full of liquor. Ligaments then must be subject to the diseases common to other parts, where there is a circulation of fluids, allowance always being made for the size of vessels, nature of the fluids, and firmness of the tex- ture of each part. Authors generally say, that ligaments are insensi- ble ; and consequently it may be inferred, that they have no nerves bestowed on them. But the violent racking pain felt on the least motion of a joint labour- ing under a rheumatism, the seat of which disease seems often to be in the ligaments, and the insufferable * 2i*h*(*u, »"f«, copula*, vincula.37 OF THE BONES IN GENERAL. torture occasioned by incisions of ligaments, and by a collection of acrid matter in a joint, or by tophi in the gout, would persuade us, that they are abundantly supplied with nerves. The ligaments which connect the moveable bones commonly rise from the conjunction of the epiphyses of the one bone, and are inserted into the same place of the other ; or where epiphyses are not, they come out from the cervix, and beyond the supercilia of the articulated bones ; and after such a manner, in both cases, as to include the articulation in a purse or bag, with this difference, depending on their different motions, that where the motion is only to be in two directions, the ligaments are, strongest on those sides towards which the bones are not moved ; and when a great variety of motions is designed to be allowed, the ligaments are weaker than in the former sort of articulations, and are nearly of the same strength all round. Part of the capsular ligaments is composed of the periosteum, continued from one bone to another, as was observed p. 2. and their internal layer is con- tinued on the parts of the bone or cartilage which the ligament includes (a.) Besides these common capsular ligaments of the joints, there are particular ones in several places, either for the firmer connection of the articulated bones, or for restraining and confining the motion to some one side ; such are the cross and lateral ligaments of the knee, the round one of the thigh, &c. From this account of the ligaments, we may con- clude, that, cceleris paribus, in whatever articulation the ligaments are few, long, and weak, the motion is more free and quick; but luxations happen frequently; And, on the contrary, where the ligaments are nume- rous, short, and strong, the motion is more confined ; but such a joint is less exposed to luxations (6). Whence we may judge how necessary it is to attend {a) Nesbit, Osteogen,—Philos. transact. No. 470. § 6. (6) Fabric, ab Aquapend. de articul. part, utilit. pars 3.38 OF THE BONES IN GENERAL. to the different ligaments, and the changes which have been made on them by a luxation, when it is to be reduced. ieir uses. Ligaments also supply the place of bones in several cases to advantage : Thus the parts in the pelvis are more safely supported below by ligaments, than they could have been by bone.- The ligaments placed in the great holes of the ossa innominata, and between the bones of the fore-arm and leg, afford convenient origin to muscles.—Immoveable bones are firmly con- nected by them ; of which the conjunction of the os sacrum and innominatum is an example. They af- ford a socket for moveable bones to play in, as we see part of the astragalus does on the ligament stretched from the heel-bone to the scaphoid. Numerous inconveniencies may arise from too long or short, strong or weak, lax or rigid ligaments *. artilages Cartilages-f are solid, smooth, white, elastic sub- 2 ' stances, between the hardness of bones and ligaments, and covered with a membrane, named perichondrium, which is of the same structure and use to them as the periosteum is to the bones. Cartilages are composed of plates, which are formed of fibres, disposed much in the same way as those of bones are ; as might be reasonably concluded from observing bones in a cartilaginous state before they ossify, and from seeing, on the other hand, so many cartages become bony. This may be still further confirmed, by the exfoliation to which cartilages are subject, as well as bones. The perichondrium of several cartilages, for exam- ple, those of the ribs and larynx, has arteries which can be equally well injected with those of the perios- teum ; but the vessels of that membrane in other parts, e. g. the articular cartilages, are smaller, and in none of them does injepfcion enter deep into the substance of the cartilages.'ii 'nay, madder mixed with the food ■ « On the ligaments, See Weiehtbrecht's Syndesmologia, and Bichat, Anat. Gener. T, hi. and Anat. Descnp. T. 1,OF THE BONES IN GENERAL. of animals, does not change the colour of cartilages, as it does that of bones (a). The granulated flesh which rises from the ends of metacarpal or metatarsal bones, when the cartilage ex- foliates, after a finger or toe has been taken off at the first joint, is very sensible, from which the. existence of nerves in cartilages may be inferred. While cartilages are in a natural state, it is to be remarked, first, That they have no cavity in their middle for marrow. Secondly, That'tbeir outer sur- face is softest, which renders them more flexible. Thirdly, That they do not appear to change their tex- ture nearly so much by acids as bones do ; and, lastly, That as the specific gravity of cartilages is nearly a third less than that of bones ; so the cohesion of their several plates is not so strong as in bones ; whence cartilages laid bare in wounds or ulcers, are not only more liable to corrupt, but exfoliate much sooner than bones do. Cartilages seem to be principally kept from ossify- ing, either by being subjected to alternate motions of flexion and extension, the effects of which are very different from any kind of simple pressure, or by be- ing constantly moistened (6) : Thus, the cartilages on the articulated ends of the great bones of the limbs, and the moveable ones placed between the moving bones in some articulations, which are obliged to suf- fer many and different flexions, and are plentifully moistened, scarcely ever change into' bone; while those of the ribs and larynx are often ossified.-—The middle angular part of the cartilages of the ribs, which is constantly in an alternate state of flexion and exten- sion, by being moved in respiration, is always the last to become bony.—In the larynx, the epiglottis, which is oftener bended and more moistened than the other four cartilages, is seldom ossified, while the others as seldom escape it in adult's. (a) Philos. Transact. No. 442. art. 8. No. 443. art. 2. No. 457. art. 4. Mem. de l'acad. des sciences 1739 et 1742.—Deht- lcef de rssium callo. (Jj) Havers Osteolosj. nov.OK THE BONES IN GENERAL. 40 The cartilages subervient to bones, are sometimes found on the ends of bones which are joined to no other ; but are never wanting on the ends, and in the cavities of such bones as are designed for motion (a). Cartilages also are interposed between such other car- tilages as cover the heads and cavities of articulated bones; nay, they are also placed between immove- able bones. Their ures. The uses of cartilages, so far as they regard bones, are, to allow, by their smoothness, such bones as are designed for motion, to slide easily without detrition, while, by their flexibility, they accommodate them- selves to the several figures necessary in different motions, and, by their elasticity, they recover their natural position and shape as soon as the pressure is removed.—This springy force may also render the motion of the joint more expeditious, and may dimi- nish shocks in running, jumping, &c. To these car- tilages we chiefly owe the security of the moveable articulations: For without them the bony fibres would sprout out, and intimately coalesce with the adjoining bone ; whence a true anchylosis must necessarily fol- low ; which never fails to happen when the cartilages are eroded by acrid matter, or ossified from want of motion or defect of liquor, as we see often happens after wounds of the joints, paidarlhrocace, scrophula, and spina veniosa, or from old age, and long immo- bility of joints (6).—Hence we may know what the annihilation is which is said to be made of the head of a bone, and of the cavity for lodging it, after an unreduced fracture (c.) The moveable cartilages in- terposed in joints serve to make the motions both freer and more safe than they would otherwise be. Those placed on the ends ofbones that are not articulat- (o) Cels. de re medic, lib. 8„ c»p. I. (6) Columb. de re anat. lib. 15. Deslandes Hist, de l'acad. des sciences 1116.—Phil, transact. No. 215. Ibid. No. 461. ' § 16- (c) Hildan. de ichor, et melicer. acri Celsi, cap. 5. Ruyscb. Thes. 8. No, 103. Saltzman in act. Petropolit. Tom. 3. p. 275.OF THE BONES IN GENERAL. 41 ed, as on thespine of the os ilium, base of the scapula, &c. serve to prevent the bony fibres from growing out too far.—Cartilages sometimes serve as ligaments, either to fasten together bones that are immoveably joined, such are the cartilages between the os sacrum and ossa ilium, the ossa pubis, Sec or to connect bones that en- joy manifest motion, as those do which are placed be- tween the bodies of the true verlebrce, &c. Cartilages very often do the office of bones to greater advantage than these last could, as in the cartilages of the ribs, those which supply brims to cavities, &c. Too great thickness or thinness, length or shortness, hardness or suppleness of cartilages, may therefore cause great disorders in the body. The liquor, which principally serves to moisten the Synovial ligaments and cartilages of the articulations, is sup- apparatus, plied by glands, which are commonly situated in the joint, after such a manner as to be gently pressed, but not destroyed by its motion. By this means, when there is the greatest necessity for this liquor, that is, when the most frequent motions are performed, the greatest quantity of it must be separated. These glands are soft and pappy, but not friable : In some of the large joints, they are of the conglomerate kind, or a great number of small glandules are wrapt up in one s common membrane. Their excretory ducts are long, and hang loose, like so many fringes, within the ar- ticulation ; which, by its motion and pressure, pre- vents obstructions in the body of the gland or its ex- cretories, and promotes the return of this liquor, when fit to be taken up by the absorbent vessels, which must be in the joints, as well as in the other cavities of the body ; and, at the same time, the pressure on the excretory ducts hinders a superfluous unnecessary secretion, while the fimbriated disposition of these ex- cretories does not, allow any of the secreted liquor to be pushed back again by these canals towards the glands (a.) Very often these fountains of slimy liquor appear only as a network of vessels.—Frequently they are (a) Cowper, Anatorr. explicat. tab. 79. lit. E»OF TtfE BONES IN GENERAL. 42 almost concealed by cellular membranes containing , the fat—and sometimes small simple mucousfolliculi may be seen (a.) • The different joints have these organs in different numbers and sizes; the conglomerate ones do not vary much, especially as to situation, in the similar joints of different bodies; but the others are more uncertain. 'Synovia. Upon pressing any of these glands with the finger, one can squeeze out of their excretories a mucilagin- . ous liquor, which somewhat resembles the white of an egg, or serum of the blood ; but it is manifestly salt to the taste. It does not coagulate by acids or by heat, as the serum, but by the latter turns first thinner, and, when evaporated, leaves only a thin salt film. The quantity of this mucilage, constantly supplied, must be very considerable, since we see what a plen- tiful troublesome discharge of glairy matter follows a wound or ulcer of any joint; of which liquor the mu- cilage is a considerable part. The vessels which supply liquors for making the secretion of this mucilage, and the veins which bring back the blood remaining after the secretion, are to be seen without any preparation ; and, after a toler- able injection of the arteries, the glands are covered with them. In a sound state, we are not conscious of any sen- sibility in those glands; but, in some cases which I have seen, when they inflame and suppurate, the most racking pain is felt in them : a melancholy, though a sure proof that they have nerves. These mucilaginous glands are commonly lodged in a cellular substance ; which is also to be observed in other parts of the bag formed by the ligaments of the articulation ; and contains a fatty matter, that must necessarily be attenuated, and forced through the including membranes into the cavity of the joint, by the pressure which it suffers from the moving bones. (a) Morgagn. Adversar. 2. aniaud. 23,OF THE BONES IN GENERAL. It then the oil is conveyed from this cellular sub- stance; and if the attenuated marrow passes from the cancellioi the bones by the large pores near their ends, ! or in their cavities, and sweats through the cartilages there into the articulations; which it may, when as- sisted by the constant heat and action of the body, more easily do, than when it escapes through the compact substance of the bones in a skeleton : If, I say, this oil is sent to a joint, and is incorporated with the mucilage, and with the fine lymph that is con- stantly oozing out at the extremities of the small ar- teries distributed to the ligaments, one of the fittest liniments- imaginable must be produced; for the mucus diluted by the lymph contributes greatly to its lubri- city, and the oil preserves it from hardening. How well such a mixture serves the purpose it is designed for, Boyle (a) tells us he experienced in working his air-pump ; for the sucker could be moved with much less force after being moistened with water and oil., than when he used either one or other of these liquors: And I believe every one, at first view, will allow the diluted mucilage to be much preferable to simple wa- ter. The synovia *, as this liquor composed of oil, mucilage and lymph, is commonly now called, while in a sound state, effectually preserves all the parts con- cerned in the articulations soft and flexible, and makes themslide easily on each other, by which their mutual detrition and overheating is prevented, in the manner daily practised in coach and cart wheels, by besmear- ing them with grease and tar. After the liquor of the articulations becomes too thin and unserviceable, by being constantly rubbed between the moving bones, it is re-assumed into the mass of blood by the absorbent vessels. When the synovia is not rubbed betwixt the bones, it inspissates. And sometimes, when the head of a bone has been long out of its cavity, this liquor is said to fill up the place of the bone, and hinder its reduc- (a) Physico-mechanic. experim. • Mi/|«, mucus, axungia.44 OF THE DONES IN GENERAL. tion ; or if a joint continues long unmoved, it is also said to cement the bones, and occasion a true anchy- losis (a). If the synovia becomes too acrid, it erodes the cartilages and bones ; as frequently hap- pens to those who labour under the lues venerea, scurvy, scrophula, or spina venlosa. If this liquor is sepa- rated in too small quantity, the joint becomes stiff; and when it is moved with difficulty, a crackling noise is heard, as people advanced in years frequently ex- perience (A).—If the mucilage and lymph are depo- sited in too great quantity, and the absorbent vessels do not perform their office sufficiently, they may oc- casion a dropsy of the joints (c).—From this same cause also the ligaments are often so much relaxed, as to make the conjunction of the bones very weak: Thence arise the luxations from an internal cause, which are easily reduced, but not easily cured (d).— I Frequently, when such a superfluous quantity of this liquor is pent up, it becomes very acrid, and oc- casions a great train of bad symptoms ; such as swel- ling and pain of the joints, long sinuous ulcers and Jistula, rotten bones, immobility of the joints, marcor and atrophia of the whole body, hectic fevers, fee. (e)— From a depravity in the blood, or diseases in the organs that furnish the synovia of the joints, it may be great- ly changed from its natural state; it may be purulent after inflammation, mucous in the white swellings, gelatinous in the rheumatism, chalky from the gout, Sec; hence a great variety of disorders in th$ joints {/)*. (a) Pare, Cbirurgie, livre 15. chap. 18. etlivre 16. chap. 5. (&) Galen, de usu part. lib. 12. cap. 2. Fabric, ab Aquapend. de articul. part, utilitat. pars 3. Bartholin. Hist, medic, cent. 3. hist. 11. (c) Hildan. de ichore et melicena acn Celsi. (d) Hppocrat. de locis in hdminc, § 14. et de articul. (*•) Hildan. de ichore et meliceria acri Celsi. (/) See Reimar Disser. de fungo articulor. "On the synovial apparatus, see Monro on the Bursse mu- cosa?, and Bichat, Anat. Gener. T. A. E.THE ANATOMY OF THE HUMAN BONES. PART II. OF THE SKELETON. Though any dry substance may be called skeleton, Definition, yet, among anatomists, this word is universally un- derstood to signify the bones of animals connected to- gether, after the teguments, muscles, bowels, glands, nerves, and vessels are taken way *. „ A skeleton is said to be natural, when the bones Natural are kept together by their own ligaments ; and it is and Artili- called artificial, when the bones are joined with wire, cial* or any other substance which is not part of the crea- ture to which they belonged. Small subjects, and such whose bones are not fully ossified, are commonly pre- pared the first way; because, were all their parts diV vided, the nicest artist could not rejoin them, by rea- son of their smallness, and of the separation of their unossified parts ; whereas the bones of large adult animals are soonest and most conveniently cleaned • Cadaveris crates.46 OF THE SKELETON. When single, and are easily restored to, and kept in their natural situation.—Sometimes the skeleton of the same animal is prepared in both these ways ; that is, the smaller bones are kept together by their natural ligaments, and the larger are connected by wires, or some such substances, lelativesi- Before we proceed to the division and particular matron of description of the skeleton, it is worth while to re- the Boues. that when the bones are put into their natural situation, scarcely any one of them is placed in a perpendicular bearing to another ; though the fabric composed of them is so contrived, that, in an erect posture, a perpendicular line, from their common centre of gravity, falls in the middle of their com- mon base (a). On this account, we can support ourselves as firmly, as if the axis of all the bones had been a straight line perpendicular to the horizon; and we have much greater quickness, ease, and strength in several of the most necessary motions we perform. It is true indeed, that where ever the bones on which any part of our body is sustained, decline from a straight line, the force required in the muscles, to counteract the gravity of that part, is greater than otherwise it needed to have been : But then this is effectually provided for in such places, by the num- ber and strength of the muscles. So long therefore as we remain in the same posture, a considerable number of muscles must be in a constant state ot contraction ; which we know, both from reason and experience, must soon create an uneasy sensation. This we call, being weary of one posture : An incon- venience that we should not have had in standing erect if the b aring of all the bones to each other had been perpendicular ; but is more than compen- sated by the advantages above mentioned. The human skeleton is generally divided into the Head, the Trunk, the Superior, and the Inferior Extremities. («) Cowper, Anat. of Human Bodies, wfelie. ef tab. 87. 88.*7 OF THE SKELETON. OF THE HEAD. ijBythe Head is meant all that spheroidal part which is placed above the first bone of the neck. It there- fore comprehends the cranium and bones of the face. The cranium *, helmet, or brain-case, consists of Cranium, iseveral pieces, which form a vaulted cayity, for lodg- ing and defending the brain and cerebellum, with itheir membranes, vessels, and nerves. The cavity of the cranium is proportioned to its Contents. Hence such a variety of its size is ob- served in different subjects; and hence it is neither so broad nor so deep at its fore-part, in which the anterior lobes of the brain are lodged, as it is behind, where the large posterior lobes of the brain, and the whole cerebellum, are contained. The roundish figure of the skull, which makes it Figure, more capacious, and better able to defend its contents from external injuries, is owing chiefly to the equal pressure of these contained parts as they grow and increase before it is entirely ossified. It is to be observed, however; that the sides--of the cranium are depressed below a spherical surface by the strong temporal muscles, whose action hinders here the uniform protrusion of the bones, which is more equal- y performed in other parts, where no such large mus- ses are. In children, whose muscles have not acted nuch, and consequently have not had great effects m the bones, this depression is not so remarkable ; ind therefore their heads are much rounder than in idults. These natural causes, differently disposed in Jifferent people, produce a great variety in the shapes )f skulls, which is still increased by the different ma- nagement of the heads of children when very young: So that one may know a Turk's skull by its globular figure, a Germa?i's by its breadth and flatness of the • K«y%ot, xurn, ku2(ik, rxatpim, ealva, calvaria, cerebri galea, heca et olla capitis, testa capitis, scutella capitis.\ 48 OF THE SKELETON. occiput, Dutch and English by their oblong shapes, &c. (a). Two advantages are reaped from this flat- ness of the sides of the cranium, viz. the enlargement of our sphere of vision, and more advantageous si- tuation of our ears, for receiving a greater quantity of sound, and for being less exposed to injuries. Surfaces. The external surface of the upper* part of the cranium is very smooth and equal, being covered only i with the periosteum, (common to all the bones ; but in the skull, distinguished by the name of pericranium), the th\n frontal and occipital muscles, their tend]nous aponeurosis, and with the common teguments of the body ; while the external surface of its lower T part has numerous risings, depressions, and holes, which afford convenient origin and insertion to the muscles that are connected to it, and allow safe passage for the vessels and nerves that run through and near it. The internal % surface of the upper part of the skull is commonly smooth, except where the vessels of the. dura mater have made furrows in it, while the bones were soft. Surgeons should be cautious when they trepan here, lest, in sawing or raising the bone where such furrows are, they wound the^e vessels. In the upper part of the internal surface of several skulls, there are likewise pits of different magnitudes and figures, which seem to be formed by some parts of the brain being more luxuriant and prominent than others. Where these pits are, the skull is so much thinner than any where else, that it is often rendered diaphanous, the two tables being closely compacted i without a diploe; the want of which is supplied by vessels po'iik* from the dura mater into a great many small holes observable in the pits. These vessels are lareer, and much more conspicuous than any others- that are sent from the dura mater to the skull; as evi~ Vesal. lib. 1. c. 5. See also Blumenbach Collect. Crac. (a) divers, gent [p^hcraf surfaces of the coronal, glabellar, and inial * parts! (B.) E f Basilar part. E. \ Central surface. E.49 OF THE SKELETON. dently appears from the drops of blood they pour out, when the skull is raised from the dura mater in a re- cent subject; and therefore they may furnish a suf- ficient quantity of liquors necessary to prevent the brittleness of this thin part, The knowledge of these pits should teach surgeons to saw cautiously and slowly through the external table of the skull, when they are performing the operation of the trepan; since, in a patient whose cranium has these pits, the dura mater and brain may be injured, before the in- strument has pierced near the ordinary thickness of a table of the skull.—The internal base of the skull is extremely unequal, for lodging the several parts and appendices of the brain and cerebellum, and al- lowing passage and defence to the vessels and nerves that go into, or come out from these parts. The bones of the cranium are composed of two Tables tables, and intermediate cancelli, commonly called Diploe. their diploe*. The external table is thickest; the inner, from its thinness and consequent brittleness, has got the name of vilrea. Whence we may see the reason of those mischievous consequences which so often attend a collection of matter in the diploe, either from an external or internal cause, before any sign of such a collection appears in the teguments that cover the part of the skull where it is lodged (a). The diploe has much the same texture and uses in the skull, as the cancelli have in other bones. The diploe of several old subjects is so obliterated, that scarcely any vestige of it can be seen ; neither is it observable in some of the hard craggy bones at the base of the skull. Hence a useful caution to surgeons who trust to the bleeding, want of resistance, and change of sound, as certain marks in the operation of the trepan, for knowing when their instrument has sawed through the first table, and reached the N diploe (b). In other people, the diploe becomes of a " Meditullium, commiss.ura. (a) Bonet. Sepulchret. Anat. lib. 1. § 1. obi. 95.—1-03.- (f>) Bartholin. Anat. reform, lib. 4. cap. A: D50 OF THE SKELETON. Component bones. Sutures. Coronal. Lambdoi da!. monstrous thickness, while the tables of the skulHtte thinner than paper. The cranium consists of eight bones, six of which are said to be proper, and the other two are reckoned common to it and to the face.—The six proper arc the osfronlis, two ossa parielalia, two ossa lemporum, and the os occipitis. rThe common are the os elk- moides and sphcnoides. The os fronlis forms the whole fore * part ot the 1 vault; the two ossa parielalia form the upper and middle part of it; the ossa lemporum compose the lower part of the sides ; the os occipitis makes the whole hinder part, and some of the base; the os ethmoides is placed in the fore part of the base, and the os sphenoides is in the middle of it. These bones are joined to each other by five litres; the names of which are the coronal, lambdoid, sasittal, and two squamous. The coronal\ suture is extended over the head, from within an inch or so of the external % canthus of one eve, to the like distance from the other; which being near the place where the antients vvore their villa?, corona:, or garlands, this suture has hence got its name.—Though the indentations of this suture are conspicuous m its upper part, yet an inch or more of its end on each side has none of them ; for it is squamous and smooth there. _ . The lambdoidal \\ suture begins some way below, and farther back than the vertex or crown of the head, whence its two legs are stretched obliquely downwards, and to each side, m form of the Greek letter a, and are now generally said to extend them- selves to the base of the skull; but formerly anato- mists (a) reckoned the proper lambdoid suture to ter- minate at the squamous sutures, and what is extended » Glabellar. E. f Srspant/a, arcualis, puppis. jj Lateral. E \\ Lauds, prors, hypsyloides. (a) Vesal, Anat. lib. 1. cap. 6.51 ©F THE SKELETON. lit an angle down from that on each side, where the : indentations are less conspicuous than in the upper part of the suture, they called additamentum suturce lambdoidis*. This suture is sometimes very irregular, being made up of a great many small sutures, which sur- round so many little bones that are generally larger l and more conspicuous on the external surface of the skull, than internally. These bones are generally called triquetra or Wormiana ; but some other name ought to be given them, for they are not always of a triangular figure'; and older anatomists (a) than Olaus Wormius (b) have described them.—The specific vir- tue which these bones were once thought to have in the cure of the epilepsy (c) is not now ascribed to them ; and anatomists generally agree, that their for- mation is owing to a greater number of points than ordinary of ossification in the skull, or to the ordinary bones of the cranium not extending their ossification far enough or soon enough ; in which case, the un- ossified interstice between such bones begins a separate ossification in one or more points : from which the ossification is extended to form as many distinct bones as there were points that are indented into the large ordinary bones, and into each other.—Probably those children who have a large opening in this place at their birth, will have the largest ossa triquelra. To confirm this account of the formation of these lit- tle bones, we may remark, that such bones are some- times seen in othersutures, as well asin thelambdoid(d), * Lambdoides harmonialis, lambdoides inferior, occipitis corona. (a) Eustaeh. Ossium examen.—Bauhin, Theat. Auat. lib. 3. cap. 5. Paaw in Hippociat. de vulner. cap. p. 56. (6) Musaeum, lib. 3. cap. 26. (c) Bauhin, et Paaw, ibid—Bartholin. Anat. reform, lib. 4. cap. 5. Hildan. Epistol. 65. (d) See examples in Vesal, lib. 1. cap. 6. fig. 4. Paaw in Hippociat. de cap. vuln.—Bartholin. Hist. Anat. cent. I. hist 51.—Ruysch. Mus. Anat—Sue Trad, d'osteolog. p. 47. D 2OF THE SKELETON. 52 and they are sometimes in one table of the skull, and not in the other (a). Sagittal. . The sagittal suture* is placed longitudinally, in ! the middle of the upper part of the skull, and com- monly terminates at the middle of the coronal, and of the lambdoid sutures ; between which it is said to be placed, as an arrow is between the string and bow.— However, this suture is frequently continued through ' the middle of the osfronlis, down to the root of the nose; which, some (b) say, oftener happens in wo- men than men ; but others (c) allege, that it is to be met with more frequently in male skulls than in fe- male : Among the skulls; which I have seen thus di- vided, the female are the most numerous. Several (d) have delineated and described the sagittal suture, sometimes dividing the occipital bone as far down as the great hole through which the medulla spinalis passes. This I never saw. In some old skulls that are in my possession, there is scarcely a vestige of any of the three sutures which I have now descrihed. In other heads, one or two of the sutures only disappear; but I never could dis- cover any reason for thinking them disposed in such different manners in skulls of different shapes, as some antients allege they are (<?). Squamous. The squamous, agglutinations, or false sutures f, are one on each side, a little above the ear, of a semicir- cular figure, formed by the overlapping (like one scale upon another) of the upper part of the temporal (n) Hunaivlcl. in Mem. de Tacad. des sciences, 1730. » 'PccficuVns, ofrXaix., ixiXioyiunci, instar v;rgae, nervalis, nstar tel., iiwtar eru, secundum capitis, longitudinem prore- pens,conjungens, columualis, recta, acualis. _ j (b) Riolan. Comment, deossib. cap. 8. (C) Ve^al, lib. 1. cap. 6. et in epitome. id) Vesal, lib. t. cap. 5. fig. 3. 4. et in text. cap. 6.-P.«aw inCels.de re medic cap. 1— Laurent. Hist. Anat. lib. K "(eyHippocrat. de vulner. capitis, § l.-Galen. de ossib. et fie usu part lib. 9. cap. IT. + Awhth, vWKoXXtn*™, *!>,™<p>cu, temporales, cm- ' ticales,'meadow, uarmoniales, commissure in umjuern.OP THE SKELETON. Bones on the lower part of the parietal, where, in both i bones, there are a great many small risings and fur- i rows, which are indented into each other: though i these inequalities do not appear till the bones are se- parated. In some skulls indeed, the indentations Ihere are as conspicuous externally as in other sutures ( («) ; and what is commonly called the posterior part of this squamous suture, always has the evident ser- j rated form; and therefore is reckoned by some (6), I a distinct suture, under the name of additamentum poslerius suturw squajnosce.—I have seen two squa- mous sutures on the same temple, with a semicircular piece of bone between them (c). We ought here to remark, that the true squamous sort of suture is not confined to the conjunction of the temporal and parietal boneSj but is made use of to join all the edges of the bones on which each tem- poral muscle is placed (d) : For the two parts of the , sphenoidal suture which are continued from the ante-, rior end of the common squamous suture just now de- ■ scribed, of which one runs perpendicularly downwards, and the other horizontally forwards, and also the lower part of the coronal suture already taken notice of, may all be justly said to pertain to the squamous su- ture.—The manner how I imagine this sort of suture is formed at these places, is, That by the action of the strong temporal muscles on one side, and by the pressure of the brain on the other, the bones are made so thin, that they have not large enough sur- faces opposed to each other to stop the extension of their fibres in length, and thus to cause the common serrated appearance of sutures explained in p. 31, but the narrow edge of the one bone slides over the other. The squamous form is also more convenient here ; be- cause such thin edges of bones, when accurately ap- («) Columb. de re anat. lib, 1. cap. 4.—Dionis. Anat. 3. de- monst. des us. (A) Albin. de ossib. § 54. (c) Sue Trad, d'osteolop. p. 48. (rf) Vesal. Anat. lib. l.'cap. 6—Winslow, Mem. de l'acad. <es sciences, 1720. B 3til OF THE SKELETON. plied one to another, have scarcely any rough sur- face, to obstruct or hurt the muscle in its contraction; which is still further provided for, by the manner of laying these edges on each other : for, in viewing their outside, we see the temporal bones covering the sphenoidal and parietal, and this last supporting the sphenoidal, while both mount on the frontal: from which disposition, it is evident, that while the tem- poral muscle is contracting, which is the only time it- presses strongly in its motion on the bones, its fibres slide easily over the external edges. Another advan- tage still in this is, that all this bony part is made stronger by the bones thus supporting each other. Common The bones of the skull are joined to those of the sutures. face> by schgnde!esis and sutures.—The schyndelesis is in the partition of the nose.—The Sutures said to be common to the cranium and face are five, viz. the ethmoidal, sphenoidal, transverse, and two zygomatic. Parts however of these sutures are at the junction of only the bones of the skull. The ethmoidal and sphenoidal sutures surround the bones of these names ; and in some places help to make up other sutures, particularly the squamous and transverse, and in other parts there is but one suture common to these two bones. Transverse. The transverse suture is extended quite cross the face, from the external * canthus of one orbit to the same place of the other, by sinking from the canthus down the outside of the orbit to its bottom; then mourning upon its inside, it is continued by the root of the nose down the internal f part of the othei\orbit, and rises up again on its outside to the other canthus. It may be here remarked, that there are some inter- ruptions of this suture in the course I have described; for the bones are not contiguous every where, but are separated to leave holes and apertures, to be mentioned hereafter. Zygomatic The zygomatic sutures are one on each side, being Zygomatic. ^ J» siantbg ^ aboye ob]ique]y downward£. * Lateral, E. •f Mesial. E.55 OP THE SKELETON. and backwards, to join a process of the cheek-bone to one of the temporal bones, which advances towards the face; so that the two processes thus united, form a sort of bridge, or jugum, under which the temporal muscle passes ; on which account the processes, and suture joining them, have been called zygomatic. It must be observed, that the indentations of the sutures do not appear on the inside of the cranium, by much so strong as on the outside ; but the bones seem joined almost in a straight line : nay, in some skulls, the internal surface is found entire, while the sutures are manifest without; which may possibly be owing to the less extent of the concave than of the convex, surface of the cranium, whereby the fibres of the in- ternal side would be stretched farther out at the edge? of the bones, than the exterior ones, if they were not resisted. The resistances are the fibres of the oppo- site bone, the parts within the skull, and the diploe ; of which the last being the weakest, the most ad- vanced fibres or serrw run into it, and leave the con- tiguous edges equal, and more ready to unite : where- as the serrw of the external table have space enough for their admission between the fibres of the opposite bone, and therefore remain of the indented form, and are less liable to the concretion, whereby the sutures are obliterated («).—By this mechanism, there is no risk of the sharp points of the bones growing inwards, since the external serrce of each of the conjoining bones rest upon the internal smooth-edged table ofthe other; and external forces applied to these parts are strongly resisted, because the sutures cannot yield, unless the serrated edges of the one bone, and the plain internal plate of the other are broken (6). The advantages ofthe sutures ofthe cranium are Uses of Hie these: 1. That this capsula is more easily formed and sutures- extended into a spherical figure, than if it had been one continued bone. 2. That the bones which are at some distance from each other at birth, might then (a) Huuau.d. Memoires de l'acad. des sciences, 1730. Winslow, Memoires de l'acad. des sciencesy.1720^OF THE SKELETON. (b) Ephemerid. Gcimanic. dec. 1. auu. 4. et5. observ. S3. yield, and allow to the head a change of shape, ac- commodated to the passage in which it is engaged. Whence, in hard labour of childbed, the bones of the eranium, instead of being only brought into contact, are sometimes made to mount one upon the other. 3. It is alleged, that, through the sutures, there is a transpiration of steams from the brain, which was the old doctrine ; or some communication of the vessels without, and of those within the skull, larger here than in any other part of the cranium, according to some moderns ; and therefore cvcuphce, fomentations, cata- plasms, cephalic plasters, blisters, are applied, and issues are eroded, or cut in the head, at those places where the sutures are longest in forming, and where the connection of the bones is afterwards loosest, for the cu re of a phrcnitis, mania, inveterate fteacl-ach, epilepsy, apoplexy, and other diseases of the head. The favour- ers of the doctrine of transpiration, or communications of vessels at the sutures, endeavour to support it by observations of persons subject to head-aehs which caused death, from the sutures being too closely un- ited (a). 4. That the dura mater may be more firm* ly suspended by its processes, which insinuate them- selves into this conjunction of the bones ; for doing this equally, and where the greatest necessity of ad- hesion is, the sutures are disposed at nearly equal dis- tances, and the large reservoirs of blood, the sinuses, are under or near them. 5. That fractures might be prevented from reaching so far as they would in a con- tinued bony substance. 6. That the connection at the sutures being capable of yielding, the bones might be allowed to separate; which has given great relief to patients from the violent symptoms which they had before this separation happened (6). And it seems reasonable to believe, that the opening of the sutures was of great benefit to several others who were rather (rt)Columb. de re anat. lib. 1. < ap. 5.—Verduc. nouvelle osteologie, ihap. 14 - Dion.., Anat. 3. demoustr. des o*.OF THE SKELETON. 57 judged to have been hurt by it (a): for we must think, that the consequences of such a force acting up- on the brain, as was capable of thrusting the bones asunder, must have been fatal, unless it had been thus yielded to. Having gone through the general structure of the Particular cranium, I npw proceed to examine each bone of which B ,nes* that brain-case consists, in the order, in which 1 first named them. The Os Frontis t has its name from its being the Fronta only bone of that part of the face we call the forehead, Bone, though it reaches a good deal further. It has some resemblance in shape to the shell of the concha (rival- vis, commonly called the cockle ; for the greatest part of it is convex externally, and concave internally, with a serrated circular edge; while the smaller part has processes and depressions, which make it of an irregular figure. The external surface of the os froniis is smooth at Processes, its upper convex part; but several processes and ca- vities are observable below: for, at each angle of each < orbit, the bone juts out, to form four processes, two in-*//.- n ■-■> ~< ternal*, and as many external ! ; which, from this.si- ~ . ' ** 1 tuation, may well enough be named angular. Be- tween the internal and external angular processes of each side, an arched ridge is extended, on which the eyebrows are placed. Very little above the internal end of each of these superciliary ridges, a protuberance may be remarked, in most skulls, where there are large cavities, called sinuses, within the bone; of which hereafter.—Betwixt the internal angular pro- cesses, a small process rises, which forms some share of the nose, and thence is named Hasal.£-Some observe * t*UL a protuberant part on the edge of the bone behind (a) Ephemerid. Germ, dec, 2. arm. 9. obs. 230. Ibid. cent. 10. obs. 31. V.-i rider Linden Medicin. phys. cap. 8. art. 4. § 16. Hil.lan. Ohserv. cent. 1. obi. 1. cent. 2. obs. 7. Buuliin. Theat. anat. ,.ftp. r. pecn| n. Observ. lib. 2. observ. 39. -f Hirutrou, B^tyfiK, coronale, iuverecundum, puppis, sensus communis, siricipitw. 'Mesial. E. + Lateral. E.58 or THE SKELETON. each external angular process, which they call tempo- ral processes ; but these are inconsiderable.—From the under part of the superciliary ridges, the frontal bone runs a great way backwards ; which parts may justly enough be called orbitar processes. These, contrary to the rest of this bone, are concave exter- nally, for receiving the globes of the eyes, with their muscles, fat, &c. In each of the orbitar processes, behind the middle of the superciliary ridges, a considerable sinuosity is observed, where the glandula innominata Galeni, or la- chrymalis, is lodged^ Behind each internal angular process, a small pit may be remarked, where the car- tilaginous pully of the mwculus obliquus major* of the eye is fixed. Betwixt the two orbitar processes, there xculr.mu ul^is a largeMiscontinuation of the bone, into which the cribriform part of the os ethmotdes is incased. Ine frontal bone frequently has little caverns formed in it here, where it is joined to the ethmoid bone.—Behind each external angular process, the surface of the fron- tal bone is considerably depressed where part of the temporal muscle is placed. Foramlnc. The foramina, or holes, observable on the external surface of the frontal bone, are three m each side.— One in each superciliary ridge, a little removed from its middle towards the nose ; through which a twig ot the ophthalmic branch of the fifth pair of nerves pas- ses out of the orbit, with a small artery from the in- ternal carotid, to be distributed to the teguments and muscles of the forehead.—These vessels in some skulls make furrows in the osfronlis, especially in the bones of children, as has also been observed of another con- siderable vessel of this bone near its middle («) ; and therefore we ought to beware of transverse incisions on either side of the os frontis, which might either open these vessels or hurt the nerves, while they are vet in part within the bone; for, when vessels are thus wounded, it is difficult to stop the haemorrhagy, be- * Obliquus superior oculi. Alb- E. W ftwch. Mus. anat. theca D. repos,t. 4. No. 3.59 OF THE SKELETON. cause the adhesion of a part of the artery to the bone hinders its contraction, and consequently styptics can have little effect; the sides of the furrow keep off compressing substances from the artery; and we would wish to shun cauteries or escharotics, because they make the bone carious ; and nerves thus hurt sometimes produce violent symptoms. But, to return to the superciliary foramina, we must remark, that often, instead of a hole, a notch only is to be- seen : Nay, in some skulls, scarcely a vestige even of this is left; in others, both hole and notch are observable, when the nerve and artery run separately. Frequent- ly a hole is found on one side, and a notch on the other; at other times we see two holes ; or there is a common hole without, and two distinct entries inter- nally. The reason of this variety of a hole, notch, de- pression, or smoothness in the superciliary ridge, is the different length and tension of the nerves and ves- sels ; the shorter they are, the more they are sunk into the bone as it grows.—Near the middle of the inside of each orbit, hard by, or in the transverse suture, there is a small hole for the passage of the nasal twig of the first branch of the fifth pair of nerves, and of a branch of the opthalmic artery. This hole is sometimes en- tirely formed in the osfrontis; in other skulls, the sides of it are composed of this last bone, and of the os planum. It is commonly known by the name of orbitarium internum, though anterius should be added, because of the next, which is commonly omitted.— This, which may be called orbitarium internum pos- terius, is such another as the former; only smaller, and about an inch deeper in the orbit: through it a small branch of the ocular artery passes to the nose. Besides these six, there is a great number of small holes observable on the outer surface of this bone, particularly in the two protuberances above the eye- brows. Most of these penetrate no further than the sinuses, or than the diploe, if the sinuses are wanting; though sometimes I have seen this bone so perforated by a vast number of these small holes, that, placedOF THE SKELETON. Go between the eye and a clear light, it appeared like a sieve.—In the orbit of the generality at skeletons, we may observe on., two, or more holes, which allow a passage to a hog's bristle through the skull. The place, size, and number of these, are however uncer- tain : They generally serve for the transmission of small arteries or nerves, internal or -phe internal surface of the os fronds is concave, Surface except at the orbitar processes, which are convex, to support the anterior lobes of the brain. This surface is not so smooth as the external; for the larger branches of the arteries of the dura mater make some furrows in its sides and back parts. The sinuosities from the luxuriant risings of the brain, mentioned when de- scribing the general structure of the cranium, are of- ten very observable on its upper part ; and its lower and foreparts are marked with the contorsions of the anterior lobes of the brain.—Through the middle of this internal suiface, where always in children, and sometimes in old people, the bone is divided, either a ridge stands out, to which the upper edge of the/<z/x is fastened, or a furrow runs, in which the upper side of the superior longitudinal sinus is lodged : on both these accounts chirurgical authors justly dissuade the application, of the trepan here The reason of this difference in skulls, is alleged by some authors to be this, That in thin skulls the ridge strengthens the bones, and in thick ones there is no occasion for it. To this way of accounting for this phenomenon, it may justly be objected, that generally very thick skulls have a large spine here, and frequently thin ones have only a furrow. Perhaps this variety may be owing; to the different times of complete ossification of those parts in different subjects : For if the two sides of this bone meet before they arrive at their utmost extent of growth, they unite very fii mly, and all their fibres endeavour to stretch themselves out where the least resistance is, that is, between the hemispheres of the brain. To support this reasoning, we may re- mark, that those adults, whose frontal bone is divid-OV THE SKELETON. 61 ed by the sagittal suture, never have a ridge in this place. Immediately at the root of this ridge or furrow, there is a smafl hole, which sometimes pierces through the first table, and, in other skulls, opens into the su- perior sinus of the ethmoid bone within the nose. In it a little process of the falx is lodged, and a small ar- tery, and sometimes a vein, runs (a) ; and the supe- rior longitudinal sinus begins here.—This hole, how- ever, is often not entirely proper to the os • rontis ; for in several skulls, the lower part of it is formed in the upper part of the base of the crista galli, which is a process of the ethmoid bone b). The os frontis is composed of two tables, and an Composi- intermediate diploe, as the other bones of the cranium uon« are, and, in a middle degree of thickness between the os occipilis and the parietal bones ; is pretty equally dense all through, except at the orbitar processes, where, by the action of the eye on one side, and pressure of the lobes of the brain on the other, it is made extremery thin and diaphanous, and the medi- tullium is entirely obliterated. Since in this place there is so weak a defence for the brain, the reason ap- pears why fencers esteem a push in the eye mortal (c). The diploe is also exhausted in that part above the Sinuses? eye-brows, were the two tables of the bone separate, by the external being protruded outwards, to form two large cavities, called sinus front ales. These are di- vided by a middle perpendicular bony partition. Tlicir capacities in the same subject are seldom equal; in some the right, in others the left is largest.—And in different bones their size is as inconstant; nay, I have examined some, where they were entirely want- ing: which oftener happens in such as have a flat forehead, and whose sagittal suture is continued down ('/) Morgagu, Adversar. 6. animad. 31. C) lugrass. Comment, in" Galeu. <Je ossib. cap. 1. com- ment. 8. ■ (. ) Rt.vsch. Observ. anat. dim observ. 54. Diemeibroeck. Anat. lib. 3. cap. 10. Bonet. Sepu'.cb. anat. lib. 4. 8 3. ob- •erv. 17.62 OF THE SKELETON. to the nose, than in others (a).—In some skulls, he- sides the large perpendicular septum, there are several bony pillars, or short partitions, found in each sinus; in others these are wanting. For the most part the septum is entire; at other times it is discontinued, and the two sinuses communicate. When the sinuses are seen in such skulls as have the frontal bone divided by the sagittal suture, the partition dividing these cavi- ties is evidently composed of two plates, which easily separate. Each sinus commonly opens by a roundish small hole, at the inner and lower part of the internal angular processes, into a sinus formed in the nose, at the upper and back part of the os unguis; near to which there are also some other small sinuses of this bone (6), the greater part of which open separately nearer the septum narium, and often they terminate in the same common canal with the large ones. Their uses. In a natural and sound state, these cavities are of considerable advantage ; for the organ of smelKng being thus enlarged, the effluvia of odorous bodies more difficultly escape it; and their impressions be- ing more numerous, are therefore stronger, and af- fect the organ more. That odorous particles may be applied to the membrane of the sinuses, is evident from the pain felt in this part of the forehead, when the effluvia of volatile spirits, or of strong aromatics, are drawn up into the nose by a quick inspiration. .. These and the other cavities which open into the nose, increase the sound of our voice, and render it more melodious, by serving as so many vaults to resound the notes. Hence people labouring under a coryza, ©r stoppage of the nose from any other cause, when they are by the vulgar, though falsely, said to speak through their nose, have such a dis- agreeable harsh voice. The liquor separated in the membrane of these sinuses, trickles down upon the membrane of the nose to keep it moist. (a) Fallop. Exposit. de ossibus, cap. 13. (b) Cowper in Drake's Autbiopolog. book. 3. chap. 10.OP THE SKELETON. 63 From the description of these sinuses, it is evident, i how useless, nay, how pernicious it must he, to apply i a trepan on this part of the skull; for this instrument, instead of piercing into the cavity of the cranium, would reach no further than the sinuses; or, if the in- ner table was perforated, any extravasated blood that happened to be within the skull, would not be dis- charged outwardly, but would fall into the sinuses, there to stagnate, corrupt, and stimulate the sensible i membranes; from which also there would be such a i constant flow of glairy mucus, as would retard, if not hinder a cure, and would make the sore degenerate ! into an incurable Jistula. Besides, as it would be al- most impossible in this case to prevent the air, pass- ing through the nose, from having constant access to the dura mater, or brain ; such a corruption would be brought on these parts, as would be attended with great danger. Further, in respiration, the air rush- ing violently into these cavities of the osfrontis, and passing through the external orifice, whenever it was not well covered and defended, would not only prevent the closing up of the external orifice, but might other- wise bring on bad consequences (a).—The membrane lining these sinuses is so sensible, that inflammations of it must create violent torture (b) ; and worms, or insects crawling there, must give great uneasiness (c). The upper circular part of the os frontis, is joined Connexion to the ossa parielalia, from one temple to the other, by the coronal suture. From the termination of the coronal suture to the external angular processes, this bone is connected to the sphenoid by the sphenoidal suture. At the external canthi of the eyes, its an- gular processes are joined by the transverse suture to the ossa malarum, to which it adheres one third down the outside of the orbits ; whence to the bottom of (a) Paaw, de Ossibus, pars. 1. cap. 7.—Palfyne Anatom. chir. traite 4. chap. 15. Nouvelle osteologie, partie Q. chap. 3. (£) Fernel. Patholog. lib. 5. cap. 7.—Saltzman Decur. ob- serv. 10. (c) Fernel. Patholog. lib. 5. cap. 7.—Bartholin. Epistol. medic, cent 2. epist. 74.—Hist. d»l'acad. des sciences, 1708 & 1733.64i OF THE SKELETON. these cavities, and a little up on their internal sides, these orbitar processes are connected to the sphenoidal bone by that same suture.—In some few skulls, how- ever, a discontinuation of these two bones appears at the upper part of the long slit, near the bottom of the orbit.—On the inside of each orbit, the orbitar process is indented between the cribriform part of the ethmoid bone, and the os planum and unguis.—The transverse suture afterwards joins the frontal bone to the superior nasal processes of the ossa maxillaria snperiora, and to the nasal bones. And, lastly, its nasal process is connected to the nasal lamella of the ethmoid bone. Uses. The ronial bone serves to defend and support the anterior lobes of the brain. It forms a considerable part of the cavities that contain the globes of the eyes, helps to make up the septum narium, organ of smelling, &c. From the description of the several parts, the other uses of this bone are evident. State at In a ripe child, the frontal bone is divided through Birth. the middle ; the superciliary holes are not formed ;. often a small round piece of each orbitar process, behind the superciliary ridge, is not ossified, and there is no 'sinus to be seen within its substance. Parietal Each of the two ossa parietalia *, or bones serv- Buues. ing as walls to the encephalon, is an irregular square; , its upper f and fore sides being longer than the one behind || or below IT. The inferior side is a concave arch ; the middle part receiving the upper round part of the temporal bone.— The angle formed by this upper side, and the fore one is so extended, as to have the appearance of a process. External The external surface of each os parielale is convex. Surface. Upon it, somewhat below the middle height of the bone, there is a transverse arched ridge, generally of a whiter colour than any other part of the bone; from * Kofvfvs, paria, sineipitis, verticis, arcualia, nervalia, c»- gitaii..in» rationis, bregmatis, medefactionis. f Mesial. E. % Glabellar. E. || Irvad. E. % Basilad. .. I "OF THE SKELETON. 65 which, in bones that have strong prints of muscles, we see a great many converging furrows, like so many radii drawn from a circumference towards a i centre. From this ridge of each bone the temporal muscle rises ; and, by the pressure of its fibres, oc- S easions the furrows just now mentioned.—Below these, we observe, near the semicircular edges, a great I many risings and depressions, which are joined to like i inequalities on the inside of the temporal bone, to form the squamous suture. The temporal bone may there- fore serve here as a buttress, to prevent the lower j side of the parietal from starting outwards when its upper part is pressed or struck (a). Near the upper sides of these bones, towards the Foiamcu. hind part, is a small hole in each, through which a ^vcin passes from the teguments of the head to the longitudinal sinus: Sometimes I have seen a branch of the temporal artery pass through this hole, to be distributed to the upper part of the falx, and to the dura mater at-its sides, where it had frequent anasto- moses with the branches of the arteries derived from the external carotids, which commonly have the name of the arteries of the dura mater, and with the branches of the internal carotids which serve the falx. In several skulls, one of the ossa parielalia has not this hole; in others, there are two in one bone; and in some not one in either. Most frequently this hole is through both tables ; at other times the external table only is perforated.—The knowledge of the course of these vessels, may be of use to surgeons, when they make any incision near this part of the head, lest, if the vessels are rashly cut near the hole, they shrink within the substance of the bone, and so cause an obstinate ha?morrhagy, which neither ligatures nor medicines can stop. On the inner concave surface of the parietal bones, Internal we see a great man}' deep furrows, disposed somewhat Surface like the branches of trees : The furrows are largest and deepest at the lower edge of each os parietale, es- (a) Hunauld in Mem. de l'acad. des sciences, 1730.66 OF THE SKELETON. pecially near its anterior angle, where sometimes a full canal is formed. They afterwards divide into small furrows, in their progress upwards.—In some skulls a large furrow begins at the hole near the up- " per edge, and divides into branches, which join with those which come upwards, shewing the communica- tions of the upper and lower vessels of the dura mater. —In these furrows we frequently see passages into the diploe; and sometimes I have observed canals going off, which allowed a small probe to pass some inches into the bony substance. Some (a) tell us,' that they have observed these canals piercing the bone towards the occiput.—On the inside of the upper edge of the ossa parictalia, there is a large sinuosity, frequently larger in the bone of one side than of the other, where the upper part of the falx is fastened, and the superior longitudinal sinus is lodged.—Gene- rally part of the lateral sinuses makes a depression near the angle, formed by the lower and posterior sides of these bones ; and the pits made by the pro- minent parts of the brain are to be seen in no part of the skull more frequent, or more considerable, than in the internal surface of the parietal bones. Substance. The ossa parictalia are among the thinnest bones of the cranium ; but enjoy the general structure of two tables and diploe the completest, a.nd are the most equal and smooth. Connexion. These bones are joined at their fore-side to the o*. froutis by the coronal suture; at their long inferior angles, to the sphenoid bone, by part of the s,uture of this name ; at their lower edge, to the ossa iemporunty by the squamous suture, and its posterior additamen- tum; behind, to the os occipitis, or ossa triquelra, by the lambdoid suture ; and above, to one another, by the sagittal suture. ITsegt They have no particular uses besides those men- tioned in the description of their several parts, except what are included in the account of the general struc- ture of the cranium.. Or) Cowper, Anatom. explic. of 90. tab. fig. 2>OF THE SKELETON. 6.7 In a child born at the full time, none of the sides of this bone are completed ; and there never is a hole in the ossified part of it near to the sagittal suture. The large unossified ligamentous part of the cm- 1 nium observable between the parietal bones, and the middle of the divided osfrontis of new-born children, called by the vulgar, the open of the head, was ima- gined by the antients to serve for the evacuation of the superfluous moisture of the brain ; and therefore they named it bregma*, or the fountain; sometimes adding the epithet pulsatilis, or beating, on account of the pulsation of the brain felt through this flexible hgamento-cartilaginous substance. Hence very fre- quently the parietal bones are called ossa bregmahs. The upper middle part of the head of a child, in a natural birth, being what presents itself first at the os uteri (a), an accoucheur may reach the bregma with his finger, when the os uteri is a little opened. If the bregma is stretched, and the pulsation of the brain is felt through it, the child is certainly alive : But if it is shrivelled and flaccid, without any ob- servable pulsation in it, there is some reason to sus- pect the child to be very weak, or dead. Those who practice midwifery should therefore examine the state of the bregma accurately. All the bregma is generally ossified before seven- years of age. Several authors (6) say, they have observed it unossified in adults ; and physicians, who order the application of medicines at the meet- ing of the coronal and sagittal sutures, seem yet to tlnnk that a derivation of noxious humours from the enccphalon is more easily procured at this part than any other of the skull; and that medicines have a greater effect here, than elsewhere, in the internal disorders of the head. * Palpitans vertex, foliolum, folium, triangularis lacuna. (a) Burton's Midwifery, § 51.—Smellie's Midwifery, book I. chap. 1. § 5. (J) Bartholin. Anat. reform, lib. 4. cap. 6.—Diemerbroeck Anat. lib. 9. cap. 6.—Kerkring. Osteogen, cap. 2.68 OF THE SKELETON. * Mcsiad. E. Temporal OSS A TEMPORUM* so named, say authors, Houcs. from the hairs first becoming gray on the temples, and thus discovering people's ages, are each of them equal and smooth above, with a very thin semicir- cular edge; which, from the manner of its connexion with the neigbouring bones, is distinguished by the name of os squamosum.—Behind this, the upper part of the temporal bone is thicker, and more unequal, and is sometimes described as a distinct part, under the name of pars mammillaris (a).—Towards the base of the skull, the temporal bone appears very irregular and unequal; and this part, instead of being broad,, and placed perpendicularly* as the others are, is con- tracted into an oblong very hard substance, extended horizontally forwards and inwards*, which in its pro- gress becomes smaller, and is commonly called os pe- trositm. External Three external processes of each temporal bone are Processes, generally described.—The first placed at the lower and hind part of the bone, from its resemblance to a nipple, is called masloides, or mammillaris. It is not solid, but within is composed of cancelli, or small cells, which have a communication with the large cavity of the ear, the drum ; and therefore sounds, being multiplied in this vaulted labyrinth, are in- creased, before they are applied to the immediate organ c-f hearing. Into the mastoid process, the ster* nomastoidcus muscle is inserted; and to its back part, where the surface is rough, the Irachelomastoideas, and part of the splenitis are fixed.—About an inch farther forward, the second process begins to rise out from the bone; and having its origin continued obliquely downwards and forwards for some way, it becomes smaller, and is stretched forwards to join with the os malce; they together forming the bony jtigum, under tvhich the temporal muscle passes. Hence this pro- * KgorscQuii Ki^toit. xe^sm, XiviltiiSti, *a\u(i$>i> kiStsiStt, tem- poralia, iapidosa, inenika.i, Uura, arcualia, tymp&rum, aruia- lia, saxea, parietalia. (<i) Albin. ile ossib. § 26.69 OF THE SKELETON. eess has been named zygomatic*'. Its upper edge has the strong aponeurosis of the temporal muscle fixed into it; and its lower part gives rise to a share of the masseler.—The fore-part of the base of this process is an oblong tubercle, which in a recent subject is covered with a smooth polished cartilage, continued from that which lines the cavity immediately be- hind this tubercle—from the under craggy part of the -os temporum, the third process stands out obliquely forwards. The shape of it is generally said to re- semble the ancient stylus scriplorius ; and therefore it is called the styloid processf. Some authors (a) however contend, that it ought to be named steloid, from its being more like to a pillar. Several muscles have their origin frcm this process, and borrow one half of their name from it; as stylo-glossus, stylo- hyoideus, stxjlo-pharyngeus ; to it a ligament of the os hyoides is sometimes fixed; and another is extended from it to the inside of the angle of the lower jaw. This process is often even in adults not entirely ossi- fied, but is ligamentous at its root, and sometimes is composed of two or three distinct pieces.—-Round the root of it, especially at the fore-part, there is a re- markable rising of the os petrosum, which some have esteemed a process; and, from the appearance it makes with the styliform, have named it vaginalis.— Others again have, under the name of auditory pro- cess, reckoned among the external processes that se- micircular ridge, which, running between the root of the mastoid and zygomatic processes, forms the un- der-part of the external meatus auditorius. The sinuosities or depressions on the external sur- Depres- face of each os temporum are these:-—A \ox\g fossa at sions. the inner and back part of the root of the mammary proccess, where the posterior head of the diga tric% * Kxyxgts, paris, ansae ossiuui temporum, ossa arcualia, pa- ria, jugana, ronjn^alia. ■f T£tt,i<pnt&r\, &iX»vtt3», vXnKrgM, os calaminum, sagittale, clavali-, aouale, calcar capitis. . (a) Galen, de usu part. lib. 2. cap. 4.—'Fallop. Observ. ana- tbm. % Bivcnter maxillre. Alb. E;OP THE SKELETON. 70 H Mesiad. E- muscle lias its origin.—Immediately before the root of the zygomatic process, a considerable hollow is left, for lodging the crotaphite* muscle.—Between the zygomatic, auditory, and vaginal processes, a large cavity is formed ; through the middle of which, from top to bottom, a fissure is observable, into which part of the ligament that secures the articulation of the lower jaw with this bone is fixed. The fore-part of the cavity being lined with the same cartilage which covers the tubercle before it, receives the condyle of the jaw ; and in the back-part a small share of the parotid gland, and a cellular fatty substance, are lodged.—At the inside of the root of the styloid apo- pkyse, there is a thimble-like cavity, where the begin- ning of the internal jugular vein, or end of the lateral sinus is lodged.—And as the sinuses of the two sides are frequently of unequal size; so one of these cavi- ties is as often larger than the other (a).—Round the external meatus audiiorius, several sinuosities are formed for. receiving the cartilages and ligaments of the ear, and for their firm adhesion. Foramina. The holes that commonly appear on the outside of each of these bones, and are proper to each of them, are five.—The Jirst, situated between the zygomatic and mastoid processes, is the orifice of a large funnel- like canal, which leads to the organ of hearing ; there- fore is called meatus auditorius exterhusi.—The second gives passage to the portio dura of the seventh pair of nerves, and from its situation between the mastoid and styloid processes, is called foramen stylo-mastoi- deum%.—Some way before, and to the inside || of the styloid process, is the third hole; the canal from which runs first upwards, then forwards, and receives into it the internal carotid artery, and the beginning of the intercostal nerve; where this canal is about to make the turn forwards, one, or sometimes two very » Temporal muscle. E. (a)"Hi nauld. in Mem. de. I'acad. des sciences, 1 <JU. f TLiffts rut fenestra auriuro. + Aquaeductus Fallopii.OF THE SKELEfotf. Tl fa) De aure l.umana, cap. 2. §. 22. et tab. 7. fig. 1. small holes go off towards the cavity of the ear called i tympanum: through these Valsalva{a) affirms the pro- per artery or arteries of that cavity are sent.—On the , anterior edge of this bone, near the former, a fourth i hole is observable, being the orifice of a canal which runs outwards and backwards, in a horizontal direc- tion, till it terminates in the tympanum. This, in the i recent subject, is continued forward and inward, from the parts which I mentioned just now as its orifice in ! the skeleton, to the side of the nostrils; being partly cartilaginous, and part'y ligamentous. The whole canal is named, Iter a palato ad aurem, or Eustachian tube.—On the external side of the bony part of this canal, and above the chink in the cavity that re- ceives the condyle of the lower jaw, is the course of the little nerve said commonly to be reflected from the lingual branch of the fifth 'pair, till it enters the tympanum, to run across this cavity, and to have the name of chorda iympani.—The fifth hole is very un- certain, appearing sometimes behind the mastoid pro- cess ; sometimes it is common to the temporal and oc- cipital bones; and in several skulls there is no such hole. The use of it, when found, is for the transmis- sion of a vein from the external teguments to the lateral sinus: But, in some subjects, a branch of the occipital artery passes through this hole, to serve the back-part of the dura mater; in others, I have seen two or three such holes : But they are oftener wanting than found. And we may, once for all, in general remark, That the largeness, number, situation, and existence of all such holes, that for the most part al- low only a passage for veins from without to the in- terna! receptacles, are very uncertain. The internal surface of the ossa temporum is un- Internal equal; the upper circular edge of the squamous part Surface having numerous small ridges and furrows for its con- junction with the parietal bones ; and the rest of it is irregularly marked with the convolutions of the mid-OF THE SKELETON. 72 die part of the brain, and with furrows made by the branches of the arteries of the dura maler. Petrous From the imder-part of this internal surface, a Portion. larger transverse hard craggy protuberance runs hori- zontally inwards and forwards, with a sharp edge above, and two flat sides, one facing obliquely for- wards and outwards*, and the other as much back- wards and inwards t. To the ridge between these two sides, the large lateral process of the dura maler is fixed. Sometimes a small bone, a-kin to the sesamoid, is found between the small end of this petrous process and the sphenoid bone (a) Towards the back-part of the inside of the os iem- porum, a large deep fossa is conspicuous, where the lateral sinus lies ; and frequently on the top of the petrous ridge, a furrow may be observed, where a small sinus is situated. Foramina. The internal proper foramina of each of these bones are, first, the internal meatus auditorius in the posterior plain side of the petrous process. This hole soon divides into two ; one of which is the beginning of the aquceduct ofFallopiusi the other ends in several very small canals (b), that allow a passage to the branches of the portio mollis of the seventh pair of nerves, into the veslibide and cochlea. Through it also an artery is sent, to be distributed to the organ of s hearing.—The second hole, which is on the anterior plain side of the craggy process, gives passage to a re- flected branch of the second branch of the fifth pair of nerves, which joins the portio dura of the auditory nerve, while it is in the aquceduct (c), small branches of blood vessels accompanying the nerves or passing through smaller holes near this one.—The passage of the cutaneous vein into the lateral sinus, or of a branch * Glabellad and lateracl. E. -J- jtniad and mesind. E. ((/) Riolan. Comment, de ossib. cap. 32.—Winslow, Exposi- tion anatomiqm de corps humain, trait, dps os sees. §. 2GC. (&) Valsalv. De anie humana, cap. 3. § 11. (••) Valsalv. De arm?, cVp. 3. § It'.OP THE SKELETON. of the occipital artery, is seen about the middle (of the large/os«r for that sinus ; and the orifice of the canal of the carotid artery is evident at the under part of the point of the petrous process. Besides these proper holes of the temporal bones which appear on their external and internal surfaces, there are two others in each side that are common to this bone and to the occipital and sphenoidal bones; which shall be mentioned afterwards in the descrip- tion of these bones. The upper round part of the squamous bones is thin, but equal; while the low petrous part is thick and strong, but irregular and unequal, having the dis- tinction of tables and diploe confounded, with several cavities, processes, and bones within its substance, which are parts of the organ of hearing. That a clear idea may be had of this beautiful, but intricate organ, anatomists generally chuse to demonstrate all its parts together. I think the method good ; and there- fore, since it would be improper to insert a complete treatise on the ear here, shall omit the description of the parts contained within the os petrosum of the skeleton*. The temporal bones are joined above to the parietal Connexion, bones by the squamous sutures, and their posterior additamenta: Before, to the sphenoid bone by the suture of that name'; to the cheek-bones by the zygomatic sutures: Behind, to the occipital bone, by the lambdoid suture and its additamenta; and they are articulated with the lower jaw in the manner which shall be described when this bone is examined. The purposes which these two bones serve, are Uses, easily collected, from the general use of the cranium, and from what has been said in the description of their several parts. In an infant, a small fissure is to be observed be- State at tween the thin upper part, and the lower craggy part Birtn' of each of these bones ; which points out the recent union of these parts.—Neither mastoid nor styloid * See Alb'.ni Annotat. Academ. vol. 1. E. EOF THE SKELETON. 74- processes are yet to be seen.—Instead of a bony fun- nel-like external meatus audilorius, there is only a smooth bony ring, within which the membrane of the drum is fastened.—At the entry of the Eustachian tube, the side of the tympanum is not completed. A little more outward than the internal auditory canal, there is a deep pit, over the upper part of whose ori- fice the interior semicircular canal of the ear is stretch- ed ; and some way below this, the posterior semicir- cular canal also appears manifestly. Occipital Os Occipitis *, so called from its situation, is con- vex on the outside, and concave internally. Its figure is an irregular square, or rather rhomboid; of which the angle above is generally a little rounded • the two lateral angles are more finished, but obtuse; and the lower is stretched forward in form of a wedge, and thence is called by some the cuneiform process.— If one would, however, be very nice in observing the several turns which the edges of the os occipitis make, five or seven sides and as many angles of this bone might be described. External The external surface is convex, except at the cu- Surface. neiform apophyse, where it is flatted. At the base of this triangular process, on each side of the great hole, but more advanced forwards than the middle of it, appear the large oblong protuberances, named the condyles, to serve for the articulation of this bone with Condyles, the first vertebra of the neck. The smooth surface of each of these condyloid processes is longest from behind forwards, where, by their oblique situation, they come much nearer to each other than they are at their back part. Their inner | sides are lower than the external %, by which they are prevented from slid- ing to either side out of the cavities of the first ver- tebra (a). In some subjects each of these plain smooth surfaces seems to be divided by a small rising in ita * Iwav; basilare, prone, memoriae, pixidis, fibrosum, nervo* ■ sum, lambde. + Mesial. E. % Lateral. E. (a) Galeu. de usu part. lib. 12. cap. 7.OF THE SKELETON. 75 E 2 niddle; and the lower edge of each condyle, next the >reat foramen, is discontinued about the middle, by in intervening notch: Whence some («) allege, that :ach of these apophyses is made up of two protu- lerances.—Round their root a small depression and pongy roughness is observable, where the ligaments or surrounding and securing their articulations ad- ore.—Though the motion of the head is performed n the condyles, yet the centre of gravity of that lobe does not fall between them, but is a good way irther forward; from which mechanism it is evident, lat the muscles which pull the head back, must be 1 a constant state of contraction; which is stronger lan the natural contraction of the proper flexors, se the head would always fall forwards, as it does hen a man is asleep, or labours under a palsy, as ell as in infants, where the weight of the head far cceeds the proportional strength of these muscles, his seeming disadvantageous situation of the con- ges is however of good use to us, by allowing suffi- ent space for the cavities of the mouth and fauces, id for lodging a sufficient number of muscles, which mmonly serve for other uses; but may at pleasure : directed to act on the head, and then have an ad- intageous lever to act with, sq as to be able to sus- m a considerable weight appended, or other force plied, to pull the head back. Somewhat more externally * than the condyles, Denres- ere is a small rising and semilunated hollow in each sjons a„d le, which make part of the holes, common to the RiJSes- npital and petrous bones.—Immediately behind is, on each side, a scabrous ridge is extended from ? m.ddle of the condyle, towards the root of the stoid process. Into this ridge the musculus lalera- t, common y ascribed to Fallopius, is inserted.— •out the middle of the external convex surface, a Arches ge arch runs-cross the bone; from the upper late- i) Diemerbroeck, Anat. lib. 9. cap. 6. Laternd. E. • Rectus capitis lateralis, Alb. E.76 OF THE SKELETON. ral parts of which the occipital muscles have their rise to its middle the trapezii are attached ; and half wa between this and the great hole, a lesser arch is ei tended.—In the hollows between the middle of thet arches the complexi are inserted; and in the deprei sions more external and further forward than these the splenii are inserted.—Between the middle of th lesser arch and the great hole, the little hollow mart of the recti minores * appear; and on each side ( these the fleshly insertions of the obliqui superiort and recti majores f make depressions.—Through th middle of the two arches a small sharp spine is placet which serves as some sort of partition between th muscles of different sides, or rather is owing to th action of the muscles depressing the bone on eac side of it, while this part is free from their compret sion. These prints of the muscles on this bone ai very strong and plain in some subjects, but are nc so distinct in others.—All round the great forame the edges are unequal, for the firmer adhesion of th strong circular'ligament which goes thence to the firs vertebra.— One end of each lateral or moderator ligs ment of the head, is fixed to a rough surface at th fore-part of each condyle, and the perpendicular od is connected to a rough part of the edge of the gra hole between the two condyles.—Immediately befoi the condyles, two little depressions are made in th external1 suface of the cuneiform process, for the ir sertion of the recti anleriores minores % muscles, whic are unjustly ascribed -to Cotvper i and still furtl forward, near the sphenoid bone, are two other sue depressions, for the reception of the recti antcrion majores ||.—When we consider the size of the pruj of muscles on the occipital bone, before, and belia its condyles, and at the same time, compare the distances from these centres of motion of the head, w must see how much stronger the muscles are whio • Reoti capitis postici minores. Alb. E. + Recti capitis postici majores. Alb. E. X Recti capitis intemi minores. Aib. E. |j Recti capitis interni majores. Alb. E.OF THE SKELETON". 77 E 3 I mil the head backwards, than those arc which bend ; forward ; and how much greater force the former cquire by the long lever they act with, than the lat- er which are inserted so near the condyles. This reat force in the extensor muscles fs altogether nc- essary, that they might not only keep the head from tiling forward in an erect posture, but that they light support it when we bow forward in the most ecessary offices of social life, when the weight of the ead comes to act at right angles on the vertebras of ~ie neck, and obtains a long lever to act with. On the inner surface of the os occipilis we'see two futemal idges ; one standing perpendicular, the other run- Surface* ing horizontally across the first. The upper part f the perpendicular limb of the cross, to which the ilx is fixed, is hollowed in the middle, or often on ne side, for the reception of the superior longitudinal- Inus, and the lower part of it has the small or third rocess of the dura mater fastened to it, and is somes mes hoi 1 owed by the occipital sinus. Each side of ie horizontal limb is made hollow by the lateral sin- ses inclosed in the transverse process of the dura later ; the fossa in the right side being generally a mtinuation of the one made by the longitudinal sinus 1 the perpendicular limb, and therefore is larger than le left one («.)—Hound the middle of the cross there re four large depressions separated by its limbs ; the vo upper ones being formed by the back part of the rain, and the two lower ones by the cerebellum.— "arther forward than the last mentioned depressions, } the lower part of the fossa for the lateral sinus on ach side.—The inner surface of the cuneiform apo- hyse is made concave for the reception of the medulla bloiigala, and of the basilar artery.—A furrow is lade on each side, near the edges of this process, by sinus of the dura mater, which empties itself into he lateral sinus (6). The holes of this bone are commonly five proper, p nd two common to it and. to the temporal bones °m"m (a) Mors>a^n. Advers. anat 6. animad. 1. (b) Alb in. de ossib. § 05.•P THE SKELETON. The first of the proper holes, called foramen magnum irom its size, is immediately behind the wedge-lik process, and allows a passage to the medulla oblongaU vcrvi acccssorii, to the vertebral arteries, and some times to the vertebral veins.—At each side of thi great hole, near its fore-part, and immediately abov the condyles, we always find a hole, sometimes twc which soon unite again into one that opens externally* through these the ninth pair of nerves go out of th skull.—The fourth and fifth holes pierce from behiw the condyle of each side into xhefossce of the latera sinuses ; they serve for the passage of the cervica veins to these sinuses. Often one of these holes i wanting, sometimes both, when the veins pass througl. the great foramen.—-Besides these five, we frequently jffirst with other holes near the edges of this bene, fo. the transmission of vcin-j ; but their liumbei- and dia. meter are very uncertain. The two common fora> miiia are the large irregular holes, one on each side, bd tween the sides of the cuneiform process, and the edge* of the petrous bones. In a recent subject, a strong membrane runs across from one-side to the other on each of these holes ; in some heads I have seen thii: membrane ossified, or a bony partition dividing each hole; and, in the greater number of adult skulls, ther< is a small sharp-pointed process stands out from tho os pelrosum, and a more obtuse rising in the occipita; bone, between which the partition is stretched. Be-, hind this partition, where, the largest space is left, the lateral sinus has its passage; and before it the eighth pair of nerves and accessorius make their exit out oi the skull ; and some authors say, an artery passe* through this hole, to be bestowed on the dura mater. Substanc . The occipital bone is among the thickest of th* cranium, though unequally so; for it is stronger above*' where it has no other defence than the common tegn* ments, than it is below, where being pressed by the lobes of the brain and cerebellum on one side, and by the action of the muscles on the other, it is so very * Hachitit'is, Medulte spinalis.OP THE SKELETON. 79 thin, as in many skulls to be diaphanous : But then these muscles ward off' injuries, and the ridges and spines, which are frequent here, make it sufficiently strong to resist ordinary forces. The tables and diploe are tolerably distinct in this bone, except where it is so thin as to become diaphanous. The occipital bone is joined above to the ossa pa- Connexion. rietalia and triqucira when present, by the lambdoid suture ;—laterally to the temporal bones, by the ad- diiamenla of the lambdoid suture;—below to the sphe- noid bone, by the end of its cuneiform process, in the same way that epiphyses and their bones are joined: For in children a ligamentous cartilage is interposed between the occipital and sphenoid bones, which gra- dually turns thinner, as each of the bones advances, till their fibres at last run into each other; and, about sixteen or eighteen years of age, the union of these two bones becomes so intimate, that a separation can- not be made without violence,—The os occipilis is joined by a double articulation to the first vertebra of the neck, each condyle being received into a superior oblique process of that vertebra. What motion is al- lowed here, we shall consider afterwards, where the vertebrce are described. The uses of this bone appear from the preceding JXsbs. description, and therefore need not be repeated. An infant born at the full time, has this bone di- State at vided, by unossified cartilages, into four parts The Billh- first of these is larger than the other three, is of a triangular shape, and constitutes all the part of the bone above the great foramen. Generally fissures appear in the upper part and sides of this triangular bone, when all the cartilage is separated by macera- tion ; and sometimes little distinct bones are seen to- wards the edges of it.—The second and third pieces ot this bone are exactly alike, and situated on caclv side of tne great foramen ; from which very nearly the whole condyles are produced ; and they are ex- tended forwards almost to the forepart of the hole for the ninth pair of nerves.—The fourth piece is the cuneiform process, which forms a small share of theOF THE SKELETON'. t>0 great hole, "and of those for the ninth pair of nerves, and of the condyles: betwixt it and the sphenoid bone- a cartilage is interposed. Of the eight bones which belong to the cranium,. there are only two which are not yet described, viz.. the ethmoid and sphenoid. These we already men-- tioned, in complaisance to the generality of writers on this subject, as bones common to the cranium andi face, because they enter into the composition 6f both : but the same reason might equally be used for calling: the frontal bone a common one too. I shall, however, pass by any idle dispute about the propriety of rang-- ing them, and proceed to examine the structure of; the bones themselves. Ethmoid Os Ethmoides *, or the sieve-like bone, has got Hon\ j{S J)ame from the great number of small holes withi which that part of it first taken notice of is pierced.. When this bone is entire, the figure of it is not easily described ; but, by a detail of its several parts, some? idea may be afforded of the whole; and therefore II shall distinguish it into the cribriform lamella with its I process, the nasal jamella, cellulce, and ossa spo?igiosa.. Cribriform The thin horizontal lamella, is all (except its back-- 1 late. part) .pierced obliquely by a great number of small I holes, through which the filaments of the olfactory nerves pass. In a recent subject, these holes are so i closely lined by the dura mater, that they are mucin CivtaGalii. ]ess conspicuous than in the skeleton.—From the mid- ■ die of the internal f side of this place, a thick process I rises upwards, and, being highest at the fore-part,, gradually becomes lower, as it is extended backwards. From some resemblance which this process was ima- • gined to have to a cock's comb, it has been called crista galli J. The falx is connected to its ridge, and to the imperforated part of the cribriform plate.—>| When the crista is broken, its base is sometimes' found to be hollow, with its cavity opening into the; * Cribriforme, axtvyoulyis, spon^iforme, crista;urn. •f Coronal. E. X Verruca praedura, septem ossis spongiosi.Of THE SKELETON. 81 nose (a).-—Immediately before the highest part of this process, is the blind hole of the frontal bone, which, as was formerly remarked, is often in a good measure formed by a notch in the fore-part of the root of the crista. From the middle of the outer surface of the cribri- Nasal form lamella,a thin solid plate is extended downwards Pi:ite- and forwards, having the same common base with the crista ga/li. Generally it is not exactly perpendicu- lar, but is inclined to one side or other, and therefore divides the cavity of the nose unequally. Its inclina- tion to one side, and flexure in the middle, is some- times so great, that it fills up a large share of one of the nostrils, and has been mistaken for a polypus there. —It is thin at its rise, and rather still thinner in its middle ; yet afterwards, towards its lower edge, it becomes thicker, that its conjunction with the bones and middle cartilage of the nose might be firmer. At a little distance from each side of this external Celhte. process, a cellular and spongy bony substance de- pends from the cribriform plate. The number and / figure of the cells in this irregular process of each side, are very uncertain, and not to be represented in words ; only the cells open into each other, and into the cavity of the nose: The uppermost, which are below the aperture of the frontal sinuses, are formed like funnels.—The outer surface of these cells is 0«a Plana* smooth and plain, where this bone assists in compos- ing the orbit; at which place, on each side, it has got the name of os planum: on the upper edge of which, a small notch or two may sometimes be ob- served which go to the formation of the internal or- bitar holes; as was remarked in the description of tne Irontal bone. Below the cells of each side, a thin plate is extended Superior inwards, and then bending down, it becomes thick andI of a spongy texture.-This spongy part is trian- B°"es- gu ar.with a straight upper edge placed horizontally, m anterior one slanting from above, downwards and m Palfyn, Anat. chir. tr. 4. chap. 15.82 OF THE SKELETON. forwards, and with a pendulous convex one below..- The upper and lower edges terminate in a sharp point behind.—The side of this pendulous spongy part next to the septum narium is convex, and its external side is concave.—These two processes of the ethmoid bone have got the name of ossa spongiosa, or turbinata su- periora, from their substance, figure, and situation. C annexion. All the prominences, cavities, and meanders of this ethmoid bone, are covered with a continuation of the membrane of the nostrils, in a recent subject.—Its horizontal cribriform plate is lodged between the or- bitar processes of the frontal bone, to which it is join- ed by the ethmoid suture, except at the back-part; where it is connected with the cuneiform bone, by a suture common to both these bones, though it is ge- nerally esteemed part of the sphenoidal.—Where the ossa plana are contiguous to the frcntal bone within I he orbit, their conjunction is reckoned part of the transverse suture.—Farther forward than the ossa plana, the cells are covered by the ossa unguis, which are not only contiguous to these cells, but cannot be separated from them, without breaking the bony sub- stance; and therefore, in justice, those bones ought to be demonstrated as part of the ethmoid bone.—Be- low the ossa unguis and plana, these cells and ossa spongiosa are overlapped by the maxillary bones.— The cellular part of each palate bone is contiguous to each os planum and cells backwards.—The lower edge of the nasal perpendicular plate is received into the furrow of the vomer.—Its posterior edge is joined to the fore-part of the processus azygos of the sphe- ?ioid bone.—Its upper edge joins the nasal process of the frontal and nasal bones, and its anterior one is connected to the middle cartilage of the nose. Uses. From all which, the uses of this bone are evident, viz. to sustain the an»erior lobes of the brain; to givet passage to the olfactory nerves, and attachment to the- j'alx ; to enlarge the organ of smelling, by allowing the membrane of the nose a great extent; to straiten the passage of the air through the nose, by leaving only a narrow winding canal, on the sensible mem-OF THE SKELETON". 83 branous sides of which the substances conveyed along with the air must strike ; to form part of the orbit of the eyes and septumnarium; while all its parts are so light as not to be in hazard of separating by their weight; and they are so thin, as to form a large sur- face, without occupying much space.—This brittle substance, however, is sufficiently protected from ex- ternal injuries by the firm bones which cover it. If this bone is seized on by any corroding matter, Diseases, we may easily conceive what destruction may ensue. Hence it is, that an ozaena is difficult to cure; and . that, in violent scurvies or in the lues venerea, the fabric of the nose, the eyes, and life itself are in danger.—The situation of the nasal plate may shew us, how dangerous a fracture of the bones of the nose may be, when made by a force applied to their mid- dle fore-part, of a person in whom this nasal plate is perpendicular. The ethmoid bone of ripe children is divided into State at two, by a perpendicular cartilage, which, when ossi- Bfosh;. fied, is the crista galli, and nasal plate r but its other parts are ossified and complete. OsSphenoides *, or wedge-like bone, so called be- Sphenoid cause of its situation in the middle of the bones of the Bune. cranium and face, is of such an irregular figure, that I know not any thing to which it may be likened, unless, perhaps, it bear some faint resemblance to a bat with its wings extended. When we view the external surface of the os sphe- External noidcs, two or three remarkable processes from each Surface, side of it may be observed, which are all of them subdivided.—The first pair form the two*arge Processes, lateral processes or wings ; the upper part of each of which is called the temporal process, because they join with the temporal bones in forming the temples, and the seat for some shareof the crotaphitef muscles. That part of the wings which juts out towards the * Cuueiforme, wtXvpotfM, niu!ti<bimr, paxi'lum, cr:b/atum * palati, eolatorii, cavilla, basilare. r f Temporal n uscles. E.84. OF THE SKELETON. inside, somewhat lower than the temporal apophyses, and is smooth and hollowed, where it makes up part of the orbit, is thence named orbilar process. Behind the edge, separating these two processes, there is often a small groove, made by a branch of the superior maxillary nerve, in its passage to the temporal muscle. The lowest and back-part of each wing, which runs out sharp to meet the ossa pelrosa, has been styled the spinotis process : From near the point of which a sharp pointed process is frequently produced down- wards, which some call styliform, that affords origin to the plery-staphylinus cxternus muscle. From this styloid process a very small groove is, extended along the edge of the bone to the hollow at the root of the internal plate of the following processes, which forms part of the Eustachian tube (a).—The second pair of external processes of the cuneiform bone is the two which stand out almost perpendicular to the base of the skull. Each of them has two plates, and a middle fossa facing backwards, and should, to carry on our comparison, be likened to the bat's legs, but are com- monly said to resemble the wings of that creature ; and^ therefore are named pterygoid or aliform* pro- cesses. The external f plates are broadest, and the internal + are longest. From each side of the ex- ternal plates, the pterygoid muscles take their rise. At the root of each internal plate, a small hollow may be remarked, where the muscidis ptery-staphylinus in- ternus, or circumflexus palati rises, and some share of the cartilaginous end of the Eustachian tube rests ; and, at the lower end of the same plate,'is a hook-like rising or process, round which the tendon of the last named muscle plays, as on a pulley. From the edge of the external plates some small sharp spikes stand out; but their number and bulk are uncertain.—To these another pair may be added, to wit, the little triangular thin process, which comes from each side (a) Winshw, Exposition anatomique du corps liumain, trnite ties os sees, §' 233, * Naviculures. -f Lateral. E. {Mesial. E.85 OP THE SKELETON. of the body of the sphenoid hone, where the pterygoid processes are rising from it, and are extended over the lower part of the aperture of the sinus as far as to join the ethmoid bone, while their body hangs down into the nares(a).— Besides these pairs of processes, there is a sharp ridge which stands out from the middle of its base: Because it wants a fellow; it may be called processus azygos. The lower part of this process, where it is received into the vomer, is thick, and often not quite perpendicular, but inclining more to one side than the other. The fore-part of this process, where it joins the nasal plate of the os cthmoides, is thin and straight. These two parts have been de- scribed as two distinct processes by some. The depressions, sinuosities, and fossae, on the ex- Depres- ternal surface of this sphenoid bone, may be reckoned sions. up to a great number, viz. two on the temporal apo- physes where the crotaphite muscles lodge. Two on the orbilar processes, to make way for the globes of the eyes.—Two between the temporal and spinous processes, for receiving the temporal bones.—Two be- tween the plates of the pterygoid processes, where the muscidipterygoidei intend andplery-staphylini interni are placed.—Two between the pterygoid and orbitar process, for forming the holes common to this and to the cheek and maxillary bones. Two on the lower ends of the aliform processes, into which the palate bones enter. Two at the roots of the temporal and pterygoid processes, where the largest share of the ex- ternal pterygoid muscles have their rise. Two at the sides of the processus azygos, for forming part of the nose, &c. What I described under the name of temporal and Internal spinous processes on the outside of the skull, are like- Surface, wise seen on its inside, where they are concave, for receiving part of the brain; and commonly only three apophyses on the internal surface of the sphenoid bone are mentioned. Two rising broad from the fore-part (a) Albiu. Tab. oss. 5. fig. 2. 6. A. A.—Bertin. Mem. de I acad. des sciences, 1744.—Sue, planche viii. fig. 2, 3, 4, 5,6.OF THE SKELETON. 8(3 of its body, become smaller as they arc extended ob- «i liquely backwards. The third standing on a long, transverse base, near the back-part of the body ol this bone, rises nearly erect, and of an equal breadthJ terminating often in a little knob on each side. Then three are called clinoid, from some resemblance whichhl they were thought to have to the supporters of a bedi, Sometimes one or both the anterior clinoid processes^ are joined to the sides of the posterior one, or the bodyj of the bone itself.—From the roots of the anteriow clinoid processes the bone is extended on each sidee outwards and forwards, till it ends in a sharp point;, which may have the name of the transverse spinouu processes. Between, but a little farther back thanu the two anterior clinoid processes, we see a protube— ranee considerably smaller than the posterior clinoi&A process, but of its shape. Another process from be*' tween the transverse processes, often forces itself for- wards into the os elhmoidcs. Within the skull, there are two sinuosities in thee internal part of each wing of the sphenoid bone, for re- ceiving the middle part of the brain. One between, the transverse spinous processes, for lodging the part: of the brain where the crura medulla; oblongata; are*. Immediately before the third or middle clinoid pro- cess, a single pit may generally be remarked, frorai which a fossa goes out on each side to the holes* through which the optic nerves pass. The pit is> formed by the conjoined optic nerves; and in the fos- sa; these nerves are lodged, as they run divided within: the skull. Between that third protuberance and the.1 posterior clinoid process, the larger pit for the glandu— 4 la piluitaria may be remarked. This cavity, becausee y of its resemblance to a Turkish saddle, is always de- scribed under the name of sella Turcica or ephippium., On the sides of the posterior clinoid process a fossa * may be remarked, that stretches upwards, then is con— j, tinued forwards along the sides of the sella Turcica, near to the anterior clinoid processes, where a pit on i 1 each side is made. These fossae point out the course j, of the two internal carotid arteries, after they have en- ■ (. tered the skull.—Besides all these, several other fossae87 OF THE SKELETON, may be observed, leading to tbe several holes, and im- printed by the nerves and blood-vessels. The holes on each side of the os sphenoides are six poraml proper, and three common.—The Jirst is the round one immediately below the anterior clinoid processes, for the passage of the optic nerve, and of the branch of the internal carotid artery that is sent to the eye.—- The second is the foramen lacerum, or large slit be- tween the transverse spinous and orbitar processes: The interior* end of which slit is large ; and, as it is extended outwards t, it becomes narrower. The outer end of it is formed in the os frontis; and, therefore this might be reckoned among the common foramina.— Through it the third, fourth, the first branch of the fifth, and the greater share of the sixth pair of nerves, and an artery from the internal carotid, go into the orbit. Sometimes a small branch of the external caro- tid enters near its end, to be distributed to the dura mater (a), and a vein, some call it the venous duct, or Nuck's aquaeduct, returns through it to the cavernous sinus.—The third hole, situated a little below the one just now described, is called rotundum, from its shape. It allows passage to the second branch of the fifth pair of nerves, or superior maxillary nerve, into the bottom of the orbit. The fourth is the foramen ovale, about half an inch behind the round hole. Through it the third branch of the fifth pair, or inferior maxil- lary nerve, goes out; and sometimes a vein from the dura mater passes out here (&).—Very near the point of the spinous process is the fifth hole of this bone. It is small and round, for a passage to the largest artery of the dura mater, which is often accompanied with a vein.—The sixth proper hole (c) cannot be well seen, • Mesial. E. ^ Laterad. E. («) Winslow, Exposition anatomiqne du corps bumain, traite des arteries, § 60. et de la tete, § 26. (!>) Jngrass. Commentar. in Galen. «ie ossib. lib. 1. com- ment. 8. <c) Vesal. Anat. lib. 1. cap. 12. Eustach. tab. 46. fig. 13. *,16: „ v'«lus Vidius, Anat. lib. 2. cap. 2. cxplicat. tab. 5. & tab. 5. fig. 8, 9, 10. lit. 0.88 OP THE SKELETON. * Lateral. E. till the cuneiform bone is separated from all the other -: I bones of the cranium ; for one end of it is hid by a i small protuberance of the internal plate of the ptery- goid process, and by the point of the processuspetro- ■ sus of the temporal bone. Its canal is extended above the inner plate of the pterygoid process; and where it \ opens into the cavity of the nose, it is concealed by the thin laminous part of the palate bone. Through it a considerable branch of the second branch of the Jifth pair of nerves is reflected. Often in the middle of the sella Turcica a small hole or two pierce as far as the cellular substance of the bone; and sometimes at the sides of this sella, one or more small holes penetrate into the sphenoidal sinuses. These observations af- forded some anatomists (a) an argument of weight in their days in defence of Galen (b), who asserted the descent of the piluita that way into the sinuses below. Thefirst of the common holes is that unequal fissureejF at the side of the sella Turcica, between the extreme point of the os petrosum and the spinous process of the cuneiform bone. This hole appears only after the bones are boiled; for in a recent subject its back-part is covered by a thin bony plate that lies over the in--|' ternal carotid artery, and further forward it is filled with a cartilaginous ligament, under which the carti- laginous part of the Eustachian tube is placed : It was by this passage that the antients believed the slimy matter was conveyed from the emunctory of the brain, the glandula pituilaria, to the fauces. The se- cond common hole is the large discontinuation of the external * side of the orbit, left between the orbitar: processes of the cuneiform bone, the os maxillare, ma-- he, and palati. In this large hole the fat for lubricating the globe of the eye and temporal muscle is lodged, and branches of the superior maxillary nerve, with small arteries from the carotid and veins pass. The (a) Jac. Sylv. Calumniae secundae amolitio. Laurent. Hist, anat. lib. 2. quajst. 11. (6) Galen. De usu part. lib. 9. cap. 1.OF THE SKELETON. 89 Viird hole is formed between the base of this bone and the root of the orbitar process of the palate bone of ach side. Through this a branch of the external ea- otid artery, and of the second branch of the fifth pair f nerves, are allowed a passage to the nostrils, and a eturning vein accompanies them. Sometimes, hovv- ver, this hole is proper to the palate-bone, being len- rely formed out of its substance. Under the sella Turcica, and some way farther for- 'ard, but within the substance of the sphenoid bone, re two sinuses;, separated by a bony plate. Each of lem is lined with a membrane, and Opens into the pper and back part of each nostril by a round hole, •Inch i.s at their upper fore-part. This hole is not >rmed only by the os sphenoides, which has an aper- xre nearly as large as any transverse section of the nus, but also by the palate bones which are applied ) the fore-part of these sinuses, and close them up; lat hole only excepted, which was already mention- i. Frequently the two sinuses are of unequal dimen- ons, and sometimes there is only one large cavity, ith an opening into one nostril. These cavities are kewise said (a) to be extended sometimes as far back 5 the great foramen of the occipital bone. In other ibjects they are not to be found, when the bone is smposed of large cells (b). Some(c) mention a ca-. ity within the partition of the sinuses; but it is small, 'he sphenoidal sinuses serve the same uses as the •ontal do. As this bone is extremely ragged and unequal, so Substance s substance is of very different thickness, being in ome places diaphanous ; in others it is of a middle lickness, and its middle back-part surpasses the reatest share of the cranium in thickness. The os sphenoides is joined, by its wings, to the pa- Connexion ielal bones above, to the o? fronds and ossa malaium efore, to the temporal bones behind ; by the fore- fa) Albin de ossib. § 39. (6) Vesal. lib. 1. cap. 6. (c) Id. ibid.90 OF THE SKELETON. part of its body and spinous processes, to the fronti and ethmoid bones ; by its back-part, beliind the tw sinuses, to the occipital, where it looks like a bone wit the epiphyses taken off, and, as was formerly observe in the description of the occipital bone, it cannot t separated without violence in adults;—to the palm bones, by the ends of the pterygoid processes, and sti more by the fore-part of the internal plates of thep/tc rygoid processes, and of the siimses;—to the maxu lary bones, by the fore-part of the external pterygoi plates ; to the vomer and nasal plate of the os eihmo, des, by the processus azygos. All these conjunctionni except the last, which is a schindylesis, are said to 1. by the suture proper to this bone ; though it is £ J: first sight evident, that several other sutures, as th j:: transverse, ethmoidal, &c. are confounded with it. We see now how this bone is joined to all the bone I of the cranium, and to most of the upper jaw; an.Ii therefore obtained the name of the wedge-like-bone. The uses are so blended with the description, as ttJj: leave nothing new to be added concerning them. State at The sphenoidal bone is almost complete in a fceiwmi birth. of nine months ; only the great ate separate after mailt ceration from the body of the bone.—The processuAi azygos is very large and hollow ;—the thin triangu I lar processes are not ossified;—the internal surfac A J: of the body is unequal and porous ;—the sinuses d not appear. Whoever is acquainted with each bone of the era. nium, can, without difficulty, examine them as the* stand united, so as to know the shapes, sizes, distances &c. of their several parts, and the forms, capacities &c. of the cavities formed by them, which is of grean use towards understanding the anatomy of the part contiguous to, contained within, or connected to thenm Such a review is necessary, after considering eacl class of bones. Thus the orbits, nostrils, mouth, face head, spine, thorax, pelvis, trunk, extremities, ant skeleton, ought likewise to be examined. Face. The Face is the irregular pile of bones, composing the fore and under part of the head, which is divided by authors, into the upper and lower maxilla or jaws91 OF TH.E SKELETON. The superior maxilla* is the common designation Upper jaw; given to the upper immoveable share of the face ; thoughj if we would follow Celsus(a), we should ap- ply the word maxilla to the lower jaw only, and the name mala to this upper jaw. In complaisance to prevailing custom, I shall, however, use the terms as now commonly employed. The shape of the superior jaw cannot easity be expressed; nor is it necessary, provided the shape and situation of all the bones which compose it are described. It is bounded above by the transverse suture, behind by the fore-part of the sphenoid bone, and below by the mouth. The upper jaw consists of six bones on each side, of Component a thirteenth bone which has no fellow, placed in the bones' middle, and of sixteen teeth. The thirteen bones are, two.ossa nasi, two ossa unguis, two ossa malarum, two ossa maxillaria, two ossa palali, two ossa spongiosa inferiora, and the vomer. The ossa nasi are placed at the upper part of the Relative nose ; the ossa unguis are at the internal t canthi of P°sitioD. the orbits; ossa malarum form the prominence of the cheeks ; ossa maxillaria form the side of the nose, with the whole lower and fore-part of the upper jaw, and the greatest share of the roof of the mouth; ossa palali are situated at the back-part of the palate, nostrils, and orbit; ossa spo?igiosa are seen in the lower part of the nares; and the vomer helps to se- parate these two cavities. The bpnes of the upper jaw are joined to the bones Connexion, Df the skull by the schindylesis and sutures already described as common to the cranium and face, and they are connected to each other by gomphosis and lfteen sutures. The gomphosis is only where the teeth are fixed in their sockets, and the schindylesis is only where the edges of the vomer are joined to other bones. • liayuii, y'i\>t>{, hiand bula. (a) Lib. 8. cap, 1. f Mesial. E.92 OF THE SKELETON. Sutures. The sutures are generally distinguished by mrni-.U bers, which have been differently applied ; and there-.I fore I join those («) who prefer the giving names tool each, which may be easily contrived from their si«.| tuation, or from the bones which they connect. The first is the anterior nasal*, which is straight,,! and placed longitudinally in the middle fore-part of.f ' the nose. The second and third are the lateral nasal\, which iB are at each side of the nose, and almost parallel to thee first suture. Each of the two lacrymal is almost semicircular,, and is placed round the lacrymal groove. The sixth and seventh are the internal orbitar;; each of which is extended obliquely from the middle, of the lower side of an orbit to the edge of its base. The two external orbitars are contained, each fromu the end of the internal orbitar, to the under and fore- part of the cheek. The tenth is the mystachial, which reaches onlyy from the lower part of the septum narium to betwejn the two middle denies incisores. The longitudinal palatc% suture stretches from the.] ! middie of the foremost teeth through the middle oiti( all the palate. The transverse palate one || runs across the palate; J nearer the back than the fore-part of it. Each of the two palato-maxillary is at the back-.- part of the side of each nostril. The fifteenth is the spinous, which is in the middlee of the lower part of the nostrils. This may perhaps* u be rather thought a double schindylesis. The connection of the ossa spongiosa to the sideoM \ each nostril, is so much by a membrane in young sub— s, * • I U (a) Vancler Liruleri. Medicin. physiolosr. cnp. 13. art. 2. § 10. —Rolfinc. Auat. lib. 2. cap. 23.—Sejieuk. S.chel. pait. § tilt.!. * j>ar 2. cap. 5. • Nasalis recta. f Nasalis obliqua. \ Laqucaris, palataria recta. || Arcuata, palatina postica.. SI tiOF THE SKELETON. 93 Meets, by a sort of hook and afterwards by concretion or union of substance in adults, that I did not know well how to rank it: But if any chuses to call it a suture, the addition of two transverse nasal sutures may be made to those above named. These sutures of the face (formerly called harmo- nioe) have not such conspicuous indentations as those of the skull have ; the bones here not having sub- stance enough for forming large indentations, and there being less necessity for security against exter- nal injuries, or any internal protruding force, than in the cranium.—These sutures often disappear in old people, by the bones running into each other; which can do little prejudice, because the principal use of the bones being so numerous here, is to allow them to be extended into a proper form. It is evident, from the manner of the conjunction of these bones, that they can have no motion, except in common with the cranium. The purposes which this pile of bones serves, will be shewn in the description which I am to give of each of them. Ossa Nasi, so named from their situation at the Nasal root of the nose, are each of an irregular oblong square Bones, figure, being broadest at their lower end, narrowest a little higher than their middle, and becoming some- what larger at the top, where they are ragged and thickest, and have a curvature forwards, that their connexion with the frontal bone might be stronger. —These bones are convex externally, and thereby better resist any violence from without; and they are concave internally, for enlarging the cavity of the nose. The lower edge of these bones is unequal, and is stretched outwards and backwards, to join the car- tilages of the nostrils.—Their anterior side is thick, especially above, and unequal, that their conjunction to each other might be stronger; and a small rising may be remarked on their inner edge, where they are sustained by the septum narium.—Their posterior side, at its upper half, has externally a depression,OF THE SKELETON. 94 • Lateral. E. is overlapped some way by the maxillary bones, while its lower half covers these bones: By which contriv- ance, they do not yield easily to pressure applied to their fore-part or sides. A small hole is frequently to be observed on their external surface, into which two, three, or four holes, which appear internally, terminate for the transmis- sion of small veins ; sometimes the holes go no fur- ther than the cancelli of the bones. The nasal bones are firm and solid, with very few cells or cancelli in them ; the thin substance of which they consist not requiring much marrow. They are joined above to the frontal bone, by the middle of the transverse suturebehind, to the maxillary bones, by the lateral nasal sutures ;—-be- low, to the cartilages of the nose;—before, to each other, by the anterior nasal suture ;—internally, to the septum narium. These bones serve to cover and defend the root of the nose. In an infant the nasal bones are proportionally shorter, and less thick at their upper-part, than in au adult, but are otherwise complete. Ossa Ua- Ossa Unguis, or Lacrimalia, are so named, be-, s'lU' cause their figure and magnitude are something near to those of a nail of one's finger, and because the tears pass upon them into the nose. Their external* surface is composed of two smooth concavities and a middle ridge.—The depression be- hind forms a small share of the orbit for the eye-ball to move on, and the one before is a deep perpendicular canal, or fossa, larger above than below, containing part of the lacrymal sac and duct. This is the part that ought to be pierced in the great operation for the fistula lacrymalis. This fossa of the bone is cribri- form, or has a great number of small holes through it, that the filaments from the membrane which lines it, insinuating themselves into these holes, might prevent a separation of the membrane, and secure the bone inOP THE SKELETON. 95 s natural situation.—The ridge between these two avities of the os unguis, is the proper boundary of the rbit at its internal canlhus; and beyond which sur- eons should not proceed backwards in performing Derations here.—The internal * or posterior surface 'this bone consists of a furrow in the middle of two mvexities. I The substance of the os unguis is as thin as paper, id very brittle; which is the reason that these bones e often wanting in skeletons, and need little force I pierce them in living subjects. Each of these bones is joined, above, to thefronial me, by part of the transverse suture;—behind, to e os planum oi the ethmoidbone, by the same suture; ^before, and below, to the maxillary bone, by the crymal suture.—Internally, the ossa unguis cover me of the sinus ethmoidals; nay, are really contin- s with the bony lamella which make up the sides these cells; so that they are as much part of the hmoid bone as the ossa plana. These unguiform bones compose the anterior inter- 1 parts of the orbits, lodge a share of the lacrymal c and duct, and cover the ethmoid cells.—Their uation and tendersubstance make a rash operator in nger of destroying a considerable share of the organ smelling, when he is performing the operation of the 'ulalacrymalis; but when these bones are hurt, they it off without much difficulty, and consequently the und is soon cured, unless the patient labours under ;eneral cacoetha, or there be a predisposition in the les to caries ; in which case, a large train of bad riptoms follows, or, at best, the cure proves tedious. 1 nese bones are fully formed in a new born child. Ussa Malarumt was the name given by Celsus, Cheek was already remarked, to,all the upper jaw ; but is Bonei- v appropriated to the prominent square bones which m the cheek on each side.—Before, their surface is Mesial. E. Jugaliavel zygomatic^ hypoxia, subocu'aria.96 OF THE SKELETON. convex and smooth: backward, it is unequal and con« cave, for lodging part of the cralophilc muscles. The four angles of each of these bones have been reckoned processes by some.—The one at the external canlhus of the orbit, called the superior orbitar process, is the longest and thickest.—The second terminates near the middle of the lower edge of the orbit in a k sharp point, and is named the inferior orbitar process. L —The third, placed near the lower part of the cheek,. and thence called maxillary, is the shortest, and near- . est to a right angle.—The fourth, which is called I zygomatic, because it is extended backwards to the! zygoma of the temporal bone, ends in a point, and has i one side straight, and the other sloping.—Between i the two orbitar angles there is a concave arch; which i makes about a third of the external circumference of the orbit, from which a fifth process is extended back- ■ wards within the orbit, to form nearly one third of: that cavity; and hence it may be called the internal'. orbitar process.—From the lower edge of each of the? ossa malarum, which is between the maxillary and I zygomatic processes, the masseter muscle takes its s origin ; and from the exterior part of the zygomatic: process, the musculus distortor oris" rises; in bothi which places the surface of the bone is rough. On the external surface of each cheek-bone, one orr more small holes are commonly found, for the trans- mission of small nerves or blood-vessels from, and! sometimes into the orbit.—On the internal surface are. the holes for the passage of the nutritious vessels of i these bones. A notch on the outside of the internal orbitar process of each of these bones assists in forming the great slit common to this bone and to the sphenoid, maxillary, and palate bones. The substance of these bones is, in proportion tf» their bulk, thick, hard, and solid, with some canccllu Each of the ossa malarum is joined, by its superior.' and internal orbitar processes, to the osfrontis, and to the orbitar process of the sphenoid bone, by the trans- • * Zygomaticus major. Alb. E.OF THE SKELETON. 97 verse suture.—By the edge between the internal and inferior orbitar processes, to the maxillary bone, by the internal orbitar suture.—By the side between the maxillary and inferior orbitar processes, again to the imaxillary bone, by the external orbitar suture.—By ;the zygomatic process, to the os lemporum, by the zygomatic suture. The cheek bones are entire, and fully ossified in all their parts in infants. Ossa Maxillaria Superiora*, are the largest c,„™,- , , , „ ' . , o superior bones, and constitute the far greater part of tr.e up- Maxillary jper jaw, which has appropriated the name of maxiU Bunes, iaria to them. The figure of one of them, or of the [two when joined, is so hregular, that words can scarcely give an idea of it. The processes of each os maxillare may be reckoned procesSQ« seven—Thejirst is the long nasal one at its upper and fore-part, which is broad below, and turns smaller, as it rises upwards, to make the side of the nose.—At the root of this, a transverse ridge may be observed within the nostrils, which supports the fore-part of the upper edge of the 6s spongiosum inferius.—The secondis pro- duced backwards and outwards, from the root of the inasal process, to form the lower side of the orbitj and therefore may be called orbitar.—The edge of this orbitar process, and the ridge of the nasal one, which is continued from it, make a considerable portion of the external circumference of the orbit.—From the proper orbitar process, a very rough triangular sur- face is extended downwards and outwards, to be con- nected to the cheek-bone; and therefore may be call- ed the malar process, from the lowest protuberant part / of which some share of the masscter muscle takes its rise.—Behind the orbitar process, a large tuberosity or bulge of the bone appears, which is esteemed the fourth process.—On the internal part of this we often meet with a ridge, almost of the same height with that in the nasal process, which runs transversely, and is covered by a similar ridge of the palate bone, on " Maxil'ae coronales, Bard. Muscular Motions., p. 174. F98 OF THE SKELETON. which the back-part of the upper edge of the OS spoil* giosum inferius rests.—The convex back-part of this tuberosity is rough for the origin of part of the ex- ternal pterygoid muscle («), and more internally is scabrous, where the palate and sphenoid bones are joined to it.—That spongy protuberance* at the 'lower circumference of this bone, where the sockets for the teeth are formed, is reckoned the fifth.—The sixth is the horizontal plate, which forms the greater part of the base of the nostrils, and roof of the mouth ; its upper surface, which belongs to the nostrils, is very smooth, but the other below is arched and rough, for the stronger adhesion of the membrane of the mouth, which is stretched upon it, and in chewing, speaking, &c. might otherwise be liable to be separated.—The seventh rises like a spine from the inner edge of the last, and forms a small part of the partition of the nostrils. Depres- The depressions in each maxillary bone are, 1. A sions. sinuosity behind the orbitar process, made by the • temporal muscle. 2. A pit immediately before the- same process, where the origin of the muscnlus eleva-. tor labiorum communis f, and elevator labii superioris,. with a branch of the fifth pair of nerves, are lodged i securely. 3. The hollow arch of the palate. 4. The : semicircular great notch, or entry to the lower partt of the nostrils, betwixt the root of the nasal process? and spine of the palate-plate.—Below this, the fore- part of the bone is flatted, or sometimes hollowed by. the musculus depressor labii superioris X- 5- Sockets* for the teeth ||: The number of these sockets is un- certain ; for the same number of teeth is not in all people, and the four backmost teeth of each side oj: each iaw vary greatly in their number of roots ; and . when the teeth of a living person fall out, or are taken (a) Albin. de ossib. § 79* • fern*- . „ •J- Levator angah oris. Alb. I fa&S —«"•. *~> «~* cavae, praesepiola, loculamenta.OF THE SKELETON. F 2 away, the sockets fill up with an osseous net-work, which becomes solid afterwards. 6. The lacrymal fossa in the nasal process, which assists the os unguis to form a passage for the lacrtjmal duct. This part of the bone forming this fossa is so firm and stiong, that a surgeon can scarcely perforate it with the ordinary instruments for the fistula lacrymalis, and therefore ought to avoid it in doing this operation.—Immediate- ly on the outside of this, there is a small depression, from which the inferior ox lesser oblique muscle of the eye has its origin (q). 7. The canal on the upper part of the great tuberosity within the orbit, which is al- most a complete hole: in this a branch of the superior maxillary nerve passes—Besides these, the superior surface of the great bulge is concave, to receive the under part of the eye.—Immediately above the trans- verse ridge in the nasal process, a small hollow is formed by the os spongiosum.—In some subjects, the nasal process has a small round pit above the lacrymal duct, where the little tendon or ligament of the orbi- eular muscle of the eye-lids is inserted. It is this tendon, and not the tendon of the larger oblique mus- cle of the eye, which there is some hazard of cut- ting in the operation of the Jistula lacrymalis. The holes of this bone are two proper and two com- p mon, which are always to be . found, besides several " others, whose magnitude, numbers, &c. are uncer- tain.—The first of the proper is the external orbitar, immediately below the orbit, by which the infra-or- bitar branch of the second branch of the fifth pair of nerves, and a small artery, come out, after havino- passed in the canal, at the bottom of the orbit de- scribed numb. 7. of the depressions.—This hole is often double, and that when the nerve has happened to split before it has escaped from the bone.—The second is the foramen inciswum, just behind the fore-teeth S'8tI'ts UndZ Part>is one ^regular hole common to both the maxillary bones when they are joined • but, as it ascends, soon divides into two, three, or ia) Winslow, Exposition Anatomique des os sees, $ 276OF THE SKELETON. 100 Antrum Higlimo- rianurn. sometimes more holes ; some of which open into each nostril. Through them small arteries and veins, and a twig of the second branch of the fifth pair of nerves pass, and make a communication between, or join the lining coats of the nose and mouth.—In some sub- jects, Sleno'st&nct may be traced some way .on the side of these passages next to the nose, and small orifices may be observed opening into the mouth. The first common hole is that which appears at the inner side of the back part of the tuberosity and of the sockets of the teeth, and is formed by a fossa in this bone, and a corresponding one in the os paluii; through it a nerve, which is a branch of the second branch of the fifth pair, runs to the palate.—1 he other common hole is the great slit in the outside of the orbit described already, as.the second common hole of the sphenoid bone. On the nasal process holes may be often observed for the passage of vessels to the substance of the bones ; and, at the back-part of each tuberosity, se- veral foramina are placed, for the transmission of nerves to the cavity within ; but these are uncertain. <\11 the body of the maxillary bone is hollow, and leaves a large sinus a-kin to the frontal and sphenoid, which is commonly, but unjustly, called antrum High- ■ morianum*. When the os maxillare is single or scpa- • rated from all the other bones of a skeleton, its antrum I appears to have a large aperture into the nostrils ;; but, in a recent subject, it is so covered at its back-- uart, by the palate bone; in the middle, by the os- Lon&iosum ivferius ; before, by a strong membrane; that only one or sometimes two holes, scarcely larger than a crow-quill, are left at the upper part; which after a short winding progress, open into the nostrils- between the two ossa spongiosa.—At the bottom of. this cavity, we may often observe some protuberances, in wnich tne small points of the roots of the teeth are contained (fl)—This cavern and the sockets of thee Gonae, tti) Highmore, Disquis. Anat. lib. 3. part 2. cap. 1.101 OF THE SKELETON. F o teeth ate often divided by the interposition only of a very thin bony plate, which is liable to be eroded by acrid matter collected in the antrum, or to be broken in drawing a tooth (a). The symptoms of a collec- tion of matter here naturally lead us to the practice of pulling out the teeth, and piercing through this plate into the antrum, to procure an evacuation of the collected matter; by which considerable service is frequently done (6). , The maxillary sinuses have the same uses as the frontal and sphenoidal ; and the situation of the si- nuses is such, that the liquor trickling from them, from the cells of the ethmoid and palate bones, and from the lacrymal ducts, may always moisten all the parts of the membrane of the nares in the different situa- tions in which the head is placed. Though the membranes which line the frontal, JJ«™bran* sphenoidal, and maxillary sinuses, are continuations sjnuses. of the one which covers the bones within the nose ; yet they are much thinner than it is, and have so much smaller vessels, that the injection which makes the membrane of the nose red all over, fills only some few vessels of the maxillary sinuses, and is scarcely observed in the f rontal and sphenoidal. Are not the*,, larger vessels intended for a more plentiful secretion of a viscid liquor lo defend the membrane from the effects of the perjlatus, which is constantly through the nose ? Are not the membranes which have the smallest vessels, ceteris paribus, the most sensible ? Are not many phenomena of smelling, inflammations of* these parts, megrim, polypi, &c. depending on this structure of these membranes ? The substance of the ossa maxillaria is compact Substance, and firm, except at the inferior processes, in which the teeth are lodged, where, it is very spongy. The maxillary bones are joined above by the upper Connexion, ends of their nasal processes to the os frontis, by the (a) Highmore, ibid. (b) Cooper in Drake s anthropol. book 3. cl.ap. 10. Medical Essays and obs. vol. 5. art. 30.OF THE SKELETON. .102 transverse suture;—at the sides of these processes to the ossa unguis, by the lacrymal sutures ;—to the na- sal bones, by the lateral nasal sutures ;—by their or- bitar processes, to the cheek bones, by the external or- bitar sutures ;—by the internal sides of the internal orbitar processes, to the ossa plana, by part of the ethmoidal suture ;—by the back part of the tuberosi- I ties to the palate bones, by the sulurae palato max- I illares ,-~by the posterior edges of their palatine lamellae, to the ossa palati, by the transverse palate suture; —by their nasal spines, to the vomer, by the spinous suture;—by their sockets, to the teeth by gomphosis ;—by the internal edge of the palate-plate, to each other, by the longtitudinal palate-suture; on the upper and fore-part of which a furrow is left for receiving the cartilage whieri forms the partition of the nostrils ; between the fore-part of the nostrils and mouth, to each other, by the mystachial suture; sometimes they are connected to the ossa spongiosa inferiora, by a plain concretion or union of substance. "Uses. These bones form the greater part of the nose and of the roof of the mouth, and a considerable share of; the orbit. They contain sixteen teeth, give rise to muscles, transmission to nerves, &c. as mentioned mi the description of their several parts. State at In each of the maxillary bones of a new-born child, Birth. the external orbitar process is hollow with remarkable: holes in it;—there are five sockets for the teeth, of: which the two posterior are very large, and when di-' vided by a second cross partition, make the number of sockets six (a). The palate-plate is cribriform about the middle. The great tuberosity is not form- ed;—instead of the antrum, there is only an oblong, depression at the side of the nostrils.. Palate ObS\ PALATI are commonly described as two small': Bones! square bones, at the back-part of the palate or roof oft' the mouth, though they are of much greater extent, being continued up the back-part of the nostrils too («) Albin. Osteogen, tab. 5. fig. 45. Ungebav. de dent it. secund.jnn. § !.OF THE SKELETON. 103 the orbit (a). Each palate bone may therefore be di- vided into four parts, the palate square bone, the pte- rygoid process, nasal lamella, and orbitar process. The square bone is unequally concave, for enlarg- Their ing both the mouth and cavity of the nose. The up- square per part of its internal* edge rises in a spine, after the Bone- same manner as the palate-plate of the maxillary bone does, to be joined with the vomer. Its anterior edge is unequally ragged, for its firmer connection with tha palate process of the os maxillare. The internal edge is thicker than the rest, and of an equal surface, for its conjunction with its fellow of the other side. Behind this bone is somewhat in form of a crescent, and thick, for the firm connection of the velum pendulum paluti; the internal point being produced backwards, to af- ford origin to the palato-staphylimis or azygos muscle. This square bone is well distinguished from the ptery- goid process by a perpendicular fossa, which, applied to such another in the maxillary bone, forms a passage for the palatine branch of the fifth pair of nerves ; and by another small hole behind this, through which a twig of the same nerve passes. The pterygoid process is somewhat triangular, hiv- Pterygoid ing a broad base, and ending smaller above. The Process, back-part of this process has three fossa; formed in it; the two lateral receive the ends of the two plates of the sphenoid bone, that are commonly compared to a bat's wing ; the middle fossa makes up a part of what is commonly called the fossa pterygoidea ; the fore- side of this palatine pterygoid process is an irregular concave, where it receives the back-part of the great tuberosity of the maxillary bone. Frequently several small holes may be observed in this triangular pro- cess, particularly one near the middle of its base, which a little above communicates with the common and proper holes of this bone already taken notice of, (a) Eustaeb. tab. 47. fig; l. 3. 6, 7, 8. Vidus Vidius, de Anat. lib. 2. cap. 2. explicat. tab. 6. figv 19. Winslow Me. moires de I'aead. des sciences, 1720. " xMesial edge. E.OF THE SKELETON. 104 The nasal lamella of this bone is extremely thin find brittle, and rises upwards from the upper side of the external edge of the square bone, and from the narrow extremity of the pterygoid process ; where it is so weak, and, at the same time, so firmly fixed to the maxillary bone, as to be very liable to be broken in separating the bones.—From the part where the plate rises, it runs up broad on the inside of the tube- ■ rosily of the maxillary bone, to form a considerable share of the sides of the maxillary sinus, and to close up the space between the sphenoid and the great: bulge of the maxillary bone, where there would other— wise be a large slit opening into the nostrils (a). From the middle internal side of this thin plate, a cross ridge placed on such another of the maxillary bone is ex— tended ; on it, the back-part of the os spongiosum in-- ferius rests. Along the outside of this plate, the per- ■ pendicular fossa made by the palate nerve is observ— able. At the upper part of this nasal plate, the pala;e bone divides into two processes, which I already named orbitar ; between which and the body of the: sphenoid bone, that hole is formed, which I mentioned: as the last of the holes common to the sphenoid bone.. Sometimes this hole is wholly formed in the os palati, by a cross plate going from the one orbitar process- to the other. A nerve, artery, and vein belonging toi the nostrils pass here. The anterior of the two orbi- tar processes is the larger, and has its fore-part conti- guous to the back part of the maxillary sinus, and its- upper surface appears in the bottom * of the orbit, be- hind the back-part of the os maxillare and planum.-*— It has cells behind resembling those of the ethmoid bone, to which it is contiguous; it is placed on the aperture of the sinus sphenoidalis, so as to leave only a round hole at its upper fore-part. The other part of: the orbitar process is extended along the internal side ©f the upper back-part of the maxillary tuberosity, to («) Albin. tie ossib. § 88. " Inial anil Basilar part. E.105 OF THE SKELETON. the base of the sphenoid bone, between the root of the processus azygos and the pterygoid process. The palate square part of this palate bone, and its Substance, pterygoid process, are firm and strong, with some can* celli; but the nasal plate and orbitar processes are very thin and brittle. The pajate bones are joined to the maxillary, by the Connexion, fore-edge of the palate square bone, by the transverse- palate suture : By their thin nasal plates, and part of their orbitar processes, to the same bones, by the pa- lato-maxillares sutures : By their pterygoid processes, and back-part of the nasal^plales, to the afae vesperti- lionum, by the sphenoid suture : By the transverse ridges of the nasal plates, to the ossa spongiosa infe- riora, by contact; hence frequently there is an inti- mate union of the substance of these bones in old skulls :—By the orbitar processes, to the ossa plana and celhdae ethmoideae, by the ethmoid suture : To the body of the sphenoid bone, by the sphenoid su- ture : By the internal edge of the square bones, to each other, by the longitudinal palate suture; and by their nasal spines, to the vomer by the spinous suture. The palate-bones form part of the palate, nostrils, Use?, orbits, and fossae pterygoideae, and they cover part of the sinus maxillares, sphenoidales, and ethmoidei. These bones are very complete in a new-born in- State at fant, the nasal plates being then thicker and stronger 5irtb- than in adults; but the orbitar processes have not the cells which appear in the bones of adults. When we are acquainted with the history of these bones, the reason is evident, why the eyes are so much affected in ulcers of the palate, as to be often attend- ed with blindness, which frequently happens in an ill- managed lues venerea ; or why, on the other hand, the palate suffers from an aegylops (a). Ossa Turbinata, or spongiosa inferiora, resemble Inferior the superior ossa spongiosa in shape and substance, spongy . but have their anterior and upper edges contiguous to Bones> (a) Hoffman, in Ephemerid. German, cent. 1. and 2. observ. 135.OF THE SKELETON. 106* the transverse ridges of the maxillary and palate bones. From their upper straight edge, two small processes stand out: the posterior, which is the broadest, de- scends to cover some of the antrum Highmorianum ; the anterior rises up to join the os unguis, and to make part of the lacrymal duct. Below the spongy bones already mentioned, there are sometimes two others, one in each nostril, which seem to be a production of the sides of the maxillary sinus turned downwards (a). When this third sort of spongy bone is found, the middle one of the three in each nostril is the largest, and the lowest is the small- est.—Besides all these, there are often several other small bones standing out into the nostrils, that, from their shape, might also deserve the name of turbinata, but are uncertain in their bulk, situation, and num- ber (6). The names of these bones sufficiently declare their spongy substance, which has no firm external plate i covering it. They are joined to the ossa maxillaria, palati, and tinguis in old subjects, by a firm union of substance ;; ancl as this happens also frequently in'people of no great age, some (c) are of opinion, that they should! be esteemed part of the palate-bones; others (d) think,, that since their upper-edge is continued by a plate: to a part of the os ethmoides, they ought to be esteem-- ed to be a part of this bone. Their use is, to straiten the nostrils, to afford a large surface for extending the organ of smelling, to cover, part of the antra maxillaria, and to assist in forming; the under part of the lacrymal ducts, the orifices of:' which into the nose are concealed by these bones. The ossa turbinata are nearly complete in a new born infant. . Vomer, or bone resembling a plough-share, is ther thirteenth of the upper jaw, without a fellow, forming: (a) Cowpcr in Drake's Anthropolog. book. 31 chap. 10. (6) eantorin. Obsei vat. anatomic, cap. 5. § 9. (c) Id. ibid. cap. 5. § 7. (tf) Hunauld. in Meinoires de l'acad. des sciences, 17^0.OF THE SKELETON. 107 the lower and back parts of the partition of the nose (a). The figure of this bone is an irregular rhomboid.— Its sides are flat and smooth. Its posterior edge ap- pears in an oblique direction at the backjiart of the nostrils. The upper one is firmly united to the base of the sphenoid bone, and to the nasal plate of the ethmoid; and, when it can be got separated, is hol- low, for receiving the processus azygos of the sphenoid. The anterior edge has a long furrow in it, where the middle cartilage of the nose enters. The lower edge is firmly united to the nasal spines of the maxillary and palate bones. These edges of this bone are much thicker than its middle, which is as thin as the finest paper; by which, and the firm union or connexion this bone has above and below, it can very seldom be separated entire in adults ; but, in a child, it is much more easily separated entire, and its structure is more distinctly seen ; wherefore I shall examine all its parts of such a subject. Its situation is not always perpendicu'ar, but often inclined and bended to one side, as well as the nasal plate of the ethmoid bone. The vomer is convex at its upper part, and then is straight, as it is extended downwards and forwards where it is composed of two plates; the edges of which have a great number of small processes, dis- posed somewhat like the teeth-of a saw, but more ir- regularly, and several of them are reflected back. Between these plates a deepfossa is left, which, as far as the top of the curvature, is wide, and has strong sides for receiving the processus azygos of the sphenoid bone. Beyond the arch forwards, the fossa is nar- rower and shallower gradually to the point of the bone, receiving for some way the nasal lamella ethmoi- dea ; which, after the ossification is complete, is so closely united to the vomer by the little processes piercing into its substance, as to prevent any separa-. (a) Columb. de re anat. hb. 1. cap. 3.—Failop. Observat, anatom.OF THE SKELETON. 108 tion ; on which account it has been esteemed by some (a) a part of the ethmoid bone. The middle cartilage of the nose fills up what remains of the fossa at its fore-part. The posterior edge of the vomer, which appears above the back part of the palate bones, is broader above; but as it descends forwards, becomes thinner, though it is still solid and firm. The lower edge of this bone, which rests on the nasal spine of the palate and maxillary bones, has a little furrow on each side of a small middle ridge, answering to the spines of the bones of different sides, and the interstice between them. This edge and the upper one meet in the pointed fore-end of this bone. The body of the vomer has a smooth surface, and solid, but thin substance; and towards its sides, where it is thickest, some cancelli may be observed, when the bone is broken. It is joined above to the sphenoid and ethmoid bones, and to the middle cartilage of the nose, by schyndy- lesis;—below, to the maxillary and palate bones, by the spinous suture. The vomer divides the nostrils, enlarges the organ, of smelling by allowing place for expanding the mem- brane of the nose on its sides, and sustains the palate- plates of the maxillary and palate bones, which other- wise might be in hazard of being pressed into the nostrils ; while the vomer is secured from shuffling to one side or other by the double schyndelesis, by which it is joined to the bones above and below. These then are all the bones which compose the upper jaw, except the teeth, which are so much a-kin to those of the lower jaw, that I chuse to make one description serve for both, in which the differences ob- servable in them shall be remarked, after the second part of the face, the lower jaw, is examined ; because the structure of the teeth cannot be well understood, until the case in which they are set is explained, inferior Maxilla Inferior*, the lower jaw consists only of Maxilla. one moveable bone, and sixteen teeth incased into it. (a) Lieutaud. Essais anatomiques 1 sect. Pos ethmoide. bula, facies. Maxilla basilaris. Bare*. Muse. Mot. p. 167. E.OF THE SKELETON. 109 This bone, which is somewhat of the figure of the Greek letter v, is situated at the lower part of the face, so that its convex middle part is forwards, and its legs are stretched back. It is commonly divided into the chin, sides, and processes.—The chin is the middle fore-part, the extent of which to each side is marked on the external surface by the holes observable there, and internally by the beginning of an oblique ridge. -—Beyond these the sides appear, and are continued till the bone, by bending upwards, begins to form the pro- cesses. On the fore part of the chin, a transverse ridge ap- pears in the middle, on each side of which the musculi quadrati, or depressores labii inferioris, and the leva- tores labii inferioris*, depress the bone: And below these prints, a small rising may be observed, where the depressores commence.—On the back-part of the chin, sometimes three, always two, small protuberances appear in the middle.—To the uppermost, when it is seen, thefraenumof the tongue is connected. From the middle one, the musculige?iioglossi rise; and from the lowest, the geniohyoidei have their origin. Below the ]ast, we see two rough sinuosities formed by the digas- tric muscles. At the lower and fore-part of the external surface Sides, of each side of the lower jaw, a small eminence may be observed, where the depressor labiorum communis f vises. Near the upper edge of the side a ridge runs length-ways, to which the under part of the musculus buccinator is connected.—Internally, towards the upper edge of each side, another ridge appears, from which the mylohyoidei have their origin, and to which the in- ternal membrane of the gums adheres. In the upper edge of both chin ancLsides are a great Aheo\\. many deep pits or sockets, for receiving the roots of the teeth. The number and magnitude of these sock- ets are various, because of the different number, as well of the teeth themselves, as of their roots, in differ- " Levatores menti. Alb. E. -t Depressor anguli oris. Alb. E.OF THE SKELETON, 110 cnt people. These sockets in this lower jaw, as well as in the upper one, are less deep as old age comes on; when freed from the teeth by any means, they are some time after filled up with an osseous net-work, which at last becomes entirely solid, and as smooth as any other part of the bone; so that in a great many old jaws one cannot observe a vestige of the sockets: $trt then the jaw becomes less, and much narrower (a). —Hence we may know why the chin and nose of edentulous people are much nearer than before the teeth were lost; while their lips either fall in towards the mouth, or stand prominent forwards.—When new. teeth are protruded, new sockets are formed (6).— ' - The lower edge of the chin and sides is smooth and equal, and is commonly called the base of the lower jaw.—The ends of the base, where the jaw turns up-, wards, are called its angles ; the external surface of each of which has several inequalities upon it, where; the masseter muscle is inserted; as the internal surface also has, where the pterygoideus internus is inserted, and a ligament extended from the styloid process of the temporal bone is. fixed. Processes. The processes are two on each side.—The anterior; sharp thin coronoid ones have the crolaphite muscles; inserted into them.— The posterior processes or con- dyles* terminate in an oblong smooth head, supported, by a cervix. The heads whose greatest length is: transverse, and whose convexity is turned forwards, arei tipped with a cartilage, as the articulated parts of all other moved bones are.—The fore part of the root and neck of these condyloid processes are a little hollow and rough, where the external pterygoid muscles arei inserted. Foramina. The holes of the lower jaw are two on each side ; one at the root of the processes internally, where a large branch of the third branch of the fifth part of nerves enters with an artery, and a vein returns. A* («) Vcsa!. Anat. lib. 1 cap. 10. (b) Fallop. Observ. auat. • Articulatorii»OP THE SKELETON. HI Bmall sharp process frequently jutts out backwards from the edge at the fore-part of this hole, to which a ligament extended from the temporal bone is fixed (a), which saves the nerve and vessels from being too much pressed by the pterygoid muscles.—From the lower side of this hole, either a small superficial canal or a furrow descends, where a branch of the nerve is lodged, in its way to the mylo-hyoidetis muscle and sublingual gland (b).—The other hole is external, at the confines of the chin, where branches of the nerve and vessels comeout.—The canal betwixtthese two holes is formed in the middle of the substance of the bone, and is pierced by a great number of small holes, by which the nerves and blood vessels of the cancelli and teeth pass. This canal is continued a little further than the external hole at the chin.—On account of the vessels and nerves in the lower jaw, fractures of it may be at- tended with dangerous symptoms. The surface of the lower jaw is hard and firm, ex- Substance cept at the spongy sockets, where however it is stronger than the upper jaw.— Its internal substance is cellular without any solid partition between the cancelli in its middle.—At the base, especially of the chin, where this bone is most exposed to injuries, the solid sides of it are thick, compact, and hard. The lower jaw generally receives the roots of six- Connexion, teen teeth into its sockets, by gomphosis ; and its con- dyloid processes, covered with cartilage, are articulated with the temporal bones, in a manner that is not com- monly described aright: For, as was already mentioned in the description of the temporal bones, not only the fore part of the cavity between the zygomatic, auditory, and vaginal processes, but also the adjoining tubercle at the root of the zygomatic process of each os tempo- rum is covered with a smooth cartilage, for this articu- lation.—Here also an intermediate moveable cartilage is placed, which being thin in the middle, and thick at the edges, is concave on both sides; and is connected (a) Weitbrecht. Syndesmolo?. fig. 32. 1, (6) Palfyn. Ahat. chirur. traite 5. chap. 6.112 OP THE SKELETON. so firmly by ligaments to each condyle, as to follow, the motions of the condyle; and so loosely to the tern- poral bone, as readily to change its situation from the cavity to the tubercle, and to return again; while the. common ligament of the articulation affords space* enough for such a change of place backwards and for-, wards; but, like other ligaments of the joints by gihi. glimus, is strong and short at the sides, to confine thee lateral motions. Motions of When therefore the teeth of both jaws coincide, the; Jaw. °W6r confyles are lodged securely in the temporal cavities,, but their motions to either side must be confined both by the firmness of the ligaments, and the rising brims1 which are on each side of the cavities.—When the jaw. is brought directly forwards, the condyles and interme- ■ diate cartilages descend and advance forwards upon the I tubercles.—In this situation the lateral motions are a. little more free than in the former one, from the want: of rising brims to stop the condyles.—When the fore-, teeth of the lower jaw are moved forwards, and to a side, the condyle of the opposite side is either advanced from the cavity to the tubercle, while the condyle of: the same side remains in the cavity ; or if both con- • dyles are on the tubercles, when the jaw is moved ob- • liquely to a side, the condyle of the side to which the motion is made slides back from the tubercle to the cavity.—When the mouth is opened by the descent of the lower jaw, the fore-part of it, where the depressing muscles are fixed, is drawn backwards, as well as downwards, while resistance is made to the angles moving backwards by the masseier and internal ptery- goid muscles, and, at the same time, the external pterygoid draw the condyles and their moveable carti- lages forwards; and therefore, when the mouth is open- ed, the condyles are carried forwards upon the tuber- cles, and the axis of motion of the bone is a little above its angles. But in this situation there is less resistance, than in any other, to the condyles luxating forwards; a disease which seldom happens, except when people are gaping too wide; and therefore the common prac- tice of nurses, who support the jaw of infants whenOF THE SKELETON. T13 hey are yawning, is reasonable.—In chewing there is i succession of the motions above described (a). Here a general remark may be made. That where- ;ver moveable cartilages are found in joints, either the n ticulated bones are of such a figure, or so joined and ixed by their ligaments, that little motion would be dlowed without such cartilages; or else some motions ire necessary to the right use of the member, which he form of the articulation would not otherwise allow. This will more fully appear after the other joints with such cartilages are described. In a child born at the full time, the lower jaw is State at composed of two bones, connected by a thin cartilage Birtn« nthe middle of the chin, which gradually ossifies, and ,he two bones intimately unite.—In each of these bones ;here are five or six sockets for teeth, as in the upper aw. After I have thus described theincasement of the Uses* :eeth, the insertion of so many muscles of the tongue, ind of the os hyoides, the connexion of the membrane )f the tongue to the maxillary bone, and the motions )f this bone; it is easy to see, that the lower jaw must )e a principal instrument in manducation, deglutition, md speech. The Teeth are the hard white bodies placed in the Teeth, sockets of both jaws. Their number is generally six- teen above, and as many below ; though some people lave more, others have fewer. The broad thick part of each tooth which appears Parts, without the socket, is thebase or body*.—The smaller processes sunk into the maxillce, are the root-; or fangs which become gradually smaller towards the end far- thest from the base, or are nearly conical, by which the surface of their sides divides the pressure made on the bases, to prevent the soft parts, which are at the (a) For a more full account of this articulation, vid. Edin- burgh Medical Essays and observ. vol. I. art. 11. and vol. III. • art. 13.—Memoires de 1'acad. des sciences, 1744.—St v also Monro's Works, 4to. p. 231, and Barclay on Musts Mot. p. 482. E. * Corona.114 OF THE SKELETON. small points of the sockets, from being hurt by such pressure.—At the place where the base ends, and the roots begin, there is generally a small circular depres- sion, which some call the neck or collar. Without the gums the teeth are covered with no j membrane, and they arc said to have no proper pc- ■ | riostenm within the sockets, but that is supplied byl the reflected membrane of the gums ; which, after a good injection, may be evidently seen in a young sub- • | ject, with the vessels from it penetrating into the sub- -1 stance of the teeth; and it may be discovered in any,| tooth recently puiled, by macerating it in water (a). | The adhesion of this membrane to these roots is;| strengthened by the small furrows observable onil them. Composi- Each tooth is composed of its cortex, or enamel, and tion an internal bony substance. The cortex has no J cavity or place for marrow; and is so solid and hard, I that saws or files can with difficulty make impression;! on it. It is thickest upon the base, and gradually, assl the roots turn smaller, becomes thinner, but not pro- portionally to the difference of the size of the base andil ■ roots.—The fibres of this enamel are all perpendicular to the internal substance, and are straight on the base, ,! but at the sides are arched with a convex part towards J the roots (6); which makes the teeth resist the com--| pression of any hard body between the jaws, with less?! danger of breaking these fibres, than if they had been j situated transversely. The spongy sockets in whichhl the teeth are placed likewise serve better to prevent:! such an injury, than a more solid base would have j done. Notwithstanding the great hardness of tlnVl cortex, it is wasted by manducation. Hence the j sharp edges of some teeth are blunted, and made :l broad, while the rough surfaces of others are madecj smooth and flat, as people advance in life. The bony part of the teeth has its fib es runningd straight, according to the length of the teeth. When:| (a) Cowper, Anat. Explicat. tab. 92; fig. 7. lit. El {&) Havers Osteolosj. nov. disc. t.OF THE SKELETON. 1 15 it is exposed to the air, by the breaking or falling off of the hard cortex, it soon corrupts. And thence carious teeth are often all hollow within, when a very small hole appears only externally. The teeth have canals formed in their middle, Canals; wherein their nerves and blood-vessels are lodged ; which they certainly need, being constantly wasted by the attrition to which they are subjected in man- ducation, and for their further growth, not only after they first appear, but even in adults; as is evident when a tooth is taken out: For then the opposite one becomes longer, and those on each side of the empty socket turn broader; so that when the jaws are brought together, it is scarcely observable where the tooth is wanting (a). The vessels are easily traced so long as they are in Vessels and the large canal, but can scarcely be observed in their Neives. distribution from that to the substance of the teeth of adults. Ruysch (6) however affirms, that after injec- tion he could trace the arteries into the hardest part of the teeth : And Leewenhoek (c) suspected the fibres of the cortex to be vessels. In children I have fre- quently injected the vessels of the teeth as far as their base: And in such as are not entirely ossified, one can with a lucky injection fill so'many vessels, as to make both the outside and inside of the cortical part appear perfectly red.—This plentiful supply of vessels must expose the teeth to the same disorders that attack other vascular parts ; and such teeth as have the greatest number of vessels, must have the most nu- merous chances of being seized with these diseases. Every root of each tooth has such a distinct canal, with vessels and nerves in it. These canals in the teeth with more than one root, come nearer each other, as they approach the base of the tooth ; and at last are separated only by very thin plates, which being generally incomplete, allow a communication of (a) Ingras. de tumor, cap. J. p. 24, 25, 26. (&) Thesaur. 10. num. 27. (r) Arcan, natur. continuat. cpist. p. 5,/ 116 • OF THE SKELETON. all the canals; and frequently only one common! cavity appears within the base, in which a pulpy sul> J stance composed of nerves and vessels is lodged. Tlu J condition therefore of the nerves here bears a stroml analogy to that of the cutaneous nerves which serv< J for the sensation of touching. The entry of the canals for these vessels is a small hole placed a little to a side of the extreme point ov| each root; sometimes, especially in old people, thii | t hole is entirely closed up, and consequently the nerve; and blood-vessels are destroyed (a). Evolution. The teeth are seen for a considerable time in forn J of mucus contained in a membrane; afterwards a thii | cortical plate, and some few osseous layers appeaJ within the membrane, with a large cavity filled wit! mucus in the middle; and gradually this exterior shel I turns thicker, the cavity decreases, the quantity o f mucus is lessened, and this induration proceeds till al the body is formed; from which the roots are after I wards produced. In young subjects, different stamina or rudiment:! of teeth are to be observed. Those next the gum j ordinarily hinder the deeper-seated ones irom makinj I their way out, while these prevent the former fron sending out roots, or from entering deep into the bon; sockets of the jaws ; by which they come to be leas! fixed. Changes. Children are seldom born with teeth ; but at tw*| j'ears of age they have twenty ; and their numbe does not increase till they are about seven years old ! when the teeth that first made their way through the gums are thrust out by others that have been formec deeper in the jaw, and some more of the teeth beg'u to discover themselves farther back in the mouth About fourteen years of age, some more of the firs - crop are shed, and the number is increased.—Thii shedding of the teeth is of good use; for if the firs had remained, they would have stood at a great dis- tance one from another; because the teeth are tot («) Da la Hire Hlstorre de l'acatl. des sciences, 1699.OP THE SKELETON. 117 wd in their outer crust, to increase so fast as the jaws Jo. Whereas both the second layer, and the teeth hat come out late, meeting, while they are soft, with i considerable resistance to their growth in length, Tom those situated upon them, necessarily come out jroad, and fit to make that close guard to the mouth*, vhich they now form. The teeth are joined to the sockets by go?nphosis, Connexion, ind the gums contribute to fix them there ; as is evi- lent by the teeth falling out when the gums are any ray destroyed, or made too spongy ; as in the scurvy v salivations : whence some (a) class this articulation vith the syssarcosis. The uses of the teeth are to masticate our aliment, Uses, nd to assist us in the pronunciation of several letters. Though the teeth so far agree in their structure, Differences et, because of some things wherein they differ, they re generally divided into three classes, viz. incisores, antra, and molarts. The incisores t are the four fore-teeth in each jaw, Tmisores eceivmg their name from their office of cutting our hment • for which they are excellently adapted, be- ig each formed into a sharp-cutting edge at their ase, by their fore-side turning inwards there, while ley are sloped down and hollowed behind J ; so that hey have the form of wedges ; and therefore their ower of acting must be considerably increased — ■eemg m the action of the incisores, a perpendicular Oppression only is necessary, without any lateral lotion, they are not so firmly fixed rn their sockets as ie other teeth are, each having only one short root, u that is broader from before backwards, than to ktner side, to have the greatest strength where it is xposed to the strongest force applied to it lb). I he incisores of the upper jaw, especially the two (a) Drake's Anthropolog. book 4. chap. 3 pwn, qudtcrii, pnmi, pnmores, anter.ores, aeuti. % Lettre sur I'osteologie, ascribed to Dn Verney.118 OF THE SKELETON. middle ones*, are broader and longer generally thar, ij those of the under jaw. In a new born infant, only the outer shell of tlu I body of these teeth is hardened. Afterwards, whci \\ the stamina of two sets are formed, each has its owr \\ socket, those nearest to the edge of the gums bcinr j| placed more forward, and the others are lodged far I ther back within the jaw-bones. Canin'u Canini-\, from the resemblance to dog's tusks, an |t one on each side of the incisores in each jaw. Thi . two in the upper jaw are called eye-teeth, from th< i\ communication of nerves which is said to be betwixil them and the eyes. The two in the lower jaw an*l named angular or nike teeth, because they support th angles of the mouth. The canhri are broader, longer, and stronger, thai*! the incisores. Their bases are formed into a sharj I edge, as the incisores are ; only that the edge riseel into a point in the middle. Each of them has gene*! rally but one long root, though sometimes they hav..l two (a). The roots are crooked towards the endJI The canini of the upper jaw are larger, longer, anal with more crooked roots, than those of the under jawJ The form of their base is fit both for piercing anr<| cutting, and the long crooked root of each makes i if secure in the socket. The canini of a child are much in the same condii; tion as the incisores are. Molares. The denies molares, or grinders*, which have go> their name because they grind our food, are generall; five in each side of each jaw ; in all twenty. Thci bases are broader, more scabrous, and with a thinnee cortical substance, than the other teeth. They hav»i also more roots, and as these roots generally divaricat from each other, the partitions of the sockets betwcei • Duales. •f Kmohvrts, risorii, fractorii, collaterals, coHumellares. (a) Fauchard Chimrtrien dt-ntiste. ohap. 1. } UuXirtu, yoptpu, (iv\»i, *x*mt, Qfturnfis, maxillares, metH1 sales, clavales, buccarum.119 OF THE SKELETON. them bear a large share of the great pressure they suffer, and hinder it from acting on their points (a). The base of the first grinder has an edge pointed in :he middle, on its outside, resembling the canini, from ,vhich it slopes inwards till it rises again into a point, [t has generally but one root, which is sometimes long md crooked at its point. The second dens molaris has two points on its base, •ising nearly equally on its out and inside. It has two •oots, either separate or run together, but shorter than he root of the first. These two anterior grinders are nuch smaller than the three that are placed farther >ack in the mouth. The third and fourth are very broad in their bases, pith four or five points standing out; and they have hree or more roots. The fifth, called commonly dens sapientice*, from Dzntes Sa- ls coming through the gums later than the other ptentim. jrinders, has four points on its base, which is not so arge as the base of the third and fourth, and its roots re less numerous. The incisores of the upper jaw, being broader than hose of the lower jaw, make the superior grinders be ilaced so much farther back than the lower ones, that /hen they are brought together, by shutting the nouth, the points of the grinders of the one jaw enter ito the depressions of the opposite grinders, and they re all equally applied to each other, notwithstanding be inequality of their surface. The numerous roots of the denies molares prevent heir loosening by the lateral pressure they suffer in rinding; and as the sockets in the upper jaw are lore spongy, and the teeth are more liable, by their ituation to fall out (6), the grinders there have more umcrous and more separated roots than in the lower uv, (c). The number however of the roots of the (a) Lottie sur l'osteologie; * "Zuifftvitnps. xgamjgi;, o^iytm, sensns, intellectus, seroti? i, cetatem compleutes, genuini, moderatores. (1) Galen, de ossib. cap. 5. (c) Fauchard. Chirurg. dent. chap. 1.120 OP THE SKELETON. (6) Fauchard. Chiiurgien dentiste, p. 1, teeth of both jaws is very uncertain; sometimes they are more, sometimes fewer; frequently several roots I are joined together; at other times they are all dis-.j tinct. The disposition of such as are«distinct is also | various ; for in some the roots stand out straight, in il others they separate, and in others again they are?j crooked inwards. When the roots are united, we can | still distinguish them, by remarking the number of 1 small holes at their points, which determine thenum--! 1 ber of roots each tooth ought to be reckoned to ha-. e.\| At the time of birth, only two denies molares intJ each jaw have begun to ossify, and that at little more^ than the base, which has several sharp points standing I out from it.—The temporaneous grinders are placeddl more directly upon the internal set than the other two I classes are; sometimes there is a piece of the bone of i the jaws between the two sets; in other children, the I two sets have no bone interposed between them (c). From what has been said, the answers to the fol- lowing queries may be given. Phenomena Why are children subject to salivation, fever, con- explained, vulsion, vomiting, purging, &c. when their teeth are< breeding or cutting the gums. Why in children do the denies mcisores first cut. the gums, the canitri next, and molares last* ? Why do children shed their teeth ? Wherefore have these temporaneous teeth general- ly no roots or very small ones ? Why have these first teeth sometimes roots, anc that more frequently teeth pulled by art than mi those which are shed by nature (b) ? Why do these roots frequently come outward: through the gums ? Whence come batter or buck teeth ? (a\ For the latest information on the Teeth, see Blake's Essa j on the structure and formation of the Teeth, and two works e- The Nat Hist, of the Human Teeth by Hunter and box. • We believe the order here described is not fully warranto fcv general observation. Most late writers describe the fir- molares, or UeusjAies, as appearing before tlx canmu E.OF THE SKELETON'. 121 How do these teeth sometimes go into the natural ■ow with the others, after pulJing a rotten tooth near :hem ? How have some people got two rows of teeth in one >r both jaws (o) ? .Why do the teeth of old people loosen, and then Irop out entire ? Whence arise the new sets of teeth which several ild people obtain (£) ? Why are not the gums of toothless old people torn >y the hard sockets in chewing ? Why are the teeth insensible when slightly filed or asped ? How come they to be sensible of heat or cold, to be Et on edge by acids, or to give an uneasy sensation men gritty or sandy substances are rubbed between lem ? Why does a person who has a pained tooth imagine longer than any other ? W hat is the reason of some persons dying con- ulsed, upon rasping or filing down an overgrown icth (c) ? How do the teeth break and moulder away without ay pain in some people and not in others ? What parts are affected in the tooth-ach ? What are the causes of the tooth ach ? pay worms be reckoned among these causes (d) ? Why are the denies molares most subject to that sease ? In what different manners ought the several classes teeth to be extracted when such an operation is scessary ? Whence proceeds the \iolent obstinate hemorrhagij iich sometimes attends the drawing of teeth (<?) ? (a) Bias Comment, ad Vesling. Syntagm. cap. 1. 30. \V) Hoffman, in Van. Horn, microcosm, p. 58. (c) Bartholin. Anat. reformat lib. 4. cJp. 12. (d) Jacob, in Act. Hafn. vol. 5. obs. 107 —Pechlin. Observ. cue. lib 2. obs. 36—Bartholin. Hist, medic, cent. 3. hist 96 t» Pare' hvre 6. chap. 2 —Rolfinc. lib. 2. cap. 27. & 30-' »ebu Fundam. medicin. cap. 9.—Epbemerid. German, dec. G12^ OF THE SKELETON. Why is it more difficult and dangerous to draw th. eye teeth than any other ? What makes it impossible frequently to draw grin tiers without bringing away part of the jaw-bone wit them7 or breaking the fangs ? Why do teeth soon replaced after being extracted become again fixed in the sockets (a) ? According to the division made of the skeleton, w should now proceed to the description of the trunk ■ the body. But must first consider a bone, which cat not well be said to belong to either the head or tb •trunk •, nor is it immediately joined to any other, at therefore is very seldom preserved with skeleton However, it is generally described by authors aft« the bones of the face : In obedience therefore to tit prevailing method, I shall next examine the structui of - ®s llyoides The Os HYOIDES *, which is situated horizontal between the root of the tongue and the larynx. Itt properly enough named hyoicles, from the resemblan-i it bears to the Greek letter v, and may, for a clear demonstration of its structure, be distinguished into.; body, eornua, and appendices. Body The body is the middle broad part, convex behw and hollow behind.—The convex fore-part is divid into two, by a ridge, -into the middle of which t mylo-hyoidei, and into the sides the stylo-hyoidn, mi cles are inserted.—Above the ridge, the bone is ho zontal, but pitted in the middle by the insertion ■the two gmioihyoidei muscles, and a little hollo* more laterally by the basio-glossi.-Below' the ndj it is convex, but a little flatted in the middle by - sterno-hyoiSet, and pitted more externally by the raco-byoidci.—The concavity behind faces backwa, and downwards to receive the thyroid cartilage, wl l t arm. 5. obs. 519. - Fauchard. Chirug. dentiste, torn. i. cU ll' Motte Chirurgie, torn L chap. 4. ob, 2.-I chard. Chirurgien dentiste, torn. i. chap. U. * Hypsyloides Lambdoides, tnris cs,lingua, os menus Adami, assessor, os laude, b.corne.OF THE SKELETON. 123 he lary/hv and the 0.9 hyoidcs are puiied towards each llier by the action of the sterno-hypidei and hyothy- tidi i muscles ; and to its upper edge, the ligamen- lus membranes of the epiglottis, tongue, and thyroid milage, are fixed. The cornua * of the os hyoidcs are stretched hack- Horns, ai ds from each side of its body, where often a small trrow points out the former separation ; for in young ibjects, the body and cornua are not one continued ibstance, as they come afterwards to be in adults. hese cornua are nr< always straight, nor of equal ogth ; their two plain surfaces stand obliquely slop- g from above outwards and downwards.—Into the ternal, the cerato-glossus is inserted above, and the yro-hyoideus muscle below; and to the one behind, e ligamentous membrane of the tongue and larynx heres. Each of the cornua becomes gradually smal- as it-is extended from the base : but ends in a und tubercle, from which a moveable cartilage stands t, which is connected to the upper process of the rtilago ihyrodea, Where the body of the m hyoidcs jx^ns on each side 4vvendi. th its cornua, a small styliform process, called ap- ccs. ndixi, rises upwards and backwards, into which the isculi stylo-hyoidei alteri, and part of the hyo-glossi iscles are fixed. From each of the m a ligament is* netimes extended to the styloid processes of the tem- ral bones, to keep the 0.9 hyoidcs from being drawn ) much forwards or downwards. The part of this anient next to these processes sometimes forms into reral cartilages, which afterwards ossify in old people rysch {a) says that he has seen this ossification con- ued as far up as the styloid processes, which were Jrefore jomed to the os hyoidcs by anchylosis. iwStT °f 'I* °\ ,iS Cdlular' but co-Sob,l». red with a. hrm external plate, .which is of sufficient ces. ength to bear the actions of so many muscles as are erted into it. * Crura, latera inferiora.OF THE SKELETON. Connexion. ^ '1S not articulated with any hone of the hotly, e:t ccpt hy means of the muscles and ligaments mci tioned. The use of the OS hi/rides, is to serve as a .solid lew. for the muscles to act with, in raising or depressing tit tongue and larynx, or in enlarging and diminishing tit capacity of the fauces. M birth, this hone is in a cartilaginous state-, e« birth. cepting a small point of bone in the middle of its bod- and in each of the cornua.—The appendices frequent remain cartilaginous many years. I'scs. OF THE TRUNK. The Trunk consists of the spine, pelvis, and iJnrai S ine T'ae Spine * is the long pile of bones extended fro the condyles of the occiput to the end of the rump. _ somewhat resembles two unequal pyramids joined ili common base. It is not, however, straight; for upper part being drawn backwards by strong muscl it gradually advances forwards, to support the oesop. o-us, vessels of the head, &c. Then it turns backw^i to make room enough for the heart and lungs. Itf next bended forwards, to support the viscera ot the domen. It afterwards turns backwards, for the lavgement of the pelvis. And, lastly, it is reflected 11 wards, for sustaining the lowest great gut t. Vertebra The spine is commonly divided into true and/.'. vertebrae; the former constituting the long upper muid, which has its base below, while the false « tebrae make the shorter lower pyramid, whose has- above. c The True Vertebra % are the twenty-tour up? TrUC' bones of the spine, on which the several motions ot Ca+,nA natural effect of these flexures is to assist in balancing several parts of the body, and thus to regulate the centre of. vitv See Barclay Muscul. Mot. p. 008 E. V «^fW spOnJyU, ossa orbiculata, ossa * brata, verticula.OF THE SKELETON. , 125 |unk of our bodies are performed ; from which use Ley have justly got their name. Each of these vertebrae is composed of its body and •ocesses. The body is the thick spongy fore-part, -which is Body, invex before *, concave backwards'!", horizontal and ain in most, of them above J aud below —Nome- OS small holes, especially on the fore and back part 'their surface, give passage to their vessels, and allow e ligaments to enter their substance.—The edges of e body of each vertebra are covered, especially at e fore-part, with a ring of bone firmer and more lid than the substance of the body any where else, itse rings seem to be joined to the vertebrae in the nn of epiphyses, but are alleged by some (a) to be e ligaments ossified. They are of great use in pre- nting the spongy bodies from being broken in the jtions of the trunk.1 Between the bodies of each two adjoining vertebrae, Intervevte- substance of a nature between ligament and car-bral sub- age is interposed ; which seems to consist of Ccn-Stance- ntrical curved fibres, when it is cut horizontally 5 t when it is divided perpendicularly, the fibres ap- ar oblique^ and decussating each other (o). The ter part of the intervertebral ligaments is the most id and hard ; and they gradually-become softer till 7 are almost in the form of a glairy liquor in the ltre ; and therefore these substances were not im- ' iperly called mucous ligaments by the ancients (c). e external fibrous part .of each is capable of heir, J satly extended j and of being compressed into a 7 small space, while the middle fluid part is incom- sssible, or nearly so ; and the parts of this ligament ween the circumference and centre approach in their >perties to either, in proportion to their more solid or re fluid texture. The middle point is therefore a £Wli" J D°rSa<1 K ■ tAlIa»^E. JSacrad.E. a) Fallop. Observ. anatom. I*!!ST$ lA5nat ref0rm' ^ 52~w««™cbt. Syndn. [q) Galen, de usu, part. lib. 12. cap. I&OF THE SKELETON". 120 fulcrum, or pivot, on which the motion of a hall am socket may he made, with such a gradual yielding o the substance of the ligament, in whatever directio our spines are moved, as saves the body from violei] shocks, and their dangerous consequences (a).—Tli ligamento-cartilaginous substance is firmly fixed to tfck horizontal surfaces of the bodies of the vertebrae, \ connect them'j in which it is assisted by a strong men: branous ligament, which lines all their concave surlact and by still a stronger ligament that covers all the anterior convex surface. We may lay it down as a general rule, notwithstaiw ing some exceptions, That the bodies of the vertebn are smaller, and more solid above, but as they di scend, they appear larger and more spongy*; and tbh the cartilages between them are thick, and the sua rounding ligaments strong in proportion to the larg; i.erc of the vertebrae, and to the degree of moth J they perform: Ev which disposition, the great: weight is supported on the broadest best secured has, and the middle of our body, is allowed a large andt! cure motion. Processes From each side of the body of each vertebra a btm bridge is produced backwards, and to a side ; from tt posterior end of which, one slanting process-rises a another descends j the smooth, and what is genera the flattest side of each of these four processes, wni are called the oblique * is covered with a smooth cr tilao-e ; and the two lower ones of each vertebra i fitted to, and articulated with, the two upper or ascei incr oblique processes of the vertebra below, haw their articular ligaments fixed into the rough hue roe their edges. ., From between the oblique processes of each side vertebra is stretched out laterally into a process tha* named transverse. From the back-part of the roots of the two obl.qq and of the transverse process of each side, a broad (a) Medical Essays and Observ. toI. t. ar * Articulator!!, minimi. t. 28.OF THE SKELETON. 127 lique bony plate is extended backwards, where theses [neet, the seventh process of the vertebras takes its rise, and stands out backwards : This being generally sharp pointed and narrow edged, has therefore been called spinal process ; from which this whole chain of Dones has got its name. Besides the common ligament which lines all the in- ernal surface of the spinal processes, as well as of the jodies, there are particular ligaments that connect the jony bridges and processes of the contiguous vertebras together. The substance of the processes is considerably stronger ind firmer, and has a thicker external plate than the )odies of the vertebrce. The seven processes form a concavity at their fore- Vertebral iart, which, joined to the one at the back-part of the Canal, jodies, makes a great hole, and the holes of all the vertebrce form a long large conduit *, for containing the spinal marrow.—In the upper and lower edge of each ateral bridge, there is a notch. These are so adapted :o each other in the contiguous vertebrce, as to form a •ound hole in each side hetween each two vertebrce, .trough which the nerves that proceed from the spinal narrow and its blood vessels pass. The articulations then of these true vertebrce are Artieula- )lainly double j for their bodies are joined by the in-tions. ervening cartilage above described, and their oblique irocesses being tipped with cartilages, are so connect- :d by their ligaments, as to allow a small degree of notion to all sides. Hence it is evident, that their centre of motion is altered in different positions of the ;runk : For when we bow forwards, the upper moved )art bears entirely en the bodies of the vertebrae : If sve bend back, the oblique processes support the weight : If we recline to one side, we rest upon the ahlique processes of that side and part of the bodies : tf we stand erect, all the bodies and oblique processes, lave their share in our support. * 'l£ga toyyt, <ru\nv, Canalis.128 OF THE SKELETON. Advan- Hence it follows, 1. 3?batbecause the joints of which i| tages. (]1C SpJne Js composed are so numerous, the spinal mar- I row, nerves, blood-vessels, &c. are not liable to such | compression and over-stretching in the motion of the trunk of the body, as they would otherwise be, since f several vertebrce must be concerned in every motion J of the spine •, and therefore a very small curvature ig J made at the conjunction of any two vertebra- (a)..| L2. That an erect posture is the surest and firmest, be—I cause the surface of contact of the fulcra is largest,-,,! paid the weight is most perpendicular to them (&)...I 5. That the muscles which move the spine act with i| greater force in bringing the trunk to an erect posture,,! than in drawing it to any other : for in bending for--| wards, backwards, or to a side, the muscles which per--! form any of these actions-are nearer the centre of mo—! tion •, consequently the lever with which they act ist shorter, than when the centre of motion is on the partt of the vertebra, opposite to that where these muscles* are inserted ; which is the case in raising the trunk.. This is extremely necessary ; since, in the deflections of the spine from a perpendicular bearing, the weight of the body soon inclines it which way we design*,; whereas, in raising us erect this great weight must he? more than counteracted. 4. In calculating the forces exerted by the muscles which move the spine, we* should always make allowance for the action of the-? cartilages between the ver'tebrce, which, in every mor- tion from an erect posture, must be stretched on onee side, and compressed on the other, both which theyv resist-, whereas, in raising the tiunk, these cartilages* assist by their springy force (c). 5. We are bencei naturally led into the reason of our height of stature* increasing in the morning, and diminishing at night; (rf) : for the intermediate cartilages of the vertebra' (a) Galen, de nsu part. lib. 12. cap. 12, (b) Paaw de cssib. part. 2. cap. 2. ^ (c) Borelli, de motu animal, pars 1. scliol. ad propos. 5e.-; Parent. Histoire de l'acad, des sciences, 1702. (d) Wasse Philosoph. transact, numb. 583. art. 1.OF THE SKELETON* 129 Being pressed all day long by the weight of our body, become more compact and thin in the evening ; but when they are relieved from this pressure in the night, they again expand themselves to their former thick- ness and seeing the bulk of any part must vary ac- cording to the different distension or repletion of the vessels composing it, we may understand how we be- come taller after a plentiful meal, and decrease after fasting or evacuations (a). 6. From the different ar- ticulations of the bodies, and oblique processes of the- v&rtebrw, and the different strength of the ligaments, it is plain, that they are formed so as to allow much larger motion forwards than backwards ; this last be- ing of much less use^and might be dangerous, by overstretching the large blood-vessels that are con- tiguous to the bodies of the vertebrce {b). 7. The in- tervertebral cartilages shrivelling as they become more- solid by age, is the cause why old people generally iow forwards, and cannot raise their bodies to such an rect posture as they had in their youth. The true vertebrae serve to give us an erect posture ; Uses. :o allow sufficient and secure motion to the head, leek, and trunk of the body, and to support and de- end the bowels, and other soft parts. At the ordinary time of birth, each vertebra consists State at >f three bony pieces, connected by cartilages; toBirth' vit, the body, which is not fully ossified, and a long ;roolced bone on each side ; on which we see a small hare of the. bony bridge, the oblique processes com- pete, the beginning transverse processes, and the >blique plate, but no spinal processes, so that the te- guments are in no danger of being hurt by the sharp :nds of thess spinal processes, while a child is in its >ended posture in the womb, nor while it is squeezed n the birth. From this general mechanism of the spine, an ac- tw ount is easily deduced of all the different preternatu- ties ST" al curvatures of which the spine is capable : for ifplaiued, («) Abbe Tontcnu Histoire de l'acad. des sciences, 172?. (6) Calcn, de usu part. lib. 1. cap. 16,OF THE SKELETON-* 130 one or more vertebra;, or their cartilages, are of un- equal thickness in opposite sides, the spine must be reclined over to the thinner side; which now sustaining the greatest share of the weight, must still be more compressed, consequently hindered from extending it- self in proportion to the other side, which, being too- much freed of its burden, has liberty to enjoy a luxu-i riant growth. The causes on which such an inequality of thickness in different sides of the vertebrae depends! may vary : for either it may be owing to an over-, distension of the vessels of one side, and from thence a preternatural increase of the thickness of that part; or, which more commonly is the case, it may proceed* from an obstruction of the vessels, by which the ap-> plication of proper nourishment to the bony substance is hindered ; whether that obstruction depends on the- faulty disposition of the vessels or fluids, or if it is produced by an unequal mechanicaL pressure, occa-i sioned by a paralytic weakness of the muscles and 1m gaments, or by a spasmodic over-action of the muscles- on any side of the spine, or by people continuing long,: or putting themselves frequently into any posture de< dining from the erect one : In all these cases one conK mon effect follows, to wit, the ver tebrae, or their car-r tilages, or both, turn thick ou that side where the ves-s sels are free, and remain thin on the ether side where the vessels are straitened or obstructed. Whenevei any morbid curvature is thus made, a second turn.' but in an opposite direction to the former, must bo formed j both because the muscles on the convex side of the spine being stretched, must have a stronger na- tural contraction to draw the parts to which their ends are fixed, and because the patient makes eflorts td keep the centre of gravity of the body perpendiculai to its base, that the muscles may be relieved irom s constant violent contractile state, which always createli uneasiness and pain. .■ When once we understand how these crooked spni* are produced, there is little difficulty in forming a jusfc prognosis ; and a proper method of cure may be eas* h contrived, which must vary as to the internal rncOF THE SKELETON.' dicines, according to the different causes on which the disease depends : But one general indication must be pursued by surgeons; which is, to counteract the bending force, by increasing the compression on the convex part of the curvature, and diminishing it on the concave side. The manner of executing which in particular cases must be different, and requires a very accurate examination of the circumstances both of the disease and patient. In many such cases, I have found some simple directions, as to postures in which the patient's body should be kept, of very great ad- vantage. Though the true vertebrae agree in the general Difler- structure which I have hitherto described; yet, because ences. of several specialities proper to a particular number, they are commonly divided into three classes, viz. cer- vical, dorsal, and lumbar *. The cervical + are the seven uppermost vertebrae ; Cervical which are distinguished from the rest by these marks. Vertebrae Their bodies are smaller and more solid than any others, and flatted on the fore part, to make way for the (esophagus ; or rather this flat figure is owing to :he pressure of that pipe, and to. the action of the longi jolli and anterior recti muscles. They are also flat lehind, where small processes rise, to which the in- ternal ligaments are fixed. The upper surface of the )ody of each vertebra is made hollow, by a slanting .hin process which is raised on each side : The lower lurface is also excavated, but in a different manner ; or here the posterior edge is raised a little, and the one aefore is produced a considerable way. Hence we see low the cartilages between those bones are firmly con- lected, and their articulations are secure. The cartilages between these vertebrae are thick, specially at their fore part; which is one reason why :he vertebrae advance forward as they descend, and. lave larger motion. * See Barcl. Muscul. Mot. p. 564. E. j Tt>*X*i?>v, ioxtis, colli.152 OF THE SKELETON. The oblique processes of these hones of the neck, more justly deserve that name than those of any other vertebrae. They are situated slanting; the upper ones- - having their smooth and almost flat surfaces facing obliquely backwards and upwards, while the inferior oblique processes have these surfaces facing obliquely forwards and downwards. The transverse processes of these vertebrae are fram- ed in a different manner from those of any other bones of the spine : For besides the common transverse pro- cess rising from between the oblique processes of each side, there is a second that comes out from the side of the body of each vertebra ; and these two processes, after leaving a circular hole for the passage of the eu- vical artery and vein, unite, and are considerably hol- lowed at their upper part, with rising sides, to protect the nerves that pass in the hollow ; and at last each side terminates in an obtuse point, for the insertion o£.F muscles. The spinal processes of these cervical bones stand \ nearly straight backwards, are shorter than those of any other vertebrae, and are forked or double at their r ends ; and hence allow a more convenient insertion too muscles. The thick cartilages between the bodies of theses cervical vertebrae, ike obliquity af their oblique pro- cesses, and the shortness and horizontal situatien of i 1 their spinal processes, all conspire to allow them large motion. The holes between the bony cross bridges, for the passage of the nerves from the spinal marrow, have their largest share formed in the lowest of the two ver-f tcbrae, to which they are common. S» far most of the cervical vertebrae agree ; but thejn have some particular differences, which oblige us t«l consider them separately. The first, from its use of supporting the head. ha*< the name of atlas * ; and is also called eju'sirophca, from the motion it performs on the second.OF THE SKELETON-. l$% The atlas, contrary to all the other vertebrae of the spine, has no body 5 but, instead of it, there is a bony arch. In the convex fore-part of which, a small rising appears, where the miesculi longi colli are in- serted } and, on each side of this protuberance, a small cavity may be observed, where the recti intend mino- res take their rise. The upper and lower parts of the arch are rough and unequal, where the ligaments that connect this vertebra to the os-occipitis, and to the se- cond vertebra are fixed. The back-part of the arch is concave, smooth, and covered with a cartilage, in. a recent subject, to receive the tooth-like process of the second vertebra. In a first vertebra from which the second has been separated, this hollow makca the pas- sage for the spinal marrow seem much larger than it really is : On each side of it a small rough sinuositv may be remarked, where the ligaments going to the sides of the tooth-like process of the following vertebra are fastened ; and on each side, a small rough protu- berance and depression is observable, where the trans- verse ligament, which secures the tooth-like process in the sinuosity, is fixed, and hinders that process from injuring the medulla spinalis in the flexions of the head. • The ailas has as little spinal process as body ; but instead of it, there is a large bony arch, that the musl cles which pass over this vertebra at that place might not be hurt m extending the head. On the back and upper part of this arch there are two depressions, where the recti postici minores take their rise ; and at the lower part are two other sinuosities, into which the ligaments which connect this bone to the following one are fixed. 8 The superior oblique processes of this atlas arc large, oblong, hollow, and more horizontal than in any other vcrtebra.-Thej rise more in their external* than internal f brim J by which their articulations with the condyloid processes of the as occipitis are firmer—Under the external edge of each of these ob- *La,craL r" f Mesial. E*OF THE SKELETON: 134- liquc processes, is the fossa, or deep open channel, in which the vertebral arteries make the circular turn, as they are about to enter the great foramen of the occi- pital bone, and where the tenth pair of nerves goes | out.—In several bodies, 1 have seen this fossa covered I with bone.—The inferior oblique processes extending ; from within outwards and downwards, are large, con- cave, and circular. So that this vertebra, contrary to the other six, receives the bones with which it is arti- culated both above and below. The transverse processes here are not much hol- lowed or forked, but are longer and larger than those j of any other vertebra of the neck, for the -origin and insertion of several muscles ; of which those that serve • to move this vertebra on the second have a consider- able lever to act with, because of the distance of their insertion from the axis of revolution. The hole for the spinal marrow is larger in this than i in any other vertebra, not only on account of the mar- ■ row being largest here, but also to prevent its being hurt by the motions of this vertebra on the second one.. This large hole, and the long transverse processes,. make this the broadest vertebra of the neck. The condyles of the os occipitis move forwards and hackwards in the superior oblique processes of this vertebra; but from the figure of the bones forming these joints, it appears, that very little motion can here be allowed on either side ; and there must be still less circular motion. In new-born children this vertebra has only the two lateral pieces ossified ; the arch, which it has at its fore-part instead of a body, being cartilaginous. Teriebra The second vertebra colli is called den tat a, from the Dentata. tooth-like process on the upper part of its body. Some authors call it epistrnphea, but improperly* since this designation is applicable only to the first, which moves on this as on an axis. The body of this vertebra is somewhat of a pyra* • iritdal figure, being large, and produced downward^ especially at its fore-side, to enter into a hollow of the vertebra below ■> while the upper part has a square-OF THE SKELETON. process with a small point standing out from it. This it is that is imagined to resemble a tooth,* and has given name to the vertebra.—The side of this process, on which the hollow of the anterior arch of the first vertebra plays, is convex, smooth, and covered with a cartilage ; and it is of the same form behind, for the- ligament, which is extended transversely from one rough protuberance of the first vertebra to the other, and is cartilaginous in the middle, to move on it.—A ligament likewise goes out in au oblique transverse direction, from each side of the processus dentatus, to be fixed at its other end to the first vertebra, and to the occipital bone ) and another ligament rises up from near the point of the process to the os occipitis. The superior oblique processes of this vertebra den- tata are large, circular, very nearly in an horizontaF position, and slightly convex, to be adapted to the inferior oblique processes of the first vertebra.—A moveable cartilage is said by some authors to be in- terposed between these oblique processes of the first and second vei^tebra ; but I could never find it.—The inferior oblique processes of this vertebra dentata an- swer exactly to the description given of those common to all the cervical vertebrae. The transverse processes of the vct^tcbra dentata are short, very little hollowed at their upper part,, and not forked at their ends j and the canals through which the cervical arteries pass, are reflected outwards about the middle substance of each process ; so that the course of these vessels may be directed towards the transverse processes of the first vertebra.—Had this curvature of the arteries been made in a part so move- able as the neck is, while they were not defended by a bone, and fixed to that bone, scarcely a motion could have been performed without the utmost hazard ©f compression, and a stop put to the course of the liquids, with all its train of bad consequences. Hence we observe this same mechanism several times made »se of, when there is any occasion for a sudden cur_~ # Conoides, pyrenoides, odontoides.i3G OF THE SKELETON. vature of a larger artery. This is the third remarkable instance of it we have seen. The first was the pas- sage of the carotids through the temporal-hones ; and the second was that lately described in the vertebral arteries, turning round the oblique processes of the first vertebra^ to-come at the great hole of the occipital bone. The spinal process of this vertebra dentata is thick, strong, and short, to give sufficient origin to the mus- evM. recti majores, and oblique inferiores, and to pre- vent the contusion of these and other muscles in pul- ling the head back. This second vertebra consists, at the birth, of four bonv pieces : For, besides the three which I already mentioned as common to all the vertebrae, the tooth- like process of this bone is begun at this time to be ossified in its middle, and is joined as an appendix to the body of the bone.-—Lest this appendix be bended or displaced, nurses ought to keep the heads of new- born children from falling too far backwards by stay- bands, or some such means, till the muscles attain strength sufficient to prevent that dangerous motion. Motions of When we arc acquainted with the structure and ar- ihc Head ticulations of the first and second vertebrae, and know and Atlas. exactiy t}je strength and connection of their ligaments, there is no difficulty in understanding the motions that are performed upon or by the first; though this sub- ject was formerly matter of hot dispute among same of the greatest anatomists (a): It is none of my pur- pose at present to enter into a detail of the reasons ad- vanced by either party •, but to explain the fact, as any one may see it, who will remove the muscles,- which in a recent subject, hinder the view of these two joints, and then will turn the head into all the dif- ferent positions of which it is capable. The head may. then be seen to move forwards and backwards on the first vertebra, as was alway said, while the atlas per- forms the circumgijratio upon the second vertebra; the inferior oblique processes of the first vertebra slrafl {a) See Eustach. <le motu capitisOF THE SKELETON. ]37 l fling easily in a circular way on the superior oblique processes of the second, and its bodv or anterior arch having a rotation on the tooth-like process, by which the perpendicular ligament that is sent from the point of the tooth-like process to the occipital bone is twisted, while the lateral ligaments that fix the pro- cessus dentatus to the sides of the first vertebra, and to the os occipitis, are very differently affected 3 for the one upon the side towards which the face is turned bv the circumgyration is much shortened and lax, while the opposite one is stretched and made tense, and yielding at last 110 more, prevents the head from turn- ing any farther round on this amis. So that these la- teral ligaments are the proper moderators of the cir- cumgyratio of the head here, which must be larger or smaller, as these ligaments are weaker or stronger, longer, or shorter, and more or less capable of being- stretched.—Besides the revolution on this axis, the first vertebra can move a small way to either side 3 but is prevented from moving backwards and forwards, by its anterior arch, and by the cross ligament, which are both closely applied to the tooth-like process. Motion forwards here would have been of vav bad consequence, as it would Lave brought the beginning of the spinal marrow upon the point of the tooth-like process. The rotatory motion of the head is of great use to US on many accounts, by allowing us to apply quickly our organs of the senses to objects : and the axis of rotation was altogether proper to be at this place ; for if it had been at a greater distance from the head, the weight of the head, if it had at any time been re- moved from a perpendicular bearing to the small very moveable joint, and thereby had acquired a long lever, would have broken the ligaments at every turn inconsiderably performed y or these ligaments mail, have been formed much stronger than could have been, connected to such small bones. Nor could this cir- cular motion be performed on the first vertebra with- out danger, because the immoveable part of the me- dulla oblongata is so near, that at each large turn, the138 OF THE SKELETON. beginning of the spinal marrow would have been in i danger of being twisted, and of suffering by the com- pression this would have made on its tender iiljiils. It is necessary to observe, that the lateral or mode- rator ligaments confine so much the motion of the first ■vertebra upon the second,, that, though this joint mayi serve us on several occasions, yet we are often obliged! to turn our faces farther round, than could be done by this joint alone, without the greatest danger of twist- ing the spinal marrow two much, and also of luxating, the oblique processes ; therefore, in large turns of thia« kind, the rotation is assisted by all the vertebrae of the neck and loins ; and if this is not sufficient, we em- ploy most of the joints of the lower extremities.—This- combination of a great many joints towards the per- formance of one motion, is also to be observed ini several other parts of the body ; notwithstanding such-i motions being generally said to be performed by somee single joint only *. 5d4th,5ih ^'ie tmr(* vertebra of the neck is by some called and6th. axis; but this name is applied to it with much less reason than to the second.—This third, and the three- helow, have nothing particular in their structure \ butt all their parts come under the general description for- merly given, each of them being larger as they de- scend. Seventh. The seventh t vertebra of the neck is near to the form of those of the back, having the upper and lower: surfaces of its body less hollow than the others :---The oblique processes are more perpendicular;—neither: spinal nor transverse processes are forked. This - seventh and the sixth vertebra of the neck have the hole in each of their transverse processes more fre- quently divided by a small cross bridge, that iroes be- tween the cervical vein and artery, than any of the other vertebrae. * See Barclay's Muscular Motions, p. 512. E. f Alias quibusdam, maxima, magna vertebra, prominens.OF THE SKELETON. 139 The twelve dorsal* may be distinguished from the Dorsal other vertebrae of the spine by the following marks : Verteb: Their bodies are of a middle size, betwixt those of the neck and loins they are more convex before than either of the other two sorts ; and are flatted la- terally by the pressure of the ribs, which are inserted into small cavities formed in their sides. This flatting on their sides, which makes the figure of these verte- brae almost an half oval, is of good use; as it affords a firm articulation to the ribs, allows the trachea arteria to divide at a small angle, and the other large vessels to run secure from the action of the vital organs.--- These bodies are more concave behind than any ot the other two classes.-—Their upper and lower surfaces are horizontal. The cartilages interposed between the bodies of these vertebrae are thinner than in any other of the true vertebrae ; and contribute to the concavity of the spine in the thorax, by being thinnest at their fore- part. The oblique processes are placed almost perpen?- dicular ; the upper ones slanting but. a little forwards, and the lower ones slanting as much backwards.-— They have not so much convexity or concavity as is worth remarking.—Between the oblique processes of opposite sides, several sharp processes stand out from the upper and lower parts of the plates which join to form the spinal process into these sharp processes strong ligaments are fixed, for connecting the vertebrae. The transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrae are long, thicker at their ends than in the middle, and turned obliquely backwards y which may be owing to the pressure of the. ribs, the tubercles of which arc inserted into a depression near the end of the e pro- cesses. The spinal processes are long, small pointed, and sloping downwards and backwards-, from their upprr and back-part a ridge rises, which is received by a turis, tergi.140 OF THE SKELETON. small channel in the fore part of the spinal process im- mediately above, which is here connected to it by a li- gament. The conduit of the spinal marrow is here more cir- cular, but corresponding to the size of that cord, is smaller than in any of the other vertebrae and a larger share of the holes in the bony ridges, for the transmis- sion of the nerves, is formed in the vertebra above, than in the one below. The connection of the dorsal vertebrae to the ril)3, the thinness of their cartilages, the erect situation of the oblique processes, the length, sloping, and con- nexion of the spinal processes, all contribute to restrain these vertebrae from much motion, which might disturb the actions of the heart and lungs ; and, in conse- quence of the little motion allowed here, the intervcrli- hral cartilages sooner shrivel, by becoming more solid : And therefore, the first remarkable curvature of the spine observed, as people advance to old age, is in the least stretched vertebrae of the back ; or old people first become round-shouldered. The bodies of the four uppermost dorsal vertebrae deviate from the rule of the vertebrae becoming larger as they descend : for the first of the four is the largest, and the other three below gradually become smaller, to. »lto'w the trachea and large vessels to divide at smaller angles. The two uppermost vertebrae of the back, instead of being very prominent forwards, are flatted by the ac- tion of the mtisci/H l&nkt colli and recti majores. The proportional size of the two little depressions in the body of each vertebra for receiving the heads of the ribs, seems to vary in the following manner : The depression on the upper edge of each vertebra de- creases as far down as the fourth, and after that in- creases. The transverse processes are longer in each lower ■vertebra to the seventh or eighth, with their smooth surfaces, for the tubercles of the ribs, facing gradually more downwards ; but afterwards as they descend.Oi! THE SKELETON. they become shorter, and the smooth surfaces are di- rected more upwards. The spinous processes of the vertebrae of the back become gradually longer and more slanting from the first, as far down as the eighth or ninth vertebra; from which they manifestly turn shorter and more erect. The first * vertebra., besides an oblong hollow in its Yhst. lower edge, that assists in forming the cavity wherein the second rib is received, has the whole cavity for the head of the first rib formed in it. The second has the name of axillary^, without any Second thing particular in its structure. The eleventh % often has the whole cavity for the Eleventh eleventh nb in its body, and wants the smooth surface on each transverse process. The twelfth || always receives the whole head of the Twelfth, last nb, and has no smooth surface on its transverse processes, which are very short—The smooth surfaces of its inferior oblique processes face outwards as the lumbar do.—And we may say, in general, that the upper vertebrae of the back lose gradually their resem- hiance to those of the neck, and the lower ones come nearer to the figure of the lumbar. The articulation of the vertebrae of the back with the ribs, shall be more particularly considered alter the ribs are described. Only it may be proper now to re- mark, diat the ligaments which serve that articulation assist in connecting the vertebrae. The lowest order of the true vertebrae is the lumbar $ T , which are live bones, that may be distinguished from Vmebra, many others by these marks: t Their bodies, though o a circular form at their fore-part, are somewhat oblong from one side to the other ; which may he oc- casioned by the pressure of the large vessels, the aorta * Atxplcn, gutturalis. } A^irr,!, in nentiam partem inclinans. || Aiuruffvf, pnacingens. § Offuti tytf, ^oiuv, rcnum, lumboium.OF THE SKELETON. 142 and cava, and of the viscera. Hie epiphyses on tlieir edges are larger, and therefore the upper and lower surfaces of their hodies are more concave than in the vertebrae of the back. 2. The cartilages between those vertebrae are much the thickest of any, and ren- der the spine convex within the abdomen, by their greatest thickness being at their fore-part. 5. The oblique processes are strong and deep j those in oppo- site sides being placed almost in parallel planes j the superior, which are concave, facing inwards, and the convex inferior ones facing outwards*, and therefore each of these vertebrae receives the one above it, and is received by the one below ; which is not so evident in the other two classes already described. 4. Their transverse processes are small, long, and almost erect, for allowing large motion to each bone, and sufficient insertion to muscles, and for supporting and defending the internal parts. 5. Betwixt the roots of the supe- rior oblique and transverse processes, a small protu- berance maybe observed, where some of-the muscles that raise the trunk of the body are inserted. 6. Their spinal processes are strong, straight, and horizontal, with broad flat sides, and a narrow edge above and below *, this last being depressed on each side by muscles. And at the root of these edges, we see rough surfaces for fixing the ligaments. 7. The ca- ■ nal for the numerous cords, called eauda equina, into •which the spinal marrow divides, is rather larger in i these bones than what contains that marrow in the vertebrae of the back. 8. The holes for the passage of the nerves are more equally formed out of both the | contiguous vertebrae than in the other classes ; the up- per one furnishes however the larger share of eachi hole. The thick cartilages between these lumbar vertebrae, their deep oblique processes, and their erect spinal processes, are all fit for allowing large motion ; though- it is not so great as what is performed in the neck which appears from comparing the arches which the. head describes when moving on the neck, or the loins- only.t OF THE SKELETON. 143 The lumbar vertebrae as they descend, have their oblique processes at a greater distance from each other, and facing more backwards and forwards. Both transverse and spinal processes of the middle- most vertebrae of the loins are longest and thickest ; in the vertebrae above and below they are less : So that these processes of the first* and fifth t are the least, to prevent their striking on the ribs or ossa ilium, or their bruising the muscles in-the motions of the spine. The epiphyses round the edges of the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae are most raised in the two lowest, which consequently make them appear hollower in the middle than the others are. The hody of the fifth vertebra is rather thinner than that of the fourth.—The spinal process of this fifth is smaller, and the oblique processes face more back- wards and forwards than in any other lumbar verte- bra. -After considering the structure of the particular ver- Security icbrae, and their mutual connexion, we may observe", from Lux*- ii solicitous care taken that they shall not be disjoined,tion- -but with great difficulty •, for besides being connected by strong ligaments proportioned to the forces which are to be resisted, their bodies either enter so into each other, as to prevent their being displaced any way, as in the vertebrae of the neck; or they are propped on all •sides, as those of the back are by the ribs ; or their sur- faces of contact are so broad, as to render the separa- tion almost impracticable, as in the loins ; while the depth and articulation of the oblique processes are ex- actly proportioned to the quantity of motion which the other parts of the bones allow, or the muscles can per- form : Yet, as these oblique processes are small, and therefore not capable of so secure a conjunction as the larger bodies, they may sooner yield to a disjoining force ; but then their dislocation is not of nearly so bad consequence as the separation of the bodies would be. For, by the oblique processes being dislocated, the * Nsp{/7-»»f, renalis. f A<r£«x/T»y, fulciens.OF THE SKELETON. muscles, ligaments, and spinal marrow are indeed | stretched j but this marrow must he compressed, or j entirely destroyed, when the body of the vertebra is -I removed out of its place. False Ver- The False Vertebr/e compose the under pyramid jj ttbra. 0f t]le spine. They are distinguished from the bones I already described justly enough by this epithet of false; M because though each bone into which they can be di-.-l vided in young people, resembles the true vertebrae innl figure, yet none of them contribute to the motion of :l the trunk of the body ; they being intimately uniteddl to each other in adults, except at their lower part, J where they are moveable ; whence they are commonly | divided into two hones, os sacrum and coccygis. OsSacrum. Os Sacrum *, is so called, from being offered ina sacrifice by the ancients, or rather because of its- largeness in respect of the other vertebrae.—This bone is of an irregular triangular shape, broad above, nar- row below, convex behind, for the advantageous oiigino of the muscles that move the spine and thigh back-.- wards and concave before, for enlarging the cavity oi I the pelvis.—Four transverse lines of a colour different! from the rest of the hone which are seen on its fore-- part, are the marks of division of the five different! bones of which it consists in young persons. SurFaces. The fore-part of the os sacrum, analogous to the^ bodies of the true vertebrae, is smooth and flat, to allow a larger space for the contained bowels, without anyj danger of hurting them ; or this flat figure may bee owing to the equal pressure of these bowels, particu- • larly^f the last gut. The back part of it is almost i straight, without so large a cavity as the vertebrae have ; because the spinal marrow, now separated into' the cauda equina, is small. The bridges between the-- bodies and processes of this bone, are much thicker; and in proportion shorter, than in the former class oi' hones. The strength of these cross bridges is very remarkable in the three upper bones, and is well pro- * *U(it, «*t&»Xtt fuy*t H'ppocrat. iwr*v>3iA«i>, Oribas.* *\xrv, latum, os clunium, clavium.OF THE SKELETON* 145 portioned to the incumbent weight of the trunk of the body, which these bridges sustain in a transverse, con- sequently an unfavourable, situation, when the body is erect. erect. Th crum There are only two oblique processes of the os sa- P urn; one standing out on each side from the upper part of the first bone—Their plain erect surfaces face backwards, and are articulated with the inferior ob- lique processes of the last vertebra of the loins, to which each of these processes is connected by a strong ligament, which rises from a scabrous cavity round their roots, where mucilaginous glands are also lodged. —Instead of the other oblique processes of this bone four rough tubercles are to be seen on each side of its surface behind, from which the musculus sacer * has its origin. The transverse processes here are all grown together into one large strong oblong process on 'each side < which so far as it answers to the fVst three bones is ^ery thick, and divided into two irregular cavities, by i long perpendicular ridge.—The foremost of the two cavities has commonly a thin cartilaginous skin cover- ing it in the recent subject, and is adapted to the un- gual protuberance of the os ilium, and a strong ]J£a_ nent connects the circumference of these surfaces of :he two bones. The cavity behind is divided by a ransverse ridge into two, where strong ligamentous tongs, that go from this bone to the os ilium with a ellular substance containing mucus, are lodged. lhese transverse processes of the two last bones of \\e os sacrum *ve much smaller than the former — U their back-part near their edge, a knob and oblong [at surface give rise to two strong ligaments which ire extended to the os ischium^ and are therefore ailed sacrosciatic. The spinal processes of the three uppermost bones iect while the two lower ones are open behind : and ometimes a little knob is to be seen on the fourth, * Part of tlie Intcrtransversarii dorsi. Alb. E.146 OF THE SKELETON. though generally it is bifurcated, without the two legs | meeting into a spine ; in which condition also the first | is often to be seen ; and sometimes none of them meet,. but leave a sinus, or rather fossa, instead of a canal (a). The musculus latissimus and longissimus dorst, sairo- \ lumbalis, and glutaeus maximus, have part of their ori-. gins from these spinal processes. Canal. The canal between the bodies and processes of tin's bone, for the cauda equina, is triangular \ and becomes smaller as it descends, as the cauda also does. Below-t the third bone, this passage is no more a complete bony, canal, but is open behind ; and is only there defended: by a strong ligamentous membrane stretched over it. which, with the muscles that cover it, and are verji prominent -on each side, is a sufficient defence for the* bundle of nerves within. Foramina. At the root of each oblique process of this bone the notch is conspicuous, by which, and such anothei in the last vertebm of the loins, a passage is left for th« twenty-fourth spinal nerve; and, in viewing the o.-< sacrum, either before or behind, four large holes app pear in each side, in much the same height, as whero the marks of the union of its several bones remain Some of the largest nerves of the body pass througi the anterior holes ; and superficial grooves running outwards from them in different directions, shew thn< course of these nerves. From the intervals of tlics grooves, the pyriformis muscle chiefly rises. Tw holes in the back-part of the bone are covered bj membranes which allow small nerves to pass througi them. The two uppermost of these holes, especiall on the fore-side, are the largest; and as the bone de scends, the holes turn smaller. Sometimes a note:] only is formed at the lower part in each side of thi bone j and in other subjects there is a hole comma to it and the os coccygis, through which the twentj ninth pair of spinal nerves passes-, and frequently bony bridge is formed on the back-part ofcachsid (a-) Verbcycu, Anat. tract. 5. cap. 9—Sue Trad, d'ostccr P. 127.©F THE SKELETON". 347 by a process sent up from the back-part of the os coccygis, and joined to t he little knobs which the last bone of the os sacrum has instead of a spinal process. Under this bridge or jugum, the twenty-ninth pair of spinal nerves runs in its course to the common holes just now described. The upper part of the body of the first bone re- sembles the vertebrae of the loins ; but the small fifth bone is oblong transversely and hollow in the middle of ^ its lower surface. The substance of the os sacrum is very spongy, Substance, without any considerable solid external plates, and" is lighter proportionally to its bulk than any other bone in the body j but is secured from injuries by the thick muscles that cover it behind, and by the strong ligamentous membranes that closely adhere to it.— As th is is one of the most remarkable instances of this sort of defence afforded a soft weak bone, we may make the general observation, That, wherever we meet with such a bone, one or other, or both these de- fences are made use of y the first to ward off" injuries, and the second to keep the substance of the bone from yielding too easily. This bone is articulated above to the last vertebra Connection Bl the loins, in the manner in which the lumbar verte- brae are joined and therefore the same motions may be performed here. The articulation of the lower part the os sacrum to the os epccygis seems well enough idapted for allowing considerable motion to this last >one were it not much confined by ligaments. La- erally, the os sacrum is joined to the ossa ilium by an mmoveable synchondrosis, or what almost deserves the '.ame of a suture -j for the cartilaginous crust on the urfaee of the bones is very thin, and both their surfa- ces are so scabrous and unequal, as to be indented into geh other ; which makes such a strong connexion, hat grea force is required to separate them, after all ne muscles and ligaments are cut. Frequently the wo bones grow together in old subjects. •.The uses of the os sacrum are, to serve as the corn- ion b tse and support of the trunk of the body, toOF THE SKELETON. 148 guard the nerves proceeding from tlie end of the spinal marrow, to defend the back-part of the pelvis, and to aftbrd sufficient origin to the muscles which move the trunk and thigh. State at The bones that compose the os sacrum of infants, Birth. nave their bodies separated from each other by a ! thick cartilage j and, in the same manner as the true.l vertebrae, each of them consists of a body and two la- teral plates, connected together by cartilages ; the ends* of the plates seldom being contiguous behind. Os Cocci/- ()s CoccYGis *, or rump bone, is that triangular | sis' chain of hones depending from the os sacrum; each I hone becoming smaller as they descend, till the last- ends almost in a point. The os coccygis is convex be- hind, and concave before j from which crooked pyrami- dal figure, which was thought to resemble a cuckoo's —beak, it has got its name. , , . This bone consists of four pieces m people of middle -acre :—In children, very near the whole of it is carti- lage • In old subjects all the bones are united, and be- come frequently one continued bone with the os sa- cram. ' . . , , -.i I The hio-hest of the four bones is the largest, with shoulders extended farther to each side than the endi of the os sacrum;- which enlargement should, in nM opinion, serve as a distinguishing mark to fix the J* its of either bone , and therefore should take away all dispute about reckoning the number of bones, oi. Which one or ether of these two parts ^'f^™* tebrce is composed > which dispute must still .he k pt ub so long as the numbering five or six bones in the Vs sacrumdepends upon the unceitain accident ef thu broad shouldered little bone heingunited to or sepa- v-red from it. The upper surface of this bone is 85 hollow. From the back of that bulbous pa* •ailed its shoulders, a process often rises up on eajH 1e to join with the bifurcated spine of the four Jfl fifth bones of the os sacrum, to form the boo) )Tnle mentioned in the description of the os sacrum * ow*n>» «*»caudx os' sP°nd>UuaJ'cs cueulh c si an(OF THE SKELETON. 119 —Sometimes these shoulders are joined to the sides of the fifth bone of the os sacrum, to form the hole in each side common to these two bones, for the passage to the twenty-ninth pair of spinal nerves. Immedi- ately below the shoulders of the os coccygis, a notch may be marked in each side, where the thirtieth pair of the spinal nerves passes. The lower end of this bone is formed into a small head, which very often h hollow in the middle. The three lower bones gradually become smaller, and are spongy j but arc strengthened by a strong liga- ment which covers and connects them. Their ends, by which they are articulated, are formed in the same manner as those of the first bone are. Between each of these four bones of young subjects a cartilage is interposed ; therefore their articulation is analogous to that of the bodies of the vertebrae, of the neck: For, as has been above remarked, the lower end of the os sacrum, and of each of the three superior bones of the os coccygis, has a small depres- sion in the middle ; and the upper part of all the bones of the os coccygis is a little concave, and consequently, the interposed cartilages are thickest in the middle, to fill up both cavities by which they connect the bones more firmly. When the cartilages ossify, the upper end of each bone is formed into a cavity, ex- actly adapted to the protuberant jower end of the bone immediately above. From this sort of articulation, it 'is evident, that, unless when these bones grow top-ether, all of them are capable of motion j of which the first and second, especially this last, enjoys the largest share. The lower end of the fourth bone terminates in a rough point, to which a cartilage is appended. To the sides of these bones of the os coccygis, the coc- cygrei muscles (a), and part of the levators am and of the glutei' maximi, are fixed. (a) Douglas, Myograph, chap. 40.. Eustacli. tab.150 OP THE SKELETON. The substance of these bones is very spongy, and in children cartilaginous , there being only a part of the first bone ossified in a new-boin infant. Since there- fore the intestinum rectum of children is not so firmly supported as it is in adults, this may be one reason why they are more subject to a procidentia ani than eld people (a). From the description of this bone, we see how little t it resembles the vertebrae; since it seldom has pro*-- cesses, never lias any. cavity for the spinal marrow,. nor holes for the passage of nerves. Its connexion I hinders it from being moved to either side, and its> motion backwards and forwards is much confined: Yet, as its ligaments can be stretched by a consider- able force, it is a great advantage in the excretion of. the fences alvince, and much more in child bearing, that: this bone should remain moveable ; and the right ma- nagement of it, in delivering women, may be of greatt benefit to them (b).—The mobility of the os coccygiss diminishing as people advance in age, especially wheal its ligaments and cartilages have not been kept flex-- ible by being stretched, is probably one reason why thei women, who are old maids before they marry, have ge- nerally hard labour in child-bed. The os coccygis serves to sustain the intestinum rec- tum ; and, in order to perforin this office more eftccw tually, it is made to turn with a curve forwards ; by. which also the bone itself, as well as the muscles and. teguments, is preserved from any injury, when we sit; with our body reclined back. Pelvis. The second part of the trunk of the skeleton, the, Pelvis, is the cylindrical cavity at the lower part of J the abdomen, formed by the os sacrum, os coccygis,-. and ossa innominata ; which last therefore fall now iftt course to be examined. (rOSpigel. tie liumani corp. fabric, lib. 2. cap. 22—Paaw, dw Ogsib. par. 2. cap. 3. ' ' (6) Paaw, ibid.—Dcventer, Operat. clurug. cap. %7.OF THE SKELETON* 151 Though the name of Ossa Innominata * contri- Ossa Tuna- Lutes nothing to the knowledge of their situation, strue- minatn- ture, or office j yet they have been so long and uni- versally known by it, that there -is no occasion for changing it. They are two large broad bones, which form the fore-part and sides of the pelvis, and the low- er part of the sides of the abdomen. In children each of these bones is evidently divided into three ; which are afterwards so intimately united, that scarcely the least mark of their former separation remain;-'. Not- withstanding this, they are described as consisting feach of three bones, to wit, the os ilium, ischium, and pubis •, which I shall first describe separately, and then shall consider what is common to any two of them, or to all the three. Os Ilium t, or haunch-bone, is situated highest oforMua* the three, and reaches as far down as one third of tho great cavity into which the head of the thigh-bone is ' received. The external side of this bone is unequally convex, External and is called its dorsum j—the internal concave surface Surface, is by some (but improperly) named its casta. The semicircular edge at the highest part of this bone, which is tipped with cartilage in the recent subject, is named the spine, into which the external or descend- ing oblique muscle of the abdomen is inserted ; and from it the internal ascending ohlique and the trans- verse muscles of the belly, with the gluteus maximuv, ftadratui himhorum, and latissuhus dorsi, have their origin. Some (a) are of opinion, that it is only the tendinous crust of all these muscles, and not a car- tilage, as commonly alleged, that covers this bony edge. The ends of the spine are more prominent than the surface of the hone below them ; therefore arc reckoned processes. From the anterior spinal process, * Sx!>J(yv, vr^offtpuiru;, sacro conjuncta. | K«.yivw, cmo.ii, scaphium, lumbare, clunium, clavium an clias ' («) Winslow Exposition anatomise da corps himiain, trait* des os frais, § 96. '01' THE SKELETON. 152 fche sartori'iis and fascia/is * muscles have their rise, and the outer end of the doubled tendon of the ex- ternal oblique muscle of the abdomen, commonly called Fullopius^s or Pouparfs ligament, is fixed to it. —The inside of the posterior spinal process, and of part of the spine forward from that, is made flat and . rough where the sacrolumbalis and longissim's dorsi rise -7 and to its outside are fixed ligaments, ;xtend- ed to the os sacrum and transverse processes of the fifth and fourth vertebrae of the loins (a). Below the an- • tevior spinal process another protuberance stands out,. which, by its situation, may be distinguished from the former, by adding the epithet of inferior, where the musculus rectus tibiae t has its origin (A). Betwixt' these two anterior processes the bone is hollowed where the beginning of the sartori'iis muscle is lodged. Be- low the posterior spinal process, a second protuberance of the edge of this bone is in like manner observable.- which is closely applied to the os sacrum. Under this ■ last process a considerable large niche is observable in i the os ilium ; between the sides of which and the strong: ligament that is stretched over from the os sacrum to the sharp pointed process of the os ischium of the re- cent subject, a large hole is formed, through which the, ■musculus-pyriformis, the great sciatic nerve, and the posterior crural vessels pass, and are protected fronv. compression. The external broad side or dorsum of the os ilium is> a little hollow towards the fore-part farther back it isa as much raised j then is considerably concave ; andj lastly, it is convex. These inequalities are occasioned: by the actions of the muscles that are situated on thi*i surface. From behind the uppermost of the two an- terior spinal processes, in such bones as are strongly marked by the muscles, a semicircular ridge is ex- tended to the hollow passage of the sciatic nerve. Be- * Tensor vaginae femoris. Alb. E. ^ (a) Weitbrecht, Syndcsmolog. sect. 4*. § 59, 10, *G,.^. f Rectus cruris Alb. E. (&) Baker, Curs, osteolog. dewoustr. 3.OF THE SKELETON. " 5i 2. tween the spine and this ridge, the ghitaciis medius takes its rise. Immediately from above the lowest of the anterior spinal processes, a seGond ridge is stretch- ed to the niche. Between this and the former ridge, the glutaeiis minimus has its origin. On the outside of the posterior spinal processes, the dorsum of the os ilium is flat and rough, where part of the musctdus glu- taeiis masntmus and pyriformis rises. The iowest part of this bone is the thickest, and is formed into a large cavity with high brims, to assist in composing the great acetabidum ; which shall be considered, after all the three bones that constitute the os innominutum are des- cribed. The internal surface of the os ilium is concave in its internal, broadest fore-part, where the internal iliac muscle has Surface, its origin, and some share of the intestinum Hi and colon is lodged. From this large hollow, a small sinuo- sity is continued obliquely forwards, at the inside of the anterior inferior spinal process, where part of the psoas and iliacus muscles, with the crural vessels and nerves pass. The large concavity is bounded below by a sharp ridge, which runs from behind forwards j and, being continued with such another ridge of the os pubis, forms a line of partition between the ubdomen ■and pelvis. Into this ridge the broad tendon of the psoas parius is inserted. ; All the internal surface of the os ilium, behind this ridge, is very unequal: For the upper part is flat, but spongy, where the sacrolvmbalis and longissimus doisi rise. Lower down, there is a transverse ridge from which ligaments go out to the os sacrum. Immediate- ly' below this ridge, the rough unequal cavities and pro- minences are placed, which are exactly adapted to those described on the side of the os sacrum. In the same manner, the upper part of this rough surface is porous, for the firmer adhesion of the ligamentous cel- lular substance ; while the lower part is more-solid, and covered with a thin cartilaginous skin, for its im- moveable articulation with the os sacrum. From all the circumference of this large unequal surface, lie*,OF THE SKELETON. 151. ments are extended to the os sacrum, to secure more firmly the conjunction of these bones. The passages of the medullary vessels are very con- spicuous, both in the dorsum and casta of many ossa ilium ; but in others they are'inconsiderable. Substance. The posterior and lower parts- of these bones are ' thick but they are generally exceedingly thin and ,„ tmA compact at their middle, where they are exposed to the actions of the musculi glutaei and iliacus internus, and to the pressure of the bowels contained in the belly. The substance of the ossa ilium is mostly cellular, ex- cept a thin external table. State a$ 1" a riPe child, the spine of the os ilium is cartila- Birth. ginous, and is afterwards joined to the bane in form of an epiphyse.—The large lower end of this bone is not completely ossified. Qslschium. Os Ischium * or hip bone, is of a middle bulk be- tween the two other parts of the as mnominatum, is situated lowest of the three, and is of a very irregular figure.—Its extent might be marked by an horizontal line drawn nearly through the middle of the acetabulum ; for the upper bulbous part of this bone forms somewhat less than the lower half of that great cavity, and the small leg of it rises to much the same height on the: other side of the great hole common to this bone and the os pubis. Processes. From, the upper thick part of the os ischium, a sharp- 'process, called by some spinous, stands out backwards^ from which chiefly the musculus coccygaeus and supe- rior gemellus, and part.of the levator ani, rise ; and the anterior or internal sacrosciatic ligament is fixed to it. — Between the upper part of this ligament and the bones it was formerly observed that the pyriform muscle, the posterior crural vessels, and the sciatic nerve, pass-out of the pelvis.—Immediately below thifll process, a sinuosity is formed for the tendon of the musculus obturator interims.—In. a recent subject, this- part of the bone, which serves'as a pully on which the etlarator muscle plays, is covered with a ligamentous * Coxrc, coxecdicis, pixisiOF THE SKELETON". ■cartilage, that, by two or three small ridges, points out the interstices of the fibres in the tendon of this muscle. —The outer surface of the bone at the root of this spinous process is made hollow by the piriformis or iliacus externals muscle. Below the sinuosity for the obturator muscle is the great knob or tuberosity, covered with cartilage or tendon (o). The upper part of the tuberosity gives rise to the inferior gemellus muscle. To a i idge at the in- side of this, the external or posterior sacrosciatic liga- ment is so fixed, that between it, the internal ligament, and the sinuosity of the os ischium, a passage is left for the internal obturator muscle. The upper thick smooth, part of the tuber, called by some its dorsum, has two oblique impressions on it. The inner one gives origin to the long head of the biceps flexor tibia * and seminer- vosus f muscles, and the sendmembranosus rises from the exterior one, which reaches higher and nearer the acetabulum than the other. The lower, thinner, more scabrous part of the knob which bends forwards, is also marked with two flat surfaces, whereof the internal is what we lean upon in sitting, and the external gives rise to the largest head of the triceps adductor femo- rist- Between the external margin of the tuberosity and the great hole of the os innominatum, there is fre- quently an obtuse ridge extended down from the ace- tabulum, which gives origin to the quadratus femoris. As the tuber advances forwards, it becomes smaller, and is rough, for the origin of the musculus tramver- salis j| and erector penis. The small leg of it, which mounts upwards to join the 0,9 pubis, is rough and prominent at its edge, where the two lower heads of the triceps or quadriceps adductor femoris \ take their rise. The upper and back part of the os ischium is broad Substance •and thick 5 but its lower and fore-part, is narrower and (a) Winslow, Exposit. anat. des os fraiis, i 96. * Biceps cruris Alb. E. •f Semitendinosus Alb. E. % Adductor magnus femoris Alb. E. || Trans versus pcrincei Alb. E. \ Adductor longus and A. brevis femoris Alb. JEsOE THE SKELETON. 25& i/onnexion State at Birth. Os Pubis. Processes. thinner. Its substance is of the structure common to broad bones. The os ilium and pubis of the same side are the only bones which are contiguous to the os ischium. The part of the os ischium which forms the acetabu- lum, the spinous process, the great tuber, and the re- curved leg, are all cartilaginous at birth. The tuber, with part of the leg or process above it, becomes an epiphyse before this bone is fully formed. The Os Pubis *, or share bone, is the least of the three parts of the os innominatum, and is placed at the upper fore-part of it. The thick largest part of this bone is employed in forming the acetabulum; from which becoming much smaller, it is stretched inwards T to its fellow of the other side, where again it grows larger, and sends a small branch downwards to join the end of the small le?; of the os ischium. The upper fore-part of each os pubis is tuberous and rough where the musculus rectus and pyramidalis are inserted. From this a ridge is extended along the upprr edge of the bone, in a continued line with" such another of the os ilium, which divides the abdomen and pelvis. The ligament of Fallopius is fixed to the internal end of this ridge, and the smooth hollow below it is made by the psoas and iliacus internus muscles passing with the an- terior crural vessels and nerves behind the ligament. Some way below the former ridge, another is extended from the tuberous part of the os pubis downwards and outwards towards the acetabulum ; between these two ridges the bone is hollow and smooth, for lodging the head of the peciineus muscle. Immediately below, where the lower ridge is to take the turn downwards, a winding niche is made, which is comprehended in the great foramen of a skeleton, but is formed into a hole by a -subtended ligament in the recent subject, for the- passage of the posterior crural nerve, an artery, and a vein. The internal end of the os pubis is rough and Bnequal, for the firmer adhesion of the thick ligamen- * ?i)B»f, pectinis, penis, pudibundujn, fenestratus;, $ Mesiad.OF THE SKELETON". tons cartilage tbat connects it to its fellow of the other side: The process which goes down from that to the os ischium is broad and rough before, where the gracilis and upper heads of the triceps, or rather quadriceps adductor femoris have their origin. The substance of the os pubis is the same a&of other Substance, broad bones. Only a part of the large end of this bone is ossified, State at and the whole leg is cartilaginous, in a child born at But li- the full time. ' Betwixt the os ischium and pubis a very large Thyroid irregular hole is left, which, from its resemblance to allol<i- door or shield, has been called thyroides. This hole is all, except the niche for the posterior crural nerve, filled up in a recent subject with a strong ligamentous mem- brane, that adheres very firmly to it3 circumference. From this membrane chiefly the two obturator muscles, external and internal, take their rise. The great de- sign of this hole, besides rendering the hone lighter, is to allow a strong enough origin to the obturator mus- cles, and sufficient space foi lodging their bellies, that there may be no.danger of disturbing the functions of the contained viscera of the pelvis by the actions of the internal, nor of the external being bruised by the thigh bone, especially by its lesser trochanter, in the motions of the thigh inwards : Both which inconveniences must have happened, had the ossa innominata been com- plete here, and of sufficient thickness and strength to serve as the fixed point of these muscles. The bowels sometimes make their way through the niche for the vessels, at the upper part of this thyroid hole, and this causes a hernia in this place (a). In the external * surface of the ossa innominata, Acclaim near the outside of the great hole, a large deep cavity turn. is formed by all the three bones conjunctly : For the os pubis constitutes about one fifth j the os ilium makes something less than two fifths, and the os ischium as much more than two fifths. The brims of this cavity (ri) Memoires de l'acad, de chirurgie, torn. 1. p. 709, * Lateral £.OF THE SKELETON. are very high, and are still much more enlarged by f|fc ligamentous cartilage, with which they are tipped in a | recent subject. From this form of the cavity it ha been called acetabulum ; and for a distinguUhipag character, the name of the hone that constitutes tbw largest share of it is added ; therefore acetabulum osstu ischii * is the name this cavity commonly hears.— Round the base of the superciliaytbe bone is rough anoJ unequal, where the capsular ligament of the articula-il tion is fixed. The brims at the upper and back parlrj of the acetabulum are much larger and higher .than anjn where else j which is very necessary to prevent th« head of the femur from slipping out of its cavity a.t this place, where the whole weight of the body beanr upon it, and consequently would otherwise be con stantly in clanger of thrusting it out. As these brims • are extended downwards and forwards, they becomes less } and at their internal lower part a breach is madri in them j from the one side of which to the other, ; ligament is placed in the recent subject; under wbiefe is left a large hole, which contains a fatty cellular substance and vessels. The reason of this appear ance has afforded matter of debate. To me it seem evidently contrived for allowing a larger motion ti the thigh inwards : For if the bony brims had beei here continued, the neck of the thigh "bone must hav. struck upon them when the thighs were brough across each other ; which, in a large strong motioi this way, would have endangered the netk of the oit hone, or brim of the other. Then the vessels wbicl are distributed to the joint may safely enter at thru sinuosity in the bottom of the breach j which be in* however larger than is necessary for that purposes allows the large mucilaginous gland of the joint to escape below the ligament, when the head of the thig bone is in hazard of pressing too much upon it in tbfi motions of the thigh outwards (o). Besides this dijt ference in the height of the brims, the acetabulum ii * Coxae, coxendicis. (a) Petit, Memoires dc 1'aced. des sciences, 172&OF THE SKELETON. 1 .>& otherwise unequal : For the lower internal part of it is depressed below the cartilaginous surface .of the upper part, .and is not covered with cartilage; into the upper . part of this particular depression, where it is deepest . and of a semilunar form, the ligament of the thigh- bone, commonly, though improperly, called the round one, is inserted.; while in its more superficial lower part the large mucilaginous gland of this joint is lodged. The largest share of this separate depression is formed in the os ischium. From what has been said of the condition of the three bones composing this acetabulum in new-born children, it must be evident, that a considerable part of this cavity is cartilaginous in them. The ossa innominate are joke'd at their back part Connexion^ to each side of the os sacrum by a sort of suture, with oi"lhe cssa a very thin intervening canilage, which serves as soim\°mi~ much glue to cement these bones together; and strong"" ligaments go from the circumference of this unequal surface, to connect them more firmly. The ossa inno- minate are connected together at their fore-part by the ligamentous cartilage interposed between the two ossa pubis. These bones can therefore have no motion in a natural state, except what is common to the trunk of the body, or to the os sacrum. But it has been dis- puted, whether or not they loosen so much from each other ana from the os sacrum, in child-birth, by the flow of mucus to 'the pelvis,'zm\ by the throws of the labour, as that the ossa pubis recede from each other, and thereby allow the passage between the bones to be enlarged. Several observations (a) shew that this, relaxation sometimes happens : But those who had frequently opportunities of dissecting the bodies of women w|,0 dled immediatp]y after b ■ . deUvered ,rf children, teach us to beware of regarding this as the common effect of child-birth j for they found such a (a) Bauhim_Theat. anat. lib. 1. cap. 49.-Spigcl. Anat. lib.OF THE SKELETON. relaxation iu very ftw of the bodies which they exa- mined (a).. Considering what great weight is supported in our erect posture* by the articulation of the ossa innominate i with the os sacrum, there is great reason to think that; if the conglutinated surfaces of these bones were once separated, (without which, the ossa pubis cannot; shuffle on each other,) the ligaments would be violently, stretched, if not torn ; whence many disorders would arise (&)• Uses. Each os iminminatuni affords a socket (the acetalu- lum) for the thigh bones to move in, and the trunk of the body rolls here so much on the heads of the thigh- bones, as to allow the most conspicuous motions of tbe trunk, which are commonly thought to be performed ' by the bones of the spine. This articulation is to be more fully described after the ossa femoris are exa- - mined. The pelvis then has a large opening above where it is continued with tbe abdomen, is strongly fenced by* bones on the sides, back, and fore-part, and appears- with a wide opening below, in the skeleton ; but, in; the recent subject, a considerable part of the opening, is filled by the sacrosciatic ligaments, pyriform, inter** nal obturator, levatores ani, gemini, and cocci/gwi muscles, which support and protect the contained parts better than bones could have done; so that space is left only at the lowest part of it, for the large excretories, the vesica urinaria, intcsliimm rectum, and in females, the itterus, to discharge them.-elves. Thorax. ■ The Thorax,* or chest, which is the only part of the trunk of the body which we have not yet described, reaches from below the neck to the belly ; and, by means of the bones that guard it, is formed into a large cavity-, the figure of which is somewhat conoidal; but its upper smaller end is not finished, heing left (a) Hildan. Epist. cent. obs. 4G.—Dionis Sixieme demons*. £es os.—Morgagn. Advers. 5. animad. 15. (b) Ludov, in JLpheni. German, dec. 1. ann. 5. obs. 85% * rectus, cassiun.OF THE SKELETON1. 161 open for the passage of -the wind-pipe, gullet, and large Wood-vessels ; and its lower part, or base, has no bones, and is shorter before than behind so that, to carry on our comparison, it appears like an oblique section of the conoid. Besides which, we ought also to remark, that the lower part of this cavity is narrow- er than some way above (a) ; and that the middle of its back-part is considerably diminished by the bones standing forwards into it The bones which form the thorax are the twelve lUbe. dorsal vertebrae behind, the ribs on the sides, and the sternum before. The vertebrae have already been described as part of the spine ; and therefore are now to be passed. The Ribs, or costce *, (as if they were custodes, or guards, to those principal organs of the animal ma- chine, the heart and lungs,) are the long crooked bones placed at the sides of the chest, in an oblique direction downwards in respect of the back-bone. Their num- ber is generally twelve on each side ; though fre- quently eleven or thirteen have been found (b) Sometimes the ribs are found preternaturally conjoined or divided (c). The ribs are all concave internally ; where they are also made smooth by the action of the contained parts, which, on this account, are in no danger of be- ing hurt by them ; and they are convex externally, that they might resist that part of the pressure of the atmosphere, which is not-balanced by the air within the lungs, during inspiration. The ends of the ribs next the vertebrue are rounder than they are after these bones have advanced forwards, when they become flatter and broader, ami have an upper and lower edge, each of which is made rou£>h by the action of the in- tercostal muscles, inserted into them, These muscles, (a} Albin. de ossib. $ 169. * riX6i/g««, Tfi^ift^va,, tfTK&cii. (i) Riolan. Comment, de ossibus, cap. 19.—Marclietti. cap.&v Cowper Explicat. tab 9.1 and .94.—Morgagn. Advtis. aaat. (c) Sue Trad, d'osteolog. p. 141.162 OF THE SKELETON, being all of nearly equal force, and equally stretched in the interstices of the ribs, prevent the broken ends ol these bones in a fracture from being removed far. out of their natural place, to interrupt the motion oU the vital organs. The upper edge of the ribs is mod obtuse and rounder than the lower, which is depressed^ on its internal side by a longfossa, for lodging the in^ tercostal vessels and nerves; on each side of wbichi there is a ridge, to which the intercostal muscles arei fixed. The Jbs'sa is not observable however at either end of the ribs ; for at the posterior or root, the ves-* sels have not yet reached the ribs ; and, at the fore-- end, they are split away into branches, to serve the* parts between the ribs ; which plainly teaches sur* geons one reason of the greater safety of performing; the operation of the empyema towards the sides of the i thorax, than eitht< near the back or the breast; At the posterior end * of each rib, a little head i; formed, which is divided by a middle ridge into tweo plainer hollow surfaces; the lowest of which is thee broadest and deepest in most of them. The two plains; are joined to the bodies of two different verteb>ae^ and the ridge forces itself into the intervening carti-ii lage. A little way from this head, we find, on th« external surface, a small cavity, where mucilaginous glands are lodged ; and round the head, the bone apo- pears spongy, where the capsular ligament of the arti»it dilation is fixed. Immediately beyond this, a flatted tubercle rises, with a small cavity at, and roughness about its root, for the articulation of the rib with thii transverse process of the lowest of the two vertebrae' with the bodies of which the head of the rib is joinetM Advancing further on this external surface, we oM* serve in most of the ribs another smaller tubercle, intf > which ligaments which connect the ribs to each others and to the transverse processes of the vertebrae and portions of the loftgissimus dorsi, are inserted. Be- yond this the vibs are made flat by the sacro-hrmbali muscle, which is inserted into the part of this flat* * K*xnv, rcmulus. Dorsal end. E.OF THE SKELETON". (b) Havers. Osteolog. nov. disc. 5. p. 281?. 16* surface farthest from the spine, where each rib makes1 a considerable curve, called by some its angle. Then the rib begins to turn broad, and continues so to its an- terior end,* which is- hollow and spongy, for the re- ception of, and firm coalition with the cartilage that runs thence to be inserted into the sternum, or to be joined with some other cartilage. In adults, generally the cavity at this end of the ribs is smooth and polish- ed on its surface j by which the articulation of the cartilage with it has the appearance of being designed for motion ; but it has none. The substance of the ribs is spongy, cellular, and Substance, covered only with a very thin external lamellatcd sur- face, which increases in thickness and strength as it approaches the vertebrae. To the fore-end of each rib a long broad and strong a i ticulat- cartilage is fixed, and reaches thence, to the sternum, oriug Caiti- is joined to the cartilage of the next rib. This course, ,a&es> however, is not in a straight line with the rib for ge- nerally the cartilages make a considerable curve, the concave part of which is upwards therefore, at their insertion into the sternum, they make an obtuse angle above, and an acute one below. These cartilages aie- of such a length as never to allow the ribs to ccme to « right angle with the spine but they keep them si- tuated so obliquely, as to make an angle very consi- derably obtuse above, till a force exceeding the elasticity of the cartilages is applied. These cartilages, as all others, are firmer and harder internally, than they are on their external surface \ and sometimes, in old peo- ple, all their middle substance becomes bony, while a thin cartilaginous lamella appears externally, (ft-) The ossification, however, begins frequently at the exter- nal .surface. The greatest alternate motions of the cartilages being made at their great curvature, that part remains frequently cartilaginous, after all the rebt . is ossified (bj. * ru«T», palmnla. Sternal end. E. (fl) Vcsal. lib. 2. cap. 19.OF THE SKELETON. (ft) Wiuslow Memoircs dc l'acad. des sciences, 1720. 1G4 Articuk- The ribs then are articulated at each end, of which! turn. the one behind is doubly joined to the vertebrae ; foi I the head is received into the cavities of two bodies ol the vertebrae, and the larger tubercle is received intc j the depression in tiie transverse process of the loweei vertebra.—When one examines the double articular tion, he must immediately see, that no other motionti can here be allowed than upwards and downwards; J since the transverse process hinders the rib from being thrust back, j the resistance on the other side of the sternum prevents the ribs coming forward j and eacfcl of the two joints, with the other parts attached, oppose* its turning round. But then it is likewise as evident! that even the motion upwards and downwards can bex but small in any one rib at the articulation itself. Bui: as the ribs advance forwards, the distance from theiiii centre of motion increasing, the motion must b« larger j and it would be very conspicuous at their am terior ends, were they not resisted there by the carti-i lages, which yield 90 little, that the principal motiow is performed by the middle part of the ribs, whictt turns outwards and upwards, and occasions the twisi-i remarkable in the long ribs at the place near tbehi fore-end where they are most resisted («). Varieties Hitherto t have laid down the structure and con* nexion which most of the ribs enjoy, as belonging tc all of them ; but must now' consider the specialties wherein any of them differ from the general desenpf tion given, or from each other. In viewing the ribs from above downwards, then* figure is still straighter-, the uppermost being the mosW crooked of any. Their obliquity in respect of the spine increases as they descend y so that though theiw distance from.each other is very little different at thea back part, yet at their fore ends the distances betweers the lower ones must increase... In consequence, too. of this increased obliquity of the lower ribs, each ol- their cartilages makes a greater curve in its progress- from the rib towards the sternum ; and the tubercles -OF THE SKELETON. 165 that arc articulated to the transverse processes of the vertebrae, have their smooth suifaces gradually facing- more upwards. The ribs becoming thus more ob- lique, while the sternum advances forwards in its de- scent, makes the distance between the sternum and the anterior end of the lower ribs greater than between the sternum and the ribs above ; consequently the car- tilages of those ribs that are joined to the breast-bone are longer in the lower than in the higher ones. These cartilages are placed nearer to each other as the ribs descend, which occasions the curvature of the carti- lages to be greater, The length of the ribs increases from the first and uppermost rib, as far down as the seventh ; and from that to the 12th, as gradually diminishes. The supe- rior of the two plain, or rather hollow surfaces, by which the ribs are articulated to the bodies of the ver- tebrae, gradually increases from the first to the fourth rib, and is diminished after that in each lower rib.— flie distance of their angles from the heads always in- creases as they descend to the ninth, because of the greater breadth of the sacrohtmbalis muscles (a). The ribs are commonly divided into true mnd false, t The true* costae are the seven upper ones of each True Ribs, side, whose cartilages are all gradually longer as the ribs descend, and are joined to the breast-bone ; so [bat being pressed constantly between two bones, :bey are flatted at both ends, and are thicker, harder, md more liable to ossify, than the other cartilages :hat are not subject to so much pressure. These ribs include the heart and lungs; and therefore are the proper or true custodes of life. The five inferior ribs of each side are the false or^ahe nibs Bastard,* whose cartilages do not reach to the ster- wm; and therefore, wanting the resistance at their 'ore-part, they are there pointed; and, on this ac- (a) Winslow, Exposition anatomique des os sees, $ 645. * Tr/jimi, Germ hi) ib le«itimae. * MxxBaxai, £«ySg9$:(«?) kohSxi, arms, fiett, adulterinse, spuriue, illegitimec.OF THE SKELETON. part. 3. cap. 2. tount, having less pressure, their substance is softer —The cartilages of these false ribs are shorter as the libs descend. To all these five ribs the circular edg< of the diaphragm is connected ; and its fibres, instcain of being stretched immediately transversely, and «t>i running perpendicular to the ribs, are pressed so as tu be often, especially in expiration, parallel to the plant* in which the ribs lie: Nay, one may judge by thi.i attachments which these fibres have so frequently tfli the sides of the thorax, a considerable way abovn where their extremities are inserted Into the ribs, aniu by the situation of the viscera, always to be observe! in a dead subject laid supine, that there is constantl; a large concavity formed on each side by the dia phragm within these bastard ribs, in which the sto roach, liver, spleen, &.c. are contained ; which, beiDj i reckoned only among the viscera ?iatt(ralia,.h&ve occa* eioned the name of bastard cuslodes to these bones, Hence in simple fractures of the false ribs, withou fever, the stomach ought to he kept moderately fillet < with food, lest the pendulous ribs falling inwards- should thereby increase the pain, cough, &c. (a).— Hence likewise we may learn how to judge better oo the seat of several diseases, and to do the operation the empyema, and some others, with more safety thai; we can do, if we follow the' eommon directions. The eight upper ribs, were formerly (b) classed intiti pairs, with particular names to each two, to wit, tin crooked, the solid, the pectoral, the twisted: But thesd names are of so little use, that they are now general 1; neglected. .First Rib. The first rib of each side is so situated, that the fla. sides are above and below, while one edge is placec< inwards, and the other outwards, or nearly so there* fore sufficient space is left above it for the subclavian vessels and muscle; and the broad concave surface 1)1 opposed to the lungs: But then, in consequence o: (a") Hippocrat. de articulo, $ 51—Pare, lib. 15. cap 11. (b) Laurent. Hist. anat. lib. 2. cap. 29. Taaw, de ossibossOT THE SKELETON. 167 this situation, the channel for the intercostal vessels is not to be found, and the edges are differently formed from all the others except the second ; the lower one being rounded, and the other sharp. The head of this rib is not divided into two plain surfaces by a middle ridge, because it is articulated only with the first ver- tebra of the thcrax. Its cartilage is ossified in adults, and is united to the sternum at right angles. Fre- quently this first rib has a ridge rising near the middle of its posterior edge, where one of the heads of the scalenus muscle rises. Farther forward it is flatted or sometimes depressed by the clavicle. The fifth, sixth, and seventh, or rather the sixth, 5ih—lOtk. seventh, eighth, and sometimes the fifth, sixth seventh, eighth, ninth ribs, have their cartilages at least contiguous : and frequently they are joined to each other by cross cartilages ; and most commonly the cartilages of the eighth, ninth, tenth, are connect- ed to the former and to each other by firm ligaments. lhe eleventh, and sometimes the tenth rib, hasnoHth. tubercle for its articulation with the transverse process of the vertebra, to which it is only loosely fixed by hgaments._The>s« in its lower edge is not so deep is in the upper ribs, because the vessels run more to- wards the interstice between the ribs—Its fore-end is smaller than its body, and its short small cartilage is 3ut loosely connected to the-cartilage of the rib above. Ine twelfth rib is the shortest and straightest.—Its Wtk lead is articulated only with the last vertebra, of the horax; tnerefore ,s not divided into two surfaces — S ,nb 18 n(? J°,netl t0 t,le transverse process of the Wtebra, and therefore has no tubercle, being often rolled necessarily inwards by the diaphragm, which in articulation with the transverse process "would not We allowed.-rhe/c^ is not found at Jts und kclge, because the vessels run below it. The fore lilva v 1? Smallrtha» ^s middle, and has nly a very small-pointed cartilage fixed to it. To to whole mternal side the diaphragm is connected. A he motions and uses of the ribs shall be more108 T)F THE SKELETON. particularly treated of, after t he description of tlit I sLvrintm. State at The heads and tubercles of the rihs of a new-bom Birth. child have cartilages on them part of which bccom< j afterwards thin ' epiphyses. The bodies of the ribt encroach gradually after birth upon the cartilages so that th* latter are proportionally shorter, when compared to the ribs, in adults, than in children. Ilere I cannot help remarking the wise providence of our Creator, in preserving us from perishing an soon as we come into the world. The ends of th™ bones of the limbs remain in a cartilaginous statu after birth, and are many years before they are enn tirely united to the main body of their several bones whereas the condyles of the occipital bone, and o( thii lower jaw, are true original processes, and ossified bee fore birth, and the heads and tubercles of the ribs ar.n nearly in the same condition ; and therefore the weigbi of the large head is firmly supported j the actions oo sucking, swallowing, respiration, &c. which are indis- pensably necessary for us as soon asl we come into tht' world, are performed without danger of separating th parts of the bones that are most pressed on in.tbes- motions : Whereas, had these processes of the heaci jaw, and ribs, been epiphyses at birth, children mus have been exposed to danger of dying by such a set paration-, the immediate consequences of which woul be the compression of ihe beginning of the spinal man vow, or want of food, or a stop put to respiration. Sternum. The Sternum"*, or breast-bom, is the broad flat bone, or pile of bones, at the fore-part of the thora.\ The number of bones which this should be divide I into, has occasioned debates among anatomists, wbki have considered it in subjects of different ages. Ill adults of a middle age, it is composed of three bone. | which easily separate after the cartilages connecting them are destroyed. Frequently the two lower boo« are found intimately united ; and very often in ol \ Trr'Su?, os pectoris, ensiforroe, scutum cordis.OF THE SKELETON. 169 people, the sternum is a continued bony substance from one end to the other j though we still observe two, sometimes three transverse lines on its surface ; which are marks of the former divisions. When we consider the sternum as one bone, we find it broadest and thickest above, atid becoming smaller as it descends. The internal * surface of this bone is somewhat hollowed for enlarging the thorax; but the convexity on the external! surface is not so conspicuous, because the sides are pressed outwards by the true nbs ; the round heads of whose cartilages are received into seven smooth pits, formed in each side of the ster- num and| are kept firm there b st Iigament ivhich on the external surface have a particular radiated .exture {a).—Frequently the cartilaginous fibres thrust uemselves into the bony substance of the sternum, and ire joined by a sort of suture. The pits at the upper mtofthe sternum are at the greatest distance one rom another, and as they descend, are nearer ; so that He two lowest are contiguous. The substance of the breast-hone is cellular, with very thm external plate, especially on its internal urface, where we may frequently observe a cara- mons crust spread over it (6). On both surfaces owever, a strong ligamentous membrane is closely raced ; and the cells of this bone are so small, that I nsidei-abe quantity of osseous fibres must be em-, oyed m the composition of it: Whence, with the efence winch the muscles give it, and the moveable IS ftl r-fr°T t Cartn^ * ^ sufficiently s ! red from being broken ; for it is strong by its /uan- * Crntra. 4. t»„ .• j. , («'Ruysc1,Ca1alo,.rarfrr,e9PhCral- * (*; Jac. Sylv. in Galen de^ossibus can ] CO 5cnac. in M«noire, dc 1'acad. des^ence, 1721170 OF THE SKELETON. count, it is composed in adults, are each to be ex- amined. *Jppe* The first, all agree, is somewhat of the figure of <a heart, as it is commonly painted •> only it does not terminate in a sharp point. This is the uppermost thickest part of the sternum. The upper middle-part of this first bone, where it ia thickest, is hollowed, to make place for the trachea arteria ; though this cavity* is formed principally by the bone being raised on each side of it, partly by tlit clavicles thrusting it inwards, and partly by-the sttmo- mastoidei muscles pulling it upwards. On the ont- side of each tubercle, there is an oblong cavity, that in viewing-it transversely from before backwards, ap- pears a little convex : Into these glence the ends of tin* clavicles are received! Immediately below these, thai , sides of this bone begin to turn thinner; and in eacIT a superficial cavity or a rough surface is to be seen where the first ribs are received or joined to the start num. In the side of the under end of this first bonet the half of the pit for the second rib on each side ii formed. The upper part of the surface behind i i covered with a strong ligament, which secures the cla.> vicles ; and is afterwards to be-more particularly take, notice of. _,.,The,second or middle division of this bone, is muc Part lono-er, narrower, and thinner than the first j but, exs cepting that it is a little narrower above than beloTjj it is nearly equal all over in its dimensions of breadt : or thickness. In the sides of it are complete pits fi the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth ribs, and an halt c the pits for the second and seventh ; the lines, whic •xre marks of the former division of this bone, bein extended from the middle of the pits of one side to th middle of the corresponding pits of the other side- Near its middle an unossified part of the bone is somi times found, which, freed of the ligamentous membra* or cartilage that fills it, is described as a hole j and I this place", for the most part, we may observe a trans * 2f *r>, j"S"lum, furcula superiorOF THE SKELETON. 1/1 Terse line, which has made authors divide this bone into two.—When the cartilage between this and the first bone is not ossified, a manifest motion of this upon the first may be observed in respiration or in raising the sternum, by pulling the ribs upwards or distending the lungs with air in a recent subject. The third bone is much less than the other two, and Ensiform has only one half of the pit for the seventh rib formed Cartilage. in it ; wherefore it might be reckoned only an ap- pendix of the sternum. In young subjects it is always cartilaginous, and is better known by the name of cartilago xiphoides or enstformis,* than any other \ though the ancients often called the whole sternum ensifbrme, comparing the two first bones to the handle and this appendix to the blade of a sword.—This third bone is seldom of the same figure, magnitude, or situation in any two subjects 5 for sometimes it is a, plain triangular bone, with one of the angles below, and perpendicular to the middle of the upper side, by which it is connected to the second bone.—In other people the point is turned to one side, or obliquely forwards or backwards. Frequently it is all nearly of an equal breadth, and in several subjects it is bifur- cated ; whence some writers give it the name of Jur- ctlli or furcula inferior ; or else it is unossified, in the middle. In the greatest number of adults it is ossified and tipped with a cartilage ; in some, one half of it is cartilaginous, and in others it is all in a cartilaginous state.—Generally several oblique ligaments fixed at one end to the cartilages of the ribs, and by the other to the outer surface of the xiphoid bone, connect it firmly to those cartilages (o). So many different ways this small bone may be formed, without any inconvenience : But then some or these positions may be so directed, as to bring on a great tram of ill consequences ; particularly^when * Clypealis, gladialh, mucronata, malum, granatum, sta- turn stomach,, ep.glotahs cultvalis, medium furcul* inferioris, scmitormis, ensiculata. («) YYcitbrecht, Syndesmolog. p 121.172 OF THE SKELETON. - the lower end is ossified, and is too much turned out- wards or inwards (a), or when the conjunction of this appendix with the second bone is too weak {b). Connexion. The sternum is joined by cartilages to the seven < upper ribs, unless when the first coalesces with it in am intimate union of substance \ and its unequal cavity on each side of its upper end iy lilted for the ends of\ the clavicles. Slate at The sternum most frequently has four round small Birth. hones, surrounded with cartilage, in children bom at^ the full time j the uppermost of these, which is the. first hone, being the largest. Two or three other very small bony points, are likewise to be seen in several! children. The number of bones increases for some years, and then diminishes, but uncertainly, till they are at last united into those above described of am adult. Uses. The uses of this bone are, to afford origin and in- sertion to several muscles j to sustain the mediastinum, to defend the vital organs, the heart and lungs, at the fore-part j and, lastly, by serving as a moveable ful- crum of the ribs, to assist considerably in respiration: Which action, so far as it depends on the motion of the hones*, we-are-now at liberty to explain. Motions of W hen the ribs that are connected by their car- ihe Ribs tilages to the sternum, or to the cartilages of the true and Ster. are acte(j n k tjje intercostal muscles, they ***'*" n i "i* ■ * L*I_ must all be pulled from the oblique position wnicui their cartilages kept them in, nearer to right anglesI with the vertebrae and sternum, because the first or uppermost rib is by much the most fixed of any ; and the cartilages making a great resistance to raising the anterior ends of the ribs, their large arched middle parts turn outwards as well as upwards. The sterz rMm, pressed strongly on both sides by the cartilages I (a) Rolfinc. Divert. Anat. lib. 2. cap. 41.—Pnaw, de ossib. j»tf. 1. cap. 3. and part. 3. cap. 3— Codronchi de prolapsu car* I tiladn mucronat (b) Paavv ibid.—Bonich. act. Hafn. t01. 5. ob. ,9—Bonct. Semdch.et. anat. torn. 2. lib. 3. $ 5. Append, ad obs. 8. ct ibid. § 7. obg. 19. rximOf THE SKELETON. 173 of the ribs, is pushed forwards, and that at its several parts, in proportion to the length and motions of its supporters, the ribs ; that is, most at its lower end. The sternum and the cartilages, thus raised forwards, must draw the diaphragm connected to them ; conse- quently so far stretch it, and bring it nearer to a plane. The power that raises this bone and the cartilages, fixes them sufficiently to make them resist the action of the diaphragm, whose fibres contract at the same time, and thrust the viscera of the ablomen down- wards. The arched part of the ribs being thus moved outwards, their anterior ends and the sternum being advanced forwards, and the diaphragm being brought nearer to a plain surface, instead of being greatly con- vex on each side within each cavity of the thorax, it is evident how considerably the cavity, of which the nine or ten upper ribs are the sides, must be widened, and made deeper and longer. While this is doing in the upper ribs, the lower ones, whose cartilages are not joined to the sternum or to other cartilages, move very differently, though they conspire to the same in-, tention, the enlargement of the thorax : For having no fixed point to which their anterior ends are fastened^ and the diaphragm being inserted into them at the place where it runs pretty straight upwards from its origin at the vertebrae, these ribs are drawn down- wards by this strong muscle, and by the muscles of the abdomen, which, at this time, are resisting the stretching force of the bowels ; while the intercostal muscles are pulling them in the contrary direction, to wit, upwards : The effect therefore of either of these powers, which are antagonists to each other, is very little, as to moving the ribs either up or down ; but the muscles of the abdomen, pushed at this time out- wards by the viscera, carry these ribs along with them. Ihus the thorax is not only not allowed to be shortened, but is really widened at its lower part, to assist in making sufficient space for the due distension or the lungs. As soon as the action of these several muscles ceases, the clastic cartilages extending themselves to.174. OF THE SKELETON. their natural situation, depress the upper ribs, and the' Sternum subsides j—the diaphragm is thrust up by the viscera abdominalia, and the oblique and transverse muscles of the belly serve to draw the inferior ribs in- wards at the same time. By thesq causes, the cavity ef the breast is diminished in all its dimensions. Though the motions above described of the ribs and sternum, especially of the latter bone, are so small in the mild respiration of a healthy person, that we c"u scarcely observe them ; yet they are manifest whenever we designedly increase our respiration, or are obliged to do it after exercise, and in several di*. eases.* OF THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. Division. Authors are much divided in their opinions about the number of bones which each superior extremity i should be said to consist of, some describing the ckA vide and scapula as part of it, others classing these- two bones with those of the thorax : But since most- quadrupeds have no clavicles, and the human thoraA can perform its functions right when the scapula iii taken away (a), whereas it is impossible for us to hav.ef the right use of our arms without these bones j I must- - think that they belong to the superior extremities i and therefore shall divide each of them into the shoulder, arm, fore-arm, and hand. Shoulder. »pne Shoulder consists of the calvicle and scapula.' Clavicle. Clavicula, or collar-bone, % is the long crooked bone, in figure like an Italic /, placed almost horizon- tally between the upper lateral part of the sternum and what is commonly called the top of the shoulder, * On this subject sec Barcl. Muscul. Mot. p. 514. E- t yo* Enata- adri4ttt» exp,anat* racm ai tus. Atlantftl extremity! Bavcl.- E. (a) Philosoph. transact, numb. 44J. JO. . | Os jugdare, jugulum,. Q^jOft, l'S«K *lav.s, humen> qiiibusiUnu,175 OF THE SKELETON. I/filch, as a clavis or beam, it bears off from the trunk f f the body. The clavicle, as well as other long round bones, is ttrger at its two ends, than in the middle. The end ext to the sternum * is triangular : The angle be- ind is considerably produced, to form a sharp ridge, > which the transverse ligament extended from one lavicle to the other is fixed (o). The side opposite •p this is somewhat rounded. The middle of this pro- iberant end is as irregularly hollowed, as the cavity 1 the sternum for receiving it is raised ; but in a re- ent subject, the irregular concavities of both are sup- plied by a moveable cartilage, which is not only uuch more closely connected every where by liga- tents to the circumference of the articulation, than mose of the lower jaw are , but it grows to the two pnes at both its internal f and external % end ; its sub- jiancc at the internal end being soft, but very strong, pid resembling the intervertebral cartilages (h). From this internal end, the clavicle, for about two . fths of its length, is bended obliquely forwards and own wards. On the upper and fore-part of this cur- ature a small ridge is seen, with a plain rough sur- ice before it whence the musciilus sterno-hyoideuz nd surno-mastoideus have in part their origin. Near ie lower angle a small plain surface is often to be :marked, where the first rib and this bone are con- guous (r), and are connected by a firm ligament (d). 'rom this a rough plain surface is extended out- ards, where the pectoral muscle has part of its origin, iiehind, the bone is made flat and rough by the in- jrtion of the larger share of the subclavian muscle, ifter the clavicle begins to be bended backwards, it. ' * Tltt(><]t<Tt{)a.yif. (a) Riolati Encheirid. Anat. lib. 6. cap. 13.—Whislow, ixpos. Anat. des os fVais, § 248.—Weitbrecht. Act. Petropolit. »m. iv. p. 255. et Syndesniolog, sect. 2 I. § 5. ! f Mesial. E. f Lateral. E. (ft) Weitbrecht, Syudcsmolog. sect. 2. I. § 6. (c) Dionis. Sixieme demonst. des os. (d) Weitbrecht. Syndesmolog. sect. 2. I. $ 7;OF THE SKELETON. 176 « round, but soon after becomes broad and thin • which shape it retains to its external end. Alon* the external* concavity, a rough sinuosity runs, fn* which some part of the deltoid muscle takes its rise ■ --Opposite to this, on the convex edge, a scabrous- xidgc gives insertion to a share of the cucullaris mus, cle. 1 he upper surface of the clavicle here is flat • ■ but the lower is hollow, for lodging the beginning 0£ | the musculus subclavius ; and towards its back-part a I tubercle rises, to which, and a roughness near it, the • strong short thick ligament connecting this bone to the coracoid process of the scapula is fixed. The external end f of this bone is horizontally oh^ long, smooth, sloping at the posterior side, and tipped-, in a recent subject with a cartilage, for its articulation . With the acromion scapulce. Round this the bone is sPongy» f°r the firmer connection of the ligaments. Foramina. The medullary arteries, having their direction ob- liquely outwards, enter the clavicles by one or more- small passages in the middle of their back-part. Substance. The substance of this .bone is the same as of the other round long bones» Connexion. The triangular unequal interior end of each clcA vide, has the cartilage above described interposed be-,-* twixt it and the irregulaivcavity of the sternum. The ligaments, which surround this articulation to secure . it, are so short and strong, that little motion can be.] allowed any way ; and the strong ligament that isi stretched across the upper furcula of the sternum, from the posterior prominent angle of the one clavicle, to the same place of the other clavicle, serves to keep each of these bones more firmly in their place. By the assistance, however, of the moveable intervening cartilage, the clavicle can, at this joint, be raised or depressed, and moved backwards and forwards sol much, as that the external end, which is at a great distance from that axis, enjoys very conspicuous mo- tions. The articulation of the exterior end of the * Sterno-kteral. E.OF THE SKELETON. 177 clavicle shall be considered after the description of the scapula. The clavicles of infants are not deficient in any of State at. their parts ; nor have they any epiphyses at their ex-•Birth* tremities joined afterwards to their bodies, as most other such long bones have, -which preserves them from being bended too much, and from the danger of . any unossified parts being separated by the force which pulls the arm forwards. The uses of the clavicles are, to keep the scapulae, Uses, and consequently all the superior extremities, from tailing in and forwards upon the thorax; by which, as in most quadrupeds, the motions of the arms would- be much confined, and- the breast made too narrow. The clavicles likewise afford origin to.several muscles, and a defence to large vessels. From the situation, figure, and use of the clavicles, it is evident, that they are much exposed to fractures y J:hat their broken parts must generally go past each )ther; and that they are with difficulty kept in their dace afterwards. p Scapula, or shoulder-blade *, is the triangular bone Scapula. liituated on the out-side of the ribs, with its longest bide called its base, towards the spinal processes of the Vertebrae, and with the angle at the upper part of this lide about three inches, and the lower angle at a fcreater distance from these processes. The back-part f If the scapula has nothing but the thin ends of the ser- Yatus anticus major and subscapulars muscles between It and the ribs : But as this bone advances forwards, Its distance from the ribs increases. The upper or Ihortest side, called the superior costa of the scapula, p nearly horizontal, and parallel to the second rib. The lower side, which is named the inferior costa, is Ixtended obliquely from the third to the eighth rib. Hie situation of this bone, here described, is when, " * uftfrXarti, wnZrw, latitudo humeri, scoptulum vel sutulura pertum, spatula, a! humerus, clypcus, scutum thoraeii. f Viz. of the sternal or central surface. E. I 2OF THE SKELETON. ITS people are sitting or standing in a state of inactivity! and allowing the members to remain in the most na- tural easy posture. The inferior angle of the scapula is very acute j the upper one is near to a right angle j and what is called the anterior, does not deserve the name, for the two sides do not meet to form an angle. The body of this bone is concave towards the ribs, and convex behind, where it has the name of dorsum *r Three processes are generally reckoned- to proceed from the scapula. The first is the large spine that- rises from its convex surface behind, and divides it unequally. The second process stands out from the fore-part of the upper side ; and, from its imaginai y resemblance to a crow's beak, is named coracoides The third process is the whole thick bulbous fore-part of the bone. After thus naming the several constituent parts of - the scapula, the particular description will be more easily understood. Base. The base, which is tipped with cartilage in a young subject, is not all straight : For above the spine, it runs obliquely forwards to the superior angle ; that: here it might not be too protuberant backwards, and so bruise the muscles and teguments : Into the ob- lique space the musculus patientiae % is inserted. At the root of the spine, on the back-part of the base, a triangular plain surface is formed, by the pressure of the lower fibres of the trapezius. Below this the edge of the scapula is scabrous and rough, for the insertion of the scrratus major anticus and rhomboid muscles. Inferior ^he back-part of the inferior angle is made smooth Cotta. ^ the tdiis'simus dorsi passing over it. This muscle also alters the direction of the inferior costa some way forwards from this angle : and so far it is flatted be- Jiind by the origin of the teres major. As the inferior eosta advances forwards, it is of considerable thickness, is sliohtly hollowed and made smooth behind by the I Anchoioidcs, sigmoides, digitalis, ancistroides.. \ Levator scapula?, Alb. E.OF THE SKELETON. teres minor, while it has a fossa formed into it below by part of the subscapularis ; and between the two a ridge with a small depression appears, where the longus extensor cubiti * has its origin. The superior casta is very thin j and near its fore- Superior part there is a similunar niche, from one end of which Costa> to the other a ligament is stretched j and sometimes the bone is continued, to form one, or sometimes two holes for the passage of the scapular blood-vessels and nerves. Immediately behind this semilunar cavity the coraco-hyoid muscle has its rise. From the niche to the termination of the fossa for the teres minor, the scapula is narrower than any where else, and supports the third process. This part has the name of cervix. The whole dorsum of the scapula is always said to Dorsum. be convex j but, by reason of the raised edges that surround it, it is divided into two cavities by the spine, which is stretched from behind forwards, much nearer to the superior than to the inferior casta. The cavity above the spine is really concave where the supra-spinatus muscle is lodged ; while the surface of this bone below the spine, on which the infra-spinal us muscle is placed, is convex, except a fossa that rsns at the side of the inferior costa. - The internal or anterior f surface of this bone is Internal hollow, except in the part above the spiue, which is Surface* convex. The subscapularis muscle is extended over this surface, where it forms several ridges and inter- mediate depressions, commonly mistaken for prints of the ribs ; they point out the interstices of the bundles nf fibres of which the subscapularis muscle is com- posed (o). The spine % rises small at the base of the scapula, Spins, and becomes higher and broader as it advances for- wards. On the sides it is unequally hollowed and crooked, by the actions of the adjacent muscles. Its * Long head of the Triceps brachii, Alb. E. \ Sternal or central. E. (a) Window, in Memoires de Pacad. des sciences, 1722, I -*Xi>> vpwt.nrw, eniinentia sctipularureaOF THE SKELETON. 180 ridge* is divided into two rough flat surfaces: I^fc- the upper one, the trapezius muscle is inserted ; and the lower one has part of* the deltoid fixed to it. The end of the spine, called acromion t, or top of the shoul- der is broad and flat, and is sometimes joined to the spine only by a cartilage (a). The anterior edge of the acromion is flat, smooth, and covered with a car- tilage, for its articulation with the external end of the clavicle ; and it is hollowed below, to allow a passage to the infra and supra spinati muscles, and free mo- tion to the os humeri. Coracoid The coracoid J process is crooked, with its point process. inclining forwards j so that a hollow is left at the lower side of its root, for the passage of the infra-scapjila- ris muscle. The end of this process is marked with three plain surfaces. Into the internal, the sarcitis minor anticus is inserted : FrOm the external, one head of the biceps flexor cubiti rises and from the . lower one, the coracobrachial has its origin. At the upper part of the root of this process, immediately be- fore the semilunar cavity, a smooth tubercle appears," where a ligament from the clavicle is fixed. From all the external side of this coracoid apophyse, a broad ligament goes out, which becomes narrower where it is fixed to the acromion. The sharp pain, violent in- flammation, and tedious cure of contusions in this part,, are probably owing to these tendons and ligaments being hurt. Third pro- From the cervix scapulae the third process is pro- oess. dticed. The fore-part of this is formed into a glenoid cavity ||, which is of the shape of the longitudinal sec- • tion of an egg, being broad below, and narrow above. . "Between the brims of this hollow and the fore-part of the root of the spine, a large sinuosity is left for the transmission of the supra and infra-spinati muscles^- * Pterigium, crista. | 'E<r*/«f iyxugtiihtit, xi£&*citor>s, xaraxXwr, acromii os, stim- ulus armus, rostrum procinum. processus digitalis, (a) Sue Trad d'osteol p. 16"0. i 'AyxvpiiSiis, fiyfisiiin;, rostriformis.IFF OF THE SKELETON. (a) Jac. Syh. Isagog. anat. lib. 1. cap. 2. Baud on the upper-part of these brims we may remark' a smooth surface, where the second head of the biceps miexoi- cubiti has its origin. The root of the suptrcilict Mis rough all round, for the firmer adhesion of the cap- sular ligament of the articulation, and of the cartilage Dwhich is placed on these brims, where it is thick, but Becomes very thin as it is continued towards the middle- |)f the cavity, which it lines all over. The medullary vessels enter the scapula near the pase of the spine. The substance of the scapula, as in all other broad Substance,, tat bones, is cellular, but of an unequal thickness j or the neck and third process are thick.and strong. The inferior casta, spine, and coracoid process, are of i middle thickness ; and the body is so pressed by the nuscles, as to become thin and diaphanous. The scapula and clavicle are joined by plain sur-•Connexion, aces, tipped with cartilage * ; by which neither bone s allowed any considerable motion, being tightly tied own by the common capsular ligament, and by a ery strong one which proceeds from the coracoid pro- ess ; but divides into two before it is fixed into the lavale, with such a direction, as either can allow this ione to have a small rotation, in which its posterior dge turns more backwards, while the anterior one ises farther forwards j or it can yield to the fore-part if the scapula moving downwards, while the back-part f it is drawn upwards ; in both which cases, the cb- ong smooth articulated surfaces of the clavicle and capula are not in the same plane, but stand a little ransversely, or across each other, and thereby pre- erve this joint from luxations, to which it would be ubject, if either of the bones was to move on the other erpendicularly up and down, without any rotation, lometimes a moveable ligamentous cartilage is found r\ this joint; otherwhiles such a cartilage is interposed nly at the anterior half of it j and in some old sub- ects I have found a sesamoid bone here (a). The * Acromion, xctrm»Xu$, clausurae.OF THE SKELETON. 182 scapula is connected to the head, os hyoides, vertebrae, J ribs, and aim-hone, by muscles, that have one end fastened to these bones, and the other to the scapula,, which can move it upwards, downwards, backwards, J or forwards ; by the quick succession of these mo- tions, its v/hole body is carried in a circle. But be-, ing also often moved as upon an axis perpendicular to J its plane, its circumference turns in a circle whoseH centre is this axis (a). Whichever of these motions-; it performs, it always carries the outer end of* the cla- vicle and the arm along with it. The glenoid cavity J of this hone receives the os humeri, which plays in it; as a ball in a socket, as will be explained more here-- after. Uses. TJje use ofthe scapula is, to serve as a fulcrum tod the arm ; and, by altering its position on differentt occasions, to allow always the head of the os humeri a J right situated socket to move in ; and thereby to as- sist and to enlarge greatly the motions of the superior' extremity, and to afford the muscles which rise from it more advantageous actions, by altering their direc- tions to the bone which they are to move. This bone* also serves to defend the back-part of the thorax, andu is often employed to sustain weights, or to resist forces,-, too great for the arm to bear. State at The base, acromion, coracoid process, and head of Birth. the scapula, are- all in a cartilaginous state at birth j, and the three first are joined as epiphyses ; while thev head, with the glenoid' cavity, is not formed into a dis- tinct separate bone, but is gradually produced by the: ossification of the body of this bone being continued, forwards. Os humeri. The Arm has only one bone, best known by the Latin name of os humeri *; which is long, round, and* nearly straight. Upper or The upper t end of this bone % is formed into a large proximal ea"' (a) See "Winslow, Mcmoires de Tacad. des sciences, 172C. * Acrocolium. -|- Proximal. E. | Ax^x'icc, <p\t»» os bracliii, ami, adjutorius. parfum bra- eliiuni, csniiii brachji.OF THE SKELETON. 183 ■round smooth head, whose middle point is not hi a straight ■line with the axis of the bone, but stands obliquely (backwards from it.. The extent of the head is distill- Iguished by a circular fossa surrounding its base, where ■the head is united to the bone, and the capsular Hga- Iment of the joint is fixed. Below the fore-part of its Ibase two tubercles stand out : The smallest one, which lis-situated most to the inside *, has the tendon of the msubscapularis muscle inserted into it. The larger more external t protuberance is divided, at its upper part, into three smooth plain surfaces \ into the anterior of Vfhich, the musculus supra-spinat us ; into the raiddls or largest, the infraspinatus ; into the one behind, the teres minor, is inserted. Between these two tubercles., _ exactly in the fore-part X of the bone, a deep long fossa is formed, for lodging the tendinous bead of the biceps flexor cubitr-; which, after passing, in a manner peculiar to itself, through the cavity of the articula- tion, is tied down by a tendinous sheath extended across the fossa; in which, and in the neighbouring tubercles, are several remarkable holes, which are pe- netrated by the tendinous and ligamentous fibres, and by vessels. On each side of this fossa, as it descends in the os hvmeri, a,rough ridge, gently flatted in the middle, runs from the roots of the tubercles. The tendon of the pectoral muscle is fixed into the interior of these ridges, and the latissimus dorsi, and teres ma- jor, are inserted into the internal one. A little behind the lower end of this last, another rough ridge may be observed, where the coraco-braelrialis is inserted.—- From the back-part of the root of the largest tubercle a ridge also is continued, from which the brevis exten- * Most ulflad. In the description here given of the hume- rus, the limb is supposed to be viewed in the supine position, or pendulous with the palm of the hand directed forwards. In this position those parts that look towards the radius are external; those towards the ulna internal; those towards the palm ante' rior , and those towards the elbow posterior. E. f Most radial. E. % Tlicnal side. E.OF THE SKELETON. soi> cubiti* rises. This bone is flatted on the inside*,, about its middle, by the belly of the biceps fltzor cu- biti. In the middle of this plain surface, the entry oft' the medullary artery is seen slanting obliquely down-- wards. At the fore-side of this plane the bone rises - in a sort of ridge, which is rough, and often has a great many small holes in it, where the tendon of the strong deltoid muscle is inserted; on each side of which the bone is smooth and flat, where the brac/iiceiis interims rises. Tire exterior of these two flat surfaces ■ is the largest •, behind it a superficial spiral channel,. formed by the muscular nerve and the vessels that ac- company it, runs from behind forwards and down- wards. The body of the os humeri is flatted behind ! by the extensors of the fore-arm. Near the lower end of this bone, a large sharp ridge is extended on its out- side, from which the musuclus supinator radii Iongus, ' and the longest head of the extensor carpi radialis t' rise. Opposite to this, there is another small ridge to i which the aponeurotic tendon, that gives origin to the fibres of the internal and external brachicei muscles it i fixed \ and from a little depression on the fure-side of: it, the pronator radii teres rises. Lower or The body of the os humeri becomes gradually distal end. broader towards the lower | end, where it has several processes ; at the roots of which, there is a cavity be- fore, and another behind ||. The anterior is divided . by a ridge into two; the external, which is the least, receives the end of the radius; and the internal re- ceives the cornoid process of the ulna in the flexions of the fore-arm, while the posterior deep triangular ca- vity lodges the olecranon in the extensions of that member. The bone betwixt these two cavities is pressed so thin by the processes of the ulna, as to appear diaphanous in several subjects. The sides of the pos- terior cavity are stretched out into two processes, one * Short head of the Triceps brachii. Alb. E- | Radialis extertiu* longior. Alb. E. % Distal. E. ijOF THE SKELETON. 185 on each side ; These are called cojidyles \ from each of which a strong ligament goes out to the bones of the fore-arm. The external * condyle, which has an ob- lique direction also forwards in respect of the internal f, when the arm is in the most natural posture (a), is equally broad, and has an obtuse smooth head rising from it forwards. From the rough part of the condyle, the inferior head of the bicornis %, the extensor digilo- rum communis, extensor carpi ulnaris \, anconeus, and some part of the supinator radii brevis, take their rise ; and on the smooth head the upper end of the radius plays. Immediately on the outside of this, there is a sinuosity matle by the shorter head of the bicornis muscle, upon which the musculur nerve is placed. The internal condyle is more pointed and protuberant than the external, to give origin to some part of the flexor carpi radialis ||, pronator radii teres, palmaris longus, flexor digitoritm svblimis, and flexor carpi uhiaris Between the two condyles, is the trochlea or pully, which consists of two lateral protu- berances, and a middle cavity, that are smooth and covered with cartilage. When the fore-arm is ex- tended, the tendon of the internal brachicevs muscle is lodged in the fore-part of the cavity of this pully.— The external protuberance, which is less than the other, has a sharp edge behind 5 but forwards, this ridge is obtuse, and separated from the little head, al- ready described, only by a small fossa, in which the joined edges of the ulna and radius move. The in- ternal protuberance of the pully is largestand highest ; and therefore in the motions of the ulna upon it, that bone would be inclined outwards, was it not supported by the radius on that side. Between this internal pro- * Radal. E. f Ulnar. E. (a) Winslow, Memoires de 1'acad. des sciences, 17'22. t Radialis externus. Alb. E. § Ulnaris externus. Alb. E. || Radialis internus. Alb. E. If Ulnaris internus. Alb. E.186 OF THE SKELETON. tuherance and condyle, a sinuosity may be remarked, where the ulnar nerve passes. The substance and the internal structure of the on humeri is the same, and'disposed in the same way, as* in other long bones. Connexion. The round head at the upper end of this bone is ar- ticulated with the glenoid cavity of the scapula y, which being superficial, and having long ligaments,, allows the arm a free and extensive motion. These li- gaments are however considerably strong; for, be- sides the common capsular one, the tendons of the muscles perform the office, and have been described; uuder the name of ligaments. Then the acromion and:; coracoid process, with the strong broad ligaments* stretched betwixt them, secure the articulation above,t where the greatest and most frequent force is applied^ to thrust the head of the bone out of its place. It is trr.e that there is not nearly so strong a defence at thee lower part of the articulation-, but in the ordinaryv postures of the arm, that is, so long as it is at an acute, angle with the trunk of the body, there cannot be any^ force applied at this place to occasion a luxation, since* the joint is protected so well above. Motions. The motions which the arm enjoys by this articula- tion, are to every side ; and by the succession of theses: different motions, a circle may be described. Besides which, the bone performs a small rotation round its own axis.- But- though this can be performed with the round head in all positions ; yet as these vary, thee effects upon the body of the bone are very different :. For, if the middle of the head is the centre of rotation, , as it is when the arm hangs down bvthe side, the body of the bone is moved only forwards and backwards ; because the axis of motion of the head is nearly att right angles with the length of the bone (c) ; where- as; when the arm is raised to right angles with the. trnnk of the body, the centre of motion, and the axis- of the bone, come to be in the same straight line ; and therefore the body of the os humeri performs the same (a) Hippocrat. de articul. \ 1;187 OF THE SKELETON, motion with its head. Though the motions of the arm seem to be very extensive, yet the larger share of them depends on the motion of the scapula. 1 he lower end of the os humeri}a articulated with the bones of the fore-arm, and carries them with it in all its mo- tions, but serves as a base on which they perform the motions peculiar to themselves; as shall be described afterwards *. Both the ends of this bone are cartilaginous in a State at" newrborn infant, and the large head with the two tu- Birth, bercles, and the trochlea with the two condyles, become epyphyses before they are united to the body of the hone. - The Fore-ARM t consists of two long hones, the Fore-Arm.-; ulna and radius ; whose situation, in respect of each other, is oblique in the least straining or most natural posture*, that is, the ulna is not directly behind, nor on the outside of the radius, but in a middle situation between these two, and the radius crosses it. The si- tuation however of these two bones, and of all the other bones of the superior extremity that are not yet described, is frequently altered ; and therefore, to shun repetitions,! I desire it may he now remarked, that, in the remaining account of the superior extremity, I un- derstand by the term of posterior that part which is in the same direction with the back of the hand ; by anterior, that answering to the palm •, by internal, that on the same side with the thumb ; by external, the side nearest to the little finger ; supposing the hand always to he in a middle position between pronation and supination. Ulna %, so named from its being used as a measure, Ulna. is the longest of the two hones of the fore-arm, and si- tuated On the outside of the radius. At the upper end of the ulna are two processes.— Upper cn»> ,i The posterior \ is the largest, and formed like a hook, * See Barcl. Muscul.Mot. p. 581. \ Cubitus, wn^vs w\h>i, vuyaiv. ulna, Ijyjei'tUS. \ Cubitus, •jenx"( ir^iixi>'>^ focile majus, carina vel anui'l* major, et inferior biachii. j Ancoaal . E..188 OF THE SKELETON. whose concave surface moves upon the pully of tfch os humeri, and is called olecranon *, or top of the cubh — I he convex , back part of it is rough and scabrodi where the Imgus, brevis, and brac/iiceus externus, an inserted. The olecranon makes it unnecessary tha the tendons of the extensor muscle should pass ove, the end of the os humeri; which would have been o< i! consequence in the great flexions of this joint, o when any considerable external force is applied to thi, part (a). The anterior t process is not so large, no does it reach so high as the one behind; but is sharpe at its end, and therefore is named coronoid. Betweei these two processes, a large semicircular or si^noit concavity is left; the surface of which, on each sid, of a middle rising, is slanting, and exactly adapted tf, the pully of the bone of the arm. Across the middln of it, there is a small sinuosity for lodging mucilarrj _ nous glands ; where, as well as in a small hollow or the internal side of it, the cartilage that lines the resK of its surface is wantiug. Round the brims of thia« concavity the bone is rough, where the capsular liga* menfc of the joint is impknted. Immediately below* the olecranon, on the back part of the ulna, a flat tri- angular spongy surface appears, on which we conn- monly lean;—At the internal side of this, there is a larger hollow surface, where the mnsclus anconeus is> lodged ; and the ridge at the inside of this gives risee to tire musculus supinator radii brevis.—Between theo top of the ridge and the coronoid process is the semiki-- nated smooth cavity, lined with cartilage, in which, and a ligament extended from the one to the other end-i of this cavity, the round head of the radius plays. Immediately below it a rough hollow gives lodging to mucilaginous glands. Below the root of the coro- noid process, this bone is scabrous and unequal, where the brac/iiceus intcrnus is inserted. On the outside of I * Aynvt, gibber cubitus, additamentum necatum. (a) Winslow, Exposition anatomiquc du corps hiimain, traitfi dcs.os sees, J 979. . f Tlicnal,. E,OF THE SKELETON. ]g9 ' lat we observe a smooth concavity, where the begin- mg of the flexor digitorum profundus sprouts out The body of the ulna is triangular. The internal * Body angle is very sharp where the ligament that connects the two bones is fixed : The sides, which make this angle, are flat and rough, by the action and adhesion or the many muscles which are situated here. It the distance ot one-third of the length of the ulna from the top, in its fore-part, the passage of the medullary ves- sels is to be remarked slanting upwards f. The exter- nal side of this bone is smooth, somewhat convex' and he angles at each edge of it are blunted by the pres- ure of the muscles equally disposed about them. As this bone descends, it becomes gradually smaller • r „ o that its lower end terminates in a little he{d™Zl2 °™ ™* lg on a small neck Towards the fore, but outer part t which last, an obhque ridge runs, that gives rise to ie pronatar radii-quadratus. The head is round nooth,.and covered with a cartilage on its internal de, to be received into the semilunar cavity of the idzus i VtMe a styloid process % rises from its outside ft which is fixed a strong ligament that is extended to ie os ctmaforme ^dpisiforme of the wrist. Between e back part of that internal smooth side and this ocess a sinuosity is left for the tendon of the extensor rpi ulnaris On the fore-part of the root of the ocess, such another depression may be remarked r the passage of the ulnar artery and nerve. The d of the bone is smooth, and covered with a carti- ?e. Between it and the bones of the wrist, a doubly- ncave moveable cartilage is interposed ; which is "a tmuation of the cartilage that covers the lower end tke radjus, and is connected loosely to the root of ■ styloid process, and to the rough cavity there j in .ch mucilagmous glands are lodged. Ihe ulna is articulated above with the lower end of r os humzrL where these hnn« U„ 1 • Connection , wuere mese bones liave depressions and tuberances corresponding to each other, so as to * Radial. E. t Proxitnad. E. } rj«p,<,ty malfeolus externus.OF THE SKELETON. 190 allow an easy and secure extension of the fore-arm tc I almost a straight line with the arm, and flexion to a J very acute angle*, hut, hy the slanting position of the* pully, the lower part of the fore-arm is turned out- wards in the extension, and inwards in the flexion (a) and a very small kind of rotation is likewise allowed inn all positions, especially when the ligaments are mosH relaxed hy the fore-arm being in a middie degree ol>t flexion. The ulna is also articulated with the radiui and carpics, in a maimer to be related afterwards. Radius. Radius *, so called from its imagined resemblance to a spoke of a wheel, or -to a weaver's beam, is the Upper end. hone placed at the inside of the fore-arm. ] Its uppei end is formed into a circular little head, which is hol- lowed for an articulation with the tubercle at the side of the pully of the os humeri; and the half of the rounc I circumference of the head next to the ulna is smooth.. and covered with a cartilage, in order to be receivedd into the semilunated cavity of that bone. -Below the< head, the radius is much smaller; therefore this part: is named its cervix, which is made round by the action i of the supinator' radii brevis. At the external t rooi t of this neck, a tuberous process rises ; into the outer! part of which the biceps flexor cubitiis inserted. From this a ridge runs downwards and inwards, where the - supinator radii brevis is inserted j and a little below-', and behind this ridge, there is a rough scabrous sut« face, A'v'here the pronator radii teres is fixed. Body. r£ke hody of the radius is not straight, but convex on its internal % and posterior surfaces ; where it is also, made round by the equal pressure of the circumjacent^ muscles, particularly of the extensors of the thumbs but the surfaces next to the ulna are flatted and rough for the origin of the muscles of the hand ; and botr terminate in a common sharp spine, to which the strong i (a) Winslow, Memoircs de l'acad. des sciences, 1722. * Ks{£*f, trKictirrix"*i ^minus, canna minor, arundi. ■dr. i". t Radial. E. i Ulnar. E.or THE SKELETON. ]9X i ligament extended betwixt the two bones of the fore- arm is fixed. A little below the beginning of the plain surface, on its fore-part, where the flexor muscle of the last joint of the thumb takes its origin, the pas- sage of the medullary vessels is seen slanting upwards. —The radius becomes broader and flatter towards the lower end, especially on its fore-part, where its prona- tor quadratu&muscle is situated. The lower end of the radius is larger than the sit* Lower end penor; though not in such a disproportion as the up- per end of the ulna is larger than its lower end. Its back-part has a flat strong ridge in the middle, and fossa; on each side. In a small groove, immediately on the outside of the ridge, the tendon of the extensor teriii internodii pollicis plays. In a large one be- yond this, the tendons of the indicator and of the com- mon extensor muscles of the fingers pass. Contiguous to the ulna, there is a small depression made by the extensor minimi digiti. On the inside of the ridge there is a broad depression, which seems again sub- divided, where the two tendons of the bicornis, or ex- tensor carpi radialis, are lodged. The internal side of this end of the radius is also hollowed by the ex- tensors of the first and second joint of the thumb ; im- mediately above which, a little rough surface shews where the supinator radii longus is inserted. The ridges at the sides of the grooves, in which the tendons play, have an annular ligament fixed to them, by which the several sheaths for the tendons are formed. —The fore-part of this end of the radius is also de- pressed, where the flexors of\the fingers and flexor carpi radialis pass. The external side is formed into a semilunated smooth cavity, lined with a cartilage for receiving the lower end of the ulna. The lowest part of the radius is formed into an oblong cavity : in the middle of which is a small transverse rising gently hollowed, for lodging mucilaginous glands ; while the rising itself is insinuated into the conjunction ot the two bones of the wrist that are received'into the cavUy. The internal side of this articulation is fencedOF THE SKELETON. (•) Weitbrecht, Syndesmolog. fig. 10, 11. 192 Interosse- ous liga- ment. State at birth. Articular 1 ion. .g dis- by a remarkable process * of the radius, from which a ligament goes out to the wrist, as the styloid process of the ulna with its ligament guards it on the oatside. The ends of both the bones of the fore-arm bein thicker than the middle, there is a considerable tance between the bodies of these bones ; in the larger part of which a strong tendinous, but thin ligament, is extended, to give a large enough surface for the origin of the numerous fibres of the muscles situated here, that are so much sunk between the bones^ as to be protected from injuries, to which they would otherwise be exposed. But this ligament is wanting near the upper end of the fore-arm, where the supinator radii hrevis, and flexor digitorum profundus,-axe immediate- ly connected («). Both ends of the bones of the fore-arm are first car- tilages, and then epiphyses in children. As the head of the radius receives the tubercle of the os humeri, it is not only bended and extended along with the ulna, but may be moved round its axis in any position, and that this motion round its axis may be sufficiently large, the ligament of the articu- lation is extended farther down than ordinary on the neck of this bone, before it is connected to it j and it is very thin at its upper and lower part, but makes a firm ring in the. middle. This bone is also joined to the ulna by a double articulation ; for above,' a tuber- cle of the radius plays in a socket of the ulna; whilst below, the radius gives the socket, and the ulna the tubercle : But then the motion performed in these two is venr different; for at the upper end, the radius does no more than turn round its axis ; while at the lower end, it moves in a sort of cycloid upon the round part of the ulna ; and as the hand is articulated and firmlv connected here with the radius, they must move together. When the palm is turned uppermost, the radius is said to perform the supination ; when the back of the hand is above, it is said to be prone. But * Malleolus internus. processus styloides.OF THE SKELETON. JQ$ then the quickness and large extent of these two mo- tions are assisted by the ulna, which, as was before ob- served, can move with a kind of small rotation on the sloping sides of the pulley. This lateral motion, though very inconsiderable in the joint itself, is con- spicuous at the lower end of such .a long bone ; and the strong ligament connecting this lower end to the carpus, makes the hand more readily obey these mo- tions. When we design a large circular turn of our hand, we increase it by the rotation of the os humeri, and sometimes employ the spine and inferior eziremi- tics, to make these motions of pronation or supination of the hand large enough *. The Hand t comprehends all from the joint of theKand. wrist to the point of the fingers. Its back part is con- vex, lor greater firmness and strength ; and it is con- cave before, for containing more surely and conve- niently such bodies as we take hold of. One half of the hand has an obscure motion in comparison of what the other has, and serves as a base to the moveable halt j which can be extended back very little farther than to a straight line with the fore-arm, but can be consuleraoly bended forwards. As the bones that compose the hand are of different shapes and uses, while several of them that are con- tiguous agree in some general characters-, the hand is, on this account, commonly divided into the carpu- metacarpus fingers ; among which last the thumb is reckoned. The Carpus % is composed of eight small spmgf Carpus bones S1tuated at the upper part of the hand. I shall wZt desenbe each of these bones, under a proper name taken from their figure („) 5 because the method of rangmg them by numbers leaves anatomists too much at liberty 0 debate very idly, which ought to be pre- ferred to the hrst number ; or, which is worse, several, * See Barcl. Muscul. Mot. p. 595. E. t A*f^-«f, summa mnnus. \ Kri.s, biacliiale, prima palmre pars, ragelta la) J.yscr. Cult. Anat. lib. 5. cap. % K194 OF THE SKELETON. without explaining the order they observe, differently apply the same numbers, and so confound their readers. But that tlie description of these bones may .he in the same order as they are found in the generality of anatomical books, I shall begin with the range erfi 'bones that are concerned in the moveable joint of the. -wrist-,- or are connected to the fore-arm, and shall after-- wards consider the four that support the thumb audi ossa mctacarpi of the fingers. The eight bones of the carpus are, os scaphoides,, lunare, cuneiforme, pis/forme, trapezium, trapezoidesR ■auagn win, u tic if or me. The scaphoides is situated most internally * of those that are articulated with the fore-arm. The lunare \s< immediately on the outside t of the former. The- cuneiforme is pleased still more externally, but does- not reach so high up as the other two. The pisijorme stands forwards into the palm from the cuneiforme %. The trapezium is the first of the second row §, and is ■situated betwixt the scaphoides and first joint of the thumb. The trapezoides is immediately on the outside of the trapezium.. The 0.9 magnum is still more ex- ternal. The unciforme is farther to the side of the< little finger. GsScapJioi- Os scaphoides \\ is the largest of the eight except; des- -one. It is convex above, concave and oblong below; .from which small resemblance of a boat it has got its name. Its smooth convex surface is divided bv _f rough middle fossa, which runs obliquely cross it; The upper largest division is articulated with the radius, into the fossa the common ligament of the joint of the wrist is fixed ; and the lower division it joined to the trapezium and trapezoides. The eon cavity receives more than a half of the round heat 1 of the os magnum. The external side of this hollow v * Most Racliiul. E. 4 TJlnad. E. tr \ Distad, nlnad, and thenad of the cune-.form bone. k» J i. e. beginning on the radial side. E. |j KoTuUuhs, naviculaie.105 OF THE SKELETON. formed into a semilunar plane, to be articulated with the following bone. The internal, posterior, and an- terior edges are rough, for fixing the ligaments that connect it to the surrounding bones. Os lunare * has a smooth convex upper surface, by OsLwian which it is articulated with tbe radius. Tbe internal f side, which gives the name to the hone, is in the form of a crescent, and is joined with the scaphoid;—tbe lower surface is hollow, for receiving part of the head of the os magnum. On the outside % of this cavity is another smooth, but narrow oblong sinuosity, for re- ceiving the upper end of the os tmciforme-: On the outside of which a small round convexity is found, for its connexion with the os cuneiforme. Between the great convexity above, and the first deep inferior ca- vity, there is a rough fossa, in which the circular liga- ment of the joint of the wrist is fixed. Os cuneiforme \ is broader above, and towards the Os Cunei- back of the hand, than it is helow and forwards -.forme. which gives it the resemblance of a wedge. The su- perior slightly convex surface is included in the joint of the wrist, being opposed to the lower end of the ulna. Below this the cuneiform bone has a rou&h fossa, wherein the ligament of the articulation of the wrist is fixed. On the internal side of this bone, where it is contiguous to the os lunare, it is smooth and slightly concave. Its lower surface, where it is contiguous to the os unciforme, is oblong, somewhat spiral, and concave. Near the middle of its anterior surface a circular plane appears, w.Vre the ospisiforme is sustained. Os pisiforme \\ is almost spherical, except one cir- Os Pisi. cuiar plane, or slightly hollow surface, which is cover-/"™*- ed with cartilage for its motion on the cuneiform bone from which its whole rough body is prominent for. t Radial. E. * Ulnad. E. 5 Triquetrum. jj Cartilaginosum, subrotundum, recttnitOF THE SKELETON. 19(5 WiMfds into the palm ; having the tendon of the flexor carpi ut1 nan's, and a ligament from the styloid proceed of the ulna, fixed to its upper part •, the tramverA ligament of the wrist is connected to its internal side; ligaments extended to the unciform bone, and to the as metacarpi of the little finger, are attached to its lower part; the abductor minimi digiti lias its origin from its fore-part •, and, at the internal side of it, a small depression is formed, tor the passage of the ulnar nerve. ( , ... Trapezium Trapezium * has four unequal sides and angles in its back-part, from which it has got its name. Above, its surface is smooth, slightly bollowed, and semicir- cular, for its conjunction with the os scaplioidcs. Its external side is an oblong concave square, for receiv-.' ii3g the following bone, the inferior surface is formed into a pulley'; the two protuberant sides of which are external and internal. On this pulley the first bone of the thumb is moved. At the external side of the external protuberance,, a small oblong smooth surface is formed by the os mttacarpi indicis. The fore part of the t?vpv%ium is prominent in the palm, and, near to the external side, has a sinuosity in it, where the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis is lodged j on the ligamentous sheath of which the tendon of the Jiexcr tcrtii intcrnodiipollicis plays : And still more exter- nally the bone is scabrous, where the transverse UgiJ ment of the wrist is connected, the abductor andI flexor primi intcrnodii pollicis have their origin, and liga- ments go out to the first bone of the thumb. 0s Tra'pe- Os trapexoides t, so called from the irregular quad- £U» ramrular figure of its back-part, is Oje smallest hong of the wrist, except the pisifamc. The figure of it I an irregular cube. It has a small hollow surface above, by which it joins the scaphoides ; a long con| vex one internally, where it is contiguous to the tra- pezium; a small external one, for Us conjunction u h the os magnum ; and an inferior convex surface, the * Os cuhiforme, trapezoids, multanguhim majus. ^ Trapezium, mirilaiiguluro oubus.OF THE SKELETON. 19? eda*es of which are however so raised hefore and he- i hind, that a sort of pulley is formed, where it sustains the os mctacarpi indicia. Os magnum?* so called because it is the largest hone Os Mag. of the carpus, is oblong, having four Quadrangular num. sides, with a round upperf end, and a triangular plain one below. J—The round head is divided by a small rising, opposite to the connexion of the os scaphoides and lunare, which together form the cavity lor receiv- ing it.—On the inside a short plain surface joins the os- magnum to the trapezoides.—On the outside is a long narrow concave surface, where it is contiguous to the os unciforme. The lower end, which sustains the metacarpal bone of the middle finger, is triangular, slightly hollowed, and farther advanced on the internal side than on the external, having a considerable ob- long depression made on the advanced inside by the metacarpal bone of the fore-finger; and generally there is a small mark of the os raetacarpi digiti annu- laris on its external side. Os unciforme\\ has got its name from a thin broad 0s jjnci. process that stands out from it forwards into the palm,/orac. and is hollow on its inside, for affording passage to tire tendons of the flexors of the fingers. To this process also the transverse ligameut is fixed, that binds down and defends these tendons ; and the fic.vor and ab- ductor muscles of the little fing- r have part of their origin from it. The upper plain -surf;'.ce is small, convex, and joined with the os lunarc :—The internal side is long, and slightly convex, adapted to the con- tiguous magnum .-—The external surface is oblique, and irregularly convex, to be articulated with the cuneiform hone : The lower end is divided into two concave surfaces ; the external is joined with the me- tacarpal bone of the little finger, and the internal one is fitted to the metacarpal bone of the ring-finger. * Maximum, capitatunu t Proximal. 1£. J Dislad. E. |j Caaeiforme. 4198 OF THE SKELETON^ In the description of the preceding eight bone-s, 11 have mentioned only those plain surfaces covered^! with cartilage, by which they are articulated to each, I other, or to some other bones, except in some fcwjl cases, where something extraordinary was to be ob- 1 served ; and I have designedly omitted the othee. J rough surfaces, lest, by crowding too many words in j the description of such small bones, the whole should-J be unintelligible : But these scabrous parts of the ] bones may easily be understood, after mentioning j their figure-, if it la observed, that they are generally found only towards the back or palm of the hand y that they are all plain, larger behind than before ; and that they receive the different ligaments, by which they are connected either to neighbouring bones, or to, one another 3 for these ligaments cover all the bones, and are so accurately applied to them, that, at fir6t view, the whole carpus of a reGent subject appears one smooth bone (a). Figure of As the surfaces of these bones are largest behind,, the Carpus the figure of the whole conjoined must be convex- there, and concave before ; which concavity is still more increased by the os pisiforme, and process of the os unctforme, standing forwards on one side, as the ira- pez-wm does on the other : And the bones are securely lent in this form, by the broad strong transverse ligal meat connected to these parts of them that stand pro- minent into the palm of the hand. ; The convexity be- hind renders the whole fabric stronger, where it is most exposed to injuries; and the large anterior ho] low is necessary for a safe passage to the numerou^ vessels, nerves, and tendons- of the fingers. The substance of these bones is spongy and cellnj 1 ir, but strong in respect of their bulk. ,r • The three first bones of the carpus make an oblong head by which they are articulated with the cavity at the lower ends of the bones of the fore-arm j so as p. 5-68:OF THE SKELETON. 199 to allow motion to all sides, arid, by a quick succession of these motions, they may be moved in a circle. But as the joint is oblong, and therefore the two dimensions are unequal, no motion is allowed to the carpus round its axis, except what it lias in the pro- nation and supination along with the radius.—The articulation of the first three bones of the superior row, with the bones of the iuferior, is such as allows of motion, especially backwards and forwards to the security and easiness of which the reception of the os magnum into the cavity formed by the scaphoi'des and lunare contributes considerably : And the greatest number of the muscles that serve for the motion of the wrist on the radius, being inserted beyond the conjunction of the first row of bones with the second, act equally on this articulation as they do on the former j but the joint formed with the radius being the most easily moved, the first effect of these muscles is on it j and the second row of the carpus is only maved afterwards. By this means a larger motion of the wrist is allowed, than otherwise it could have had safely : For, if as large motion had been given to one joint, the angle of flexion would have been very acute, and the ligaments must have been longer than was consistent with the firmness and security of the joint. The other articulations of the bones here being by nearly plain surfaces, scarcely allow of any more motion, because" of the strong connecting ligaments, than to yield a little, and so elude the force of any external power; and to render the back of the wrist a little more flat, or the palm more hollow, on proper occasions. The articulations of the thumb and meta- carpal bones shall be examined afterwards *. The uses of the carpus are to serve as a base to tiie Uses, hand, to protect its tendons, and to afford it a free large motion. All the bones of the carpus are in a cartilaginous state at state at the time of birth. Uirth. * See Barcl. Muscul. Mot. p. ipo. F„200 OF THE SKELETON- Metacar- pus. State at birth. Connexion On account of the many tendons that pass upon the lower end of the fore arm and the carpus, and of the numerous ligaments of these tendons and of the bone9r- wliic'h have lubricating liquors supplied to them, the pain of sprains here is acute, the parts take long time' to recover their tone, and their swellings are very ob-j stinate. Metacarpus* consists of four bones which sustain the fingers. Each bone is long and round, with its ends larger than its body. The upper t end, which some call the base, is flat and-oblong, without any con- siderable head or. cavity; but it is however somewhat hollowed, for the articulation with the tar pus: It is made flat and smooth on the sides wheiv, these bones are" contiguous to each other. Their bodies- are flatted on their back-part by the tendons of the extensors of the fingers. The anterior surface of these bodies is a little concave, especially in their middle; along which a sharp ridge stands out, which separates the muxculi interosseiplaced on each side of these bones which are there made flat and plain by these muscles. Their lower % ends are raised into large oblong- smooth heads, whose greatest extent is forwards from the axis of the bone. At the fore-part of each side of the root of each of these heads, one or two tubercles stand out, for fixing the ligaments that go from one; metacarpal bone to another, to preserve them fnmvi feeing drawn asunder".—Round the heads a rough ring-; may be remarked, for the capsular ligaments of the? first joints of the fingers to be fixed to ; and both sides* of these heads are flat, by pressing on each other. The substance of the metacarpal bones is the same* with that of all long bones. At the time of birth, these bones are cartilaginous at both ends, which afterwards become epiphyses. The metacarpal bones are joined above to the ossai carpi and to each other by nearly plain surfaces-. * K«/f/fc{**«e*"y> '~3>s> &yl"iw> Poslbraehia,c> tns, pnlma, pectcn. \ Proximal. E. \ JDiscal. E.OF THE SKELETON". i Radialis interims. Alb. 22. These connections are not fit for large motions. The articulation of their round heads at the lower ends with the cavities of the first bones of the fingers, is to be t;tken notice of hereafter. The' concavity on the fore-part of these metacarpal hones, and the placing their bases on the arched carpus, cause them to form a hollow in the palm of the hand, which is often useful to us. The spaces between them lodge muscles, and their small motion makes them fit supporteis for the fingers to play on. Though the ossa metacarpi. so far agree, yet they DifFereu- may be distinguished from each other by the following ces- marks. The os metacarpi indicts is generally the longest.— Its base, which is articulated with the os trapezm'dcs, is hollow in the middle. The small ridge on the in* ternal side of this oblong cavity is smaller than the one opposite to it, and is made flat on the side by the trapezium. The exterior ridge is also smooth, and fiat on the outside, for its conjunction with the os magnum ; immediately below which a semicircular smooth flat surface shews the articulation of this to the second me- tacarpal bone. The back-part of this base is flatted, where the long head of the extensor carpi radialis * is inserted •, and its fore-part is prominent, where the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis f is fixed. The ex- ternal side of the body of this hone is more hollowed by the action of muscles, than the internal. The tu- bercle at the internal root of its head is larger than the external. Its base is so firmly fixed to the bone it is. connected with, that it has no motion. Os metacarpi medii digiti is generally the second In length ; but often it is as long as the former ; some- times it is longer 5 and frequently it appears to equal the first only by the os magnum being further advanced downwards than any other bone of the wrist. Its base is a broad superficial cavity, slanting outwards ; the in- icrnal posterior angle of which is so prominent, as to * Radialis extcrnus. Alb. E.202 OF THE SKELETON. * Radialis externus. Alb. E» have the appearance of a process. The internal side ot this hase is made plain in the same way as the ex-, ternal side of the former bone, while its external side has two hollow circular surfaces, for joining the third metacarpal bone, and between these surfaces there is a rough fossa,, for the adhesion of a ligament, and lodg- ing mucilaginous glands. The shorter head of tl;e bicornis* is inserted into the back-part of this base. , The two sides of this bone are almost equally flatted \ only the ridge on the fore-part of the body inclines outwards. The tubercles at the fore-part of the root of the head are equal. The motion of this bone is very little more than the first metacarpal one has ; and therefore these two firmly resist bodies pressed against, them by the thumb, or fingers, or both. Os metacarpi digiti annularis is shorter than the second metacarpal bone. Its base is semicircular and l convex, for its conjunction with the os unciformc. Oai its internal side are two smooth convexities, and ai middle fossa, adapted to the second metacarpal bone.. The external side has a triangular smooth concave sur- face to join it with the fourth one. The anterior ridge? of its body is situated more to the out, than to the in- side. The tubercles near the head are equal. The? motion of this third metacarpal bone is greater than 1 the motion of the second. Os metacarpi minimi'digit/'is the smallest and sharp- est. Its base is irregularly convex, and rises slanting.; outward. Its internal side is exactly adapted to the. third metacarpal bone. The external has no smooth! surface, because it is not contiguous to any other bone j but it is prominent where the-extensor carpi uhiaris is inserted. As this metacarpal bone is furnished with « proper moving muscle, has the plainest articulation, hs> most loosely connected and least confined, it not only* enjoys a much larger motion than any of the rest, but draws the third bone with it, when the palm ot the hand is to be made hollow by its advancement forwards, and by the prominence of the thumb opposite to it.203 OF THE SKELETON. The Thumb and four Fingers aie each composed of three long hones. The Thumb * is situated obliquely in respect of the Thumb, fingers, neither directly' opposite to them, nor iu the same plane with them. All its hones are much thicker and stronger in proportion to their length, than the. hones of the fingers are : Which was extremely neces- sary, since the thumb counteracts all the fingers. The first bone f of the thumb has its base adapted to the double pulley of the trapezium : For, in view- ing it from one side to the other, it appears convex in the middle ; but when considered from behind forwards, it is concave there. The edge at the fore-part of this base is produced farther than any other part; and round the back part of the base a rough fossa may be seen, for the connexion of the ligaments of this joint. The body and head of this boue are of the same shape as the ossa metacarpi ; only that the body is shorter, and the head flatter, with the tubercles at the fore-part of its root larger. The articulation of the upper end of this bone is un- common : for though it has protuberances and depres- sions adapted to the double pulley of the trapezium } yet it enjoys a circular motion, as the joints do where a round head of one bone plays in the orbicular socket of another ; only it is somewhat more confined and less, expeditious, but stronger and more secure, than such joint- generally are. This bone in children is in the same state with the metacarpal bones. The second bone % of the thumb has a large base formed into an oblong cavity, whose greatest length is from one side to the other. Bound it several tubercles may be remarked, for the insertion of ligaments. Its body is convex, or a half-round behind j but flat be- fore, for lodging the tendon of the long flexor of the thumb, which is tied down by ligamentous sheaths * AiTiv ij tiKcvlv'os, magnus digitus, promanus, t Ptimum intcrnodium, or metacarpal bone of the thumb, AXiov. E. J Secundum inteinodium, proximal phalanx. E,OF THE SKELETON. 201. that are fixed on each side to the angle at th<* edge of tins flat surface; The lower end of this second kmc has two lateral round protuberances, and a middle cavity, whose greatest extent of smooth surface is for- wards. The articulation and motion of the upper end of this second hone id as singular as that of the former. For its cavity being joined to the round head of the Bra hone, it would seem at first view to enjoy motion in. all directions ; yet, because of the strength of its lateral' ligaments, oblong figure of the joint itself, and mobili- ty of the firs.t joint, it allows only flexion and extension j and these are generally most confined. The third bone * of the thumb is the smallest, with a large base, whose greatest extent is from one side to the other. This base is formed into two cavities and a middle protuberance, to be adapted to the pulley of the former bone. Its body is rounded behind ; but is flat- ter than in the former hone, for sustaining the naiL It is flat and rough before, hy the insertion of the flexor tertti' internodii. This bone becomes gradually smaller, till near the lower end, where it is a little en- larged, and has an oval scabrous edge. The motion of this third bone is confined to flexion and extension. Phalanges The orderly disposition of the bones of the fingers ot the fin- jnto tj)ree rfnvs, has made them generally obtain the *erS' name of three phalanges f. All of them have half round convex surfaces, covered with an aponeurosis, formed hy the tendons of the extensors, himbrieales, and interossei, and placed directly backwards %, for their greater strength, and their flat concave part js for- wards \, for taking hold more surely, and for lodging the tendons of flexor muscles. The ligaments foc- keeping down these tendons are fixed to the angles that, are between the convex and concave sides. * Terlium internodium, distal phalanx. E. tSeytalidse, intenicdia, scuticula, a^mina, aeies, condyll arti- i Anconad. E. } Tiiciiad. £.205 OF THE SKELETON. The bones of the first phalanx * of the'fingers answer First or to the description of the second bone of the thumb : proximal only that the cavity in their base is not so oblong; not Indiana, is their motion on the metacarpal bones so much con- fined $ for they can be moved laterally or circularly, but have no rotation, or a very small degree of it, round their axis. Both the ends of tbe first, phalanx are in a cartila- ginous state at birth ; and the upper one is afterwards affixed in form of an epiphyse. The second bone t of the fingers has its base formed Second or into two lateral cavities, and a middle protuberance ; middle while the lower end has two lateral protuberances and Pbalanx- a middle cavity ; therefore it is joined at both ends in the same manner, which none of the bones of the thumb are. This bone is in the same condition with the former in children. The third bone % differs nothing from the descrip- Third or tion of the third bone of the thumb, excepting in the distal general distinguishing marks; and therefore the second l)lialans- and third phalanx of the fingers enjoy only flexion and extension. The upper end of this third phalanx, is a cartilage in a ripe child ; and is only.an epiphijse after, till the full growth of the body. All the difference of the phalanges of the several Difler- fingers consists in their magnitude. '"The bones of the tllccs- middle finger § being the longest and largest,—those of the fore-finger || come next to that in thickness, but not in length, for those of the ringfivger ** are a little longer. The little-finger tt has the smallest bones. * n^axavSi/Xw. Froximul phalanx. E. f KcvSi/Xa;. Middle phalanx. E. } Mrrccxo^uUi piZaivov%iec. Distal phalanx. E. \ Kccraruyuv, oipxxxiXn. infamis, inipudicus, verpus, famosus, ©b scam us. || AiixriKo;. indicator A/vavos demonstrative, salutaris. iarj/xo; vtt£a.p,;trcS danrvXiurns, iwi^aTn;, annularis, mc- dicus cordis digitus. ft Kvu-^, t/Tlrns, auricularis, minimus.OF THE SKELETON. Which disposition is the best contrivance for holding xlie largest bodies •, because the longest fingers are ap- plied to the middle largest periphery of such substances as are of a spherical figure (<v). The uses of all the parts of our superior extremities are so evident in the common actions of life, that it ia needless to enumerate them here j and therefore f shall proceed to the last part of the skeleton. Only, lest I should seem to have forgot the small bones afl the joints of the hand, 1 desire now to refer to the de- scription of them, under the common title of sesamoid bom :-, which I have placed after the bones of the feet. OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. Division. The Inferior Extremities * depend from the ace- tabula of the ossa innominata ; and are commonly di- vided into three parts, viz. the thigh, leg, and foot. Thinh ^e THIGH ^ has only one bone ; which is the Bone. longest of the body, and the largest and strongest of any of the cylindrical bones. The situation of it is not perpendicular : for the lower end is inclined con- siderably inwards so that the knees are almost con- tiguous, while there is a.considerable distance between the thigh-bones above : which is of good use to us, since sufficient space is thereby left for the external parts of generation, the two great cloacce of urine and faces, and for the large thick muscles that move the ' thigh inwards ; and at the same time this situation of the thigh-bones renders our progression quicker, surer, straighter, and in less room ; for had the knees been at a greater distance from each other, we must have been obliged to describe some part of a circle wito the trunk of our body in making a long step, and, when one leg was raised from the ground, our centre of gravity would have been too far from the base of (a) Galen de usu part. lib. 1. cap. 24. * Sacral extremities. E. j Majav, femen, coxa, agis, anclw os; erus, feraui.207 OF THE SKELETON. •the other, and we should consequently have been in "hazard of falling j so that our steps would have been neither straight nor firm ; nor would it have beta possible to walk in a narrow path, had our thigh bones' been otherwise placed. In consequence, however, ot the weight of the body bearing so obliquely on the joint of the knee, by this situation of the thigh-bones, weak rickety children become in-knee'd. The upper * end of the thigh-bone is not continued Upper in a straight line with the body of it, but is set off^J^ obliquely inwards and upwards f, whereby the dis- tance here between these two bones at their upper- part is considerably increased. This end is formed in- to a large smooth round head t, which is the greater portion of a sphere unequally divided. Towards its lower internal || part a round rough spongy pit is ob- servable, where the strong ligament, commonly, but unjustly, called the round one, is fixed,'to be extended from thence to the lower internal § part of the receiv- ing cavity, where it is considerably broader then near to the head of the thigh-bone. The small part below the head, called the cervix, of the osfemoris, has a great many large holes into which the fibres of the strong ligament, continued from the capsular, enter, and are thereby surely united to it; and round the root of the neck, where it rises from the bone, a rough ridge is found, where the capsular ligament of the ar- ticulation itself is connected.—Below the back-part of this root, the large unequal protuberance, called tro- chanter major ^[, stands out j the external** convex, part of which is distinguished into three different sur- faces, whereof the one on the fore-part +t is scabrotts * Proximal. E. f Mesiad and Atlantad. E. } Vertebrum. || Dislal and Tibial E. § Sacral and mesial. E. f[ txoutos, relator natis, malum granatum teeticulorurn. ** Fibular. E. tfHotuiad. I'.OF THE SKELETON. 203 and rough, for the insertion of the glulceus minimus ; the superior one is smooth, and lias thegluta-us median inserted into it; and the one behind* is made flat and smooth by the tendon of the glutaeus maximus passing over it. The upper edge of this process is sharp and pointed at its back-part, where the glutatus medius is fixed •, but forwards it is more obtuse, and has two superficial pits formed in it: Into the superior of these the pyriformis is implanted ; and the obtvrutov inter~ nus and gemini are fixed into the lower one.—From the backmost prominent part of this great trochanter, a rough ridge runs backwards and downwards v, into which the quadratus is inserted. In the deep hollow, at the internal upper side of this ridge, the obturator exlernus is implanted. More internally, a conoid pro- cess, called trochanter minor %, rises for the insertion of the mitscu/us psoas, and iliacus inlernus ; and the pectineus is implanted into a rough hollow below its internal root. The muscles inserted into these two processes being the principal instruments of the rota- tory motion of the thigh, have occasioned the name of trochanter's to the processes. The tendons that are fixed into, or pass over the great trochanter, cause hruiscs by falls on this part to be attended with great pain and weakness of the limb, which generally re- main long. The hody of the os femoris is convex on the fore- part ||, and made hollow behind §, by the action of the muscles that move it and the leg, and for the con- veniency of sitting, without bearing too much on these muscles ; and probably the weight of the legs depend- in^ from the thighs in that posture contributes to this curvature. The fore-part of the thigh-bone is a little flatted above hy the beginning of the cruraeus muscle, as it is also below by the same muscle and the rectus. Its external surface is likewise made flat below by- * Poplitead. E \ ro|>lituad and distad. E. % Rotator minor. || Rotulad. E. § Toplitcad. E. ^ Fibular. E.209 OF THE SKELETON. the vastus externus., -where it is separated from the for- mer bv an obtuse ridge. The vastus internus depresses a little the lower part of the internal * surface. The posterior concave surface has a ridge, rising- in ita- middle commonly called lined aspera, into which the fyiccps is inserted, and the short head of the bicps flexor tibiae rises from it. At the upper part of it the me- dullary, vessels enter by a small hole that runs obliquely upwards t. A little above which there is a rough fossa or two, where the tendon of the glutceus masimus is fixed. The lower end of the 'tinea aspera divides into two, which descend towards each side. The two vasti muscles have part of their origin from these ridges j and the long tendon of the triceps is fixed to the internal, by means of part of the fascia Gponeuro- tica of the thigh. Near the beginning of the internal ridge, there is a discontinuation of the ridge, where the. crural artery passes through the apor.eiirosis. Be- tween these two rough lines, the hone is made flat by the large blood-vessels and nerves which pass upon it j and near the end of each of these ridges, a small smooth protuberance may often be remarked, where the two heads of the external gastrocnemius muscle take their rise, and where sesamoid bones are sometimes found \a)\ and from the fore-part of the internal tubercle, a strong ligament is extended to the inside of the tibia. The lower end of the os femoris is larger than any Lower or other part of it, and is formed into a great protuber-dislal end ance on each side, called its condyles ; between which a considerable cavity is found, especially at the back- part, in which the crural vessels and nerves lie im- mersed in fat. The internal condyle is longer than the external, which must happen from the oblique posi- tion of this bone, to give less obliquity to the leg. Each of those processes seems to be divided in its plain smooth surface. The mark of division on the exter- nal { is a notch, and on the internal || a small prolubcv- * Tilmil. E. f Proximad. E. (a) Vesal. lib. 1. cap. 28. & 30. % Fibular. E. || Tibial. E.OF THE SKELETON. 21Q ance. The > fore-part of this division, on which the rotula moves, is formed like a pulley, the external side of which is highest. Behind, there are two ohlong large heads, whose greatest extent is backwards, for the motion of the tibia; and from the rough cav ity between them, but near to the base of the internal condyle, the strong ligament commonly culled the cross one, has its rise. A little above which a rough protuberance gives insertion to the tendon of the tri- ceps. The condyles, both on the outer and inner side of the knee, are made flat by the muscles passing along them. On the back-part of the internal, a slight depression is made by the tendons of the graci- lis and sartorius; and on the external such another is formed by the biceps flexor cruris; behind which a deep fossa is to ba observed, where the poplitaeus muscle has its origin. From the tubercle immediately before this cavity, a strong round ligament goes out to the upper end of the fibula. Round this lower end of the thigh-bone, large holes are found, into which the ligaments for the security of the joint are fixed, and blood-vessels pass to the internal substance of the bone. State at ' All the processes of the femur are cartilaginous in. Birth. new-born children, and afterwards become small apo- physes, with large epiphyses. Gouue'xion. The thigh-bone being articulated above with the acetabulum of the ossa innomitiata, which affords its round head a secure and extensive play, can be moved to every side j but is restrained in its motion outward-, by the high brims of the cavity, and by the round li- gament ; for otherwise the head of. the bone would have been frequently thrust cut at the breach of the brims on the inside, which allows the thigh to move considerably .inwards. The body of this bone enjoys Motion. little or no rotatory motion, though the head most commonly moves round its own axis ; because the oblique progress of the neck and head from the bone <s such, that the rotatory motion of the head can bring the bodv of the bone only forwards and backwards : Nor h this head, as in the arm, ever capabhrof being211 OF THE SKELETON. brought to a straight direction with its body j so far however as the head can move within the cavity backwards and forwards, the rest of the bone may have a partial rotation. When the thigh-bone resists the actions of its muscles more than the trunk of the body can then do, as in standing, these muscles have their effect on the trunk, causing it to bend forward, raisin" it up, inclining it to the one or the other side, twisting it obliquely, &c. for which the rolling of the acetabula of the ossa hinominata on the round heads of the thigh-bones is well fitted. The osfemoris is ar- ticulated below to the tibia and rotula in the manner afterwards to be described *.. ^ " The nearness of the small neck to the round head ot the thigh-bone, and its upper end being covered with very thick muscles, make greater difficulty in distin- guishing between a luxation and fracture here, than in any other part of the body. The Leg t is composed, according to the common Leg. account, of two hones,, tibia and fibula, though it seems to have a very good title to a third, the rotuia ; which hears a strong analogy to the olecranon of the ulna, and muves always with the other two. Tibia J, so called from its resemblance to an old musical pipe or flute, is the long thick triangular bone, situated at the internal part of the leg, and continued in almost a straight line from the thigh-bone. The upper end of the tibia is large, bulbous and Upper spongy, and is divided into two cavities, by a rough emj> irregular protuberance ||, which is hollow at its most prominent part, as well as before and behind. The anterior of the two ligaments that compose the great cross *me, is inserted into the middle cavity, and the depression behind receives the posterior ligament. The two broad cavities at the sides of this protuber- * See Barcl. Muscul. Mot. p. 42G. E; f Kvr>yi*x. cms, tibia. } U^Kv/iftwv, ovrmvYiuwv, focile majus, arundo major, camva major carina domcstica cruris. | Atxfvirif, nuPt^ty^Sins, tuber, tuberculum,OF THE SKELETON. •ance are not equal ; for the Internal is oblong and- deep, to receive the internal condyle of the thigh-bone y while the external is more superficial and rounder, for the external condyle. In each of these two cavit ies o£ a recent subject, is placed a semi-lunar cartilage, which is thick, at its convex edge, and becomes gradu- ally thinner towards the concave or interior edge.— The middle of each of these cartilages is broad, and" the ends of them turn narrower and thinner, as they approach the middle protuberance of the tibia. The, thick convex edge of each cartilage is connected to the capsular and other ligaments of the articulation, but so near to their rise from the tibia, that the carti- lages are not allowed to change place far ; while the narrow ends of the cartilages becoming almost liga- ments, are fixed at the insertion of the strong cross li- gament into the tibia, and seem to have their substance united with it; therefore a circular hole is left be- tween each cartilage and the ligament, in which the most prominent convex part of each condyle of the- thigh bone moves. The circumference of these ca-i vities is rough and unequal for the firm connexion of the ligaments of the joint. Immediately below the edge at its back-part, two rough flatted protuberances stand out : Into the internal *, the tendon of the semi- membranosus muscle is inserted ; and a part of the cross ligament is fixed to the external t. On the out- side of this last tubercle, a smooth slightly-hollowed surface is formed by the action of the poplitccus mus- cle. Budy. Below the fore-part of the upper end of the tibia, a considerable rough protuberance J ri^es, to which the strong tendinous ligament of the rotula is fixed. On the internal side of this, there is a broad scabroua. slightly-hollowed surface, to which the internal long ligament of the joint, the aponeurosis of the vastus in- trmus, and the tendons of the seminervosus, gtacilia * Tibial. E. -) Fibylar. E. } 'i\vTiK.rifuov, anterior tuber.213 OF THE SKELETON. and sartofiius, arc fixed. The lowest part of this sur- face is therefore the place where the tibia-ought to be sawed through in an amputation, so as not to have too long and troublesome a stump, and, at the same time, to preserve its motions, by saving the proper muscles. Below the external edge of the upper end of the tibia, there is a circular flat surface, covered in a recent sub- ject with cartilage, for the articulation of the fibula; between which and the anterior knob, there is a rough- hollow from which the tibialis anttcus, and extensor (Hgitorum* langus, take their origin. From the smooth flat surface, a ridge runs obliquely downwards and inwards, to give rise to part of the solaeus tibia- lis, posticus, zm\fltxor digitprimlangus, and insertion to the aponeurosis, of the semimembranosus which co- vers the popli.acus, and to some of the external fibres of this last named muscle. At the inside of this ridge an oblique plain surface is left, where the greatest part of the jnusculuspoplitaeus is inserted. The remaining body of the tibia is triangular. The anterior angle is very sharp, and is commonly called the spine or s/u'jif. This ridge is not straight but turns fust inwards, then outwards, and lastly inwards again. The plain internal side is smooth and equal, being lit- tle subjected to the actions of muscles ; but the external J side is hollowed above by the tibialis an- ticus, and below by the extensor cligitorum Imgus and extensor pallia's langus. The two angles behind these sides are rounded by the action of the muscles*, —the posterior side comprehended between them is not so broad as those already mentioned, but is more oblique and flatted by the action of the tibialis posticus and flexor cligitorum longus.—Some way above the middle of the bone, the internal angle terminates, and the bone is made round by the pressure of the muscu- * It is scarcely necessary to lemark, that here, and in all succeeding passages where the jlcxors and cxte?isors of the toes are mentioned, the word pedis is understood. E. f A*».».%, spina, crca, linca puma tibia?, angulus acutus, \ Fibular. E.214 OF THE SKELETON. lus solaeus. Near to this, the passage of the medul-- lary vessels is seen slanting obliquely downwards. Lower or The lower end of the tibia is madei_ hollow, but so > Distal'end. that a small protuberance rises in the middle. Tbe internal side of this cavity, which is smooth, and, in at recent subject, is covered with cartilage, is producedJ into a considerable process, commonly called malleo- lus interims * ; the point of which is divided by aa notch, and from its ligaments are sent out to the foot.. We ought to observe here, that this internal malleolus is situated more forwards than the internal condyle of' the upper end of this bone ; which is necessary to bet remembered in reducing a fracture of the leg («). The external side of this end of the tibia has a rouglih irregular semilunar cavity formed in it, for receivings the lower end of the fibula. The posterior t side haai two lateral grooves, and a small middle protuberance. In the internal depression, the tendons of the musculiif tibialis posticus and flexor cligitorum longus are lodged and in the externalj the tendon of the flexor longuspol-1- lids plays. From the middle protuberance, ligament- ous sheaths go out, for tying down these tendons. The articulations and motions of the tibia shall be explained, after ^all the three bones of the leg are de- scribed, State at Both the ends of the tibia are cartilages at butb. Birth. and become afterwards epiphyses. _., , Fibula. % is ^e sma1l lonS Done> placed on tlie out> side of the leg, opposite to the external angle of thet tibia; the shape of it is irregularly triangular. Proximal The head of the fibula has a superficial circular End. cavity formed on its Wide, which, in a recent subject is covered with cartilage, but so closely connected to the tibia by ligaments, as to allow only a smal motion backwards and forwards. This head is pro? * ?<p„(i». ««v, talus, clavicula, clavilla interior, clavilla do mestica —Tibial ankle. E. («) Winslow, Exposition anatomique, des os sees, sect. odj. + Popliteal. E } IUfa*vK>0v perone, focile minus, arundo minor, <anm minor cruris, sura, radius.OF THE SKELETON. 215 tuberant and rough on its outside, where a strong round ligament: and the musculus biceps are inserted ; and, below the back-part of its internal side, a tubercle may be remarked, that gives rise to the strong-tendinous part of the solaeus muscle. The body of this bone is a little crooked inwards Body, and backwards *, which figure is owing to the actions of the muscles but is still further increased by nurses, who often hold children carelessly by the legs. The sharpest angle of the fibula is forwards f, on each side of which the bone is considerably but unequally, de- pressed by the bellies of the several muscles that rise from, or act upon it ; and, in old people, these muscles make distinct sinuosities for themselves. The exter- nal surface of the fibula is depressed obliquely from above downwards and backwards, by the two peroncei. Its internal surface is unequally divided into two nar- row longitudinal planes, by an oblique ridge extended from the upper-part of the anterior angle, to join with the lower end of the internal angle. To this ridge *he ligament stretched between the two bones of the leg is connected. The anterior of the two planes is very narrow above, where the extensor longus cligito- nnn and extensor longus poUicis arise from it ; but is broader below, where it has the print of the nanus Vesalii%. The posterior plane is broad and "hollow, giving origin to the larger share of the tibialis posticus. The internal angle of this bone has a tendinous mem- brane fixed to it, from which fibres of the flexor cligi- torum longus take their rise. The posterior surface of the fibula is the plainest and smoothest, but is made flat above by the solceus, and is hollowed below by the fiexor poUic's longus. In the middle of this surface the canal for the medullary vessels may be-seen slant- ing downwards. * Tibiad and poplitead. E. f Rotulad. E. i Poroneus tertius. Alb. E. gf>7]216 OF THE SKELETON. ■Remarks I have; taken particular notice of the entry anil direct on the <li- {ion 0f the medullary vessels of the large hones of the lection ot , •,• r \ i • ii- -i the medul- extremities {") > because, in several elmurgical cases, lary ves- * surgeon, who is ignorant of this, may do mischief to sels. his patient. Thus, for example, if these vessels are • opened very near to their entry into the hone, or while they are in the oblique passage through it, an ohstinate hsemorrhagy may ensue : For the arteries being con- nected to the bony passage, styptics, and other like corrugators, are vainly applied ; compressing instru- ■ ments can do no service, and ligatures cannot be em-- ployed. There seems to he a particular design in the contrivance of these canals ; those in the 08 kvmerM tibia, and fibula, running obliquely downwards iron their external entry ', whereas, in the radius, ulna, and I os femon's, they slant upwards, whereby the arteries andi nerves which are sent into these three last bones must suf-- fer a considerable reflection before they come at the con-- celli. The reason of this diversity may perhaps be, that the; arteries which are so small within the bones as to have; no strong contractile propelling force in their coat?, audi where they are not assisted by the action of any mov- ing neighbouring organ, should have, at least in their, passage through the bone, a favourable descent forr their liquids : Which, it is evident, they have in the descending oblique passages formed for them in the first class of bones, viz. the os humeri, tibia, and fibula,. which are generally depending *, and they also mostt frequently acquire the like advantage in the radius,, ulna, and os femoris, because the hand, in the mostt natural posture, is higher than the elbow •, and when we sit or lie, the lower end of the thigh bone comes to^ be at least as-high raised as the upper. " In standing: and walking, or when the arms are moved, the blood i must indeed ascend as it passes through the bones of: the fore-arm and thigh ; but the pressure of the mus- cles then in action, on the vessels, before# they enter- the bones, is sufficient to compensate the disadvantage (a) Havers, Osteolog, nov. disc. 1. p. 59. tOF THE SKELETON. 217 of their course. This reasoning seems to be" still en- forced, by observing, that this passage is always near- er the upper than the lower ends of those bones*. The lower end of the fibula is extended into a Distaj End spongy oblong head, on the inside of which is a con- vex, irregular, and frequently a scabrous surface, that is received by the external hollow of the tibia, and so firmly joined to it by a very thin intermediate car- tilage and strong ligaments, that it can scarcely move. —Below this, the fibula is stretched out into a coro- noid process, that is smooth, covered with cartilage on its internal side, and is there contiguous to the outside of the first bone of the foot, the astragalus, to secure the articulation. This process, named malleolus ex- iernusi, being situated farther back than the internal malleolus, and in an oblique direction, obliges us na- turally to turn the fore-part of the foot outwards (o). At the lower internal part of this process, a spongy cavity for mucilaginous glands may he remarked j from its point ligaments are extended to the astrvigalus, os calcis, and os naviculare, bones of the foot; and from its inside short strong ones go out to the astraga- lus. On the back-part of it a sinuosity is made by the tendons of the peroncei muscles.—When the liga- ment extended over these tendons from the one side of the depression to the other is broken, stretched too much, or made weak by a sprain, the , tendons fre- quently start forwards to the outside of ihe fibula. The conjunction of the upper end of the fibula withconne the tibia is by plain surfaces tipped with cartilaee, * From the joint observations of Charles Stephans, Havers anil Monro, respecting- the direction of the canal for the medul- lary arteries of long bones, we may deduce the following ge- neral rule: That m those bones which are commonly in The epend.ng position, as the humerus, the tibia, and the fibula bese arteries run from the proximal or superior end of the bone to its distal or inferior; while in those which are usually ^frequently m the horizontal; (or other than a depending) po- rtion as \hcjemur. the radius, and the ulna, they run from he listal to the pn.ximal end of the bone. E. t Fibular ankle. E. O) Window, Memoires de l'acad. des sciences, 1722. ixion.218 OF THE SKELETON. t-ffibular. E. and at its lower end the cartilage seems to glue the two bones together, not, however, so firmly in young people, hut that the motion at the other end of such a long radius is very ohservable. In old suhjects, I often see the two hones of the leg grown together at their lower ends. L'scs. The principal use of this hone is to a fiord origin i and insertion to muscles ; the direction of which may he a little altered on proper occasions, by its upper part shuffling backwards and forwards. It likewise helps to make the articulation of the foot more secure: and firm. The ends of the tibia and fibula being; larger than their middle, a space is here left, which is- filled up with such another ligament as I described! extended between the bones of the fore-arm ; audi which is also discontinued at its upper part, where the.- tibialis anticus immediately adheres to the solaeus andl tibialis posticus ; but every where else it gives origin; to muscular fibres (a). State at Both the ends of this hone are cartilaginous in ai Birth. vipe child, and assume the form of appendices before! they are united to its body. Rotula. Rotula * is the small fiat bone situated at the fore- part of the joint of the knee. Its shape resembles thet common figure of the heart with its point downwards. The anterior convex surface of the rotula is pierce! by a great number of holes, into which fibres of the. strong ligament that is spread over it enter. Behind,, its surface is smooth, covered with cartilage, and divided by a middle convex ridge into two cavities,-, of which the external t is largest; and both are eM actly adapted to the pulley of the osfimons, on whichii they are placed in the most ordinary unstrainmg pos- tures of the leg-, but when the leg is much bended,! the rotula descends far down on the condyles ; and. (a) Wcilbrecht, Symlesmolog, p. IPG. i mola, genu, sculifonne os, cartilagmosnm, disciforme, oculns genu,©F THE SKELETON. 219 when the leg is fully extended, the mtula rises higher in its upper part, than-the pulley of the thigh-bone. The plain smooth surface is surrounded by a rouo-h prominent edge, to which the capsular ligament ad- heres :—Below, the point of the bone is scabrous, where the strong tendinous ligament from the tubercle of the tibia is fixed. The upper horizontal part of this bone is flatted and unequal, where the tendons of the extensors of the leg are inserted. The substance of the roiula is cellular, with very bin external firm plates : But then these cells are so Jdaall, and such a quantity of bone is employed in jfeeir format in, that scarcely any bone of its bulk'is >o strong. Besides, it is covered all over with a thick igament, (as it was observed, that this sort of bones generally is,) to connect its substance, and is move- ible to one side or other; therefore is sufficiently trong to resist the ordinary actions of the large mus- ses that are inserted into it, or any common external orce applied to it; while a fixed process, such as the olecranon, -would not have been sufficient to bear the vhole weight of our bodies, which frequently falls on t, and would have hindered the rotatory motion of the ig. Notwithstanding these precautions to preserve lis bone from such injuries, yet ] have seen a trans- erse fracture in it, when, by the report of the pa- ent, and of the people about him, and by the want f swelling, discolouring, or other mark of bruise or tmtusion, it was plain the bone was broken by the iolent straining effort of the muscles (c). Though ly patient recovered the use of the joint of the knee, et I think it reasonable to believe, that this sort of acture is commonly attended with difficulty of mo- on, after the broken parts of the rotula are reunited; ;cause the callous matter probably extends itself into' le cavity of the joint, where it either grows to some the parts, or makes such an inequality on the sur- («) See RoysclL Observ. Anat. oldrnra obj. 5.220 OF THE SKELETON. face of this bone, as docs not allow it to perform the necessary motions on the condyles of ihv femur (a). Suite at A*-tne ordinary time of birth, the rotula is entirely Birth. cartilaginous, and scarcely assumt s a bony nature so soon as most epiphyses do. Motions of The parts which constitute the joint of the knee the Knee being now described, let us examine what are its mo- Jjint. tions, and how performed. The two principal mo- tions are flexion and extension. In the former ofrl these, the leg may be brought to a very acute angle with the thigh, by the condyles of the thigh-boneBN being round and made smooth far backwards. In performing this, the rotula is pulled down by the tibia; When the leg is to be extended, the rotula is drawnr upwards, consequently the tibia forwards, by the ex* tensor muscles; which by means of the protuberant)! joint, and of this thick bone with its ligament, have« in effect the chord, with which they act, fixed to tbg tibia at a considerable angle, therefore act with ad-! vantage ; but are restrained from pulling the leg far-r ther than to a straight line with the thigh, by the pos-< terior part of the cross ligament, that the body mighli be supported by a firm perpendicular column : For aU this time the thigh and leg are as little moveable in i\ rotatory way, or to either side, as if they were one continued bone. But when the joint is a little bended." the rotula is not tightly braced, and the posterior liga ; mentis relaxed; therefore this bone may bemovec a little to either side, or with a small rotation in thl superficial cavities of the tibia ; which is done by tfa motion of the external cavity backwards and forwards the internal serving as a sort of axis Seeing the> one part of the cross ligament is situated perpendi cularly, and the posterior part is stretched obliquel from the internal condyle of the thigh outwards, tha posterior part of the cross ligament prevents the leg: (a) Pa.i. liv. 15. cap 22. (a) Winslow. Exposition anatonnque du corps numain. Iran *les cs sees, § 97(5. .223. OF THE SKELETON. being turned afr all inwards ; but it could not hinder- it from turning outwards almost round, were not that motion confined by the lateral ligaments of this join:, which can yield little. This rotation of the leg out- wards is of good advantage to us in crossing our legs, and turning our feet outwards, on several necessary occasions; though it is altogether fit this motion should not he, very large, to prevent frequent luxations here. While all these motions are performing, the part of the tibia that moves immediately on the con- dyles is only so much as is within the cartilaginous rings, which, by the thickness on their outsides, make the^ cavities of the tibia more horizontal, by raising their external side where the surface of the tibia slants downwards. By this means the motions of this joint are more equal and steady than otherwise they would have been. The cartilages being capable of changing a little their situation, are fit for doing this good office in the different motions and postures of the member, and likewise contribute to make the motions larger aud quicker *. On account of the very large surface of the bones Disease*, forming the joint of the knee, and the many strong igaments connecting them, luxations seldom happen iere. But these very ligaments, the aponeurosis pass- ing over tills joint, the quantity of fat and mucila- ginous glands necessary for lubricating it, make it nore subject to white-swellings, d?opsies, and such >ther disorders, than any other joint of the body. The Foot* as well as the hand, is divided into three Foot jarts,viz. tarsus, metatarsus,, and toes: Tn the de- fcription of which, the several surfaces shall be named, tCGording to their natural situation, viz. the broad of the foot, shall be called superior •, the sole, inferior ; the side on which the great toe is, internal > that where he little toe is, external. The tursw t consists of seven spongy hones •, to TanUt. wit, the astragalus, os calcis, naviculare, a/la'des, * See Bare). Muscul. Mot. p. 4£3. E. f Ilassclta.OF THE SKELETON. rnnciforme externum, cuneiforme medium, and c unci- forme internum. v The astragaltes is tlic uppermost of these bones The os culcis is below the astragalus, and is con- siderably prominent backwards beyond the oiliest bones to form the heel. The os navicularc is in the middle of the internal side of Jie tarsus *. The oas cuboides is the most external of the row of four bones■ at its fore part t. The os cuneiforme externum placed at the inside J of the cuboid. The cuneiforme ■medium is between the external and internal cuneiform bones, and the internal cuneiform is put at the internal j aide of the foot |[. That the description of these bones may not be im- moderately swelled with repetition, I desire, ence forr all, to observe, That wherever a ridge is mentioned,, without a pai'ticular use assigned, a ligament is un- derstood to be fixed to it : or where a spongy rough 1 cavity, depression, or fossa is remarked, without naming^ its use, a ligament is inserted, and mucilaginous glands-; are lodged : For such will occur in the detail of eachb of these bones. Astragalus The upper part of the astragalus § is formed into aa large smooth head %, which is slightly hollowed \\\. the middle; and therefore resembles a superficial pul- ley, by which it is fitted to the lower end of the tibia. The internal side of this head is flat and smooth, too play on the internal malleolus. The external side haaa also such a surface, but larger, for its articulation with; the external malleolus. Xlaund the base of this head* there is a rough fissa; and, immediately before fliO head, as also below its internal smooth surface, we find a considerable rough cavity. * Distad of the astragalus, on tlte tibial side of the foot. E. t Pistad of the os caicis on the fibular side. E. % Tibiud. E. |] Distad of the navicularc on the tibial side. K. \ "Aff?uh talus, balistse os, malleolus, chaib, q.ualik>, os IcssaMtf claviculw, nucifornie.OF THE SKELETON. The lower surface of the astragalus is divided by an irregular deep rough fossa; which at its internal end is narrow, but gradually widens, as it stretches obliquely outwards and forwards. The smooth sur- face *, covered with cartilage, behind this fossa, is large, oblong, extended in the same oblique situation with the fossa, and concave, for its conjunction with the ay calcis. The back-part of the edge of this ca- vity is produced into two sharp-pointed rough processes, between which is a depression made by the tendon of the flexor pollicis longus. The lower surface before the fossa is convex, and composed of three distinct smooth planes. The long one behind, and the exterior oi* shortest, are articulated with the heel-bone ; while tlie interna!) which is the most convex of the three, rests and moves upon a cartilaginous ligament, tbati* continued from the * cakane'utn to the as seap hoick s.-~- Without which ligament, the astragalus could not be sustained, but would he pressed out of its place by the great weight it supports, and the other bones of the tarsus would he separated. Nor would a bone he lit here, because it must have boon thicker than could conveniently be allowed j otherwise it would break, and would not prove such an easy bending base, to lessen the shock which is given to the body in leaping, running, &c. The fore-part f of this bone is formed into a convex oblong smooth head, called by some its process, which is received by the ay naviculars Hound the root of this .head, especially on the upper surface, a rough. fossa may be remarked. The astragalus is articulated above to the tibia and Oonnesip* fibula, which together form one cavity. Though, in this articulation, the hones have prominences and cavities so small, as might allow motions in all direc- tions 5 yet the flexion and extension are the most con- siderable, the other motions being confined by the- mallcoli, and by the strong ligaments which go-oui * Proximal side. E. f Distal side. E.OF THE SKELETON. from the points of these processes to the astragalus and os calcis. When the foot is bended, as far as commonly it is when we stand, no lateral or rotatory motion is allowed in this joint; for then the head of the astragalus is sunk deep between the malleoli, and the ligaments are tense y but when the foot is ex- tended, the astragalus can move a little to either side, and with a small rotation. By this contrivance the foot is firm, when the weight of the body is to be sup- ported on it y and when a foot is raised, we are at li- berty to direct it more exactly to the place we intend next to step upon. The astragalus is joined below, to the os calcis ; and before, to the os nuciculare, in the . manner to be explained, when these bones are de- scribed. State at considerable share of this bone is ossified in a new birth. born infant. Heel-bone. Calcaneum * is the largest bone of the seven. Be- hind, it is formed into a large knob, commonly called the heel: The surface of which is rough behind, where the tench Achillis is inserted into it j and above, it is hollow and spongy. Farther forwards, on the upper surface of the calcaneum, there is an irregular oblong, smooth convexity, adapted to the concavity at the back-part of the astragalus: And beyond this a nar- row fossa is seen which divides it from two small con- cave smooth surfaces, that are joined to the fore-part of the astragalus. Behind the posterior of these smooth surfaces, which is the largest, a small sinuosity is made by the tendon of the flexor digitorum longus j at the- fore-part of which a small rough protuberance ap- pears, that gives rise to the musculus extensor cl/'gilo- rum brevis. The external sidef of tins bone is flat, with a super - ficial fossa running horizontally, in which the tendon of the musculuspe.ronmis longus is lodged. The inter- nal J side of the heel-bone is hollowed, for lodging the # Os calcis. cT=f»* alcar, pedis. \ Fibular. E. 1 Tibial. E,225 OF THE SKELETON. origin of the massa carnea Jac. Sylvii *, and for the safe passage of tendons, nerves, and arteries. Under the side of the internal smooth concavity, a particular groove is made hy the tendon of the flexor polticis lon>- gus ; and from the thin protuberance on this internal side, the cartilaginous ligament that supports the astra- galus, goes out to the os naviculare ; on which liga- ment, and on the edge of this bone to which it is fixed, the groove is formed for the tendon of the flexor digi- toritm profundus* The lower surface of this bone is pressed flat at the back-part, by the weight of our bodies ; and immedi- ately before this plane, there are two tubercles, from the internal of which the musculus abductor pollicis, flexor digitoruui sublimis, as also part of the aponeuro- sis plantaris, and of the abductor minimi digiti, have their origin ; and the other part of the abductor minimi digiti and aponeurosisplantaris rises from the external. —Before these protuberances this bone is concave, for lodging the flexor muscles and at its fore-part ws may observe a tough depression, from which, and a tubercle behind it, the ligament goes out that prevents this bone from being separated from the os cvboi- des. The fore-part t of the os calcis is formed into an oh* long pulley-like smooth surface, which is circular at its upper external end, but is pointed below. This smooth surface is fitted to the os cuboides. Though the surfaces by which the astragalus and os calcis are articulated, seem fit enough for motion ; yet the very strong ligaments by which these bones are connected, prevent it, and render this principal part of our base, which rests on the ground, to wit, the os cal- cis, firm. A large share of the heel-bone is ossified at the or- State at dinary time of birth, and the large knob appears after- birth, wards in form of an epipkyse. * Flexores digitorum acccssorii. t Distal. JQ.OF THE SKELETON. 226 Os Navicur Os naviculare *, is somewhat circular. It is formed? tare. jnj_0 an 0blont^ concavity behind lor receiving tlie an- terior head of the astragalus. On the upper surface there is a rongh.Jbesa. Below, the os naviculare ia. very unequal and rough but hollow for the safety of' the muscles. On its inside a large knob rises out, from, which the abductor pallia's takes in part its origin, the tendon of the tibialis posticus is inserted into it, and to it two remarkable ligaments are fixed j the first is the strong one, formerly mentioned, which supports the astragalus ; the second is stretched from this hone ob- liquely cross the foot, to the metatarsal bones of the middle toe, and of the toe next to the little one. On the outside of the 0.9 naviculare there is a semicircular smooth surface, where it is joined to the os cuboides. The fore-part of this bone is all covered with cartilage, and is divided into three smooth planes, fitted to the three ossa ciineiformia. Connexion. i'ne os nuviCulare and astragalus are joined as a ball and socket, and the naviculare moves in all directions in turning the toes inwards, or in raising or depressing either side of the foot, though the motions are greatly restrained by the ligaments which connect this to the otber bones of the tarsus. A weakness of these liga- ments causes sometimes an unnatural turn of the fore- part of the foot inwards. The os naviculare is wholly cartilaginous in a new- born infant. On Cuboi- Os CuBOTDES * is a very irregular cube. Behind, des' it is formed into an oblong unequal concavity, adapted (0 the fore-part of the OS calcis. On its internal side, there is a small semicircular smooth cavity to join the os naviculare. Immediately before which, an oblong smooth plane is made by the os ciineijhrmc externum. Below this the bone is hollow and rough. On the internal side of (lie lower surface, around protuberance atid fossa are found, where the j?iusculus abductor pol- * •SzuQouV/it, os cynibse. • f TioXvftotfov, cubiforme, qiiadrn.ti'.m, grandinosum. ranum, feusafae, multiforme.OF THE SKELETON. —0 litis has its origin. On the external side of this same surface, there is a round knob, covered with cartilage j immediately before which a smooth fossa mt.y be ob- served, in which the tendon of the femnceus-primus.*' runs obliquely cross the foot ; and on the knob, the thin flat cartilage proper to tiiis muscle plays ; m place of which sometimes a bone is found : More ex- ternally than the knob, a rough hollow is made, for the strong ligaments stretched betwixt this bone and the as caicis. Before, the surface of the os cuboides is •flat, smooth, and slightly divided into two planes, for sustaining the os metatarsi of the little toe, and of the toe next to it. The form of the back-part of the os cuboides, and the ligaments connecting the joint there with the os caicis, both concur in allowing little motion in this part. The ossification of this bone is scarcely begun at the birth. Os cuneiforme e,vterm/mi,ii we regard its situation External or medium by its bulk, is much of the shape of a wedge, or r'!nillir being broad and flat above, aviUi long' sides running noue< obliquely downwards, and terminating in a sharp edge. The upper surface of this bone is an oblong square. The one behind is nearly a triangle, but not com- plete at the inferior angle, and is joined to the os nctvi- culare. Tbe external side is an oblong square divided as it were by. a diagonal j the upper half of .it is smooth, for its conjunction with the os cuboides : The other is a scabrous hollow, and in its superior anterior angle a. small smooth impression is made by tbe os metatarsi of the coe next to the little one. The internal side of this bone is also quadrangular, with the fore-part of its edge made flat and smooth by the os me.tata.rsi of the toe next to the .great one, and the hack-part is also flat and smooth where the os cuneiforme medium is conti- guous to it. The fore-part of this bone is an oblong triangle, for sustaining tbe os metatarsi of the middle toe. * Pernncus longits, Alb. E, j- Chiilcoideum cxlciuum..228 OF THE SKELETON. 1 Middle cu- Os cuHeiforme medium, or minimum, is still more Bone"" exact,y t,,e *naPe of a wedge than the former. Its upper-part is square j—its internal side has a flat smooth surface above and behind, for its conjunction, with the following bone : with a small rough fossa be- low j and a considerable share of it is rough and hol- low. The external side is smooth and a little hollow- ed, where it is contiguous to the last described bone. Behind, this bone is triangular, where it is articulated with the os naviculare ; and it is also triangular at its fore-part, where it is contiguous to the os metatarsi o£ the toe next to the great one. Internal or Os cuneiformt maximum or internum, differs from iieiforCU" *"W0 f°rmer'in i*s situation, which is more oblique Bone. than theirs. Besides, its broad thick part is placed below, and the small thin point is above, and outwards ; while its under broad surface is concave, for allowing a safe passage to the flexors of the great toe. The surface of this os cinu iforme behind, where it is joined to the os naviculare, is hollow, smooth, and of a circular figure below, but pointed above. The external side* consists of two smooth and flat surfaces, whose direc- tion is nearly at right angles with each other. With the posterior, that runs obliquely from below forwards and upwards, the os cuneiforme minimum is joined \ and with the anterior, whose direction is longitudinal, the os metatarsi of the toe next to the great one is con- nected. The fore-part of this bone is semilunar, but ilat and smooth, for sustaining the os metatarsi of the great toe. The internal side is scabrous, with two re- markable tubercles below, from which the muscu/us ab- ductor pallia's rises, and the tibialis anticus is inserted into its upper part. The three cuneiform bones are all so secured by ligaments, that very little motion is allowed in any of them, and they arc cartilaginous in a foetus of nine months. Figure ana These seven bones of the tarsus, when joined, are uses of the convex above, and leave a concavity below, for lod- Tarsus. 'g safe]y the several muscles, tendons, vessels, and nerves that Jie in the sole of the foot. In the recentOF THE SKELETON. subject, their upper and lower surfaces are covered with strong ligaments which adhere firmly to them, and all the bones are so tightly connected by these ami the other ligaments, which are fixed to the rough ridges and fossce mentioned in the preceding descrip- tion of the particular bones, that, notwithstanding the many surfaces covered with cartilage, some of which are of the form of the very moveable articulations, no more motion is here allowed, than only to prevent too- great a shock, of the fabric of the body in walking, leaping, &c. by falling on too solid a base ; which, it it was one continued bone, would likewise be much- more liable to be broken : and, in order to/ make our foot accommodate itself to the surfaces we tread on, by becoming more or less hollow, or by raising or de- pressing either side of it, as might be judged by what was said of the particular bones. Sprains here occasion, as in the wrist,, great pain and obstinate tumours, which too often cause carious bones* Metatarsus * is composed of five bones, which Meiatar- in their general characters, agree with the metacarpal sus. bones ; but may be distinguished from them by the following marks : 1. They are longer, thicker, and stronger. 2. Their anterior + round ends are not so broad, and are less in proportion to their bases J. 5. Their bodies are sharper above and flatter on the sides, with their inferior ridge inclined more to the outside. 4. The tubercles at the lower parts of the round head are larger. The first || or internal metatarsal bone is easily dis- tinguished from the rest by its thickness. The one next to it is the longest, and with its sharp edge al- most perpendicular. The others are shorter and more oblique, as their situation is more external. "Which * 3t»Sd;, -riiin, planta, planum, Yestigium, solium, pectus, praecordium, pectusculum. + Distal. E. } Proximal. E. f] Beginning- on the tibial side. E.OF THE SKELETON. general remarks, with the description I am now to give of each, may teach us to distinguish them i'roin each other. Metatarsal Os metatarsi pallia's is by far the thickest and strong- greatt C&t' aS baving«iuch the.greatest weight to sustain, its oe" hase is oblong, irregularly concave, and of a semilunar figure, to he adapted to the as cuneiforme maximum. The inferior edge of this base is a little prominent and- rough, where the tendon of the peronceus primus mus- cle is inserted. On its outside an oblique circular de- pression is made by the second metatarsal bone. Its round head has generally on its fore-part a middle- ridge, and two oblong cavities, for the ossa scsamoidea ; and on the external side a depression is made by the following bone. Second toe Os metatarsi of the second-toe, is the longest of the five, with a triangular base supported by the os euuti- furm'e medium and the external side produced into a process ; the end of which is an oblique smooth plane, joined to the os cuneiforme externum. Near the inter- nal edge of the base, this bone has two small depres- sions, made by the os cuneiforme maximum, between which is a rough cavity. Farther forwards we may observe a smooth protuberance, which is joined to the foregoing bone. On the outside of the base are two oblong smooth surfaces, for its articulation with the following bone ; the superior smooth surface being ex- tended longitudinallv, and the inferior perpendicularly j between which there is a rough jWf/. Middle toe. Q.s metatarsi of the middle toe, is the second in length. Its ba^e, supported by the os cuneiforme ex- ternum, is triangular, but slanting outwards, where it ends in a sharp-pointed little process j and the angle below is not completed. The internal side of this-base is adapted to the pre- ceding bone 5 and the external side has also two smooth surfaces covered with cartilage, but of a dillerent figure •, for the upper one i* concave, and, being round behind, turns smaller as it advances forwards ; and the lower surface is little, smooth, convex, and very near, ike edge of the base.OF THE SKELETON. 231 Os metatarsi of the fourth toe, is nearly as long as the Fourth toe. former, with a triangular slanting base joined to the os citboides, and made round at its external angle, having one hollow smooth surfaee on the outside, where it is pressed upon by the following Lone, and two on the internal side, correspending to the former bone ; be- hind which is a long narrow surface impressed by the * os cuneiforme externum. , Os metatarsiof the little toe, is the shortest, situated Little oe. with its two flat sides above and below, and with the, ridges laterally. The base of it, part of which rests on the os citboides, is very large, tuberous, and pro- duced into a long-pointed process externally, where part of the abductor minimi digiti is fixed j% and into its upper part the peronceus seemidus * is inserted. Its inside has -a flat conoidal surface, where it is contigu- ous to the preceding bone. When we stand, the fore-ends of these metatarsal bones, and the os calcis, are our only supporters ; and therefore it is necessary they should be strong, and should have a confined motion. The hones of the Toes are much a-kin to those of Phalanges* the thumb and fingers-, particularly the two of the °^ u toess great toe are precisely formed as the two last of the thumb \ only their position, in respect of the other toes, is not oblique j and they are proportionally much stronger, because they are subjected to a greater force.; for they sustain the force with-which our bodies are pushed forwards by the foot behind at every-step Ave make ; and on them principally the weightof the is supported, when we are raised on our tiptoes. The three hones in each of the other four toes, com- pared to those of the fingers, differ from them in these particulars: They are less, and smaller in proportion _ to their lengths : Their bases are much larger than their anterior ends : Their bodies are more narrow above than below, and flatter on the sides. The first phalanx is proportionally much longer than the bones oi the second and third, which are very short. * Pcroneus brcvis, Alb. E. bodyOF THE SKELETON. 332 Of the four, the toe next to tlie great one, has the largest hones in all dimensions, and more externally the toes are less; The little toe, and frequently that next to it, have the second and third bones intimately •united into one-, which may be owing to their little motion, and the great pressure they are subjected to. The toes are of good use to us in walking; for, when the sole is raised, they brir g our body, with its centre of gravity, perpendicular to the advanced foot. £iate at The bones of the metatarsus and toes, are in the Cutli. same condition in children as those of the metacarpus and lingers. The only bones now remaining to complete the de- scription of the skeleton, are the small ones, which are found at the joints of the fingers and toes, and in some other parts, called Sesamoid OsSA Sesamoidea, which are of very different JJjues. figures and sizes, though they are generally said to lesemble the seed of the iemmum. They seem to me nothing else than the ligaments of the articulations or the firm tendons of strong muscles, or both, become bony, by the compression which they suffer. Thus, the sesamoid bones at the beginning of the gastroc/ic* mil muscles, are evidently composed of the tendinous, fibres only. Those, at the first joint of the great toe, are as plainly the same continued substance with the ligaments and the tendons of the adductor, flexor bre- vis, and abductor. That which is sometimes double at the second joint of that toe, is part of the capsular ligament; and if we enumerate the other sesamoid bones that are at any time found, we may observe aU of them formed in this manner. Their number, figure, situation, and magnitude, are so uncertain, that •it were in vain to insist en the differences of each ; and therefore I shall only in general remark, 1. That wherever the tendons and ligaments are firmest, the actions of the muscles strongest, and the compression greatest, there such bones are most comT roonly found. 2. That, cceteris paribus, the older the subject is in winch they are sought, their number is greater, and their size is larger.233 OF THE SKELETON. o. The more labour any person is inured to, he has, caeteris paribus, the most numerous and largest oasa sesamoidea. However, as the two at the first joint of the great toe are much larger than any other, are early formed, and are seldom wanting in an adult, we may judge, that besides the more forcible cause of their forma- tion, there should also be some particular advantage necessary at this place, rather than elsewhere, which may possibly be, to allow the fleaor muscles to send their tendons along this joint, secure from compression in the hollow between the two oblong sesamoid bones \ while by removing these tendons from the centre of motion, and giving them the advantage of an angle at their insertion, the force of the muscles is increased, and therefore the great superincumbent weight of our body in progression is more easily raised.APPENDIX. OF THE MARKS OF A FEMALE SKELETON, To finish the description of the hones, is generally to conclude the osteology ; but that no part of the subject may he left untouched, I think it necessary to subjoin the distinguishing marks of the male and female skele- tons ; and have chosen to illustrate them principally in the latter j hecause women having a more delicate constitution, and affording lodging and nourishment to their tenderjfetf«s«». till they have sufficient strength and firmness to hear the injuries of the atmosphere, and contact of other mere solid substances, their bones arc frequently incomplete, and always of a make in some parts of the body different from those of the ro- bust male ; which agree with the description already given, unless where the proper specialities of the fe- male were particularly remarked ; which could not be, done in all places where they occur, without perplex- ing the order of this treatise : Therefore I chose rather, to sum them up here by way of appendix. The causes of the following specialties of the female hones, may be reduced to these three : 1 A weak lax; constitution. 2. A. sedentary inactive life, iucrea - g that constitution. 5. A proper frame for being mo- thers,23G APPENDIX. The bones of women are smaller in proportion t<r their length, than those of men ; because the force of their muscles is not so great, nor is such strong exter- nal force applied to them to prevent their stretching out in length. The depressions, ridges, scabrous surfaces, and other inequalities made hy the muscles, are not so conspicu- ous in them j because their muscles are neither so thick nor strong, nor so much employed, as to make so strong prints on their bones. Their 0.9 frond's is more frequently divided by a con- tinuation of the sagittal suture, which depends on the first and second general causes assigned above, for the specialities in their bones ; as will appear after reflect- ing 011 the account given formerly of the middle inter- nal spine of this bone. Their clavicles are less crooked ; because their arms have been less forcibly pulled forwards, which in our European women, especially those of distinction, is more hindered by their garb. Their sternum is mare raised by long cartilages be- low, that the thorax might be there widened in some proportion to what it is shortened hy the pressure upon the diaphragm, when they are with child. The defect of bone, or the hole in the middle of the sternum, is oftenest found in t!. m, to allow the pas- sage of the mammary vessels, s>av some ; but, in my opinion, this is owing to a lax constitution, bv which the ossification is not so soon completed as in men, where the action of the solids is vigorous, and the cir. dilation of the fluids is brisk ; for a much smaller hole might have served this purpose ; and the branches of the internal mammary vessels which are sent to the external parts ol the thorax, do not pass here, but be- tween the cartilages of the ribs, before these are joined to the sternum. The cartilago xiphoides, is oftener bifurcated in wo- men than in men, for the reason assigned in the prece- d'-1 paragraph, viz.. a less forcible power of ossifica-. tion.237 APPENDIX. The superior cartilages of the ribs sooner ossify, to support the weight of the mamma'. The middle cartilages are more flat and broad bv -the weight of the breasts. The inferior cartilages are longer, for enlarging the chest. Weak women, who have born many children when young, often have the vertebrae of th.'ir back .bended forwards, and their sternum depressed, or become round shouldered and flat breasted (a) by the pressure and weight of the impregnated uterus, and by the strong action of the abdominal muscles. The os sacrum is broader and turned much more backwards, for enlarging the pelvis. The os coccygis is more moveable, and much less bended forwards, to facilitate the birth. The ossa ilium are more hollow, and more reflected outwards, and consequently further removed from each other, in order to widen the lower part of their abdomen, and for the better support of the impregnated uterus. The ridge on the upper part of the os pubis is larger in such women as have born children, being extended by the strong action of the musculi recti abdominis. The cartilage between the two ossa pubis, especially in women who have born children, is thicker than in men, by which the pelvis is mere capacious in females. The conjoined surfaces of the ossa pubis, and of the ossa innominata and sacrum are less, the angle under the symphysis of the ossa pubis, is much larger, and the arches formed below and behind by the ossa ilmm and ischium are wider, which, with the straighter os sacrum, and more distant tubcra ischii, leave a larger- passage for the exclusion of the child in birth. The great tuberosity of the ossa ischium, is flatter in women than in men, because it is more pressed up- on in the sedentary life which females enjoy. In consequence of the pelvis of women being wider, the articulations of their thigh-bones must be farther removed from each other; and therefore a larger space (a) Chesdden, Anatomy, book 1. chap. 5.238 APPENDIX. is left for the precreation and r,irth of children (a) , which distance of the,thighs, may he one reason why women in running generally shuffle more from one side to the other than men, to preserve the centre of gravity of their bodies from falling too far to one side of the joint of the thigh that supports them when the other is raised, which would endanger their tumbling to the ground (b). (a) Albin. De os?;b. § 559. (i) On the subject of this Appendix, see Soemmering, Tub. Scdet. ifoeminin. and Moreau liist. Nat, de la Fenirae. E. End of the Anatomy of the BONES.THIS ANATOMY OF THE HUMAN NERVES. GF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. 1. The numerous turns which the carotid and vertex.Motion of hral arteries make before they pass through the dura ih? blood mater, these arteries having neither swelling muscles wUhin tuc nor pressure of the atmosphere to assist the course 0f^ea(^- the blood in them, after they enter the skull, and their division into innumerable communicating branches in the pia mater, and its processes, shew, that the liquors must move more slowly and equally in them than.in most other parts of the body. % By the assistance of injections and microscopes, Conical the very minute branches of these vessels (§ 1.) are part of tlic discovered to go from the pia mater into the cwtex, encephalon eineritious, or ashy coloured part of the cerebrum,m°st"^s- c. rebelhtm, and spinal marrow; whereas we can see only longitudinal vessels, without numerous ramifica- tions or reticular plexuses, in the white medullary sub- stance of these parts. 5. Tire continuity of the cortex with the medulla of the encephalon and spinal marreiv is observable210 OF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. with the naked eye, and is more distinctly seen with the assistance of a microscope. 4. In dissecting the brain and cerebellum, we see the small beginnings or the medulla proceeding from the cortex, and can trace its gradual increase by the addi- tion of more such white substance coming from the cortex. 5. Both these substances (§ 4.) are very succulent j for being exposed to the air to dry, they lose more of * their weight than most other parts of the body do. Cerebral 6. In several places, we can observe the medulla to medulla be composed of fibres laid at each others sides, fibrous. 7< The medullary substance is employed in form- ing the white fibrous cords, which have now the name of nerves appropriated to them. Within the skull we see the nerves to be the medullary substance con- tinued 5 and the spinal marrow is all employed in forming nerves. Ori in of ^' e common °pini°n concerning the rise of the the'nerves nerves, founded on a superficial inspection of those uncertain, parts, is, that the nerves are propagated from that side of the encephalon, at which they go out of the skull.. But it having been remarked, after a more strict in-, quiry, and preparing the parts by maceration in water, that the medullary fibres decussate or cross, each other in some parts of the medulla ; as for ex- ample, at the corpus annulare *, and beginning of the spinal marrow : And practical observators having re- lated several examples of people whose brain was hurt on one side, while the morbid symptom, palsy, ap- peared on the other side of the body, of which I have seen some instances ; and experiments made on brutes having confirmed these observations, it has been thought, that the nerves had their rise from that side of the encephalon, which is opposite to their egress from the skull. It may however still be said, that this last opinion is not 'fully demonstrated, because a decussation in some parts is not a proof that it obtains universally; and if there are examples of palsy of the * Tuber annulare. E.OP THE NERVES IN GENERAL. 241 side opposite to where the lesion of the brain was, there are also others, where the injury done to the brain and the palsy were both on the same side. 9. The nerves are composed of a great many Fibrous threads lying parallel to each other, or nearly so, at "xture of *i. • ■: e u j 11 * the Nerves* their exit irom the medulla . This fibrous texture is evident at the origin of most of the nerves within the skull; and in the cauda equina of the spinal marrow, we can divide them into such small threads, that a very good eye can scarcely perceive them ; but these threads, when looked at with a microscope, appear each to be composed of a great number of smaller threads. 10. How small one of these fibrils of the nerves is, Their ex- we know not; but when we consider that every, even -;ne te" the most minute part of the body is sensible, and that 'iaitv*. this must depend on the nerves (which all conjoined, would not make a cord of an inch diameter) being di- vided into branches or filaments to be dispersed through all these minute parts, we must be convinced that the nervous fibrils are very small. From the examination of the minimum visibile, it is demqnstra- ted, that each fibre in the retina of the eye, or ex- panded optic nerve, cannot exceed the size of the 32,400 part of a hair. 11. The medullary substance, of which the nervous Coats, fibrils are composed, is very tender, and would not be able to resist such forces as the nerves are exposed to within the bones, nor even the common force of the circulating fluids, were not the pa mater and tunica arachnoides continued upon them ; the former giving them firmness and strength, and the latter furnishing a cellular coat to connect the threads of the nerves, to let them lie soft and moist, and to support the vessels which go with them f. * Monro 2dus has shewn, that these fibres are disposed in spini lines. See Nervous System, p .'38. E. •f* Rei! has given the name ot wurilema to the very delicate eellular coat which invests the nervous fibrils. E. M242 OF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. It is this cellular substance that is distended when air is forced through a blow pipe thrust into a nerve, and that makes a nerve appear all spongy, af- ter being distended with air till it dries ; the proper nervous fibrils shrivelling so in drying, that they can scarcely be observed. 12. These coats (§ 11.) would not make the nerves strong enough to bear the stretching and pressure they are exposed to in their course to the different parts of the body ; and therefore, where the nerves go out at the holes in the cranium and spine, the dura mater is generally wrapt closely round them, to collect their disgregated fibres into tight firm cords ; and that the tension which they may happen to be exposed to, may not injure them before they have got this addi- tional coat, it is firmly fixed to the sides of the holes in the bones through which they pass *. Nerve? ex- 13. The nervous cords thus composed of nervous tremdy fibrils, cellular coat, pia and dura mattr, have such vascular. m]merous blood-vessels, that after their arteries only are injected., the whole cord is tinged of the colour of the injected liquor ; and if the injection is pushed vio- > lently, the cellular substance of the nerves is at last distended with it. Inelastic. 14 A nervous cord, such as has been just now de- ■ scribed (§ 13.), has very little elasticity, compared! with several other parts of the body. When cut out: of the body, it does not become observably shorter,. whde the blood-vessels contract three eighths of their i length. 15. Nerves are generally lodged in a cellular on fatty substance, and have their course in the inter- stices of muscles, and ether active organs, where they are guarded from pressure ; but in several parts they are so placed, as if it was intended that they should . • Zfnu considers the outer coats of the nerves as merely con- densed cellular substance, and not proci, cL,ons of the dura ma- ter. Monro's Nei v. Sys.t,i>. 48. and Ludwig. Scriptor. Neurolog. Tom. iv. p. 106. E.243 OF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. M 2 there suffer-the vibrating force of arteries, or the pres- sure of the contracting fibres of muscles. 1.6. The larger cords of the nerves divide into Ramificsf branches as they go off to the different parts ; the w>u. branches being smaller than the trunk from which they come, and making generally an acute angle where they separate. 17. In several places, different nerves unite into one cord, which is commonly larger than any of the nerves which form it,. 18. Several nerves, particularly those which are Ganglions; distributed to the bowels, after such union, (§ 17-)> suddenly form a hard knot considerably larger than all the nerves of which it is made. These knots were called corpora olivaria, and are now generally named ganglions. 19. The ganglions have thicker coats, more nu- merous and larger blood-vessels than the nerves ; so that they appear more red and muscular. On dissect- ing the ganglions, fibres are seen running longitudi- nally in their axes, and other fibres are derived from their sides in an oblique direction to the longitudinal ones. 20. Commonly numerous small nerves, which con- junctly are not equal to the size of the ganglion, are sent out from it, but with a structure no way differ- ent from that of other nerves *. 21. The nerves sent to the organs of the senses, Pulpy con- lose there their firm coats, and terminate in a pulpy science of substance. The optic nerves are expanded into the ;xtreme soft tender webs, the retina. The auditory nerve has tlbrlls* scarcely the consistence of mucus in the veslibulum, cochlea, and semicircular canals of each ear. The papilla: of the nose, tongue, and skin, are very soft. 22. The nerves of muscles can likewise be traced till they seem to lose their coats by becoming very soft; from which, and what we observed of the sen- * On the structure of the &ar>£lions, See Monro, Nerv. Syst. p. 50 Bichat. Anat. Gener. Part. I. and Haase De GangL N\rvor. in Ludwig. Script. N> u,.>i. vol. i. p. 61. E.OF THE NERVES IN GENErtAL. 244 satory nerves (§21.), there is reason to conclude, that the muscular rierves are also pulpy at their termina- tions, which we cannot indeed prosecute hy dissection. 23. It would seem necessary that the extremities of the nerves should continue in this soft flexible state, (. 21, 22.), in order to perform their functions right: For, in proportion as parts become rigid and firm by age, or any other cause, they lose part of their sensibi- lity, and the motions are more difficultly performed. Nervous Though the fibres in a nervous cord are firm- fibrils roi ly connected, and frequently different nerves join into confound- one trunk, or into the same ganglion; yet the sensa- e(*' tion of each part of the body is so very distinct, and we have so much the power of moving the muscles separately, that, if the nerves are principal agents in these two functions, wliich I shall endeavour to prove they are, we have reason to believe that there is no union, confusion, or immediate communication of the proper nervous fibrils, but that each fibre remains distinct from its origin to its termination. Morbid 25. Changes produced any way upon the coats of changes. the nerves, cannot however miss to affect the nervous fibrils. The cellular substance may be too fuil of liquor, or may not supply enough; the liquor may not be of a due consistence, or it may be preterna- turally obstructed and collected. The pia or i.ura mater may be too tense, or too lax ; their vessels may be obstructed ; their proper nerves may be violently irritated, or lose their power of acting; and a great many other such changes may happen, which will not only occasion disorders in particular nerves, but may be a Cause of the sympathy so frequently observed among the nerves ; which is so necessary to be atten- tively regarded in a great many diseases, in order to discover their true state and nature, that, without this knowledge, very dangerous mistakes in the practice of pin sic and surgery may be committed. Nerves the 2fj! Many experiments and observations concur in instiu- proving, that, when nerves are compressed, cut, or any me,"s (,f other way destroyed, the parts served by such nerves, ana'per"' ^ther from the head or spine than where the injuringOF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. 245 M 3 cause has been applied, have their sensations, motions, l aps of and nourishment weakened or lost, while no such ef- motion, fects are seen in the parts nearer to the origin of those nerves; and in such experiments where the cause impeding the nerves to exert themselves could be re- moved, and the structure of the nerves not injured ; as for example, when a ligature made upon a nerve and stopping its influence has been taken away, the motion and sensation of the parts were soon restored. From which it would appear, that the nerves are prin- cipal instruments in our sensations, motions, and nourishment*; and that this influence of the nerves is not inherent in them, without the communication between these cords and their origin is preserved. This conclusion is just, notwithstanding that some- Objections times, upon cutting a nerve, the effects above men- answered, tioned have been felt for a short time ; but afterwards the person was sensible of no numbness or immobili- ty ; for wherever this is said to have happened, the cut nerve was only one of several which were sent to the member ; the want of whose influence was felt no longer, than till the habit was acquired of performing the functions easily by the other nerves. Nor is it of greater weight as an objection, that sometimes when a ligature is drawn very hard upon a nerve, and then is taken away, the nerve never again recovers its influence upon the parts it is dis- tributed to beyond the ligature, but is of as little ef- fect as if it had been cut through; which is to say, that its texture has been altered beyond recovery. The same thing is to be seen by tying a thread tight round a tender twig of any vegetable ; it decays. 27. Experiments and observations shew too, that Morbid when parts of the encephalon or spinal marrow have symptoms been irritated, compressed, or destroyed, the parts of from injury the body, whose nerves had their origin from such af- of Nerves* fected parts of the encephalon or spinal marrow, be- come convulsed, paralytic, insensible, or wasted ; and " It seems now fully proved that the nerves are not immediate- ly concerned m nutrition. See Monro's Nerv. Syst. p. 73. E.OF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. 246 in such cases where the injuring cause could be renew- ed from the origin of the nerves, the morbid symp- toms observed in the parts to which these nerves were distributed, went off upon the removal of that cause. From which it. is thought reasonable to conclude, that the nerves must not only have a communication with their origin, but that the influence they have upon the parts they are distributed to depends on the influence which they derive from the medulla encephali and spinalis. 28. Though the spina/ marrow has its own vessels and ciner tious substance which assists to form its me- dulla ; yet a "very large share of the medullary sub- stance within the spine is derived from the encephalon, whose medulla oblongata descends from the head, and. the influence of the spinal marrow on its nerves de- pends in a great measure on this medulla obbfigata of the head. Hence an injury done to any part of the spinal marrow, immediately affects all the parts whose nerves have their origin below where the in- juring cause is applied. A luxation of a vertebra in the loins soon makes the lower extremities paralytic ; a transverse section of the medulla at the first verte- bra of the neck, soon puts aa end to life. -Supposed 29. If such causes produce constantly such effects exceptions. (§26, 27, 28.) in us and other creatures living in near- ly the same circumstances as we do, the conclusions already made must be good, notwithstanding exam- ples of children and other creatures being born without brains or spinal marrow ; or notwithstanding that the brains of adult creatures can be much changed in their texture by diseases; and that tortoises,and some other animals, continue to move a considerable time after their heads are cut off. We may be ignorant of the particular circumstances requisite or necessary to the beino- or well-being of this or that particular creature, and°we may be unable to account for a great many vhamomena; but we must believe our eyes m the ex- amination of facts ; and if we see constantly such con- sequences from such actions, we cannot but conclude the one to be the cause and the other the effect, it.247 OF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. would be as unjust to deny the conclusions made in the three preceding articles, because of the seemingly preternatural phsenomena mentioned at the beginning of this, as it would be to deny the necessity of the circulation of the blood in us and most quadrupeds, because a frog can jump abouc, or a tortoise can walk long after all the bowels of its thorax and abdomen are taken out, or because the different parts of a worm crawl after it has been cut in*i a great many pieces *. It is therefore almost universally allowed that the nerves are principal instruments in our sen- sations, motion, and nourishment; and that the in- fluence which they have is communicated from their origin, the encephalon and medulla spinalis. But au- thors are far from agreeing about the manner-in which this influence is communicated, or in what way nerves act to produce these effects. 30. Some allege, that the nervous Jibres are all so- Cause of lid cords acting by elasticity or vibration ; others main- "ervous tain, that those Jibres are small pipes conveying liquors, 5J* by means of which their effects are produced. 31. The gentlemen, who think the nervous fibres Vibration solid, raise several^objections to the other doctrine ; considered, which I shall consider afterwards^ and endeavour to shew the fitness of their own doctrine to account for the effects commonly observed to be produced by the nerves. The objects of the senses plainly (say they) make impulses on the nerves of the proper organs, which must shake the nervous fibrils: and this vibration must be propagated along the whole cord to its other extremity or origin, as happens in other tense strings ; and these vibrations being differently modified, ac- cording to the difference of the object, and its differ- ent application, produce the different ideas we have of objects. * Tn the treatise on Physiology, drawn up by Dr. Kirby for the 4th edition of the. Encyclopaedia Britannica, (No. 55.) these phenomena are attributed to the more general irritability or greater diffusion of the vital principle in such animals. They Kem not to depend on nervous energy. E.248 OF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. Objections. 32. To this account of sensation, it is objected, first, That nerves are unfit for vibrations, because their ex- tremities, where objects are applied to them, are quite soft and pappy (§ 21.), and therefore not susceptible of the vibrations supposed ; and if there could be any little tremor made here by the impulse of objects, it could not be continued along the nervous cord, be- cause the cellular substance by which each particular fibre is connected to the neighbouring ones (§ 11.), and the fatty substance in which the nervous ccrd is immersed (§ 15.), would soon stifle any such vibra- tory motion. A second objection to this doctrine is, That suppos- ing the nerves capable of vibrations by the impres- sions of objects, these vibrations would not answer the design. For if what we know of other vibrating strings, to wit, that their tone remains the same, un- less their texture, length, or tension is altered, and that different substances striking them do no more than make the sound higher or lower; if these pro- perties are to be applied to nerves, then it will follow, that the same nerve would constantly convey the same idea, with no other variety than of its being weaker and stronger, whatever different objects were applied to it; unless we supposed the nerve changed in its texture, length, or tension, each time a differ- ent object is applied; which, it is presumed, no body will undertake to prove does happen. . Nay, Sdly, If ever such a variety of vibrations could be made, our sensations would notwithstanding be confused and indistinct, because the tremulous ner- vous fibre being firmly connected and contiguous to several other fibres of the same cord, would necessa- rily shake them too, by which we should have the no- tion of the object as applied at all the different parts where the extremities of these fibres terminate. 33. In whatever way the favourers of the doctrine of solid nerves please to apply the elasticity of nerves to the contraction of muscles, their adversaries insist that nerves are too weak to resist such weights as the muscles sustain ; they would surely break, especiallyOF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. 249 as they are in a great measure, if not wholly, deprived of their strong coats before they come to the part of the muscle on which they are immediately to act (§ 22).—The nerves being found to have little or no elasticity to shorten themselves (§ 14.), shews them altogether unfit for such an office as this of contracting muscles in the way proposed of their acting by elasti-. city; and when a nerve is viewed with a microscope while the muscles it serves are in action, no contrac- tion or motion is observed in it.—Nay, if they were elastic, they would equally exert their power of con- tracting muscles nearer to their origin as well as far- ther from it, when they were put into contraction or vibration, by irritation of any part of them. The former however does not happen. 34. As a further objection against either motion or sensation being owing to the elasticity of the nerves, it is said, that if this doctrine were true, the sensations would be more acute, and the contractions of muscles would be greater and stronger, when the parts become firmer and more rigid by age; for then their elasticity is increased: WhereaSi on the eontrary, it appears (§ 23.) that then the sensations are blunted, and muscular contraction becomes less and weaker. 35. If the nerves were granted to be elastic, and to communicate a springy force to all the parts to which they are distributed, they might appear neces- sary in this view to assist the application of the nu- tritious particles of the fluids to the sides of the ves- sels which these particles were to repair; and so far might well enough account for the share which nerves are thought to have in nutrition: But if we cannot make use of elasticity in the other two functions, sen- sation and motion, we must also endeavour to find out some other way for the nerves to act in nutrition ; which will be done afterwards*. 36. Having thus stated the reasons for and against Hypotnesii the nerves acting as solid strings, let us likewise relate of a ner- " On this subject, see Ludwig. Script. Neurolog. T. II. p. 369. III. 211. and IV. p. 195. Haller, Elem. Physiol, lib. x. xi. Dumas, Prjnc, de Physiol. Tom. II, p. 380. E.250 OF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. vous fluid the arguments for nerves being pipes, and theobjec- exani'med. tions to this doctrine. A great argument of those who think the nerves to be tube? conveying liquors, is the strong analogy of the brain and nerves to other glands of the body and their excretories, where a manifest secretion of liquor is made in the glands, to be conveyed by the excre- tories to the proper places in which it ought to be de- posited : They think that the vascular texture of the " cortex of the encephalon and spinal marrow (§ 2.), the continuation of the cortex in forming the medullary substance (§ 3, 4.), the fibrous texture (§ 6.), and succulent state of this medulla (§ 5.), and its being wholly employed to form the nerves (§ 7.), where the fibrous texture is evident (§ §.) ; all these things, say they, conspire to shew such a strong analogy between these parts and the other glands of the body, as car- ries a conviction that there is a liquor secreted in the encephalon and spinal marrow, to be sent out by the nerves to the different parts of the body. Objc-c- 37. The following objections are raised to this ar- • i on~. gument in favour of liquor conveyed in the nerves, from the analogy of the glands. 1*/, Other glands, it is said, have their excretories collected into a few large pipes, and not continued in such a great num- ber of separate pipes, as far as the places where the i liquors are deposited ; which last must be the case, if' the nerves are the excretories of the glandular brain. 2r%, We see the cavities, and can examine the li- • quqrs in the excretories of other glands much smaller than the brain ; which cannot be done in the nerves. Sdly, If the nerves were pipes, they would be so small, that the attraction of the liquors to their sides, would prevent that celerity in the motion of the liquors, which is requisite to sensations and motions. Mhly, If the nerves were pipes, they would be cylindrical ones, and! consequently not subjeet to diseases ; or at least we could have no comprehension of the diseases in them. Answered. 38. The answer to the 1st of these objections is,, That there are other glands where there is a manifest secretion, and in which the disposition of the excre-OF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. 251 tories is in much the same way as in the encephalon: The kidneys, for example, have a reticulated cortex of vessels, from which the Eustachian or Belinian me-* ditlla, consisting of longitudinal fibres and a few blood vessels in the same direction, proceeds ; and this me« didla is collected into ten, twelve, or more papilla?, each of which is formed of numerous small separate pipes, which singly discharge the urine into the large membranous tubes ; and these united form the pelvis. Upon comparing this texture of the kidneys with that of the encephalon (§ 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9) the analogy- will be found very strong. 39. In answer to the 2d objection, in § 37- it is granted, that microscopes, injections, and all the other arts hitherto employed, have not shewn the cavities of the nervous fibrils, or the liquors contained in them; and from what was said (§ 10.) of the smallness of the nervous fibrils, it is not to be expected that they should ever be seen. But so long as such a number of little animals can every hour be brought to the ob- jectors, in which they can as little demonstrate the vessels or contained fluids, it will not be allowed to be conclusive reasoning, that, because ocular demonstra- tion cannot be given of either the tubes or their con- tents, therefore they do not exist. For if we have any notion of an animal, it is its. being an hydraulic ma- chine, which has liquors moving in it as long as it has life ; if therefore such little animals have vessels and liquors which we cannot see, why may not some of the vessels and liquors of the human body be also invisi- ble to us ? To avoid this answer to the objection, it is further urged, That though we might not see the nervous tubes or the liquors they contain, as they naturally flow; yet if such liquors really exist, they ought to discover themselves, either by a nerve's swelling when it is firmly tied ; or that, however subtile their fluids are, they might be collected in some drops, at least, when the cut end of a nerve of a living animal is kept some time in the exhausted receiver of an air-jpump. It is affirmed, that neither did the tied nerve swell between the brain and ligature, nor was there any liquor col-OF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. lected in the receiver of the air-pump; from which it is concluded, that there is no liquor in the nerves. Some, who say they have tried these experiments, affirm, that in young animals the nerve does swell above the ligature, and that a liquor does trickle out upon cutting a nerve.—Whether swelling or liquor is seen or is not seen in these experiments, no conclu- sion for or against a nervous fluid can be made from them ; for the swelling of the nerve after it is tied, or the efflux of liquors from its extremity, will never prove either to be the effect of the fluid in the proper nervous fibrils, so long as they might be occasioned by the liquors in the larger vessels of the cellular sub- stance of the nerves; and if these same vessels of the coats of the nerves do not discover their liquors by these experiments, it is far less to be expected, that the much more subtile nerves will discover theirs. 40. The 3d Objection to the doctrine of the brain being a gland, and the nerves its excretories, suppos- es a more rapid motion necessary in the fluid of the nerves, than what most of the defenders of the ner- vous fluid will now allow; and is afterwards to be considered particularly in a more proper place. 41. The 4>ih Objection being, That if nerves are excretories of a gland, they must be cylindrical pipes, in which no obstructions or diseases would happen ; but since we daily see diseases in the nerves, they must therefore not be such excretories. The answer is, That diseases happen often in the excretories of other glands, as of the liver, kidneys, &c. notwith- standing their cylindrical form, and their much short- er and less exposed course. When we consider the very tender substance of the brain, the vast complication of vessels there, the prodigious smallness of the pipes going out from it, the many moving powers which the nerves are to undergo the shock of, and the mauy chances which the vessels, membranes, and cellular substance accompanying the nerves have of being disordered, and then affecting the uervous fibrils, we have very great reason to be surprised, that these cylindrical pipes are not much more frequently putOF THE NEUVES IN GENERAL. 253 out of order, by too great or too small a quantity of liquors; by too viscid or too thin fluids ; by liquors consisting of too mild and sluggish particles, or of too acrid pungent ones; by too great or too little motion given to the liquors; by the diameters of the pipes being too much straitened, or too much enlarged; and by a great many other varieties of circumstances which might be thought capable of disturbing the functions of the nerves, supposing them to be cylin- drical excretories of the gland, the brain. 4-2. The numerous vessels of the encephalon have Fluid se- broueht some of the gentlemen who assert the nerves creted by & o tnt-* en CO** to be solid, to acknowledge, that there is a liquor se- ph.llon uofc creted in the brain : But then they will not allow that poured out this liquor is sent out by the proper nervous fibrils ; into the but that it is poured into the cellular substance in '^"^ which the nerves lie, to keep them moist and supple,s and therefore fit for exerting their elasticity, vibra- tion, &c. by which, in their opinion, the effects com- monly ascribed to nerves are produced. 43. Besides the objections already mentioned (§ 32, 33,) against the nerves acting as elastic strings, this opinion has some other difficulties which may be ob- jected to it: For instance, there is not one analogous- example in the whole body of liquors secreted in a large gland, to be poured into a cellular substance, as is here supposed ; the liquors in the cells of the tela cellularis of other parts are separated from the little arteries which are distributed to these cells. Further, it cannot be imagined, how a liquor se- creted in the cortex ofthe brain should make its way through the medulla, to come out into the cellular membranes on the surface of that medulla. Lastly, A very simple experiment, of injecting wa- ter by the artery of any member, and thereby filling the cellular substance of the nerves of that member, shews evidently, that the liquor of the cellular sub- stance of the nerves has the same fountain as the li- quor has in the tela cellularis any where else, that is, from the little arteries dispersed upon it.OF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. 251 ivrviius fluiJ Fxperi- The doctrine of a fluid in the nerves, is not only ment in h- thus supported by the analogy of the brain and nerves voijr of a to the other glands and their encretories, buttho.se who maintain this doctrine mention an experiment which they think directly proves a fluid in the nerves. It is this : Alter opening the thorax of a living dog, catch hold of and press one or both the phrenic nerves with the fingers, the diaphragm immediately ceases to con- tract ; cease to compress the nerves, and the muscle acts again : A second time, lay hold of the nerve or "nerves some way above the diaphragm, its motion stops. Keep firm hold of the nerve, and, with the fingers of the other hand strip it down from the fingers which make the compression towards the diaphragm, and it again contracts: A repetition of this part of the experiment three or four times, is always attended with the same effects ; but it then contracts no more, strip as you will, unless you remove the pressure, to take hold of the nerves above the place first pinched; when the muscle may again be made to contract, by stripping the nerve down towards it. This experi- ment I have made with the.success here mentioned. Let any one try if he can imagine any other reason- able account of these appearances, than that the pres- sure by the fingers stopped the course of a fluid in the nerve; that so much of this fluid as remained in the nerve, betwixt the fingers and diaphragm was forced into that muscle by stripping, and when it was all pressed away, the fingers above preventing a supply, the muscle contracted no more till the fingers were removed, and a fresh flow by that means was re- ceived from the spinal marrow, or from that part of the nerve which had yet not been so stripped, ©biections ^ ^ias ^een Ejected to the conclusions from this ' experiment, 1. That the diaphragm is set in motion by stripping the nerve from, as well as towards, this mus- cle; and this may be well expected; for a liquor in such small pipes hindered from flowing backwards by ligature, pinching fingers, or even the flow of their li- quors from the fountain, will regurgitate forwards withOF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. 25.3.' velocity, when pressed backwards' We see it happen, in the stalks of tender succulent plants. 2. It is said, that muscles cease to act when their veins are tied, as well as when their arteries or nerves, are tied or cut, but that muscles continue to act when their veins are cut; by which it would appear, that the overloading of the vessels is an impediment to the action of muscles, and therefore the ceasing of their action when their arteries or nerves are tied or cut, may also be owing to the liquor in the branches of these pipes of muscles stagnating when it is not pro- pelled by the flow of more liquor from their trunks, and not to any influence or moving power, which now ceases to be conveyed to them. It is to be observed, in making the experiments just now mentioned, that the contraction of the muscles ceases soonest when the nerves, and latest when the veins are tied. That when veins are tied, not only are the vessels overloaded, but all the cellular substance of the muscles is filled with coagulated'blood ; whereas when the arteries and nerves are tied, the reverse is seen, the muscles are lax and of less bulk. So that in these cases the ceasing of the contraction of the mus- cles seems to depend on very different causes, to wit, a deprivation of necessary liquors in the one, and a redundancy of superfluous blood in the other. An elastic stick may be deprived of its elasticity by be- ing made either too dry or too wet. 45. Some gentlemen, convinced of the reasonable- Two kinds, ness of the secretion of a liquor in the brain to be sent of nerve* out by the nerves, but not comprehending how a fluid oy^^L could have such a rapid retrograde motion as they ima- gined was necessary for, conveying the impressions of objects made on the extremities of nerves to the senso- rium, supposed two sorts of nerves ; one that convey- ed a liquor for muscular motion and nutrition ; the other composed of solid nerves, that were to serve for organs of the senses, to convey the vibrations com- municated from objects to the sensorium. 46. To this opinion (§45.) the objections against Objections the sensatory nerves acting by vibration (§ 32.) may \Division of the nerves 236 OF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. be made ; and there is so little reason to suspect any difference in the texture of the different parts of the brain or nerves, that, on the contrary, the structure is every where similar, and branches of the same nerve often serve both for sensation and motion. How little necessity there is for supposing extreme- ly rapid motions of the nervous fluid, is to be exa- mined soon, 47 The hypothesis of great celerity in the motion of the fluid of the nerves being necessary, gave also bto"arter'i- rise t0 another division of the nerves, into arteries or ous ami ve- effluent, and venous or refluent. It was said, that mus- hous, or cular motion and nutrition depended on the arterious reAu"nt!'ld nerves> and ***** the sensations depended on an ac- celerated motion of the nervous fluid towards the brain, by the impressions which the objects of the senses make upon the venous nerves. By this sup- position the absurdity of rapid fluxes and refluxes in the same canal was prevented, and an advantage was thought to be gained by it, of saving too great a waste of the fluid of the nerves, which otherwise the ence- phalon and spinal marrow could not supply in suffi- cient quantity to answer all the exigencies of life. SnSdered. 48\ To this °Piriion (§ 47') h h"s been objected, 1st, That there is no example in the body of a secret- ed liquor being returned immediately and unmixed to the gland by which it was originally separated from the mass of blood; which would be the case were there venous nerves. 2dly, There is no occasion for saving the fluid of the nerves in the way proposed; the organs for secreting that fluid being large enough to supply all that is necessary of it in the common functions of life.—3dly, If the fluid of the nerves was to be thus kept in a perpetual circulation, it would soon become too acrid for continuing with safety in such sensible tender vessels as those of which the brain and nerves are composed, blhly, This hypothesis will not answer the design for which it was proposed; For though the momentary application of an object might cause an acceleration in the fluid of venous nerves, yet if the object was kept applied to the nerves, it wouldOP THE NERVES IN GENERAL. 257 stop their fluid, so that it could not go forward to the brain; and therefore, according to this doctrine, we should be sensible of no objects except those whose application to the organs of the senses was momenu ry. 49. Let us now suppose it probable, that the ence- Supposed phalon and spinal marrow secern a liquor from the nature of blood which is sent into all the nerves, and that by the ^■nervous' means of this liquor, the nerves perform the offices 1 commonly assigned to them; it is next necessary to inquire what kind of liquor this is, and how it moves, in order to determine how well its nature and motion are fitted for performing what is expected from it. 50. The liquor of the nerves has been fancied by Not acid or some to be of a very strong acid or alkaline nature : alkaline. But since none of our juices appear to be of this sort, and since such liquors irritate and destroy the parts of the body to which they are applied, we cannot con- ceive how the brain can separate, or the nerves could bear any thing of such an acrid nature. This ten- derness and sensibility of these organs must hinder us absolutely from supposing that the liquor of the nerves can be acrid or pungent, or of the nature of spirit of wine, hartshorn, &c. . 51. Some have imagined the liquor of the nerves to Not a very be capable of vast explosion like gun-powder, or of elastic violent sudden rarefaction like air, or of strong ebulli- fluic3, tion like boiling water, or the mixture of acids with alkaline liquors. But as the mass of blood from which this fluid is derived, is not possessed of any such pro- perties, we cannot suppose the bipod to furnish ^vhat it has not in itself. Besides, all these operations are too violent for the brain or nerves to bear; and when j .once they are begun, they are not so quickly con- trouled or restrained, as experience teaches us the nerves can be made to cease from acting*. 52. We are not sufficiently acquainted with the properties of an ceihcr or electrical effluvia pervading every thing, to apply them justly in the animal eco- * For arguments in favour of the elastic nature of the ner* vous fluid, see Pair's New Medic. Diction, vol. I. p. 398. fi.OF THE NERVES IN 6'NEHAC '258 nomy ; and it is as difficult to conceive how they should be retained or conducted in a long nervous cord. These are difficulties not to be surmounted*. Compared ' 53. The surest way of judging what kind of liquor " v vt^r t'lis °^ nerves must uc>is t0 examine the liquors of fluids." similar parts of the body. All the glands separate li- quors from the blood much thinner than the compound mass itself; such is the liquor poured into the cavity ohhe abdomen, thorax, ventricles of the brain, the sali- va, pancreatic juice, lymph, &c. ' Wherever there is occasion for secreted liquors being thick and viscid, in order to answer better the uses they are intended for, nature has provided reservoirs for them to stagnate in, where their thinner parts may be carried off by the numerous absorbent veins dispersed on the sides of those cavities; or they may exhale where the}' are ex- posed to the open air. The mucus of the nose becomes viscid by stagnation ; for, when it is immediately se- creted, it is thin and watery ; as appears from the ap- plication of sternutatories, &c. The cerumen of the ears is of a watery consistence, when just squeezing out. The mucus of the alimentary canal grows thick in the lacunae The bile in the hepatic duct has little more consistence than lymph ; that in the gall-blad- der is viscid and strong. The urine is much more wa- tery as it flows from the kidneys, than when it is ex- creted from the bladder. The semen is thin as it comes from the testicles, and is concocted in the vesiculae se- viinales, &c. An ex- Hence (§ 53.) we may safely conclude, that a tremely thin liquet- is secreted in the cortex encephali and spi- Uiin liquor, nal marrow ; and seeing the thinness of secreted li- quors is generally, as the divisions of the vessels, into small subtile branches, and that the ramifications within the skull are almost infinitely subtile, the li- quor secreted in the encephalon may be determined t« be among the finest or thinnest fluids. * See Monro Nerv. Syst. p. 74. The identity of the nervous fluid with the electric or galvanic power, has been lately revived by the chemical philosophers of the present day. Jours, de Vhys. Germinal, an. xi.of the nerves in general. 259 55. Seeing also that we can observe no large reser- voir, where the liquor secerned in the cortical substance is deposited, to have its finer parts taken off, we have reason to think, that it goes forward into the nerves in the same condition in which it is secerned. 56. By fine or subtile animal liquors, is meant no more than those which are very fluid, and which seem to consist of a large proportion of watery particles, and a lesser one of the oily, saline, and earthy parti- cles. Some of the liquors which we can have in suf- ficient quantity to make experiments with, are so fluid, and have so little viscidity or cohesion of parts, that when laid upon a piece of clean mirror, they eva- porate without leaving a stain ; such is the liquor oozing out from the surface of the pleura, the lymph, and several others. If then these liquors, which are subject to our examination, the secerning vessels of which are so large that we can see them, have such a small cohe- sion of parts, it might not be unreasonable to say, that the liquor of the nerves is as much more fine and fluid than lymph, as the vessels separating it are smaller; and therefore that the fluid of the nerves is a defecated water, with a very small proportion of the other principles extremely subtilized. 57. Two experiments are said to contradict this Object! opinion of the liquor of the nerves being so fluid and answen subtile. One is, that upon cutting the cauda equina of a living animal, a liquor as viscid as the white of an egg drops out: The other is, that a wounded nerve yields a glairy sanies. But these do not appear to be the proper fluid of the nerves; since it is evident, that what is discharged in both these cases, comes out of the cellular substance involving the nervous fibrils. 58. Considering how many experiments make it evident, that there is a constant uninterrupted stream of liquors flowing through all the canals of animals, 'which, convey liquors composed of particles smaller than the diameter of their canal, which is always the case of the nerves in a natural state; it is surprising how it ever could be thought that the liquid of the260 OF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. nerves should be obliged to flow from the brain to each muscle the moment we will; or that this liquor should flow back with the like swiftness from the ex- tremity of each nerve, to which an object of sensation is applied. The nerves, as well as the other excre- tories of the glands, are always full of liquor; the de- gree of distension of the canals not being at all times alike even in a sound state. But this happens without inconvenience, as the sides of the canals have a power of accommodating themselves to the present quantity, unless it is very much above or below the natural standard ; in both which eases diseases ensue. Plows with 59. The motion of the fluid in the nerves is there- a constant fore not only constant, but it is also equal, or nearly motion." S°: F°F' thouSh the blood in the larger arteries is moved unequally by the unequal forces, the contrac- tion of the ventricle of the heart, and the weaker power, the systole of the arteries ; yet the difference between these two moving powers comes to be less and less perceptible, as the arteries divide into smaller branches; because of the numerous resistances which the liquors meet with, and because the canals they move in become larger, till in the very small arterious branches, there is no sensible difference in the velocity of the li quors from the effect of the heart or arteries. The motion of the fluids must still be more equal in the exeretories of glands, and particularly in those where the vessels have divided into very minute branches, and the liquors have no other propelling force, but the heart and arteries, (see § 1); therefore the nervous fluid moves constantly, equally, and slow- ly, unless when its course is altered by the influence of the mind, or by the pressure of some neighbouring active organ. 60. As there is neither proof nor probability of the valves supposed by some in nerves, we are not to as- sume them in accounting for any phenomena. Action of ^e nave 110t' anc* PeinaPs cannot have any the Nerves, idea of the manner in which mind and body act upon each other; but if we allow that the one is affected by the other, which none deny, and that the fluid ofTHE NERVES IN GENERAL. 26l the nerves (whatever name people please to give it) is a principal instrument which the mind makes use of to influence the actions of the body, or to inform itself of the impressions made on the body, we must allow that the mind can direct this instrument dif- ferently, particularly as to quantity and celerity, though we must remain ignorant of the manner how many phenomena depending on this connexion of mind and body are produced. Thus we would in vain attempt to account for animals continuing, after their heads were struck off or their hearts were cut out, to perform actions begun before they, suffered any injury 62. Let us now suppose the nervous fluid such as has been argued for, to wit, a very fluid saponaceous water, moving in a constant, equal, slow stream, from the encephalon and spinal marrow, in each of the pro- per nervous fibres, except when the motion is changed by some accessory cause, such as the mind, pressure of other parts, &c. and Jet us examine how well such a supposition will agree with the phenomena of the three great functions, nutrition, sensation, and muscular motion, which the nerves are principal in- struments of. 63. In general, we may say, that nerves can carry fluids to the most minute part of the body, to supply what is wasted in any of the solids ; that the impreci- sion made by the objects of the senses on the very soft pulpy extremities of the nerves of the organs of the senses, must make such a stop in the equal-flowing nervous fluid, as must instantaneously be perceptible at the fountain-head from which the pipes. affected arise; that the constant flow of the liquor of the nerves into the cavities of the muscular Jibrillw, occasions the natural contraction of the muscles, by the as constant nisus it mukejsto increase the transverse and to shorten the longitudinal diameter of each fibre ; and that it is only to allow the mind a power of determining a greater quantity of this same fluid with a greater velocity into what muscular fibres it pleases, to ac« count for the voluntary strong action of the muscles.*5G2 OF THE NERVES IN GENEUAL. Nntrition by iiK-an- of nerves Coiwiili-l - Sensation. 0'4'. But since such a superficial account would not be satisfactory, it will he expected, that the principal phenomena of these three functions should be explain- ed by the means of such a fluid as has been supposed ; and that the several objections against this doctrine should be answered : Let us attempt this ; and where we cannot extricate ourselves from difficulties which may be thrown in, let us honestly acknowledge igno- rance. 6.5. x If water, with a very small proportion of oils and salts from the earth, proves a fit nourishment for vegetables, such a liquor as the fluid of the nerves has been described ( 56) may not be unfit for re- pairing the waste in animals. p. The slow continual motion of this nervous fluid (§ 58, 59,) to the most minute parts of the body (•§ 10.), is well enough calculated to supply the par- ticles that are constantly worn off from the solids by the circulation of the liquors and necessary actions of life. y. The greater proportional size of the encephalon in young creatures than in adults, seems calculated for their greater propoitional growth: For the younger the animal is, the larger encephalon and speedier growth it has. i. A palsy and atrophy of the members generally- accompanying each other, shew, that nourishment, sensation, and motion, depend on the same cause. e. It was said fj 26.), that the nerves were prin- cipal instruments in nutrition : It was not affirmed, that they were the sole instruments; and therefore an atrophy may proceed from the compression or other lesion of an artery, without being an objection to the doctrine here laid down. 66. a. All objects of sense, when applied to their proper organs, act by impulse ; and this action is capable of being increased by increasing the impelling force. In tangible objects, that is clearly evident ; the closer they are pressed to a certain degree, the more distinct perception ensues. Odorous particles need the assistance of air moved rapidly, to affect ourOP THE NEUVES IN GENERAL. %63 hose : Sapid substances, that are scarcely sufficient to give us an idea of their taste by their own weight, arc assisted by the pressure of the tongue upon the palate: The rays of light collected drive light bodies before them: Sound communicates a vibration to all bodies in harmonic proportion with it. The impulse made thus by any of these objects on the soft pulpy nerves (§ '21.), which are full of (iquor, presses their sides or extremities, and their liquor is hindered from flowing so freely as it did. The canals being all full (is 58.) this resistance must instantaneous- ly affect the whole column of fluids in the canals that are pressed, and their origins, and have the samerffect as if the impulse had been made upon the origin itself. To illustrate this by a gross comparison: Let any one push water out of a syringe, through a long flexible , pipe fixed to the syringe, and he is sensible of resist- ance or a push backwards, the moment any one stops the orifice of the pipe, or closes the sides of it with his fingers. This impulse made on the nerves, and thus communicated to their origin, varies according to the strength or weakness, the quickness or slowness, the continuance or speedy removal, the uniformity or ir- regularity, the constancy or alternation, &c. with which objects are applied to the nerves. 6. Whenever any object is regularly applied with due force to a nerve, rightly disposed to be impressed by it, and is communicated, as just now explained, to the sensorium, it gives a true and just idea of the object to the mind. c. The various kinds.of impulses which the differ- ent classes of objects make, occasion in animals, which ought to have accurate perceptions of each object, a necessity of having the different organs of the senses variously modified, so that the several impulses may be regularly applied to the nerves in e-ich organ; or, - in other words, we must have different organs of tke senses fitted to the different clas ses of objects. d. As the objects have one common property of impulse, so ail the organs have most of the properties of the organ of touching in common with the pajrillocOF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. of the skin. In tlie nose and tongue this is evident: In some operations of the eyes we can also perceive this; as we may likewise do in some cases where matter is collected in the internal ear. e. These properties common to the different objects and organs occasion frequently uncommon effects in the application of an object to an organ proper to another object of sensation ; for sometimes we have the same idea as if the object had been applied to its own proper organ : At other times the object is as it were changed, and we have the idea as if the organ had had its own proper object applied to it. Thus, for example, light is the proper objec t to be applied to the eye, to give us any idea of colours; yet when all light is excluded from the eyes, an idea of light and colours may be excited in us by coughing, sneezing, rubbing, or striking the eye-ball. A cane vibrating, so as not to excite sound perceptible to the ear. applied to the teeth, raises a strong idea of sound ; as a little insect creeping in ihe ?netihts auditorius also does.— The fingers applied to two rough surfaces, rubbing on each other, are sensible of the sound they make; sur- geons of any practice in the cure of fractured bones can bear witness to the truth of this. The fingers dipped in acid and several other acrid liquors, have a sensation very like to tasting. Smelling and tasting, every body knows, are subservient and assisting to each other. From such examples we have further proof of one general cause of our sensations, to wit, impulse from the objects; and of* such a similarity and relation in the organs, as might give reason for imagining that any one of them would be capable of producing the effect of another, if the impulses of the different objects could be regularly applied to each.— Hence light and sound may affect insects and other animals that have not eyes or ears. f. If the impulse of an object is applied with due force, but irregularly, a confused idea of the objec t is raised. Distant objects arc confused to myopes, as very near ones are to presbytae.OF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. 2G5 g. If the application of the impulse he regular, hut the force with which it is applied be too weak, our per- ception of the object' is too faint. One may whisper so low as not to be heard. h. If the application of objects is too violent, and there is any danger of the tender organs of our senses heing hurt or destroyed, an uneasy sensation we call pain is raised, whatever the organ thus injured is. The object of feeling affects every organ : Thus pressure, stretching, cutting, pricking, acrid salts,.pungent oils, great heat, violent cold, &c. occasion pain, wherever they are applied. Besides, every particular organ can he affected with pain by the too violent application of its own proper object. Too much light pains the eyes J very loud sound stuns the ears j very odorous bodies and too sapid objects hurt the nose and tongue. A pretty sure proof this, that the objects of our senses all act, and that the orgails are all impressed in nearly the same way. i. Since a middle impulse, neither too small nor too great, is necessary for a clear perception of objects,' we. should often be in danger of not distinguishing tbem, if we were not subjected to another law, to wit,' that numerous impulses made at once, or in a quick succession to each other, increase our perceptions of objects. Thus, such sound as would not be heard on a mountain-lop, will be distinctly heard in a wainscot- ted chamber. We feel much more clearly a tangible object, when our finger is drawn along it, than when applied with the same force, but by a single pressure, upon it. We make repeated applications of odorous and sapid objects, when we wish to smell or taste ac- curately. The end of a burning stick appears much more luminous when quickly whirled in a circle than when at rest. k. Whenever the uneasy sensation, pain, is raised hy the too strong application of objects, a sort of ne- cessity is as it were imposed upon the mind to endea- vour to get free of the injuring cause, by either with- drawing the grieved part of the body from it, as one retires his hand when his finger is pricked or burnt j N2GG OF THE NERVES IN" GENERAL. or tlic injuring cause is endeavoured to be forced from the body, as a. tenesmus excites the contraction which publics acrid faces out of the rectum. In both these operations, a convulsive contraction is immediately made in the injured part, or in the neighbourhood of it ; and if the irritation is very strong or permanent, the greater part of .the nervous system becomes affected in that spasmodic or convulsive way. Is it this neces- sity which obliges the mind to exert herself in respira- tion, or in the action of the heart, when the lung-; or heart are sorted with blood ? or the iris to-contract the pupil, when the eye is exposed, to strong light? or snee^isg to be performed when the nose is tickled? tScc. Will not a stimulus of any nerve more readily affect those with which it is any where connected than, the other nerves of the body ? May not this sympa- thy serve as a monitor of the mind rather to employ the organs furnished with nerves thus connected, to •Assist in freeing her of any uneasy sensation, than to make use of any -other organs ? Will not this in some measure account for many salutary operations perform- ed in the body before experience Jias taught us the func- tions of the organs performing them ? This nisusvt -the mind to free the body of what is in danger of being hurtful, may serve to explain the phenomena l a great many diseases, when we are ac- quainted with the distribution of the particular nerves j arid from this we can understand the operation of me- dicines that stimulate •, and may learn how, by exciting a sharp, but momentary pain, we may free the body of another pain that would be more durable ; and that, by having itthus in our power to determine a flow of the liquor, ofthe nerves to any particular part, for the be- nefit of that part, or the relief of any other diseased part, we can do considerable service by a right appli- cation of the proper medicines. /. If a pain-giving cause be very violent or long con- tinued, it destroys the organs either irrecoverably, or puts them so much out of order that they only gra- dually recover. Peopit- have been blind or deaf for ■A\ their lives after a >i.^nt effect of light on theirOF THE NERVES IN GENERAL 26? eves, or of sound on their ears ; and we are frequently exposed to so much light and sound as to make us un- fit to see or hear for a considerable time. I would ex- plain this by a ligature put round the tender branch of an herb. This ligature, drawn to a certain degree, may weaken the canals so as to be unfit for the circu- lation of tlie juices a good while, till they are gradually explicated and made firm by these juices : A stricter ligature would disorder the structure of the fibres so much, that the liquors could not recover them. The analogy is so plain, tbat it needs no commentary. Thus the influence of a nerve tied with an artery in the ope- ration of an aneurism may cease for some time, but"be afterwards recovered *. 67. 1. In applying the fluid of the nerves to the Muscular action of muscles, it was said, that the natural or invo- motion. Iuntary contraction of muscles was the nisus which the nervous fluid flowing constantly into the muscular fibres makes to distend these fibrils, by enlarging their trans- verse diameters and shortening their axis; and that voluntary contraction was owing to a greater quantity of that nervous liquor determined towards the muscle to be put in action, and poured with greater momentum into the muscular fibrils, by the power of the mind wil- ling to make such a muscle act, or obliged to do it by ' an irritating pain-giving cause (§ GG. £.) 2. Some object to this account of muscular motion, Objections that if there is no outlet for the liquor supposed to be poured into muscular fibres, muscles would always be m a state of contraction, which they are not; and if there is a passage from the fibrils, the liquor would flow out as fast as it was thrown in ; and therefore no distension of the fibres or contraction of the muscles could be made. 3. In answer to this objection, it is observed, that Answered, notwithstanding the evident outlet from the arteries in- * On the Physiology of Sensation, See Dumas Prin. de Physiol T. II. Cuvier Lec. d'Anat. Comp. T. II. and Bichat Anat. Gener. Disc, prelimin. JC.2G8 OF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. to tlie veins, yot the arteries are distended by the syg* tde of the heart, or any other cause increasing the mo- mentum of the blood. 4. It has been also objected to J 1. that, if it was true, the volume of the muscle in contraction necessa- rily would be considerably increased by so much li- quor poured into its fibrils ; whereas it does not ap-- pear, by any experiment, that the volume of a muscle is increased by its being put into action. 5. To this it has been answered, 1. That when the axes of muscular fibres are shortened, and their trans? verse diameters are enlarged, the capacities of their fibres, and consequently their volume, may not be changed, the diminution one way balancing the increase iri the other. 2. That the spaces between the muscu- lar fibres are sufficient to lodge these fibres when they swell, during the contraction of a muscle, without any addition to its bulk ; and that it plainly appears that these spaces between the fibrils are thus occupied, by the compression which the larger vessels of muscles,, which run in those spaces, suffer during the action of; the muscle *, it is so great as to drive the blood in the veins with a remarkable accelerated velocity. 6. Another objection to the action of muscles being owing to tbe influx of a fluid into their fibrils is, That; muscular fibres are distractile, or capable of being; stretched ; aid therefore, when a fluid is poured into tbeir hollow fibrils, they would be stretched longitu- dinally, as well as have their transverse diameters in- creased j that is, a muscle would become longer, as well as thicker, when it is put into action ; whereas it is certainly known that-a muscle Is shortened while it 7. In answer to this, it has been remarked, That though muscular fibrils are distractile, yet they will not yield to, or be stretched by eveiy force, however small, that might be applied to them. A cord that; can be stretched in length bv the weight of a pound or two, would not yield in the least to an ounce or two and it must likewise be observed, that gradually as any bodv is stretched, its resistance to the stretch-OF THE NERVES IN GENERA^. 269 ing force increases. A rope may be stretched to a certain length by a pound weight appended to it, which would require two pounds to stretch it very little further; and therefore the general observation of ani- mal fibres being distractile, cannot he a reasonable ob- jection to the account of muscular motion above men- tioned, unless a proof is brought that the force which the liquid of the nerves must exert upon each fibre oi a muscle, in order to make it act, is capable oi dis- tracting or stretching the fibres; -which,has not yel. been attempted to be proved. It would appear from, the pain caused by too great an effort of muscles, espe- cially in weak people, that muscular fibres can bear very little distraction without danger of a solution oi\ continuity^ 8. Muscles ceasing to act when their arteries arc tied or cut, and being brought into motion by inject- ing liquors into the arteries even of a dead animal, have been mentioned as objections to the nervous influence causing their contractions. To the first of these experiments it may be answered, That the tying or cutting the nerves sooner produces the effect of making the contraction cease, than stop- ping the influx of the arterious blood does; and it will be universally allowed, that the influx of blood into muscles is necessary for performing their functions right. Whoever observes the motion which injecting wa- ter or any other liquor into the arteries of a dead ani- mal, causes in its muscles, will not compare it to what contraction, whether voluntary or excited by irritation, he may see in a living one. 9. If muscular motion depends on the influx of the nervous liquid, the instantaneous contraction of a mus- cle, when the mind wills to make it act, will be easily understood from the nerves being always full of their liquor (§ 58, 66. a.) 10. If either the nerves of anv muscle do not fur- nish a sufficient quantity of their liquor, or if the fibres of a muscle become too easily distractile, such a muscle will be inactive or paralytic.OF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. 270 11. If too great a quantity of the liquor of the nerved is determined to a mnsele or muscles, bv any cause which the mind cannot command, such muscle or mus- cles will be convulsed. 12. If the motion of the liquid of the nerves is not uniform, but by disease becomes irregular, an alternate relaxation and contraction of muscles may be the con. sequence. Hence trembling palsies, chorea Sanrti viti, ckc. Hence also the convulsive tremors which animals have when they lose much blood. 15. Though the nerves may not furnish so much li-j quor as may be sufficient to make muscles contract with strength enough to overcome the resistances to their actions, yet there may be a sufficient quantity of liquor in the nerves to allow the impressions of objects to be conveyed to the sensorium. This may be one cause of a member's being sometimes sensible alter it cannot be moved. 14. Unless the liquor of the nerves acquires soma energy in the brain, which we have no reason to think the circulation of the fluids in the vessels can give it,i or unless it has other properties than what we can (lis-; cover in it, or unless there be an agent regulating its 'momentum and course to different parts which we are not conscious of j if some of these, t say, do not obtain, the action of the heart continuing.of equal force to pro- pel our liquors, notwithstanding all the resistances that are opposed to it, is not to be explained. 15. All muscles, but especially the heart, continue to contract in an irregular way, after they are cut away from the animal to which they belonged ; which may he owing to the liquors continuing to flow in die small vessels, and being poured irregularly into.the muscular fibrillae. lb*. It is said that a muscle cutout of the body coir4 tinues some time to be capable of contraction ; where-1 as-by tying its arteries or nerves, while it is otherwise entire in the body, it loses its contracting power, which therefore does not depend on these organs, the arteries or nerves-.03T THE NERVES IN GENERAL. 271 The loss of the power of acting when the arteries or herves are tied while the muscle is in the body, is de- Lied by some who made the trial, and it might he ex- pected that the motion of a muscle, would be morn conspicuous where there is no resistance to it, as is the base when it is cut away from all the parts it is con- nected with, than when its connection remains with, harts resisting its contractile efforts. | 17. After the heart, or any other muscle cut away from an animal, has ceased to contract, its contract ion may again be restored, by breathing upon it, or prick- ing' it with any sharp instrument. That heat or prick- ing should, by their stimulus, (§ 56. /?.) occasion con- traction in a living creature, may be understood ; but how they should have the same effect in a muscle se- parated from an animal, I know not *. 6S. Some have thought the ganglions of nerves .(Ganglions. (§ 18, 19, 20.) to be glandular, and that they perform a secretion. Others, from their firm texture, suppose them to be muscular, and that they serve to accelerate the motion of the liquor in the nerves which proceed from them ; but as no proof is offered of either of these opinions, they cannot be maintained. Others would make them serve, 1. To divide a small nerve into many nerves, and by these means to increase the number ot nervous branches. % To make nerves come convenient- ly by different directions to the parts to which-they-be- long. 5. To re-unite several small nervous fibres Into one large nerve. Since no proof is brought that these three things cannot he done without the interposition of a ganglion, but on the contrary, we see them per- formed where there are no ganglions, we must conti- nue to acknowledge ignorance concerning the uses of these knots, the ganglionsT. * On tlie dependence or independence of muscular irritabi- lity on nervous power, see- Whytt's Physiofog. Essays; Monro's Nerv. Syst. p. 9.0; Dumas Piincipes de Physiol. Tom. HI. and the Croonian Lectures on Muscular Motion in the Philos. Transac. E. t On the nerves in general, see Monro's Nerv. Syst. • Soemmering De Basi Enceph ; Prochaska De structur, Nervor. Scarpa Annotat. Academ.; Ludwig Scriplor. Ncurolog, and lh«- Works of Gall and Spurzhcim. E.070 OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. ves. OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. IT is generally said, that there are forty pairs of nerves m all j of which ten come out from the encc- phalcm, and the other thirty have their origin from the Spinal morrow*. Ne?ve °ry °f the t6n pa'rS °f nerves "'!>ich conle from tl)e em*- phaltm, the first is tho Olfactory, which long had the name of the mammillary processes of the brain, because m the brutes, cows and sheep, which were most com- monly dissected by the antients, the anterior ventricles of the brain are extended forwards upon these nerves, and adhere so firmly to them, that they seem to make the upper si/Se of the nerves. Each of them being large, where it begins to be stretched out, and gradu- ally becoming smaller as it approaches the cribriform mm*, ™„ S^vi::ff:™b!e a Tho8e mistook the ventricles for part of the nerves, observing the cavity in them full of liquor, concluded, that these olfactory nerves served to convey the superfluous J moisture of the brain to the holes of the ethmoid bone through which it passed into the nose. But in man, the ventricles of whose brain are not thus extended forwards, these nrrves are small, long, and without any cavity, having their origin from the anpora striata^ t , near the part where the internal carotid arteries are- about to send off their branches to the different parts of the brain ; and in their course under toe anterior- lobes of the brain, which have each a depression made for lodging them, the human olfactory nerves become larger, till they are extended to the cribriform bone ; * It is now, move than ever, an object of dispute, whether what are called the cerebral nerves proceed from the eiicephalon, or terminate in that mass. Modern anatomists difi'er much iifl the number of primary pairs; some reckoning nine, others only eight, as immediately connected with the brain. E. f The origin of the olfactory nerves is still a diluted poinf,. Mid appears not to be distinctly acerlainc.'OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 2/,.' V wlrere they split into a great number of small fila- ments, to pass through the little holes in that bone j and being joined by a branch of the fifth pair of nerves, are spread on the membrane of the nose. The contrivance of defending these long soft nerves from being too-much depressed by the anterior lobes of the brain under which they lie, is singular ; be- cause they have not only the prominent orbitar pro- cesses of the frontal bone to support the brain on each side, with the veins going into the longitudinal sinus, and other attachments bearing it up, but there is a., groove formed in each lobe of the brain itself for them to lodge in. Their splitting into so many small branches before they enter the bones of the skull, is likewise peculiar to them; for generally the nerves come from the brain in disgregated filaments, and unite into cords, as they are going out at the holes of the bones. This contrivance is the best for answering the purpose 'they are designed for, of being the organ of smelling; for had they been expanded upon the membrane of the nose into a medullary web, such as the optic nerve forms, it would have been too sensible to bear the impressions of such objects as are applied to the nose ; and a distribution in the more common way, of a cord sending off branches, would not have been equal enough for such an organ of sensation*. The second pair of nerves, the Optic, rising, from Optic the ihalami nervorum opticorumi, make a large curve Nerrcs- outwards, and then run obliquely inwards and for- wards, till they unite at the fore-part of the sella turci- ca ; then soon divide, and each runs obliquely for- wards and outwards to go out at its proper hole in the sphenoid bone, accompanied with the ocular artery, to be extended to the globe of the eye, within which each is expanded into a very fine cup-like web, that * See Hunter on some parts of the Animal Economy, p. 215,. and Monro Nerv. Syst. p. 14G. Tab. xxiv. E. T Gall and Spurzheim deny this, and think that these nerves arise from the corpora quadrigemina. That this is the case in some quadrupeds they seem to have demonstrated, but they have Bot proved a similar origin in man, E.274 OF THE tAKfiCULAR NERVES. •lines all the inside of the eye as far forwards as the ciliary circle, and is universally known by the name of retina. Though the suhstance of this pair of nerves seems to he blended at the place where they are joined ; yet observations of people whose optic nerves were not joined, and of others who were blind of one eye from a fault in the optic nerve, or in those who had one of their eyes taken out, make it appear that there is no such intimate union of substance ; the optic nerve of the affected side only being wasted, while the other ■was large and plump, And the same observations aie contradictory to the doctrine of a decussation of all the nerves (§ 8.) ; for the disease could be traced from the affected eye to the origin of the nerve on the same- side. In many fishes, indeed, the doctrine of decussa- tion is favoured; for their optic nerves plainly cross oach other, without any union at the part where they are joined in men and most quadrupeds. Those people whose optic nerves were not joined, having neither seen objects double, nor turned their •eyes different ways, is also a plain proof, that the con- junction of the optic nerves will not serve to account for either the uniform motions of our eyes, or our see- ing objects single with two eyes, though it may be one cause of the remarkable sympathy of the one eye with the other in many diseases *;~ Retina. The retina of a recent eye, without any prepara- tion, appears a very fine web, with some blood-vessels coming from its centre to be distributed on it ; but, after a good injection of the arteries that run in the substance of this nerve, as is common to other nerves, it is with difficulty that we can observe its nervous medullary substance. The situation of these vessels in the central part of the optic nerve •, the want of me- dullary fibres here, and the firmness of this nerve be- fore it is expanded at its entry into the ball of the eye, may he the reason why we do not see such bodies, or parts of bodies, whose picture falls on this central part V See Wells on single Vision with two Eyes. E;OF THE SKELETON-. 275 of the retina. An inflammation in those arteries of the^retina, with which several fevers and an opthalmia are generally attended, may very well account for the tenderness in the eyes, and inability to bear the light, which people have in these diseases. The over-.disterr- sion of these vessels may likewise serve to account for the black spots observed on bright-coloured bodies especially, and for that smoaky fog through which all objects are seen by people in some fevers. If these vessels lose their tone, and remain preternaturally dis- tended, no objects affect our retina, though the eye ex- ternally appears sound ; or thisnray be one cause of an amaurosis or gutta serena. From a partial disten- sion of these vessels, or paralysis of a part of the reti- na, the central part, or the circumference, or any other part of objects, may be lost to one or both eyes *.' The Third Pair t rise from the anterior part of the Third Pair. processus annularis %, and piercing the dura mater a little before, and to a side of the ends of the posterior clinoid process of the sphenoid bone, run along the rc~ ceptacula, or cavernous sinuses, at the side of the cp/rip- pium, to get out at the foramina lacera \ after which each of them divides into branches, of which one, af- ter forming a \\tt\e. ganglion, is distributed to the-globe of the eye '7 the others are sent to the musculus rectus jj of the palpebrci, and to the attolltns, adductor, depri- mens, and obliquus minor § muscles of the eye-ball. These muscles being principal instruments in the mo- tions of the eye-lid and eye-ball, this nerve has there- fore got the name of the motor oculi. I have fre- quently observed in convulsions the eye-lids widely opened, the cornea turned upward and outwards, and the eye-balls sunk in the orbit; which well described the conjunct action of the muscles which this pair of * On the termination of the retina, see Monro on the Brain, the Eye, and the Ear, p, 91; and Soemmering Icon. Ccul. Unman. E. f Motores octili, Oculo-muscular nerves. E. \ Tuber annulare. E. jj Levator palpcbrae superiors Alb. E. 3 Obliquus inferior oculi Alb. E«276 OF THIS PARTICULAR. NERVES. nerves serves. The distension of a consilient We branch of tho carotii!, which passes over tin's nerve near its origin on each side, may possibly be the reason of the heaviness in the eye-lids and eyes, after drinking hard, or eating much (c). Fourth The Fourth Pair, which are the smallest nerves of **a*r' any, derive their origin from the back-part of the base of the testes* ; and then making a long course on the side of the annular protuberance, enter the dura muter a little farther back, and more externally than the third pair, to run also along the receptacula, to pass out at the formina lacera, and to be entirely spent on the musculi troc/ilcares, or superior oblique muscles of the eyes. These muscles being employed in performing the rotatory motions, and the advancement of the eve- halls forward, by which several of our passions are ex- pressed, the nerves that serve them have got the name of Pathettci. Why these small nerves should be brought so far to this muscle, when it could have been supplied easily by the motor oculi, I know not t. Fifth. Pair. The Fifth Pair J are large nerves, rising from the annular process where the medullary processes of the cerebellum join in the formation of that tuber, to enter the dura mater near the point of the petrous process of the temporal bones •, and then sinking close by the re- ceptacula at the sides of the sella turcica, each becomes in appearance thicker, and goes out of the skull in three great branches. Opthalmic The first branch of the fifth is~the Opthalmic, nerve. which runs through the foramen lacerum to the orbit, having in its passage thither a connexion with the sixth pair. It is afterwards distributed to the ball of the eye with the third •, to the nose along with the ol- factory, which the branch of the fifth that passes through i\\efora??ien orbitarium internum joins, as was (a) See Zinn Desciipt. Anatom. Oeul. Human, cap. 9. § Tab. iv. fig. 1. E. * Corpora quailiigemina. E. f See Zinn, cap. ix. 5 5. Tab. vi. fig. 1. E. \ Tiigemini, trHaciwles. Spurzheim traces these nerves tc £hc upper part of the corpora olivaria. - E.OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 279 O) Sec Zijin, Tab. vi. fig. 1. jE. already mentioned in the description of the first pair. This opthalmic branch likewise supplies the parts at the internal canthus of the orbit, the glandula lacrijmu- lis, fat, membranes, muscles, and teguments of.the eye-lids ; its longest farthest extended branch passing through the foramen superciliare of the os frontis, to be distributed to the forehead (a). The small fibres which this first branch of the fifth and the third pair of nerves send to the eye-ball, being situated on the optic nerve, and, after piercing the sclerotic coat, running along the choroid coat on the outside of the retina in their course to the uvea or ins, may be a cause of the sympathy between the optic nerve and the uvea; by which we more reaoiiy acquire the habit of contracting the iris, and there- by lessen the pupil, when too strong light is ex- cluded and, on the contrary, enlarge the pupil, when the light is too faint. /This, with the sympathy which must arise from some of the nerves of the membrane of the nostrils, being derived from this first branch of the fifth pair of nerves, may also be the cause, why an irritation of the retina, by too strong light, may produce sneezing, as if a stimulus had been applied to the membrane of the nose itself j—why pressing the internal canthus of the orbit, sometimes stops sneezing j why irritation of the nose or of the eye causes the eye- lids to shut convulsively, and makes the tears to flow plentifully ; and why medicines put into the nose, do often great service in diseases of the eyes. In the me- grim all the branches of the nerve discover themselves to be affected : for the fore-hpad is racked with pain, the eye-ball is pained, and feels as if it was squeezed, the eye-lids shut convulsively, the tears trickle down, and an uneasy heat is felt in the nose. Hence we can understand where external medicines will have the best effect, when applied to remove this disease, to wit, to the membrane of the nose, and to the forehead —why alternate pressure near the superciliary hole of the frontal bone, or sneezing, sometimes gives immediate27S OF THE" PARTICULAR NERvX*. relief in the megrim j—why the sight may be lost by an injury doue to the supra-orbitar branch j—how it may be restored by agitation of that branch of this nerve. Superior The second branch of the fifth pair of nerves may »»*ti*ry be called M axillaris Superior, from its serving principally the parts of the upper jaw. It goes out at the round hole of the sphenoid bone, and sends imme- diately one branch into the channel on the top of the antrum maxillare; the membrane of which and the ripper teeth are supplied by it in its passage. As this branch is about to go out at the firemen orbitarium ex- ternum, it sends a nerve through the substance of the on maxillare to come out at Steno's duct, to be distri- buted to the fore-part of the palate ; and what remains of it escaping at the external orbitar hole, divides into a great many branches, that supply the cheek, upper- lip, and nostril. The next considerable branch of the superior maxillary nerve, after giving branches which are reflected through the sixth hole of the sphenoid bone, to join the intercostal where it is passing through the skull with the carotid artery, and the portio dura ofthe^seventh pair, as it passes through the os petro- sum, is sent into the nose by the hole common to the palate and sphenoidal bone ; and the remaining part of this nerve runs in the palato-maxUlariscana), giving off branches to the temples and pterygoid muscles, and comes at last into the palate to be lost. Hence, the ach in the teeth of the upper jaw occasions a gnawing pain deep seated in the bones of the face, with swelling in the eye-lids, cheek, nose and upper lip j and on the other hand, an inflammation in these parts, or a me- grim, is often attended with sharp pain in the teeth. Hence, an obstruction in the duct of the maxillary sinus, which obliges the liquor secreted there to find out a preternatural route for itself may be occasioned by the pain in the teeth. Hence, the' upper lip often suffers when the palate or nose is ulcerated. Inferior The third or Maxillaris Inferior branch of the maxillary fifth paJr going out at the oval hole of-the sphenoid bone, serves the muscles of the lower jaw, and thetfF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 2?9 muscles situated between the os tiyoides and jaw : AH the salivary glands, the amygdalae, and the external ear, have branches from it : it has a large branch lofet in the tongue, and sends another through the canal in the substance of the lower jaw to serve all the teeth there, and to come out at the hole in the fore-part of the jaw, to be lost in the chin and under-lip (a).— Hence a convulsive contraction of the muscles of the lower-jaw, of the mouth's being involuntarily shut, a great flow of spittal or salivation, a pain in the ear, espe- cially iii deglutition, and a-swelling all about the throat,, are natural consequences-of a violent hritation of the nerves of the lewer teeth in the tooth-ach y and pain in the teeth and ear, is as natural a consequence of an angina. Hence alternate pressure on the chin may sometimes relieve the violence of a tooth-ach. Hence destroying the nerves of a tooth by actual or potentiat cauteries, or pulling a carious tooth, so often removes • immediately all these symptoms. Hence no cure is to be found for some ulcers in the upper or lower jaw, but by drawing a tooth. Hence in cancers of the upper lip, the salivary glands are in danger of being affected, or the disease may be occasioned in the lip by its beginning in the glands. Perhaps the sympathy of the organs of tasting and smelling may in some mea- sure depend on their both receiving nerves from the fifth pair. The Sixth Pair *, which is the smallest except tlic sixth paif. fourth, rises from, the fore-part of the corpora pyrami- dalia t; and each entering the dura maier some way behind the posterior clinoid process of the sphenoid, bone, has a long course below that membrane, and within the receptacitlum at the side of the sella turcica, where it is immersed in the blood of the receptacle , hut for what purpose I am ignorant. It goes after- wards out at the foramen laccrum into the orbit, to serve the abductor muscle of the eye. A defect in (a) Monro's Nerv. Syst. p. 14.9. Tab xxv. E. * Abductor nerve. E -(• From a small band between tlie corpora pyramidalia aad. tlivaria according to Spurzheim. E.280 OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. this nerve may therefore he one cause of a strabismus. Jti the passage of this nerve below the dwa mater, it lies very contiguous to the internal carotid artery, and to the opthalmic branch of the fifth pair of nerves (a). At the place where the sixth pair is contiguous to the carotid, a nerve either goes from each of them in an uncommon way, to wit, with the angle beyond where it rises obtuse, to descend with the artery, a/nd to form the beginning of the intercostal nerve, according to the common description ; or, according to other au- thors, this nerve comes up from the great ganglion of the intercostal, to be joined to the sixth here. The arguments for this latter opinion are, That, according, to the common doctrine, this beginning of the intercostal nerve, as it is called, would rise in a manner not so ordinary in nerves. In the next place, it is observed, that the sixth pair is larger nearer to the orbit, than it is before it comes to the place where this nerve is said to go off; and therefore it is more probable, that it receiites an addition there, rather than gives oft" a branch. Lastly, It is found, that upon cut-/ ting the intercostal nerves of living animals, the eyes plainly were affected ; they lost their bright water ; the gum, or gore, as we call it, was separated in greater quantity j the pupil was more contracted ; the carti- laginous membrane, at the internal canthus, came more over the eye ; and the eye-ball itself was dimi- nished. To this it is answered, in defence of the more common doctrine, 1st, That other branches of nerves go oft* in a reflected way, as well as this does, supposing it to be the beginning of the intercostal ; and that the re- flexion would rather be greater, if it. is thought to come up from the intercostal to the sixth.— l2dlt/, It is denied that this nerve is in general thicker at its fore than its back-part; and if it was supposed to be thickest nearer to the orbit, the con- clusion made above could not be drawn from this ap- pearance, because other nerves enlarge sometimes (a) Zinn. de Ooul. human, cap. 9. § 6. E.OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 281 ■where there is no addition made to them as in the in- stance already mentioned of the trunk of the fifth pair -while below the dura mater. 3dly, The experiments on living animals shew indeed, that the eyes are af- fected upon cutting the intercostal nerve, hut not hi the way which might have been expected, it the in- tercostal hzd furnished such a share of the nerve that goes to the abductor muscle of the eye ; for it might have been thought, that this muscle would have been so much weakened immediately upon cutting the in- tercostal, that its antagonist the udilvclbr would have, greatly prevailed over it, -and have turned the eye strongly in towards the nose ; which is not said to be a consequence of this experiment. So that the Argu- ments are still equivocal; and more observations and experiments must be made, before it can be determined with certainty, whether the sixth pair gives or receives a branch here. In the mean time, I shall continue to speak about the origin of the intercostal with the ge- nerality of anatomists. At this place where the intercostal begins, the fifth Jgwjnff pair is contiguous and adherent to the sixth ; and it ^ tercpsfal~ generally said, that the ophthalmic branch of the fifth nerve> gives a branch or two to the beginning of the inter- costal, or receives such from it. Others deny any such communication between them and those who U&xm the communication confess, that in some sub-, jects they could not see it. After examining the nerves here in a great many subjects, I cannot deter- mine whether or not there are nervous filaments going from the one to the other. Sometimes I have thought that I traced them evidently; at other times I observed that what I dissected for nervous filaments, was col- lapsed cellular substance ; and in all the subjects where I had pushed an injection successively into the very small arteries, I could observe only ,a plexus of vessels connecting the one to the other. In any of these ways, however, there is as much connexion as, we are as- sured from many experiments and observations on other nerves, is sufficient to make a very great sym- pathy among the nerves here. PomtMv the appear-X 282 OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. ance in the eyes of dogs, whose intercostal nerves were cut, might be owing to this sympathy. Seventh The SEVENTH Pair* comes out from the lateral part p*ir. of the annular process, behind where the medullary proce sses of the cerebellum are joined to that tuber; and each being accompanied with a larger artery than most other nerves, enters the internal meatus audito- rius, where the two large bundles of fibres, of which it appeared to consist within the skull, soon separate from each other one of them entering by several small' holes into the vestibule, cochlea, and se?nicircular canals, is stretched on this inner camera of the ear in a very soft pulpy substance ; and being never seen in the form of a firm cord, such as the other parcel of this and most other nerves become,, is called Portio Mollis t of the auditory nerve (o). The other part of this seventh pair passes through Galenas foramen caecum, or Fa Hopius^s aqueduct, in its crooked passage by the side of the tympanum ; in which Dassaee. a nerve sent from the lingual branch of the- inferior naxillary nerve, along the outside of tlie tuba Eustachiana, and cross the cavity of the tympanumt where it has the name of chorda tympani, is commonly said to be joined, to it. The very acute angle which this nerve makes with the fifth, or the sudden violent inflection it would suffer on the supposition of its coming from the fifth to the seventh, appears unusual ; whereas, if we suppose that it comes from the seventh to the fifth, its course would be more in the ordinary way, and the chorda tympani would be esteemed a branch of the seventh pair going to join the fifth, the size of which is increased by this acquisition. This smaller bundle of the seventh gives branches to the * Some modern anatomists regard llie two nerves which have generally been called branches of the seventh pair as distinct jierves having different origins. Spurzheim derives the facinl nerve From the an^le formed between the pons varolii and cor- nu* rctiforme, while he places the origin of the auditory nerve ill the medullary streaks on the surface of the fourth ventricle. ¥.. f Acoustic or auditory nerve. E. fa-) See an admirable representation of the distribution of the portio mollis, in Scarpa De Auditu et Olfactu. E,OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 283 muscles of the malleus, and to the thira mater, while it passes through the bony crooked canal, and at last comes out in a firm chord named Portio Dura *, at the end of this canal, hetween the styloid and mastoid processes of the temporal bone, giving immediately filaments to the little oblique muscles of the head and to those that rise from the styloid process. It then pierces through the parotid gland, and divides into a great many branches, which are dispersed in the muscles and teguments that cover all the side of the upper part of the neck, the whole face and cranium * as far back as the temples, including a considerable part of the external ear. Its branches having thus a considerable connexion with all the three branches of the fifth pair, and with the second cervical, occasion a considerable sympathy of these nerves with it. Hence, in the tootbach, the pain is sometimes very little in the affected tooth, compared to what it is all along the side of the head and in the ear. Hence probably the relief of the toothach from blisters applied behind or before the ear. or by » brtf; iron touching the ontiheliv of the ear. By this communication or connexion possibly too it is, that a vibrating string held between one's teeth, gives a strong idea of sound to the person who holds it, which no body else can perceive. Peihaps too the distribution of this nerve occasions the head to be so quickly turned upon the impression of sound on our ears. The Eighth Pair f of nejvrs rise from the lateral Eighth bases of the corpora, olivaria in disgregated fibres; andP*11, as they are entering the anterior internal part of the holes common to the os occ/piiis a>ul tcmporum, each is joined by a nerve which ascends within the dura mater from the tenth of the head, the first, second and inferior cervical nerves : This every body knows has the name of the Nervus Acct.ssoRlus. \'Vhen.the two get out of the skull, the accessoriusseparates fkom the eighth, and, descending obliquely outwards, passes through the * "Fftci sympatheticus rmnar. E. | far vagum, Putuaio-gHstricus. 1"..284 OF THE. PARTICULAR NERVES. stemo-mastoideus muscle, to which it gives branches, and afterwards terminates in the trapezius and rhom- boid muscles of the scapula. In this course it is ge- nerally more or less joined by the second cervical nerve. Why this nerv«, and several others which are distributed to muscles, are made to pierce through muscles, which they might Have only passed near to, 1 do not know. piSv°»"»eal Ti,elarSe eighth pair, soon after its exit, gives nti-vcJ* nerves * to the tongue, larynx, pharynx, and ganglion -of the intercostal nerve, and being disjoined from the ninth and intercostal, to which it adheres closelv some way, runs straight down the neck behind the internal jugular vein, and at the external side of the carotid ar- tery. As it is about to enter the thorax, a large nerve goes off from the eighth of each side: This branch of the right-side turns round from the fore to the back part of the subclavian artery, while the branch of the left-side tuijns round the great curve of the aorta, and both of them mounting up again -at-^he .side of the oesophagus, to which they give branr.bfts, are lost at Recu rrent Jasj jn the larynx. These are called the RECURRENT nerves, which we are desired to shun in the operation of bronchotomy, though their deep situation protects them sufficiently. The muscles of the larynx being in a good measure supplied with nerves from the re- currents, it is to be expected, that the cutting of them will greatly weaken the. voice, though it will not be entirely lost, so long as the superior branches of the eighth pair are entire. Why the recurrent nerves rise so low from the eighth pair to go round a large ar- tery, and to have such a long course upwards, I know not. The eighth pair, above, and at or near the place where the recurrent nerves go off from it, or frequently the recurrents themselves, send off small nerves to th pericardium, and to join with the branches of the in lercostal that are distributed to the heart ; but thei size and situation are uncertain. * Glosso pliaryngei. E.©F THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 285 After these branches are sent ofF, the par tfagum on each side descends behind the great branch of the tra- chea, and gives numerous filaments to the lungs, and some to* the heart in going to the oesophagus. The one of the left-side running on the fore-part of the oesopha- gus, communicates by several branches with the right one in its descent to be distributed to the stoniach : The right one gets behind the oesophagus, where it splits and rejoins several times before it arrives at the stomach, to which it sends nerves ; and then being joined by one or more branches from the left trunk, they run towards the celiac artery, there to join into the great semilunar ganglion formed by. the two inter- costals (o). From the distribution of this par vagum, we may learn how tickling the fauces with a feather or any such substance, excites a nausea and inclination to vomit;—why coughing occasions vomiting, or vomit- ing raises a cough. Hence we see how the nervous. asthma and the tussis convulsiva, or chincough, are at- tended with a straitening of the glottis;—why food difficult to digest occasions the asthma to weakly- people ; and why emetics have frequently cured the asthma very speedily ;—why an attempt' to vomit is sometimes in danger of suffocating asthmatic people ; —why the superior orifice of the stomach is so sen- sible, as to be looked on as the seat of the soul by some —why people subject to distension's of the stomach, have so often the sensation of balls 411 their breasts and throats j—why the globus hystericus is so often attended with a violent strangulation at the glottis, Sfc. The Ninth Pair * of nerves comes from the in- Niitth ferior part of the corpora pyramidalia, to go out of the skull at their proper holes of the occipital bone. After their egress they adhere for some way firmly to the eighth and intercostal ; and then sending a branch, that in many subjects is joined with branches of the («") Sec Walter Tab. nervor. Thorac. et Alxlomin. E. * Hjj-wglossi, linguales. E.286 OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. first and second cervical nerves, to be distributed to the thyroid gland and muscles on thd fore-part of the tracltea aricria, the ninth is lost in the muscles and substance of the tongue (a). Some have thought this nerve, and others have esteemed the third branch of the fifth pair of nerves, to be the proper gustatory nerve. 1 know no observation or experiments to prove either opinion, or to assure us, that both nerves do not serve for tasting and for the motion of the tongue. May not the distribution of this nerve to the muscles below, as well as above, the os hyoides, contribute to their acting-more uniformly in depressing the lower jaw or head ? .i • The Tenth Pair * rises in separate threads from the sides ot the spinal marrow, to go out between the os occipiiis and. Jirst vertebra of the neck. After each of them has given branches to the great ganglion of the intercostal, 8th, 9th, and 1st cervical nerves, it is distributed to the straight, oblique, and some ot the extensor muscles of the head. Whether the name of the tenth of the head, or of the first vertebral, ought to be given to this pair of nerves, is of no such con- sequence as to deserve a debate, though it has some of the marks of the spinal nerves, to wit, its being formed of filaments proceeding from both the fore and back- part of the medulla, and a little ganglion being formed where these filaments meet. Intercostal In the description of the sixth pair, I followed the nerves. usual way of speaking among anatomists, and called that the beginning of the Intercostal t nerve which comes out of the skull ; and therefore shall here sub- join a cursory description of this nerve, notwithstand- ing its much larger part is composed of nerves coming («) Monro, TSTerv. Syst. p. 151. Tab. xxvi. E. * .Sub occipitales. E. f Smypatheticus major vel tris planchnicus alior. Bichat and other modern anatomists have remarked so many important dif- ferences between the branches of the sympathetic and the other nerves of the body, that they have been disposed to consider the former as a distinct part of the nervous system. In fact, it is composed of filaments from almost all the spinal, and many of the cercbrat nerves. E.OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 287 wilt from the spinal marrow. There is no greater incongruity in point of method to say, that the nerve •we are describing receives additions from others that have not been described, than it is to repeat .in the description of a great many nerves, "that each of them gives branches to form a nerve of which we are igno- rant 5 which is all the difference between describing the intercostal before or after the spinal nerves. The branch reflected from the sixth pair, joined possibly by some filaments of the opihabnic branch of the fifth, runs along with the internal carotid ar- tery, through the crooked canal formed for it in the temporal -bone, where the little nerve is very soft and pappy, and in several subjects divides and unites again, and is joined by one or more branches from the filth, particularly of its superior maxillary branch, before it comes out of the skull. May the compres- sion of this nerve by the carotid artery when stretched during- the -systole, contribute to the diastole of the Jiea'rt? - As soon as the nerve escapes out of this bony canal, it is connected a little way with the eighth and ninth; then separating from these, after seeming to receive additional nerves from them, it forms a large ganglion, into which branches from the tenth of the head, and from the first and second cervical, enter. From this ganglion the nerves come out again small to run down the neck along with the carotid artery, communicating by blanches with the cervical nerves, and giving nerves to the muscles that bend the head and neck. As the intercostal is about to enter the thorax, it forms another ganglion, from which nerves are sent to the traehea and to tire heart those de- signed for the heart joining with the branches of the eighth, and most of them passing between the two great arteries and the auricles, to the substance of that muscle. The intercostal after this consisting of two branches, one going behind, and the other running over th.e fore-part of the subclavian artery, forms a new ganglion where the two branches unite below that artery, and then descending along the sides of288' OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. the vertebrae of the thorax, receives branches from each of the duisal nerves ; which branches appear- ing to cdtne out between the ribs, have given the name of intercostal to the whole nerve. Where the addition is made to it from the fifth dorsal nerve, a branch goes off obliquely forwards j which being joined by such branches from the sixth, seventh, eighth, and ninth dorsal, an anterior trunk is formed, and passes between the fibres of the appendix ma- culosa of the diaphragm, to form, along With the other intercostal and the branches of the eighth pair, a large similunar ganglion, situated between the coeiiac and superior mesenteric arteries j the roots ot which are as it were involved in a sort ot nervous net- work of this ganglion, from which a great number ot v^rv small nervous threads run out to he extended on the surface of all the branches of those two arteries, so as to be easilv seen when any of the arteries are stretched, but not to be raked from them by dissec- tion ; and thus the liver, gall-bladder, duodenum^ pancreas, spleen, jejunum, ilium, and a large share ot the colon, have their nerves sent from this great solar tansMon or plexus. May the peristaltic motion of the intestines depend in some measure on the passage of the intercostal nerves through the diaphragm? S-veral fibres of this ganglion, running down upon the "aorta, meet with other nerves sent ^om the Pos- terior trunk of the intercostal, which continues i s course along the sides of the vertebra,! they supply the vlamhdae renales, kidneys, and testes m men, or ovaria in women J and then they form a network upon the inferior mesenteric artery where the ner es of the two sides meet, and , accompany the branches of this artery to the part of the colon that lies in the left skle of 7the belly, and to the rectum, as far down is to the lower part of the pelvis. The intercostal continuing down by the side of the vertebra, of the loins, is joined by nerves coming fiom between these vertebra*, and sends nerves to the organs of generation and others in the^, being even join-OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 289 ed with those that are sent to the inferior extremi- ties (a). The almost universal connexion and communication which this nerve has with the other nerves of the bod)', may lead us to understand the following, and a great many more phccnomena :—Why tickling the nose causes sneezing.—Why the too great quantity of bile in the cholera occasions vomiting as well as purging.— Why people vomit in colics, in inflammations, or other irritations of the liver, or of the ducts going from it and the gall bladder.—Why a stone in the kindneys, or ure- ters, or any other cause irritating those organs, should so much more frequently bring on vomiting and other disorders of the stomach, than the stone, or any other stimulating cause in the bladder does.—Why vomiting is a symptom of danger after child-birth, lithotomy, and other operations on the parts in the pelvis.—Why the obstructions of the mc?iscs are capable of occasion- ing strangulations, belchings, colics, stomach-aches, and even convulsions in the extremities. Why vesica- tories, applied from the ears to the clavicles of children labouring under the tussis convt/lsiva *, are frequently of great service. Why worms in the stomach or guts excite an itching in the nose, or grinding of the teeth. Why irritations in the bowels or the belly occasions sometimes universal convulsions of the body. The spinal nerves rise generally by a number ofSpinal disgregated fibres from both the fore and hack-part 0fuerves' the medulla spinalltSj and soon after form a little knot or ganglion, where they acquire strong coats, and are extended into firm cords. They are distinguished by numbers, according to the vertebra from between which they come out ; the superior of the two hones forming the hole through which they pass, being the one from which the number is applied to each nerve. There are generally said to be thirty pairs of them : seven of which come out between the vertebra of the neck, (a) Sec Girardi <lc nervo intercostali in Ludwig. T. Hi. p. 78, Wiisberg de nervis viscer. abdomin in J,udwig. T. iv. p. 50 and Monro Ncrv. Syst. p. 141. Tab. xxi. E. * Pertussis or liooping-cougbi E. O290 OF THE PAMTICULAR NERVES. twelve between those of the Zw./r, five between those of the loins, and six from the false'vertebrae. First cervi- The First Cervical pair of nerves comes out be- cal. tween the first and second vertebrae of the neck ; and having given branches to join with the tenth pair of the head, the second cervical and intercostal, and to serve the muscles that bend the neck, it sends its lar- gest branches backwards to the extensor musics of the liead and neck ; some of which piercing through these muscles, run up on the occiput to be lost in the tegu- ments here j and many fibres of it advance •so far for- ward as to be connected with the fibrils of the first branch of the fifth pair of the head, and of tbepwtio dura of the auditory nerve.—Hence possibly it is that a clavus hystericus changes suddenly sometimes from the forehead to a violent pain and spasm in the back- part of the head and neck. The Second Cervical is soon joined by some Sccondcev branches to the ninth-of the head and intercostal, and to the first and third of the neck,; then has a hu e branch that comes out at the exterior edge of the sta m- mastoideus muscle, where k joins with the accessornis of the eighth pair 5 and is afterwards distributed to the plafysma myoides * teguments of the side of the neck and head, parotid gland, and external ear, being con- nected to the portin dura of the auditory nerve, and to the first cervical. The remainder of this second cervical is spent on the levator scapulce and the exten- sors of the neck ami head. Generally-a large branch is here sent off to join the accessorius of the eighth pair, near the superior angle of the scapula. To th- irritation of the branches of this nerve it probably is owing, that, in an inflammation of the par- jflM gbmd, the neck is pained so far down as Lie cla- vicle the head is drawn towards the shoulder of the ar- • fecte'd side and the chin is turned to the other sme- lt! opening the external jugular vein, no operator can promise not to touch some of the cutaneous branches of this nerve with the lancet j which occasions a sharp * LatissimiiB colli. Alb. E;OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 291 pricking pain in the meantime, and a numbness of the skin near the orifice for some time after. The Third Pair of the neck passes out between the Third cer- third and fourth cervical vertebrae', having immediate- vical- ly a communication with the second, and sending down a branch, which being joined by a branch from the fourth cervical, forms the Phrenic nerve. This des- Pbrenic. cending enters the thorax between the subclavian vein and artery ; and then being received into a groove formed for it in the pericardium, it has its course along this capsula of the heart, till it is lost in the middle part of the diaphragm. The right phrenic has a straight course ; but the left one is obliged to make a consider- able turn outwards to go over the prominent part of the pericardium, where the point of the heart is lodged. Hence in violent palpitations of the heart, a pungent • acute pain is felt near the left orifice of the stomach. The middle of the diaphragm could scarcely have been supplied by any other nerve which could have had ich a straight course as the phrenic has. If the sub- clavian artery and vein have any effect upon this nerve I do not know it («). The other branches of the third cervical nerve are distributed to the muscles and teguments at the lower part of the neck and top of the shoulder. No \;onder then that an inflammation of the liver or spleen, an abscess in the lungs adhering to the diaphragm, or any other cause capable of irritating the diaphragm, should be attended with a sharp pain on the top of the shoulder, as well as wounds, ulcers, &c. of this muscle itself. If the irritation of this muscle is very violent, it may occasion that convulsive contraction of the diaphragm which is called an hiccough; and therefore an hiccough in an inflammation of the liver has been justly declared to he an ill symptom. An irritation of the thoracic nerves which produces sneezing, may sometimes free the phrenic nerves from any spasm they occasion ; so that sneezing sometimes takes away the hiccough ; and a derivation of the fluid («) Sec Wrisbcrg dcnerv. pbreinc. in Ludwig, T. iv. p. 16. E.202 OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. of the nerves any other way may do the same thing : Or the hiccough may also he sometimes cured, hy drawing up into the nose the smoak of burning paper or other acrid fumes, swallowing pungent or aromatic medicines, and by a surprize, or any other strong ap- plication of the mind in thinking, or in distinguishing objects : Or, when all these have failed, it has been put away by the brisk stimulus of a blistering platster applied to the baek. Fourth The Fou rth Cervical nerve, after sending off that cervical. l,ranch. which joins with the third to form the phrenic, and bestowing twigs on the muscles and glands of the neck, runs to the arm-pit, where it meets with the Fifth, Sixth, and Seventh ccrvicals, and First Dor- sal, that escape in the interstices of the musculi scalcni, to come at the arm-pit, where they join, separate, and rejoin, in a way scarcely to be rightly expressed in words; and, after giving several considerable nerves- to the muscles and teguments which cover the thorax,, they divide into several branches, to be distributed to i all the parts of the superior extremity. Seven of; these branches, I shall describe under particular names. Scapt:lar. 1. Scapularis runs straight to the cavitas semilu-- nata of the upper casta of the scapula, which is a hole in the recent subject by a ligament being extended! from one angle of the bone to the other, giving nerves- in its way to the muscles of the scapula. W hen it has- passed this bole, it supplies the supra-spinatus muscle;, and then descending at the anterior root of the spine of the scapula, it is lost in the other muscles that lie on the dorsum of that bone. Articular. 2. Articularis sinks downwards at the a-xilla, to get below the neck of the head of the os humeri, and to mount again at the back-part of it; so that it al - most surrounds the articulation, and is distributed to the muscles that draw the arm back, and to those that raise it up. Cutaneous. o. Cutaneus runs down the fore-part of the arm near the skin to Avhich it gives off branches ; and then divides on the inside of the fore-arm into severalOF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 293 nerves, which supply the teguments there, and on the palm of the hand. In opening the basalic vein of the arm, at the ordinary place, the same symptoms are sometimes produced as in opening the external jugular Vein, and from a like cause, to wit, from hurting a branch of this cutaneous nerve with the lancet. 4. Musculo-Cutaneus, orperforans Casseri, passes Muscnlo- through the coracobrachial muscle ; and after sup- cutaneus. plying the biceps-flexor cubiti and brachiceus interims, passes behind the tendon of the biceps, and over the cephalic vein, to be bestowed on the teguments on the outside of the fore-arm and back of the hand. This nerve is sometimes hurt in opening the cephalic vein, and causes pain and numbness for a short time (a). 5. Muscularis * has a spiral course from the axilla, Muscular under the os humeri, and backward to the external part of that bone, supplying by the way of the extensor muscles of the fore-arm, to which it runs between the two brachcei muscles, and within the supinator radii longiis. At the upper part of the fore arm, it sends off a branch, which accompanies the supinator longus till it comes near the wrist, where it passes obliquely over the radius to be lost in the back of the hand and fin- gers. The principal part of this nerve pierces through the supinator radii biwis, to serve the muscles that ex- tend the hand and fingers, whose actions are not in- jured when the supinator acts (b). 6. Ulnaris is extended along the inside of the arm, Tjlnaris., to give nerves to the muscles that extend the fore-arm and to the teguments of the elbow : Towards the lower part of the arm, it slants a little backward to come at the groove behind the internal t condyle of the os hu- meri, through which it runs to the ulna: In its course along this bone, it serves the neighbouring muscle; and teguments-, and as it comes near the wrist, it de- taches a branch obliquely over the ulna to the back of the hand, to be lost in the convex part of several fiu- (a) Monro New. Syst. p 356. Tab. xvi. Ei * Spiral; Radial of Winslow. E. (b* Monro New. Syst. p. 156- Tub. xvi, E. ■f Ulnar condyle. II.OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. ,894 gers. The larger part of the nerve goes straight for- ward to the internal sine of the os pisiforme of the wrist; where it sends off a branch which sinks under the large tendons in the palm, to go cross to the other side of the wrist, serving the mvsculi iumbr kales and intirossei, and at last terminating in the short muscles of the thumb and fore-finger. What remains of the ulnar nerve, after supplying the short muscles of the little- finger, divides into three branches ; whereof two a:-c extended along the sides of the sheath of the tendons of the flexors of the little finger, to furnish the concave side of that finger; and the third branch is disposed in the same way upon the side of the ring-finger next to the little-finger. When we lean or press on the internal condyle of the os humeri, the numbness and prickling we fre- quently feel, point out the course of this nerve. 1 have seen a weakness and atrophy in the parts which I men- tioned as supplied by this nerve, after a wound in the internal lower part of the arm (a). Radial. 7. Radialis * accompanies the humeral artery to the bending of the elbow, serving the flexors of the cubit in its way; then passing through the pronator radii teres muscle, it gives nerves to the muscles on the fore-part of the fore-arm, and continues its course near to the radius, bestowing branches on the circum- jacent muscles. Near the wrist, it sometimes gives oft' a nerve which is distributed to the back of the hand, and the convex part of the thumb and several of the fingers, instead of the branch of the muscular. The larger part of this nerve, passing behind the annular ligament of the wrist, gives nerves to the short mus- cles of the thumb ; and afterwards sends a branch along each side of the sheath of the tendons of the flexors of the thumb, fore finger, mid-finger, and one branch to the side of the ring-finger, next to the middle one, to be lost on the concave side of those fingers (b). (a) Monro Ncrv. Syst. p 156. Tab. xvi. E. * Median ofTViriislow. E. . (b^> Monro Nerr. Syst. p. 138. Tub. xviii. E.295 OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. Thouoh the radial nerve passes through the pronator tauscle, °and the muscular nerve seems to be still more unfavourably placed within the supinator brevis ; ye the action 0ftbese,muscles does not seem to have any effect in hindering the influence of these nerves, tor the - finders or hand can be bended while pronation is per, forming vigorously, and they can be extended while supination is exercised. The manner of the going off of these nerves ot the finders, both'from the ulnar and radial, is that a single -branch is sent from the trunk to the side ot the thumb and little-linger farthest from the other 'fingers J and all the rest are supplied by a trunk of a nerve which splits into two some.Way before it comes as far as-the end of the metacarpus, to run along the sides ot riitie- rent fingers that are nearest to each other. It might have been observed, that, in describing the posterior branches of the ulnar and muscular nerve, 1 did not mention the particular lingers, to the convex part of which they are distributed. My reason for this omission is, the uncertainty of their distribution ; for though sometimes these posterior branches go to the same fingers, to the concave part of which the anterior branches of the ulnar and radial are sent, yet frequent- ly they are distributed otherwise. The situation of these brachial nerves in the axilla, may let us see, how a weakness and afthphv may be brought on the arms by long continued pressure or crutches, or such other hard substances on tbifjm't ; and the course of them from the neck to the arm may teach us, bow much better effects ' vesicatories, or sti- mulating nervous nu:dicines would have, when applied to the sk;n, covering the transverse processes of the vertebrae of the neck, or at the axilla, than when they are put between the shoulders, or upon the spinal pro- cesses, in convulsions or palsies of the superior extre- mities, where a stimulus is required. The Twelve Dorsal nerves of each side, as soon as Dorsal' they escape from between the vertebrae, send a branch nerves* forward to join the intercostal, by which a commu- nication is made among them all ; and they soon like-OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 296 wise glve branches backwards to the muscles that raise the trunk of the hotly, their principal trunk being ex- tendedoutwards to come at the furrow in the lower edge of each rib, in which they run towards the ante- rior part of* the thorax, between the internal and exter- nal intercostal muscles, giving off branches in their course to the muscles and teguments of the thora.v. First. _ The First dorsal, as was already observed, is par- ticular in this, that it contributes to form the brachial nerves ; and that the two branches of the intercostal, which come down to the thorax, form a considerable ganglion with it. Six Lower. ^ The Six lower dorsal nerves give branches to the diaphragm and abdominal muscles. Twelfth. The Twelfth joins with the first lumbal-, and be- stows nerves on the musculus quadratus lumborum, and iliacas intemus. May not the communications of all" these nerves be one reason, why the parts they serve act so uniformly and conjunctly in respiration, and conspire together in the convulsive motions of coughing, sneezing, &c.— The twitching spasms that happen sometimes in dif- ferent parts of the muscles of the abdomen, by an irri- tation on the branches of the lower dorsal nerves, are in danger of occasioning a mistake in practice, by their' resemblance to the colic, nephritis, &c. The commu- nications of these lower ones with the intercostals, may • • serve to explain the violent effort of the abdominal muscle in a tenesmus and in child-bearing. As the intercostal is larger in the thorax than any where else, and seems to diminish gradually as it as- cends and descends, there is cause to suspect that this is the trunk from which the superior and inferior pain:, are sent as branches. Lumbar The Five Lumbar nerves on each side commun.i- aierves. , cate with the intercostal and with each other, and give branches backwards to the loins. First. The First communicates with the last dorsal, sends branches to the abdominal muscles, to the psoas and. iliacusv and to the teguments and muscles on the fore-OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 297 part of the thigh j while its principal branch joins with the other nerves, to form the crural nerve. The Second Lumbar nerve passes through the psoas Second an.l muscle, and is distributed nearly in the same way as th"d. the former : as is also the Third. Branches of the second, third, and fourth, make up obturator. one trunk, which runs along the fore part of the pelvis; and passing in the notch at the fore-part of the great hole common to the os pubis and ischium, is spent on the adductor muscles, and on the teguments on the in- side of the thigh. This nerve is called Obturator or Posterior Crural Nerve. . By united branches from the first, second, third, and *™*™r fourth lumbar nerves, a nerve is formed that runs along cluld ' 'the psoas muscle, to escape with the external iliac ves- sels out of the abdomen, below the tendinous arcade of the external oblique muscle. This nerve, which is named the Anterior Crural, is distributed princi- pally to the muscles and teguments on the fore-part of the thigh. A branch, however, of this nerve runs down the inside of the leg to the upper part of the foot, keeping near to the vena saphcena; in opening of which ■with a lancet at the ancle, the nerve is sometimes hurt, aud occasions sharp pain at the time of the operation, and numbness afterwards. The remainder of the fourth lumbar and the fifth join in composing the largest nerve in the body; which is soon to be described. Whoever attends to the course of these lumbar nerves, and of the spermatic vessels and nerves upon the psoas muscle, with the oblique passage of the ureter over that muscle, will not be surprised, that when a stone is passing in this canal, or even when it is in- flamed, the trunk of the body cannot be raised erect, without great pain ; or that the skin of the thigh be- comes less sensible, and the thigh is drawn forward, and that the testicle often swells and is drawn convul- sively towards the ring of the abdominal muscles. The Six Pairs of the false Vertebra consist Six pairs of each of small posterior branches sent to the hips, and false verie- of large anterior branches. *iae*298 ov the Particular nerves. Sciatic. Tho, first, second, and third, after coining thrcn; h the three upper holes in the fore-part of the os sacrum, join together with the fourth and fifth of the loins, to form the largest nerve of the body, which is well known by the name of Sciatic or Ischiatic nerv« i This, after sending huge neives to the different paits of the pelvis, and to the external pints of generation and the podex, as also to the muscles of the hips, passes behind the great tuber of the os ischium, and t!;c u over the quadragemini muscles to run down near to the-- bone of the thigh at its back-part, giving off nerves to the neighbouring muscles and teguments. Some wpt above the ham, where it has the name of thepoplitacus nerve, it sends off a large branch that passes over the fibula, and sinking in among the muscles on the ante- rior external part of the leg, runs down to the foot, to be lost in the upper part of the larger toes, supplying the neighbouring muscles and teguments every where in its passage. The larger branch of the sciatic, after giving branches to the muscles and teguments about the ham and knee, and sending a large cutaneous nerve down the calf of the leg, to be lost at last on the outr side of the foot and upper part of the lesser toes, sinks below the gemellus muscle, and distributes nerves to the muscles on the back of the leg ; among which it continues its course, till passing behind the internal. mcdleolus, and in the internal hollow of the os calcis, it divides into the two plantar nerves: The internal of which is distributed to the toes in the same manner that the radial nerve of the hand serves the concave side of the thumb and fingers ; and the external plan- tar is divided and distributed to the sole of the foot and toes, nearly as the ulnar nerve is in the palm of the hand, and in the concave part of the fingers. Several branches of these nerves, that serve the r«- fcrior extremities, pierce through muscles. By applying what was said of. the nerves in general to the particular distribution of the nerves of the info- rior e.v(re??iities, we may see how people with frac- tured legs, especially where there are splinters, should lie subject to convulsive startings of tbe fracturedOF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. 209 member. Why, upon tying the blood vessels in an amputation of the leg, the patients 'should sometimes complain of violent pain in their toes ;—why such patients should also be troubled with startings ;—why, for a considerable time after the amputation of the diseased limb, when the suppuration is well advanced, they should complain of pain in the sore which occa- sioned the amputation. The Fourth, which, with the two following, is Fourth, much smaller than the three superior, is soon lost in the vesica urinaria and intent'i'.num. .rectum. The Fifth comes forward between the extremity Fifth, o: the os sacrum and cocajgis, to be distributed princi- pally to the levatores ani. The Sixth, which some think to be only a produc- Sixth, tion of the dura mater, advances forward below the broad shoulders of the first bone of the os coccygis, and is lost in the sphincter ani and teguments covering it. The branches of the four last cervical nerves, and of the first dorsal, which are bestowed on the superior ex- tremities, and the two crurals, with the sciatic, which are distributed to the inferior extremities, are much larger proportionally to the parts they serve, than the nerves of the trunk of the body, and especially of the viscera, are ; and for a very good reason, that in the most common necessary actions of life, a sufficient quantity of fluid, on which the influence of nerves seems to depend, may be applied to the muscles there, which are obliged to perform more frequent and violent contractions than any other parts do. The size of the nerves of the inferior extremities seems larger proportionally than in the superior extremities; the inferior extremities having the weight of the whole bodv to sustain, and that frequently at a great disad- vantage. What the effect is of the nerves here being injured, we see daily, when-people happen, by sitting wrong, to compress the sciatic nerve, they are inca- pable, for some time after, to support themselves on, the alVected extremity-. And this is still more remark-300 OF THE PARTICULAR NERVES. able in the sciatica or hip-gout, in which the member is not only weakened, but gradually shrivels and wastes (a). (a) On those nerves, see Schmidt Comment, de Nerv Lum- bal, and Fischer Desciipt. Anatom Nerv. Lumbal. Sacral, et Extremit inferior. For a more minute account of the particular nerves, see Wins- low Expo*. Anat. des Nerfs; Bell's Anatomy, vol. ii'i. ; Bichat Anat. Descript. torn. iii.; and Ludvvig Scriptor. Neurolo^. passim. E. End of the Anatomy of the NERVES,THE DESCRIPTION OF THE HUMAN LACTEAL SAC AND DUCT. ^w&receptacnlum c/iglio? Pecquet, or saca/s lacteus of Van Home, is a membranous somewhat pyriform bag, two thirds of an incb long, one third of an inch over in its largest part when collapsed ; situated on the first vertebra of the loins to the right of the aorta, a little higher than the right emuIgent artery, behind the right inferior muscle of the diaphragm : it is formed by the union of three tubes, one from under the aorta, the second from the interstice of the aorta and cava, the third from under the emulgens of the right side. The lacteal sac, becoming gradually smaller towards its upper part, is contracted into a slender membranous pipe, of about a line diameter, which is generally named the Thorac ic Duct. This passes betwixt tbe mus- cular appendices or inferior muscles of tbe diaphragm, on tbe right of, and somewhat behind the aorta; then, being lodged in the celluiar substance behind the pleura, it mounts between the aorta and the vena a-zygos as far as the fifth vertebra of the thorax, where it is hid by the azygos, as this vein rises forwards to join the302 OF THE LACTEAL SAC AND DUCT. descending or superior cava; after which the duct passes obliquely over to the leftside behind the assopka- gt/s, aorta descendens, and the great curvature of the aorta, until it reaches the left cartoid artery ; behind which, on the left side of the (esophagus, it runs to the interstice of the first and second vertebra of the thorax, where it begins to separate from the carotid, stretching farther towards the left internal jugular vein by a cir- cular turn, whose convex part is uppermost. Ac the top of this arch it splits into two for a line and a half j the superior branch receiving into it a large lympha- tic vessel from the cervical glands. This lymphatic appears, by blowing air and injecting liquors into it, to liaye few valves. When the two branches are again united, the duct continues its course towards the inter- nal jugular vein, behind which it descends, and, im- mediately at the left side of the insertion of this vein, enters the superior posterior part of the left subclavian vein, whose interna! membrane duplicated, forms a semilunar valve that is convex externally, and covers two-thirds of the orifice of the duct ; immediately be- low this orifice, a cervical vein from the muscali sca- le/;/' enters the subclavian. The coats of the sac and duct are thin transparent membranes ; from the inside of which, in the duct, small semilunar valves are produced, most commonly in pairs ;.which are so situated as to allow the passage of liquors upwards, but oppose their return in an op- posite course. The number of these is generally ten or twelve. This is the most simple and common course, situa- tion, and structure of the receptoculttm chyli and thora- cic duct; but having had occasion to observe a variety in these parts, of different subjects, I shall set down the most remarkable of them. The sac is sometimes situated lower down than in the former description ; is not always of the same di- mensions ; is not composed of the same number of ducts ; and frequently appears to consist of several small cells or ducts, instead of being one simple cavil\.OF THE LACTEAL SAC AND DUCT. 305 The diameter of the duct is various in most bodies, and is seldom uniform in the same subject; but fre- quently sudden enlargements or sacculiof. it are observ- able. The divisions which authors mention of this duct are very uncertain. I have seen it divided into two, whereof one branch climbed over the fore-part of the aorta at the eighth vertebra of the thorax, and at the fifth slipped behind that artery, to join the other branch which continued in the ordinary course. The,precise vertebra, where it begins to turn to the left side, is also uncertain. Frequently it does not split ?«t its superior arch •, in which case a large sac is found near its aper- ture into the subclavian vein. Generally it has but one orifice .though I have seen two in one body, and three in another : Nay, sometimes it divides into two, under the curvature of the great artery ; one goes to the right, another to the left subclavian vein ; and I have found this duct discharging itself entirely into the right subclavian. The lymphatic vessel which enters its superior arch, is often sent from the thyroid gland (<*>. Is not the situation of the receptacitlum chrjh so much nearer the muscular appendices of the diaphragm in men than in brutes, designed to supply the disad- vantageous course the chyle must otherwise have in our erect posture ? Do not the descent of the end of the duct to the subclayian vein, and the opening of the-lymphatic into the top of the arch, contribute to the ready admission, of the chyle into that vein ? (n) See Cruicksliank's Auafcomy of the absorbent Vessels, &INDEX. Abductor nerves, 279. Aceessory nerve, 283. Acetabulum of osea innominata, 157. Analysis, chemical, of bones, II, 12. Phenomenon from it, 12. Acoustic or auditory neive, 282. Apophyses, their different sorts, uses, 19. Many so named are epiphyses, 20. Appendices, vid. Epiphyses. Arm-bone, vid. humeri os. Arthrodia, 32, 34. Articular nerve, 292. Articulations, 30. Symphysis, ib. Synarthrosis, 31. Diar- throsis, 32, 34. Dispute concerning them, 32.. Astragalus. 222. Its articulation, 223. Of Children, 224- Atlas, or the fu st vertebra of the neck, 152 ; of infants, 154. Axis or third vertebra colli, 158, B. Blood, motion of within the head 259. Bones, what. 4. Their plates, 5. Fibres claviculi, ib. can- celli, 6. Arteries, 7. Veins, 8. Nerves, ib. Circulation of their liquors, nourishment, increase, decrease, 9. Plrae. nomena and diseases 9, 16. Transverse canals, 10. Lon- gitudinal ones, ib. Analyses 12. Periosteum internum and marrow, ib. Distinguished into broad and round, 17. Strength increased by being hollow, ib. Processes, 19. Cavities, 20. Epiphyses. 21. Ossification, 22. Pheno- mena, 27. Articulations 50. Breast-bone, vid. Sternum Bregma 67 Broad bones their structure 17 C. Calcis os, 224. Of Children 225 Cancelli of bones 6. Corrugatf, cribriformes, reticularis, uses, i't. Cnnini denies 118 Carpus consist^ of eight bones 195. Its figure, substance, articulation, motions 198. Uses; of infants 199.INDEX. Cartilages, what; their plates, fibres 33 Vessels ibid. Nerves 39. Osification, how prevented ibid. Their uses, diseases 40 Cavities of bones, their different kinds 20 ; nses ibid. Cervical vertebrae, their distinguishing marks 151. Atlas, 152. DentaU 154. Axis 158, Seventh ibid. Cheek-bones, vid. Malarum ossa. Clavicles, 174. Internal end 175. Body, ibid. External end, medullary vessels, substance, articulation, 170'. Of children ; uses 177 Claviculi of bones, perpendicular, oblique, headed, crooked 5. Goccygis os, 148. Its first bone, ibid. Its 2d, 3d, 4t!i boucs, 149. Substance, motion, diseases, uses 150 Collar-bone, vid, Clavicle Coronal suture 50 Cortical part of the encephalon most vascular 239 Costas, vid. Ribs Cranium, its figure 47. Surfaces 48, Tables, diploe 9. Consists of sis proper, 50. and two common bones 80 its sutures 50 Crural nerves, anterior 297 posterior ibid Cubitus, vid. Fore-arm Cuboides os, 226. At the Birth 227 Cuneiforme os, of the wrist 195 Cuneiformia ossa, of the foot, externum 227. medium inter- num 228. At the birth ibid. Cutaneous nerve 292. D. Dentata, or 2d vertebra of the neck 134. its distinguishing marks ibid. ; of infants 136 Dentes, vid. Teeth Diart! 54. Its three species, Enarthrosis ibid. Ar- throdia. Ginglimus ibid. Djgiti, vid. Fingers and toes Diploe of the skull 49 Dorsal vertebras, their distinguishing marks 159. Wherein they differ from each other 141. E. • Enarthroses. 52, 54 Epiphyses 21. Several have epophvses ibid. Their uses, ibid. Ethmoidal suture 54 Ethmoides os. Its cribriform plate 80. Nasal plate 81. Cel- lulaj, ossa spongibsa ibid. Connexion, uses 82. Morbi phenomena ; of a child 85 Extremities inferior, consist, each, of thigh 206. leg 251. foot 221 superior, 171. consist, each, of shouWet ibid: Arm 182. Fore arm 187. Hand 195. Uses 206.307 INDEX. F. Face, 90. Composed of upper jaw, 91. Lower jaw, 108. Female skeleton, distinguishing marks of it, 255. Femoris os, 206. Its upper end, 207. Body, 208. Lower end, 209. Of infants, its articulation and motions, 2!0. Fibula, its upper end, 2I t. Body, 215. Inferior end, 217. Its articulation, uses, ibid. ; of infants, 218. Fingers, their bones, phalanges, 204, 1st,, ibid, id, 3d, 205. In- dicis, of middle, annular, little linger, 206. Fontanelle, 67. Foot, composed of tarsus, 221. Metatarsus, 229. Toes, 231. Its motion, 228. Fore arm, 187. Consists of Ulna, ibid. Radius, 190. Frontal "bone, 57. Its external -surface, processes ibid. Cavi- ties, 58. Foramina, ibid. Internal surface, 60. Foramen, 61. Substance, sinuses, ibid. Connexion, 63. Uses; of children 64s G. Ganglions, nervous, 243, 271. Ginglimus, its species, 52, 35. Glosso pharyngeal nerves, 284.' Gomphosis, 31. Hand, 193. Consists of carpus, ibid. Metacarpus, 20©; Fingers, 204. Harmonia, 31. Haunch-bones, vid. Ilium ossa. Head, consists of cranium, 47. Face, 90. Its motions, 136". Heel-bone, vid. Calcis Os. Hip-bone, vid Ischium Os. Humeri os, 182. Its upper end, ibid. Body, lower end, 184. Substance, articulation, motion, 186. Of children, 187. Hyoides os, 122. Its body, ibid. Cornua, Appendices. 123. Ligaments, substance, connexion, uses; of children, 124. Hypoglossi nervi, 2S3. Jaw, lower, vid. Maxilla inferior. ■ upper, vid. Maxilla superior. Ilium ossa, 151. Spine, dorsum, 152. External surface, ibid. Interior surface, 153. Medullary vessels, substance; of a child, 154. Incisores dentes, 1!7. Innominata ossa, 151, Composed of os ilium, ibid. Ischium, 154. Pubis. 156. Their great foramen, 157 Acetabu- lum, ibid. In infants, 159. Connexion, ibid. Phenomena, Uses. 160. Intercostal,nerves, 281, 286. Ischium os, 154. Process, depressions, tuber, substance, 155. Of infants, 156.308 INDEX. L. Lambdoid suture 50. Its addiiamcnla, ibid. Lattice-work of bones, vid. Caneelli. Leg, composed of Tibia, 211. Fibula, 214. Rotula, 218. Its articulation and motions, 220. Ligaments, 36. Their fibres, ibid. Vessels, nerves, ibid. Dis- eases, 37. Uses, phenomena, 38. Linguales nervi, 285. Lumhar vertebras, their particular structure, 141. Differences 143. Lunare os, 195. M. Magnum os of the wrist, 197. Malarum ossa, their processes 95. Holes, substance, connexion 96. Of infants 97. Marrow, what 13. Its chemical aualysis, ibid [ts arteries, veins nerves 14. Diseases 15. Trunsverse and longitudinal canals for conveying it 10. Uses 15. Phenomena and diseases 16. Maxilla inferior 108. The chin, sides, base 109. Phenomena, angles, processes, Foramina 110. Substance, Articulation 111. Motions 112 Of infants, uses 113. .—i superior consists of 15 bones 91. Their connexion ibid. MaxiliariaoNsa their processes 97. Cavities 98. Foramina 99. Sinuses 100. Morbid phenomena, Substance, connexion 101. Uses; of children 10'^. Maxillary nerve, inferior 278. • — superior, ibid. Medulla cerebral, fibrous 240. Metacarpus, composed of four bones 200. Substance, at the birth, articulation, ibid. Figure, uses, digiti indicis, Medii 201. Annularis, minimi 202. Metatarsus, composed of five bones, Pollicis 250. 1, 2 ibid. 3, 4, 231. Digiti, ibid. Molares dentes 118. Motion, muscular 267 Motores oculi nervi 275. Mucilaginous glands 41. Liquor secreted by them 42. Their cellular substance, vessels, nerves, diseases 43. Uses, Phw- nomena. ibid. Muscular spiral nerve 295. Musculo cutaneous nerve, 292. M. Nasi ossa, their sides 93. Connexion, uses ; of an infant 94. Naviculars os, of the tarsus Neck, vid. Cervical vertebrae. Nerves, fibrous texture of, 241. Extreme tenuity, ibid. Coats, ibid. Vessels 242. Inelastic, ibid. Ramification 243. tSargUoiis, ibid. Extreme fibrils pulpy, ibid. Not con-309 INDEX. founded 244. Morbid changes, ibid 245. The instruments of sensation and motion 214. Objections answered 245. Action of. how produced 247. Arterious aud venous 256. Cerebral 272. Spinal 289. Cervical, 290. Dorsal 295. Lumbar 296 Nervous action, hypothesis of, 247. Vibration, ibid. Nervous fluid 249 Nervous fluid, source of, 255. Nat ure of, 257. Compared with other secreted fluids 258. Motion 260 Nutrition, nervous, considered 2^2 O Obturator nerves 297 Occipitis os 74. It external surface, Processes, ibid. Internal surface 77. Holes, ibid. Substance 78. Connexion, Uses, in infants 79 Olfactory nerves 272 Opthalmic nerves 276 Optic nerves 275 Ossification of bones 22 Accounted for from particular dispo- sition of vessels, and from pressure 24. Phenomena 25, 27 Its history 28 Osteogenea, its history 28. Of what use 29 P Palati os 102. Its square palate plate, ibid. Pterygoid Pro- cess 103. nasal lamella, Orbitar process 104. Substance, connexion, uses, of children ; diseases 105 Par vagum nervorum 283 Parietal bones, their external surface 64. Internal surface 65 Substance, connexion, uses 66; of children 67. Practical observations concerning bregma, ibid. Patella, vid. Rotula Pathetic nerves 276 Pelvis 150. Consists of os sacrum, 144. Coccygis, 148. Ossa innominata 151 Perichondrium, its vessels 58 Periosteum externum, I. Its fibres, ibid. Arteries, -reins, nerves 3. Uses, ibid. Diseases 5 internum, its structure 12. Uses 15 Phalanges of the fingers 204 ' toes, 231 Phrenic nerves, 29L Pisitbrme os of the wrist 195 Plates of bones, their fibres 5 Pollicis manus ossa, vid. Thumb ■ pedis ossa, vid. Toes Pores transverse and longitudinal of bones, 6, 10 Portio dura of the seventh pair of nerves 285 Portio mollis, 282 Processes of bones, vid. Apophyses Pubis os 156. Substance; of children, 157.INDEX. 310 R Radial nervi 29^ Radius* Us upper end. 190; Body, ibid. Lower aid 191. Of children, articulation 192 Rec'eptacalum eliyli 501 Recipient nerves 284 Retina 274 Ribs 161. Their middle posterior eud ibid. Anterior end, sub- stance, cartilageslb'5. Articulation ami motion 164. Differ from ench other, ibid. Distinguished into true and false 1>5. Distinguishing marks of the 1st, 2d, 3d, 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, lltii, 12th, 166'. 167. Of infants 168. Motion 221, 227 Rotula described 2i8. Its substance 219. Articulation; of Children 220 Round bones, their structure 17. Strength, how increased, ibid. S Sacrum os, its body 144'. Processes, oblique, transverse 145. Spinal, ibid. Foramina 146. Substance, articulation, uses; of children 147 Sagittal suture 52 Scaphoid bone of the wrist 194 Scapula 177. Its base, inferior costa 178. superior costa, dor- sum, anterior surface, processes, spine 179. acromion, coracoid process, third process 180. Medullary vessels, substance, ar- ticalation 181 Uses of children 182 Scapular nerve 292 Sehyndelesis 51 Striatic nerve 238 Sensation 262 Sesamoid bones, how formed 252. Where to be found, ibid. Share bone, vid. Ossa pubis Shoulder consists of clavicle 174. and scapula 177 Shoulder-blade, vid- Scapula Sinus frontalis 61. Sphenoidal 89. Maxillary 100 Skeleton, natural artificial 45. Situation of the bones 46. Di- vided into head 47. Trunk 124. Extremities superior 174. Inferior 206 of a female, its differences from that of the male 255 Skull, vid. Cranium Sphenoid bone 85. its external surface, processes, ibid. Cavities 85. Internal surface, ibid. Holes proper 87. Common 88. Sinuses 89. Substance, connexion, ibid. Uses ; of children 90 Sphenoidal suture 54 Spine, its shape 124. Consists of true vertebra, ibid, and false 144 Spongiosa inferiors ossa 105. Their substance, connexion, uses; of childreu 106INDEX. 311 Spongiosis supcTiora ossa SI Smutinous sutures 52. How foimcd 53 Sternum 168. Its substance 169. First bone, second bone 170 Xiphoid cartilage, Diseases 171 Connexion ; of children ; uses, motion 172 Sub occipital nevves 286 Sutures 51, How formed, ibid. of the cranium 50. Coronal, lambdoid,. ibid. Sagittal, 52. Squamous, ibid. Ethmoidal, sphenoidal, transverse, zy- gomatic 54. Uses 55 . of the face, distinguished by names 92. Uses 95 Sympathetic nerves, great 286 ksser 282 Symphysis, divided into synchondrosis, syneurosis, syssarcosis 50 Synarthrosis, divided into suture, harmonia, goniphosis, schyn- delesis 51 Synchondrosis 30 Syneurosis 51 Synovia of joints, what composed of 42. Its uses, diseases 45 Syssarcosis 31 T Tarsus consists of seven bones 221. Its articulation 222. Uses 228 Teeth 113, their base, roots, periosteum, substance 14. Canak, vessels 115. Formation, shedding 116. Con- nexion, uses 117. Distinguished into incisoies ibid. Canini molares 113. Pbasnomena 120 Temporal bones 68. Their external surface, processes ibid. Cavities 69- Holes 70. Internal surface 71. Processes cavities, , holes 72. Substance, connexion, uses ; of in- fants 73 ' Thigh-bone, vid Fcmoria os Thoracic duct 501 Thorax 160. Consists of vertebrae 124. Ribs, 161. Ster- num 163. Its motion 172 Thumb consists of three bones ; the first, its articulation, 205. At the time of bit lb. ibid. Second bone ibid, its articulation 204. Third bone ibid Tibia, its upper end, cartilages 211. Body 212. Lower end 214. Articulation; of children ibid Toes 215. differ from the fingers, uses; of children 252 Transverse suture 54 Trapezium os, 196 Trapezoides os, ibid. Tnquetra ossa 51 Trocheidos CJinglimus 53 Trunk of the Skeleton, consists of the spine 124. Pelvis 150. Thorax 160 Turbinata ossa, vid. Spongiosa.INDEX. 3112 V Ulna, its upper md 187. Body, Lower end 189, articulator of Children 190 Ulnar nerve 295 Unciforme os of the wrist 197 Unguis ossa, their surfaces 94-. Substance, connexion, uses Morbid Phajiiomcna ; of children 95 V V Vertebra? Cervical, vid. Cervical 1 Dorsal, vid. Dorsal false, composed of or sacrum 144. Coccygis 148 Lumbar, vid Lumbar true 134. Their bodies, cartilages 125. Processes ligaments, foramina 127- Articulations, phenomena 127" Of infants 129. Diseases, ibid Divided into cervical 151 Dorsal 159. Lumbar 141. Uses, secured from luxations 145 Vessels of periosteum 5 of the bones 7. of the marrow 14. o. ligaments 5b'. cartilages 58. mucilaginous glauds 41 Vibration, nervous, considered 247 Vomer 106. Its figure, situation 107. Substance, connexion uses 108 W Women, the differences of their bones from those of men 255 Wormiana ossa, vid. Triquetra Wrist, vid. Carpus X Xiphoid cartilage 171. Its diseases, ibid. Z Zygoma 68 Zygomatic s iture 54. FINIS. vr. Aiichlson.rrinlcr, 1S7, High Street.