473 CARNIVORA. posterior aspect is generally small, directed backwards, and separated by a strong occipital crest from the anterior parts of the skull. From this, in many instances, a strong, elevated, me- dian crest passes forwards, which is remarkably short in the lion, the white bear, the hyena, the badger, and many others. It is remarkable that in many of the Phocidas this crest does not exist, whilst in other species it attains a con- siderable size. The orbit and the mimense temporal fossa are confounded in one great excavation; the zygomatic arch is perfect and of considerable size. The anterior opening of the nares is large, and directed forwards, ex- cepting in certain seals, in which it is placed almost vertically, for the obvious purpose of facilitating its exposure to the atmosphere when these animals come to the surface to breathe. A remarkable peculiarity exists in this order, in the existence of a bony process arising from the internal surface of the occipital and parietal bones, and separating the lobes of the cerebrum from the cerebellum. This process, of mode- rate size in the dogs, is much larger in the seals, and still more developed in the cats. In the dogs it is considerable from before backwards, but small from side to side; it is formed by the parietal and the squamous portion of the occipital. In the seals the parietal bone is not concerned in its formation ; in the cats, on the contrary, it entirely arises from this bone, not being at all connected with the occipital. The object of this bony tentorium is obviously to support the different portions of the brain, and prevent their pressing upon each other during the sudden and violent movements of the ani- mal, when springing upon its prey or leaping with great violence. With regard to the substance of the bones of the cranium in this order, although it may be observed generally that they are of a medium degree of thickness and solidity, there are re- markable exceptions in some of the seals, in which they exhibit an extreme degree of tenuity, the object of which, in reference to the medium in which the seals reside, and the necessity of often rising to the surface to breathe, is suffici- ently obvious. Ill the cats and other genera, ■where extraordinary and sudden exertion is frequently necessary, the bones altogether are found to be remarkably compact and solid. A few details of the structure of the indivi- dual bones composing the cranium will be necessary, in order to shew how admirably every portion is made to bear upon the general objects of the whole organization. frontal bones, (Jig. 192, 193, 194, e,) which, as in most other instances, are separate, have a considerable developement of the zygo- matic or external angular process, especially in those whose habits are preeminently carnivorous, as in the cats, the inustelidce, &c. In the ichneu- mons it even extends so far as to meet the orbi- tary process of the malar bone, and thus form a complete orbitar circle ; the cats exhibit an approach to such a formation, but in the other tribes it is less and less marked, and in the seals there is scarcely the vestige of this process to be perceived. The parietal bones(f) are of a quadrate form; they are early united in the mustelae, the cats, the hyenas, and the bears; in the dogs and in the seals, &c. they remain more durably separated. The interparietal bone, as it is called, (a large OS triquetrum,) which is found in many ani- mals, particularly during the young state, is considerable in the dogs, in which it remains permanently distinct from the parietal and oc- cipital. Its form in these is that of an elon- gated triangle, which extends forwards, sepa- rating the two parietal bones for more than half their length. In this instance it proceeds from a single point of ossification, whilst in many of the rodentia it arises from two centres of developement. The crest which is formed along the median line of the cranium, at the junction of the parietal bones, and which forms a continuation forwards from the ridge of the occipital, is greatly developed in the older cats and others. The lion and tiger, the wolf and the bear, the badger and many others, exhibit it in an extraordinary degree. Its object is evidently to afford a strong and extended sur- face of attachment to the powerful temporal muscles, which are required to be enormously developed for the purpose of cutting and tearing in pieces the hard tendinous portions of the animal's prey. The temporal bone (g) is divided, as in the other mammalia, into a cranial or squamous, and a petrous or acoustic bone. The former constitutes the posterior and superior portion of the zygomatic arch, and beneath tiie root of this process is situated the articular cavity for the reception of the condyle of the lower jaw. Its transverse form, and the depth of its ante- rior and posterior boundaries, afford a strong and secure hold of the condyle, which, whilst it thus moves freely within its limited sphere of action, is restricted from any other than a simple hinge-like motion. This circum- stance adds greatly to the power of this parti- cular kind of mastication. The squamous portion is but small, and is externally more or less convex. The acoustic portion is greatly developed in the cats, and still more so in the seals, a circumstance which will be further alluded to hereafter. The occipital bone varies much in the car- nivora. In the seals the superior or squamous portion is large, obtusely triangular, and much flattened, being in many species devoid of the strong occipital ridge which is so prominent a feature in all the other families of the order. In the cats this process is very prominent and strong, forming a solid attachment for those powerful muscles which are necessary for the forcible and even violent raising of the head in tearing the prey to pieces. It is also strongly marked in most of the Ursida, particularly in the white bear, the badger, the coati, &c. The inferior portion, answering to the cuneiform process, is in the seals remarkably broad and thin, much more so than in any other of the mammifera; and in this part there is in some species of that family an oval hole of consi- derable size, placed near the inferior margin of the J'orumen magnum. This exists only in cer-