91 AMPHIBIA. of groups having more striking distinctive cha- racters, there is not, perhaps, a more interesting and satisfactory instance in tlie whole range of the animal creation than is afforded us in the class of amphibia: a circumstance which can only be fully appreciated by following out the structure of each system of organs, first as it exists temporarily in the tadpole, and ultimately in its permanent condition in the perfect animal. The class has been variously divided into groups according to the different views of the naturalists by whom they have been arranged. The division adopted by many zoologists of the present day, according to the mere presence or absence of the tail in the perfect state, is not only liable to the objections which belong to all merely dichotomous arrangements, but appears to be far less natural and less consistent with the physiological characters of the groups than that which may be derived from the absence or presence and the duration of the branchiffi. Thus the frogs and toads, which in the adult state have not the vestige of a tail, and the salamanders and tritons, which retain that organ through life, all agree in the early possession of branchia, which are subsequently lost and replaced by true lungs, and in un- dergoing consequently a total change in the medium of their respiration; whilst the pro- teus and the siren retain their branchioe, with lungs, (rudimentary at least,) and probably throughout life possess synchronously the two- fold function of aquatic and atmospheric re- spiration. The amphiuma and menopoma have not as yet been observed to possess branchioe at any period of their existence, though further observations are necessary to warrant the con- clusion of an absolute non-existence of a meta- morphosis in these genera. It appears to me that no one arrangement hitherto given sufficiently distinguishes the different forms ; and I venture to propose the following modifications as more consistent with the diversities of structure in the different groups. Class Amphibia. Order 1.—Ampiiipneurta. Body elongate, formed for swimming. Feet either four, or two anterior only. Tail com- pressed, persistent. Respiration aquatic by means of branchia?, throughout life, co-existing with rudimentary lungs. Branchise external, persistent. Eyes with palpebroe. Genera, Proteus., Sircdon, Menohranchus, Siren, Pseudobranchus. Order 2.—Anoura. Body short and broad. Feet during the tad- pole state wanting; afterwards four, the hinder ones long and formed for leaping. Tail before the metamorphosis, long, compressed ; after- wards totally wanting. Ribs wanting. Ver- tebra; few and anchylosed. Tympanum open. Respiration at first aquatic by branch ite ; after- wards atmospheric by lungs. Branchiae at first external, but withdrawn within the chest before the metamorphosis. Impregnation effected ex- ternally during the passage of the ova. Genera, liana, Hyla, Ceratophri/s, Bufo, R/dnella, Otilopha, Ductylethra, Bombinator, Breviceps. Order 3.—Ueodela. Body long, slender. Feet always four. Tail long, persistent. Ribs very short. Respi- ration at first aquatic by external branchia;, afterwards atmospheric by cellular lungs. Ver- tebrae numerous and moveable. Tympanum concealed. Impregnation internal. Genera, Salamandrina, Salamandra, Molge. Order 4.—Abranchia. Body long, formed for swimming. Feet four. Cranium solid. Tail compressed. Respi- ration by means of lungs only : branchice none. No metamorphosis known. Genera, Menopoma, Amphiuma. Order 5.—Apoda. Body elongate, slender, anguiform. Feet none. Tail very short, almost wanting. Lungs one larger than the other. (The existence of branchiae at any period of life unknown.) Ribs very short. Sternum wanting. Ears concealed. Impregnation unknown, probably internal. Genus, Cacilia. I. Osteology.—The changes which take place in the habits and formation of these animals, in their passage from the tadpole or pisciform state to their adult and permanent condition, are not confined to any one system of organs or of functions. The skeleton, the organs of motion, of sensation,and of digestion are not less the subject of these changes than those of respiration and circulation : it will, therefore, be necessary, in treating of each system of organs, to describe not merely their structure in the perfect state, but the less advanced grade of organization from which they emerge in passing from the condition of a fish to that of a reptile. In the adult state, however, they are found to vary considerably in the form and composi- tion of the skeleton, according to their habits, and to the existence or absence of a tail. The principle of compensation, or, in other words, the extreme developement of one set of organs at the expense of another, which is so often seen to take place in every form of animals, is here strikingly illustrated. In the frogs, whose movements on land, from their feeding chiefly on terrestrial prey, are necessarily ex- tensive, we find the hinder legs developed to an extraordinary degree, for the purpose of enabling them to take enormous leaps, by which they not only seek or pursue their prey at a distance from the water, but rapidly escape from danger, and rapidly regain their place of refuge in the nearest pond or rivulet. As it is evident that a long tail and a generally elongated body, with a flexible spine, would be not only useless but inconsistent with these habits, we find these animals absolutely tail-