274 AVES. energetic respiratory and circulating functions occasion so rapid an evolution of the osseous system, that the bones of the cranium become at an early period anchylosed into one piece, with a total obliteration of tlie original har- moniee; it is necessary, therefore, to examine the sIluII of the Bird at an early period of ex- istence, and to compare it with the foetal con- dition of the skull of the Mammal, when it will be found to be ossified from analogous centres, which, in their expansion and subsequent union, obey the same lawa of, as it were, elective attraction. The occipital heme is originally composed of four pieces; the basilar, below, (a, Jig. 126,) the two condyloid, laterally, (b, b,) and the expanded spinous process, or supra-occipital piece above (e). These fulfil the usual functions of the occipital bone, protecting the cerebellum and medulla oblongata, and form- ing the medium of connection between tlie cranial and cervical vertebne. The head is articulated to the spine by means of a single hemispherical tubercle (*, ftg. 126,) which plays in a corresponding cavity of the atlas. In most birds the tubercle is formed exclusively by the basilar piece of the occipital bone, but in the Ostrich and Penguin the condyloid portions also contribute to its formation, which is an approximation to the structure of the occipital condyle in the Chelonian reptiles. In all birds, however, the articulation is such as to allow of a much greater extent and freedom of motion to the head than exists in the Mammalia. Tlie temporal hone consists of \h&petrov,s por- tion, the squamous portion, (d, d,fig. 126, 127) and the tympanic bone, or os quadratum (e.) Tlie petrous bone includes the complex parts of the internal ear, and is soon anchylosed to the condyloid portions of the occipital bone, which fulfil the functions of the mastoid pro- cesses. The squamous, or, as it may be termed, the zygomatic portion of the temporal bone (d) remains for a longer time separate; it forms the lateral boundary of the cranial cavity, as in quadrupeds, and the tympanic element is move- ably articulated to its inferior part. rhe parietal bones (f,f, fg- 127) retain their separated condition till after the union of the occipital pieces, they then unite and protect the posterior part of the cerebral hemispheres. The sphenoid bone is composed of a basilar portion, (g,fig. 126,) two orbital plates, (h,jig. 127,) forming the floor and part of the septum of die orbits, and which mpidly anchylose with the preceding; two cranial portions, or alas ma- jores, (g, fig. 127, 128,) which remain longer separate, and form the posterior part of the or- bits, and two pterygoid portions (' interarticular' or 'omoid' bones), (i, i, fig. 126,) which, in birds, abut against the tympanic or quadrate bones. The great alee of the sphenoid join the parietal, and separate the temporal from the frontal bones. The frontal bone (k, fig. 127) continues for a longer period than the parietal to be sepa- rated intotvvo lateral halves by the continuation of the sagittal suture through its whole length. Fig. 127. of a yuuny Ostrich. bones, and comphHe the bony circumference of the orbits, (fig. 128.) In the Emeu they remain for a long time distinct bones, as in the reptiles. The frontal bone thus forms the whole of the superior, and, more or less, of the Outer boundary of the orbits, and protects the anterior part of the cerebrum. It supports the horn-like prominences which are seen upon the heads of the Cassowary, Pintado, and Cu- rassow, the bony bases of which commence by distinct ossifications.^ A small part of the ethmoidal bone (I, fig. 127) is seen, in the Ostrich, on the ex- terior of the cranium lodged between the ant-orbital processes and nasal bones (n, n.) The ethmoid separates, as usual, the orbits from the cavity of the nose, and forms a great part of the inter-orbital septum where this exists, as in the parrots, (m, fig. 128.) In the mature bird the whole of the prece- ding bones, with the exception of the tym- panic elements of the temporal bone, are usually found anchylosed into one piece. The internal surface of the cranium exhibits a well-marked transverse ridge, which divides the cavity into two principal depressions. In the anterior division the hemispheres of • • A most remarkable sexual difference appears In the skull of the crested Hens: in these the frontal portion of the cranium is dilated into an immense cavity, on which the crest of feathers is placed. This degeneracy of the formative impulse, which is propagated to the offspring, is quite unparalleled in the whole animal kingdom : I have lately ex- amined several heads of such hens in a fresh state, and have found that this peculiar dilatation of the cranium is filled by the hemispheres of the cere- brum, and is separated from the posterior part which holds the cerebellum, as in the common hen, by an intermediate contracted portion.'—Law- rence's Blumenhach's Comp. Anat. p. 61.