339' AVES, sheath of the medulla spinalis, which ure the continuation of the sinuses of the brain ; in conjunction with these, therefore, the vertebral vein may be considered as answering the pur- pose of the internal jugular of mammalia. It appears also to form at the basis of the cranium a free communication with the jugular vein, and to receive, by occasional branches^ blood from the muscles of the neck. " The jugular vein (&) is a single trunk in birds, and does not admit of the distinction into external and internal; it proceeds super- ficially along the side of the neck in company with the par vagum nerve. The vein of the right side exceeds the other in size; it is often twice as large. The jugular vein receives several iateral branches from the muscles and integu- ments of the n«ck ((f), the oesophagus, &c. (the veins from the crop joining the jugular are shev/n at c): one of these near the head is much longer than the rest (e); it lies deep amongst the muscles, and appears to com- municate with the vertebral vein. There is a branch of the jugular which goes to the supe- rior larynx amongst the muscles of the tongue and of the os hyoides, and another for the muscles within the jaws and the integuments in the back of the mouth; these might be called the lingual, thyroid, and submaxillury veins (g h i). " The jugular veins form a most remarkable communication with each other immediately below the cranium, by means of a cross branch, generally of an equal size with the trunks themselves. From each side of the arch thus formed there issues a large vessel, which is made up of the veins of the external part of the head; one of these passes round the articular bone, and apparently penetrates the joint of that bone with the lower jaw ; it appears in several branches upon the side of the cheek, and spreading from the ear in the manner of the portio dura nerve of the human subject, and contributes to form a plexus of veins below the posterior part of the orbit (/c), similar to the arterial plexus already described in thatsituation. The principal branch of the veins of the head passes obliquely round the interarticular (or pterygoid) bone, and below the orbit divides into several large vessels, one of which belongs to the back part of the palate ; another ascends on the orbit, and unites with the ophthalmic vein ; and a third is distributed to the interior of the organ of smell, the palate, and the external parts of the upper and lower jaws. These branches produce plexuses along the base of the orbit and the external edge of the palate, which correspond to those of the arte- ries before described. " In all the subjects we dissected for the veins, we failed to discover any direct communication between the jugular vein and the sinuses of the brain ; and in every instance the external veu's of the head appeared to be sufficiently large of themselves to produce the trunk of the jugular. It may, therefore, be presumed that if any branch analogous to the internal jugular vein passes through the posterior fora- men lacerum, it is very inconsiderable, and incapable of transmitting the blood of the bram. " The sinuses of the brain seem to discharge their contents principally into some veins which lie in the membrane forming the sheath of the spinal canal, and these appear to dispose of their blood gradually, as they descend in the neck by means of lateral communication with the vertebral veins. The sinuses, which immediately open into the spinal veins, are situated upon the back of the cerebellum, and produce, by anastomoses with each other, with the superior longitudinal sinus, and with others along the side of the brain, an union of vessels of a diamond shape. " The sinuses of the brain in birds generally are irregular in their form, and consist of flat- tened canals; and not only the sinuses on the back of the cerebellum, but the spinal veins appear so like extravasation, that accurate and repeated observations are necessary to discover them to be real vessels. " The principal sinuses, besides those upon the cerebellum, are the superior longitudinal, and one which runs along the lower edge of each hemisphere of the cerebrum ; there appears to be also one upon the side of the cerebellum, corresponding to the lateral sinus. All these sinuses communicate with each other on the back of the cerebellum as already mentioned. The superior longitudinal sinus is continued at its anterior part under tiie frontal and nasal bones, and anastomoses with the ophthalmic and' iiasal veins. There are other sinuses in the several duplicatures of the dura mater, which are too small to be easily traced or to deserve much regard. " The vei7is of the wings, or superior ex- tremity, have a less curious distribution than those of the head. The branches which are derived from the parts within the chest, the muscles about the scapula, and the pectoral muscles, accompany tlie arteries of the same parts so regularly that their course does not require description. " The axillary vein {I) lies considerably lower in the axilla than the artery, but still continues to receive corresponding branches; {m indicates the great pectoral vein). The trunk of the vein descends in the course of the humeral artery, but more superficially; in this situation it may be called basilic, or more pro- perly the humeral, vein {n). There is no vein in birds which deserves the name of the ce- phalic; there are branches of the humeral vein, accompanying the articular and profunda arte- ries, and at the middle of the humerus a large branch of the vein enters the bone; there are also two very small branches which lie in close contact with the humeral artery, which they accompany nearly its whole length. " The principal vein of the wing divides into two, opposite to the joint of the humerus witli the fore-arm. One of these branches (o) belongs to the sides of the radius; it receives blood from the muscles and skin on the upper part of the fore-arm, but its ciiief vessels lie be- tween the integuments of the fold of the wing. The other branch of the humeral vein (p) crosses z 2