ARTICULATION 248 a. Diarthroditil cartilage. — The general characters of this class of articular cartilage may be best examined on the articulating ex- tremities of the long bones. Here we observe it moulded exactly to the forms of those sur- faces, insomuch that, after a little maceration, the cartilage may, by careful dissection, be removed from the bone, to which it adheres with great firmness, and will be found to ex- hibit an exact mould of the articular ex- tremity ; hence these cartilages have been called " curtilages of' incrustation." This cartilage is perfectly distinct at the early periods of life from the temporary cartilage which forms the nidus of the future bone, and cannot be re- garded as a portion of that cartilage left un- ossified ; this may easily be seen by examining a vertical section of a femur or tibia at this peiiod ; and the peculiar arrangement of the fibres of the articular cartilage, hereafter to be noticed, constitutes an additional proof that it is completely distinct from that which is after- wards transformed into bone. The physical properties and general charac- ters of this form of cartilage do not differ from those of the others; it possesses the same pearly whiteness—the same apparent homoge- neousness of structure—the same elasticity—the same absence of vessels carrying red blood. It is not covered by a perichondrium ; the surface towards the joint is peculiarly smooth and glis- tening, and is generally supposed to owe these properties to its being lined by a layer of the synovial sac of the joint; this point, however, has been controverted, as we shall notice in a subsequent part of the article. The first and the most complete investigation of the true anatomical construction of articular cartilage was that announced by Dr. William Hunter so long ago as 1743.* His paper still deserves the most attentive perusal, not only for the actual information it affords on its professed subject, but as a specimen of the careful and original method of observation pursued by its distinguished author. To examine the structure of articular cartilages, it is necessary to subject them to boiling or along-continued maceration.+ " When an articulating cartilage is well pre- pared," says Dr. Hunter, " it feels soft, yields to the touch, but restores itself to its former equality of surface when the pressure is taken off. This surface, when viewed through a glass, appears like a piece of velvet. If we endeavour to peel the cartilage off in lamellae, we find it impracticable, but if we use a certain degree of force, it separates from the bone in small parcels, and we never find the edge of the remaining part oblique, but always perpen- dicular to the subjacent surface of the bone. If we view this edge through a glass, it appears like the edge of velvet, a mass of short and nearly parallel fibres rising from the bone, and terminating at the external surface of the carti- lage : and the bone itself is planned out into * Of the Structure and Diseases of Articular Cartilage, Phil. Trans, vol. xlii. t The articular cartilage on the patella may be selected as very favourable for this purpose. See the plate annexed to W. Hunter's paper. small circular dimples where the little bundles of the cartilaginous fibres were fixed. Thus we may compare the texture of a cartilage to the pile of velvet, its fibres rising up from the bone, as the silky threads of that rise from the woven cloth or basis. In both substances the short threads sink, and bend in waves upon being compressed, but by the power of elasti- city recover their perpendicular bearing as soon as they are no longer subjected to a compressing force. If another comparison was necessary, we might instance the flower of any coiymbiferous plant, where the Jtosculi and stamina represent the little bundles of cartilaginous fibres, and the calyx, upon which they are planted, bears analogy to the bone."* The total absence of vessels capable of car- rying red blood in articular cartilage is proved by the failure of even the minutest injections to pass into the cartilage, and a further confirma- tion of this opinion is derived from the fact that madder taken into the system of a young animal does not stain them. The attempts of anatomists to trace lymphatics and nerves into this structure have been equally unavailing. The design of articular cartilages, as means to break the violence of shocks, is well illus- trated by comparing the different arrangement of the cartilaginous incrustation on convex arti- cular surfaces from that on concave. In the former, we observe the layer of cartilage to be very thin at the circumference of the articular surface, its thickest portion being in the centre, while the opposite arrangement obtains on con- cave surfaces : there the thinnest portion of the cartilage is in the centre, and*the layer increases in thickness as it approaches the circumference. " The articulating cartilages are most hap- pily contrived to all purposes of motion in those parts. By their uniform surface they move upon one another with ease: by their soft, smooth, and slippery surface mutual abra- sion is prevented : by iheir flexibility, the con- tiguous surfaces are constantly adapted to each other, and the friction diffused equally over the whole : by their elasticity, the violence of any shock, which may happen in running, jumping, &c. is broken and gradually spent; which must have been extremely pernicious, if the hard surfaces of bones had been immediately contiguous. As the course of the cartilaginous fibres appears calculated chiefly for this last advantage, to illustrate it, we need only reflect on the soft undulatory motion of coaches, which mechanics want to procure by springs, or upon the difference betwixt riding a chamber-horse and a real one."t • Loc. cit. p. 516. t Hunter, in loco citato. Hunter's account of articular cartilage is completely confirmed by M. De Lasone in a paper in the Mem. de I'Academie Royale des Sciences, An 1752. He describes the cartilage as " une multitude des peiits filets adosses etlieslesuns aux autres tous perpendiculaires au plan de I'os, en un mot parfaitement semblables par leur structure, ou par leur position a la substance emaillcedes dents, laquellc n'cst composee, commc on salt, que de filets osaeux, poses perpcndiculaiie- ment sur le corps de la dent : la comparaison est des plus exactcs."