ABNORMAL CONDITION OF THE ANKLL-JOINT. 157 the dead subject, tliey resist more powerfully than the structure of the bones tViemselves. It was as a consequence of the fracture of the fibula and a rupture of these ligaments, that, in the case alluded to, tlie astragalus was seen dislocated outwards, and then drawn up on the outer side of the tibia. In short, the astragalus, the malleolus externus, and the foot, which formed but one system of parts firmly connected, were drawn first to the outer side of the leg, and then two mches upwards on the tibia. A carpenter, aged fifty-four years, was ad- mitted into the Hotel Dieu,in February, 1816. His right leg presented all the signs of fracture of the fibula at its inferior part, such as devia- tion and rotation of the foot outwards, promi- nence of the tibia, and of the inteinal malleolus inwards, depression and crepitation above the outer ankle ; but that which most attracted the attention was, 1st, the shortening of the limb, and, 2dly, the enormous increase in breadth of the space which should naturally intervene be- tween the two malleoli. The sinking down of the lowest part of the tibia, even to the level of the sole of the foot, where the projection of the internal malleolus could be felt, the elevation of the astragalus, of the peroneal malleolus, and the whole of the foot along the external surface of the tibia, even to two inches, were all symp- toms quite unusual in fracture of the fibula, and left no doubt that the ligaments which stretched inferiorly from this bone to the tibia had been lacerated, and that the foot, yielding to a violent effort from within outwards, and from below upwards, had been luxated in these directions, and had carried with it the peroneal malleolus. This then is evidently a case of complete dislocation of the tibia inwards, or, as the French writers would call it, a luxation of the foot outwards acd upwards. Although this species of luxation has not been specially described in any of our English works, I doubt not but such an accident has been observed, although it is possible that its nature was not always clearly understood. Sir A. Cooper, in his valuable work on Disloca- tions and Fractures, states that the foot has also been known to be thrown upwards, between the tibia and fibula, by the giving way of the ligament which unites these bones; but he adds that this accident is only an aggravated form of an internal dislocation. We find but little difficulty in comprehend- ing how the accident described by Dupuytren may occur, because, the fibula having been first fractured, the broken bone and ruptured ligaments permit the foot to yield to the powerful action of the muscles on the back part and outside of the leg, which draw it at first outwards, and then upwards ; but on the contrary, it is not easy to imagine any force capable of overcoming the resistance of the many inter-osseous ligaments which exist, and of the fasciae and annular membranes which surround the bones of the leg: a force must be great indeed which can overcome the muscles also, and cause a divarication of the bones of the leg sufficient to permit the astragalus and rest Fig. 53. Fig. 54. Complete luxation of the Dissection oJ a case of cioia inwaras ur oj ttiejoot tiie same class as jig. 53, outwards and upwards.— from the museum of St. ( Dupuytren.) Thomas's Hospital. of the foot to be thrown upwards between the tibia and fibula. Supposing this last case pos- sible, the shortening of the limb and its newly- acquired breadth between the malleoli might lead to error, and the two cases here alluded to be at first sight confounded; but in Dupuy- tren's case, the fracture of the fibula, the over- lapping of its fragments, and above all the ascent of the external malleolus, so much above the level of the internal, will always constitute such characteristic marks, that when such an accident presents itself, we conceive it cannot be confounded with any other injury of this articulation. What are the anatomical characters of this complete luxation of the tibia inwards, with displacement of the foot and outer malleolus upwards and outwards ? It is evident that there must be very extensive injury done in such cases to the ligaments and bones ; the fibula must be fractured near the ankle, and it is probable that some fragments of the tibia may be carried off with the fibula, for such is the strength of the ligaments between the lower part of the tibia and fibula, where these unite for thereception of the astragalus {vid.fg. 61), that there is reason to believe that the bone itself would break before the ligaments would yield. If a portion of the tibia, however, is not broken off and carried with the fibula, these transverse fibrous bands must be torn, as well as those