ADIPOSE TISSUE. 57 tiguous cellular tissue vvithoul leaving any trace of tiieir existence. Hunter, however, asserts that in such cir- cumstances the cellular tissue differs from the tissue of adipose vesicles in containing no similar cavities, remarks that the latter is much more fleshy and ligamentous than the fila- mentous tissue, and contends that though the adipose vesicles are empty and collapsed, they still exist. When the skin is dissected from the adipose membrane, it is always possible to distinguish the latter from the filamentous tissue, even if it contain no fat, by the tough- ness of its fibres and the coarseness of the web which they make. The distinguishing characters between the cellular or filamentous and the adipose tissue may be slated in the following manner. First, the vesicles of the adipose membrane are closed all round, and, unlike the cellular tissue, they cannot be generally penetrated by fluids which are made to enter them. If the temperature of a portion of adipose membrane be raised by means of warm water to the liquefying point of the contents, they will remain un- moved so long as the structure of the vesicles is not injured by the heat. If again an adi- pose packet be exposed to a solar heat of 104° Fahrenheit, though the fat be completely lique- fied, not a drop will escape until the vesicles are divided or otherwise opened, when it ap- pears in abundance. The adipose matter, therefore, though fluid or semifluid in the living body, does not, like dropsical infiltra- tion, obey the impulse of gravity. Secondly, the adipose vesicles do not form, like cellular tissue, a continuous whole, but are simply in mutual contiguity. This arrangement is de- monstrated by actual inspection, but becomes more conspicuous in the case of dropsical effu- sions, when the filamentous tissue interposed between the adipose molecules is completely infiltrated while the latter are entirely unaf- fected. Thirdly, the anatomical situation of the adipose tissue is different from that of the filamentous tissue. The former is found, 1st, in a considerable layer extended immediately beneath the skin; 2dly, in the trunk and ex- tremities round the large vessels and nerves; 3dly, between the serous and muscular tissues of the heart; 4thly, between the peritoneal folds which form the omentum and mesentery ; 5thly, round each kidney; and, 6thly, in cer- tain folds of the synovial membranes without the articular capsules. In each of these situations it varies in quan- tity and physical properties. In the least cor- pulent persons a portion of fat is deposited in the adipose membrane of the cheeks, orbits, palms of the hands, soles of the feet, pulp of the fingers and toes, flexures of the joints, round the kidney, beneath the cardiac serous membrane, and between the layers of the me- sentery and omentum. In the more corpulent, and chiefly in females, it is found not merely in these situations, but extended in a layer of some thickness, almost uniformly over the whole person; but is very abundant in the neck, breasts, belly, muns Veneris, and flexures of the joints. It has been long observed that the subcu- taneous adipose layer presents considerable diflerences from the adipose matter found be- tween the folds of the serous membranes ; and the older anatomists, aware of these differences, distinguished the former by the name of pin- guedo, and the latter by that of sebum. The subcutaneous adipose membrane is, when viewed as a whole, more elastic, softer, and less granular than the omental fat, and evi- dently presents the arrangement of vesicular bags much more distinctly than the omental. It is in the subcutaneous adipose membrane indeed, almost exclusively, that the vesicular arrangement can be recognized. The subcu- taneous cellular fat also contains a greater quantity of oil than the omental, which abounds chiefly in firm, brittle, granular fat. Tlie situation where die vesicular structure of the adipose membrane is most easily de- monstrated is in die hips between the skin and the gluteal muscles, and at the flexures of the joints generally. In the former situation especially, the constituent fibres of the vesi- cular bags are tough, firm, and ligamentous, and the bags themselves are large and distinct. It is a remarkable anatomical character of the sebaceous or tallow-like fat that its distri- bution is confined chiefly to the external or commutual surfaces of several of the serous membranes; and this arrangement presents a series of interesting anatomical analogies. Thus sebaceous fat is found on the external surface of the pleuru costulis, between it and the inter- costal muscles, and between the layers at die posterior and anterior mediastinum. It is also found between the cardiac pericardium and the muscular substance of the heart, especially around the vessels of the organ. In some of the large mammalia even this circumstance is connected with peculiar anatomical appear- ances. Thus, in the heart of the dolphin (del- phinus tursiu) we find the cardiac pericardium formed into broad prominent fringes, consisting each of two folds of the membrane, between which is interposed a considerable quantity of sebaceous fat. In the same manner the several omenta, or peritoneal duplicatures in the abdo- men, may be recognized as analogous fringes containing more or less sebaceous fat; and the omental appendages (appendices epiploicee) of the colon must be regarded as examples of the same arrangement. Lastly, in the interior of the articular capsules we find the synovial membranes forming large prominent fringes, which, if immersed in water, show to what extent they are made to recede from the cap- sule and bone, and forming cavities of dupli- cation in which sebaceous matter is contained. It thus appears that none of the serous mem- branes is exacdy applied either to the parietes of cavities or to the surface of the contained organs, but that they form intervals on their outer or attached surfaces, on which various quantities of sebaceous fat are deposited. In all these substances we do not recognize the