640 CIRCULATION. the pulraoiiary veins {p)- The left auricle (A) receives the newly arteridlized blood from the pulmonary veins, and transmits it to the left ventricle {H), from which it is ready to start a'jain, wlieu tlie ventricle contracts, on the same course as has just been described. In this double circulation, the path which the blood traverses in passing from the left to the right side of the heart through the aortic arteries and the corresponding veins, has been called the greater or syUeinic circulation : and the route of the blood from the right to the left side of the heart through the pulmonary arte- ries and veins has been termed the leaser or pulmonic circulation. The names of pulmonic and systemic, indicating the parts of the body in which each of these circulations respectively occurs, are on the whole preferable to the cor- responding terms of lesser and greater. There is still one part of the course of the blood to be mentioned, viz. that of the venous blood of the principal abdominal viscera tiirougl) the liver, or what has been termed the system of the vena portae. The blood supplied by the cceliac and me- senteric arteries (J, i) to the abdominal viscera is not returned directly to the heart by their corresponding veins, as occurs in other parts of the body. The veins of the stomach and intestinal canal, of tlie spleen, pancreas, me- sentery, omenta, and gall-bladder, unite to- gether below the liver into one large vessel (L), the trunk of the vena portae, which branches out again and distributes to the liver by its ramifications the wliole of the venous blood coming from the above-mentioned organs. The blood of the vena portae, being joined in the minute branches by that of the hepatic artery (/*), passes into the smallest ramifica- tions of the hepatic veins, by the principal trunl;s of which (/), the venous and arterial blood circulated through the liver is carried to the inferior vena cava, and thus reaches at last the right side of the heart. Proofs of the circuliition.—After this brief outline of the course which the blood takes through the circulatory organs in man and warm-blooded animals, it may be proper to introduce an enumeration of those circum- stances which are generally adduced as af- fording the most satisfactory " proofs of the circulation" or evidence that the blood pursues the paths above detailed. As proofs of the circulation, besides those derived from the connection of the different orders of great vessels with the cavities of the heart to which they are respectively attached, may be mentioned—■ ist. The structure and disposition of the auriculo-ventricular valves of the heart, and semilunar valves of the aorta and pulmonary artery, which admit of the passage of blood from the auricles to the ventricles, and from the latter cavities to the great arteries, but not in a reverse direction. 2nd. The mechanism of the valves of the systemic veins which allow of the motion of fluid only in the direction towards the heart. .3rd. The fact that when a ligature is applied to an artery, or any other impediment opposed to the free passage of blood through it, the vessel becomes dilated on the side next the heart, while the application of a ligature to the trunk of a vein is followed by a turgescence of the vessel beyond the place where tlie obstruc- tion occurs. 4th. Thatonopening oneof thelarger arteries, blood issues in a jet from the end next to the heart at the time of every contraction of that organ, and that in general no blood flows from the orifice of the remote part of the artery: and that on opening a vein the converse is ob- served, the blood issuing freely in a continued stream from the remote part, but none proceed- ing from the part of the vein adjoining the heart. .5th. That the passage of the blood from the arteries to the veins in the small or capillary vessels has been observed by means of the microscope in transparent parts of animals, and, though it has not been seen in man, we are enlitled from the general analogy in the struc- ture of the organs of circulation to infer that the same passage occurs in the human body. 6th. That, by mechanical arrangements, fluids may easily be made to pass in the dead body through the whole course of the double circulation, but not in a direction different from that which the blood has been stated to pursue. 7th. That by the operation of transfusion, the blood of one animal may be made to circu- late through the heart and vessels of another, by connecting together the bloodvessels (whe- ther arteries or veins) of the two animals, in such a manner that the course in which the blood is directed by the action of the heart of the animal from which the blood is derived is that of the natural circulation in the animal into which it is introduced. 8th. The phenomena presented by the circu- lation of the blood in various diseased condi- tions of the heart and bloodvessels may be ad- duced as affording additional illustration of the natural course of the blood, by pointing out the effect of morbid obstructions and other varieties in different parts of the circulatory organs. Course of the blood in the fat us before birth. —The double circulation just described is the course performed by the blood from the time of birth during the whole of life. The circulation of the blood, however, begins at a very early period of foetal life; but the difference in the mode in which respiration is effected in the child so long as it is contained in the uterus, induces a modification in the course of the blood to which we shall now advert. There being no inhalation of air into the lungs of the fetus, the blood is sent only in small quantity to these organs, and does not undergo in them any change of properties. A considerable portion of tiie blood of the foetus passes out of its body through the umbilical cord (fig. 313, U, u) into the placenta of the uterus. The minutely divided foetal vessels are bathed by the blood of the mother contained in the placental sinuses, and, though no direct