47 ACIDS, ANIMAL.- ACRITA. ACIDS, ANIMAL. Several acids are found in animal products, some of which are jjeculiar to organized bodies, and others com- mon to them and to the other kingdoms in nature. The former are characterized by their analogy to other organic compounds, and are ternary or quaternary combinations of carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen. The latter are for the most part binary compounds, such as the phosphoric, carbonic, muriatic, sul- phuric, and fluoric acids. With the exception of lactic acid, the exis- tence of which as a distinct definite compound is doubtful, there is only one acid which can strictly be called peculiar to animals, namely, the ur-ic acid. The oxalic, benzoic, and acetic acids are common to animals and vegeta- bles. The other animal acids are not found ready formed, but are artificially produced by various chemical processes in which animal matters are concerned. Such are the various acids from fat and oil, the animal pyroacids, the purpuric acid,* and a few others. There are also cer- tain acids almost peculiar to individual animals, such as the formic,t the allantoic or amniotic,]; the bombic, &c.,§ and one or two which are the products of disease. Under the articles fat, urine, milk, and BONE, will be found the details respecting the principal animal acids. (W. T. Brandc.) ACRITA (a, priv. x^tvu, disccrnn,) a pri- mary division of the animal kingdom founded by Virey, and so called by Macleay,|| composed of the lowest classes of the radiate animals of Cuvier, and characterised by an indht 'nict, dif- fused, or molecular condition of the nervous system. The necessity for a dismemberment of the Radiata of Cuvier, which Rudolphi^I justly calls a chaotic group, has been felt, and directly or indirectly expressed, by most naturalists and comparative anatomists.** It is impossible, in- deed, to predicate a community of structure in either the locomotive, excretive, digestive, sensitive, or generative systems, with respect to this division, as it now stands in the " Regne Animal." As in the animal organization the nervous * First obtained by Dr. Prout from the pure lithic acid, of which the excrements of the boa constrictor consist. t Procured from the expressed liquor of ants. X Supposed by Vauquelin to exist in the liquor amnii of the cow. § Extracted by Chaussier from the silk-worm, but its existence is very problematical. 11 Hor« Entomologica;, vol. i. pt. ii. p. 202. ^ Synopsis Kntozoorum, p. 572. ** Lamarck observes, " Les animaux aputhiques (as he terms ihe Acrita) furent tres-improprement appeles xoophytes: ils ne tiennent rien de la nature vegetale, et tons generalemeut sont completement des animaux. La denomination d'animaux ra- 1/onnes ne leur convient pas plus que la prece- dente ; car elle ne peut s'appliquer; qu'a une partie d'entr'eux; et il s'en trouve beaucoup parmi eux qui n'ont absolunT^nt rien de la forme rayonnonte." Anim. sans Vertebres i. \>. 390. System is that which is subject to the fewest varieties, and as its relative perfection is the surest indication of the relative perfection of the entire animal, the modifications of this system necessarily indicate the highest or pri- mary divisions of the animal kingdom, and form their distinguishing characters. Taking, then, the nervous system as a guide, the radiata of Cuvier will be found to re- solve themselves into two natural groups, of which the first, composed of the Polyastric In- fusoria of Ehrenberg, the Polypi of Cuvier, the Entozoa parcnchymatosa, Cuv. or Sterel- mintha, and the Acaleplia; differs in the absence or obscure traces of nervous filaments from the second division, including the TLcliinoderma, the Entozoa cavitaria or Ccelelmintha, the epi- zoa, and the Rotifera, Ehr., in which nervous filaments are always distinctly traceable, either radiating from an oral ring, or distributed, in a parallel longitudiual direction, according to tlie form of the body. These different conditions of the nervous system are accompanied with corresponding modifications of the muscular, digestive, and vascular systems, and a negative character, ap- plicable to the higher division of Cuvier's Radiata, may be derived from the generative system. With respect to the muscular system, we find that although all the Acrita possess the loco- motive faculty at some period of tlieir exist- ence, and many never become fixed, yet that distinct muscular fasciculi are not necessarily developed. In the fresh-water polype, for ex- ample, the whole of the homogeneous paren- chyma of which it consists is equally con- tractile ; and even in the medusa, which ranks among the highest of the Acrita, no distinct muscular organs for effecting the contractions of the gelatinous disc have yet been detected. In the higher division of radiata, on the other hand, which from the filamentous condition of the nervous system may be termed Nciuato- neurn, the muscular system is always distinctly eliminated. The difference in the condition of the diges- tive system between the Acrite and Nemato- neurous classes is still more striking: in the former the alimentary canal is excavated in the parenchyma of the body, and is devoid of dis- tinct parietes: in the Nematoneura it is pro- vided with a proper muscular tunic, and floats in an abdominal cavity. A corresponding difference is presented by these two divisions of the invertebrate animals, in the condition of the vascular system. Where traces of sanguiferous organs are met with in the Acrita, they are equally with the digestive organ devoid of proper parietes, but consist of reticulate canals in the substance of the body, generally situated near the surface, and in which a cyclusis of the nutrient fluids is observed analogous to that of plants, but not a true circulation. This structure obtains in the Acrita as low down in the scale as the poly- gastrica, in which class Ehrenberg has deter- mined the existence of a superficial network of vessels containingan opaline fluid. In those