390 BLADDER, ABNORMAL ANATOMY. scribed under the head : " Uretra in intestinum patens." Of the third species, cases are cited by Haller* and by Schrader.f In these cases there was no other malformation. In the foregoing enumeration we have purposely avoided the introduction of cases of general monstrosity in which the urinary bladder was absent. Plurcdiiy.—1 here are upon record a certain number of cases in which two or more urinary bladders are said to have existed. Of these some appear to me to have been cases in which the plurality was maintained merely because the organ was divided into compartments, either as a consequence of arrested develop- ment or of the formation of pouches, by the protrusion, or hernia of the mucous membrane of the organ. The following case related by Blasius belongs, I apprehend, to the former species. A person died phthisical, having a " double bladder." When the external sur- face was examined, it appeared to be an unique organ, but upon being opened a membranous septum was discovered, by which the organ was divided into two distmct cavities. The narrator adds, that by dissection he separated the one from the other, so that the longitudinal septum was formed by the parietes of the two bladders, which were in contact, and hud become united the one to the other. There is a case of a similar nature described by Brora- field; and many more are recorded by Mor- gagni and others. We know of no instance in the human sub- ject, with the exception of that related by Molinetti,J in which a plurality of urinary blad- ders distinct from each other existed. In this case there does not appear to have been any thing abnormal in the organisation except in so far as concerned the urinary organs. " A woman had five urinary bladders, as many kidneys, and six ureters, two of which were inserted into a bladder which was much larger than the others!! the remaining four ureters terminated in as many small bladders, which poured their urine by particular canals into the larger bladder." Another but less carefully described case of the same kind is mentioned by Fantoni, in his Anat. Corp. Hum. diss. 7; and in the Acta Physico-Medica Academia; Csesareae Nat. Curios, vol. i. obs. * Element. Physiologiee, vol. vii. p. 297. t Nov. Epheni. Acad. cur. Nat. vol. i. obs. 38, et die 42, obs. 68. [The Editor has in his posses- sion the preparation of a female foetus which lived some days, where the ureters opened through the abdominal parietes on each side of the pubic region in the form of little pouches or sacs, in which was a continuation of their lining membrane. The urine, as it distilled from the liidney, accumulated in each of these sacs (in very small quantity, as they were incapable of containing more than a drop or two,) prior to its oozing out upon the raw cutaneous surface. This latter was deficient of cuticle for a surface about an inch and a half in diameter ; the pubic bones and the inferior fourth of the recti and tendinous expansions of the ohliqui were absent. There was also only about an inch of large intestine (ccecum).—Ed.] Dissert. Anat. Pathol, lib. vi. cap. 7. 83, may be found a well-marked case of duplicity of the urinary bladder described by Zuinger, whose account is accompanied by a plate, which perfectly confirms the description; but this case occurred in an ox. Septa.—Occasionally, within the cavity of the bladder, more or less perfect septa are found, by which that organ is divided into two or more compartments. This condition is met with or occurs under two very different circum- stances : in one it is a congenital affection, and this it is our business to consider in this section; in the other it is produced by and is not an uncommon consequence of retention of urine during extra-uterine life. In the de- scription of these two very dissimilar aftections much confusion has occurred, in consequence of an almost universal impression that they were siinilar the one to the other. If the theory of the eccentric development of organs, proposed by Geoffroy St. Hilaire, and extended by M. Senes, be admitted, all difhcu'.ty in explaining this seemingly singular congenital phenomenon vanishes. M. Serres conceives that he has triumphantly established the fact, that the hollow organs, which are single and placed on the median Ime, are composed of two moieties, primitively distinct and sepa- rate; so that according to him, at a certain period of uterine life, there exist two aortas, two basilar arteries, two superior cavae, and so on. Now if there exist two vagina;, two bladders, two uteri, at a certain epoch of embryotic life, the evolution of these organs should necessarily present three successive periods: a first, characterised by their du- plicity and their complete isolation; a second, by their mutual approach and union upon the median line ; a third, by their complete fusion, which constitutes their permanent condition in man and the mammalia. We can therefore conceive that at the moment of the second period, when the two primitive organs are united, the parietes of both being entire and in contact on the median line, there will be a perfect septum separating the one organ from the other. At the commencement of the third period in the process of develop- ment, the septum is destined to disappear, the two cavities merge into one, and the work of development in the organ is com- plete. Now, in the evolution of all the organs, development may be arrested at any period of its progress: it may be arre ted before the organs come into contact, in which case there would be two bladders; it may be arrested after they have formed a junction, in which case a complete septum would exist, as in the case described by Blasius ; or the check may not occur until a greater or less portion of the septum shall have disappeared. To distinguish the congenital affection which is a consequence of arrested development, from the acquired affection which is an extra- uterine disease, and is commonly an effect of retention of urine, is not difficult. In the former we shall always find that the entire of each pouch is invested by a layer of mus- cular fibres; in the latter, it will be found that