CETACEA. 590 the derm, and open in tlie intervals of the papillcB by an onfice generally closed by a small epidermic valve. 4. The inhalent apparatus (Vappareil d'in- halution) is formed by extremely delicate canals, which are smooth, straight, silvery, branched, and very easily ruptured : they originate in a plexus extended in the dermis beneath the sudorific canals, anastomose to- gether, and are provided with partitions. The lymphatic vessels have no connection with these canals, which communicate directly with the arteries and veins. They are absorbing canals. 5. The mucous apparatus (I'appareil blen- nogene). This is composed of secerning glands and excretory ducts, which open be- tween the papillaj like the orifices of the pre- ceding canals. It is wholly contained in the derm, and produces a mucous material, which by desiccation (en se dessechunt) becomes the cuticle. In the Whales this cuticle acquires an extreme thickness: it is much thinner in the Dolphins. 6. The colorific apparatus (Vappareil chro- matoghie) is likevfise composed of secerning glands and excretory ducts; it is situated in the first superior (peripheral) layers of the corium on the right and left sides of the outlet of the excretory ducts of the preceding appa- ratus, and it pours out the coloured product at the same point where the mucous matter is excreted, where it stains it. [It may be questioned how far this expla- nation satisfactorily accounts for the formation of cuticle in animals living habitually under water. The whole account is to be received with reserve, and requires to be confirmed by further ob- servations, especially as regards the reflexion of the nervous fibrils and the sudorific and inhalent apparatuses.] We do not stop to examine how far this analysis serves to explain the different phe- nomena which the external teguments of the Mammalia present. But admitting it as it is presented to us, it results that the sensations of touch must be lively and delicate in the Cetacea: the great development of their pa- pillary apparatus leads to this conclusion. Nevertheless, the most generally received opi- nion is that the common Dolphin, notwith- standing the delicacy of its epidermis, has but little tactile sensibility. But is this opinion devoid of foundation? or is it explicable on the ground of the deposition of fat, which penetrates every part of the skin, and is accu- mulated in a dense layer beneath it, so as to enfeeble the sensibility of the surface, accord- ing to the common belief. This is the opinion to which we have arrived. With respect to the Balsenidse no difficulty exists on account of the tliickness and horny texture of the epi- dermis. [According to Hunter's views the reticular network containing the blubber, which he de- scribes as fine in the Porpoise, Spermaceti, and large Whale-bone Whale (Balana), and coarse in the Grampus and small Whale-bone Whale C Balanoptera), forms part of the skin; for he observes that " the cutis seems to be the termination of the cellular membrane of the body more closely united, having smaller interstices and becoming more compact," and that the distinction between the skin and cel- lular membrane is much less obvious in fat than in lean animals; " for the cells of both membrane and skin being loaded with fat, the whole has more the appearance of one uniform substance. This uniformity of the adipose membrane and skin is most observable in the Whale, Seal, Hog, and the Human Species."*] In the Balcenoptera the integument covering the ventral surface of the neck, thorax, and anterior part of the abdomen, is disposed in longitudinal folds, about five-eighths of an inch in breadth in the contracted state. The skin is very soft in the insterstices of the folds, and covered there with a thinner cuticle: it possesses great elasticity over the whole of the plicated surface. A panniculus camosus ad- heres closely to this part of the skin, but is separated by a loose cellular membrane from the deep-seated muscles; in which space the blubber is in smaller quantity than on the dorsal and lateral parts of the body. Besides the adipose substance which is ac- cumulated beneatii the integument, another secretion of a peculiar kind, called Sperma- ceti, which is analogous in many of its pro- perties to the adeps, is met with in certain species of Cetacea, but more particularly in the genera Catodon and Phy&eter, which are hence termed Spermaceti Whales. Of this substance Mr. Hunter gives the following account from a dissection of a recent specimen of one of these Whales. [ " What is called spermaceti is found every where in the body in small quantity, mixed with the common fat of the animal, bearing a very small proportion to the other fat. In the head it is the reverse, for there the quantity of spermaceti is large when compared to that of the oil, although they are mixed, as in the other parts of the body. " As the spermaceti is found in the largest quantity in the head, and in what would ap- pear on a slight view to be the cavity of the skull, from a peculiarity in the shape of that bone, it has been imagined by some to be the brain. " These two kinds of fat in the head are con- tained in cells, or cellular membrane, in the same manner as the fat in other animals ; but besides the common cells there are larger ones, or ligamentous partitions going across, the better to support the vast load of oil, of which the bulk of the head is principally made up. " There are two places in the head where this oil lies ; these are situated along its upper and lower part: between them pass the nos- trils, and a vast number of tendons going to the nose and different parts of the head. " The purest spermaceti is contained in the smallest and least ligamentous cells: it lies above the nostril, all along the upper part of * Ibid. p. 395.