779 CRUSTACEA. conformation; they appear like a vesicular or foliaceous expansion, of an extremely soft tex- ture, which is attached to the inner edge of the base of the thoracic extremities; their dimensions generally increase from before back- wards, and the last pair of thoracic extremities is not furnished with any : their total number varies from eight to twelve. These organs, suspended under the thorax, float in the ambient fluid, and the water in contact with their surface is incessantly renovated by means of the motions performed by the abdominal extremities of the animal, motions which occa- sion a rapid current from behind forwards along the ventral aspect of the body. In the Loemodipoda, the parts which perform the office of branchiae are vesicular bodies formed by the flabelliform appendage of a certain number of the pairs of thoracic extre- mities. In the Isopoda, finally, the locomotory extremities no longer serve for respiration, the function being committed to the five first pairs of abdominal extremities which are entirely devoted to it and cease to have any other uses. These extremities, which are designated under the name oi false branchial limbs, consist of a cylindrical articulation, supporting two folia- ceous, soft membranous laminse, vascular in a greater or less degree; frequently, too, we perceive on their inner side a small appendage, which may be regarded as analogous to the femur or stem of the other extremities, whilst the two laminae, of which mention has just been made, appear to represent the palp and the flabellum. In the greater number of Iso- poda these organs are completely exterior, but m several (such as the Idotea) the last ring Fig. 423. Fig. 424. Respiratory apparatus of the Idotea. of the abdomen supplies them with a cavity, the entrance to which is closed by valves which constitute the two appendages of the same ring. The Stomapoda which have already supplied us with an instance of the absence of deter- minate organs of respiration, also exhibit something analogous to the transition state of this apparatus during the second period of the embryonic life of the Decapod. In the genus Cynthia the branchiae are represented by a small membranous cylinder, attached by its middle to a peduncle, itself implanted upon the extremity of the basilar articulation of the five first pairs of abdominal extremities. The third type of the respiratory apparatus specified above, is presented to us by other Stomapods, known under the names of Squillee and Thysanopodse. In these creatures, in fact, we discover branchiee properly so called, the structure of which is greatly complicated, more so even than in the Crustaceans at the very head of the series; still the respiratory apparatus as a whole is much less complete, for they are not included in a cavity, and float freely in the water which bathes the entire sur- face of the body of the animal. In the Squilla; C^'g.425) the branchiae are attached to the basilar joint of the first five pairs of abdominal extremi- P,g.425. I ) One Of the- lyranchifr of the Sjuilla. a. branchia Jixed to the ahdomimd ejrtremity (b). Illl|l|k|ll'' ties, and each consists of a long cylindrical tube, upon one of the sides of which proceeds a series of small tubes disposed parallel to one another like the pipes of an organ and support- ing in their turn a series of long cylindrical and very numerous tubes.* In the Thysanopoda the branchiae also resemble plumes, but in- stead of being situated on the abdomen, they are attached to the thoracic extremities.f Finally, the last or highest term of develop- ment which we have mentioned in the River- crab, is also presented to us by the entire order of Decapod Crustaceans. Not only is the func- tion of respiration thrown upon particular organs, created expressly for this purpose, in the whole of these animals, but further, the organs themselves are lodged and protected within especial cavities, and the renewal of the water necessary to their functions is secured by the action of distinct appendages belonging more particularly to the masticatory and loco- motory apparatuses. Let us now take a survey of the branchial cavity. It occupies (fig. 426) the lateral part of the thorax, and extends between the vault of the flancs and the lateral portion of the cara- pace, from the base of the extremities all the way towards the dorsal aspect of the animal. As we have already said, it is formed by an in- ternal fold of the common tegumentary mem- brane, which, after having formed the vault of the flancs, re-descends towards the base of the extremities to become continuous with the carapace. The internal and inferior wall of this cavity is consequently formed by the vault of the flancs itself, and its external and superior wall by a membranous septum, which in the greater part of its extent is for the most part connected with the corresponding portion of * Cuvier, Le9ons d'Anat. comp. t. iv. t Mem. sur une disposition particuliere de I'ap- pareil brancliial chez quelques Crustaces, par Milne Edwards, Ann. des Sciences Nat. txun. xix. 3 E 2