AVES. general form produces infinite variety in the of being as deep as it is long), and the Skimmer application of the force. (Rhyncops), in which the still more singular A compressed beak with sharp edges and a structure obtains of an inequality in the length hooked extremity characterizes both the Birds of the two mandibles, the upper one bein^ con- of Prey properly so called, which destroy the siderably the shortest; so that this bird can smaller quadrupeds and birds ( /;g. 112); and also the carnivorous species of a different order that live on fish, as the Petrels {fig. 142), Al- Fig. 142 only get its food, which consists of float! ^ marine animals, by pushing them before it as it skims along the surface of the water. Fig. 144. Bill of the Petrel. s. Frigate-bird, and Tropic-bird. But in the Raptores it is comparatively shorter and stronger, and in some genera a tooth-like pro- cess on either side adds considerably to its destmctive powers : hence the Falcons which possess this armature are reckoned the more ' noble ' and courageous Birds of Prey. The Insessorial Shrikes which have their bill similarly armed do not yield in courage to the Hawks, notwithstanding their small size, and the comparative feebleness of their wings and feet: Og. 115.) As the bill becomes narrower and straighter, it characterizes birds of a voracious habit, but less daring in their attacks on other birds, such as the Crows, Magpies, &c., (/g. 116); and the compressed knife-shaped bill is asso- ciated with similar habits in the Water-birds, as the Gulls, Grebes, Dabchicks, &c. Another kind of strong „. and trenchant bill, which S- is more elongated and without a hook, seizes to cut and break, but not to tear: this form of bill characterizes the Waders which frequent the water and prey upon animals that make resistance in that element, as reptiles, fishes, &c. In the He- rons and Bitterns the. bill is straight; in the Ib^s it is curved down- wards (/g. 123); in the Jabiru (/g. 143) it is curved in the contrary direction. Fig. 143. Bill of the Skimmer. Lastly, there are trenchant bills which are depressed or flattened horizontally; they serve to seize fishes and reptiles, and other large objects; the Boat-bill (Cancroma) exhibits a bill of this kind Kfg. 145), which Fig. 145. Bill of the Boat-bill. Of the blunt-edged bills we may first notice those which are flattened horizontally. When a bill of this description is long and strong, as in the Pelecan {Jig. 146), it serves to seize a large but feebly resisting prey, as fishes. Bill of the Pelecan. When it is long and weak, as in the Spoon- bill, which derives its name from the dilated extremity of the mandibles, it is only available to seize amid sand, mud, or water, very small Crustaceans, MoUusks, &c. {fg. 147.) Fig. 147. Bill of the Jabiru. Some trenchant or sharp-edged bills are so compressed as to resemble the blade of a knife, and can only serve to seize small ob- jects, which are immediately swallowed : such is the form of the beak in the Auks, Puffins, Coulterneb, (where it has the further peculiarity ! of the Spoonbill. The more or less flattened bills of Ducks, the more conical ones of Geese and Swans, and that of the Flamingo,* of which the extremities * It is singular that it should ever have been that the upper mandible was alone move- , and the lower mandible perfectly immoveable, in the Flamingo, since precisely the contrary is the