CU'JSTACEA. Fig. 404. f'/i'. 405. Stems of very various lengths, and which every consideration leads us to view as the limbs or appendages of the first cephalic ring. It some- times even happens (Jig. 404) that in these animals, between the outer edge of the cara- pace and the base of the antennae, there occurs a furrow or cavity within which the eyes may be withdrawn or laid fiat, so as to be out of the way of injury; this groove or cavity is generally spoken of under the name of the orbit. § 3. Apparatus of Nutrition. In the study of this apparatus we shall have to consider successively the organs of digestion, of circulation, of respiration, and of secretion. A. Apparatus of digestion. — The organs concerned in the digestion of the food among the Crustacea may be divided into three orders, according to the functions they fulfil, to wit, 1st, the apparatus for the prehension and mastication of the food; 2nd, the alimen- tary canal; 3rd, the various secreting organs associated with the intestine. The Crustacea are divided into two grand sections in conformity with their habits and the nature of their food :— the masticators, which generally live apart from their prey, pursue it, and seize it m proportion as they are admonished by their wants or appetite to do so; and the s«c/cer.5, considerably fewer in number, and which in their state of perfect grovs'th live almost invariably attached to their prey without executing any other motions than such as are performed by the latter. The masticating Crustacea being the highest in point of organization, we shall commence our description with them,* and we shall even select for our particular consideration the spe- cies among these which have the class of organs about to be investigated of the most complex structure, namely, the Decapoda brachyura. In these animals the mouth is constantly situated on the inferior surface of the cephalic portion of the body. Two lips close it anteriorly and posteriorly ; the tipper Up or luhrum {a,jfig. 405) is a median piece in the form of a simple fold, and the loiver lip or langaette (c) is for the most part bifid. Be- tween these two pieces and on their sides are the mandibles, (jig. 406,) appendices of the fourth cephalic ring, modified so as to serve for mastication. As in the whole tribe of articu- * On this subject consult Saviyny Memoires sur les Animaux sans Vertebres, Ire fascicule; La- treille. Hist. Nat. des Crustaces et Insectes, &c. ; Cuvier, llcgne Animal ; Desmarest, Considerations sur les Crustaces ; Milne Edwards, Hist. Nat. des Fig. 406. Cuistaces, 1. p . 61. Nasticatory Organs of the Phylhsoimt. a, upper lip ; b, mandibles; c, lower lip ; d, maxillae. lated animals, these organs act laterally, and not upwards and downwards in the line of the axis of the body as in the vertebrate series univer- sally. They do not vary much in point of form among the Decapoda; in almost every one of the.se they are seen pos- sessed of a principal part terminated by a cutting edge, or a sur- face adapted for tritu- ration; and an appendage which appears to fasten the food and keep it steady during the process of mastication. The mandible itself, which is of extreme hardness, appears to be neither more nor less than the basilar piece of the member or appendage, of great strength and toothed. The articulated palp which it supports, in this mode of viewing the structure, would turn out to be a mere continuation of the stem (tige), and not a proper palp, as its name seems to imply, but which it has only acquired from its resem- blance to the appendage to which the term of right belongs. Such is the structure of the mouth among a certain number of the inferior Crustacea; but among those to which we now turn our atten- tion, we remark an addition of as many as five pairs of modified appendages situated behind the under lip, and all subservient to the pre- hension and the mastication of the food. The two first (figs. 406 and 407) are the most con- stant; and even when we get low in the series, and they have lost their special functions, they can still be traced, although of course only in a rudimentary state. When well developed they are without palps and are designated by the name of jaws. The three other pairs, again, soon cease to Fig. 407. appear as part of the implements of digestion, in order to show them- ; i I selves among the instru- ments of locomotion; sometimes, however, they seem to serve fur both kinds of function, a circumstance which has