BONE, PATHOLOGICAL CONDITIONS OF. 450 Curies from a scrofulous cause, generally, if not always, commences in tlie cancellated structure ; that from syphilis affects the firmer and more external parts of the bone. The former attacks the ends of the long bones and the spongy and cuboid bones generally; the latter, the centres of the long bones and the flat ones. Venereal nodes principally affect the bones which are nearest to the surface of the body, the skull, the tibia, or the sternum; it being rare to see the humerus or femur thus diseased, whilst they are by no means exempt from idiopathic or strumous inflammation. But the most remarkable difi'erences to be ob- served between caries arising from a specific cause, and that which occurs idiopathically or from injury in a constitution otherwise good, occur in the progress and termination of the disease. The process seems to be analogous to that of ulceration in the softer tissues, and when recovery takes place, it is by granulation and cicatrization in like manner. Thus, if we suppose an abscess to occur on the surface of a bone in a healthy man, when it is opened or has burst, we find that a scale or shell has lost its vitality and must be thrown off by exfo- liation, and soon exuberant and florid granula- tions are seen springing from below as if to force the offending substance off, and the dis- charge from the cavity is healthy pus. On the other hand, if a venereal node is opened on the skull, the pericranium is here detached, the table is carious and will exfoliate, but there is (as long as the taint remains) no effort at re- paration ; the discharge is thin, ichorous, and unhealthy ; and if we may judge by the repre- sentations we see of venereal caries, (for in modern times mercury is not so unsparingly used and real specimens are not numerous,) the disease would progress until the skull was fairly corroded through. Again, the lymph secreted in scrofulous inflammation is not healthy, and there are seldom granulations; whilst the matter is either of that whey-like appearance so remarkable in such affections, or else a foul and fetid sanies. Every one con- versant with surgery must know how tedious and obstinate a scrofulous caries is, and how frequently it involves the loss of limb or of life. The true scrofulous affection of the bones occurs so frequently in this country as to re- quire particular attention ; it constitutes the vast majority of the diseases of the osseous system that we are called upon to see and to treat. It commences (as we have said) in the cellular or cancellated structure. In the first instance there is an increase of vascularity, which, though not always apparent to the eye, may easily be proved by injection. Next, there is an absorption of the natural contents of the cancelli, and in their room a substance is deposited of a yellow or while colour that has been described as resembling cheese in consistence ; it is, however, most probably a species of that flocculent unorganized lymph, such as is seen coating the cysts of scrofulous abscesses. The cancelli themselves are oc- casionally removed, and masses or patches of this unorganized material deposited in their stead, hence the bone becomes lighter, and so soft as to allow of being cut with a knife. It is remarkable that the disease may have existed up to this period, when it is probably incura- ble, without much pain and without external swelling to attract attention to the mischief underneath. In the Museum of the School of Anatomy, &c. of Park-street, Dublin, there is a preparation to illustrate necrosis of the centre of the shaft of the thigh-bone, for which the limb was amputated. The patient during life never complained of the knee, neither was there the smallest enlargement of the articula- tion ; yet after removal the condyles of the femur internally were completely softened, the external shell of solid bone being reduced in thickness nearly to that of parchment, the can- cellated structure completely removed, and its place occupied by this cheesy substance. This condition of the bones is considered by Mr. Lloyd* as constituting the first stage of scrofulous disease, and he justly remarks that it is quite uncertain how long they may con- tinue in this state without further mischief taking place. The next step is the erosion or absorption of the cartilages, if the aflTection is situated in the head of a bone, (see Joint.) or otherwise near an articulation, and probably about the same period the external soft parts sympathise, and lymph is extensively deposited around the deep fibrous tissues in the neigh- bourhood. This lymph is afterwards to be- come the seat of abscesses, which always communicate with the diseased bone, and very generally with the cavity of the adjacent joint. The limb or part is now swollen : the tume- faction is round and well defined, tolerably firm in consistence, and elastic to the touch ; the colour of the skin is of a more than ordi- nary paleness, and its surface is marked by the meandering lines of numerous small blue veins. The growth of the tumour seems to be limited, for having reached a given size it becomes stationary and never increases, al- though the disease may appear at times even more fully developed. Subsequently the pain is very variable; that attending on scrofulous diseases being generally described as dull and heavy rather than acute, but this idea must be received with some limitation, for occasionally the very reverse is the truth. We have seen some patients the victims of most intense irri- tation and suffering throughout every stage of carious ulceration ; and even when it is other- wise, they are always liable to severe exacer- bations on any injudicious attempt at motion, any improper diet or other irregularity. In all cases there seems to be a considerable ag- gravation of symptoms, both local and consti- tutional, about the period when suppuration is established, and whilst the matter is progress- ing towards the surface. It may be a long time before the tumour gives indications of being about to burst exter- nally, partly perhaps from the imperfect organi- zation of the lymph by which the matter is ■* See Lloyd on Scrofula.