735 CRANIUM. two roots, there is a groove in which play the posterior fibres of tlie temporal muscle. The fossa articularis, wliich is between the roots, is bounded behind by the Glasserian fissure before mentioned; it forms, with the adjoining fossa parotidea, the glenoid cavity. The zygomatic process extends ibrwards about an inch from its anterior root; being, therefore, convex externally and concave internally. Its upper border gives attachment to the temporal fascia; its inferior (which is about half the length of the superior) to the masseter muscle. Its external surface is covered by the integu- ment, and its internal forms the outer boun- dary of the temporal fossa, in which is situ- ated the temporal muscle. Tlie extremity of the zygomatic process forms a point, on account of the under margin being bevelled and den- ticulated to articulate with the malar bone. The circumference of the squamous process is sharp, in all that part which is above the level of the zygomatic process, and denticu- lated, at the expense of its outer table, in the rest of its extent; so tliat it rests on the sphe- noid bone. The connexions of this bone and the me- chanical effects which result from its position, will be readily understood. Its petrous por- tion being wedged between the basilar process of the occipital bone, which serves it as a fulcrum, and the ala major of the sphenoid, which binds it against that fulcrum ; the in- ferior part of its squamous process resting on, and being sustained by the sphenoid bone, while its mastoid process is braced in by the posterior inferior angle of the parietal, and by the occipital bone—the fronting squamous margin will elfectually resist the lateral thrust of the parietal; the more so that a limited yielding movement is allowed at the fulcrum. The zygomatic process advancing forwards to the malar bone, will, with its fellow of the opposite side, give stability to the several bones of the face; and, in common with the pterygoid processes of the sphenoid bone, maintain the integrity of the various arches which they form. It is also connected with the lower jaw. This bone is developed from six points of ossification: viz. one for each of the three great divisions, and one each for the zygomatic and styloid processes and the auditory canal. At birth it consists of four pieces, the squa- mous («), mastoid (c), petrous, and an in- Fig. 374. complete bony ring (d), to which tfie mem- brane of the tympanum is attached. The bony ring is the first to join, by its upper part, the squamous; after which it is consolidated with the petrous, and then extends itself out- wards and backwards to form the meatus auditorius externus, and all the four pieces are then united. In infancy the bone sustains great changes; the squamous process from being straight becomes curved ; the zygomatic process recedes from the squamous and in- creases the space between them ; the mastoid portion becomes more tumid, is developed upwards and backwards, and sends forth the nipple-like process which gives to it its name. The eminentia articularis and fossa articularis from an oblique assume a transverse direction, and become, the one more concave, the other more convex. The styloid process, though ossified in its middle, is frequently, to an ad- vanced age, connected with the bone by carti- lage only. T\\e parietal hone (on parietale; Germ, die ScIteite/lieineoderSeitenbeiiie) (fg.372, 373 P) constitutes with its fellow the greater portion of the vault of the skull, and forms with it a sort of bridge, the corners of which on each side are fixed, the one on the great wing of the sphenoid, the other on the mastoid process of the temporal bone, the squamous process of which braces in the intervening space. The external surface offers in its centre a prominence which marks the spot at which ossification commenced; and it marks also the widest part of the skull. Below this is a semicircular line (the linea temporalis), to which are attached the temporal fascia and muscle; still more inferiorly is a plane surface occupied by the temporal muscle; and be- tween it and the lower border, is a lunated articular portion with converging strias, to be applied against the squamous portion of the temporal bone. Near the posterior part of the bone and a little removed from its upper border is the foramen parietdle, for the passage of a vein to the longitudinal sinus. The inner surface exhibits the usual indi- cations of the convolutions of the brain, and also arborescent sulci, which mainly proceed from the anterior inferior angle of the bone, and are directed upwards and backwards to the fossa purictalis, which answers to the pa- rietal prominence on the outer surface; these sulci lodge the branches of the middle menin- geal artery. Along the upper border is a de- pression, which, with a similarly disposed edge of the other bone, forms a groove for the lodgement of the longitudinal sinus, and hence is termed sulcus longitudinalis; near to it are sometimes seen small depressions (foss<B Pacchionii) for the granulations of the dura mater, called glandulfe Pacchionii externse. The borders are of various lengths; the superior is the longest, the irferior is the shortest, and the anterior is longer than the posterior. The superior is united to the same border of the opposite bone by the regular interchange of serrations of the outer table ; the anterior and posterior reverse the arrange-