332 AVES. ago that the extremities of the semilunar valves Fig. 170. in Birds were connected to small, firm, and sometimes ossified styles imbedded iii the fibrous coat of the vessels. The arrangement of the muscular fibres of the ventricle m I3irds is such that the right ventricle appears to be formed by a partial secession of the outer from the inner layers of the parietes of the left ventricle at the anterior and right side of that cavity. See the transverse section, <f g- .169.) Arteries.'—The distribution of the arterial system has been described in a general man- ner by Cuvier, Tiedemann, and Nitzsch, and has subsequently been very completely elu- cidated by Barkow in tlie 12th Volume of Meckel's Archives of Physiology ; where the different varieties which various species of birds present in the course of individual arteries are laboriously pointed out. In our own dis- sections we have been guided by the excellent description long ago given by Dr. Macartney. {Art. Birds, Rees' Cyclopaedia) which we shall here give verbatim, with some general remarks and additional particulars afforded by the re- searches of Barkow and our own dissections. The description will be aided by the subjoined beautiful figure taken from Barkow's Mono- graph {Jig. 170). The arterial system in Birds is essentially distmguished from that of Mammals by tlie following differences:— 1st. The division of the aorta into three principal branches, almost immediately at its origin. 2d. The course of the arch of the aorta over the right instead of the left bronchus to become ^^^^^ . g^^j^ the descending aorta. 3d. The origin of the arteries of the posterior chus, " and, on reaching the back part of the extremities, which do not come off from a single heart, becomes the descending aorta. branch analogous to the external iliac of Mam- " The arteria innorninuta (3) first sends off malia, but from two arteries which are detached the common trunk of the carotid and vertebral successively from the aorta at a great distance arteries (4), which before its division gives off from each other, and pass from the pelvis by one or two small branches; one of these runs two separate apertures. down upon the lungs in company with the par The arteries of the systemic circulation vagum, and appears to supply branches to the proceed. Macartney observes, " from a single aponeurosis of the lungs, and the air-cells at trunk, which arises from the left ventricle of the upper part of the thorax; the other branch, the heart. This trunk, the aorta, (1,170) after supplying the lymphatic gland of the is so short that it is concealed by the other neck with several small arteries, ascends upon parts on the basis of the heart, and is only the side of the oesophagus, to which, and the brought into view after the reflections of the inferior larynx, the divisions of the trachea, pericardium and the adjoining vessels are de- and to the parts and integuments of the side of tached by dissection. It is from thence that the neck, its branches are distributed, anasto- as the parts are commonly beheld, there appear mosing with the superior oesophageal and tra- to be three great arteries issuing together from cheal arteries. This branch is often not sent the middle of the heart, which are the primary off until the trunk divides into the vertebral and branches into which the aorta is divided. The carotid, in which case it comes from the latter first branch is to the left side, and after it is artery. Sometimes in the Duck, the supra- sent off, the trunk affects to turn over the au- scapular artery, which is usually divided from ricle before it gives the branch of the right the vertebral, is a branch of the common trunk." side; these two branches pass in a curved The crtro^/rf arteries (4, 'I, Jig. 170, m u, Jig. manner from the heart towards the axilla in 167) are frequently of unequal size; intheDab- the form of horns, and each is analogous to chick the left is by much the largest; in the the arteria innominata of the human subject, Emeu we found it the smallest. "IntheCom- so that instead of one there may be reckoned mon Fowl, each carotid, after parting from the two arteries innominatte in Birds (i t, Jig. 167, vertebral artery (6), proceeds to the middle of the 168). After these branches are parted with, the neck and soon disappears; becoming covered by arterial trunk (s, fg. 167, 168, 2, Jig. 170) is the muscles of the anterior part of the neck, and continued over the auricles," and the right bron- entering the canal formed by the inferior spinoui