171 ANNELIDA. especial manner subservient to respiration, are simply a kind of papillae or laminated cutane- ous productions very little or not at all sub- divided, attached either to the extremity or base of the feet and distributed in an almost uniform manner over the entire length of the body, (fig- 64, f,,f,J-) In the ewnfce, and other allied genera, their position is the same, but they assume the form of an elongated filament, furnished with a series of prolongations of a similar filiform shape, disposed like the teeth of a comb, and traversed longitudinally by a canal filled with red blood, (jig. 73,./.) In the amphinomian family, Fig. 73. as in the former groups, these branchiae are placed on almost every segment of the body, so that these / organs form along the whole extent of the back a double row ; but here their struc- ture is more complicated,for the filaments are extremely subdivided, (fig. 63, /.) In the arenicola;, the form of the branchiae is almost the same as in the amphinomes, but they are limited in their position to the middle seg- ments of the body. In the genus terebella the branchiae are also highly ramified vascular appendages to the integument, but their num- ber is inconsiderable, and they are all inserted near the cephalic extremity of the back. In the serpulae, the membrane which forms a sort of thoracic disc near the cephalic ex- tremity of the body, ought to be regarded as an organ of respiration, and it is probable that the tentacles surrounding the mouth like a crown of plumes are subservient to the same function.* In the hirudince respiration is in part effected by the external skin, but there exists in these annelida a series of small mem- branous sacs, which communicate externally each by a minute orifice situated on the ven- tral aspect of the body : these sacs derive from the numerous vessels which ramify upon their parietes a considerable quantity of blood. Water penetrates into these organs and seems to subserve a true respiratory purpose. These sacs are commonly denominated ' pulmonary sacs,' and some authors think that they receive into their interior atmospheric air in a gaseous form. Their number varies from fifteen to twenty, and it may be observed, when a living leech is irritated after being recently removed from water, that a small quantity of liquid escapes from their apertures. In the lumbrici terrestres there is in like manner found in each segment and on eitherside of the digestive tube, an enteroid vessel folded upon itself, containing a liquid and opening outwardly by a particular pore. These sacs are less vascular than in the leeches; never- theless there is reason to believe that they fulfil an analogous office, and perform a more or less * See, for additional details, the \vorl<s already cited of Savigny, De Blainville, and Audouin and Milne Edwards. important part in respiration. Lastly, it has been proved that in the annelida there are other pores, placed on the back, which tra- verse directly the dermo-muscular envelope, and communicate with a cavity intermediate to the muscles and intestines, and imperfectly divided by transverse septa, into which air or water can penetrate. This structure may, indeed, belong to the respiratory apparatus, but science does not yet possess sufficient data to solve that question. An analogous dis- position has been observed in the nais.* Generation.— The generative apparatus is only very imperfectly understood in the anne- lida. It appears tliat all these animals are hermaphrodite, but that they cannot fecundate themselves; the intercourse of two individuals being necessary for the accomplishment of the act of generation. It is in the earthworm and leech that this part of their anatomy and phy- siology has been most completely studied. In the leeches the sexual apertures are placed at the inferior surface of the body towards the anterior third, and separated from one another by the intervention of five segments. The anterior aperture belongs to the male organs, and at the season of reproduction a filiform and highly contractile penis is observed to be protruded from that part, (fig. 74, 75, a.) Fig. 75. This communicates in- ternally with a narrow cylindrical canal (6), which in its turn opens into a kind of whitish vesicle of a pyriform shape (c) commonly cal- led the vesiculu seini- nalis. On each side of this vesicle there is an oval whitisli body (d) composed of con- torted tubes filled with a whitish liquid : each of these organs is a testicle; and they seve- rally give origin to a slender vas deferens (fig. 75, e) of the same colour, which opens into the vesicula seminalis. Lastly, from the posterior extremity of the testicle, another fili- form duct (_/■) is continued,which passes back- wards on each side of the nervous cord, and gives origin to a series of pedunculated vesicles filled with a whitish fluid similar to that which * For the structure of the pulmonary sacs, see Willis, op. cit. Thomas, ' Memoires pour servir a I'Histoire Naturclle des Sangsues.' Home ' Lec- tures on Comp. Anatomy,' Moquin Tandon, op. cit. Morren dc Lumbric. tcrrest. Duges, op. cit.