125 ANIMAL. ^jhoipliorus, for example, aud sulphur. The earth afforded by animal bodies incinerated, is mostly lime in a state of saline combination ; whilst that yielded by vegetables, besides lime, consists of alumina, with an admixture, greater or smaller in amount, of scilica. The peculiar combinations which form what are called immediate principles, are much more numerous in the vegetable than in the animal kingdom, and are also generally more simple in the former than in the latter, the immediate principles of vegetables being mostly ternary compounds, whilst those of animals are gene- rally quaternary, nitrogen being added in these last to the carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, which form the organic elements of the first. The immediate principles in both classes are divided into acids and oxides; and many of these they have in common. Vegetables, however, have a third order of substances entering into their composition, of which we discover no traces among animals; these are the vegetable sali- fiable bases. There are but few acids which exist in the vegetable and animal kingdoms in common; and whilst their number is small among ani- mals, it is very great among vegetables. The hydrocyanic acid has only been dis- covered in vegetables; when it is procured from animal substances, it is always formed un- der peculiar circumstances, or during their de- composition. Of the organic o.rfWes, some—albumen, osma- zome, sugar—are common to both animals and vegetables ; but they occur in very different proportions in each : sugar, which is so abundant among plants, is scarcely to be detected among animals ; and osmazome, which is so univer- sally distributed among animals, has only hitherto been discovered in a few fungi. Of the ternary compounds of carbon, hydrogen, and oxy- gen, such as starch,gum, sugar, the resins, woudy fibre, fixed oils, volatile uUs, camphor, extractive matter,i^ c. which enter so largely into the consti- tution of vegetables, there are but a very few to be discovered among animals, such as the sugar of the milk and urine, the resin of the bile and of the urine, the elaine and stearine of the fat, the volatile oily principle of castoreum, &c. and the camphor of cantharides. The quaternary organic compounds of car- bon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen, which form the principal elements in the composition of the bodies of animals, are, on the contrary, very rare among vegetables. The most com- mon of these are albumen, gelatine, fibrine, animal mucus, and osmazome ; the less com- mon enumerated are the matter of the saliva, caseous matter, urea, and the pigmentary mat- ter of the eye. Still vegetkbles are not without several of these quaternary compounds, such as albumen and osmazome, and they even possess others which are peculiar to themselves, such as gluten, the matter of the pollen of flowers, indigo and several extractive colouring principles ; to say nothing of the whole exclusive class of salifiable bases, quinia, cinchonia, veratria, strychnia, morphia, &r., &c., which appear to be com- pounds of carbon, united in large proportion with a little oxygen, hydrogen, and nitrogen. Comparison of the oiganic composition or texture of animals and vegetables.—We find many and much more striking differences in the texture than in the chemical composition of the two great classes of organized beings. Both are made up of solids and fluids; but with a few exceptions, the proportion wnich the solid bear to the fluid parts is much greater in vegetables than in animals. The fluids contained in the bodies of the higher animals, the blood, chyle, spermatic fluid, bile, urine, &c. have in general a very different character from those that constitute the sap of the more perfect vegetables, or that are deposited as secretions in the nectaries and various cavities of their flowers, leaf-stalks, stem, &c. But the solids, entering into the composition of each class, are still more widely dissimilar both in their outward and in their intimate characters. The most simple vegetables, the cryptogamia, appear to consist of a homo- geneous tissue, forming rounded or oblong cells filled with fluids or a granular substance, with- out any trace of proper tissue; it is only when we come to the phanogamous vegeta- bles that we find any distinction of tissues, namely, a cellular and a tubular tissue, the whole body of the plant being surrounded with a distinct integument or bark. The cellular tissue of vegetables, whilst still young, is soft, homogeneous, and contains cellules filled with a fluid often charged with globules; when full grown, this tissue is made up of cells properly so called, being spaces surrounded with solid membranous parietes of various forms and sizes containing different matters. These cells appear composed of vesi- cles placed side by side and running one into anotlier, surrounding the spiral and nutrient vessels of the stem and bark, and opening so as to form reservoirs filled with air, or resinous, oily, or mucilaginous fluids. The tubular or vascular tissue of vegetables occurs under two diflTerent forms—spiral vessels, and nutrient vessels. The former present themselves in great abundance amidst the woody fibres, but penetrate also into the leaves, and even into the stamina, pistilla, and fruit. They are not met with in the bark. These vessels seem specially destined to include and conduct the sap, which from the root ascends to the extreme branches and leaves of all vege- tables. The nutrient vessels, so called from con- taining a fluid, the cambium or succus proprius, different from the sap, prepared from this by elaboration in the leaves, have now been demon- strated in a great number of vegetables; they are principally contained in the soft inner layer of the bark, but they also penetrate every part for the purpose of conveying the essentially nutritive juice or blood of the plant. These elementary tissues, combined and arranged in a great variety of modes, constitute the root, trunk, leaves, flowers, and fruit of all vascular vegetables; and it is wonderful how nearly the whole of this tribe, however dis-