789 CYST. being almost constantly lined by an inorganic coat, which is sometimes susceptible of being divided into laminae; when this coat is re- moved, there remains a very thin cellular mem- brane. If the lining membrane be irritated, the secretion as well as the membrane may be modified ; and the variety of these subcuta- neous tumours is thus explained. Other cysts differently formed appear to ar- range themselves most naturally in this class ; of such are those which succeed to the ob- struction of a salivary duct, ranula for instance ; those which succeed to a fistulous canal, and are produced by the obliteration of the orifices of such canal; the mucous tissue by which the canal was previously invested becomes changed in its organization, and a serous cha- racteris acquired:—those which are occasionally produced in the lungs, by the obliteration of the canal of communication between a tuber- cular cavity and a bronchus; in this case also a serous membrane is developed within the cavity. l^fie second class.—Every foreign body, fluid or solid, formed within or derived from with- out tlie animal economy, induces in that eco- nomy an effort at expulsion. Whetlier the body be a shot, a bullet, or other projectile, or whether it be extravasated blood, stone in the bladder, the fcetus in extra-uterine pregnancy, acephalocysts, tubercle, or other heterologous or analogous formation; in all cases irritation or inflammation is developed, for the purpose of expelling or isolating the nocuous body. If it be in its nature irritating, it excites in- flammation, and is expelled with the pus which has been secreted around it; if it have no mechanically or chemically irritating property, it may remain in the midst of the organ, some- times passing from cell to cell, obedient al- ways to a kind of eccentric movement; some- times nature isolates it by organising around it a cyst which is adherent by its external surface to the surrounding tissues, but which is free and smooth internally,—furnishing a fluid by which many of these bodies may be broken down, and as soon as they are removed, the walls of the cyst become reduced into cellular tissue by absorption. Frequent opportunities are afforded for ex- amining these structures in the cellular tissue. When a certain quantity of a succulent fluid is accumulated in this structure, if it cease to increase, the parietes of the cavity which con- tains it continues to be the seat of a chronic inflammation by which the formation of a ct/st is determined. Until the organisation of this cyst is perfected, the surrounding cellular tissue continues red and indurated; but as soon as the organ is completed, this redness and in- duration are commonly in progress of dis- sipation ; in some cases, however, they remain, and then it occasionally happens that the cyst participates in the morbid action, and the in- terior of the cyst may have a pseudo-membrane developed on its surface. Ci/sts so developed are at their commencement soft, not very con- sistent, and may be easily detached from the surrounding structure. The inflamed stratum, between the cyst and the adjacent health"' tissue, gradually acquires a greater density and more power of resistance, at the same time that it becomes thinner, and contracts a more intimate union with the proper membrane of the cyst. When the organisation of this spe- cies of cyst is completed, the membrane is whitish, opaque, more or less thick, and as a point of comparison, denser, and thicker than a serous membrane, and it presents a surface somewhat similar to that membrane. In making a third class, it must be obvious that we incline to the opinion of Delpech, " that certain cysts do not proceed from an accidental and mechanical modification of the cellular tissue," but that they are so many new organs, so many newly developed tissues, which do not possess either the same degree or even the same kind of vitality as the surround- hig parts. In this class we range those which contain a serous or sero-mucous fluid, which are de- veloped in various parts of the body. Their parietes are sometimes transparent, at others opaque; upon their inner surface they usually present a kind of tomentum or velvet-like tex- ture, sometimes it presents hair. Their ex- ternal surface is sometimes free on all sides except that upon which the vascular commu- nication obtains, sometimes they are com- pletely adherent. They are observed free and almost floating in the cerebral cavities, in the kidney, the liver, the lungs, and in all serous cavities. We also include in this class certain syno- vial cysts, which are observed around the articulations of the hand, of the foot, some- times of the knee, and in the neighbourhood of the sheaths of tendons. Some persons have been disposed to refer the origin of these organs to a displacement of the synovial mem- brane which has yielded at this point; but ob- servation has demonstrated that they are cysts with dense and fibrous external, and serous internal parietes, developed in the cellular tissue surrounding the normal synovial sac. In the same class we place a species of cyst developed, so far as we yet know, under the anterior annular ligament of the carpal articu- lation,—-more rarely in the vicinity of the tibio-tarsal articulation, but always around sy- novial sacs or tendons, and essentially con- stituted of small white bodies, in appearance similar to small grains of boiled rice. Of the serous cysts, we may frequently find some very small, and, as nearly as may be, empty, the membrane being puckered and plicated, and in contact with itself at points where the plicse meet. At a certain period of their existence there is scarcely a particle of fluid accumulated in them, and of course the first exaggerated exhalation which has place will be lodged without any obstacle in the cavity, the plicae will be effaced, and the pa- rietes removed to a certain distance, the one from the other. It is probable that this pro- portion between the cyst and its contents is maintained until some irritation shall acce- lerate the exhalation, much as in the serous cavities of the body. This exhalation is some- imes so abundant and rapid that the parietes