ANUS. 174 distinct stomacli exists, and where the retained matter obviously undergoes certain changes, the one orifice serves the two-fold purpose of admission to the food, as well as of exit to its residuum. Even in some of the echino- dermata, as the asteriae, in which the digestive apparatus is more developed, the central cavity becoming more complex, the latter is still but a cul de sac, which can be protruded at the mouth, the only orifice it presents. In other species, however, of this class, the anus ap- pears; thus in the English echinus, where the masticating apparatus is so remarkable, this opening exists on the surface of the animal, opposite to the mouth.* In the sipunculi the anus opens near the mouth, and in the holothuriae near the respira- tory organ.t In the several families of the articulata, viz. insecta, Crustacea, and vermes, the anus exists, and is always found at that end of the animal opposite to the mouth, and most generally on its inferior surface. In the moUusca it is also present, but it holds situations singularly differing in the different orders and genera of this class; thus in the cephalopoda, as the cuttle-fish, the rectum opens into a sort of cloaca, which is situated before the neck, and which also re- ceives the semen and ova, as well as the secretion from the ink-bag. In the gastero- poda, as the slug, it is generally found near the pulmonary cavity. In the patella or limpet, however, it opens on the head, and in the doris on the back, surrounded by a delicate fringe, a sort of branchial tuft. In most of the acephala, except the oyster, the rectum extends along the back of the animal, beneath the hinge, and above the respirdtory organs; it then passes through the heart, and opens above the posterior muscle of the shells, into the cavity of the maulle, or between its edges, the anal opening presenting the appear- ance of a fleshy disc or sphincter. Among fishes the anus varies, in the osseous and cartilaginous divisions of this class ; in the former it usually presents the appearance of a round opening leading into a longitudinal groove ; it is placed in front of the anal fin, and of the urinary and genital aperture, contrary to what occurs in all other vertebral animals. In the cartilaginous fish, as the ray and shark, this groove is deeper, and has the appearance of a true cloaca, through which are discharged, as in the sepice and in birds, not only the alvine, but also the urinal a"nd seminal excretions. In reptiles the anus serves as the opening of a cloaca, or common receptacle of the re- siduum of the food, as well as of the urine, semen, or ova; in the batrachia, as the frog, it is situated at the end of the back, and there- fore above the body of the animal. In the chelonia, as the tortoise, it is under the tail. In the sauria and ophidia it is a transverse cleft, but in the salamander it is a longitudinal fissure with two prominent lips. * Home's Lect. oa Comp. Anat. vol. ii. p. 76. t Cuvier's Comp. Anat. t. iv. p. 143. In birds the rectum expands above the anus into the cloaca, which also receives the ter- minations of the ureters, the ends of the vasa deferentia, and the penis (when the latter exists); also the openings of the oviducts, and of the bursa Fabricii. In all the mammalia the rectum terminates in a distinct anal open- ing, which is placed at the posterior or in- ferior extremity of the trunk, directly under the origin of the tail, and usually in a direc- tion opposite to the mouth, and in all it is placed behind, and not, as in fish, before the urinary and sexual orifice; in some few of the quadrumana, as the mandril, it is directed upwards. In almost all mammalia it is a dis- tinct orifice, giving passage to the faeces only ; in the beaver and sloth, however, the rectum and urethra have a common termination. The monotrematous animals also, such as the echidni and ornithorhynci, form a complete ex- ception to this statement; in these singular and anomalous creatures a single opening gives exit to the faecal and urinary secretions, and also subserves sexual purposes. (See Intes- tinal Canal.) ANUS (in human anatomy). In the present article we propose to examine not merely the structures which immediately bound this open- ing in man, in their normal and healthy state, as well as in their abnormal and diseased condi- tions, but we shall also examine the parts which enclose and surround it, and which can exert an influence, direct or indirect, on its functions ; that is, we shall consider the anatomy, normal and abnormal, of the parts contained in the Anal Region. The Anal Region is synonymous with the posterior portion of the permaeum ; its triangular area is denoted by the following outlines : the apex, which is posterior and superior, is marked by the extremity of the os coccygis; its base, which is before and below the latter, is defined by an imaginary line extending transversely from one tuber ischii to the other, and each side is denoted by aline drawn from the last named process to the point of the coccyx : these lateral boundaries correspond to the mar- gins of the glutaei maximi muscles, which over- lap the inferior or the great sacro-sciatic liga- ments ; the base or the transverse line before mentioned, separates the anal from the anterior perineal or urethral region : in the adult male this line will be found to be about three inches, or nearly three inches and a quarter in length ; in the female it is about half an inch longer, and more certainly so if the individual ex- amined have borne children ; great variety, how- ever, has been found to exist in this measure- ment, the extremes of which may be stated at two and four inches. In children under twelve years of age this transverse diameter of the perinaeum is considerably less, in consequence of the extreme narrowness of the pelvis prior to puberty. Tiie anal region contains the lower portion of the intestinum rectum, several muscles, and fasciae, some nerves and vessels of importance, and an abundance of adipose substance. The