AMPHIBIA. 100 simple structure of these pulmonary sacs, it will readily be seen that the function of respiration could be only very ineffectively aided by the latter organs, even were there no other diffi- culty arising from the imperfect structure of the apparatus which in the air-breathing amphibia serves the office of conveying the air into the lungs. A short description of the means by which the act of inspiration is effected in the frog will enable us to judge how far it may be possible that the rudimentary lungs in the pro- ieus and si?-en are to be considered as performing any such function. In the adult frog, toad, salamander, and all others of the higher orders of amphibia, the reception of air into the lungs is effected not by the primary expansion of the pulmonic cavity and the consequent rush of air into it, but by the act of forcing air into the lungs, or in fact by a simple act of swallowing. This is eflected in the following manner. The os hyoides and tongue are brought downwards to a considerable extent, and the cavity of the mouth being thus much enlarged, the air enters by the nostrils. The pharynx is then shut at the posterior part, so as to prevent the passage of air into the oeso- phagus, and the cavity being suddenly con- tracted by means of the muscles acting on the OS hyoides, the air is necessarily forced through the glottis and trachea into the lungs, as the posterior nares are closed either by their mar- gins acting as a valve, or by the pressure of the tongue against them. This view of the mode of inspiration explains the cause of the well- known fact, that if the mouth of frogs be held open they perish from actual suflbcation ; for the motions of the os hyoides being thus im- peded, and an external passage being also afforded for the air, respiration by the injection of air into the lungs is obviously impossible. Any other mode of inspiration, connected with the primary expansion of the thoraco-abdo- minal cavity is obviously impossible in the frog and its congeners, from the total absence of ribs. It may not be out of place to explain here the mode in which the peculiar noise uttered by the male frog, called croaking, is produced.* Ac- cording to the observations of P. Camper, the inspired air is forced against the inferior surface of the tongue, the protuberance of which di- vides it as it were into two currents, which pass into the membranous sacs adhering to the lower jaw and existing exclusively in the males. From these sacs it is directed over the tongue, and by its vibration the peculiar sound in ques- tion is produced. It is an interesting question whether in the perennibranchiate amphibia, the organs which have just been described as rudimentary lungs, do ever serve the purposes of respiration in even the smallest degree; and it is one of no small difficulty. The superficial structure of the nares in the siren and the proteus, in which they almost exactly resemble those of fishes, and which would preclude the mode of inspi- ration practised by the frogs, together with tiie slight and attenuated character of the mem- * Comment. Soc. Reg, Scient. Getting, v. ix. branous tube and sacs, would almost lead to the conclusion, assumed by Rusconi,that in the proteus at least these organs do not exercise any function appertaining to respiration. If these animals be confined for a considerable time in the same water, the branchiae become purple instead of having the florid red colour which characterizes them in a healthy state, and they die asphyxiated. On the other hand, the very excitement of the two sacs, accom- panied by tubes of such length, and opening to the pharynx by a sort of simple glottis, go- verned by a distinct muscular apparatus, would seem to warrant the opinion that a nearer affi- nity to true lungs is to be traced in these organs than in the air-bag of fishes, though recent observations have shewn the latter organ to be analogous to the lowest rudimentary state of lungs in the higher animals. The chain of affinities, therefore, is here perfect, as far as re- gards the pulmonary cavities. VII. The nervous system.—The centre of the nervous system offers a not less striking in- stance of the progressive development of the am- phibia in their passage from the pisciform to the reptile state than those which we have already shewn in the organs of the other functions of the body. The condition of the brain in the early state of the frog tadpole, the genus in which the changes are most strongly marked, is almost ex- actly that which it possesses in the fishes. The linear arrangement of the different lobes, the broad and lobed form of the medulla oblongata, the small cerebellum, the lai^e size of the op- tic thalami, with the distinct ventricles which they contain, and the very diminutive extent of the hemispheres, all evince a low degree of development, and one not yet emerged from that which we find in the brain of fishes. The same imperfect character is also observed in the spinal marrow, which even in the frog is con- tinued into numerous coccygeal vertebrae, and as the extremities are not yet in existence, is devoid of those enlargements which afterwards take place where the nerves of the anterior and posterior members are given off. The brain becomes developed, however, in a very short period ; the changes which take place being very rapid, though at last not very considerable; the hemispheres become enlarged, expanding laterally and in some measure upwards, con- stituting the first step towards that superiority in position, as well as in size, over the other lobes, which is so conspicuous a character of these important portions of the brain in the higher animals. Fig. 28. represents the brain Fifr. 28. fl, pnenmogastric nerve; ?;irttar;t[c;''5fff- cial ; 6, the eye ; 7, optic nerve and its tubercle ; 8 and 9, base of the hemi- spheres ; 10, anterior por- tion of ditto ; 11, pedicle of olfactory lobe. in the common frog after Serres. As the limbs begin to make their appearance, the enlarge-