643 CIRCUI^TION. der, and tail. There is, however, cotisideiable variety in regard to the distribution of the posterior abdominal veins in fishes; and com- parative anatomists do not appear as yet to nave connected these varieties with any general view of their uses. In the Gadus the venous blood from the tail and middle of the ab- domen goes to the kidneys only by venae ad- vehentes. In the Silurus the blood of the posterior parts of the body is carried to both the kidneys and liver; and in the carp, pike, and perch, to the kidneys, liver, and vena cava at once. The blood from the testicle, ovary, swimming bladder, and kidneys, most frequently goes to the vena cava.* Courne of the. blood in Invertebrate Animals. —In investigating the course of the blood in animals destitute of a vertebral column and cerebro-spinal nervous system, we are no longer guided by any such analogies of form, posi- tion, and ii'^e, as those just attempted to be traced in the circulatory organs of the Ver- tebrata ; for each class of Invertebrate animals, as Mollusca, Articulata, and Zoophyta, and even their subordinate orders, differ so widely from one another in their organization, that we are at a loss to discover any general plan or type to which their circulatory organs may be referred. In all of the Invertebrate animals in which there is a regular progressive motion of the nutritive fluids, there exists also a central con- tractile organ to which the name of heart is applied, from its functional rather than struc- tural analogy to the central propelling organ of the circulation in Vertebrate animals; and in many of them, the outgoing and returning vessels in which the circulation is performed may be distinguished into arteries and veins, by a difference of structure as well as of office. I'l'om the same kind of analogy, the name of auricle is given to the weaker part of the heart of Invertebrate animals, which serves to re- ceive the returning blood from the veins, when such a cavity exists, and we call ventricle the stronger and more muscular part which propels the blood into the arteries. The general form of these parts, however, and their position relatively to the other systems, render it ex- tremely difficult, if not altogether impossible, to trace any strict anatomical correspondence between the heart and bloodvessels of \ erte- brate and Invertebrate animals. In the Inver- tebrate animals, the heart and principal artery are generally placed on the upper part of the body, above the alimentary canal and largest portions of the nervous system; while in all Vertebrate animals the order is reversed, the brain and spinal marrow being above, the heart below the alimentary Canal. In the Invertebrula, as in the higher animals, the respiratory change of the blood is the most important function to which its course or cir- culation bears a constant relation. In the Verlebrata the blood flows from the heart to • See the papers of JacobsoQ and Nicolai al- ready referred to, and the extended Researches of Rathke, Meckel's Archiv, 1826, and Annal. des Sciences Nat. torn. ix. the respiratory organ, while in the Invertebrata the blood very generally arrives at the heart after having passed through the respiratory organ, and is propelled from the heart into the systemic circulation : the vessels, therefore, in which respiration is effected in the lower ani- mals may be considered as belonging in ge- neral to the venous circulation only, while in the higher classes of animals, arteries alone, or arteries and veins together, conduct the blood through the respiratory organ. Another remarkable difference between the circulation of the nutritive fluids in Vertebrated animals and that in the Invertebrate classes consists in this, that in the first the digested food or chyle and the lymph are taken up by a system of vessels distinct from those circulating blood, and are poured into the venous circulation at one or more determinate places; while in the latter animals, the bloodvessels, so far at least as we yet know, perform the office of lacteal and lymphatic absorbent vessels as well as of circulatoiy organs. In the Invertebrate animals also, there is no vena portae, as in the Vertebiata, and the liver is supplied with blood only by a hepatic artery. In investigating the structure of the circu- latory organs in different classes of Inverte- brate animals, we at once perceive that no accurate correspondence can be traced between the varieties of their forms and the places assigned to the animals in a Zoological arrange- ment; for we find among the Mollusca some tribes having a highly developed and compli- cated circulatory apparatus, and others with heart and bloodvessels comparatively simply organized. The same discrepancy occurs among the Crustacea, Annelida, and Insects; and among the Entozoa and some other tribes of Zoophytes, while some possess a simple circulatory apparatus, in others we are not able to discover any vestige of a vascular system. There is a considerable number of the lower animals in which no vascular system has yet been discovered, and in which the nutritious juices are supposed to pass from the alimentary cavity by interstitial transudation through all the parts of their bodies. The circulation has, how- ever, been recently shewn to exist in animals formerly believed to be without it, and the farther progress of Comparative Anatomy may diminish still more the number of animals believed to be destitute of circulating organs: in the present state of our knowledge, it is therefore as difficult to say with certainty in what animals this function is deficient, as it i* to fix in which it is of the most simple or most complicated kind. Mollusca.—The greater number of the Mol- lusca live in water and breathe by means of gills, but many aquatic Mollusca, possessing a branchial apparatus, appear to have their blood aerated in other parts of the body also. There is a strong muscular heart in all the ani- mals belonging to this class, which when single is always systemic, C_^^'s. 320,321, and 322, if.) In the Cephalopoda, besides the aortic or sys- temic heart, which has only one cavity or ventricle, each vessel (Jig. 320, B) leading to