433 BLOOD, NORMAL ANATOMY. cellular texture no one denies. In the next place he endeavours to establish its reticular texture; 1st, by observations and experiments on the bones of a chick, made during its growth; 2d, by treating bones with dilute muriatic acid, and then putting them in oil of turpentine to render them transparent. In every bone, he says, the net-work was conspicuous. He observed the same in rickets, in exostosis, and in callus; and still more remarkably in the bones of the amphibia, reptiles, and fishes. The conclusion at which Bichat arrived is not very different: " Ces lames osseuses ne me paroissent point exister dans la nature." " Considerons ie tissu compact comme un assemblage de fibres rapprochees mais nuUement separees par couche."* Blumenbach and Meckel in- cline to the lamellar airangement. More re- cently bone has been submitted to microscopic examination by Mr. Ilowsiiip, who agrees with Scarpa that the ultmiate texture of bone is not lamellated but reticular. He coincides, too, in opinion with Havers and Leuwenhoeck as to the existence of minute longitudinal canals in it; and he adds that the canals communicate freely with each other, and that a fine vascular membrane lines them in the foetus, where they may be seen projecting into the temporary car- tilage during the growth of bone in the form of fibres which are tubular.f Bostock says, " the membrane of bone is composed of plate.« very similar in their general form to those of the cellular texture, and it is probable that the earthy matter is inserted between these plates, and thus is likewise disposed to assume the laminated structure." And again : " As we may presume that the earthy part of the bone is moulded into its approyiriate form by the membrane into which it is deposited, we may judge of the structure of the latter by that of the former, which, from its firmer consistence, it is more easy to ascertain. Now, whether we examine bone during its formation in the fa;tal state, or after it has had its membrane destroyed by the action of fire, we find the earth to assume the appearance of fibres, which, when the bone is perfected, have a tendency to a laminated arrangement."!; It is plain, from the quotations we have made from some of the most distinguished •writers on the structure of bone, that all before the time of Scarpa considered it laminated, or fibrous and laminated, while all, after his publication, looked upon it as cellular. In the former, however, we see some intimations of a reticular texture ; in the latter we hear of a tendenct/ or a disposition to a laminated ar- rangement. If, with these opinions before us, we come to examine for ourselves, I think we shall have no hesitation in agreeing with Scarpa that it is cellular. At the same time it must be confessed that the sides of the cells are, in the compact tissue, so pressed together that the appearance of laminae is often very striking, * Anat. Gencr. tome iii. pp. 24-6. Par. 1812. t Medico-Chirurgical Trans, vols. vi. and'vii. t Bostock's Elementary System of Physiology, vol. i. VOL. I. and, again, that the sides of the cells have, in most places, the appearance of fibres. When the earthy portion is removed by an acid, we can teaze out the membranous portion with a pin, and almost demonstrate the fibres. But a closer examination will show that we have torn the cells and destroyed the true texture. The laminated disposition supposed to be shown by exfoliation, the weather, burning, &c. may all be proved to be deceptive; and, indeed, there seldom can be exhibited a plate, however small, of equal thickness throughout, which has been removed by any of these agents. There is, however, an approach to the laminated ar- rangement, and every cell is formed of parti- cles which approach to the form of fibres. The longitudinal canals of Havers, Leuwenhoeck, and Ilowship, probably result from the flattened cells, and may be deceptive appearances in the old bone, or the channels for bloodvessels, &c. 2. The periosteu7n and medulla, and ^he organization of bone us a part of the living system. A. The periosteum Ls a fibrous membrane of a dull white colour. It covers bone on every part of its circumference, except where enamel takes its place as on the teeth, or car- tilage as on the articular extremities, or fibro- cartilage as where tendons play, or tendon as on sesamoid bones. The fibres which compose it run in different directions and form a tissue of great strength. On the long bones the greater number of fibres take a longitudinal direction. The superficial ones extend for a considerable length without interruption; the deep are short. All interlace with the liga- ments of the articulations, and become in- separably united to them, but there is not, as was formerly imagined, a continuity of fibres from one bone to the other by means of the ligaments; on the contrary, the direction of the fibres in these two organs seldom co- incides. The external surface of the periosteum is in contact with a great variety of parts: muscles, synovial burss, mucous membranes, vessels and nerves, rest on it immediately, or are separated from it by cellular tissue, and thus permitted to move freely on it. The other surface is connected to the bone by vessels, and by numerous prolongations which pass into the osseous substance and are lost there. This connexion is weak in early life, and espe- cially in the centre of the long bones ; but in the more advanced periods the deeper sub- stance of this membrane becomes identified with that of the osseous tissue ; thus its union is rendered more intimate, its thickness di- minished and its density increased. The union is so close in old age and even in middle life, that the inner fibres of the periosteum are sup- posed to be the seat of calcareous deposition, and to be converted into bone. The vascularity of the periosteum may be easily shown by injection, especially in the young. Its vessels freely anastomo'e with those of the surrounding soft parts, and there is no point of the external osseous surface 2 F