BLADDER, NORMAL ANATOMY. 378 more does its form resemble that of inferior auiraals, and it is an organ very fully developed in the young of all animals who possess it. This organ, in the adult male, when empty or contracted, is a flattened triangle, the transverse and vertical axes being considerably greater than the antero-posterior one; in this con- dition the bladder is buried deep in the pelvis, behind and partly below the symphysis pubis; the base of the triangle is in front of but not very closely applied to the rectum, unless tlie cavity of the latter be fully distended. When the bladder is expanded in the adult male to that moderate degree vvhicb in perfect health usually exciies a slight feeling or desire to void the urine, and when the quantity accumulated may amount to half a pint or upwards, its figure is then somewhat oval, its vertical ax.s being considerably greater than either the transverse or the antero-posterior, the two latter being then nearly equal. The larger end of this ovoid sac rests inl'eriorly and posteriorly on the rectum, and is of an irregular form ; the smaller end, which is more regularly sphe- roidal, is directed upwards towards the abdo- men, and somewhat forwards, and occasionally also a little towards the left side. When the bladder is over-distended from any cause, it becomes considerably increased in every dia- meter ; it first expands in its lower and middle portions, until the pelvic parietes resist; It then enlarges superiorly to an indefinite degree, and at the same time the whole organ rotates a little forwards by its superior, and a little backwards by its inferior fundus. Its figure in this over-distended condition is not merely enlarged, but it also presents a totally different, or rather a reversed shape : the larger extremity of the oval is now superior, occu- pying the hypogastric region, which it ren- ders prominent and tense in a degree propor- tioned to its distension. These observations as to the form of the bladder will not apply in every instance, as occasionally this viscus pre- sents irregularities both in size and shape, as well as in the density and delicacy of its tunics. The bladder in the female child does not differ from that of the male of the same age, but in the adult of each sex it presents peculiarities. Li the contracted state it is nearly similar in each, only somewhat flatter in the female. When distended, in the latter it presents a more triangular form, the sides somewhat rounded, than it does in the male, where the ovoid form prevails; in the female its lower fundus admits of greater lateral extension in conformity with the shape of the pelvis, and its transverse axis is longer in proportion than in the male; hence it assumes the triangular more than the oval figure. This character is more remarkable in the female who has borne children than in the virgin; in the former the bladder, when dis- tended, appears to exhibit the effects of the pressure of the uterus posteriorly, and of the pubes anteriorly, being flattened in each of these aspects : in some instances it resembles a small barrel placed tranversely. In the foetus and infant of a year old the bladder in figure more resembles tliat of a qua- druped ; when distended, it is pyriform, like a bottle or a flask reversed, the larger end, or the superior fundus being in the abdomen, and the smaller extremity tapering into the urethra. This is the only portion in the pelvis; at this age its vertical axis greatly exceeds its other diameters, and even when empty the greater portion of it is in the abdomen. As the child increases in years and size, its pelvis expands, the bladder gradually descends into this region, and in the same proportion its lower fundus enlarges, so that at about six or seven years of age it presents a more oval form, both extremi- ties being nearly equal, and very little of it rising above die pubis, unless when distended. From this period it continues to acquire gra- dually the adult figure; that is, its inferior fundus and body enlarge, while the superior re- mains stationary ; hence it becomes shorter in its proportions, and broader below, so as to assume the triangular shape when empty, and the ovoid when distended. About two months before birth the bladder is very much elongated, its upper extremity being somewhat pointed, and ap- proaching the umbilicus in the direction of the urachus. When distended, it presents some- what the appearance of a cylinder contracted at each extremity. Soon after birth the upper fundus becomes rounder, and then it acquires the pyriform figure, which in the course of a few years undergoes the gradual alterations that have been already noticed. The capacity of the bladder in the adult cannot be accurately ascertained, as it varies from a number of circumstances, such as age and sex, health and disease: thus irritation general or local, ischuria renalis, cholera, &c., will cause it to contract, while retention of urine, paralysis, fever, &c., will allow it to enlarge. Custom or habit will also aflect it, likewise the position of the body, pregnancy, the nature or peculiar quality of diet, the tem- perament of the individual, the tempera'ure of the atmosphere, the state of society, &c. In the same individual it will at one time contract so as to retain only a few drops, and at another it will dilate so as to contain one, two, and even three pints. Generally it is more capa- cious in women, particularly in those who have borne children, than in men. In children the bladder, although very dis- tensible under certain circumstances, is usually less capacious in proportion than in the adult or old, probably because it is more muscular and irritable ; and hence, too, the more fre- quent desire to contract and empty its contents. When the bladder is moderately distended, anatomists and pathologists have been in the custom of dividing it into four regions for the purpose of moie accurate description ; viz., the superior part or the upper fundus, the middle part or body, the inferior part or the lower fundus, and die cervix or neck. This arrange- ment is not very correct, for it can only apply to this organ when distended; the term su- perior fundus also is obviously objectionable, and was probably derived from examining this viscus in other animals, or in the human foetus where the lower fundus does not exist; neiflier