34 ABSORPTION. removal of a part by pressure. If a muscle, or even a solid bone be exposed to constant pres- sure, by which its nutritive arteries are ob- structed, it will be gradually dimmished in bulk, and at length completely abstracted. And this is frequently effected by the action of a body much softer dian the substance which is removed, as, for instance, we observe a bone to be absorbed by the pulsation of a blood- vessel, or the growth of a fleshy tumour.* But although we may venture to affirm that tliis moulding of the body, or rather of its in- dividual parts, is effected by the lymphatics, either alone or in conjunction with the veins, there is considerable difficulty in forming a distinct conception of the mode in which they operate. The operation cannot, strictly speak- ing, be mechanical, nor have we any evidence of the existence of a chemical solvent, by which the parts may be reduced to a liquid state, so as to fit them for entering into the mouths of the vessels. We may conceive of the source of supply being cut off by pressure or in other ways, but still we are at a loss to account for the mode in which the solids are either dissolved or broken down, so as to adapt them to the process of absorption. There is, however, one principal or general fact in the animal economy, which will probably some- what assist us in our inquiry, viz. that it appears to be essential to the well-being, or even to the existence of the corporeal frame, that all the materials of which it is composed should un- dergo a constant change. It appears that these materials, after a certain length of time, expe- rience some alteration in their nature, by which they are rendered unfit for the further perform- ance of their functions as constituents of tlie living body. They are therefore removed and are replaced by fresh matter, this interchange being brought about in the gradual manner which was described above. Wow this process implies a constant decomposition of the parts of the body, and as this decomposition is effected particle by particle, it may not be un- reasonable to conjecture, that each particle, ■when it ceases to form an integral part of an organ, is left in a state proper for being taken up by the absorbents. But independent of any hypothetical views of this description, we may assume it as a probable conclusion, that the configuration and moulding of the body is the specific and appropriate office of the lymphatics, while its nutrition is effected more immediately by the lacteals. With respect to the lymphatic glands we have seen above that their structure is involved in considerable obscurity, and we may remark, that their use is at least equally obscure. Among other opinions that have been entertained on * For the absorption of tlie solids, see Monro on the Brain, c. 5; also Bhimenbach, §. 436; and Bell's .4nat. vol. iv. p. 311,2. liibes, who is a zealous defender of the doctrine of venous absorp- tion, remarks that the absorption of the bones must be effected by the veins, because they are not fur- nished with lyraphatics; Mem. Soc. d'Emnlation, t. viii. p. 621. the subject, some physiologists have supposed that the glands are proper secreting organs, which are destined for the purpose of preparing a peculiar substance that is mixed with the chyle and the lymph, or that they merely serve the mechanical purpose of mixing together more completely the constituents of the fluid that is contained in the vessels, and thus produce some change in its nature or consistence.* There do not appear to be any arguments, either anatomical or physiological, by which this point can be decided ; but we may remark, that while the number and mode of distribution of these glands in the mammalia would seem to point them out as performing some important office in the animal economy, their rarity in birds and fishes proves that they are not essen- tial to the existence of most of the functions of animal life, nor have we any mode of explaining the cause why they should be more necessary to the mammalia than to the other classes, which in many of their functions so nearly re- semble them. It only remains for us to offer a few remarks on the connexion between the function of ab- sorption, and the other vital actions of the system, especially with the two leading princi- ples of contractility and sensibility. We have already had occasion to remark on the con- nexion of absorption with muscular contracti- lity, and although it may be difficult, or even impossible, to demonstrate the muscular fibres, or to exhibit any apparatus of this description, by which the action of the vessels can be ac- counted for, still we have strong reason for supposing that the absorbents possess this power, and that it is the main cause by which their contents are propelled. With respect to the relation which subsists between the nervous and the absorbent systems, we are induced to suppose, both from anato- mical and from physiological considerations, that it is merely of an indirect nature. From the researches of the anatomists, we learn that there are few nerves sent to the absorbent vessels or glands, and that even these seem rather to pass by them, in order to be transmitted to some other org-ans, than to be ultimately des- tined for the use of the absorbent system. The action of the mouths of the lacteals, or the power by which they are enabled to take up the substances that are afterwards transmitted along them, is involved in much obscurity, as is likewise the case with the power which these vessels seem to possess of changing the nature of their contents. Both of these have been re- ferred to the nervous influence, but this has been done in that loose and general way, which " On this subject we may refer to Haller, El. Phys. ii. 3. 25; Blumenbach, Inst. Phys. §. 425, 442; Richerand, Elem. p. 153; Mascagni, ps. i. sect. 5. p. 33 ; Magendie, Elem. t. ii. p. 166, 201 ; Chaussier et Adelon, ubi supra, p. 278. Ruliier, art. " Inhalation," in Diet. Sc. Med. ; Meckel, Manuel, sect. 6. ch. i. ; .Adelon, art. " Lymphatique (Physiologie)," Diet, de Med. t. xiii, also art. " Chyliferes," ibid. t. v. p. 239; Desgenettes, Journ. Med. t. xc. p. 322, et seq.