304 AVES. together witli a tough ligamentous substance, which seems to be the continuation of the scle- rotic between the edges that overlap each other. The cornea possesses the same structure as in mammalia, but differs with respect to form. When the posterior part of the eye is com- pressed by the muscles, the humours are urged forwards and distend the cornea; which, at that time, becomes much more prominent in most birds than it is ever observed in mammalia; and under such circumstances, the eye is in a state for perceiving near objects. When the muscles are quite relaxed, the contents of the eye-ball retire to the posterior part, and the cornea becomes flat or even depressed : this is the condition in which we always find the eye of a dead bird, but we can have no opportunity of perceiving it during life. It is only prac- tised for the purpose of rendering objects visi- ble that are placed at an extreme distance. From the well-known effects of form upon re- fracting media, it must be presumed, that the cornea possesses very little, if any, convexity, when a bird which is soaring in the higher re- gions of the air, and invisible to us, discerns its prey upon the earth, and descends with uner- ring flight to the spot, as is customary with many of the rapacious tribe. The degree of convexity of the cornea is also changed in birds by the action of muscular fibres especially appropriated to its motions. These were discovered by Crampton ; are dis- posed around the circumference of the cornea, and are attached to its internal layer; they draw back the cornea, in a manner analogous to the action of the muscles of the diaphragm upon its tendinous centre. The choroid coat re- Fis. 138. sembles in its structure that of mammalia; it g^^^T^^V—" is copiously covered ^*f^f7~Y\\^_^ with a black pigment, ^ ^"^-^.w^^af^ similar to that in the 1 human eye. Opposite J fiiff ■ r—^ the bony circle the j/^ -. choroid separates into S'^Xs) two layers; the exter- nal layer is the thin- nest, and adheres at first firmly to the sclerotica, after which it is produced freely inwards to form, or be continuous with, the iris. ThejVts (c, fig. 138) is delicate in its texture, which under the lens appears composed of a fine net-work of interlacing fibres,but it is remarkable for the activity and extent of its movements, which seem in many birds to be voluntary. The contraction and dilatation of the pupil, inde- pendent of any change in the quantity of light to which the eye is exposed, is most conspicu- ous and remarkable in the Parrot tribe, but we have observed it also in the Cassowary and some other birds. The colour of the iris is subject to many varieties, which frequently display great bril- liancy, and afford zoologists distinguishing spe- cific characters of birds ; although these cannot always be implicitly relied upon. The breadth of the iris varies in different species, but is greatest in Birds which take their food in the gloom of evening, as the Owls and Night-jar, in order that the pupil may be proportionally enlarged to admit as much light as possible to the retina. Carus observes that in the eye of the Owl is exhibited with peculiar distinctness the remarkable dis- tribution of the ciliary nerves and vessels, which, running in the form of single trunks between the choroid and sclerotica, terminate anteriorly in several ring-shaped plexuses for the supply of the iris and of the muscular circle of the cornea. The pupil is usually round : in the Goose and Dove it is elongated transversely, and in the Owls is vertically oval. The inner layer of the choroid is thicker than the external, and is disposed in numerous thickly set plicae radiating towards the anterior part of the chrystalline lens, where they termi- nate in slightly projecting ciliary processes, (d, ^g. 138,) the extremities of which adhere firmly to the capsule of the chrystalline. These processes are the most numerous, close set, and delicate m the Owl; they are proportionally larger and looser in the Ostrich. The chief peculiarity in the eye of the Bird is the marsupiiim or pecten, (f,Jig. 138,) which is a plicated vascular membrane analogous in structure to the choroid, and equally blackened by the pigmentum; situated in the vitreous humour anterior to the retina, and extending from the point where the optic nerve penetrates the eye to a greater or less distance forwards, being in many birds attached to the posterior part of the capsule of the chrystalline. As its posterior point of attachment is not to the choroid but to the termination of the optic nerve, this requires to be first described. When the optic nerve arrives at the sclerotic, it tapers into a long conical extremity, which glides into a sheath of a corresponding figure, excavated in the substance of that membrane, and directed downwards and obliquely forwards. The central or inner layer of this sheath is split longitudinally, and the substance of the nerves passes through this fissure. A similar but longer fissure exists in the corresponding part of the choroid : so that the extremity of the optic nerve presents in the interior of the eye, instead of a round disc, as in mammalia, a white narrow streak, from the extremities and sides of which the retina is continued. Branches of the ophthalmic artery, which are quite dis- tinct from the vessels of the choroid, and ana- logous to the arteriu centralis retina, enter the eye between the laminaa of the retina, along the whole extent of the oblique slit above men- tioned, and immediately enter or compose the folds of the marsupial membrane, upon which they form most delicate and beautiful arbore- scent ramifications. The marsupium is lodged like a wedge in the substance of the vitreous humour, in a vertical plane, directed obliquely forwards. In those species in which the marsupium is widest, the angle next the cornea reaches the inferior edge of the capsule of the chrystalline; but where it is narrow, the whole anterior surface is in contact with the same point. This con- tact is so close in some birds, as the Vulture,