294 AVES. scapula, and is inserted along tlie middle of the outer side of the humerus; it brings the wing upward and backward. Birds have the Pectoralis muscle divided, as in many of the mammalia, into three portions, which are so distinct as to be regarded as sepa- rate muscles ; they all arise from the enormous sternum, and act upon the proximal extremity of the humerus. The Jirst or great Pectoral muscle (25) is ex- traordinarily developed, and is in general the largest muscle of the body. In birds of flight it often equals in weight all the other muscles of the body put together. It arises from the anterior part of the outer surface of the clavicle or furculum, from the keel of the sternum and from the posterior and external part of the lower surface of that bone ; it is inserted by an extended fleshy margin into the inner side of the anterior crest of the humerus. It forcibly depresses the humerus, and consequently forms the principal instrument in flight. This muscle is very longand widein the Nata- tores generally, but in many of these birds, as the Penguin, its origin is limited to the external margin of the subjacent pectoral muscle, which is here remarkably developed. The great pec- toral is very long, but not very thick in the Rasores. In the Herons it is shorter, but much stronger and thicker. Its size is most remarkable in the Humming-birds, Swallows, and diurnal Birds of Prey, where it is attached to almost the whole outer surface of the sternum and its crest, and has an extended insertion into the humerus. In the Ostrich its origin is limited to the an- terior and external eighth part of the sternum, and it is inserted by a feeble tendon into the commencement of the crest of the humerus, to which it gives a strong rotatory motion for- wards. The second Pectoral muscle is situated be- neath the preceding; it has the form of an elongated triangle : it arises from the base of the crest of the sternum and from the mesial part of the inferior surface of that bone ; it in- creases in size as it ascends, then again be- comes suddenly contracted, passes upwards and backwards round the coracoideam, between that bone and the clavicle, then turns down- wards and outwards, and is inserted, fleshy, above and in front of the great pectoral, into the upper extremity of the humeral crest. The interspace between the clavicle, cora- coid, and scapula, through which its tendon passes, serves as a pulley, by means of which the direction of the force of the carneous fibres is changed, and although these fibres ascend from below towards their insertion, yet they forcibly raise the humerus, and thus a levator of the wing is placed without inconvenience on the lower part of the trunk, and the centre of gravity proportionally depressed. In the Penguins, Guillemots, and Gulls, this muscle is almost the largest of the three, occupying the whole length of the sternum. It is remarkable for the length and strength of its tendon, which is inserted so as to draw forwards the humerus with great force. It is proportionally the smallest in t'le liaptores; and is very small and slender in the Struthious birds. We have already alluded to the use which the Penguin makes of its diminutive anterior extremities as water-wings, or fins; to raise these after making the down-stroke obvi- ously requires a greater eff'ort in water than a bird of flight makes in raising its wings in air; hence the necessity for a stronger development of the second pectoral muscle in this and other Diving Birds, in all of which the wings are the chief organs of locomotion, in that action, and consequently require as powerful a deve- lopment of the pectoral muscles as the gene- rality of Ends of Flight. The third Pectoral muscle, which is in ge- neral the smallest of the three, arises from the anterior part of the inferior surface of the ster- num, and also by a more extended origin, from the posterior moiety of the inferior surface of the coracoid; it is directed forwards, and is inserted by a short and strong tendon into the internal tuberosity of the humerus, wliich it depresses. It is proportionally large in the Penguins and Gulls, but attains its greatest development in the Gallinaceous order. Above the preceding muscle there is another longer and more slender one, analogous to the Cornfo-6;-af/»'«/i'.5, which arises from the middle of the posterior surface of the coracoid; its direction upwards is less vertical than that of the third pectoral, along the outer side of which it is attached to the anterior tuberosity of the humerus. This muscle is wanting in the Struthionida, is of small size in the Heron and Goose, is much more developed in the Raplorcs and many Natatores, espe- cially the Penguins, and attains its greatest relative size in the Rasores, where it arises from almost the whole of the coracoideum. Birds in general possess two flexors and one extensor (27) of the fore-arm, analogous to those which are found in the mammalia. They have also the muscles corresponding to the pronators and supinators of this higher class, but their action is limited in the feathered tribes to in- flexion and extension of the fore-arm, and to adduction and abduction of the hand. A remarkable muscle, partly analogous in its origin to the clavicular portion of the deltoid, but differently inserted, is called by Carus Extensor plica alaris (30, ah) and forms one of the most powerful flexors of the cubit. It is divided into two portions, of which the anterior and shorter arises from the internal tuberosity of the humerus ; the posterior and longer from the clavicular ex- tremity of the coracoid Tjone. In the Ostric/i and Rhea, however, both portions arise from the coracoid. The posterior muscle (b) sends down a long and thin tendon which runs pa- rallel with the humerus, and is inserted, gene- rally by a bifurcate extremity, into both the radius and ulna. The anterior muscle (a) terminates in a small tendon, which runs