743 CRANIUM. rence would be to strengthen tlie part in wliich (fiom the situation of the organ) these vibra- tions might, in general, be expected to concur; and this is the contrivance adopted in the cra- nium, for in the centre of its base there is a qua- drilateral portion (the body of the sphenoid bone) of characteristic massiveness and strength. It does not liowever augment uniformly in its substance from above downwards. The matter is accumulated in dense lines or ribs, wliich pass to a common centre, and constitute thereby a peculiar skeleton or frame-work of surpassing strength, which admits of the intro- duction of a lighter and more fragile structure in the intervening spaces, and resists the shocks that arrive through the spine, from behind or from above. This frame-work is situated almost entirely in the base; the only part which is in the calvarium being a longitudinal curved line, formed by the ethmoidal process of the sphe- noid bone, the crista galli of the ethmoid, the spine of the frontal, the thickened commutual margins of the parietals, and the superior limb of the internal occipital spine. Independently of this curved rib, the calvarium consists of four ovoidal domes, two on each side; formed, the anterior by the corresponding half of the frontal bone, and the posterior by the parietal. The summits of these domes are their centres of ossification, and their bases abut, partly on the longitudinal rib, and partly on the frame- work in the base. The part to which all the forces tend is the body of the sphenoid bone. From its posterior comers there pass backwards two ribs, (the petrous processes of the temporal bones,) which terminate on tlie extremities of an arch, (the lateral limbs of the internal crucial spine of the occiput,) which is placed horizontally, and the convexity of which is turned back- wards. This arch and the two ribs which connect it to the centre are in the line in which the oc- ciput would strike the ground in falling back- wards; and they further form the brim of the pit which contains the cerebellum, so that tlie vibrations of force pass in the interstice between that organ and the cerebrum. From each side of the body of the sphenoid bone there stretches forwards, outwards, and upwards towards the temples, a curved rib, (the anterior part of the great wing,) and, from the anterior part of the body, a transverse rib which overlays the former. These and the posterior lateral ribs, all of which depart from a common centre, constitute the frame-work of the base which sustains the ovoidal domes of the calvaria. Tlie frontal dome is placed with its summit (the frontal depression) looking backwards, downwards, and inwards; its mar- gin is received, inferiorly on the whole length of the anterior transverse, and on the extremity of the anterior lateral curved rib; towards the middle line, on so much of the longitudinal rib as extends to the parietal bones ; and supe- riorly, it is applied against a portion of the base of the parietal dome. It is against these parts that it thrusts, whenever it receives a shock on its summit. The parietal dome is placed with its summit (die parietal depression) looking downwards and inwards. Below, it is received on the extremities of the lateral ribs; above, it thrusts against the remainder of the longitudinal rib; behind, it falls on the corresponding portion of the horizontal arch ; and, in front, it antagonizes the frontal. It is by the bases of these domes thus thrusting against a solid frame-work, that the cranium is endowed widi the power of re- sisting lateral shocks whether they approach from before or behind ; and it is not, as some allege, simply by the mobility of the head, that it witiistands blows, which, if it were fixed, would fracture it. There yet remains to be noticed an impor- tant part of this skeleton or frame-work; that which bears upon the spine, and resists the force transmitted through it. At the bottom of the pit containing the cerebellum, there is an elliptical opening (the foramen magnum), the margin of which is very dense; this opening is provided underneath with two tubercles (the articulating processes), by which it rests on the vertebral column; from these tubercles a curved rib on each side (the lateral process of the oc- cipital bone and the mastoid of the temporal) extends upwards and outwards to the extremity of the posterior lateral nb; the segment of the margin of the opening which is anterior to the tubercles, is prolonged upwards and forwards, in the form of a broad pillar (the basilar pro- cess), to tlie back part of the common centre; the segment which is behind the tubercles sends off, at its back part, a spine (the inferior limb of the internal crucial spine), which ends at the centre of the horizontal arch, at the point where die superior longitudinal rib terminates ; and diis point of confluence of the forces from below, from above, and from behind, is strength- ened by a nodule (the internal occipital protu- berance). Tlie frame-work of the cerebellar cavity is thus connected with that of the general cavity; anteriorly, to the body of the sphenoid bone; posteriorly, to the tubercle of the occi- pital ; and, laterally, to the extremities of the petrous processes of the temporal bones. In both of them it will be seen that they occupy spaces between the giand divisions of the ner- vous matter, which latter is, therefore, removed from the chance of sustahiing injury by shocks, much more completely than it could have been had the parietes been submitted to a progres- sive augmentation of substance from above downwards. As it is, the spaces in which the nervous matter reposes are thin and frequently diaphanous; and, were they situated in un- protected parts, would be perforated by the slightest force. During a considerable period of life the sub- ject enjoys additional protection from die slight yielding of the bones, and from the cartilage which intervenes especially at the base. Pres- sure applied on the vertex would tend to disjoin the parietal bones from each other, and from the frontal and occipital bones. This the pe- culiar nature of the articulations forbids, and the longitudinal rib chiefly, and the expanded