241 ARTERY, PATHOLOGICAL CONDITIONS OF. advanced. Hence it is, tliat the bleeding occurs some two or three days earlier tlian the period at wliich the ligature naturally separates and comes from the wound. When the bleeding has commenced, it is a case of haemorrhage from an open wound, and must be managed on similar principles, that is, pressure to a sufficient extent must be applied directly on the orifice of the vessel. I have never seen a second ligature applied on the mouth of the vessel, either in consequence of the difficulty of finding the artery in a wound swollen and matted up with lymph and gra- nulations, or from an apprehension of the ex- istence of such a diseased condition of its coats as would cause it again to break down under the cord. But I have frequently witnessed the effective operation of direct pressure, par- ticularly in three cases, which occurred within the last few months, two of which were patients in the Mealh Hospital, and all of whom recovered. In the application of this pressure, however, much caution is required. It should not he greater than is absolutely necessary to command the haemorrhage; it ought to be maintained by means of some me- chanical contrivance, and be independent of all bandages which are liable to stretch, to loosen, or to slip, and it should be removed the very moment this can be done with safety. If the bleeding has been perfectly restrained during three or four days, it is probable it never will return. The sequelae of secondary haemor- rhage ought always to have been regarded as more important and more perilous than the bleeding itself. I have invariably found the wound to become the seat of unhealthy sup- puration : very frequently abscesses form in different parts of the limb, and occasionally gangrene supervenes. It is sometimes diffi- cult to connect any of these occurrences with a lesion of any structure witiim the limb ; but too frequently the mischief can be evidently traced to the pressure being directed on the vein, and being either too forcible or too long continued. Having thus, however imperfectly, sketched the pathology of the arterial system in con- nexion with the use of the ligature, it will be necessary to revert to other forms of disease, which have hitherto been postponed, in order to permit the introduction of the subject of secondary haemorrhage, and that the practical arrangement of aneurism and its consequences, both fortunate and otherwise, might be as un- interrupted as possible. Aneurisinal varlv.—In the year 1761, Dr. William Hunter* directed the attention of the profession to a disease that had not been before observed, one not indeed very formidable in its consequences, but exceedingly curious as to its exciting cause and subsequent progress. When an artery and vein lying in close con- tact are transfixed by a cutting instrument in such a manner that the aperture in one shall exactly correspond with that of the other; and * Medical Observations and Inquiries, vol. i. and ii. VOL. I. when subsequent inflammation has so glued and fastened these apertures together, that, whilst a mutual tiansmission of blood between the vessels is freely permitted, not a drop will be allowed to escape in any other direction, a disease is formed, to which the discoverer gave the name of uneu7'ismal varlv. All and each of these several conditions are absolutely indispensable, and there are so many chances of their not being fulfilled in a case of wounded artery, that the infrequency of the disease may be easily explained. It does, however, occasionally occur, and for obvious reasons will most generally be found in the arm as a consequence of phlebotomy. Soon after the infliction of the injury that has been the cause of the disease, a small tumefaction is observed in the vein; its ap- pearance is irregular and knotted, but it is soft, yielding, and disappears on pressure. On laying the finger on it, a peculiar thrilling sen- sation is perceptible, and on applying the ear, a whizzing noise is heard, very much re- sembling that occasioned by a fly inclosed in a small paper bag. These phenomena dis- appear on either current of blood being in- terrupted by pressure on the artery above or on the vein below: at the same lime that the tumour subsides a little, (though it soon regains its original size) and the peculiar noise is no longer heard. If the disease is allowed to advance uninterruptedly, the calibre of the artery above the point of communication be- comes enlarged, but it is diminished below : the vein also enlarges chiefly in the direction of the current of its blood, rarely in the opposite, and then but very slowly. Another interesting circumstance is, that the peculiar thrill is heard and felt all over the dilated portion of the vein, at a distance from, as well as in the immediate neighbourhood of, the point of communication between the two vessels. It seldom produces any inconvenience that can- not be remedied by the use of a moderately tight bandage, and if duis managed in time never requires a severer treatment. From the circumstance of pressure, either on the artery or vein, diminishing the size of the tumour and removing the tiirilling sen- sation it imparted, it may be fairly inferred that both these phenomena are produced by the meeting of the two currents of blood, and their mutual resistance to the escape of either from its proper vessel. And further, it is ob- vious that if the disease should by any chance prove troublesome or alarming to the patient, its growth might be checked and its progi'ess altogether stopped by permanently obliterating the canal of either the artery above or the vein below : but no operation that a surgeon would be justified in undertaking can remove the tumour, inasmuch as the blood still will con- tinue to flow into and through the enlarged vein. The dangers of secondary haemorrhage after an artery is tied, or of venous inflam- mation if the other vessel is tampered with, ought to inculcate the greatest caution, and it may be easily understood why in such cases Dr. Hunter thought it advisable not to interfere. R