CEPHALOPODA. 560 ment of the embryo has commenced, and are connected together in clusters by long filamen- tary processes. In the figure subjoined, (fig- 240), A repre- sents the ova of the natural size, B a group of o\ a at an early stage of embryonic develop- ment, magnified, C a single ovum, still more highly magnified, showing the embryo a, the rudimental feet h, and what would be regarded as the vitellus c, in the ovum of any of the naked Cephalopods, but which the continuator of Poli states to be tlie germ of the shell. With respect to the Poulp (Octopus) Aristotle states that the animals of this genus copulate in winter and bring forth in spring: tliat the female oviposits in a shell or some secure cavity; that the ova adhere in clusters, like the tendrils of the wild vine or the fruit of the white poplar, to the internal parietes of the cavity; that the young Poulps are hatched on the fifteenth day, and are then seen creeping about in prodigious numbers.* The ova of the Calamary (fig.lAA) are in- closed in cylindrical gelatinous sheaths, mea- suring from three to four inches in length, and about a quarter of an inch in diameter at the thickest part, narrowing to an obtuse point at one end, and attached at the opposite extremity by a filamentary process, varymg from half an inch to an inch in length, to some foreign body, as floating wood, &c.; each sheath or nidamen- tum contains from thirty to forty ova, of a spherical figure, about a line and a half in diameter when newly excluded. As the num- ber of cylinders attached to one body some- times exceed two hundred, the prolific nature of the species may be easily conceived. Fig. 242 shows the first appearance of the head and eyes a, at the stage prior to the development of the arms and funnel ; h is the Fig. 244. Ova of the Cutfle-fish, Si'jila Officimdh * Hisl. Animal, lib. v. rap. 16. elongated body, c the yolk-bag. Fig. 243 is another ovum at a more advanced stage of development: the pigraentum is now deposited both in the rete mucosum and in the eye; the arms are just beginning to shoot from the ante- rior circumference of the head; and the little funnel may be observed rising above the ventral margin of the mantle. The ova of the Sepioteuthis are also spherical and enveloped in cylindrical sheaths, but these are much shorter than in the Loligo, and contain much fewer ova, making an approach in this respect, as in the general organization, to the Sepiae, in which each ovum has its own nida- mentum. The eggs of the Cuttle-fish (fig. 244) are of an oval form, attenuated at the extremities, enveloped in a flexible horny covering, of a blackish colour, which is prolonged into a pe- dicle at one extremity, and twisted round some foreign body. The length of ovum from the pomt of its attachment is generally an inch, and as a number of these ova are always found attached close together, and sometimes to one another, they resemble in this state a bunch of grapes, as the name ' sea-grapes,' com- monly given to them by the fishermen, implies. In the development of the Cephalopod the most interesting circumstance, and one which had not escaped the notice of Aristotle,* is the point of attachment of the yolk-bag (c,fig. 245), which is suspended from the head of the embryo, its pe- dicle being surrounded by the cephalic arms, and passing down anterior to the mouth to communicate with the pharynx. The yolk is a trans- parent gelatinous fluid of a spherical form. In the embryo of the Cuttle-fish all the organs, the exercise of which is essential to its future welfare, are adequately developed before its exclusion. The gills are very distinct, and the respiratory actions are vigorously performed by the alternate dilatation and contraction of the mantle and a corresponding elevation and falling of the funnel {d), by which the little streams are expired. The ink-bag has already provided a store of secretion sufficient to blacken a considerable extent of water, and baffle any enemy which may be ready to remove the little Cephalopod from the world into which it is about to enter. The pigment of the rete mucosum is developed in several large spots, as in the Calamary (fig. 243). Five concentric layers of the dorsal shell at least are deposited; these are, however, horny, white, and transparent, except at the narrow and thick end; and the innermost layers are marked with irregular opake spots. The lateral fins arc broad, and the ventral arms are furnished with a fin-like expansion, so that the young animal is enabled to execute movements either retrograde or progressive; and the eyes are well TTPoirSiov. ' Adhseret ovo Sepia nascens parte siii prioie.' Dc Gcneratione Animaliiim, lib. iii, c. 8. Fatal bepi