CETACEA. Fig. 256. Muscles of the anterior Jin of a Dolphin. a. Rhomboideus. e. Sterno-mastoideus. b. Levator scapulae. /. Costo-humeralis or lalissimus dorsi c. Infra-spinatus. g. Portion of pectoral. d. Humero-mastoideus. h. Splenius. (2) four, the digitus medius (3) five, the annu- laris (4) four, and the digitus parvus (5) three bones; all are terminated by a cartilaginous dilatation : they form collectively a large and short paddle, obliquely rounded. The muscles which characterize the arm of the Mammalia exist generally also in the Dolphin, and doubtless in the other Cetaceans, but with modifications which have not been so satisfactorily described as could be wished. The great pectoral muscle (a part of which is seen atg. Jig. 256) presents the sternal portion, which is called the musculus cumwunis,oT mus- cle common to the two arms. The latis- simus dorsi (f, Jig.256) is represented by a little muscle, the digitations of which are attached to the ribs; the supra^spinatu.t and infra- spinatus are nearly of equal size, but the sub- scapularis is very large. The coraco-hruchialis is very short. The muscles of the other parts of the arm, that is, of the fore-arm and hand, appear in a rudimental state, and seem to exist less on account of the movements of the parts to which they are attached, than to shew the analogy of the anterior members of the Cetaceans with those of other Mammalia. [In our dissections of the common Porpesse we have found the supra-spinalis of small size, corresponding to the size of the supra-spinal fossa. It is covered by the deltoid muscle («). The in/'ra-spinutus (c) is consequently of much larger size, but is a thinner muscle: behind this muscle is seen the teres major (k) and minor (/).] As we have already said, the posterior extie- mities are wanting; all that remains of them are the rudiments of a pelvis. These rudiments are found in the Dugong to be composed of two pairs of bones (j/, Jig. 246) united two and two, and end to end by a cartilage, and Fig. 257. attached by a carti- lage also to one of the vertebra?. In the Dolphins they con- sist of two little, long, thin bones which are lodged in the flesh, one to the right and the other to the left of the anus. In the Whales, at the extremity of each of these bones (a,a, fig 237),which are regarded as ilia, a second (A) is found articulated, smaller, and curved; the con- vexity of which is external, and might represent a pubis, or an ischion; it seems to correspond to the second of these bones in the Dugong. We perceive that the internal construc- tion of the organs of movement in the Ce- taceans does not vary in the different spe- cies except by mo- difications the im- portance of which we are not able to appreciate. The dif- ferences in their exterior structure, moreover, do not ap- pear to exercise any influence over their mode of living; for the chief of these consists in the Manatee having nails to the ends of its pectoral fin, which correspond to the fingers, of which it is in part composed ; and in its tail being oval instead of being extended laterally into two wings. We have in no way considered as forming part of the organs of movement, the protu- berances which are seen upon the back of some species of spouting Cetaceans, some- times in the form of a hump, and sometimes like a fin, more or less elevated. These pro- tuberances, in fact, are notliing more than simple gibbosities, simple prolongations of the skin, filled with dense cellular tissue and fat, and resembling more or less a fin, but devoid of any independent movement, and without any direct connection either with the vertebrse of the back or with the muscular system. Digestive organs. — The alimentary appa- ratus is one of those, which, in many of its parts, presents the most important modifica- tions in the Cetaceous Order. The three genera into which the Herbivorous Cetaceans are divided, are characterized by three systems of dentition fundamcnfcdly dif- ferent. The Manatees have molares witii dou- 2 p 2 Pelvis of the 3Iysticete Whale.