REGION OF THE ANKLE. 150 a deep groove, in which two important tendons are contained, those, namely, of the peroneus longus and brevis. They are lodged in a canal which we have already described as formed by the bone and the external annular ligament, and this canal is lined by a distinct synovial membrane reflected upon it from the tendons. Having passed over the ligaments of the outer ankle, the peronei tendons are next applied upon the surface of the os calcis; and here, though previously in close apposition, and in- deed contained within the same synovial sheath, they become separated by a ridge projecting from the bone. The peroneus longus tendon plays behind it as upon a pulley, and instances have occurred, where, owing to the fracture of this little osseous septum, the peroneus longus has been dislocated forwards upon that of the brevis. It has also happened that both peronei tendons have been dislocated forwards from their groove behind the malleolus, and thrown in front of that eminence. Were such an acci- dent left without surgical interference, it is inte- resting to reflect how completely altered would be the action of these two muscles, if that action were not completely suspended by the inflam- mation and obliteration of the synovial sheath consequent on the accident; instead of extend- ing the foot and pointing the toe, as they do in their natural state, they would become con- verted into flexors and abductors of the foot. At the posterior part of the region, the tendo Achillis forms a remarkable projection. In our account of the fascia, we have described the sheath within which this tendon is contained. We may further observe that this tendon is separated from the joint, and also from the deep vessels and nerves of the leg, by a consi- derable interval, so that it has frequently been cut across without injury to the articulation or wound of any other important part. Its mode of insertion into the os calcis is also worthy attention ; instead of being fixed into the whole posterior surface of that bone, it occupies by its insertion merely the lower half of it; supe- riorly the bone and tendon are not even in con- tact, for here a distinct .synovial bursa is inter- posed between them. The liability of this large bursa to inflammation and eff'usion should be carefully borne in miiid by the surgeon : and he who is aware of its office, placed as a friction roller between the tendon and bone, will duly estimate how much disease of this bursa will impede the motions of progression. Owing to the interposition of the bursa, rupture of the tendo Achillis has occurred even below the upper edge of the os calcis ; and if, having cut across the tendon, we forcibly extend the foot so as to elevate the heel, we shall at once com- prehend how indispensably necessary it is to maintain the extended position in our treatment of this important accident. b. Muscles.—There arebut few muscular fibres met with in the region of the ankle: the flexor digitorum brevis arises upon the instep; and posteriorly we find some of the fibres of the flexor pollicis longus, which are here continued down a considerable way upon the tendon. c. Arteries.—The arteries about the ankle, from their liability to injury and disease, become of great interest. Upon the instep the course and relations of the anterior tibial artery de- mand particular attention; the vessel here does not run exactly in the median line of the foot, but is somewhat nearer to the inner than to the outer malleolus: we may always reach it with perfect certainty, by cutting between the tendon of the extensor digitorum longus, and that of the extensor pollicis ; these overlap it upon either side, and afford considerable protec- tion against wounds or other injuries. Not- withstanding the facility of reaching the vessel in this situation, it is by no means advisable to do so when it is at all possible to avoid it, inas- much as to expose the artery here it is necessary to wound the synovial sheaths, and inflammation and adhesionwould be the probable consequence of such an injury. The branches of the in- ternal malleolar artery are found upon the inner part of the region, running upon and in front of the inner ankle, and anastomosing with others passing forwards from the posterior tibial, thus insuring a sufficient supply of blood to the joint, even when the trunk of the anterior tibial Itself has been tied. But these vessels are of much inferior importance compared with the posterior tibial, whose main trunk lies in the fossa between the heel and the malleolus internus. It is here occasionally the subject of operation, and hence its course and relations should be very carefully noted. We have al- ready enumerated the tendons passing beneath the annular ligament in this situation ; the most anterior is that of the tibialis posticus, imme- diately behind it lies that of the flexor digi- torum, and still more posteriorly, at the interval of about an inch, is found the tendon of the flexor pollicis; in this interval between the two latter tendons runs the posterior tibial artery, not however equidistant from both, but nearer to that of the flexor digitorum; it rests upon the tibia and internal tibio-tarsal ligament, and is covered by the integuments and annular ligament; its venae comites run one upon either side; and the posterior tibial nerve lies close behind it, but as the vessel descends get- ting gradually to its inner side. Notwith- standing the few coverings of the artery in this situation, yet owing to the heel, the ankle, and the tendo Achillis projecting around, and bearing off" as it were those coverings from it, the vessel is here at a considerable depth from the surface; and any one who supposes it can be easily found in the living subject, will form a very erroneous idea of its true position:—hence it i« that all good writers on surgical anatomy recommend us to take up the artery in the lower third of the leg, rather than in the calceo-malleolar groove. Several small vessels ramify about the outer ankle, the external malleolar coming from before meets here with the terminating branches of the peroneal artery from behind, but these small vessels are interesting to the sur- gical pathologist rather than to the regional anatomist or operative surgeon. d. Veins.—Two veins, the " venffi comites," accompany each of the larger arteries: in all operations upon the artery, the close apposition