CRANIUM. 740 Nevertheless, this does not impair our ability to deduce the internal capacity of the cranium from an examination of its exterior; since the diplcie between the two plates, in the spaces intermediate to these ribs, seldom varies more than one or two lines in its thickness. In a skull of ordinary capacity, the length, measuring from the frontal spine to the longi- tudinal sulcus, is five inches and a half; its width, between the bases of the petrous pro- cesses of the temporal bones, four inches and a half; between the parietal fosste, five inches; and between the extremities of the alte mi- noies, three inches and three quarters: its depth, from the foramen magnum, four inches and a half, from the ephippium three inches and a quarter; and, from the front of the olivary process, two inches and three quarters, liut observation proves to us that there is little dependence to be placed on these measure- ments ; scarcely any two skulls agree in their diameters, for where one exceeds in a given direction, it may fall short in some other. To this conclusion we shall be led by the ex- amination of skulls, not only of members of the same community but even of persons con- nected by the closest ties of consanguinity. While, however, there is any doubt about the matter, it is not to mixed communities we should have recourse in our search for facts; but rather to the well-authenticated skulls of such tribes as inhabit parts of the globe re- mote from each other, and whose manners and customs have, to the best of our belief, re- mained stationary from time immemorial; for by this procedure we shall avoid the confusion arising from a mixture of different races of men whose respective dispositions have been modified by intermarriage. The skulls of a North American Indian and a Hindoo will be good examples to shew how the diameters will vary. By making a longi- tudinal section of each, we shall find, by ap- ])lying a line between a spot about five-eighths of an inch above the root of the nose, and another about three-eighths of an inch above the superior angle of the occipital bone, that there is considerably more space above the line in the Hindoo than there is in the American Indian, while the distance to the foramen magnum is much greater in the latter than in the former. Again, if we make the usual ho- rizontal section, it will be manifest that in breadth the Indian will exceed the Hindoo by nearly, and, sometimes, more than an inch, although the latter has the advantage in length. In the Negro, which, in length, is equal to the Hindoo, the space above the line in a vertical section is not absolutely, much less relatively, so great towards the frontal bone as in the shorter skull of the Indian; while towards the posterior part of the parietals it is much greater, and in its breadth it falls but little short of it. These three aboriginal types will suffice to shew the endless varieties which must prevail in mixed communities, and to satisfy us that the forms of skulls are as num£rous as the diversified modiftcartons of character with which the Creator has endowed the human race. Several naturalists have sought to establish an analogy between the cranium and the ver- tebrae, and have imagined that they had dis- covered in the one a type of the other; in other words, that the cranium is neither more nor less than a gigantic vertebra which has been submitted to some necessary modifications. In this sense the ephippium and basilar por- tion of the occipital bone represent the body of a vertebra; the foramen magnum, the ver- tebral foramen; the longitudinal spine of the occipital bone, the spinous process; the ex- panded portion of the bone as far as the mas- toid portion of the temporals, the vertebral plates ; the mastoid processes themselves, the transverse processes; the eminence above the anterior condyloid foramina and the condyles themselves, the superior and inferior oblique processes; and the notch behind the condyles and the jugular notch, the notches which form the conjugal foramina.* Others agai-n regard the cranium as com- posed of several vertebrae more or less com- plete, which are so associated as to meet the exigencies of the highly developed summit of the medulla spinalis. The resemblance, how- ever, of many of the parts to a vertebra is so imperfect as to admit of the greatest license, as respects both the fixing of tlie number and the apportioning of the parts which severally belong to them. The alteration of position, too, to which they are necessarily subject to enable them to accord with the change in direc- tion which the nervous matter sustains, casts much confusion on the subject, and prevents the mind from recognizing, at once, a similarity which would be more apparent if they con- tinued to be superimposed on each other as they are in the spine instead of being arranged at right angles with it.f The occipital bone certainly offers no dif- ficulty to the detection of an analogy between it and a vertebra; and we readily discern in it a body ; a foramen ; two transverse, four arti- cular, and one spinous process; and four notches. These have already been pointed out, and it is sufficient here to observe, that, in this bone apart from the others, the basilar process alone will represent die body, and the lateral processes will be tlie type of the trans- verse processes of the vertebra. By removing the bones of the face and taking the sphenoid in conjunction with the frontal bone, we shall (if we place the body * This was Dumeril's theory.— See Consid. gen. sur I'Analogie entre tous les os et les muscles du tronc des auimaiix. — Magasin Encyclopedique, 1808, t. iii. t The celebrated Goethe was among the first to adopt this idea. He admitted the existence of three vertebrae in the cranium, (Znr Naturwis- senschaft uberhaupt, &c. Stuttg. 1817-24.) The further development of it occupied the attention of O'Ken, Spix, Meckel, Geoffroy St. Hilaire, and Carus.—bee Meckel, Anat. Desc. &c. t. i. p. 631, and Cams, Anat. Comp. par Jourdain, t. iii. Introduction.—Ed.