420 BLOOD, MORBID CONDITIONS OF THE. specific gravities were 1-044, 1'038, 1-052, 1*056; and in one instance in which it was thick, the specific gravity was 1-057. Taking the mean gravity of healthy blood at 1-044, which I believe will be found correct, it would thus appear that the buffy coat is more frequent in blood above than below the mean weight; but it is also clear that it may exist in either state, and the number of experiments is not sufficient to lead to any conclusive result. De Haen, Hewson, and others have met with cavities in the crassamentum of buffed blood containing clear fluid (liquor sanguinis), which, on being evacuated several hours afterwards, separated into fibrine and serum. Tiiis fact is analogous to that of fluid blood having been found by Hewson in the heart of a dog thirteen hours after death, which blood, on being re- moved, coagulated soon after exposure to the air. A similar coagulation will occasionally take place in fluid blood taken from the human heart several hours after the extinction of life. The remote cause on which the occurrence of the buffy coat depends appears to be an increased action in the circulating system, de- pendent on increased nervous energy, and this IS capable of being very speedily excited. Thus it has happened* that blood from the same orifice drawn into four cups has exhibited this appearance in the second or the third cup, and not in the first or last, the difference being plainly owing to a faintness felt at the com- mencement and termination of the venesection. Thus also the blood of healthy horses drawn immediately after a smart gallop while the cir- culation is powerful and rapid, will exhibit a buffy coat, while that previously abstracted will of course shew no such appearance. Scudamore, it is true, arrived at an opposite result in the case of a young man whom he bled, and after causing him to run two miles, bled again. Neither before nor after the race was the blood buffed, but it is obvious that such severe exercise after depletion would exhaust rather than augment the powers of the nervous and circulating systems. Accordingly he found the proportion of fibrine diminished in the blood last drawn, while the specific gravity of the serum was increased from 1-030 to 1-035, thus shewing how large a quantity of moisture must have been carried off by perspiration. The buffy coat, as might be anticipated from its cause, is usually found in connexion with those diseases and even conditions of health in which vascular action is preternaturally increased—in the active stages of peripneu- mony, in pleurisy, in inflammatory fever, scar- latina and the eruptive diseases generally, and very uniformly in acute rheumatism. It is also occasionally but not always met with in the blood of pregnant women, in persons of sanguine temperament and full habit, and those who resort to frequent bloodletting ; in chronic rheumatism, gout, enlargement of the heart, and other affections where no inflammation exists. On the other hand, it may be absent even in the most intense inflammation; for the * See Hewson on the blood, vol. i. p. 82 et seq. circulation may be so overcharged either actually or relatively, or the nervous power so oppressed, that the requisite degree of propul- sive force is not exerted by the heart and arteries, nor the vital energy on which slow coagulation depends imparted to the blood. In such instances the buflTed coat generally appears on a second or third repetition of venesection. Louis found the blood covered by a firm thick buff at each bleeding in nineteen cases of fatal peripneumony out of twenty-four. In two-fifths it was cupped. In fifty-one out of fifty-seven cases of recovery the blood was buffed, and in twenty-three cupped. In nine tenths of rheumatic patients the buff was firm and thick. The form of the receiving vessel, the degree of motion to which it is subjected, and the size of the orifice in the vein, materially in- fluence the phenomenon. M. Belhomme, the experimenter under M. Recamier, has made about one hundred and fifty experiments on blood drawn in health and disease. He has come to the conclusion that a medium orifice one line in the vein, a strong, rapid, and continuous jet in the form of an arch, and a narrow vessel for the reception of the blood, are the external circumstances most favourable for producing the buffy coat.* Fibrine is more abundant in buffed than in healthy blood. Dr. Davy, from his observa- tions, infers that there is no constant relation between the appearance of this covering and the proportion of fibrine in the crassamentum, yet his own tabular report contradicts him. " From all the examinations we have made," says Thackrah, who has made many experiments to determine this point, " I infer without hesita- tion that buffed blood contains a considerably greater proportion of fibrine than healthy blood." This is a fact of much interest and importance, for as very slight aud sudden causes may give rise to the formation of a bufl^d coat, we are thence led to infer that the quantity of insoluble matter which separates from liquor sanguinis by coagulation is variable, and that there is so far reason to believe that fibrine and albumen are principles convertible into each other. In connection with the appearances depen- dent upon the slow coagulation of fibrine, I may here notice the occurrence of what have been termed polypi, or more recently and cor- rectly, false polypi in the heart and larger ves- sels. These are so common, that, as Haller ob- serves, scarcely a body is met with in which they do not exist. They are found in both auricles and both ventricles and in the larger arteries and veins, as well of the trunk as of the extremities. They consist essentially of fibrine, and partake of all the varieties that are obser- vable in the fibrinous coat of buffed blood. Haller affirms, as usual, supporting his opinion by numerous authorities, that these have been known to exist even during life, not only in * See also Med.-Cbir. Trans, vol. xvi. p. 296, note.