AVES. 285 main support to the wing, and the great point of resistance to the humeri during the down- ward stroke of this aerial oar. The superior or humeral end of this bone is commonly bifur- cate ; the outer process is the strongest, and completes the glenoid cavity anteriorly, (I, Jig. 130,) above which it rises, to a greater or less extent, and affords, on its inner side, an arti- cular surface for part of the acromial end of the clavicle : the inner process is short and com- pressed, and is also joined by ligament to the acromial end of the clavicle. Just below the origins of these processes an articular surface extends transversely across the posterior part of the coracoid bone by which it is firmly united by fibro-cartilaginous substance to the scapula. The glenoid cavity resulting from the union of these two bones is not, however, always equal to the reception of the entire head of the hu- merus. In the birds, which Mr. Vigors re- gards as composing the typical orders of the class, viz. the Ruptures and Insessores, (the fives aerea of Nitzsch,) a small but distinct bone extends between the scapula and coracoideum along the superior part of the articular cavity for the humerus, which it thus completes. Nitzsch, the discoverer of this element of the scapular apparatus, denominates it the capsular bone, (Schulterkapselbeine) ; by Meckel it is called the Os humero-scapulare, and is regarded as the analogue of the scapula iiiferior of reptiles. In the Aberrant orders of birds, as the Kasores, Grallatores, and Natator^es, there is, in place of this bone, a strong elastic ligament or fibro- cartilage extended between the scapula and coracoideum, against which that part of the head of the humerus rests, which is not in con- tact with the glenoid cavity. The clavicles (v, fig. 125, h, fig. 130) in birfls, as in the mammalia, are the most variable elements of the scapular apparatus. In the Ground Parrots of Australia (Pezop}iorus,\\- liger) they are rudimentary or wholly deficient ;* they are represented by short processes in the Emeu, Rhea,and Cassowary; they do not come in contact inferiorly in the Ostrich, although they reach the sternum. In the Toucans they are separate, and do not reach the sternum. In the Hornbills and Screech Owl (Strix ulula) they are united at their inferior extremities by carti- lage. In the rest of the class they are anchylosed together inferiorly, and so constitute one bone, the fiirculum, or merrythovght. From the point of union a compressed process extends down- wards in the Diurnal Raptores, the Coniros- tral Insessores, the Rasnres, most of the Gral- latores, and Natatores, in which a ligament extends from its extremity to the ento-sternum. The process itself reaches the sternum, and is an- chylosed therewith in the Pelicans, Cormorants, Grebes, Petrels, and Tropic-bird; also in the Gigantic Crane, and Storks in general. In the Humming-birds, where the sternum is so disproportionately developed, the furculum ter- minates almost opposite the commencement of the keel, but at some distance before it; in * Mr. Vigors has noticed the absence of the os furcatoviuin in Psittacus mitratns, Platycercus eximms, and Psittacnhi Gulgula. those species in which we have examined it, be- longing to the genus Trocliilus, Lacep. it is of equal length with the coracoideum, and not shorter, as Meckel asserts. As the principal use of this elastic bony arch is to oppose the forces which tend to press the humeri inwards towards the mesial plane, during the downward stroke of the wing, and restore them to their former position, the clavicles composing it are stronger, and the angle of their union is more open, as the powers of flight are enjoyed in greater perfection; of this adjustment the Swifts, Goat-suckers, and Diurnal Birds of Prey afford the best examples. Notwithstanding the anterior extremity is limited to one function, and the motions of its parts are confined to simple folding and exten- sion, it contains the same number of joints as the arm of the Monkey, or of Man himself. We shall now successively consider the bones of the Brachimn, Antihrachium, Carpus, Metacarpus, and Digits. The brachium, or humerus (w, fig. 125, m, fig. 130) is principally characterized by the forms of its extremities. The head, or proximal extremity, is transversely oblong to play in the articular cavity formed by the union of the scapula and coracoid bone. It is further enlarged by two lateral crests : of these the superior, or external, which is angular, with the thin margin turned forward, affords an adequate attachment to the great pectoral muscle: the opposite process has its margin rounded and curved backwards, and it is beneath the arch thus formed that the orifices are situated, by which the air penetrates to the cavity of the bone. There is always a deep depression at this part, even in birds which have no air in the humerus, as in the Penguins and Ostrich. The distal end of the humerus is not less cha- racteristic of the bird, and different from that of other vertebrate animals. The articular hinge is divided into two parts, one internal, which is the largest, for the ulna, of an almost spherical form, and one external, for the radius, of an elongated figure, extending for some distance along the anterior surface of the humerus. The radius is thus made to describe in the act of bending a greater portion of a circle than the ulna, and the whole fore-arm moves in a plane which is not perpendicular to the anterior surface of the humerus. The humerus is not always developed in length in proportion to the powers of flight; for although it is shortest in the Struthious Birds and Penguins, it is also very short in the Swifts and Humming-birds. In the latter, how- ever, it is characterized by its thickness and strength, the size of its muscular processes, and the consequent transverse extension of its extremities; while in the Ciirsures it is as attenuated as it is short, and in the Penguins is reduced to a mere lamina of bone resembling the corresponding part in the paddle of the turtle. In the Rusores it rarely equals half the length of the body ; in most other birds it is about two-thirds that length; it attains its greatest length in the Albatross. In this and other sea-birds, as the Gulls, Awks, and Petrels,