222 ARTERY. The parietes of arteries are divisible into three tunics, known by the names of external, mid- dle, and internal. The external tunic, called the cellular coat, (tunica cellulosa propria of Haller,) is of a whitish colour, thin, dense, and firm : it is formed of condensed cellular tissue, containing fibres closely interwoven and crossing each other at obtuse angles to the length of the vessels. Tiie structure of this tunic is loose on its external surface, and connected by deli- cate lammae with the arterial sheath : its internal surface is very closely attached to the external surface of the middle tunic. The middle tunic of the arteries (the tunica tnusculosa of Haller) is dense, firm, of a red- dish yellow colour, and composed of fibres, which, on a superficial view, seem to run transversely : when this tunic is submitted to a closer examination, we find that none of its fibres are sufficiently long to form perfect rings encircling the whole of the circumference of the vessels; they are all short and straight, with a slight degree of obliquity in their direc- tion, and their extremities are lost among the neighbouring fibres. The middle tunic may be divided into several layers by the knife of the anatomist, and these are found to increase in density from the external to the internal surface. There are no longitudinal fibres in this structure. As Haller has remarked, the middle tunic of the arteries is not continuous with the mus- cular substance of the heart. For the descrip- tion of the manner in which the middle tunic of the arteries is connected with the heart, and of the fibrous structure interposed between the muscular texture of that organ and the middle tunic of the arteries, we refer to the article Aorta. The continuity of the middle tunic through all parts of the arterial system is uninterrupted. Although the absolute thick- ness of this tunic is greatest in the aorta and larger trunks, its thickness in proportion to the area of the vessels manifestly increases as these diminish in size; wherever an artery is curved, it is thicker on the convex than on the concave side, and in all the angles formed by the divisions of arteries its thickness is more considerable than in other situations. The colour of the middle tunic is yellower in the larger trunks and more of a reddish tint in the smaller branches. The middle tunic of the arteries has a degree of firmness sufircient to preserve the circular form of the artery even in its empty state, and after the other tunics have been removed. This tunic possesses a slight degree of strength and elasticity in the longitudinal direction; in the circular direc- tion it exhibits both these properties in a more marked degree. The strength and elasticity of this tunic diminish progressively from the larger to the smaller arteries. There is so close a resemblance between the substance of this tunic and the yellow elastic fibrous tissue of the ligamenta subflava connecting the crura of the vertebrae, as well in its yellow colour and the firmness of its fibres, as in its elastic property, that many anatomists regard both these structures as being nearly if not perfectly identical. Mr. Hunter instituted a variety of experiments to prove that this tunic possessed a power of contraction similar to that of mus- cular structure in addition to its elasticity ; but, notwithstanding the results of the re- searches of this great anatomist and physio- logist, by which he showed, in the clearest manner, that the arteries were endowed with a povver of contraction totally distinct from their property of elasticity, he never demon- strated, in a positive and unequivocal manner, the presence of muscular fibres in it, nor has any other anatomist, who, since his time, may have investigated the subject of the structure of this tunic, been more successful in dis- covering in it any decided trace of muscular fibres. Beclard* considers it to be a pecu- liar elastic tissue having an intermediate charac- ter between muscular and ligamentous fibre. From carefully examining this structure, it appears to differ both from the yellow elastic fibrous tissue and from the muscular tissue; possessed of the elasticity of the former, but differing from it in being composed of fibres of a softer consistence and more easily torn; from the latter it tliflTers not only in the colour and consistence of its fibres, but moreover in the slow and gradual mode of its contraction under the influence of mechanical or chemical stimuli; unlike the muscular fibre, it retains its power of resistance as perfectly in the dead as in the living body. Bichatf asserted that there was a total ab- sence of cellular tissue in the structure of the middle tunic of arteries. Meckel, who ranks higher as an authority for matters of fact in anatomy, has admitted this assertion as if it were an established fact: neither of these authors, however, has advanced a single valid argument or brought forward a well-founded proof in support of the correctness of this statement; wherefore we feel the less reluc- tance in registering our dissent from such high authorities on this point, which we found on the consideration of the following circumstances :— I'lrst, there is no analogous instance of an organized structure receiving bloodvessels and nerves into which cellular tissue does not also enter as a component part. Secondly, we have the authority of the accurate and learned Haller, in testimony of the fact of the fibres of the middle tunic of the arteries having cellular tissue interposed between them, being, as he expresses himself, " cellulositate paucissima separatae." Beclard entertains a similar opinion founded on the circumstance that when a portion of an artery is stripped of its external tunic, granulations will shoot up from the exposed surface of the middle tunic. Thirdly, we have frequently observed that, when a portion of an artery stripped of its external tunic, is divided longitudinally and macerated in water for several days, the mid- dle tunic increases in thickness, and its fibres become more distinct and are more easily separated from each other ; by continuing the * Anatomie Generale, p. 325. t Anatomie Generale, torn. iii.