501 CAVITY. Fig. 203. It rarely happens that we meet with an in- stance in which the abdominal viscera have not been more or less disturbed after deatli from their natural relations to one another. During life the contractile walls of the ab- domen, ever active, maintain such a uniform degree of pressure on the contained organs, that displacements or alterations of positions are very rare occurrences excepting through some preternatural opening in the abdominal parietes. It is advisable to study the positions of the contents of the abdomen in a body re- cently dead, and which has not experienced any degree of disturbance. When the anterior wall of the abdomen has been removed or freely laid open by a crucial incision, the contents of the cavity are brought into view in the following order : — In the right hypochondriac region the liver projects to a slight extent below the inferior border of the chest. This, however, is not to be regarded as the position of the liver during life ; the descent of that organ from behind the shelter of the ribs is attributable to its gravita- tion in consequence of the removal of the support which it obtained from the pressure of the anterior abdominal wall. The liver will thus be found to extend more or less into the proper epigastric region, covering and con- cealing tlie lesser curvature of the stomach with the gastro-hejiatic omentum and the ante- rior, or more correctly, the antero-superior surface of the stomach to a variable extent. In this region we likewise see, corresponding pretty nearly to the cartilage of the ninth rib, the fundus of the gall-bladder in some in- stances completely covered by the liver, in others projecting beyond it or only covered by a duplicature of serous membrane which fills up a natural notch in the liver. In the epigas- Flg. 204. trium more or less of the stomach is seen, its greater curvature projecting forwards, having pendent from it the middle portion of the great omentum; and the left hypochondrium often (especially when the stomach is full) seems to be wholly occupied by the splenic extremity of the stomach, immediately below which there is a portion of the transverse colon, just where it is forming an angle with the descending colon. Sometimes the anterior margin of the spleen projects before it, and sometimes a still greater portion of the spleen is visible, if that organ be in a state of turgescence. Along the