BLOOD. 411 1st Anal sis is naysis. ad Anal sis na ysis. 780.145 785.590 Fibrine .... 2.100 3.565 Albumen .... 65.090 69.415 Colouring matter 133.000 119.626 Fatty chrystallizable matter .... •2.430 4.300 Oily matter . 1.310 2.270 Extractive matters soluble in alcohol and in water . . 1.790 1.920 Albumen combined with soda . . 1.265 2.010 Chloruret of po- tassium . . Chloruret of sodium Alkaline sub-carbo- 8.370 7.304 nates .... Alkaline phosphates Alkaline sulphates . Sub - carbonate of lime .... Sub - carbonate of magnesia . . . Phosphate of lime . 2.100 1.414 Phosphate of mag- nesia .... Phosphate of iron . Peroxide of iron . 2.400 2.586 Total . . . 1000.000 1000.000 Since the publication of the preceding ana- lysis, M. Boudet has discovered a new substance in the serum of the blood, which he denomi- nates seroline. This is a white slightly opa- lescent substance, fusible at 36 cent., (about 94° Fahr.), not forming an emulsion with water, soluble in alcohol, not saponifiable, and appearing to contain azote. This chemist has also shown that the oily matter mentioned by M. Lecanu is a mixture of cholesterine and an alkaline soap, similar to that which is met with in the bile; lastly, he has determined the identity of the fatty chrystallizable phosporated matter contained in the blood with that dis- covered by Vauquelin in the brain (cere- hrinc The study of the colouring matter of the blood has engrossed a large share of the atten- tion of chemists ; nevertheless its nature is still very imperfectly known. It is very com- monly designated under the name of hemato- zine or hematine, and can be readily shown to have the greatest analogy to albumen, from * Ann. de Chimic, 2de Serie, t. lii. which it is indeed always separated with great difficulty. This matter is soluble in pure water, insoluble in serum and in water impreg- nated with salt or sugar, coagulable by heat, capable of absorbing oxygen, carbonic acid, and various other gases which modify its colour. According to M. Lecanu the hematine of chemists is a combination of albumen and the pure colouring matter of the blood, which he proposes to designate glohuline.* But his researches into this delicate subject do not seem to us altogether satisfactory, and we have reason to believe that his globulinc is neither more nor less than some of the globules of the blood which have escaped the action of the sub- acetate of lead employed to precipitate the un- combined albumen. However this may be, the colouring matter of the blood after incine- ration leaves a large quantity of ashes, in which a considerable proportion of oxide of iron can be demonstrated, to the presence of which several chemists have ascribed the red colour of the blood ; such an opinion, however, does not seem tenable at the present day. The experiments of Berzelius have shown that the serum of the blood of the ox does not differ essentially from that of the blood of man.f But we are still without comparative analyses of the nutrient fluids of the different classes of animals. This desideratum has been partially supplied in regard to the vertebrata by Messrs. Prevost and Dumas, they having carefully determined the proportions of water, and of albumen contained in the serum, and those of the fibrine, and other solid parts which swim suspended in this fluid. From these expe- riments we learn that the composition of the serum varies in the same animal at different times, and that it differs still more widely in different animals, without its being possible to connect such changes with the physiological state of the individual. The case is otherwise, however, as concerns the globules; in the majority of cases there exists a remarkable relation between the quantity of these cor- puscles and the degree of heat developed by the vital actions. Of this we may be easily convinced by inspecting the following table, in which Messrs. Prevost and Dumas have pre- sented us with the comparative weights of the S(>lid particles (globules and fibrine) contained in 1000 parts of blood, with the habitual temperature of different animals, taken in the rectum, the number of pulsations of the heart per minute, and the number of inspirations made in the same interval of time. * Ann. de Chimie, 2dc Serie, t. xlv. t On animal fluids, in Med. Chiiurg. Trans, vol. iii.