543 CEPHALOPODA. In the Nautilus f/g. 224) there is a larger and smaller branchia on each side; the larger and external branchia (m) presents forty-eight pairs of lamina;; the smaller branchia (h) thirty-six. In the Dibranchiates the gills vary in the relative size and number of laminse in different genera; they are, perhaps, proportionally small- est in the Loligopsis, where, according to Ilathke, the number of branchial lamina; does not exceed twenty-four pairs; and it is inte- resting to observe in this genus that the mus- cular structure of the mantle has a correspond- ingly feeble development. In the Cuttle-fish the branchia; are each composed of thirty-six pairs of triangular laminee: in the Sagittated Calamary of sixty pairs of laminae. As the branchiaj of the Cephalopods are un- provided with vibratile cilia, respiration is effected by the alternate dilatation and contrac- tion of the branchial chamber; in the first ac- tion the sea-water rushes in by the anterior aper- ture of the mantle ; by the second it is expelled through the cavity of the funnel. As in other classes, respiration is performed more quickly in the young than in tiie full-grown animals : Dr. Coldstream witnessed an Eledone, which measured one inch and a half in length, respire eighteen times in a minute; while one of the same species, which measured four inches in length, respired ten times in a minute. The proper direction of the respiratory currents is insured by various mechanical contrivances ; in the Nautilus, the funnel passes through a hole in the substance of the mantle, which fits it so closely, that at the moment when the funnel is distended by tiie expiratory stream, no space is left external to it by which the water can escape ; and the greater the force by which the water is driven into the funnel, the closer is it girt by the mantle. In the Poulp and Eledone, where the funnel is connected to the fore part of the neck, and the mantle passes across its base, two large valvular folds (one of which is shown at v,fg. 216) are extended from its sides; these are concave towards the respiratory sac; they subside during inspiration, and the parietes of the funnel at the same time are collapsed; the latter during expiration are ddated, while the valves are raised and expanded, and thereby prevent the ejected currents from passing out- side the funnel. In the Argonaut, and in all the Decapods, except the Loligopsis and Cranchia, the sides of the funnel are articula- ted to the opposite sides of the mantle by ball- and-socket joints, which produce so close an apposition of the anterior free margin of the mantle with the parts it surrounds, that upon its contraction, no other outlet, save the funnel, is left for the expiratory currents. In the Ar- gonaut the pallial eminence is a round tuber- cle, below which is a small cavity, and these are adapted to a cavity and tubercle of corre- sponding form at the side of the funnel. In Sepia, the articular tubercle is elongated in the direction of the axis of the body, and is of an oval form. In Loligo and Onychoteuthis it is still more elongated and narrow, and the arti- cular depression is conformable : in Loligopsis the corresponding cartilage is no longer sub- servient to an articulation with the funnel, but is represented by a series of wart-like knobs. Tegumentary System.—The skm of the' Cephalopods is thin and lubricous, and can be more easily detached from the subjacent muscles than in the inferior Molluscous classes. In the Poulp, Eledone, Argonaut, Cuttle-fish, ^ and Sepiola, its texture is soft and tender, and the whole mantle is semitransparent in some species, as the Octopus hyalinus; but in the Calamaries and Onychoteuthides it is thicker, harder, and more unyielding; it is interesting to observe that it is in these latter genera that the epidermoid system is most developed, as is exemplified in the horny denticulations and hooks upon the acetabula. In the Cuttle-fish the suckers are provided with simple unarmed horny rings. In the Octopods the epidermis is reflected over the interior of the suckers without being thickened into a horny substance at that part. In the body generally the epidermis is readily de- tached by maceration, and forms a thick, white, elastic, semitransparent, external layer. The colorific stratum of the integument forms, both in its structure and vital phenomena, one of the most curious and interesting parts of the organization of this singular class of animals; and the nature of which, when thoroughly un- derstood, may be expected to elucidate the mysterious operations of light in producing and affecting the colours of animals. This stratum, which is analogous to the rete mucosum, consists of a very lax and fine vascular and nervous cellular tissue, con- taining an immense number of small closed vesicles, which vary in relative sizes in different species of Dibranchiata. These vesicles are of a flattened oval or circular form, and contain a fluid in which is suspended a denser colouring- matter. The colour is not always the same in all the vesicles, but in general corresponds more or less closely with the tint of the secre- tion of the ink-bag. This, for example, is the case in Sepiola, in which all the vesicles con- tain material of the same colour. In Sepia, be- sides the vesicles which coiTespond to the ink in the colour of their contents, there is another series of an ochre colour. In Loligo vulgaris there are three kinds of coloured vesicles, yel- low, rose-red, and brown. In Loligo sagittata there are four kinds, saffron, rose-red, deep blue, and light blue. In Octopus vulgaris there are also four orders of vesicles, viz. saffron, red, blackish, and blueish. The Argoiianta Argo possesses vesicles of all the colours which have been observed in other Cephalopods, and hence the variety and change of colour which the surface of its skin presents when exposed to the light. These vesicles have no visible communica- tion either with the vascular or the nervous systems, or with each other : yet they exhibit, during the life-time of the animal, and long after death, rapid alternating contractions and expansions.* If, when the animal is in a state • Conf. Dr. Coldstream in Eilinb. Journal of Natural and Geographical Science, vol. ii. p. 297,