647 CIRCULATION. Fig. 319, through the branches of the aorta {A) in the various parts of the systemic circulation. Dr. Marshall Hall*and J. Miillerf have observed a dilated conti-actile part of the caudal vein in the tail of the Eel, to vifhich Dr. Hall has applied the name of caudal heart, which may assist in promoting the flow of blood in the caudal branches of the vena cava. The position and anatomical relation of the heart of fishes with the bloodvessels as well as other parts shew that it corresponds to the whole heart of higher animals, and that the arterial vessel which receives the whole of the fish's blood from the ventricle may strictly be considered as the commencement of an aorta entirely destitute of any pul- monary branches. Although there is no dis- tinct right ventricle to propel the blood to a pulmonary organ, and the whole of the blood issuing from the heart is sent directly to the gills, there is not on this account any suf- ficient reason for considering, as some have done, the heart of the fish as corresponding to * Essay on the Circulation of the Blood, p. 170. Lond. 1831. t Handbuch der Physiol, vol. i. the pulmonary or right cavities of the heart in warm-blooded animals, for we have seen that in some of the reptiles when they have gills, the blood is driven into these organs through the aorta or systemic trunk. The branchial arteries in fishes, as in reptiles, are therefore branches of the great aortic trunk, and the returning vessels on the posterior side of the arches, or branchial veins as they are called, are as much of an arterial nature both in their structure and relations as the anterior vessels or branchial arteries are. When these return- ing vessels unite together on the back to form the descending aorta, it is not necessary there- fore to suppose them to undergo a change from the venous to the arterial structure. So far then as general structure and relative position are concerned, the heart of the fish corres- ponds to the whole heart of warm-blooded animals, and not to one or other set of its cavities. Nor does the contemplation of its function or uses in the circulation induce us to modify this view, for it is manifest that the heart of the fish, as it serves to propel the blood through the gills into the vessels of the system, and as the branchial vessels may be considered as belonging to the aortic system, acts at once as a branchial and a systemic heart.* We have abstained from entering at this place into the detail of those remarkable changes formerly alluded to, which the circulatory and respiratory systems and the systemic and branchial or pulmonary circu- lations undergo during the development of the young of animals, although these afford the most direct proofs of the justness of the view now taken. Under the head of Ovum we shall have a more fitting opportunity of ex- plaining these fully. Suffice it for the present to say that the heart of the highest warm- blooded animals passes, during the progress of its development at different periods or stages, through the same general outline of various forms which that organ retains permanently in the adults of fishes or different reptiles; and that the aortic arches and a semblance of a branchial apparatus connected with them is not confined to those animals which necessarily employ gills for a time as respiratory organs, but are to be found also in the foetus of the scaly reptiles, birds, and mammalia in the early stages of their existence. The ductus arteriosus, double in birds and single in mam- malia, is, we may remark, the last of those transitory structures which remains in the foetus. Portal circulation of fishes.—In fishes, as in reptiles, both the liver and kidneys have venous blood distributed to them by the sub- division within these organs of veins (L&Jf) ft-om the abdominal viscera and posterior parts of the body. The vena portae of the liver consists generally of veins from the stomach, intestinal canal, spleen, pancreas, and some- times from the genital organs, swimming blad- * Blainville, Sur la Degradation du Coeur, &c. Bull, de la Soc. Philomathique, 1818-19, p. 148.