ACALEPHvE. 39 by the currents which are generated in the cir- cumambient fluid. The animal has the power of arresting completely the motion of one, two, or more rows of cilia, while the others are moving. When all are set in motion together, the animal moves onwards with the inferior or oral surface (inferior in a state of rest) directed forwards. W hen the motion of some is ar- rested, the whole body acquires a rotatory mo- tion, and advances in a curvilinear path. The animal has also the power of changing the direction of the currents caused by its cilia, so that it can ascend or descend in the water at pleasure. It can also increase and diminish at will the velocity of the motions of the cilia. Those animals which have the largest cilia, (e. g. Medea,) swim with the greatest rapidity. The cilia continue to move for some time after having been separated from the body, in con- nexion with part of their arches. Immediately beneath the arches there are vessels conveying a fluid, which is in motion during the vibrations of the cilia. Whether these vessels are destined only for the conveyance of the circulating fluid to the cilia, (which in all probability act as organs of respiration as well as of locomotion,) or carry a stimulus fitted to excite their vibra- tions, is not yet determined. Eschscholtz com- pares these vessels to those which Tiedemann has described as connected with the feet in the echiiiodermata. And Dr. Grant is of opinion, with MM. Audouin and Milne Edwards, that it is not improbable that the motions of the cilia are somehow dependent on the movements of the fluids contained in the above-mentioned vessels, seeing that in the uctinia the tentacula are projected hy water being forced from below into them. In the other classes of the acalephae also the same kind of structure prevails. Such of the pulmograda as have cilia around their margins have also circular vessels running along their bases; and almost all projectile and exten- sile tentacules and filaments are provided with sacs and canals, containing fluids, at their roots. In addition to their cilia, several of the cilio- grade acalepha; have other organs of locomo- tion in the form of long filamentary arms or ten- tacules, with which they can poise themselves in the water without moving their cilia. In Cij- dippe* these are two in number. They are lodged in two tubes placed alongside of the sto- mach, from which they issue near tlie mouth. They can be extended to four times the length of the animal. They terminate in very fine points, and along their whole course present minute filaments placed at equal distances, which are coiled up spirally, close to the ten- tacules, when these are about to be withdrawn into their sheaths. The tentacules are also coiled up in a spiral form when completely contracted. They are sometimes suddenly sent forth from their tubes to their full length by one impulse, and then their lateral filaments are gradually uncoiled ; a process this of no less interest on account of the gracefulness of the motion than on account of the peculiar mecha- nism which it indicates. * Grant. Trans. Zool. Soc. i. 10. Tlie principal organ of motion in the pulmo- grada is the large campanulate, or musliroom- shaped, disc, of gelatinous consistence, which constitutes the great mass of the animal. In this, for the most part, no muscular fibres can be seen, and yet the animals move about with some quickness. They have the power of con- tracting and dilating their discs at pleasure, in whole or in part. By alternately contracting and dilating their inferior surface, they strike the water in such a manner and with such force as to raise themselves; when they discontinue this motion, they again sink, being of greater specific gravity than the sea-water. They move onwards horizontally, by acting only with one side of the margin of their disc. Lamarck was of opinion that these isochronous move- ments of the disc, by means of which the pul- mograda seem to swim, were fitted merely to facilitate the internal vital processes, and not to move the animals through the water ; and he regarded them as dependent entirely on the influence of imponderable agents existing in the circumambient fluid, and alternately enter- ing into, and flowing from, the general mass of the animal. He compared the motions with those of the fluid in Franklin's thermoscope, when held in the hand.* In the course of the ordinary progression of tlie large Medusa aurita of our seas, the contractions of the disc take place from twelve to fifteen times in a minute. The convex surface of the disc always advances foremost. No fibrous structure has hitherto been dis- covered in the general mass of the disc. In- ternally, it is cellular, uniform, and very soft. The quantity of solid matter in the disc, and, indeed, in the whole body, is very small. Some meduste, which, when recently taken out of the water, weighed fifty ounces, on being dried, left remains weighing scarcely more than five or six grains. " It is therefore evident, that the sea-water, penetrating the organic tex- ture, constitutes the greater part of the volume of these animals."f But in some species there exists a fine muscular membrane, stretched over a certain extent of the lower surface just within its outer margin. Under a lens, this has the appearance of being composed of nu- merous fleshy fibres, forming little bundles, arranged in a radiate manner as regards the axis of the animal, and closely adherent to the gelatinous tissue of the disc. When portions of the disc are cut oflT from living medusce, without any part of this muscular membrane being attached to them, they remain motionless; but when their connexion with the membrane is preserved, even small portions continue their motions of contraction and dilatation for a considerable time. The tentacula of the pulmograda (which are always pendent from the inferior surface) may be regarded as supplementary organs of loco- motion, although they are, in all probability, subservient chiefly to the nutritive function. They are all simple, not branched, generally * Anim. sans Vert. ii. 454. t Spallanzani, Travels in the Two Sicilies, iv ■218.