ARTICULATION. b. St/mirtlirodiul atrtilage.—The cartilages of synarthrodia! articulations arc destined in some degree to act as bonds of union, as well as means of separation and for the prevention of the eff ects of concussion. They are simply cai'tilaginous lainiuffi interposed between the osseous articular surfaces, very adherent to both, and adherent likewise by their margins to the periosteum or ligamentous expansions wliich may pass from one bone to another. We find instances of these cartilages in the sacro-iliac symphysis, or si/nclnmilrusis, as it has been called from the junction of the bones by carti- lages;* also in the sutures, where there are very thin cartilaginous laminae interposed be- tween the osseous margins. These lamina; will be found to be triangular in their section, the thin edge or apex being internal, which, as Meckel observes, may in some degree account for the earlier obliteration of the sutures on the internal than on tiie external surface of the cranium. These cartilages of sutures are not strictly permanent; they disappear with age: and according to Beclard, hold the midway, as to frequency of ossification, between permanent and temporary cartilages.f Tlie cartilages of the ribs perform in some degree the office of articular cartilage ; they are situated between two osseous surfaces; they form bonds of union, and their elasticity is eminently essential to the full performance of the movements of the thorax. In fishes most of tlie moveable articulations are provided with elastic cartilages, which serve the double purpose of forming bonds of union as well as of permitting motion by their elasticity. 3. Fibro-cartilagc.~T!hK remarkable struc- ture, called by the older anatomists ligamentous cartilage or curtilagitiiform ligament, is made much use of in the articulations; and it is well adapted for a means of union, by reason of its great strength, which it owes to its ligamentous part, and of its elasticity, for which it is indebted to its cartilaginous portion. We find fibro- cartilage to be connected with the joints under three forms : a. In the form of laminae, free on both sur- faces to a greater or less extent, and lined to the same extent by the synovial membrane re- flected upon them.J These are the interarti- ' No ono can have failed to notice the peculiar yellow appearance of the cartilage in the sacro- iliac articulation. Does that arise from an admix- ture of the yellow elastic tissue with the pure carti- lage, by which the elasticity of the latter is in- creased ? t It is doubted by some whether these cartilagi- nous laminae can be admitted into the class of arti- cular cartilages; they being regarded as forming a nidus for the extension of the flat cranial bones, and the sutures being supposed to be useful only for this purpose, viz. to admit of the growth of these bones at their margins in a manner analogous to that of long bones at their extremities. See .*oem- nierring de Corp. Hum. Fab. t. i. p. 212, and Gibson on the use of sutures in the skulls of animals, Manchester Memoirs, 2d series, vol. i. X This point, however, is liable to the same objections as that of the continuity of the synovial mcmluane over diarthrodial articular cartilages, which will be considered in a subsequent part of the article. cular cartilages or menisci of authors. They are found in the temporo-maxillary, sterno- clavicular, and tibio-femoral articulations, some- times in the acromio-clavicular, between the bodies of the cervical vertebra; in birds, and in general in those joints where there is constant and extensive motion, and consequently where, the articular surfaces are exposed to consider- able friction. The principal use of these fibro- cartilaginous lamina; must unquestionably be to guard against any bad consequences likely to arise from this continued friction; this is particularly obvious in the sterno-clavicular articulation. To increase the depth of an arti- cular excavation is another object, as appears from the semilunar cartilages of the knee-joint; and moreover, in conjunction with the attain- ment of these two objects, to ensure in all the motions of the joint a perfect adaptation of the articular surfoces to one another, as will appear obvious to any one who carefully considers the construction of the temporo-maxillary or even of the knee-joint. It will be observed, that I do not include in the class of interarticular fibro-cartilages, the lamina which is commonly known by the name of the triangular cartilage of the wrist joint, as is done by all the systematic writers I have looked into ; for, first, it does not appear to me to be fibro-cartilaginous in its structure; it is purely cartilaginous; and, secondly, it is not interar- ticular, in the sense in which we here use that term, viz., as lying between two articular surfaces. This lamina seems to be merely an extension of the cartilaginous incrustation of the inferior ex- tremity of the radius, which completes the ar- ticular surface for the reception of the first row of carpal bones. The scaphoides and lunare are provided for by the radius; but as the ulna could not be brought into the composition of the wrist-joint without interfering with the motions of the inferior radio-ulnar articulation, a structure such as the triangular cartilage, was necessary—one which would present a sufficient opposing surface to the articular portion of the OS cuneiforme, and which would not impede or obstruct the necessary motions of the joint between the radius and ulna. In the cases of the temporo-maxillary and sterno-clavicular articulations, these fibro-carti- lages form, in general, complete septa between two portions of the joint: so that there are then two synovial sacs; but sometimes there is a per- foration in the centre of the fibro-cartilage. b. The second class of articular fibro-carti- lages consists of those which Meckel designates Jibro-cartilages of circumference, or cylindrical fibro-cartilages. They form fibro-cartilaginous brims to certain articular excavations; they are triangular in their section, attached by their basis to the osseous margin of the articular cavity, and free at their apices, lined by synovial membrane on the whole of one side, and a great part of the other. They are to be found only in two joints, namely, on the margin of the acetabulum in the hip-joint, and on the edge of the glenoid cavity in the articulation of the shoulder ; in the former, this fibro-cartilage is much larger and stronger, and is evidently