ARTERY, PATHOLOGICAL CONDITIONS OF. 238 rhages from the external aperture are more frequent. If this case is treated by ligature at a distance from the situation of the aneu- rism, although the patient may appear relieve at the moment, that relief is but delusive. The blood may coagulate, hut being unsupported by any external resistance, it cannot make suf- ficient pressure on the orifice of the bleeding vessel. Fresh blood is carried round by the collateral circulation, and as it constantly oozes from the punctured artery, it disturbs the coagu- lum in the neighbourhood, and bursts out into new and repeated haemorrhages until the sur- geon is obliged to end where he ought to have begun, by cutting down (if he has still the opportunity) directly on the injured part of the vessel, and tying it above and below the aper- ture. The great difference between the trau- matic aneurism and the other forms of the dis- ease is, that in it the haemorrhage is external as well as internal, and that the coagulum within the limb being unsupported may press out- wards through the wound more freely than inwards upon the vessel. The coagulum, therefore, is not available in the cure, and tlie treatment must have reference to the wounded artery alone. If the radial artery was opened and bleeding freely from the ex- ternal orifice, few surgeons would think of taking up the brachial high in the arm, know- ing that the inosculating branches would still supply abundance of blood to the wound, and although the patliology of traumatic aneu- rism is somewhat different, inasmuch as a portion of the blood lost still remains within the limb, yet the principle of treatment is unchanged. It may be objected that in very many in- stances of traumatic aneurism success has at- tended the application of a ligature on a dis- tant part of the artery ; but every one of these cases will require to be accurately examined before the treatment here laid down can be impeached. The definition of traumatic aneu- rism must be borne in mind, and that it im- plies not only the existence of a wound, but of one through which coagulated blood may pro- trude and fluid blood may trickle. The only case in which such practice could succeed is, where, after the ligature had been tied, a suffi- cient degree of pressure ab externa could be maintained to lay the opposite sides of the wounded artery together, and produce sufficient inflammation to procure its complete oblitera- tion,—in short that it shall effect that which the resistance of the skin alid fascia and other superincumbent structures would have accomplished in a limb less injured. Such pressure as this must occasion intolerable suf- fering ; and experience has proved, in nume- rous instances, how little reliance can be placed on it. Secondary h(Zmorrhage.—Hitherto the ap- plication of a ligature has been noticed only as a curative process, its advantages have been discussed, and the manner in which it may be supposed to operate explained; but it has iDeen also stated that "the ligature is in itself not infrequently a cause of great and fearful mis- chief," and as the consideration of the different cases that might require the operation has been just concluded, perhaps this may be a fit op- portunity for examining;- into the nature of these unfavourable cases. Secondary or consecutive haemorrhage occurs, as its name implies, at some period subsequent to the application of the ligature, and the blood flows from the place where the vessel has been tied. In many instances the patient has a kind of presenti- ment of that which is about to happen, and becomes restless, uneasy, and agitated ; in other instances there is not the slightest warn- ing, and the first notification of the mischief is the appearance of the dressings soaked in blood. In general it has been stated that it is on the separation of the ligature that this bleeding takes place, but this is not the fact, for com- monly it happens whilst the cord is fixed and firm, and three or four days before its fall ought to be expected. The longer the ligature remains, provided no nerve or fascia had been included with the vessel, the safer the patient is, and it must be rare to meet with secondary hae- morrhage after the cord has become detached and been quietly withdrawn. It is remarkable that the blood comes from the inferior portion of the artery; it wells up abundantly from the bottom of the wound, and never flows with a gush or per saltum; it is easily restrained by pressure on the bleeding orifice ; and if such pressure is accurately applied, and can be maintained during a very few days, the cure is permanent, and the patient would be safe but for a number of collateral circumstances, which, however important in the management of the case, form, properly speaking, no portion of the pathology of arteries. Various causes have been assigned as pro- ducing secondary haemorrhage, the chief of which is the too extensive detachment of the vessel from its surrounding connexions during the operation, an opinion that I cannot think is borne out by observation. If it is supposed that this dissection of an artery is injurious by depriving it of its vascularity, and diminishing its supply of nutrient blood, the result should be analo- gous if not exactly like that which takes place when the vessel is deprived of its cellular coat from any other cause, that is, a slough should form on it, on the separation of which the haemorrhage should occur violently and with a gush. An illustration of this is familiarly observed in the phagedenic ulceration of buboes in the groin, where the artery for a time appears to resist the destructive process, and lies de- nuded like a white cord at the bottom of the sore ; but one or more black spots form upon it, which are really specks of mortification, on the detachment of which the bleeding commences with awful violence. Perhaps consecutive haemorrhage does occasionally occur from the burrowing of an abscess along the coats of an artery, an example of which is on record in Mott's case of ligature of the innominata, in which the bleeding occurred ten days after its removal, was so violent from the first as to be with much difficulty restrained, and de- stroyed the patient on the day but one after-