350 AVES. feather is a mechanical wonder;" " their dis- position, all inclined backward, the down about the stem, the overlapping of their tips, their different configuration in different parts, not to mention the variety of their colours, constitute a vestment for the body, so beau- tiful, and so appropriate to the life which the animal is to lead, as that, I think, we should have had no conception of any thing equally perfect, if we had never seen it, or can now imagine any thing more so." Notwithstand- ing the varieties Fig. 177.* of size, consis- ^ i . tence,and colour, J'^l 'ii/'.^ all feathers are !{■ I r;,' composed of a A' f f quill or hairel \\ 'ji'j (a, Jig. 177), a shaft (b b), and a vane or beard (c c) ; the vane consists of bai'bs (e e, fg. 178) and burbulesCff. The quill, by which the feather k |\ is attached to the ^iaLv skin, is larger «^ ^ and shorter than a the shaft, is near- ly cyhndrical in ' = form and semi- transparent; it .f- possesses in an eminent degree the opposite qua- lities of strength and lightness. It terminates below in a more or less obtuse extremity, which is pierced by an orifice termed the loiver urribilicus (e,Jig. 177); a second orifice, leading into the interior of the quill, is situated at the opposite end, at the point at which the two lateral series of barbs meet and unite; this is termed the upper umbilicus (f, fig. 177). The cavity of the quill contains a series of conical capsules fitted one upon the other, and united together by a central pedicle. The slia/t is more or less quadrilateral, and gradually diminishes in size from the upper umbilicus to its distal extremity. It is always slightly bent, and the concave side is divided into two surfaces by a middle longitudinal line continued from the upper umbilicus; this is the internal surface (c, Jig. 178). The opposite, or external surface (b. Jig. 178), is smooth, and slightly rounded; both sides are covered with a homy material similar to that * This figure and fig. 179, 180, 181, are copied from the Monograph of F.Cuvier, " Sur le developpe- ment des Plumes," Memoires du Museum, torn. xiii. of which the quill is formed, and they inclose a peculiar white, soft, elastic substance, called the pith (a, Jig. 178). Fig. 178 * Section of the Shaft and Vane magnified. The barbs are attached to the sides of the shaft near the external surface, and consist of laminae, varying as to thickness, breadth, and length. They are arranged with their flat sides towards each other, and their margins in the direction of the external and internal sides of the feather; consequently they present a con- siderable resistance to being bent out of their plane, although readily yielding to any force acting upon them in the line of the stem : e e, Jig. 178, are the bases of the barbs of a feather magnified. Tlie barbules (f J', Jig. 178) are given off from either side of the barbs, and are sometimes similarly barbed themselves, as may be seen in the barbules of the great feathers of the Peacock's tail. Sometimes, as in these feathers and in the plumes of the Ostrich, the barbules are long and loose ; but more commonly they are short and close-set, and by their form and disposition constitute the mechanism by which the barbs are united together. The barbules arising from the upper side of the barb, or that next the extremity of the feather, are curved downwards or towards the internal surface of the shaft; those which arise from the under side of the barb are curved in the contrary direction: so that the two adjoining series of hooked barbules lock into one another in a manner which the Pari- sian dissectors compare to the fastening of a latch of a door into the catch of the door-post. But besides the parts which constitute the perfect feather, there is also an appendage attached to the upper umbilicus of the quill which requires to be noticed. This is termed the accessory plume. It is usually a small downy tuft, but varies both in different species, and even in the feathers of different parts of the body of the same bird. In the quill- feathers of the wings and tail, it usually remains in the rudimentary state of a small tuft of down; but in the body-feathers of Hawks, Grouse, Ducks, Gulls, &c. it is to be found of all sizes, acquiring in some species a size equal to that of the feather from which it is produced. * Perrault, Hist. Nat. des Animaux, p. 336.