CONTRACTILITY. 719 lUKscles provided with sensitive nerves, by which the mind is informed of the contractions, and so enabled to regulate or guide them. The Sensations act chietly on tliis description of muscles likewise, but partly also on muscles the nerves of which give no such distinct inti- mation of tlieir contractions, and which are uniformly and strictly involuntary; and the chief excitants of this last class of muscles in the Animal Economy are physical stimuli, ap- plied to themselves and to their lining mem- branes. II. In regard to the vital power or property of Irritability, as exhibited in any of these ways, the following facts demand particular notice. 1. The minutest fibres, of which the mus- cles, exhibiting this property, consist, or what have been called by some authors the primary filaments of muscular fibres, appear under the microscope to consist of rows of globules, or at least to be marked by transverse striae, at equal distances. 2. When contraction takes place, these fila- ments, or rows of globules, are thrown into a zigzag form ; the angles being always at the same points on each contraction, and being generally obtuse, rarely and only on occasion of very forcible contraction, acute.* At the points where these angles are formed, the fila- ments are crossed, according to the observa- tion of Prevost and Dumas, by nervous fibrils; but it is im])ortant to rememl er, that this last observation has been made only on muscles of voluntary motion, and on them only in cold-blooded animals, where they are somewhat translucent. 3. According to the best observations, not made on entire limbs or even entire muscles, which involve various fallacies, but on small portions of muscles, removed from living bodies, it appears that no alteration of the bulk of the filaments attends this alteration of their form, so that neither the size nor distance of the particles or globules apj-ears to be changed, but merely their position in regard to one another.f 4. When by any stimulus, applied to mus- cular fibres, the filaments directly stimulated are throv\n into action, the contractions very genendly and rapidly extend to many others in their neighbourhood, frefjuently even to the whole muscle of which they form a part; but the contractions of single fibres appear to be of short duration, and the more enduring efforts to be made by many short successive contractions and relaxations or vibrations of the individual fibres. From these facts it would appear, that each exertion of this property of Irritability essen- tially consists in a gready increased attraction among die particles or globules constituting * This appearance, with slight variations, has been repeatedly seen, both in warm-blooded and cold-blooded animals, in the lower classes and even in the infusory animals, under the micro- scope. t See Prevost and Miimas, in .Journal do Phy- siologic, torn. iii.; and Mayo's Outlines, the muscular fibres, and alteration of the di- rection in which this attraction acts,—rapidly communicated from one particle to another, both along the same fibre, and among adjacent fibres,—and rapidly succeeded by re])ulsion, or return to the previous state of the cohesive attraction existing among these particles. When a muscular mass, consisting of many such fibres, is thrown into this kind of action, it is easy to understand that its breadth and thickness, and its rigidity or resistance to com- pression will be increased ; that its extremities will be approximated ; and that if it be dis- posed around a cavity, containing a fluid and provided with an outlet, that fluid will be expelled. It is by such contractions, that all the more conspicuous movements, even of the organic life, of the higher animals, are per- formed, and that their locomotive and vocal powers are exerted ; and it is worth while to pause for a moment to consider the almost in- conceivable amount of moving power, and ra- pidity of motion, which various facts indicate in muscles thus contracting, whether under the influence of the will, or from other stimuli. It seems well ascertained that the contrac- tions of the left ventricle of the human heart, in its ordinary unexcited state, are sufficient to expel its fluid contents, in free space, a dis- tance of 1\ feet, and to balance a weight of above 50 lbs.; and this power is exerted regu- larly more than once in every second, and often, even independently of disease, twice in every second, during the whole of human life. The ordinary action of the left ventricle of the Whale's heart suttices to expel, according to Dr. Hunter's statement, at each pulsation, above ten gallons of blood, with a great velo- city, through a tube of a foot in diameter. Two instances given by Ilaller, and quite within the limits of ordinary experience, suf-_ ficiently exemplify the great power occasion- ally exerted by voluntary muscles; and which will appear the more extraordinary when it is remembered, that the direction of muscular fibres, as regards the line in which they are to act,—the points of their insertion into the bones they are to move,—and the line in which they act, as regards the motion which they give to these bones,—are all, very ge- nerally, such as to lender their action dis- advantageous, and requiie a greater amount of moving power than might otherwise have been necessary. The instances recorded are, the case of a man, who could raise a weight of 300 lbs. by the action of the elevator mus- cles of his jaw; and that of a slender girl, afflicted with tetanic spasm, in whom the ex- tensor muscles of the back, in the state of tonic contraction or opisthotonos, resisted a weight of above 800 lbs., laid on the abdomen with the absurd intention of straightening the body. In some of the lowest classes of ani- mals the intensity of the muscular power ap- pears to be greater than in any of the largest. Thus, a flea has been known to leap sixty times its own length, and to move as many times its own weight.