581 CETACEA. however, been studied with any detail in the Dolphins, and its principal parts consist in the larynx, which ascends as far as the pos- terior nares; in the disposition of the mus- cles of the pharynx, which have the power of binding the anterior part of the respiratory organ ; and in the membranous and fleshy bags placed at the superior part of the nostrils. The orifice of the spouting hole, which is simple in the Dolphins, is situated towards the summit of the head (f, fig. 269); in the Cachalots it is equally simple, and situated at the superior extremity of the snout; and in the W hales it is double, and opens towards the summit of the head, as in the Dolphins, under the form of a crescent, the convexity of which is sometimes forward and sometimes backward. In the Herbivorous Cetaceans, the orifice of the nostrils is found, in the Manatee at the anterior extremity, and in the Dugong at the middle and upper part of the snout. [We here subjoin the detailed description of the spouting apparatus of the Porpesse, from the pen of Baron Cuvier. " If we trace the oesophagus upwards, we find that when it arrives opposite the pharynx Cw, 269), it appears to divide into two passages, of which one {b) is continued onwards to the mouth, while the other (c) mounts to the nose; this latter passage is surrounded with mucous glands and fleshy fibres which constitute several muscles. Some of these are longitu- dinal, arising from the circumference of the posterior orifice of the bony nostrils, and de- scending along that canal to the pharynx and its lateral parts; the others are annular and seem to be a continuation of the proper mus- cle of the pharynx; as the larynx rises into this passage in the form of an obelisk or py- ramid, these annular fibres have the power of grasping it by their contractions. " All this part is provided with mucous fol- licles which pour out their secretion by con- spicuous excretory orifices. The lining mem- brane of the nasal passage having reached the vomer (rf), assumes a peculiar texture; it be- comes thin, smooth, and of a black colour, is apparently destitute of vessels and nerves, and is very dry. " The two osseous nasal canals are closed at the su])erior or external orifice by a fleshy valve in the form of two semicircles, attached to the anterior margin of that orifice, which it closes by means of a very strong muscle lodged above the intermaxillary bones. In order to open it, some foreign body must press against it from below. When this valve is closed, it cuts off all communication between the nasal pas- sages and the cavities above them. These ca- vities are two large membranous pouches (e, e), formed by a dark-coloured mucous skin, much wrinkled when they are empty ; but assuming, when distended, an oval figure, which, in the Porpesse, equals the capacity of a wine-glass. These two pouches are lodged beneath the integument, in front of the nostrils; they communicate with an intermediate space im- mediately above the nostrils, which open ex- ternally by a transverse semilunar slit. Very strong fleshy fibres form an expansion, which covers all the upper surface of this apparatus; these fibres radiate from the entire circum- ference of the cranium to unite above the two pouches, and are adapted to compress them forcibly. Let us suppose the Cetacean has taken into its mouth some water which it wishes to eject: it moves its tongue and jaws as if it were about to swallow it; but, closing its pharynx, it forces the water to mount into the nasal passages, where its progress is accelerated by annular fibres, until it raises the valve and distends the membranous pouches above. Once in the pouches, the water can be re- tained there until the animal wishes to spout. For that purpose, it closes the valve to prevent the descent of the water into the nasal passages, and it forcibly compresses the pouches by means of the muscular expansions which cover them : compelled then to escape by the nar- row crescentic aperture, it is projected to a height corresponding to the force of the pres- sure." Urinary organs.—The Phytophagous Ceta- ceans are not distinguished by a form and structure of the kidney different from that in the Zoophagous tribes; for, although in the Dugong the kidney has an uniform unbroken external surface, yet in the genus Rijtina, according to Steller, that organ is subdivided into a great number of lobules, as in the Seal and Sea-Otter, and consequently resembles in this respect the typical or true Cetacea. Hun- ter makes the same statement with respect to the Manatee.* In the Dugong the tubuli uriniferi terminate by two lateral series of eleven mammillae in a single elongated pelvis, from which the ureter is continued. In the Porpesse and Whale there is no common pelvis, hut the ureter com- mences by more than two hundred branches from as many distinct lobes or renules, of the aggregate of which the entire kidney is formed (E,fig. 266). Each renule is of a conical figure, having its base towards the circumference, and its apex towards the centre of the kidney ; it is composed of a cortical and medullary substance, the latter terminating in a single mammilla at the apex, where it is surrounded by a long infundibulum, wide at its com- mencement, where it embraces the base of the mammilla, and thence becoming smaller, and uniting with others to form the common ex- cretory duct. Miiller found that each of the lobules of the kidney in the fcEtus of the Dolphin con- sisted principally of the convoluted uriniferous ducts extending from the apex to the periphery of the lobule, the intertwinings of the tubuli being greatest in the cortical part (fig. 270). It is a curious fact that the supra-renal gland in the Porpesse presents a certain resemblance to the kidney in its iobulated exterior; but the analogy extends no farther, for on making a section of this part, it is seen to be composed of the usual continuous compact substance.] * In the paper on Whales, p. 412.