AGE. 67 the phenomena of disease. An examination of the textural properties of the two sets of vessels leads to die same conclusion. Sir Clifton Wintringham, in his Experimental Enquiry, fully demonstrated that the venous coats in the young animal far exceed the arterial in density, and that, consequently, they are less subject to distension. When maturity is attained, the disproportion between the resistances of these vessels no longer exists. However well provided the infant may be with the mechanical apparatus of pores and vessels, these can be of no avail unless the fluid they contain possesses certain chemical properties. Now the blood in early extra- uterine life presents the same general characters as in more advanced periods; but there is yet wanting a comparative analysis of this fluid at different ages.* Inferentially we can enter- tain no doubt that it is fully adapted to the purposes of nutrition, when we consider the conditions of the chylifactive and respiratory functions, and that, although the differences of its composition in early and in more mature periods have not been defined by experiment, they must bear a relation to the different de- grees of nutrition and secretion. The differ- ence, however, between the blood of the infant and that of the aged is perceptible to the senses, and will be noticed hereai'ter. Pursuing the channels of the blood to the heart, we find this organ, as stated above, complete in its functions. Its volume, how- ever, is large in proportion to the size of the body. Its parietes are less firm in texture, and of a paler colour than they afterwards become ; but their contractility is more active. The pulsations are from 120 to 140 in a minute. The large volume is in harmony with the quantity of the fluid, the comparative weakness of its parietes with the small extent to which their impulse requires to be propagated, and with the trifling resistance; and the quick successions of its contractions furnish the fresh supplies of the nutriment required by the energy of growth. In the progressive develop- ment of this organ we notice that the bulk, although increasing so long as general growth continues, is proportionately smaller, a cir- cumstance that corresponds with the diminution of the circulating fluid; the fibres become stronger and of a deeper hue, so that the contractions are more capable of propelling the blood through the greater extent which it has now to traverse, or, more strictly speaking, of communicating a shock to a greater column; but the pulsations are slower, agreeably to the diminished requirements on the part "of the capillary actions. We must not omit to ob- serve that at birth the parietes of the left ventricle scarcely exceed those of the right in thickness; but from this period an alteration * De Blainville states, on the authority of Fourcroy, that in infancy the albumen of the blood is more abundant, that the fibrin is softer and more gelatinous, and that the phospliates are in smaller proportion than in succeeding periods. Cours de Physiologie, t. ii. p. 262. commences, and rapidly proceeds until the thickness of the latter is to that of the former as 1:4. This change corresponds with the closure of the foramen ovale, the obliteration of the ductus arteriosus, and the consequent execution of the systemic circulation by the left ventricle only. The relative capacities of the right and left cavities begin to alter soon after birth. From tables given by Meckel it appears that, while at birth the capacity of the former compared widi that of the latter is as 1 : 1|, at the age of 50 it is nearly 3 : 1.* The lungs at the moment of birth undergo a more remarkable alteration in their form, their texture, and their contents, than any other organ in the system ; but during infancy and childhood they present no appreciable change in their organization, although a change must be inferred from the increase of their function. In infancy there is a smaller con- sumption of oxygen; and the power of gene- rating heat, a function so intimately connected with respiration, is inferior to that possessed in later periods. Much light has been thrown on this subject by the researches of Dr. Ed- wards; and practical observations of the highest mportance in the management of infants, founded upon the facts which he has ascer- tained, are to be met with in his valuable work.-f The inspirations and expirations are more frequent at this early period, although the chemical actions between the air and the blood are less considerable. This greater fre- quency is a necessary accommodation to the rapidity of the circulation. At puberty there is a marked development of the organs of respiration ; the volume of the lungs increases in conformity with the expansion of the thorax; while the greater determination of the blood to their vessels is indicated by the deeper hue of the parenchyma, by the liai)ility to pulmo- nary hemorrhage, so characteristic of this period, and perhaps also by certain diseases which aff'ect the nutrition of these organs. The corresponding activity of function is indi- cated by the increased power of calorification, the energy of muscular motion, and the exalta- tion of the cerebral actions; functions well known to have a direct relation with that of respiration; while the establishment of the generative faculty appears to own a connexion, though somewhat more remote, with the pul- monary development. We pass from the system which imparts new properties to the blood to that which supplies it with nutriment. No imperfection is discoverable in the apparatus of digestion in the new-born infant; every organ is com- plete as an organ, but passes through va- rious changes in adaptation on tlie one hand to the food that is supplied, and to the mode of receiving it, and on the other hand to the demands of the other parts of the body. The organs employed in conveying and modifying the chyle, viz. the lacteals and the mesenteric * Manuel d'Anat. t. ii. p. 284. + On the Influence q| Physical Agents, &c. translated by Drs. Hodglun and Fisher. F 2