684 CIRRHOPODA. meister also places them amongst the Crus- tacea. De Blainville arranges them, under the name of Nematopoda, as a class of his subtype of the Mollusca — MoUusc-articulata ; "the other class of the subtype being formed of the Chitons (Polyplakiphora). He regards them as Crustaceous Mollusca, but admits that they seem to form a transition group uniting tlie Crustacea with the Annelida. M. St. Ange,* however, would rather class them with the Annelida, on account of the closer resemblance which the arrangement of their nervous system bears to that of these animals. Professor Wagner does not doubt that they are really articulated animals, but he would rather place tliem in a distinct class between the Mollusca and Articulata. Setting aside their nervous system, M. Serres sees, in the other parts of their structure, points enough to in- duce him to arrange them with the Mollusca. The same views are entertained by Wiegmann, Goldfuss, and others. Dr. Leach regarded them as truly annulose animals. Dr. Grant (who calls them " entomoid animals enclosed in shells") places them amongst the Articulata, or diploneurose animals, between Rotifera and Annelida, making of them a distinct class, but admitting their great resemblance in many points to the entomostracous Crustacea. Mr. J. V. Thompson (whose admirable researches on the development of the Cirripeds have thrown a new interest around them) holds it as proved by his observations that the Cirripeds do not constitute a distinct class; but that they are naturally and closely connected, on the one hand, with the Decapod Crustacea, through the ISalanids, and, on the other, with the Entomostraca, through the Lepads; further, that they have no relation with the Testacea. All the known Cirripeds may be naturally grouped into two families, one pedunculated, the other sessile. The former includes all the barnacles, properly so called ; the latter, the acorn-shells. The barnacle family have had the name of Campylosomata applied to them by Dr. Leach, who calls the other family Acamtosomata: but we shall use De Blain- ville's synonyms of Lepadicea and Balanidea. The following are the names of the genera generally used at present :^— L Lepadicea. 1. Otion. 2. Cineras. 3. Anatifa. 4. Pollicipes. 5. Scalpellum. IL Balanidea. 1. Balanus. 2. Ochthosia. 3. Conia. 4. Creusia. 5 Clisia. 6. Pyrgoma. 7. Acasta. 8. Coronula. 9. Tubici- nella. 10. Chelonobia. External coverings and organs of support.— There are three principal modifications of the tegumentary organs in this class. The first is that seen in Anatifa, in which it assumes the form of calcareous plates, united by horny ligament, and attached to a cartilaginous pe- duncle. Tiie second form is that common to all the Balanids—a calcareous cone, composed of separable pieces, sessile, and provided with * Mem. sr.r les Cirripedes. Paris, 1835. an opercule of shelly plates. The third form is a general cartilaginous covering, sometimes strengthened by small calcareous plates. The shells of the Cirripeds are similar in general appearance to those of many Acepha- lous Mollusca. They are most fully developed in Anatifa, which has five separate plates, four placed laterally in pairs, and one median. One pair is conside- Fig. 332. rably larger than the other (c, fig. 332) ; it covers all the anleiior part of the animal, and the greater part of the internal organs. The bases of these shells are attached to the car- tilaginous peduncle ; the lower halves of their anterior edges form part of the mar- gin of the slit-like opening through which the arms are protruded (J\g, fig.ZZ2). The inferior pair of shells {d) are of a triangular form; the smallest side completes the margin of the brachial ori- fice ; another side is united by ligament to the upper valve; the third is connected with its fellow by the common intervalvular ligament. The median piece (e) covers the dorsal aspect of the animal. It has an elongated lanceolate shape, curved and grooved internally. Its upper point only is inserted into the peduncle. Its margins are imbedded in the intervalvular ligament. This piece may be compared to the unpaired valve of the shell of Pholas : it oc- cupies nearly the same situation. The surface of these shells is generally denuded of epi- dermis, excepting just around their margins. All three are strongly and regularly marked with lines of growth, from which it is seen that the two pairs of lateral valves increase in size, chiefly, by additions to their margins, which look towards one another; so that the parts first formed are, in the adult animal, re- moved to the greatest possible distance from one another. In the upper valve, the umbo or centre of growth is situated in the anterior- superior angle, close to the termination of the peduncle; in the lower, it is situated in the anterior-inferior angle; and in the dorsal valve, in the point next to the peduncle. All the shells are thin, diaphanous, of nearly the same thickness throughout, yet much less fragile than shells of Acephalous Mollusca which otherwise resemble them. It has been re- marked by Burmeister that the shells of Cir- ripeds resemble those of crustaceous animals more than those of Molluscs : to us it appears that they have a greater degree of density, and a more compact crystalline structure than are commonly met with in Crabs; and that their well-marked lines of growth give them a closer resemblance to shells of acephalous mollusca. In some genera, as Pollicipes, in addition to