CRANIUM. 739 lence, by a line passing on each side along the outer border of the orbitar process of the frontal bone, the junction of the parietal and sphenoid; the parietal and temporal bones; and the lateral limb of the internal crucial spine of the occipital. It is placed obliquely downwards and back- wards, and consists of three principal divisions or platforms—the posterior being the lowest, tlie anterior the highest; and the middle, on a plane between the two. The anterior division is called the anterior Jossie, and sustains the anterior lobes of the brain. It is concave in tlie middle and con- vex on eacli side; it is limited, anteriorly by the merging of the orbitar processes into the general mass of tlie frontal bone, and poste- liorly by the posterior margin of the alae mi- nores. On the median line, from before back- wards, we encounter the foramen caecum; the crista galli; the ethmoidal process of the sphenoid bone; and, lastly, the smooth sur- face of that bone on which the olfactory nerves repose. On either side of the crista galli is the processus cribrosus, with its foramina, and slit for the ethmoidal nerve and vessels ; more outwardly, is the transverse suture uniting this process to the frontal bone, and in it may be seen the internal orifice of the anterior internal orbitar foramen. From hence outwards, is the orbitar process of the frontal bone, somewhat arched, and displaying, more evidently than in the rest of the skull, the digital impressions of the brain; behind this is the transverse suture uniting it to the small wings of the sphenoid bone; and, lastly, there is the upper surface of the small wings themselves. The middle J'ossa consist of two large fossce laterally, and one, which is smaller, centrally. This latter is the pituitary fossa; in its front is tlie olivary, and, behind it, is the basilar process ; on its sides are the sulci carotici, and its corners are bounded by the ephippial or clinoid processes. In front of tlie olivary process is the groove on which the optic nerves decussate; and between it and the anterior ephippial processes of each side is the foramen opticum. Tlie lateral fossae are very deep and of an irregular triangular figure, the base of which is directed outwards. Anteriorly they are bounded by the small wings of tlie sphenoid bone, and posteriorly by the ridge which se- parates the cerebral from the cerebellar surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. Each is formed, anteriorly and internally, by the great wing of the sphenoid ; posteriorly, by the cerebral surface of the petrous process; and, externally, by the squamous process of the temporal bone. In it are seen the lines of junction between these parts, and the sulci formed by the spinous artery of the dura mater. At its anterior boundary there is the foramen lacerum orbitale superius; and behind it, inclining gradually outwards, there are in suc- cession, tlie foramen rotundum, the foramen ovale, the foramen spinale, the sulcus Vidi- anus, the liiatus Fallopii, the depression for the Gasserian ganglion, and the processus semi- circularis. To the inner side of this range, and on a level with the foramen ovale, is the foramen lacerum anterius. The posterior division extends from the basilar process of the sphenoid bone to the internal tubercle of the occiput. Its margin is of a triangular figure, with its base curved and directed backwards. The petrosal ridges form the sides of the triangle, and the lateral limbs of tlie internal crucial spine, its base. On the median line and passing backwards we observe the superior sulcated surface of the basilar process, with a groove on each side for the basilar sinus; the foramen magnum with the anterior condyloid foramina near its ante- rior part; and, lastly, the inferior limb of the internal crucial spine, separating the two great cerebellar fossa;. Each of the latter is bounded, above and to the outside, by a broad groove for the lateral sinus, which groove passes from the occipital bone to the mastoid angle of the parietal, from thence to the mastoid process of the temporal (where the mastoid foramen opens into it), and, ulti- mately, to the occipital bone again, where it turns forwards to the foramen lacerum pos- terius. In this groove is seen the termination of the lambdoidal suture, and the additamentuin suturae squamosa; and the additamentum su- turae latnbdoidalis cross it; the principal portion of die latter being seen in the cere- bellar fossa. Anteriorly, and above the fora- men lacerum posterins, is the cerebellar surface of the petrous process of the temporal bone; exhibiting the openings of the meatus audi- torius internus and of the aqueduct of the vestibule; and, on the ridge which separates this from the cerebral surface, the groove for the petrosal sinus. The calvaria possesses in its centre a dense curved rib, which extends through the roof from the anterior to the posterior part of the base, but which is more evident at its extre- mities than in its middle, where it is generally marked by a groove for the longitudinal sinus. The frontal spine commences it, and its ter- mination is the superior limb of the internal crucial spine; the intermediate portion (where it is masked) is the sagittal suture. On each side, and from before backwards, we notice in succession the frontal depression; the coro- nal suture ; the parietal depression, and several arterial sulci running towards it from below; part of the lambdoidal suture; and, lasdy, the cerebral fossa of the occipital bone. On each side of the sagittal suture are the fossae Pacchioni, and, near its back part, the foramen parietale. A comparison of the external and internal surfaces of the cranium establishes the fact that there is a general correspondence of the two as far as regards those parts which are in contact with the periphery of the brain. But, between the several divisions of that organ, there are developed on the inside of the skull very large ribs and processes which destroy the particular correspondence of the two surfaces.