AVES. 354 Fig. 182. organ is either double, as in Serpents, when, however, each penis is extremely small; or it is single, but in this case, to whatever extent it may be developed, it always consists of a uniform ligamentous and vascular elastic sub- stance, and, as in the Tortoise, is simply grooved along the upper surface or dorsum for the passage of the fecundating fluid. As there is no true urethral canal, so neither are the glands of Cowper or the prostatic glands present. The testes (x,fig.\Q6, a, a, fig. 182) are two in number; in form more or less oval, situated above the upper extremities of the kidneys. They vary remarkably in colour in different birds; we may mention, as examples, that they are white in the Peregrine Falcon and and Dove; pale yellow in the Horn-Owl, and Gallinule ; of a brighter yellow in the Magpie, Bay Ibis, Ruff, and Oys- ter-catcher; of a black colour in the Chough, Partridge, Heron, Sea- gull, but whitish towards the lower end in the last 2' tvs?o. They are invested with a strong and dense albuginean tunic. Their structure is evidently tu- bular, the contorted tu- bules are very slender, scarcely exceeding in di- ameter the seminal fa- Uftruinj and male organs bules of mammalia: they "/« (^o<^l'- are sepai-ated into packets by delicate and mem- branous septa, continued from the inner surface ot the tunica albuginea. The arteries spread in an arborescent form beneath that capsule. The vas deferens (c c) is continued from the posterior and internal part of the gland. The periodical variations of size which the testicles undergo are very remarkable in the Class of Birds; and the limited period during which their function is in activity is compen- sated by the frequency and energy with which it is exercised. The proportional size which the testes ac- quire at the breeding season is immense, as may be seen in the subjoined figures (183) of the testesof the House-Sparrow;* which commences with the glands as they appear in January, when they are no bigger than pins' heads, and ends with their full development in April. It rarely happens that both testes are deve- loped in exactly the same degree, but the increase of size is not limited to the one on the left side. The right testis is as often the platc^*^^- W"nter, in the Animal CEconomy, Fig. 183. ® 1. January. 2. Middle of February. 3. Beginning of March. 4. Latter end of March. 5. Middle of April. Testes of the House-Sparrow. largest, and we have seen an example, in a Rook, where it alone had taken on the action of sexual increase, and had acquired a bulk compensating for the want of development in the left testis. In most Birds, the only appearance of an epididymis is a remnant of the Wolffian body or primordial matrix of the genital and urinary organs (b, fig. 182). This part frequently pre- sents a colour strikingly different from that of the testes: thus it has been observed in the Bustard and Curassow to be black ; in the Cassowary, yellow; and in the Anthropoides Virgo to be of a green colour. In the Ostrich the epididymis is folded upon itself at the side of the testis. The vas deferens commonly passes down to the cloaca by the side of the ureters without undergoing any remarkable convo- lution ; but in the common Cock it is bent upon itself in short transverse folds from side to side almost from its commencement; the folds gradually but slightly increase as they approach the cloaca, both in extent and in the diameter of the tube composing them, and they are so closely compacted as to present in a longitudinal section the appearance of a series of cells, which are capable of retaining, as in a vesicula seminalis, a quantity of the seminal secretion. Each vas deferens in the Common Cock terminates on a separate rudimentary penis or papilla, situated in the urethro-sexual division of the cloaca at a little distance from each other, and anterior to, or sternad of the inser- tions of the ureters. The base of each papilla is surrounded by a remarkable plexus of arteries and veins {M, M, fig. 171) which serve as an erectile organ during the venereal orgasm, when the turgid papillae are