461 BONE, PATHOLOGICAL CONDITIONS OF. be, as paper, and in some spots nearly entirely absorbed evidently shewing that the morbid action had commenced and increased from within; the substance of this newly-formed mass being neither cartilage nor ligament, but per- haps something between both, and yet not so entirely so as to deserve the name of ligamento- cartilai;inous, or to be likened to any natural animal product whatever. It has been de- scribed by Bell as a substance much resembling callus.* Again, in another specimen as it ap- pears in the adult, (in the lower jaw for in- stance,) the part of the bone in which the dis- ease commenced is completely spoiled and changed into a mass of this new material, assu- ming a rotund tuberculated appearance. From thence downwards, towards the spot where the bone is not spoiled, there is an admixture of this new material with gritty particles of bone generally disposed in a radiated form; the en- tire containing cells filled here and there with a dark-coloured fluid, and traversed throughout by a foul and fetid ulceration. But osteo-sar- comatous tumours, although generally consist- ing of this firm material, are by no means so invariably. In one remarkable instance in which the disease occupied the femur, a vertical section of the inferior end, which was mon- strously enlarged, exhibited a mass of much softer consistence, and cellulated or porous. Its colour was a mottled dark brown, and it re- sembled nothing so much as a dirty sponge that had been soaked in blood and matter. Sometimes the tumour is so soft as almost to resemble brain : sometimes tliere are cysts con- taining fluid like blood : in the long bones there is constantly a fracture in the centre of the tu- mour, or if the swelling occupies the shaft, the articulating surfaces are broken from it.f Very often this fracture is, or seems to be, the com- mencement of the disease. We collect from these observations and dis- sections that osteo-sai'coma, as we understand the term, consists in a morbid alteration inte- resting the entire structure of a bone; com- mencing in its interior, and incapable of re- medy or removal unless by amputation. We have already stated that its chief malignancy consisted in some constitutional predisposition which originally led to its formation, and in- duces a recurrence of it in some other situation after removal, and we wish to examine into the correctness of this opinion in order to separate it from cancer and fungus haeinatodes, because some diversity of opinion obtains on this part of the subject, which after all is the only one of practical importance. Boyer,! who considers malignancy as constituting the very essence of the disease, nevertheless recognizes two species. " In one, the osteo-sarcoma is propagated by the continuity of some cancerous aff'ection, which had commenced in the adjacent soft parts, as is seen, for example, in the bones * See Bell's Principles of Surgery^ 4to edition, vol. iii. part 1. t We liave taken the above descriptions entirely from preparations in the school of Park-street, Dublin. t Traite des Maladies Chinirgicales, torn. iii. which form the walls of the nasal fossse, and more particularly in the superior maxilla when they become spoiled as the result of a hard and cancerous polypus, which had previously existed for a long time insulated, and without any other local affection. In the second species the bone is the original seat of the disease, its own proper tissue is degenerated, and the sur- rounding soft parts only partake of the same species of alteration consecutively and in a secondary manner." Dupuytren,* in describ- ing the disease as it attacks the lower jaw, offers pretty nearly a similar opinion. If, says he, the osteo-sarcoma is primitive, it remains a long time confined to the bone, and may ac- quire a very considerable volume before the lips and cheeks are affected. It then presents itself under two principal forms: in the one, the disease consists in cancerous fungi, which spring from the substance of the bone, within which the disease is often superficial, that is, it may only affect the alveolar edge or the surface, the body of the bone remaining without any enlargement, and particularly its base continu- ing sound. The second form is that in which the disease commences in the centre of the bone, which becomesJieshy, and swells through- out its entire thickness. Most tumours of this description acquire a considerable size, and oc- casion a most repulsive deformity. The teeth, loosened and displaced, appear implanted here and there in the substance of the bone. It is impossible to close the jaws. The lips, dis- tended, thinned, and closely applied to the tumour, no longer retain the saliva, which trickles off continually. It is, however, worthy of remark that these tumours, or at least many of them, are slow to ulcerate or pass into the condition of cancer. Sir A. Cooperf has evi- dently made a similar division of osteo-sarco- matous tumours, and described them with his accustomed accuracy and clearness, but under the names of cartilaginous and fungous exosto- sis. Mr. Crampton,J in his paper on osteo- sarcoma, also divides it into two species, the " mild and the malignant," stating, at the same time, that the nature of either previous to dis- section after removal or after death is involved in the greatest obscurity. lie considers the encysted condition of the tumour, its lying m a bed of cellular tissue unconnected with the surrounding parts, as indicative of mildness: the characters of the malignant, as laid down by him, are evidently those of genuine carci- noma. " The soft bleeding fungus, which makes its way through the integuments before the tumour has acquired any very considerable size; the profuse and peculiarly fetid discharge, slightly tinged with the red particles of the blood ; the tubercles of a purple colour on the surrounding skin, which adheres firmly to the subjacent tumour ; the pain, and above all the altered health, sufliciently point out the malig- nant character of the disease " We have thus laid before our readers the * Lemons Oralcs, torn. iv. p. 636. t Cooper and Travers's Surgical Essays. t Dub. Hosp. Reports, vol. iv.