CILIA. 632 in the mouth and pharynx. It was also sought for unsuccessfully in the lachrymal passages. The authors mentioned have now examined it in twelve species of Mammalia, and have found the same appearance in all of them ; they add that, although they have had no op- portunity of inspecting the parts in the human body so soon after death as to see the cilia in motion, yet by covering the surfaces to be examined with blood, which preserves the ap- pearance longer than any other fluid, they were able on examination, thirty hours after death, satisfactorily to distinguish the cilia both in the nose and windpipe. I have seen the phenomena in the nose, trachea, and Fallopian tubes of the Rabbit, and in the trachea of the Dog.* According to Purkinje and Valentin the motion occurs in the uterine mucous mem- brane, both in the impregnated and unimpreg- nated state; but in gravid animals it appears only on those parts of the uterus which are not adherent to the chorion or external enve- lope of the foetus. The direction of the impul- sion they state to be from the internal ex- tremity of the tube, towards the orifice of the vagina. It seems wanting on the genital mem- brane of young animals. On the other hand, it occurs in the respiratory passages of the foetus, it was detected in foetal calves and lambs, and in foetal pigs not more than two inches long. The authors could not with cer- tainty distinguish the direction of the im- pulsion in the air-passages of Mammalia. In some parts of the nose of the Rabbit, I have been able to trace it clearly enough by means of charcoal powder, the parts being placed in tepid water. On tlie inferior turbinated bone the grains of powder were slowly carried for- wards, following the direction of the project- ing laminae of the bone. On breaking open the maxillary sinus and trying its lining mem- brane in the same way, the impulsion seemed to be directed towards the back part of the cavity, where its opening is situated. By the same means I traced the direction in the wind- pipe of a young dog a few days old ; the im- pulsion was best marked on the posterior part of the tube, and there it was obviously di- rected towards the larynx, the direction being thus different from what Purkinje and Valentin observed in the domestic Fowl. PART II. 1. Summary of the animals in which the ciliary motion has been discovered. From the foregoing facts it appears that the ciliary motion is a phenomenon which prevails most extensively in the animal kingdom, hav- ing been found in the highest as well as the lowest members of the Zoological scale. Among Vertrebated Animals it has been dis- covered in Mammalia, Birds, and Reptiles, viz. the Batrachia, Sauria, Ophidia, and Chelonia. Of the Invertebrata it has been found in Mollusca, viz. Gasteivpoda, Cunchi- ferous acephala, and' Tunicata ; in Annelida, * Edin. New Philos. Journal, xix. viz. Aphrodita, Arenicola, and many Tubi- colar worms, also in Planarice and Naiades; in Echinodermata, viz. the Asterias and Echinus; in Actinise; in Medusae; in Polypi; in Sponges; and in Infusoria. It is a remarkable fact that no trace of it has been observed in Fishes. I at one time supposed that the pendent filaments of the gills of the fcetal Skate and Shark might probably be found to exhibit it; but my friend, Dr. Allen Thomson, has care- fully inspected those of the Skate without being able to perceive any appearance of it.* 2. Organs or parts of the body in which the ciliary motion has been ascertained to exist. These may be referred to four heads, viz. the skin or surface of the body, the respiratory, alimentary, and reproductive systems. Its use in all these cases, or the function in general of the cilia, is to convey fluids or other matters along the surface on which the cilia are placed, or, as in the Infusoria, to carry the entire animal through the fluid. a. Surface of the body.—Cilia have been found on different parts of the external surface, in Batrachian larvse, in Mollusca, Annelida, Echinodermata, Actinise, Medusae, Polypi, and Infusoria. Their function in this situation is various ; in most cases it is evidently respi- ratory, but in many instances it is also locomo- tive, as in Infusoria and Medusae, or prehensile, as in Infusoria and Polypi; and perhaps it is in some animals subservient to the sense of touch or smelling, as may be conjectured with regard to the cilia on the tentacula of some Mollusca. b. Respiratory system.—The ciliary motion has been observed on the lining membrane of the air-passages of Mammalia, Birds, and Rep- tiles; and there, whatever may be its other uses, it at least serves to convey the secretions along the membranes, together with foreign matters, if any are present. It exists also on the external gills of Batrachian larvae, and on the gills of Mollusca and Annelida. In other Annelida, in Echinodermata and Actiniae, it is found on the external surface of the viscera and on the parietes of the cavity containing them, to which cavity the water has access. The pores and canals of the Sponge are pro- bably both respiratory and alimentary passages, and under this head we must refer again to the cilia on the external surface of Medusae, Polypi, and Infusoria, as belonging partly to the respi- ratory system. The use of the ciliary motion on the respiratory organs of animals with aquatic respiration is obviously to renew the water on the respiring surface. c. Alimentary system.—The motion occurs in the mouth, throat, and gullet of Reptiles, in the entire alimentary canal of Mollusca, on * Since the above was written, a short notice has appeared in I'lnstitut" of 16th December, 1835, of the Transactions of the Leopoldine Aca- demy for 1834-35, from which it appears that Pur- kinje and Valentin have at last succeeded in detect- ing the phenomenon in Fishes. They found it in the organ of smelling and the internal genital organs of the female. No further particulars are stated.