BONE, PATHOLOGICAL CONDITIONS OF. 439 As life advances, the osseous system un- dergoes many obvious alterations. The shape of some bones is altered : the natural curvatures of the long bones, for example, are increased ; the direction of the processes and parts of others is changed, the most remarkable example of which occurs in the neck of the thigh-bone ; and their powers of affording sup- port and resisting violence are obviously en- feebled. This senile fragility has been gene- rally supposed to arise from an increase in the earthy material of the bones. The opinion, however, has not been invariably borne out by the results of chemical analysis of bones at different periods of life, and has been objected to by M. Ribes,* who, after extensive obser- vation and enquiry, was led to believe " that the fragility of bones depended essentially on a change of action being established within them, and that all the parts entering into the texture of bones are really in less quantity in the aged than in younger individuals." If by " a change of action" in the above passage is meant that gradual decrease of the vital properties observed in every organ and in every tissue as man declines into the vale of years, we cordially agree in the opinion; being satisfied that the results of chemical or me- chanical enquiries, however true in themselves, will always be insufficient to explain the ope- rations carried on within a living body. Having offered these preliminary remarks, we proceed with an attempt at an arrangement of the pathology of the osseous system, fully aware, indeed, that every classification of dis- ease must be more or less artificial, and, diere- fore, open to objection. Perhaps it may be advantageously considered under the three fol- lowing heads. 1. Cases in which there is a real or supposed derangement or imperfection in the processes carried on within the bone itself in order to its maintenance in the normal or healthy condition. 2. Cases in which there is inflammation of the bone, whether produced by injury, appearing idio- pathically, or connected with some specific taint. The pathological conditions of the pe- riosteum are so intimately connected with this part of the subject, that some reference to its diseases must of necessity be made. 3. Cases in which there is alteration of the original struc- ture or development of a new one ; as thus:—■ DISEASES OF THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. Class i. Derangements of internal/unctions. a. Deficiency of the calca- reous deposit Rachitis. b. Superabundance of the calcareous deposit ..Fragility. c. Absorption of the calca- reous deposit Mollities. (/. Absorption of both con- stituents Atrophy. Class ir. Injiannnution. a. Simple inflammation ..Adhesion Union of fracture. Suppuration Abscess in bone. Ulceration Caries. Mortification Exfoliation. Death with regeneration Necrosis. b. Specific inflammation . .Scrofula Absorption of cancelli. Deposit of a cheesy substance. Softening of the bone. Abscess. Caries. Syphilis Deposit of fluid between the periosteum and bone. Node. Caries. Class in. Structural diseases. a. Spina ventosa Development of a new cavity within a bone, with unnatural contents. b. Exostosis Growth of a tumour in or from a bone, which may consist of Bone. Cartilage. Both structures pixed. c. Osteo-sarcoma Alteration of structure with deposit of a new material. (1. Cancer.f c. Fungus hsematodes.f J'. Bloody cellulated tu- mour within bone. * Wo refer our residors for a summary of M. Kibes' opinions, &c. lo the Dictioniiairc (Ics Sciences Moilicales, vol. xxxviii. p. 4.5<i ct seq. t Tlicso diseases arc generally, if not alwavs, propagated from a jacent parts or structures.