AVES. 331 gurgitation by thi« orifice is prevented is one second muscular valve, which, though small, is of the chief peculiarities in the heart of Birds. Fig. 168. Fig. 169. Venlride^ of tfuj heart of a Swan. The right ventricle {k,fg. 168) is a narrow trian- gular cavity, applied as it were to the right and anterior side of the left ventricle, but not ex- tending to the apex of the heart. The parietes are smooth, and, except at the septum ventri- culorum, they are of pretty uniform thickness, but weaker in comparison to those of the left ventricle than in Mammalia. A number of short fleshy columns extend from the septum to the free parietes of the ventricle at the angle of union of these two parts, leaving deep cells be- tween them; a strong fleshy column {m,fig. 169) also extends from the right side of the base of the pulmonary artery to the upper extremity of the auriculo-ventricular valve; but these are the only culumna carnea in the right ventricle ; there being none of a pyramidal form pro- jecting into the cavity, nor any chorda; ten- dinea. The principal valve which guards the auricular aperture is a strong muscular fold {I, fig- 167, 168, 169), nearly as thick as tlie walls of the ventricle itself, extending from the fleshy column above mentioned obliquely down- wards and backwards to the angle formed be- tween the septum cordis and the wall of the ventricle at the lower and posterior part of the cavity. The free rounded edge of this muscular valve is turned towards the convex projection made by the septum, and must be forcibly ap- plied to this part during the systole of the ventricles, so that, while all reflux into the auricle is prevented, additional impulse is given to the flow of blood through the pulmonary artery; the muscular parietes of the ventricle being thus complete at every part except at the orifice of the artery. The small muscular column {m,fig. 169) at the upper part of the auricular orifice is analo- gous in its position to the single valve which guards the corresponding orifice in Reptiles ; in which class the Crocodiles alone present a ion of the ventricles, Pelecan. analogous in its position, and evidently a rudi- mental form of the large muscular valve in Birds. The right ventricle is remarkable for tlie smoothness and evenness of its inner surface. The pulmonary artery is provided at its origin with three semicircular valves {n, Jig. 169). It divides, as usual, into two branches {n, n,fg. 168), one for each lung; the right branch passes under the arch of the aorta. The aerated blood is returned from the lungs by two veins which open into the back part of the left auricle; a strong semilunar ridge, which is hardly sufficiently produced to be called a valve, divides the cavity of the auricle in which the veins terminate from the mus- cular part or appendix. The fleshy columns are very numerous and complicated in this part of the auricle, which is closely tied down to the ventricle by the serous layer of the pericar- dium and dense cellular tissue. The left ventricle {o,fg. 168,169) is an elon- gated conical cavity, the parietes of which are three times as thick as those of the right ventricle, and exhibit strongfleshy columns extending from the apex towards the base; two of the largest of these columns present in the Emeu a short convex eminence towards the auriculo-ventri- cular orifice (r,jig. 169), and give off short thick tendons to the margin and ventricular surface of two membranous folds, {p, g,Jig. 168, 169) which correspond to the mitral valve in Mam- malia. Of these valves, the one next the aorta (i/) corresponds to the single valve which guards the auricular opening in the heart of Reptiles, and is most developed in Bu-ds; the oppo- site valve is of much less size. In many Birds the chorda; tendineae pass from the valves at once to the parietes of tlie ventricle, and are not attached to columna; carneaa. The surface of the ventricle formed by the septum is smooth from the orifice of the aorta down to the apex of the heart. The aorta is provided, as in Mam- maUa, with three semicircular valves. In Rep- tiles, even in the Crocodile, the great arteries arising from the ventricles are each provided with two valves only. We have observed that in general the valves at the base of the pulmonary artery were thicker and stronger than those at the origin of the aorta, and our lamented and talented friend Mr. Home Clift discovered some years