CHEIROPTERA. 599 in most species it is more or less lanceolate in its form; in Vespertilio spastiia it is forked, and in the great Bat of Britain, Vespertilio noctula, it is short, blunted, with a rounded head, thickish, and I have observed it beset with numerous minute glands, which do not occur in those species having the thin lan- ceolate form of this part. Its use is probably to prevent the rush of air into the open ear during flight; and where it does not exist, as in the Horse-shoe Bats (Rliinolophus), its place is supplied by a large rounded lobe which is capable of still more effectually closing the external meatus. In the internal ear there is an equal diver- sity of structure in the two groups in question. The cochlea is particularly developed in the insectivorous group; being much larger than the semicircular canals; the circumference of that of RhinolophiLS is no less than four times the circumference of the canals, and its cavity exhibits ten times the diameter of one of them. In Pteropus this disproportion is very much less. The meatus is short and, as well as the tympanic cavity, extremely large and open. But it is in the sense of touch probably that the most extraordinary and interesting pecu- liarities are to be observed. Spallanzani hav- ing observed the power which these animals possess of flying with perfect accuracy in the dark, and of avoiding every obstacle that pre- sents itself with the same unerring certainty as in the light, instituted a series of experiments, the results of which proved that bats when deprived of sight by the extirpation of the eyes, and, as far as possible, of hearing and smell by the obliteration of the external pas- sages of those senses, were still capable of directing their flight with the same security and accuracy as before, directing their course through passages only just large enough to admit them without coming into contact with ilie sides, and even avoiding numerous small threads which were stretched across the room in various directions, the wings never, even by accident, touching any of them. These marvellous results led him to believe that these animals are endowed with a sixth sense, the immediate operation as well as the locality of which is, of course, unknown to and unap- preciable by us : but the sagacity of Cuvier* removed the mystery without weakening the interest of these curious facts, by referring to the flying membrane as the seat of this extra- ordinary faculty. According to this view of the subject, the whole surface of the wings on both sides may be considered as an enor- mously expanded organ of touch, of the most exquisite sensibility to the peculiar sensation for which it is intended ; and it is, therefore, by the varied modification of the impulsion of the atmosphere upon this surface, that the knowledge of the propinquity of foreign bodies is communicated. This membrane is every where furnished with oblique or transverse bands, consisting of lines of minute dots re- * Le9on3 d'Anatomie Comparee, t. ii. p 582. serabling in some measure strings of very small glands or cutaneous follicles. May there not be some connexion between these peculiar little bodies and the extraordinary function just described ? The tendency to an extraordinary develop- ment of the dermal system is not confined to the organs now mentioned, of the senses of touch and of hearing. The organ of' smell is in many insectivorous Bats, as in the whole family Rhinolophida, furnished with foli- aceous appendages, formed of the integument doubled, folded, and cut into the most curious and grotesque forms. These nasal leaflets are found principally or exclusively to belong to a group, the habits of which are more com- pletely lucifugous and retired than any others; they are found in the darkest penetralia of caverns, and other places where there is not even the imperfect light which the other genera of Bats enjoy. It is probable that this deve- lopment of skin around the nose is intended to give increased power and delicacy to the organ of smell, as well as to regulate the access of the odoriferous particles, and thus to super- sede the sense of vision, in situations where the latter would be unavailable. In the genus Nycteris a curious faculty is observed, namely, the power of inflating the sub- cutaneous tissue with air. The skin adheres to the body only at certain points, where it is connected by means of a loose cellular mem- brane ; it is therefore susceptible of being raised from the surface, on the back as well as on the under parts. These large spaces are filled with air at the will of the animal, by means of large cheek pouches, which are pierced at the bottom, and thus communicate with the subcutaneous spaces just mentioned. When the animal therefore wishes to inflate its skin, it inspires, closes the nostrils, and then contracting the cavity of the chest, the air is forced through the openings in the cheek pouches under the skin, from whence it is prevented from returning by means of a true sphincter, with which those openings are furnished, and by large valves on the neck and back. By this curious me- chanism the bat has the power of so com- pletely blowing up the spaces under the skin, as to give the idea, as Geotfroy observes, " of u little balloon furnished with wings, a head, and feet." The digestive organs of the Cheiroptera ex- hibit as distinct a division into the two prin- cipal groups before-mentioned, as any other part of their anatomy. The teeth have been already alluded to, and the characters of these important organs, important as indicating, in the most unerring manner, the nature of the food, are well-marked in the two groups. The flattened crowns of the molares, so similar to those of the Quadrumana which are found to belong to the frugivorous Bats, are strikingly contrasted with the many-pointed tuberculous teeth of the insect-feeders, and exhibit an in- teresting affinity to the two important orders of animals to which the Cheiroptera may be con- sidered intermediate; the former division re-