CIRCULATION. 646 heart (h, H) receives tlie whole venous blood of the body by the lioht auricle, and a small quantity of arterial blood from the lungs by the left. These two kinds of blood, mixed together in the common ventricle, proceed from thence into the aortic bulb and its branches {A, B, b). In the larva of the Sala- mander and Protean Reptiles, a part of the blood is sent by pulmonary vessels to the lungs, from which it is returned by the pul- monary veins to the heart; a part passes di- rectly round the arches, and gains the descend- ing aorta; the greatest quantity passes out into the gills, and after being arterialized returns to be mi.xed with tliat in the aorta, so that a mixed blood must permeate all the vessels of the systemic circulation. In the Siren, accord- ing to Cuvier and Owen, the whole blood goes at once to the gills, from the want of any com- municating twigs across the root of these organs. It is interesting to remark that the arteries of the head and upper extremities (a) are not given off by tiie aortic arches until after they are joined by the returning branchial vessels, a disposition which is in some respect similar to what we find in higher Reptiles, and which seems to have for its object the supply of a more pure arterial blood to the cerebral organ. In the larva of the Frog, the course of the blood is very similar to that of Fishes. The whole of the venous blood propelled through the heart is sent into the gills, and is made to pass through them before reaching any other part. From the posterior parts of the first ai'ches are given off the vessels of the head, the second form the right and left roots of the de- scending aorta, and the fourth are continued upon the lungs in the form of a pulmonary artery. There is however also in the larva of the Frog a short anastomosis between the out- going and returning artery of each of the gills, which allows of a direct passage of some blood round the arches of the aorta. In the Protean Reptiles and larva of the Batrachia a greater quantity of blood is sent to the respiratory organ than occurs in the adult Frog or Salamander. Portal circulation in Reptiles.-—In the class of Reptiles there are two lesser venous circula- tions besides those already described; the one, similar to the portal circulation of warm-blooded animals, belongs to the liver; the other, which does not appear to occur either in Birds or Mammalia, belongs to the kidneys. According to Jacobson, who was the first to point out the existence of veins carrying blood to the kidneys in the Amphibia, and the later researches of Nicolai and others, there are two principal ves- sels which carry back blood from the posterior parts of the body, viz. the anterior abdominal, and the inferior renal veins. These two vessels are formed by the union of the iliac, caudal, posterior cutaneous, pelvic, visceral, abdominal, and umbilical veins; and in most Reptiles, ex- cepting the Ophidia, the renal and portal vessels proceeding from the posterior parts of the body arise together. In some Reptiles the whole of the blood returning from the posterior parts of the body is divided between the portal veins of the liver, and the vense advehentes of the kidney; in others a part is also sent into the abdominal vena cava. The inferior renal or advehent veins of the kidneys (Jigs. 316, 317, and 318, K) carry venous blood to these organs, and distribute it minutely through their substance. It is removed from thence and returned into the great circulation by the revehent or superior renal veins (/c) which lead into the vena cava.* The anterior abdominal vein (Jig. 316, u) is the same to which Bojanus has given the name of umbilical in the Tortoise, in which class of ani- mals it is of very large dimensions, and receives not only the venous blood from the posterior extremities and shell, but also some from the anterior extremities. Tlie persistence of those umbilical veins which proceed from the large urinary bladder in many of the adult reptiles is a fact of some interest, because it points out a resemblance between the permanent distribu- tion of the vessels in these reptiles and the foetal condition which we find in the higher animals, and likens the bladder of the scaly Reptiles, as well as of the Batrachia in which during foetal life no allantoid membrane is ever formed, rather to an allantoid receptacle than to a proper urinary bladder. Fishes.—In fishes there is no vestige of a pulmonary organ, and the respiration is wholly effected by means of the gills. The branchial apparatus of fishes is internal or covered, like that of the larva of the frog; it is placed on the cervical part of the alimentary canal, and is formed by the fine subdivisions of aortic arches (Jig. 319, A, B, b), which are prolonged into the fringed or leafy processes of the hyoid branchial arches. The respiratory organ is thus placed in this class in the course of the arterial circulation. The venous blood from the body generally, and from the liver, enters the single auricle {/>) through the great sinus ( V), and is wholly propelled into the arterial bulb by (A) the single ventricular cavity (H). No systemic arteries come from the aortic bulb, but this vessel carries by the arches into which it divides (B), the whole of the venous blood into the gills. The number of these arches subdividing and ramifying in the gills varies in different fishes. In a few, as the Lophius, there are only three on each side. In most osseous fishes there are four. In the Skates and Sharks there are five. In the Lampreys there is the greatest number known, namely, six or seven. Tlie blood, after having undergone arteria- lization in the gills, is not returned to the heart, but proceeds directly through the branches of the aorta Cfig.319*, b b, A) to difl^erent organs. The force of the heart acts therefore through the whole of the capillary system of the gills (be), and continues to propel the arterialized blood * It must be remarked that Meckel, who appears to have examined the distribution of the above men- tioned vessels with great care, denies entirely the advehent function of the lower veins of the kidneys both in fishes and reptiles, considering all the veins of the kidney as revehent. Vergleich. Anat. B.V. S. 201 and 253.