490 CAROTID ARTERY. branches enter the orbit through the malar bone, and spread over the laclirymal gland, communicating with the lachrymal artery. h. The alveolar artery descends forwards over the superior maxillary bone, very tortuous in its course ; it gives two or three twigs, which pass into the inferior and posterior dental fora- mina to be distributed to the lining membrane of the antrum maxillare and the molar teeth; the other branches of the alveolar artery are distributed to the gums, to the buccinator, to the periosteum of the superior maxillary bone, and to the cellular substance of the cheek : they communicate with the infra-orbital, labial and buccal. i. The infra-orbital artery arises from the internal maxillary at the superior part of the pterygo-maxillary space; it enters the infra- orbital canal, through which it passes forwards and inwards, sendmg branches into the orbit and maxillary sinus; passing out by the infra- orbital hole it comes forward on the face behind the levator labii superioris, and termi- nates in a number of branches, which pass into the muscles of the upper lip, and anastomose with the labial, alveolar, buccal, and nasal branch of the ophthalmic. The remaining branches of the internal max- illary are given off in the pterygo-maxillary space; of these the first is /. The superior palatine descends behind the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone in the palato-maxillary canal : it usually gives off two branches, which descend through holes in the pterygoid process of the palate bone, and are distributed to the soft palate; while the trunk of the superior palatine passing out of the posterior palatine hole, directs itself for- wards and inwards in a groove on the surface of the hard palate, and divides into numerous branches, which are distributed to the mucous membrane and glands of the palate, to the gums, and to the superior maxillary bone ; one of these branches sometimes passes up through the foramen incisivum to the nasal fossa;. m. The vidian artery is an insignificant branch which traverses the vidian canal from before backwards, and coming out of its poste- rior opening is distributed to the Eustachian tube and the roof of the pharynx: it anasto- moses with the inferior pharyngeal. n. The ptei'ygo-palatine or superior pha- ryngeal is a small insignificant branch, which passes through the pterygo-palatine hole, and _ is distributed like the former to the roof of the pharynx and Eustachian tube, sending some branches to the sphenoid bone and the mem- brane lining its sinuses. o. The spheno-pulatine artery maybe con- sidered the termination of the internal maxil- lary ; it enters by the spheno-palatine hole into the posterior part of the nasal fossa;, and divides into two principal branches ; an external and an internal; the internal branch passing across the roof of the nasal fossse arrives at die septum, on which its branches are principally distri- buted ; it also supplies branches to the roof of the pharynx and the posterior ethmoidal cells; the external branch descends on the lateral wall of the nose, sending its branches over the spongy bones and into the antrum m.axillare : these branches anastomose with the ethmoidal branches of the ophthalmic artery. The internal carotid artery, (carotis in- terna seu cerebralis, Samm. c'trebrale anterieure, Chaussier.)This artery is larger than the external carotid in the foetus, but in the adultis only equal in sizeto that vessel, aud sometimes even smaller. At its origin it takes a curve outwards so as to get external to the commencement of the ex- ternal carotid; it then mounts upwards and forwards in front of the three superior cervical vertebrae, and making a few contortions along the side of the pharynx, enters the foramen caroticum of the temporal bone, traversing the carotid canal of that bone internal to the ca- vernous sinus, perforates the dura mater internal to the anterior clinoid process of the sphenoid bone, where it divides into two large branches, the anterior and middle cerebral. The internal carotid artery has the following relations from its origin to the place where it enters the foramen caroticum : anteriorly it has the external carotid and its branches in contact with it at its origin, also the hypoglossal or lin- gual nerve, and as it passes under the digastric muscle it also slips beneath the following, parts which lie between it and the external carotid, the styloid process, with the muscles attached to it, part of the parotid gland, the glosso- pharyngeal and inferior pharyngeal nerves. Posteriorly it lies on the rectus capitis anti- cus major, having the par vagum and superior laryngeal nerve behind it, and higher up the trunk of the hypo-glossal nerve coming from between it and the internal jugular vein. The internal jugular vein bounds it externally at first, but passes to its posterior side above where it gets to the internal side of the root of the styloid process. Internally the carotid ar- tery lies on the side of the pharynx to which it is more closely applied towards its upper part, lying on the stylo-glossus and the outer surface of the superior constrictor muscles, which with some cellular membrane and a venous plexus separate it from the tonsil, external and poste- rior to which it lies, at the distance of from six to eight lines in the natural state of the parts; but when that gland is enlarged in consequence either of acute inflammation or chronic disease, the distance between it and the artery is dimi- nished so much as to expose the latter to some risk of being wounded in opening abscesses in the tonsil, an occurrence of which the records of experience are not without examples. In this stage of its course the internal carotid seldom gives any branches; occasionally, how- ever, the inferior pharyngeal or the occipital arises from it. Having entered the carotid canal, the artery ascends vertically, then turns forwards and inwards, and passing out of the canal opposite the posterior clinoid process, it takes a second turn upwards, then forwards along the side of the sella turcica, between the layers of the dura mater which include the ca- vernous sinus, between which latter and the bone the artery is situate. At the anterior extremity of the'side of the sella turcica it makes