3 ABDOMEN. In and between tliese several structures ramify the various arteries, veins, lymphatics, and nerves, which constitute the vascular and ner- vous supply to the abdominal parietes. 1. The skin on the anterior and lateral parts of the abdomen is thin and smooth, and in some parts covered with hairs, as along the middle line, especially below the umbilicus and over the pubic region. Along the median line the cutaneous follicles are largely developed, and during pregnancy an increased secretion of pigmentum is said to take place, producing a brownish colour of the skin in these regions. In women who have borne children, the skin becomes wrinkled to a considerable de- gree, and the epidermis exhibits, as Winslow has remarked, a great number of lozenge- shaped spaces disposed in a reticular manner.* In the epigastric region the skin is much more sensitive during life than in the other parts of the abdomen, and with some persons sympathizes with the stomach in a remarkable degree, so that pressure on it even in the healthy state produces a degree of pain or un- easiness in that organ, or even a tendency to nausea. In the umbilical region we observe a depression, the floor of which is more or less elevated in the centre. This depression is de- nominated the navel or umhiUcus, (the dimi- nutive of umbo, a nob or button.) It is produced by the firm adhesion of the si<in to the subjacent structures, its true nature being that of a cicatrix, occupying the site of a former perforation through which the umbilical arteries and veins and the urachus passed in maintaining the circulation between the foetus and placenta. In very fat persons, the depth of the depression is often very much increased by reason of the great thickness of the abdomi- nal parietes, and in some instances its form assumes that of a slit, and sometimes, instead of a depression, there is a greater or Jess pro- minence of the integument. In the lumbar region the skin is thicker and firmer than in die others; and we generally find it in a state of congestion after death, in consequence of the position of the body. 2. The subcutaneous cellular tissue on the anterior surface of the abdomen has obtained especial attention from anatomists, particularly that portion of it which is found in the hypo- gastric regions. It is denominated the superficial J'uscia,-f and is merely an expanse of cellular tissue possessing the same general characters * Winslow's Anatomy, by Douglas, v. ii. p. 160. t The application of the term fascia to the sub- cutaneous cellular investment in various parts of the body has occasioned no small degree of confusion among anatomists. A singular degree of confusion exists in Velpeau's description of this fascia : be observes in one place that the deep layers of the subcutaneous cellular tissue constitute the super- ficial fascia, and in the next page states that " the superficial fascia is nothing else than the cellular tissue condensed, whose lamins strongly applied one against the other, are ultimately reduced to somewhat of the aponeurotic form." I shall adhere to this latter definition, and consider superficial fascia as synonymous with subcutaneous cellular tissue,—Velpeau Anat, Chirurg. vol. ii, p. 4 and 5. as that which is found in all other parts of the body ; it is continued upwards over the thorax, laterally into the region of the back, inferiorly along the thighs, and into the scrotum. It varies in thickness according to the quantity of fat which is deposited in its cells in some in- stances it has been known to possess a thick- ness of three inches. Thin but muscular subjects afford the best examples from which to study the superfical fascia of the abdomen : in such subjects we find it in general of a much denser character than in others, very strong and elastic and easily divisible into lamina;, produced, no doubt, by the pressure which it experiences from the weight of the abdominal viscera, and the constant attrition occasioned by the action of the abdominal muscles. In the iliac region, immediately above Poupart's ligament, the density of this fascia is most conspicuous. Here some have regarded it as a fibro-cellular membrane ; but the opaque bands which give it a fibrous appearance are merely the walls of the membranous cells rendered thicker and denser than they are in other parts. I cannot agree with Beclardf that it presents almost all the characters of an aponeurosis, inasmuch as it differs from an aponeurosis in wanting the shining and regular surface, and in possessing a degree of elasticity which never belongs to aponeurotic expansions. The elasticity of the superficial fascia is remarkable, and is by some compared to the elastic expansion over the abdomen of the larger quadrupeds ;:|: the comparison, however, is inaccurate, inasmuch as they are two distinct tissues, the former being cellular, and the latter the aponeurosis of the oblique muscles, which in some degree partakes of the properties of the yellow elastic fibrous tissue (tissu jaune). Inferiorly the superficial fascia moves freely over Poupart's ligament, and is continued over the thigh (see Groin, Regio>; or the). Along the middle line it is very adherent to the sub- jacent aponeurotic structure (the linea alba) as well as to the skin,—a fact which may be remarked of the subcutaneous cellular tissue in other parts of the body, and which was long ago noticed by Bordeu, when he observed that the cellular tissue is constricted (etran<^lee) in all its median portion, and that its cells (ballons ou pouches) are closed over the axis of the body. When this superficial fascia is dissected off, a very thin layer of cellular membrane, perfectly diaphanous, is found to adhere to the subjacent aponeurotic expansion. This will be found particularly adherent over Poupart's ligament, and is that which is referred to by some ana- tomists (as Manec, Cloquet, &c.,) as a deep process of the superficial fascia which adheres to Poupart's ligament, and so forms a super- ficial septum between the abdomen and thigh. To see this layer the superficial lamina should be raised by commencing the dissection of it * Cloquet says it is, as it were, decomposed by the deposition of fat.—Recherches Anat. sur les Hernies de I'Abdomen, p. 11. t Diet, de jNIedecine, art. abdomen. J Vid, Blandin, Anat. Topog. B 2