CRUSTACEA. 775 The biliary apparatus of the Crustacea is of very large size in the Decapoda. The liver is symmetrical (fig. 417), and consists of two halves generally separate one from another, and the whole organ is made up of an agglo- meration of coecums, which by one of their extremities empty themselves into excretory ducts. These by their union form larger and larger trunks, and the secreted fluid or bile is finally poured by a double channel into the pyloric portion of the stomach. The liver is found to undergo extensive modifications as it is examined in individuals lower and lower in the series; in the Edriophthalmians, finally, we discover nothing except three pairs of bili- ary vessels analogous to those of insects. The liver is not the only secerning organ ■whose product is poured into the intestine. On each side of tiie pyloric portion of the stomach, we observe two blind tubular cavi- ties nfy-row and much elongated in their form, which pour out a whitish fluid (fg.4\6,f, f); and at the point of conjunction of the two por- tions of which the intestine frequently consists, as has been said, there is a third tubular cavity or vessel in all respects similar to these two (Jig. 416, g). These tubuli are all wanting in the Astacus fluviatilis, and in the Astacus ma- rinus the single posterior tubulus is the only one found. Nothing positive is known with regard to the uses of the fluid secreted in these tubuli. To conclude, there are two organs of a green colour situated on either side of the resopha- gus, the structure of which is glandular, and which appear to bear some analogy to the sali- vary glands. B. Of t/ie bluod and circulalion.SNe are altogether without positive information as to the mode in which the nutritious fluid, elabo- rated by the process of digestion, passes from the intestinal canal into the toreent of the cir- culation. Hitherto no chyliferous vessels have been detected, and we are therefore led to believe that it is by imbibition that the trans- ference takes place from the intestine to the bloodvessels in the Crustacea. The blood of the Crustacea is a colourless, or slightly bluish coloured fluid, holding an abundance of circular-shaped globules in sus- pension. It is extremely coagulable. Its che- mical composition has not been investigated. This nutritious fluid is put into motion by a heart, and circulates through a vascular system of great complexness. Willis,* Swainmer- dam,f Cuvier,J Desmarest,§ and several others have given a description of this system; but there are still innumerable points upon which opinions remain different. The following are the conclusions to which M. Audouin and I have come from a careful study as well of the anatomical disposition of the circulatory apparatus of the Crustacea, as of the progress of the blood through its interior.|| The circulation of the blood in these ani- mals is accomplished in a manner very similar to what takes place in the Mollusca. The blood pushed forward by the heart is distri- buted to every part of the body, from whence it is returned into large sinuses situated at no great distance from the base of the branchiEB ; from these sinuses it is sent on to the respi- ratory apparatus which it traverses, and from which it then finds its way to the heart, to recommence the same circle anew. The heart is consequently aortic and single. Fig. 418. /, heart; a, ophthal g, branchiae, inveucu omuyv niu n, branchiae in their natural position Viscera of the Caiicer Pagurus. , , artery; o, abdominal artery; c, stomach; e, skin; branchiae, inverted to show the eft'erent vessels ; 7i, vault of the flancs ; 1 :.: „ , 7 _ , (esti(.]es_ flabelli "* De anima brutorum, caput tertium, p. 16. t Collect, acadcmique, partie etiangere, t. v. t Le9ons d'Anatomie Comparce, t. iv. p. 407, ct Regno Animal, lie ed. t. ii, p. 512, et t. iii. p. 5. § Considerations sur les Crustaces, p. 57. II Rcclicichcs anatomiques ct physiologiquos sur la Circulation dans les Crustaces, Ann. dcs Sc. Nat. t. 11.