CRUSTACEA. 758 Fig. 385. Thorax of the Astacm Fluviatilis, showing the dis- position of the apodemata and the thoracic cells. of the latter. This rule, which has been dis- cussed by M. Geoffioy St. Hilaire under tlie title of la lot de bulancement organique, or law of organic equivalents, is found to apply in the present instance; for the Crustacea in which the cephalic portion of the tegumentary skele- ton is developed in the greatest degree, (viz. the Brachyura) present the abdominal portion ( of the body of very small dimensions; whilst, on the other hand, in the Macroura, or those species in which the abdominal portion of the body arrives at its maximum of develop- ment, and performs a very important office in the business of locomotion, the cephalic por- tion is relatively greatly inferior in size. With regard to its disposition the abdomen is simple enough; the rings of which it con- sists are in general moveable upon one another, and even when they are consolidated, present no apodemata projecting from their interior. It is also deserving of remark that the elementary pieces of the different rings are not very distinct, and sometimes even appear to be partially wanting. Let us now go on to examine the portion of the tegumentary skeleton belonging to the extremities or that portion of the external skeleton of the Crustacea which may be re- garded as an appendage to the more essen- tial covering of the head, thorax, and ab- domen. The Crustacea present this invariable cha- racter, that the whole of the appendages belong exclusively to the inferior arc of their tegu- mentary rin^s, a point in which they resemble the Arachnidans, and differ like these from Insects, in which one or two of the thoracic rings generally present a pair of extremities supported by the superior arcs, as in the An- nelidans, in wliich the dorsal segment of each of the rings almost always carries a pair of extremities fashioned in the same manner as those belonging to the ventral arcs.* We have already said that a pair of appendages ought to be found attached to each ring; but it very frequently happens that many of the pairs are completely checked in their develop- * Vide Annelida, p. 167. ment, or that the forms they assume, in har- mony with the uses they serve, render them liable to be mistaken. It is very dif- ferent in the embryo; here, in fact, as among the simplest forms of the series, the whole of the extremities are at first similar; and it is only in consequence of ulterior develop- ments that each pair finally assumes diver- sities of form and character in relation with the various functions to which they are espe- cially destined. In its most perfect state of development, the extremity in the Crustacean consists of three prmcipal parts; the stem («), which is the most Fig. 386. essential and most constant part, formed of a variable number of articulations ; the palp (b), an appendage which is detached from one of the three first articulations of the stem, but almost always from the first; and the whip (fouetJ (c), which is sent off above and to the outer side of the palp. It but rarely happens, however, that these three organs exist simultaneously; occa- sionally not more than one of them can be demonstrated; and sometimes the whole three are altogether wanting. Fig. 387. First cephalic ring of the Sqtiilla separated from the rest of the head, and bearing one of the ocular peduncles. The first ring presents no appendages except in the very highest Crustaceans, and even then they are .simple in their composition, and tiever exhibit more than the stem, which arises from a more remote check to their development dating from about the commencement of their embryonic evolution ; these are the ocular pe- duncles. The second and third pairs of extremities constitute the antenna. These are wanting in a certain number of the inferior species, and even in those among which they occur, they vary considerably in their structure : they may for instance present one only, or two, or the whole of the three elements of which we have spoken. But as the three first pairs of ap-