799 DEATH. exaltation of one part of the mental constitution at the expense of the others. Excitement of the imagination has, we doubt not, been fre- quently mistaken for general mental vigour. We should place such instances, however, far below those in which there remains sufficient steadiness of the understanding to direct the provisions of a will; though by many observers such a condition of the intellect would be con- sidered a far slighter evidence of the triumphs of mind over matter, than the impassioned expressions to which the dying man sometimes gives utterance, when describing the visions of his phantasy. The delirium of the dying is often of a most interesting character, and resembles dreaming more than any other form of derangement that has fallen under our notice. The ideas are derived less from present perceptions than in insanity, and yet are more suggested by ex- ternal circumstances than in the delirium of fever and phrenitis. Thus the sight of a by- stander often suggests the image of a friend long departed, in which character the mori- bund man addresses him, and talks earnestly of persons, scenes, and events belonging to a former period of his history as if still present. The vivified conceptions are generally derived from subjects which either in his speculative pursuits, or in the business of life, have princi- pally occupied his thoughts. The last words of Dr. Armstrong were addressed to an ima- ginary patient upon whom he was impressing the necessity of attention to the state of the digestive organs. We have heard that a great legal otficer not long deceased, having raised himself for a moment from his couch, said with his wonted dignity, " Gentlemen of the jury, you will find,"—and then fell back on his pillow and expired. The visual conceptions reproduced in some minds often appear to have been derived from poetical reading. We re- member hearing a young man, who had been but little conversant with any but civic scenes, discourse most eloquently a short time before death, of " sylvan glen and bosky dell," pur- ling streams, and happy valleys ; " babbling of green fields," as if his spirit had been already recreating itself in the gardens of Elysium. It not unfrequently happens that the spectra owe their origin to contemplations of future existence; and consequently that the good man's last hours are clieered with beatific visions and communion with heavenly visitors. " Saw ye not even now a blessed troop Invite me to a banquet, whose bright faces Cast thousand beams upon me, like the sun? They promised me eternal happiness. And brought me garlands, Griffith, which I feel I am not worthy yet to bear : I shall assuredly." King Henry VIII. Act iv. Sc. 2. Dreadfully contrasted with such visions are those which haunt the dying fancies of others. The previous habits and conduct of the indi- vidual have sometimes been such as to incline spectators to enquire whether in the mode of his departure from existence he might not already be receiving retribution; just as, in other cases, celestial dreams and colloquies have seemed fitting rewards for blameless lives and religious meditation. It would be pre- sumptuous, however, to hazard much upon the final causes of the various modes of termina- ting the career of life, not only for certain obvious general reasons, but also because we have known both the virtuous and the vicious pass away in states of unconsciousness, to all appearance precisely similar. One of the most curious instances of de- rangement that we have met with occurred in a phthisical patient. It consisted in a morbid association of ideas by mere similarity of ver- bal sound, or in other words a propensity to rhyme. Every person who came to the bed- side was sure to receive a distich in honor of his name; nor could any remark be made in his presence without his seizing one of the words uttered and finding a rhyme for it, in doing which he exhibited great ingenuity. We were unable to ascertain whether he had been addicted when in health to attempts at metre. Recitations of jMetry, appearing to recur from a passive process of memory, with perfect unconsciousness of what is passing around, are frequent occurrences; and the passages selected have often a singular coincidence with events in the life of the moribund rehearser. Sir W. Scott's touching picture of the deatii of Madge Wildfire has had many unfic- titious counterparts. Dementia or imbecility sometimes comes on a short time before death. It is for the most part manifested by an incapacity of concen- trating the ideas upon any one subject, and by an all but total failure of memory. The study of the degree of this condition necessary for invalidating a legal document is of great im- portance to the medical jurist. The mental weakness is in no respect so painfully exhi- bited as in the facility with which the subject of it derives pleasure from puerile amuse- ments. " Phiying with flowers " is a token of approaching dissolution enumerated by a dra- matic author, one whose observation pervaded human nature in all its phases. We remember visiting a lady in the last stage of a uri- nary disorder, during the progress of which she had evinced both strength of mind and re- finement of taste :—we found her arranging with great care, and with demonstrations of delight at her success, a garland of flowers around a chamber utensil. A more humilia- ting spectacle could scarcely be witnessed. We augured that her decease was near at hand, and she died on the following day. In the delirium under consideration, repro- ductions of visual sensations bear a considem- ble part; but in some cases the consciousness is exclusively occupied by them;—they are mere ocular spectra. Thus with a vacant coun- tenance, half-shut eyes, and gaping mouth, and in a state of insensibility which no out- ward impression can rouse, the victim of ty- phus is seen catching at something in the air. By the adjustment of the finger and thumb, it is evident that the imaginary objects are often minute; and it is not unlikely that they