AVES. 2C9 which have three . toes, all turned for- ward. The Coursers with a (It-pressed beak have the longest and strong- est legs, and run with remarkable velocity ; these include The Ostrich (Stru- thio Cumelus) which has only two toes. (Fig. 122.) The Rhea (Rhea Ame- ricana.) The Cassowary (Cas- suariiis galeattts.) The Emeu (Dromains ater.) J Of these four giants of the class the first inhabits the continent of Africa, the second South America, the third Java, and the fourth Australia. The Coursers, with a compressed beak, are represented by a single and now extinct genus, the Dodo, (Didus ineptus. Linn.) This bird is known from a description given by one of the early Dutch navigators, and preserved in Clusius (Eioticorum libri de- cern descr. 1605, pp. 99 and 100) ; by an oil- painting of the same period, copied by Ed- wards (Gleanings, plate 294); from a de- scription and figure in Herbert's Some Years Travels in Africa, Asia, ^c. 1677 ; and from the Historia Naturalis et Medico, of Jacob Bontius, 1658. A foot of the Dodo is preserved in the British Museum, and a head in the Ashmolean col- lection at Oxford. Tlie beak resembles that of the Penguin or Albatross rather than that of a Vulture, to which it has been compared. The foot would resemble that of the Apteno- dytes, if it were webbed, which however it is not nor has been. It is very similar to, but proportionally stronger than, the foot of the Curassow. We have examined carefully the foot in the British Museum, and also the head of the Dodo at the Ashmolean Museum, and derived a conviction that they are the remains of a bird sui generis. A third form of beak among the Brevipennes or Cursores is presented by the Apteryx Aus- tralis ; a bird inhabiting and apparently pecu- liar to the island of New Zealand. The man- dibles are elongated and slender, the upper one is marked on either side by a longitudinal furrow. The toes are, as in the Dodo, four in number; but the fourth, or posterior one, is smaller, being reduced almost to a spur, and the three anterior ones have the lateral skin, notched as in the Phaleropes. The wings are shorter than in any other known bird, are quite concealed by the feathers, and terminate in a sharp spine or claw. The feathers are narrow like those of the Cassowary. OrdoVI. GRALLATORES. Legs with the tibia, and especially the me- tatarsus very long, stretched out behind in flight; the distal end of the tibia unfeathered; toes elongated, straight. Wings long. Bodi/ slender; neck and beak long. Fig. 123. Head and leg of the Ibis. The Waders,—or Gralla, as they were termed by Linna;us from being raised on their long legs, as on stilts,—frequent for the most part the banks of lakes and rivers, marshes, and the shores of estuaries, and derive their food, some exclusively from the waters, feeding on small fishes, aquatic mollusks, worms, small reptiles, and insects, as well as their spawn, while others are of more terrestrial habits and food. Of the latter kind are the Gruida, or Stork tribe, which are chiefly vegetable feeders, and resemble the land birds in their bill and feet; the former being more obtuse than in the typical waders, and the latter shorter. Then follow the Ardeidie, or Heron tribe; the Scolu- pacida. Snipe, Woodcock ; the RulUda, Rail, Coot; and the Cliarudriada, Plover, Sander- ling, &c. The Waders are remarkable for their power of preserving a motionless position upon one leg for a considerable length of time ; the mechanism by which this is effected will be afterwards described. During flight they stretch out their long legs behind to counter- balance their long neck, and the tail is always extremely short, its function as a rudder being transferred to the legs. They mostly make or choose their nests on the ground, and the young are enabled to run about as soon as hatched, excepting in those Waders which live in pairs. OrdoVII. NATATORES. Body closely covered with feathers, and coated with a thick down next the skin. Eegs short, placed behind the point of equilibrium. Toes united by a membrane or web, which is sometimes divided. The Swimmers, or Palmipedes, are of all the orders of birds the most easily recogniza- ble by the structure and position of their oar- like feet: this peculi- arity which occasionsan awkward gait on land, is extremely favourable to those birds ' whose business is in the great waters.' Their body is boat-shaped, and ge- nerally elongated, as is Fovt of the Pel