4 ABDOMEN. Practical Medicine. Anat. Chirurg. t. ii. tion of the muscles, insomuch that in some in- dividuals the concavity is habitually very con- siderable, as in those who carry burdens on the head or in front of the body, in pregnant wo- men, &c. (Seefg. 2.) The limit of this wall on each side is indicated by a groove or fissure which passes obliquely upwards and outwards towards the ribs, and corresponds to the outer margin of each relief, or that of the lumbar muscles; these lines also indicate the posterior limits of the lateral walls of the abdomen, or the rianks. Anteriorly the flank of each side is continuous with the anterior wall of the abdo- men ; above it is limited by the margin of the thorax, and below by the margin or crest of the ilium. It is concave on its surface from above downwards, (except in cases of great embon- point, where the concavity is obliterated,) and convex from before backwards. Gerdy remarks that in subjects in which the muscles have a considerable development, a relief is formed just above the crista ilii by the broad muscles of the abdomen at their insertion into this osseous border. Upon antique statues this relief is in general made too prominent. The anterior or proper abdominal region has been subdivided into smaller compartments, with a view to facilitating descriptions, patho- logical or otherwise. This subdivision is com- I>letely arbitrary, and therefore some difl'erences will be found among the various anatomical authors as to the precise limits of each region. That which is here subjoined, however, appears to be pretty generally agreed upon in this country. Lines connecting particular points drawn upon the surface, mark out these subdi- visions, and if planes be supposed to be carried from these lines horizontally backwards to the posterior wall, the cavity of the abdomen will thus be divided into segments, each of which has its particular portion of the abdominal viscera. It is an instructive exercise for the student to practise himself in examining the particular viscera which correspond to particu- lar regions. We are thus enabled, as lilandin has remarked,* to resolve the problem, " a point of the surface of the abdomen being wounded deeply in a given direction, to de- termine what organs have been injured; and reciprocally, an organ having been wounded in a particular part of the abdominal cavity by a sharp instrument, which entered in a given direction, to determine what part of the abdominal walls must necessarily have been injured."f The limits of these several regions or com- partments may be thus indicated : J let a line be drawn horizontally from the extremity of the last rib on one side to the same point on the other, and let another line parallel to the pre- ceding be drawn between the two anterior superior spinous processes of the ilium; the * Anatomie Topographique, p. 423. t The division of the surface of the abdomen into regions is as old as Aristotle. I See an engraving exhibiting these subdivisions, in the article ABDOMEN of the CYCLOPAEDIA OF abdominal surface is thus divided into three great regions, each of which is subdivided into three by means of a vertical line let fall on each side from the anterior extremity of the seventh or eighth rib to a point a little external to the spine of the pubis. Nine regions are thus marked out, the relations and boundaries of which may be described as follows. The superior region, or that above the first horizontal line, is the Epigastrium, which name it derives from its close relation to the stomach : (sTTi,upon, over; yctcrrn^, the stomach.) The epi- gastrium is bounded superiorly and laterally by the margin of the thorax, and its inferior limit is indicated by the transverse line. The verti- cal lines subdivide it into two lateral regions, each of which is bounded immediately above by the lower margin of the thorax, beneath which these regions extend in a direction up- wards and backwards: they are hence called hypochondria {vtto, under, ^on^^ot;, cartilage). Between the hypochondria, is the proper epigastric region, which at its superior part and just below the xiphoid cartilage presents the depression already alluded to under the name of scrobiculus cordis (scrobiculus, the diminutive of scrubs, a depression). Immediately below the epigastrium, and separated from it by the superior horizontal line, is the umbilical region, which has its name from the presence of the umbilicus in it. This region is limited above and below by the two horizontal lines, and is subdivided by the intersection of the two vertical lines into three regions : the lateral ones are the lumbar regions, so called from their correspondence with those portions of the posterior abdominal wall which bear the same name ; and the middle one is the proper umbilical region. Between the inferior horizontal line and the margin of the pelvis, is the hypogastrium, {vrro, beneath,ya(jT)9j, the stomach). This region is li- mited below in the centre by the pubis, and on each side it communicates with the upper part of the thigh. It is subdivided into the iliac regions on each side, and the proper hypo- gastric or pubic region in the centre. The two former constitute the upper or abdominal portion of the great region of the groin, which is completed inferiorly by the upper part of the anterior surface of the thigh. These regions afford peculiar interest to the surgical ana- tomist, in consequence of the occurrence in them of the most common forms of hernia.* (See Groin, Region of the.) The structures which enter into the com- position of the abdominal parietes, or their elements, (as the term has been lately applied,) are—1. the skin : 2. the subcutaneous tissue or superficial fascia: 3. muscles and their aponeurotic expansions: 4. a particular fibrous expansion, or fascia : 5. a thin and filamen- tous cellular tissue, which separates the fascia just named from the sixth element: 6. the peri- toneum, which, however, is not to be found in the composition of all the walls of the abdomen. * Velpeau applies the term zone to the primary regions included between the horizontal lines.—