ANIMAL. 132 absorption alone. The mouth is a cavity of extremely varied character and construction adapted universally to the circumstances in which animals exist. Nothing analogous to a mouth is met with in any vegetable. The food having been selected and seized is next transferred to the cavity in which it un- dergoes an elaboration that fits it to be received into the proper system of the animal and con- verted into its own substance. We do not find anything like the pouch denominated a stomach in any member of the vegetable knig- dom. The matter fitted for its nourishment, absorbed by the root, is transmitted to the stem, and from thence makes its way into the leaves of the vegetable. It does not pass un- changed, however, from the earth into the root, or at least it has advanced but a very short way on its course to the leaves, before it is found to have undergone certain changes, which are also known to be greater in amount as it is examined at a greater height or distance from the root. Although growing from the same soil too, the sap of vegetables, i. e. the fluid which is passing upwards through the woody fibres, is found to be universally different. Whether the peculiar qualities thus acquired by the simple moisture holding certain salts, &c. in solution, which is the food all vege- tables derive through their roots, be the effect of vital elaboration within the cells of the woody fibre, or result from an admixture of the cambium or fluid which has already undergone assimilation in the leaves, is still uncertain. We are inclined to believe that a process ana- logous to digestion does actually take place within the woody conduits of the sap of vege- tables;—why should it not, or why should any new properties acquired by matters sub- jected to the influence of the peculiar laws of vitality be held as resulting from mere ad- mixture ? The very same thing, in fact, happens among the lowest tribes of animals which takes place in all vegetables : the substances fitted for their nourishment penetrate or are absorbed into their systems, and are there assimilated without the intermedium of any special apparatus. We mount but a very short way in the scale of the animal creation, however, before we meet with a peculiar pouch, destined for the reception of the aliment, and accomplishment of the first steps in the processes by which, in the more perfect animals, it is finally assimi- lated. This pouch is the stomach, and with the rest of the digestive apparatus with which it is connected, is in intimate and uniform re- lationship with the kind of food upon which animals are led by their instincts to live. All the accessaries of the assimilating cavity or stomach v,'hich we find in animals, from the organs of sense that guide them in their choice of aliment, to the Hps that seize it, the teeth or jaws that bruise it or destroy its vitality, the muscular actions by which it is swallowed, and the chemico-vital processes by which it is dissolved, and the purely vital-sen- sibilities by which such parts as are proper for riourishment are retained, ;ind .•?ucb as are im- proper for this purpose are expelled,—all of these are wanting among vegetables. There are yet other processes which form an essential item in the acts by which organized beings universally continue their existence, which it is necessary we should include in this summary of the common, particular, and dis- tinguishing attributes of vegetables and ani- mals. One of the most important of these is Respiration.—The leaves in the more per- fect vegetables are the instruments of respi- ration; their place is supplied by the general surface in those plants that are aphyllous. Vege- tables that live in air act immediately by means of their respiratory organs upon the ambient medium ; those that live in water, upon the air held in solution by the fluid around them. Vegetables are well known to exhale abun- dantly from the surface of their leaves, or stems, in case they have no leaves. The mat- ter exhaled is principally water. They have also the farther property of decomposing one of the elements of atmospheric air, namely, carbonic acid gas. In the sunshine the leaves of vegetables fix the carbon which enters into the composition of this gas, and set the oxy- gen at liberty; in the dark, however, a very different process goes forward ; they then actually absorb oxygen and exhale carbonic acid gas; the balance, however, in the aggre- gate is not equal between these opposite pro- cesses, a much larger quantity of carbon being fixed by the decomposition of carbonic acid gas and oxygen set at liberty, than there is of oxygen absorbed and carbonic acid gas set free. These acts are essential to the life and health of vegetables ; their end and object appear to be the preparation of their proper nutritive fluids or cambium : the sap which reached the leaves, colourless, not coagulable, without glo- bules, mere water holding carbonic acid, acetic acid, a muco-saccharine matter, and various salts in solution, is in them converted into a greenish fluid, partly coagulable, and full of globules, which special vessels then distribute for the growth and maintenance of the different parts. The respiratory act is necessary, and goes on without the aid or concurrence of the indi- vidual among vegetables. Animals are no less dependent than vege- tables on communication with the air of the atmosphere, either immediately or mediately, for a continuance of their existence, or the manifestation of those acts whose sum con- stitutes their lives. In the very lowest tribes the communication between them and the air of the atmosphere takes place over the surface of the body generally, without the intermede of any particular organ or organs for the pur- pose. The fluids absorbed into their bodies are brought into contact with the atmospheric air in those points where they approach the external surface, and there appear to undergo the changes necessary to fit them for being converted into the substance of the animals themselves. Simple as this process may ap-