BLADDER, ABNORMAL ANATOMY. 303 extroversion of the bladder, wliich sliould be mentioned in tliis place. The ureters, of course, open immediately upon the surface of the body ; the urethra no longer serves for the emission of urine, and is often incomplete. Commonly in woman it opens above the cli- toris, in man above the penis. Occasionally the testicles do not descend. Meckel has remarked that there is commonly a separation of tlie two lateral moieties of the external genital organs, like that of the abdominal muscles and the pubis. It lias been remarked by Duncan (loc. cit.) that this infirmity more commonly happens to the male than the female. Meckel doubts this proposition, and adds many cases to those cited by Duncan, in which the disease afl'ected the female. Isidore GeoiTroy St. Ililaire, who has carefully examined the recorded cases, which are now very numerous, supports the conclusion of Duncan : he says that of tliese one-fourth appertain to females, nearly two-thirds to males, and in the re- mainder the sex was undetermined. Ex- trophy of the bladder is a very serious af- fliction, because of the incontinence of urine wliich is its inevitable consequence, and the deformity of the genital organs by which it is constantly accompanied, and which, in man especially, very commonly occasions impo- tence. It constitutes a more serious disease in the male than in the female, for in the latter the external genital organs, except the want of projection of the pubic eminence, commonly suffer only slight modifications of form : the ovaries, the uterus, and their appendages may not even present any anomalies.*' Pcrsislunce of the uruchm.—The last of the congenital malformations to which I shall allude is the persistance of the urachus some- times even to adult age. For a considerable time much doubt was expressed whether the urachus was ever a canal, pervious from the bladder to the umbilicus; and it was not gene- rally admitted until the fact had been re- peatedly demonstrated by Ilaller and his pupil Noreen. In January, 1787, Boyer exhibited a bladder taken from a man aged thirty-six, in which the urachus formed a canal an inch and a half long, and containing twelve urinary calculi, each of the size of a millet-seed ; and it was demonstrated that this canal was not a vesical sac or a prolongation of the mucous membrane. But these cases of persistance of the cavity of the urachus in adult or even in infant life are unquestionably extremely rare ; * For more minute details of this affection the reader may consult Blasius, part iv. obs. 6. Stal- part Vanderwiel, vol. ii. p. 56. Bartholin, cent, ii. hist. 65, the Kdinburgh Essays, vol. iii. p. 257, the Journal Encyclopedique, August, 1756, the Journal de Medecine of Paris, t. v. p. 108, et t. xxvii. p. 26, the Memoirs of the Academy of Sci- ences of Paris, 1761, where we find an observaiion of Lemcry made in 1741, and three facts observed by Tenon, also the second volume of Medical Commentaries by a Society of medical men at Edinburgh, p. 437, and the Memoirs of Duncan (Edinb. Med. and Surg. Journ. 1805), and Vclpcau (Mem de I'.icad. Royale do Med. torn, iii.) and it is certain that a protrusion of the mu- cous tunic in the form of a canal at tliis point has been mistaken for the canal of the urachus; it is even probable that generally where the urine is prevented from escaping by the urethra, and wlieie it escapes by the umbi- licus, it results from the rupture of the species of hernia formed near the situation of the urachus by the mucous tunic of the bladder, and not from the dilatation of this membranous cord. When this canal remains pervious only in a part of its extent, the anomaly is not indicated externally. When its cavity is preserved even from the bladder to the umbilicus, nothing marks its existence at the exterior if the urinary passages are unobstructed; in the opposite condition a very remarkable physiological ano- maly accompanies it, and reveals the presence of the anatomical anomaly; it is the total or partial excretion of urine by the umbilicus, either constantly and from the moment of birth, which is the case when a vice of confor- mation or a disease prevents the urine from passing by its natural channel ;* or tempo- rarily, when the course of the urine, which was at first by the urethra, comes to be inter- rupted by any cause. Sigismund Kunigf relates the case of a woman in whom the urine, usually excreted by the urethra, passed by the umbilicus during some days in consequence of a severe labour; but this example and others which might be mentioned do not appear to possess the authen- ticity which is required to establish that this infirmity may be acquired. It is probable that many of these cases were simply a hernia of the mucous membrane of the bladder, such as occurred in the case detailed by Portal.J ACQUIRED CHANGES. Succidi or a/sta.—A sacculated or encysted condition of the bladder is never a congenital vice of conformation of that organ, but an eH'ect of disease. Sacculi may be produced by any thing which can oppose itself to the excretion of urine, or which may enfeeble the muscular tunic of the organ. In this way the urine becomes collected in the bladder, the parietes are distended, the internal tunic is forcibly applied upon the muscular coat, and if at any point this tunic be weakened, less resistance is offered, a separation between some of its fasciculi takes place to a sufficient dis- tance to admit of the mucous membrane pass- ing between them, and in this way sacculi may be formed. This, however, is not the only way by which this state may be produced ; in some bladders the muscular tunic is so developed, probably by irritation, that its fasciculi are grouped and a columnar aspect is produced, not very unlike to the appearance of the interior of the ven- tricles of the heart. * Littre, Mem. de I'Acad. des Sciences, 1701, p. 23. Sabatier, Traite d'Anat. t. ii. p. 402, et t. iii. p. 498.—Cabiol, Alphabet Anat. obs. 20. This case occurred at Ueaucaire in 1550. t Pliil. Trans, v. 16. i Mem. de I'Acad. des Sciences, 1769.