DEATH. 808 tlmt it occasioned " refoulement vers la tfete de la portion fluide du sang qui est conlenu dans I'oreillette droite, et par suite, repletion, tumefaction des veines du cou, de la face, de I'encepliale, suintement, exsudation sereuse ou sanguinolente par les porosites, les extre- mites des reseaux capiliaires; quelquefois aussi, par suite de ce reflux dans les reseaux capiliaires, resserrement de la pupille, reple- tion, distension, saillie des yeux, qui etaient d' al)ord ternes et relaches, &c. &c."* M. Villermef has described an appearance of the hand which he considers characteristic of death. He says that when dissolution has taken place thfe fingers are brought together and slightly bent, but that the thumb is co- vered by them, being always found in the hollow of the hand directed towards the root of the little finger. The phalanges of the thumb are extended upon one another, but the first is flexed upon the metacarpal Isone. Villerme states that he had often noticed this appeai-ance in dead bodies on fields of battle and in hospitals, but that he had never at- tached any importance to it as a sign of death, till his attention was directed to its value by M. Breschet. We have often confirmed the truth of Villeime's description by our own observations, particularly in hospital cases, before the bodies have been subjected to the straigtiteniiig processes of the attendants upon the dead. ^Vhen the appearance has been wanting, we have had reason to suspect that it had been removed by force. The last sign to be spoken of is the altered colour of the surface, j)resenting lividities of various extent. They may occur in spots or in circumscribed patches, but more frequently they take the form of an irregular sufl'usioii of a pale violet, or a dull reddish hue. They always occupy the depending parts, and are most intense where the skin hangs loose, as in the scrotum, the penis, and the labia. They have also a direct ratio with the suddenness of the death, the quantity of blood in the system, and its tendency to continue fluid. Their presence indicates that gravitation has either subdued the capillary forces, or has come into play after the cessation of the latter. But they may occur during life. We have often noticed that the livor of the skin in bronchitic affections is more intense in the back and the sicjes, and is even confined to these parts. There can be no doubt that congestions in the parenchyma of the lungs are often dependent upon position. The questions that arise out of these appearances have more to do with the cause of death than with the reality of this occurrence. When circumscribed, they may be confounded with ecchymoses resulting from violence. To enter upon the discrimination of these conditions would engage us in a dis- cussion far too lengthened for this article, which has already exceeded its limits; we * Considerations sur I'Ouverture des Cadavres, p. 88. t Ann. d'Hyg. t, iv. p. 420. must content ourselves with referring to me- dico legal treatises and to an extremely valu- able paper by Dr. Christison in the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal.* We shall conclude with a brief abstract of M. Deveigie's observations upon the know- ledge whicli we may collect from the state of the body respecting the time which has elapsed since deatli. We may suspect that the body has been dead from two to twenty hours if there be flexibility, elasticity, heat, and contractility ; from leu hours to three days, if there be rigi- dity of the joints, pitting of the soft parts, the natural colour of the skin, loss of animal heat, and no contraction under electric stimu- lus ; from three to eight days, if there be flexibility (after rigidity) and no contractility ; from five to twelve days, if the soft parts are pufl^ed, elastic, and shining. After the twelfth day there is usually a separation of the epi- dermis, as well as a green tint of the ab- dominal integuments.t But no certainty must be attached to these statements; they are merely approximative. The modifying in- fluence of external media upon putrefaction is all but unbounded. In summer as much alteration may take place in five or six hours, as in eight or even fifteen days of winter. BmuOGRSPHY.—Hippocrates, Pranotionum Li- ber, sect. i. Lord Bacon, Historia vitae et mortis. Lancisi, De subetaneis moitibus, 4to. Rom. 1707. Window, Dissertatio an mortis incerta sint indicia. 4co. Paris. 1740. Bruhier, Dissertation surl'incer- titiide des signes de la mort. 12mo. Paris, 1742. Louis, Lettres sur la certitude des signcs de la mort. 12mo. Paris, 1752. Sacht, Oratio qua senile fatum inevitabile necessitate ex humani corp. mechanis- mo sequi demonstratur. 4lo. Ultraj. 1729. Van Genus, De morte corporea et cansis moriendi. 4to. Lvgd. Batav. 1761. (Recus in Sandif. Thes. vol. iii.) Lange, Facies Hippocratica levi penicillo adumbrata. 8vo. Jenae, 1784. Plomquet, Resp. Schmid. De unira vfra causa mortis proxima. 4to. Tubing, 1786. C. Himly, Commentatio mor- tis, Iiistoriam, causas, et signa sistens. 4to. G'ut- ting. 1794. Aitschel, Thanatologia, sive in mortis na'turam, causas, genera /ac species, et diagnosin disq. 8vo. G'otting. 1795. Ontyd, De morte et varia morcndi ratione. 8vo. Lngd. Bat. 1797, Bichat, Rjclierchessurlavieet la mort. 8vo. Paris, an. viii. Ferriar, Medical histories and reflections. C«me, on apparent death, 2ded. 8vo. Land. K\5. Chaussier, Table des phenomenes cadaveriques. Adelon, Diet, de Med. art. 3Iort. Beatty, Cyclo- pa;dia of Pract. Med. art. Persons found dead. Demrgie, Diet, de Med. et Chir. Prat. art. Mort. R. B. Todd, Cyclop, of Pract. Med. art. Pseudo- morbid appearances. W. Philip on the nature of sleep and death. M. Julia de Fontenelle, Recher- ches medico-legales sur I'incertilude des signes de la mort, &c. 1834. The systematic works of Mahon, Foderc, Paris, Smith, Orfila, Devergic, and Taylor, upon forensic medicine ; and a chaji- ter on the causes of sudden death in Dr. .Alison's Outlines of Physiology and Pathology. (J. A. Sijmonds.) " Vol. xxxi. p. 248. See also an able article upon Pseudo-morbid Appearances by Dr. R. B.Todd in the Cyclopxdia of Practical Medicine. t Op. cit.