583 CETACEA. spinal chord («, fi^. 272) gently expanding into the medulla oblongata, on the anterior surface of which the corpora pyramidalia {b, Jig. 272) are seen well defined and prominent. At the point where they begm to rise above the surface of the medulla, there is a manifest decussation of their internal fibres; they pro- ceed through the pons Varoli (c), and are contmued into the crura cerebri. The corpora oUvaria are situated near the pyi-amidalia; they do not, however, project atum, and is covered by the usual external layer of similar material. Between the columns which extend from the cerebellum to the bige- minal bodies, the medullary lamella called valvula Vieussenii is situated. The pons or commissure of the cerebellum (c, fig. 272) is of large size, corresponding to the hemispheres of the part which it seems to associate in action. The cerebrum is extended backwards over the cerebellum, but the posterior parts of the hemispheres diverge from one another so as to from the surface as in the human brain, but expose a part of the cerebellum. The most are distinguishable by the internal grey sub stance (corpus dentatum oliva). Their medul- lary fibres proceed dirough the pons and enter the bigeminal bodies, in which they converge and decussate each other. The transverse medullary fibres, which are seen in most Mammalia extending across the under surface of the medulla oblongata imme- diately behind the pons, and which Treviranus has called the trapezium, are wanting in the brain of the Dolphin, as in that of the Orang Utan and the Human subject The two posterior columns of the spinal chord are continued (according to Tiedemann) as the corpora restiformiu to the cerebellum. Between these is situated the fourth ventricle, from the floor of which the acoustic nerves take their origin. The very large size of the cerebellum in proportion to the spinal chord and cerebrum, which Hunter noticed in the Piked Whale, is equally remarkable in the Dolphin. The cere- bellum is deeply divided into lobes, of which six may be distinguished on the upper surface of each hemisphere. Of these, two small lobes correspond to the posterior superior lobes of the human cerebellum. On the under surface we remark th&posterior inferior lobes (e), the anterior inferior lobes (fj, one lobe corresponding to the amygdaloid lobe of Reil (g), and the Jioccus (h). Each lobe is subdivided by deep fissures into smaller lobes, and these again by shallow anfractu- osities into lamellae. The middle or vermiform portion of the cere- bellum (a, ^g. 273) is not sym- metrical, but inclined, like the cra- nium itself, to the right side. The internal medullary substance of the cerebellum resulting from the di- vergent fibres of the eras, corpus restiforme, and processus ad testes, and the superadded commissural fibres, has a well-marked internal grey substance or corpus fimbri- probably not calculated to smell water. It becomes difficult therefore to account for the manner in which such animals smell the water ; and why the others should not have had such an organ, which scoms to be peculiar to the large and small Whale- bone Whales (Balcena mysticetus and Balmrwptera rostrata); the organ, in those which have it, is ex- tremely small, when compared with that of other animals, as well as the nerve, which is to receive the impression."—Phil. Trans, pp. 428, 430. striking feature of the cerebrum is its great breadth, which exceeds its length, a disposition of this organ peculiar among Mammalia to the Cetaceous order. Each hemisphere is seen at its inferior surface to be divided by the Jissura magna (/c, Jijj^. 272) into an anterior {[) and middle lobe {ni), which latter is con- tinued above the cerebellum into the posterior lobe. The whole external surface of the he- mispheres is divided by deep anfractuosities into convolutions, which are proportionally more numerous and narrower even than in the human brain. This structure seems common to all the Cetacea; besides the observations of Tiedemann and Cuvier in the common Dol- phin, the numerous convolutions have been remarked by Tyson in the brain of the Por- pesse, and by Scoresby in that of the Mysticete Whale. The crura cerebri {i,Jig. 272) are of large size; the eminentiae mammillares (p) are as usual situated between them, and anterior to these are the infundibulum and pituitary gland (o). The two hemispheres in the Dolphin's brain described by Tiedemann, measured each two inches and eleven and a half lines in length, and were united by a corpus callosum {b,Jig. 273,) of one inch and three lines in length. The chief peculiai-ity of this part is its position, which is not horizontal, but inclined down- wards and forwards. The bigeminal bodies are of considerable size ; the anterior ones are rounded and lie closer together than the pos- terior. These have an oval form, and are separated by a depression which receives the