534 CEPHA.LOPODA. upper part of an oval gizzard {m, Jig. 219) situated at the bottom of the pallial sac. Close to where this tube enters, the intestine 219) is continued from the gizzard, and after a course of a few lines communicates with a small round laminated pouch or ap- pendage (p, fg. 219) analogous to the spiral caecum of the Cuttlefish, into which the biliary secretion is poured: from thence the intestine is continued, twice bent upon itself, but with- out varying materially in its dimensions, to its termination {o, Jig. 219). In this course it first ascends for about an inch and a half, then makes a sudden bend down to the bottom of the sac, and returns as suddenly upon itself, passing close to the pericardium, and terminat- ing between the roots of the branchiae. The alimentary canal is every where con- nected to the parietes of the abdomen by numerous filaments ; the only trace of a me- sentery exists between the two last portions of the intestine, which are connected together by membranes including the ramifications of an artery and vein.* The longitudinal rugae, into which the lining membrane of the oesophagus is thrown, disappear at its entrance mto the crop. The muscular coat of the crop con- sists of an exterior layer of close-set cn cu- lar fibres and an inner layer of more scattered longitudinal ones. The hning membrane is thin but tough, with a smooth surface : when the cavity is empty, it is probably thrown into longitudinal folds by the action of the circular fibres. In the canal which leads to the gizzard, the lining membrane puts on a villous appearance and is disposed in distinct close-set longitudinal ruga. The gizzard is girt by two broad radiate muscles, of the thickness of two lines, arising from opposite tendons : it is lined by a thick cuticular membrane, delicately furrowed and adapted to numerous fine ridges which tra- verse longitudinally the whole interior of the cavity. This, as is commonly found in gizzards, was detached from part of the parietes and adhered very slightly to the remainder. The pyloric orifice is close to the cardiac, and is guarded by a valve, to prevent a too ready egress of matter from the gizzard.* The globular cavity (p, Jig. 219) which communicates with the intestine at a little dis- tance from the pylorus, is occupied with broad parallel laminse, which are puckered trans- versely, so as to increase their surface for vas- cular ramifications; their texture under the lens is follicular and evidently fitted to secrete. The bile enters this cavity at the extremity furthest from the intestine by a duct large enough to admit a common probe. The two laminae on each side the entrance of the duct increase in breadth as they approach the in- testine, and are continued in a curved form Fig. 220. Alimentary Canal of the Poulp * fn the specimen of the Nautilus from which the preceding account is derived, the whole alimen- tary canal was filled with fragments of some species of crab, among which portions of branchiae, claws, and palpi, were distinctly recognizable. The crop in particular was tensely filled with these substances, and the capability of propelling such rude and angular particles through a narrow canal in the gizzard, without injury to the thin tunics of the preparatory cavity, is a remarkable example of the superior powers of living over dead matter. • The contents of this part of the alimentary canal were in smaller pieces than in the crop, but of the same nature ; the fragments of shell were comminuted apparently by mutual attrition, as there were no particles of sand or pebbles present. t From Ferussac's Monograph on the Cephalopodcs Acetabuliferes,