CIRRIIOPODA. 692 the shell; which process is, at times, so much elongated as to admit of the eggs hanging out in groups from tlie brachial aperture, beyond the extremities of the arms. Burmeister has observed that, after the escape of the embryo, the shells remain connected with the parent, forming a loose net-work. This author seems to regard these groups of eggs within the man- tle, and the tissue in which they are imbedded, as constituting the true ovary. In each of the individuals of Anatifa striata which came under his observation, he computed that there were about 4000 eggs in the ovary. Mr. Thompson calls these groups of ova conceptucles; and says that " each has a separate attachment at the sides of the animal to the septum, which divides the cavity occupied by the animal from that of the pedicle.'"" The retention of their ova, grouped in separate packets on the surface of their bodies, after their expulsion from the ovary, constitutes another point of resemblance between the Cirripeds and Crustaceous animals. With regard to the anterior canal within the ovary, little has yet been determined. We have particularly examined it in Otion, and find that, like its fellow of the dorsal aspect, it leaves the ovary at its inferior edge, whence it opens into a small cavity situated between the intervalvular ligament and the lining membrane of the visceral cavity. We have not succeeded in discovering any orifice in the walls of this cavity, although, from the results of some of our experiments we think it probable that there exists a small one just above the brachial slit. If so, is it not likely that this is the passage in- tended for conveying the fecundating liquor from the orifice of the tubular process connected with the male organs to the ovary ? When the body is exserted through the brachial slit, the point of the process can easily be brought into contact with the outer surface of the cavity above described. The development of the egg and the young of the Cirripeds has recently become an object of interesting inquiry in consequence of the novel results announced by Mr. J. V. Thomp- son in his " Zoological Researches," (1830, 4th Memoir.) This gentleman has published an account of observations made on what he believed to be the young of Balanids, from which he concludes that, on their first exclusion from the egg, they closely resemble some of the branchiopodous Crustacea,—that they pos- sess the power of free locomotion through the water by means of setiferous arms projecting from within a bivalve shell,—and that they have very obvious pedunculated eyes. Minute animals, bearing these characters, and having some resemblance to species of the genus Cypris, were placed by Mr. Thompson in a glassful of sea-water. Soon after, on looking for them, he could not find them in the water, but he found in their room several very young balanids, which, from the appearance they pre- sented, he concluded to be really the same animals that he had originally placed in the water, changed by metamorphosis. Mr.Thomp- » Phil. Trans. 1835, 356. son has not seen the change actually going on, but he has satisfied himself that what he re- gards as the free-moving embryo fixes itself by a spot on its dorsal aspect between the two shells, which spot can be seen during its free state. When fixed, the base of adherence ap- pears to be broad like that of an Actinia : from this it rises in a conical form, truncated. The fiat sides of this cone are coated with six shelly plates, so arranged as to leave a large space in the middle uncovered. This space is closed by the old shells of the embryo state, which are made to move up and down as the opercule does in the adult animal, admitting of the egress and ingress of the arms at the animal's pleasure. Through this shell two large black spots like eyes can be distinguished. Mr. Thompson found in the young of the Balanids, six pairs of arms, cleft; each arm with two ar- ticulations. The first casting of the shell, after the animal has fixed itself, is followed by an increase in the number of articulations in each arm ; and this number is further added to at every succeeding shell-casting. Even the old full-grown animals, according to Mr. Thomp- son, cast their shells. Very recently Mr. Thompson has made a still more satisfactory series of observations on the development of some of the Lepads, of the genera Cineras, Otion, and Lepas. These he obtained from the bottoms of vessels in the harbour of Cork. They hatched eggs in large numbers, and afforded him the means of ascer- taining, entirely to his own satisfaction, that, at its first exclusion from the egg, the Lepad, like the Balanid, is a natatory crab. He found a considerable difference between the larva of the two classes. The newly-discovered one of the Lepads he describes as " a tailed monocu- lus, with three pairs of members, the most an- terior of which are simple, the others bifid, having its back covered by an ample shield, terminating anteriorly in two extended horns, and posteriorly in a simple elongated spinous process." The general appearance of this larva is not unlike that of the Argulus armiger of La- treille.* Very recently Messrs. Audouin,t Wagner,| and Burmeister,§ have corroborated the state- ments and supported the views of Mr. Thomp- son. Professor Burmeister has detailed the results of his observations with great minute- ness. It appears that they were made chiefly on individuals of Anatifa striata, procured in the North Atlantic Ocean, and preserved in spirits ; partly also on Lepas anserifera. (Linn.) The results of these observations have led Pro- fessor B. to divide the development of the Cir- ripeds into five stages or periods. first of these is the state of egg; the second is that of * Phil. Trans. 1835, pt. ii. 355. " Discovery of the Metamorphosis in the second type of the Cirri- peds," &c. + Ann. des Sc. Nat. n. s. iii. 31. X Miiller's Archiv, No. 5, 1834, and Beitrage zur vcrgleich. phys. des Blutes. Leipzig, 1833. $ Beitr^ine zur Naturgcsch. der Rankcnfusscr. Berlin, 1834,