210 ARACHNIDA. but in some cases there exists a well-marked character. The greater part of the aranea of the male sex have, at the extremity of their maxillary palp, a swelling containing a compli- cated structure, which is not found in the female. Until lately this protuberance was considered, notwithstanding its anomalous po- sition, as the penis of the male; and even now this opinion is maintained by many naturalists. All observers indeed, both ancient and mo- dern, agree in stating that copulation takes place by means of this part. They have repeatedly observed the fact, and have described the pro- cess with all the details that can inspire con- fidence in their observations. Nevertheless it appears to us certain, if the anatomical facts we are about to disclose are accurate, that there is some mistake on their part, and that what they have taken for the act of copulation was in reality only a prelude to it. It is indeed true th it the male spiders are distinguished from the females by the swelling at the extre- mity of the maxillary palp, and that that swel- ling presents a very complicated structure. Treviranus, Savigny, and, earlier than these, Lyonnet, have given detailed figures of it, which may be consulted with advantage: our descrip- tion will be after that of Treviranus, and from observations made on the common spider, 2c- genaria dumestica. The male of this species, when arrived at the adult state, presents a considerable dilatation at the extremity of its maxillary palp (JigAOO,(i). On carefully observing this swelling, it is per- Fig. 100. ceived to arise from the penultimate joint (6), which is enlarged and spiny. The swelling it- self, or what has been termed penis, (fg. 100 and^^.101, «,) is a con- cave body from which a membranous, vesi- cular, and glandiform body (c) protrudes, ter- minated by several horny pieces (d), which are curved and pro- ject but slightly in tliis species, but ac- quire, in others, a con- siderable development, and protrude in the form of long hooks having a much greater complication of structure. Fig. 101. In order that this part should be a penis, as has been supposed, and as many naturalists still believe,it ought to be perforated for the emission of the prolific liquor. Now, Treviranus is certain that it is not perforated by any foramen, and also that there does not exist in the interior of the palp any excretory duct which could have brought to this part the secre tion of the testicles. Lastly, and this proof is still more conclusive, on examining carefully the under surface of the abdomen of a male, he discovered at its base, i. e. at the point where it is inserted into the thorax, between the aper- tures of respiration, and at the part correspond- ing to the vulvary opening of the female, two very small orifices, placed in a transverse fissure, which he ascertained to be the true outlets of the male apparatus. lie found in the inte- rior of the abdomen two cylindrical dilated vessels, which he determined to be the testes. (Fig. 102, b,b.) These two organs open into two long, slender, tortuous. Fig. 102. excretory canals (c), which terminate at the two orifices of which we have spoken (a), but without the appear- ance of any superaddition of a firm or horny part that can be compared to a penis. From this description it is certain that what has been regarded as the act of copu- lation, has been only preli- minary, and that the intro- duction of the extremity of the maxillary palp of the male into the vaginal aper- tures of the female was for the mere purpose of opening the ovid ucts in order that the ac- tual coitus should be effect- ed with facility and with- out doubt instantaneously ; which explains why no ob- server has hitherto witness- ed the act.* The remarkable sexual differences which obtain in ■a the araneae are not found in other arachnidans. Thus in the scorpions the maxil- lary palps have a similar organization in both sexes, being terminated by pincers, both in the male and female, (Jig. 84, b.) The external aperture of the male apparatus is placed behind the thorax, and manifests itself by the presence of a valve formed by two semi- circular pieces (fig. 84, c.) The internal struc- ture of these organs is but imperfectly known. Treviranus believes that he could distinguish the testicles which terminated at the extremity in a kind of horny penis. Leon Dufour has given a more detailed description of these or- gans, together with a figure which represents each testis, as being a large network of three meshes formed by cylindrical tubes. The male, like the female scorpion, presents at the inferior part of the body on either side of * Mr. Blackwall denies the accuracy of Trevi- ranus's opinion, and supports that of Lister and the older observers, as to the sexual function of the maxillary palp, founding his remarks on observa- tions made on various individuals of the genera, Epeira, Theridion, and Agelena. We must refer for the details to the memoir before quoted from the Transactions of the Linna:an Society.—Ed.