738 CRANIUM. orbital- plate on the other; the junction of this mass to the body of the sphenoid; the turbi- nated process of the same bone, and, some- times, the opening into its sinus; the articular surface for the palate bone; and, lastly, the base of the pterygoid process exhibiting the anterior orifice of the Vidian canal. Still more outwardly is the part which forms the orbit, concave, and broader before than behind. To the fore part there are, on the outer side, the lachrymal fossa; on the inner side the trochlear fossa, and, near to it, the orbitar orifice of the supra-orbitary foramen. Further back there is on the inner side a por- tion of the transverse suture between the frontal and ethmoidal bones, containing the two infernal orbitar foramina ; and, to the outer side, another portion of the same suture between the frontal and sphenoid. A third, shorter portion connects the two preceding, and unites the frontal to the small wing of the sphenoid. Behind this there are in succession the foramen opticum; the foramen lacerum orbitale superius; the foramen rotundum; and, lastly, the sulcus temporalis leading from the last foramen, and being behind the orbitar process of the sphenoid bone. The middle division offers in its centre the basilar process of the occipital bone, and the line of its junction with the sphenoid. On it are seen the indications of the attachment of the pharyngeal and anterior recti muscles. Its posterior edge forms a segment of a circle to assist in forming the foramen magnum. On either side, and from before backwards, are the external and internal pterygoid pro- cesses, with the fossa navicularis, fossa ptery- goidea, and hiatus palatinus between the two processes; the posterior orifice of the Vidian canal; the foramen lacerum anterius; the under surface of the petrous process of tlie temporal bone, with, on one side, the line of its junction with the basilar process, and, on the other, the line of its junction with the sphenoid bone, the Eustachian sulcus occu- pying the latter; behind the foramen lacerum anterius is tlie rough surface for the origin of the levator palati and tensor tympani muscles; the inferior orifice of the carotid canal; the opening of the aqueduct of the cochlea ; and, lastly, the foramen lacerum posterius. More outwardly, and pursuing the same direction, are the under surface of the great wing of the sphenoid bone; its line of union with the temporal; the processus articularis ; the fossa articularis; the Glasserian fissure; the fossa parotidea ; and, lastly, the rough inferior bor- der of the foramen auditorium externum. On the inner edge of this plane, and to the outer side of the sulcus Eustachianus, there are, successively, the foramen ovale; the foramen spinale ; the styloid process ; the spinous pro- cess, which is wedged into the Glasserian fis- sure; the crest between the fossa parotidea and the foramen lacerum posterius ; the vagi- nal process and the styloid process. The posterior division exhibits, on the me- dian line, the foramen magnum ; the longi- tudinal spine bisecting the inferior curved ridge, and having, on each side, below that ridge, rough depressions for the attachment of the posterior recti muscles, and above that ridge, still stronger and larger marks of the attachment of the complexus ; and, lastly, the inferior aspect of the occipital protuberance. To the extreme outside and passing from behind forwards, there are the termination of the superior occipital ridge; the additamentum suturae lambdoidalis ; the posterior j)art of the mastoid portion of the temporal bone dis- playing the foramen mastoideum ; the sulcus occipitalis on one hand, the mammillary pro- cess of the mastoid portion of the temporal bone on the other, and the sulcus digastricus between the two; and, lastly, the foramen stylo-mastoideum at the bottom of the sulcus digastricus. Midway, and between the me- dian and outer portions of this region, and still passing from behind forwards, there are, the superior occipital ridge, the inferior occipital ridge, and between them the marks of the attachment of the splenius capitis and trachelo- mastoideus; the oblique surface into which the obliqmis capitis superior is inserted ; the posterior condyloid fossa, containing the pos- terior condyloid foramen whenever it exists; the condyle itself; the anterior condyloid fossa and foramen; and, lastly, to the outside of the condyle, the processus lateralis. Tlie lateral region (Jig. 373) is oval, and its boundaries have already been stated. Its sur- face, lengthwise, is undulated, being convex behind, where the temporal and parietal form it; and concave in front, where the temporal and sphenoidal enter into its composition. Pro- ceeding from above downwards, and com- mencing with the linea temporalis, we have so much of the parietal and frontal bones as are below that line, with tlie inferior extremity of the coronal suture between them; next, the sutura squamosa between the parietal and temporal bones, and part of the transverse suture between the frontal and sphenoid; below this, the squamous process of the tem- poral bone, and, in front of it, the temporal process of the sphenoid with the line of arti- culation between them. These parts form the J'ossa temporalis, which is limited inferiorly, on the sphenoid by a crest which divides it from the jugal fossa belonging to the face, and on the temporal by a groove on die upper part of the two roots of the zygomatic process, in which play the posterior horizontal fibres of the temporal muscle. Passing from behind forwards, there will be observed at the lower boundary of this region, the additamentum suturse squamosa; the base of the mastoid process; the foramen auditorium externum; and, lastly, the zygomatic process of the tem- poral bone articulating anteriorly with the malar bone. The interior of the cranium presents through- out its entire extent more or less evidence of the adaptation of its surface to the convolutions of the brain. The base is bounded, in front by the fora- men coecum ; behind, by the centre of the internal crucial spine; and, in its circumfe-