CARNIVORA. Fig. 196 Fig. 197. The metatarsal bones (fig. 196,197, 198, are generally five. In the cats and the clogs, indeed, the inner one is merely rudimentary, a defect which is perfectly consonant with the absence of a posterior thumb in these two genera. Those of the seal tribe are remark- ably long and slender. The first is the longest, the fifth the next, then the second, the fourth, and the middle one which is the shortest. The toes consist of three phalanges (fig. 196, 197, 198, a, b, c,) and in most genera there are five toes; the bears and other plantigrades having the inner toe or thumb in the same range as the others; in the mustelidm it is a little smaller, and in the cats and dogs it is wholly wanting. The toes in the seal tribe are developed to considerable length, and being much extended, and covered with an entire skin which extends from one to the otlier, a very perfect tinlike paddle is thus furnished. The types, then, of the three different varie- ties of progression are here distinctly shewn. In the foot of the bear (fig. 197) we find that every thing in its formation is made subser- vient to the action of walking; the heel, the tarsal and the metatarsal bones, and the pha- langes all rest upon the ground, and these bones are elongated for that purpose. In the Lion (fig. 196) the last phalanges only rest on the ground, the heel being drawn upwards, and the whole of the foot, excepting that small portion which is applied to the ground, is thus made an additional lever for the increase of the animal's powers of leaping and bounding in its course. In this form the limb consists of three joints (the pelvis being the fixed point) moveable in alternately different directions, capable of being all approximated to each other, and then suddenly and simultaneously extended with prodigious force. In the third type, that of the Seal (fig. 198), the bones are all much flattened, and, excepting the foot, greatly shortened ; the foot itself being de- veloped both longitudinally and laterally into a finlike expansion. The Muscular System.—^The general cha- racter of the muscles in the Carnivora is that of combined power and irritability. The ele vators of the lower jaw, the masseters and the teinporuh, are enormously large, for the pur- pose of cutting and tearing the flesh and the harder portions of their food. The muscles of the face also, those of the lips, of the nose, of the eyelids, and of the ears, are all of them greatly developed and capable of the most extensive and powerful motion. A moment's reflexion upon the habits of these animals, and particularly on those of the cats, will shew the necessity of enormous power in the muscles which raise the head upon the spine. A Lion, it is said,can killamoderate-sized bullock, throw it on his back by a toss of the head, and trot ofT with it to his hiding-place. All the muscles, therefore, which arise from the vertebrEe of the neck and are inserted into the projecting ridge of the occipital bone, are of prodigious strength. The same remark holds good of all the muscles of the limbs, particularly those of the anterior extremity, but which do not require a par- ticular description or demonstration. The mus- cles of the tail, which are for the most part similar in this order to those in the tailed Qua- drumana and Ruminantia, will be described in the articles devoted to the anatomy of those animals. The digestive organs.—The structure which has been already detailed in the skeleton of the Carnivora, and alluded to in their muscular