CAVITY. 505 exist during life, wlien the viscera of the abdo- men are under tlie influence of the action of its walls, for then the direction of the superior meseaiteric artery is so little downwards and so much forwards that it cannot be said to exert any pressure upon the intestine; yet it is remarkable that in many cases of ruptured intestine, the seat of the rupture has been a very short way below the continuation of the duodenum into the jejunum. The inferior portion of the duodenum rests upon the vena cava and the aorta, and is in contact with these vessels by its posterior wall. The inferior margin of this intestine descends to very near the bifin-cation of the aorta, leaving no more than from one-half to three-fourths of an inch interval. We notice, moreover, in this region the obliquity of the mesentery, the arterial and venous, nervous and lacteal ramifications existing between its lamince and the mesenteric glands or ganglions connected with the lacteals, which ganglions are often very few and much atrophied in old subjects. The convolutions of the small intestine are covered in front by the omentum, and are very closely in apposition with each other : hence they become ' matted together'by the lymph effused in peritonitis, and hence, too, in per- forations, effusion of the intestinal contents by no means necessarily takes place. The looseness of the intestinal convolutions and of the mesentery by which those convolutions are tied to the spine, admits not only of their being liable to frequent introsusception, but also of being strangulated by the twisting of a knuckle of intestine. For the same reason it is that we find this intestine forming most of the hernioe which protrude from the various regions of the abdomen. The small intestine occupies the whole central umbilical region, extending likewise on either side mto the lum- bar regions and downwards into the pelvis. Thus it forms a considerable mass interposed between the anterior and posterior abdominal walls, and it is easy to conceive how, during an irregularly distended state of the intestine, violence applied to the abdomen in front can cause a rupture of a part of it without occa- sioning any solution of continuity in the wall of the abdomen. The laminae of the mesentery pass back- wards and outwards along the sides of the spine, and entering the lumbar regions become continuous with the right and left mesocolons. By their divergence in front of the spine they form a triangular enclosure, the basis of which is formed by the bodies of the vertebree. In this space we find the aorta, and lower down the primitive iliac arteries, the commencement of the thoracic duct, the receptaculum chyli, and several tributary lymphatics and lacteals with their ganglions, the vena cava ascendens, and the left renal vein, the lumbar arteries and veins, and many nervous ramifications from the sympathetic, and more on the sides the lumbar ganglia of the same nerve; here also ■we notice the fibrous insertions of the crura of the diaphragm, and the anterior common ligament of the vertebroe. Each lamina of the VOL. I. mesentery, as it passes outwai-ds, crosses over the ureter lying on the psoas muscle, and the spermatic artery with the accompanying veins, and some of the musculo-cutaneous branches of the lumbar plexus, and having entered the lumbar region, covers the right and left colons, forming, at its reflections on and off the intestine, the mesocolons. Each of these portions of the colon lies very nearly con- nected to the posterior wall of each lumbar region, having only the lower portion of the kidney, with its surrounding adeps, interposed above. In some instances a mesocolon does not exist, and the colon is bound down to the posterior wall of the lumbar region, so that the posterior surface of the intestine uncovered by peritoneum is in direct contact with the quadratus lumborum muscle or the kidney, having only cellular membrane or fat inter- vening, and this occurs much more frequently at the left than at the right side: hence the not uncommon occurrence of lumbar abscess, or renal abscess, or calculi bemg discharged into the colon, and so finding their way out by stool. The proximity too of the portions of the colon to the ureters serves, as Velpeau has remarked, to explain how pins, or beans, or pieces of lead find their way into the bladder and become the nuclei of calculi there, or being impeded in their progress through the ureter, the calculous matter concretes around them in that canal. In confirmation of this explanation, he relates a case which occurred at La Pitie. A pin, the head of which was still found in the colon, in which it had excited considerable ulceration, had passed also into the ureter, so that a calculus, of which the pin formed the axis, projected partly withm and existed partly without the canal of the ureter.* Whether the mesocolons exist or not, the right and left colons are in general so fixed in situ, that they rarely form the contents of a hernial sac. Hypogastric region.—The central portion of this region is occupied by the continued con- volutions of the small intestine. The right iliac region is in general entirely or almost entirely occupied by the coecum, which sometimes has a mesocoecum and sometimes not. In the latter case, a little reticular cellular membrane, and the fascia iliaca, are all that separate the intestine from the surface of the iliacus in- ternus muscle. Beneath the fascia the ilio- scrotal and the inguino-cutaneous nerves are seen passing outwards to their destination. The internal iliac artery and vem lie alongr the inner margin of the psoas muscle, covered by a thin fibrous expansion, which is a process from the iliac fascia, and deeply seated between the psoas and iliacus internus muscles is the ante- rior crural nerve. The external iliac arteries are crossed at their origin by the ureters, and along their course a few glands may be found either at the sides or in front. This region is one of great interest to the pathologist, in con- sequence of the frequent occurrence of disease * Velpeau, Anat, Chir, t. ii. p. 175. 2 L