AVES. 321 The differences in the structure of the gizzard resolve themselves into the greater or less extent of the tendons, and the greater or less thick- ness of the muscular coat, and of the lining membrane. In the Raptorcs the gizzard {d, Jig. 156) assumes the form of a mere membranous cavity, in accordance with the animal and easily di- gestible nature of their food. The muscular coat is extremely thin; the fibres principally radiate from small tendons {c, fig- 156), and there are some longitudinal fibres beneath the radiating or external layer. In the Rusoi-€s and lamellirostral Natatores it exhibits the structure to which the term giz- zard can be more appropriately applied. The muscular fibres are distinguished by their unparalleled density of texture and deep colour, and are arranged in four masses ; tvi'o are of a hemispherical form, and their closely- packed fibres run transversely to be connected to very strong anterior and posterior tendons {e. Jig. 157, 162); they constitute the sides of the gizzard, and are termed the digastric muscles or ' musculi laterales' {d, Jig. 161, 162): between these, at the end of the gizzard, are the two smaller and thinner muscles called ' musculi intermedii' {f,Jig. 162). There are likewise irregular bands placed about the cir- cumference of the gizzard. Fig. 161 shows the relative thickness of the musculi laterales in the gizzard of a Swan, and fg. 162 that of the musculi intermedii and tendon. Fig. 162. Gizzard of a Swan. The internal coat of the gizzard (c, h, Jig. 162) is extremely hard and thick, and being of a horny or cuticular nature, it is liable to be increased by pressure and friction, and as it is most subject to these influences at the parts of the gizzard opposite the musculi laterales, two callous buttons are there formed, (g,g, fig. 162). It is here that the fibrous structure of the lining membrane can be most plainly seen :—and it is worthy of observation that the fibres are not perpendicular to the plane of the muscles but VOL. r. oblique, and in opposite directions, on the two sides. Elsewhere the cuticular lining is dis- posed in ridges and prominences (/(, ^^r. 161, 162), which vary in diffisrent birds, but are retty constant in the same species. Carus* as recently figured the gizzard of a Petrel (Procclluria glaciulits), the lining membrane of which is disposed in a pavement of small square tubercles, like the gastric teeth of some Mollusca. The cavity of the gizzard is so encroached upon by the grinding apparatus, that it is necessarily very small, the two horny callosities having their internal flat surfaces opposed to one another, like ' millstones.' A crop is as essential an appendage to this structure as the ^ hopper' to the mill; it receives the food as it is swallowed, and supplies it the gizzard in small successive quantities as it is wanted.f Between the stomach of the carnivorous Eagle, and that of the graminivorous Swan, there are numerous intermediate structures, but it is necessary to observe that the animal or vegetable nature of the food cannotalwaysbe pre- dicated of from the different degrees of strength in the gizzard. Ilard-coated coleopterous in- sects, for example, require thicker parietes for their due comminution than pulpy succulent fruits. In the subgenus Euphones, among the Tana- gers, the muscular or pyloric division of the stomach is remarkably small and not sepa- rated from the duodenum by a narrow pylorus.J The parietes of the gizzard, like those of other muscular cavities, become thickened when stimulated to contract on their contents with greater force than usual. In the Ilunterian collection this fact is well illustrated by pre- parations of the gizzard of the Sea-gull in the natural state, and that of another Sea-gull which had been brought to feed on barley. The digastric muscles in the latter are more tlian double the thickness of those in the Sea-gull which had lived on fish.§ The immediate agents in triturating the food are hard foreign bodies, as sand, gravel, or peb- bles. The well-known habit in the granivorous birds of swallowing stones with their food has been very differently explained. Blumenbach observes that ' Ceesalpinus considered it rather as a medicine than as a common assistance to digestion; Boerhaave, as an absorbent for the acid of the stomach ; Redi, as a substitute for teeth; Whytt, as a mechanical irritation, adapt- ed to the callous and insensible nature of the coats of the stomach.' Spallanzani rejected all supposition of design or object, and hazarded the stupid observation that the stones were swallowed from mere stupidity. * Tabulae An.ilomiamComparativam illusH-ames, fol. pars iv. 1835. t Thus we find in Parrots, where the gizzard is remarkably small, that a crop is present. A like receptacle exists also in the Flamingo, in which the gizzard is small but strong. t Carus ut supra, tab. vi. fig. iv. § See Home, Corap. Anatomy, vol. i. p. 271, and Hunter, Animal CEconomy, p. 221, where it is re- lated that a similar change was effected by changing the food of a tame Kite. Y