CAVITY. 503 after having partly covered the duodenum* The lesser splanchnic nerve will also be found in this situation lying on the quadratus lum- borum muscle and on the psoas, and descend- ing to throw itself into the renal plexus. On a plane posterior to the lesser omentum the inferior surface of the liver is in contact with the kidney, and with the angle of junction of the ascending and transverse portions of the colon, as is proved by the frequent adhesion of this intestine to the liver. The situation of the gall-bladder in this region demands atten- tion;—its fundus corresponds to the cartilage of the ninth rib, beneath which it sometimes projects to an extent proportionate to the de- gree to which it is distended ; hence it is evi- dent that an unusually distended gall-bladder is not unlikely to form a tumour below the margin of the ribs presenting all the characters of an hepatic abscess.f The gall-bladder is, in this region, in close connexion either by its neck or body, with the duodenum or tranverse colon, a fact which explains the evacuation of gall- stones into either of those intestines. The left lobe of the liver projects more or less into the central portion of the epigastric region, or that which is called the proper epigastrmm. Here it is in contact by its concave surface with the anterior superior surface of the pyloric half or third of the stomach. This latter viscus when contracted lies very far back in the epigastric excavation, and extends towards the left side, so as to occupy the left hypochondrium to a great extent. Its pyloric tliird or half is in contact with the liver, tiie remaining or cardiac portion is in contact with the diaphragm; hence it is always the displaced organ in dia- phragmatic hernia. This close connexion of the stomach and diaphragm likewise explains the peculiar sonorousness which percussion frequently elicits over the left hypochondrium and even for some distance up the anterior surface of the thorax, so that when the sto- mach is large and flatulent, it is often very difficult to ascertain whether the sound pro- duced and heard in this region results from an effusion of air and liquid uito the thorax, or from such a stomach hlled partly with liquid and partly with air. When the stomach is full, the aspect of its superior surface is more directly upwards and less forwaids than in the empty state ; but a considerable portion of the anterior part of this surface, as well as of the greater curvature, is in contact with the abdo- minal parietes. The great curvature of the stomach for three-fifths of its extent towards the pylorus is closely connected with the upper * Blandin records a remarkable case of internal stiangulation which took place by the introduction of a considerable portion of the small intestine through the foramen of Winslow into the cavity of the omentum, from which it escaped through a lacerated opening in the transverse mesocolon which firmly constricted a knuckle of the intestine and occasioned mortification of it.—Anat. Tonoa. p. 442. ' ^ t See cases recorded by Andral, Clin. Med. t. iv. and Graves, Dublin Hosp. Rep. vqI, iv. surface of the transverse arch of the colon, and with the two anterior laminae of the great omentum which come in contact along the line of that curvature, enclosing between them the anastomosis of the gastio-epiploic arteries. Hence we sometimes find that, in cases of per- foration of the stomach, the opening is filled up by the adhesion of the wall of the colon to the serous coat of the former viscus, and the effusion of its contents is thereby prevented ; and it has been said that fluids may pass through an ulcer of the great curvature and be effused between the laminae of the omentum, so as to point extenially as an abscess.* The extent of the relation of the stomach to the liver varies; in some instances it extends as far outwards as the gall-bladder; and Cruveilhier mentions a case in which gall-stones were discharged into the stomach in consequence of an adhesion formed by its anterior surface with the gall- bladder. The stomach rests by its posterior and inferior surface on the superior lamina of the transverse mesocolon, which forms a natural floor to the epigastric region, and separating it from the umbilical region. Posteriorly the same lamina of the transverse mesocolon sepa- rates it from the inferior transverse portion of the duodenum and from the head of the pan- creas, which again are separated from the spine by the aorta and crura of the diaphragm. The lobulus Spigelii of the liver is seen behind, and to the left of the lesser curvature of the stomach, and when the latter is drawn down- wards and the liver forwards, this lobe projects, pushing the gastro-hepatic omentum before it; the lesser curvature has likewise among its connections posteriorly the coeliac axis and solar plexus, and like the great curvature has an arterial anastomosis running along it formed by the superior pyloric and gastric arteries. The spleen is very intimately connected by the gastro-splenic omentum to the left extremity or great cul-de-sac of the stomach, and seems, as it were, moulded upon it, following it in its movements, and each accompanying the other in its displacements: behind this portion of the stomach are the tail of the pancreas, the left kidney, and supra-renal capsule. The point of entrance of the oesophagus into the cardiac extremity of the stomach is overlapped by the left lobe of the liver and its left lateral ligament, and it rests upon the decussating muscular bundles of the diaphragm.f In the epigastric region we likewise find the first portion of the duodenum passing from left to right slightly upwards and backwards, terminating at the neck of the gall-bladder, with which it often contracts preternatural adhesions. Behind this superior portion of the duodenum, a little to the left of its ter- mination, the ductus communis choledochus * Ledran, quoted by Velpeau, Anat. Chir. t. ii. p. 165. + From the relations of the stomach to the abdo- minal parietes we are not surprised to read of fistu- lous communications being formed between that viscus and various regions of the abdominal surface.