ABSORPTION. 30 quence of which the constituents may be more completely mixed together, and to a certain degree of pressure and temperature to which it is exposed, which may modify any spontaneous change that might otherwise take place in the arrangement of its elements. But to whatever cause It may be referred, we must consider the chemical and physical change in the nature of the chyle as one effect produced by the lacleals, as well as the progressive motion which is im- parted to their contents. In the present state of our knowledge on the subject, it remains for us to consider whether we have any independent evidence of the exist- ence of the muscular fibres of the absorbent vessels, whether, if their existence be proved, and their contractility thus established, it would be necessary for us to search out for other causes of the effects, and lastly, to what other principle the acknowledged effects might be attributed, should it appear, upon full con- sideration, that the assigned cause is insufficient or inadequate. The above considerations lead us to give an account of the hypothesis of the action of the absorbents, which has been proposed by M. Magendie. He had ascertained, by a previous train of experiments, that according to the con- dition of the system as to depletion or plethora, the process of absorption was respectively acce- lerated or retarded. Hence he draws the con- clusion, which, however, we conceive not to be a necessary consequence of the premises, that the function depends on a mere mechanical principle, independent of any vital action. The mechanical principle to which he has recourse, and which he thinks can alone account for the effect, is that of capillary attraction ; but this he conceives not to take place from the open mouths of the vessels, according to the ordinary conception of the subject, but that the fluid is imbibed by the substance of the vessel itself, and is, as it were, filtered through its pores.* He explains its further progress by supposing, that when it has entered these pores, it is car- ried forwards by the current of the fluid pre- viously in the vessel. To prove his idea of the permeability of the parietes of the vessels, he instituted a series of experiments on the veins of an animal shortly after death, when he found that they were capable of imbibing and transmitting certain fluids with which they were placed in contact. Still farther to substantiate the hypothesis, M. Magendie repeated a set of analogous ex- periments on the vessels of a living animal. They consisted essentially in detaching a por- tion of one of the great veins, and applying to * Journ. t. i. p. 6 et seq. and Diet, de Med. et Chir. Prat. " Absorption," t. i. p. 91 et seq. The doctrine of transudation was maintained by many of the older physiologists ; see Kauw Boer- haave, de Persp. ; also Haller, El. Phys. ii. 2. "23 ; more lately it was supported by W. Hunter, Med. Com. eh. 6 ; by Walter, ubi supra, ยง 28 . . 35 ; and by Mascagni, ps. 1. sect. i. and is zealously main- tained by his commentator Bellini, t. i. not. 4. p. 33 . . 0. The " penetrabilite" of the cellular tex- ture was one of the fundamental doctrines of Bordcu, Kecherches sur le Tissue muqueux, ยง 72. its surface the solution of some narcotic or poisonous substance, the effects of which were, in a short time, manifested in the system at large.* This doctrine of imbibition and transudation has been embraced by M. Fodera, who has endeavoured to confirm the opinion of M. Ma- gendie by additional experiments, which he conceives tend directly to prove that the vessels of the living body possess this power of im- bibition. The method which he adopted to prove this point, in the most unequivocal man- ner, was to inject into two separate cavities of the body two fluids, which by their union pro- duce a compound, the presence of which may be easily detected, and which could be formed by no other means except by this union. For example, into the cavities of the pleura and the peritoneum were respectively injected the solutions of the ferro-prussiate of potash and of the sulphate of iron, when it was found, after a certain length of time, that various membranes and glands, connected with the thorax and the abdomen, were tinged with a blue colour. M. Magendie afterwards performed an ex- periment, which seemed more directly to bear upon the question, where a solution of the ferro-prussiate was retained in a portion of the intestine, at the same time that its external surface was placed in contact with a solution of the sulphate of iron: the part was then ex- posed to the galvanic influence, the result of which was that a blue tinge was communicated to the sulphate. We are further informed, that according to the direction of the galvanic cur- rent, the blue colour was produced either in the sulphate or in the ferro-prussiate. From these experiments M. Fodera draws the con- clusion, that the processes of absorption and of exhalation may be referred to the mechanical operations of imbibition and transudation, which take place through the pores or capillary open- ings of the various textures of the body.f On these experiments, and the conclusion deduced from them, we shall remark, that the facts appear to prove that membranes, perhaps during life, and certainly after death, before any visible decomposition has taken place, are capable of transmitting fluids through their tex- ture ; but we conceive that the analogy between this case and that of the entrance of chyle into the lacteals is so incomplete, that we can draw no inference from the one of these events which can be fairly applied to the other. Both the mechanical and the physiological properties of membranes and vessels differ much from each other, while the nature of the fluids employed in * Journ. t. i. p. 9, 10. t " Recherches sur I'Absorption et I'Exhalalion," and Magendie's Journ. t. iii. p. 35 et seq. ; see, also Med. Kepos. v. xix. p. 419, et Med. Journ. v. xix. p. 488, 9. On this subject see the rrmarks of Tiedemann, Traite de Physiol, par Jourdan, ยง 168. p. 242. Mr. Mayo remarks, that the principle of imbibition and transudation affords a more easy ex- planation of the experiments of MM. Magendie and Segalas, than that of venous absorption ; Phy- siol. (3rd ed.) p. 97 ct seq. See the remarks and objections of Sir D. Barry, Exper. Researches, p. 80 .. 2 et alibi ; also Elliotson's Physiol, p. 133.