ACALEPHiE. 46 loosely attached to the lower surface of the air-bladder. In the diphyda, they are in the form of numerous vesicles, having thick tunics filled with an opaque white fluid, and situated within one of their swimming organs. Such parts were seen by Eschscholtz only in some individuals, and on this account he was dis- posed to regard them as ovaries. But Messrs. Quoy and Gaimard seem to consider it more probable that the minute botryoidal bunches of vesicles, which surround the base of each sucker on the lengthened filaments, (before alluded to as being subservient both to nutri- tion and to locomotion,) are the ovaries.* It does not appear that either Eschscholtz or Messrs. Quoy and Gai- mard saw the ova. In the ciliograda, the ovaries are more obvious. They consist of two or four vesicular organs, each placed between two of the cilia-bearing arches. In cydippe, they are of a red colour, and nearly cy- lindrical shape. The ova are spherical. The parts in the pul- mograda corresponding to the organs just referred to, are eight round bodies, of small size, situated near the margin of the disc, each formed of a vesicle, containing, at its free ex- tremity, many minute hexagonal corpuscules; there is attached to each vesicle a digitated appen- dix, which seems to be hollow, and to com- municate with the circular vessel. These organs were seen by Gaede and by Miiller in medusa capillata, and M. aurita, and by Eschscholtz in some species of cyanca, stlie- nonia, petagia, and chrysuora ; Dr. M. Ed- wards has observed them also, at certain seasons, in rhizostoma; and in carylidea mar- supialis, he found, midway between each pair of pendent filaments, and immediately above a little notch in the margin, four spots of a deep brown colour, each of which appeared, under the microscope, to be formed partly by a minute spherical body, having a granular aspect, as if it were filled with eggs, and partly by a little sac, with puckered sides, which is imbedded in the gelatinous substance of the body. These he regards as the ovaries.f But, notwithstanding their having found gra- nular bodies like ova in the organs above described, neither Gaede nor Miiller considered them as ovaries. Miiller regarded the granules as excrementitious matters ; and Gaede thought that he saw the ovaries in the plaited mem- branes of the gastric cavities; whence he observed the ova descend into certain minute * Ann. des .Sc. Nat. x. 8. t Ann. des Sc. Nat. xxviii. 250. A portion of the vvigeroiis Jila/iient of Diphyes much magnified. vesicles imbedded in the margins of the arms- He remarked that, in 7»edusa aurita, when the cells in the arms were filled With eggs, the plaited membranes had none; and, on the other hand, when there were no eggs in the arms, the plaited membranes were studded witii them. Cuvier was also of opinion that the ova are formed in the plaited membranes above men- tioned, and that they are matured in the mar- gins of the arms.* No observations, so far as we know, have hitherto been made on the development of the ova ; but Dr. Grant has recently stated that the ova of eqiwrea are furnished with cilia, and have locomotive powers, like the ova of the purifh-a and po/ypifera.f The colours of the acalephae often depend on the tints of their ova: these are generally red, but sometimes brown, yellow, or purple. VIII. Geographical distribution.—We con- ceive that a brief notice of this part of their natural history may, in some measure, illus- strate the physiology of the acalephae. They are met with in all seas ; but certain families exist more abundantly in some localities than in others. The ciliograda and pulmograda, for instance, are inhabitants chiefly of the colder regions, while the physograda are seldom found beyond the limits of the tropical zone. Some float in bays, and near land, but the greater number in the high seas. Medusa: and cyanea are met with only in the cold and tem- perate zones of the northern hemisphere. Cy- dippe lives in the North Arctic Ocean, as well as in the Pacific,under the equator. One species of cestum inhabits the Mediterranean,—another the South Sea. It frequently happens that enormous numbers of one species are met with closely grouped together, so as somewhat to impede a ship's progress for two or three suc- cessive days; after which, not a single indi- vidual of the same species is seen. In the European seas, it is chiefly in summer and autumn that the acaleplia; swim on the surface. In winter, they probably sink to the bottom. niBLIOGRAPDY.—Madeer, Tentamen systematis Medusarum stabiliendi, in Nova Acta Aca K Natur. cutios. vol. viii. Append, p. 19 ; and Paper^ in the Svenska Vetenskaps nya Handlingar An. 1791, transl. into Germ. s. t. Ncue Abhand. der Schwed. Akademie, &c. Jahr 1791 ; Seite 75, 149, 227. Dana, De quibusdam uitic* marinae differentiis : lUiscel. Societat. Taininens. v. iii. p. 206. Miiller, Beschreibung zweier Medusen : Beschaeft. der Ber- liner Gesellsch. Nalurfor. Fieunde Bd. 2. S. 290. Cuvier, Sur I'organi-jalion de quelques Meduses ; Societe Philomat. A. 3, F. 2, p. 69. Str67n, A paper in Danish on the Medusa palliata in the Skrifterder Kiobenhab. Selskabs nye Saral. Deel.3, S. 250. Swarfz, Medusa pelagica beskrifven ; Svenska Vetens. Acad. Hand. A. 1791, S. 188 in the German transl. T. 1791, S. 172. Gaede, Bey- traege zur Anatomie und Physiologic der Medusen, 8vo. Berl. 1816. Quoy et Gaimard, Zoologie d'un Voyage autour da Monde, 2 vols. 4to. Atlas fol. Paris, 1824. Duperrey, Voyage autour du Monde 4to. Atlas fol. Paris, 1826-1834. (John Coldstream,.) * Regne Animal, second edit. iii. 277. See also Carus, Comp. Anat. ii. 307. t Lectures, Lancet, No, 566. p. 483.