ANIMAL KINGDOM. 112 compound eyes, more than four pairs of legs, the respiration effected by gills, and the shell generally hard and calcareous. These ento- moid aquatic animals are generally carnivorous, and have a short and straight alimentary canal. Tiieir circulating system is often aided by a muscular ventricle. The sexes are separate, and the organs of generation are double and symmetrical in both sexes. Their biliary or- gans have a conglomerate form, being com- posed of minute glandular follicles grouped together into lobules and larger lobes. Some of these animals are fixed and parasitic, and breathe by their general exterior surface; most are free, and respire by means of branchiae placed under the sides of the carapace or ex- posed on the under-surface of the post-abdomen. (See Crustacea.) The THIRD, or cyclo-gangliated or mol- luscous DIVISION of the animal kingdom, com- prehends five classes, viz.:— 14. Tunkata, soft, aquatic, acephalous animals, breathing by internal branchiae, never in form of four pectinated laminae, and covered by a close external elastic tunic furnished with at least two apertures. The exterior tunic is lined by a muscular coat; sympathetic ganglia are observed in the abdominal cavity, and the respiratory organs are ciliated as in higher molluscous classes for the production of the respiratory currents. The mouth, unprovided with tentacula or other organs of sense, opens at the bottom of the abdominal cavity,as seen in the crjnthia dione. {Fig. 39. a.) The short oesopha- Fig. 39. gus leads to a capacious stomach (b), sometimes surrounded by the lobes of a small liver, which pours its secretion into that cavity as in higher moUusca. From the stomach a short wide convoluted intestine proceeds to near the ven- tral orifice {(1) of the sac, where it terminates in the anus (c). The thoracic orifice (e), or the entrance to the respiratory cavity, is generally provided with numerous delicate tentacula (_/'), and a nervous longitudinal filament (A) is ge- nerally observed to encompass that opening, and to terminate in a small glanglion (g). These ani- mals are entirely marme, most are fixed, some are free ; they are all femaie, like the conchifera; the circulation is aided by a muscular heart. Many are organically connected in groups, others are isolated, (See Tunicata.) 15. Conchifera, acephalous, aquatic ani- mals, covered with a solid calcareous shell, consisting of at least two pieces, and breathing by internal branchiae in form of four pectinated laminae. These bivalved animals have the mouth, as in the former class, situated at the bottom of the respiratory or thoracic cavity; the stomach is surrounded and perforated by the lobes of the liver; the circulation is aided by a bifid or a divided auricle and by a mus- cular ventricle, which is generally perforated by the rectum, as seen in the aimexed figure of the organs of the spondylus, (Jig. AO.) The two fimbriated lips Fig. 40. (a) which surround the mouth are pro- longed laterally into four tapering flat pec- tinated tentacular ex- pansions (b). The stomach fcj and the intestine are sur- rounded by the large mass of the liver (i), and the rectum, near the adductor muscle (m), penetrates the ventricle of the heart (d),dLt some distance from the anus (ej. The branchial veins (g, h) return the aerated blood to the two lateral divisions of the auricle, these pour it into the ventri- cle, by which it is pro- pelled forwards and backwards through the system, so that the heart is here, as in other invertebrated classes, a systemic organ. (See Conchifera.) 16. GaUeropoda, body invertebrate and in- articulate, provided with a head which for the most part supports tentacula and simple eyes, and furnished with a muscular foot, extended under the abdomen, and adapted for creeping. These animals are sometimes naked, more generally covered witli a univalve, unilocular, solid, external shell. Some gasteropods breathe by a pulmonary cavity, most by branchiae va- riously disposed on the surface or under an open mantle. Most are marine, many inhabit fresh waters, and some reside on land. The higher forms are mostly carnivorous, and the lower orders phytophagous, and this difference affects principally their alimentary apparatus,