728 CRANIUM. into the angle of the petrous and squamous portions of the temporal bone. The laxator tympani muscle arises from this process, and the styloid process before described descends from it. The angle which exists where this border departs from the body, in part forms the foramen lucerum anterius, an opening which, in the recent skull, is closed by cartilage. The anlerior border consists of two portions which join with each other at an angle. Of these the upper is indented, separates the or- bital from the temporal surface, and articulates with the malar bone. The inferior portion is smooth, and forms with the palatine and supe- rior maxillary bone, the fissura lacera orbitulis iriferior. The (da minores are on the upper and an- terior part of the body of the bone ; they ex- tend outwards over the superior borders of the greater wings, and, gradually tapering, they at last end in a point. The upper surface of eachala minor is smooth, and partly forms the anterior fossae of the skull. The processus etiimoidalis is a thin lamina somewhat triangular in form, prolonged for- wards on the median line to articulate with the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. Passing backwards from this process, there is a slightly elevated line separating the depressions which on each side receive the olfactory nerves, and terminated posteriorly by a tubercle (processus olivaris) marking the decussation of the optic nerves, and having upon it a transverse depression for the lodgement of their com- missure. This depression terminates on each side in the foramen opticum for the passage of the optic nerve and the ophthalmic artery, in such a manner that the lesser ala appears to arise by two roots, one above and the other below the foramen. From the sides of the processus ethmoidalis there pass the two transverse spi- nous processes, being the anterior serrated mar- gins of the wings; they are articulated to the orbitar processes of the firontal bones, and sometimes join by their extremities the great wings; thereby, in such a case, converting the superior orbital fissure into a foramen without the aid of the frontal bone. The posterior margins of the alse minores are smooth and less sharp than the anterior; they are pro- longed backwards and inwards, so as to form on each side a short and thick triangular pro- cess, the apex being directed backwards, called the anterior ephippial (anterior clinoid) pro- cess, to which the cornua of the lunated margin of the tentorium are attached. The inferior surface of each ala minor forms the posterior part of the orbit. On it is seen the opening of the optic foramen, and under- neath it, between the smaller and the greater wings, the Jissura lacera orbitalis superior. This fissure is completed into a foramen by the articulation of the frontal bone to the sphenoid, when it appears as an elongated triangular opening directed from below up- wards and from widiin outwards. Thus is formed the foramen lacerum orbitale superius, which allows to emerge from the skull the third, fourth, the ophthalmic division of the fifth, and the sixth pair of nerves, and to enter from the orbit the ophthalmic veins. The articulations then of this bone are, to the ethmoid, by the ethmoidal process and the fore part of the body; to the frontal, by the transverse spinous processes, and the summits of the great wing; to the parietal, by the tips; to the temporal, by the external and posterior borders, and to the malar, by the anterior bor- ders of the same wings; to the occipital, by the basilar process; to the palatine, by the ptery- goid processes and adjacent part of the body; and to the vomer, by the azygos process. The sphenoid bone is developed by nu- merous points of ossification, some of which coalesce before the others appear; and during the period of intra-uterine life the union of these parts is so rapid, that, at birth, the bone con- sists but of three parts, one central, compre- hending the body and smaller wings, and two lateral, each involving a great wing and its cor- responding pterygoid processes. So early as the third month there appear six pointSjOf ossification, two in the great wings, two in the internal pterygoid processes, and two in the smaller wings. During the fourth, fifth, and sixth months six points are esta- blished in the body, one on each side the median line, afterwards another between these and the corresponding greater wing, and ulti- mately another between the optic foramen and those already existing. During the sixth month also a deposit appears between the optic fora- men and the olivary process. In the course of the seventh month the six points of ossification in the body run into each other; in the next month a coalition takes place between those in the pterygoid processes and those in the greater wings, and shordy afterwards a similar union occurs between the point in the small wing and that near the optic foramen. To- wards the termination of the ninth month the two smaller wings are associated together, which then become attached to the already formed body, and thus constitute at birth the three pieces which exist at that epoch. In the early period of extra-uterine life these three portions unite into one, the great wings acquire a more determined curvature than they at first possessed, the pterygoid pro- cesses lose their striated appearance, and ex- hibit more completely their fossa; but it is not until after the lapse of years that the ab- sorbing process, which, commencing in the centre of the body, developes the sinuses, is terminated, so that during childhood there is not only an absence of these sinuses, but of the openings leading from them and of the tur- binated processes which are fixed to their front. 2. Thefrontalbone(osfrontis,corona; Germ. das Stirnbein,) (¥, Jig. 370, 373,) is situated at the anterior part of the cranium, forming part of the vault and part of the base, but considerably more of the former than it does of the latter. It comprises the two anlerior ovoidal domes and the anterior portion of the longitudinal curved rib of the general frame-