CETACEA. 567 apparatus of the nostrils. In order to consti- tute this part, one of tlie processes inclines towards the other, so as almost to come in contact with it for the two anterior thirds ; but posteriorly they recede from one another to give passage to the blow-hole. The cavity beneath this singular bony pent-house is occupied by an interlacement of numerous osseous pro- cesses, and by a close and hard fibrous sub- stance.* If we suppose the cranium of a Dolphin to be proportionally very much shortened, the margins of the rostrum to be greatly expanded and raised, so as to render its superior surface concave; the supra-frontal portions of the maxillary bones to be much developed and the margins extended upwards, thus form- ing an immense basin, at the bottom of which lie the external orifices of the bony nostrils ; if also the occipital crest in the Dolphin were raised behind the maxillanes so as to aid them in the formation of the bony cavity, in the basis of which the parietals are almost con- cealed, we should then have, the skull of a Cachalot. The rostrum in the Catodontidie, not- withstanding its immense size, is formed prin- cipally by the maxillary bones, as the inter- maxillaries and the vomer constitute a compa- ratively small part of the intermediate portion. The nasal passages extend obliquely from below upwards and forwards, but are of very unequal dimensions, the one on the right side not having one-fourth the breadth of that on the left. A corresponding want of symmetry is shown in the nasal bones themselves, and the cranium generally; and this circumstance, it may be remarked, characterizes in a greater or less degree the skull in all the Zoophagous Cetacea. The skull in the Whalebone-Whales fBalie- nidoe) is, however, the most symmetrical in its general form; it is characterized by the great relative predominance of the facial over the cranial portion, by the narrowness of the ros- trum, and the curvature of the rami of the lower jaw, which each extend outwards, in a convex sweep, far beyond the sides of the upper max- illa, and converge to the symphysis, but with- out meeting to form a bony union at their ante- rior extremities. In the Mysticete, or common Whalebone- Whale (of which a side view of die skull is given at^tg. 249) the immense maxillary bones (a, a) are compressed, and disposed each like an expanded arch along the outside of the in- termaxillaries (b) and the vomer; their inferior surface has two facets separated by an interme- diate longitudinal ridge, to the sides of which the plates of whalebone or baleen are attached {b,Jig. 259). The intermaxillary bones are also laterally compressed, and diverge from each other posteriorly to form the long elliptical bony outlet of the nostrils; this orifice is com- pleted behind by the nasal bones, which are of very small size, and are partially covered by the frontal bones, which project forwards above them in the form of two small points. The tranverse portions of the frontal (c) and max- illary (a*) bones, which contribute to form the orbits, extend obliquely backwards: the tem- poral bone (d) is of an irregular quadrate form, and extends much further backwards even than the occipital condyles. The occipital bone (e) advances forwards so as to cover almost all the upper part of the cranium, where it presents a general convexity. Each ramus of the lower jaw (f) is convex exter- nally, compressed and somewhat trenchant both at the upper and lower margins. The coionoid process, on which the letter is placed, is in the form of a slightly raised obtuse angle; the condyloid process (g) forms the large tube- rosity behind. It is articulated to the glenoid cavity by a mass of ligamentous fibres, and not by a capsular ligament surrounding a synovial cavity. The vertebral column of the Cetacea does not differ from that of other mammalia except in the modifications demanded by their peculiar mode of existence. The cervical vertebrae, of the normal number of seven, with the exception of the Manatee, are in general extremely thin, and though in some species, such as the Manatee, the Dugong (k, fig. 246), and the Fig. 249. * For a detailed account of the structure of the Platanista, they are found free; others, as the skull in this singular fresh-water Cetacean, see Dolphins and Porpesses, have the first two Cuvier, Ossemens Fossiles, v. pt. i. p. 298. commonly anchylosed together. In the Bate-