AVES. 324 that the cceoa are deficient in the greater part of the Diurnal llaptores, but we have observed them in the Hulitetus ALbicilki, Aquila Chry- saetos, Astiir puLumburius, and Buteo nisus. They seldom exceed the length above-men- tioned (g,fig. 156), and in the Secretary Vul- ture they form mere tubercles. In the Barn Owl the ccEca severally measure nearly two iiaches in length, and are dilated at their blind extremities; they are proportionally developed in the larger Strigidee. In the lusessores they are invariably very short where present. Among the Scunsorial Genera which possess the coeca, these parts are found to vary in length, measuring in the Cuckoo and Wattle-bird (Glaucopis), each half an inch ; while in the Scyt/irops, or New- Holland Toucan, the cceca are each two inches Ions;, and moderately wide. In the Rasores the cceca present considerable varieties. In the Pigeons {g,J>g- 163) they are as short as in the Insessorial order, and are sometimes wanting altogether, as in the Crown- pigeon. In the Guan (Fenelope cristutu) each coecum is about three inches in length; while in the Grouse each coecum measures a yard long, being thus upwards of three times the length of the entire body. The internal surface of these extraordinary appendages to the alimen- tary canal is further increased in the Grouse by being disposed in eight longitudinal folds, which extend from their blind extremities to within five inches of their termination in the rectum. We have always found tiie coeca in this species filled with a homogeneous pulta- ceous matter without any trace of the heather buds, the remains of which are abundant in the foecal matter contained in the ordinary tract of the intestines. In the Peacock the coeca measure each about one foot in length; in the Partridge about four inches; in the common Fowl and other Phasiunida the coeca are each about one- third the length of the body; they commence by a narrow pedicle, which extends about half their length, and then they begin to dilate into reservoirs for the cliyme {g,fig- 157). In the Ctirsores the coeca again present very different degrees of development. In the Emeu they are narrow and short. In the Cas- sowary they are wholly deficient; while in the Ostrich they are wide and upwards of two feet in length, and their secreting and absorbing parietes are further increased by being pro- duced into a spiral valve, analogous to that which exists in the long cacum of the Ilare and Rabbit. In the Grullutores tlie two coeca are gene- rally short where present; they atUiin their greatest development in this order in the De- moiselle, where the length of each ccecum is five inches; and they are also large in the Fla- mingo, where they each measure nearly four inches, and are dilated at their extremities, presenting with the gizzard, crop, lamellated beak, and webbed feet, the nearest approach to the Anatid<e of the following order. In the Natatures the cceca, where they are jjresent, vary in length according to the nature of the food, being very short in the fish-eating Penguin, Pelecan, Gull, &c. and long in the Duck, Goose, and other vegetable feeding Lamellii'ostres. In the crested Grebe (Podkeps cristatus), Yarrell detected two coeca, each measuring 3-16ths of an inch in length. In the Canada Goose the same indefatigable observer found the coeca each nine inches in length, and in the White-fronted Goose the same parts mea- sured severally thirteen inches. They have the same length in the Black Swan. In the Wild Swan the coeca measure each ten inches in length, while in the tame species they are each fifteen inches long. As digestion may be supposed to go on less- actively in the somnolent, night-flying Owls, than in the high-soaring Diurnal Birds of Prey,, an additional complexity of the alimentary canal for the purpose of retaining the chyme somewhat longer in its passage, might naturally be expected; and the enlarged coeca of the Nocturnal llaptores afford the requisite adjust- ment in this case. For, although the nature of the food is the same in the Owl* as in the Hawk, yet the differences of habit of life call for corresponding differences in the mechanism for its assimilation. In the Rnsurial Order, where the nature of the food differs so widely from that of the Birds of Prey, the principal modification of the digestive apparatus obtains in the more complex structure of the crop, pioventriculus, and above all the gizzard ; but with respect to the cceca, as great differences obtain in their development as in the Raptores. Now these differences are explicable on the same prin- ciple as has just been applied towards the elucidation of the differences in the size of the ccEca in the Raptores. Where the difference in the locomotive powers is so great in the Dove-tribe and the common Fowl; where the circulating and respiratory systems must be so actively exercised to enable the Pigeon to take its daily flights and in some species their an- nual migrations—a less complicated intestinal canal may naturally be supposed with such increased energy in the animal and vital func- tions to do the business of digestion, than in the more sluggish and terrestrial vegetable feeders; and accordingly we find that the requisite complexity of the intestinal canal is obtained by an increased development of the coecal processes in thein, while in the Colum- bidcc the coeca remain as little developed as in the Insessores, which they resemble in powers of flight. If we regard die coeca as excretive organs, their differences in the above orders may be in like manner explained by their relations to the locomotive and respiratory functions. In the Cursored the development of coeca seems to have reference to the quantity of food, and the ease with which it may be obtained, according to the geographical position of the species. In the Cassowary, which is a native * The indigestible parts of the prey of the Owl do not pass into the intestine, but are regularly cast or regurgitated from the stomach ; the length of the cceca cannot, therefore, be accounted for on Macartney's supposition of their being receivers o£ those parts.