BLADDER, NORMAL ANATOMY. 380 part of it as appertaining to tlie posterior region. Anatomicaily we consider tliis incorrect, as tlie vesicula? seniinales are acknowledged by all to be situated on the inferior region, and the cul- de-sac of tlie peritoneum certainly descends between these bodies to within nearly one-half or three-fourths of an inch from the prostate gland. In a practical point of view it is most essential to keep this in mind, because in the operation of recto-vesical paracentesis this mem- brane is endangered, and would certainly be perforated if the trochar were passed through the posterior portion of this region. The sur- face of the bladder which can be opened from the rectum in that operation is comparatively small; it is of a triangular form, nearly equilateral, situated on the anterior part of this region. The base is behind marked by the convex border of the peritoneal cul-de-sac : the apex is at the notch in the base of the prostate gland, and the sides are the vasa deferentia and vesiculse seminales. While all tliese parts are in situ, this space is but small; when, however, the bladder has been removed from the subject, distended, and dissected, this space appears much more ample, because the peritoneum recedes from it in proportion as the attach- ments of the former have been loosened. The bladder presents to our notice three diameters, viz. the transverse, antero-posterior, and the vertical; the latter is also called its axis. In the contracted state the antero-pos- terior can scarcely be considered as existing; but when distended, this and the transverse diameters are nearly equal. In all states, at least in the male, the vertical diameter or axis is the longest; this line leads in the adult from the centre of the upper legion to that of the lower region or fundus : in the foetus and infant it leads from the urachus to the orifice of the urethra; if this line be contrasted with the axis of the trunk or abdomen, and with that of the pelvis, it will be found to correspond very nearly with the direction of the latter, and to pass very obliquely with respect to the former. The axis of the trunk may be regarded as nearly a vertical line, descending through the thorax and abdomen to the pubis, whereas the axis of the pelvis, or rather of its superior orifice, will pass obliquely downwards and backwards, and if produced at either end, it will pierce the recti muscles between the um- bilicus and pubis anteriorly, and the lower end of the sacrum posteriorly. The vertical axis of the bladder in the adult is on a lower plane, but nearly parallel to that line ; in the foetus it is more parallel to that of the trunk, the blad- der at that age being placed more in the ab- domen, and in a more vertical direction than in the adult. The bladder is composed of several mem- branous laminae, called coats or tunics : these are essentially three in number, a serous, a muscular, and a mucous. They are connected together by cellular tissue, the laminae of which being two in number are also considered coats ; so that the whole number of tunics is stated by most writers as five. First, the serous or peritoneal is but a partial coat; it covers those portions only which come in contact with some of the abdominal or pelvic viscera, namely, all the posterior region, and the posterior portions of the lateral, and of the superior and inferior regions ; consequently it is deficient on all the anterior region, and on the anterior part of the superior, and of the lateral and inferior regions. The course of the vasa deferentia marks the extent or the limits of this mem- brane on the bladder; all that portion which is behind and between these tubes is covered by it, except the small triangular area already noticed on the inferior region; all that which is anterior to these vessels is uncovered by this membrane. The peritoneum arrives at this viscus from the fore-part of the rectum in the male, and from that of the uterus in the female, and is continued from its lateral regions to the iliac fossa;, and from its superior fundus to the inside of the recti muscles. This membrane is not very closely attaclied to the subjacent coat; it can be easily separated from it; it is much stronger and more elastic on this organ than on any of the chylopoietic viscera. When the bladder is distended, there is more in pro- portion covered by peritoneum than vvlien it is contracted. The female bladder has more of the peritoneum on its upper fundus, and less on its lower fundus than the male bladder, and in the foetus and infant it is still more extensively covered by this membrane, which then extends over the whole of the upper region and over a small portion of the anterior. As the peritoneum passes from the sides of the bladder to the iliac fossae, it forms folds, improperly called the lateral ligaments, and in passing from the back of the bladder to the rectum or uterus, a similar fold on each side, called the posterior ligaments of the bladder. Between these the cul-de-sac of the peritoneum descends; this in the male subject is the lowest portion of the peritoneal cavity, it extends to within about three inches and a half of the anus : in ascites it has been known to be somewhat lower, and has even been tapped in this situation from the rectum. 2dly. The external or first cellular coat con- nects the serous to the muscular tissue ; it also covers those regions of the bladder where the serous membrane is deficient. In the lateral regions it is more distinct and thick, and is particularly abundant anteriorly between it and the pubes, where it is also very lax, to allow this organ when distended to move freely as it rises out of the pelvis into the abdomen. It contains some but not much adipose matter; towards the inferior and lateral parts it con- tains many bloodvessels, chiefly venous, and a great number of nerves, which can be distinctly traced from thence in all directions over the bladder. Towards the vesiculae it is dense and white, and supports a number of veins; this coat is strong, resisting, and elastic; it binds together, supports, and assists the muscular fibres. The third coat of the bladder is the muscular : this is composed of fasciculi running in dif- ferent directions, and which, though they appear pale and feeble when contrasted with the volun- tary muscles, are yet much stronger and redder