754 CRUSTACEA. The Loemodipods, the Entomostraca, and the Haustellate Crustacea present us with instances of this condition, which calls to mind one of the stages through which the embryo of the higher species, whose development is the most complete, is known to pass. Each segment of the body, when it attains its normal condition, consists of two distinct ele- ments : the central or annular portion, and cer- tain appendices which it supports. The central or annular portion of the seg- ments of the tegumentary skeleton presents, in its most simple state, the appearance of a com- plete ring, but instead of a single piece it is requisite to count in its composition no fewer than eight, as has been demonstrated by the inquiries of M. Audouin on the structure of the thorax of insects,* inquiries the results of which are immediately and almost wholly applicable to the Crustacea so nearly allied to the insects in their organization. Each ring is divided first into two arcs, the one superior or dorsal, the other inferior or ventral, and each arc may present as many as four elementary pieces. Two of these pieces by being united in the me- Fig. 378. t t Tliearetical figure ilhistrating the composition of the tegumentary skeleton of Crustacea. D, Dorsal arc ; t, t, tergal pieces ; e, e, epimeral pieces ; V, ventral arc \ s, s, sternal and cpisternal pieces ; P, insertion of the extremities. dian line constitute the tergum (fg. 378, D) ; the superior arc is completed on either side by two other pieces, known under the name offlancs or epimeral pieces (fig. 378, e). The inferior arc presents in its composition an exact counter- part of the superior. Two of the four pieces into which it may be resolved constitute the sternum, situated in the median line, and are flanked by the two cpisternums. The two arcs thus composed, instead of cohering by their edges, leave a space for the insertion of the lateral appendages or extremities which corre- Fig. 379. Anterior portion of the body of an Amphipoda, t, tergura of the fourth thoracic ring ; e, cpimera of the same ring. spond with them. It is true, indeed, that we have no instance of any single ring which exhi- bits the whole of these pieces distinct from one another; in general several are anchylosed so - * Annales dcs Se. Nat. torn. i. as to appear but one; yet the comparative study of the apparatus in the different members of the class at large, leaves no doubt of their existence severally. Fig. 380. Thorax of an A telecyclus seen from below, a, sternal pieces of the second thoracic ring ; b, episternal piece of the corresponding ring ; c, epi- meral pieces; d, apodemata, which run from the sternum to the epimera, and separate the inser- tions of the extremities; e, antipenultimate ring of the thorax presenting the orifices of the female reproductive organs. It frequently happens that the tegumentary membrane is folded so as to penetrate more or less deeply the interior of the ring among the different organs which fill the cavity. These folds, which may become solid lamina by being impregnated with calcareous salts, have received the name of apodemata, and always proceed from the lines of conjunction of the different pieces, or of the different rings with one another. We shall have occasion to revert to this part of our subject very shortly. P/g.381. Thorax of the Muja Sijiiinadn, shewing the apode- mata which form septa between the sternum and the epimeral pieces of the thoracic rings. The Structure of the ring once investigated in the manner we have done, let us now pro- ceed to inquire in what manner the different rings by the modifications they undergo, and by the divers modes of union they present, give rise to the variety of forms we observe among the Crustaceans. By general consent and usage, three regions are recognized in the bodies of these animals,— a head, a thorax, and an abdomen; and from this custom we shall not depart, although we must avow that these denominations are only derived from very clumsy views, and are calculated to convey false impressions in regard to the nature and composition of the parts so named, by leading the mind to liken them to the grand divisions entitled head, thorax, and abdomen in the Vertebrata. Nevertheless, with the ex- ception of the objectionable names, the division of the body into three regions is not less a fact as regards the organization of the Crustaceans; and the one-and-twenty rings of which, as we have said, their body consists in the type to which every member of the class may be re- ferred, are generally found divided into three