ANIMAL. tract when stimulated, very mucli in tlie same way as the muscular libra among the higher animals. Moreover, the motions by which the radicle constantly seeks the ground or tends downwards and the plumula shoots into the air, that by which some of the higlier phano- gamous plants twist in spirals around objects Dear them, and by which all preserve one side of their leaves towards the light, cannot be held as accidental or merely mechanical acts. Seve- ral genera of the confervas and tremellae even exhibit such remarkable oscillatory movements as have induced different naturalists and phy- siologists to reckon them among the number of the animals. With all this, however, locomotion among vegetables is a very limited power contrasted with the faculty among animals. These exhibit all the automatical motions of vegetables, and have in addition a particular system, the mus- cular, superadded to their organization, by which many of the most important offices of the eco- nomy are performed : not only instrumental in procuring the food by which they are main- tained, but in putting into play the digestive and respiratory apparatus by which the nutri- tive juices are prepared and assimilated, and finally distributed among the higher tribes to every part of the body. The existence of this system is in fact one of the grand characteristics of the more perfect animals. By its means they react upon the external world and modify it according to their wants; by its means they guide their senses and enlarge the sphere of their acquaintance with things beyond them- selves ; by its means they impress the air with the tones and articulate sounds, or execute the signs by which they make known the various states of their affective or moral and intellectual being to one another; finally, by its means the sexes approximate, and those acts take place which lead to the engenderment of new indivi- duals and the continuance of species. The best informed among physiologists, how- ever, do not confine the motions of all animals to the act of the particular tissue we denominate muscular. The polypes and many even of the massy acalephs, to say nothing of the smaller infusories, rotifers, &c. though they move freely, cannot be shown to possess muscular fibres in their constitution; neither indeed can any nervous system, upon which muscular contractions and voluntary motion have always been held dependent, be demonstrated in these creatures. It is consequently probable that the means by which spontaneous motion takes place in these lower animals are peculiar, as indeed we must acknowledge the evident mo- tions which occur under many other circum- stances in the world of organization to be. But let us now turn to the special manifesta- tions of vitality of the two great classes of organized beings we are engaged in examining. These we shall consider in the following order, which is also that we have adopted in contrast- ing the manifestations of activity of unorganized and organized beings,—namely, origin or repro- duction, nutrition or self-preservation, changes VOL. I. undergone during the period of existence, or the uges, and death, or end. OlUGl^f, or the acts by which species are con- tinued.—Vegeiahles and animals alike derive their origin from a birth or genesis accom- plished m two different modes, either without the concurrence of opposite sexes, or with such a concurrence. When organized beings are pro- duced without the concurrence of opposite sexes, the parent either divides into several pieces, each of which becomes an independent individual, or throws out burgeons or buds from its surface, which, being detached in due season exist as self-sufficing types of the spe- cies. When organized beings spring from the concurrence of sexes, again, two sets of organs minister to the generation, the one denominated 7nale, supplying a fecundating matter, the other entitled female, furnishing a germ, which sub- sequently to its impregnation by the male organ undergoes a series of evolutions that end in the issue of an individual resembling the parents, and fitted by its own acts to preserve itself and to continue its kind. Both of these modes of reproduction are common to vegetables and animals. Conferva and polypi alike exhibit the first mode, almost without a difference : buds or sprouts arise from the surface of both; these adhere for a time, acquire a certain size, and are finally detached to become independent beings. Again, the polype divided into several pieces, gives origin in each of these parts to distinct polypi, exactly as the cuttings of vegetables take root and grow into perfect trees, shrubs, &c. The second mode of reproduction—tliat by the concurrence of sexes, or of organs deno- minated respectively male female,—is also exhibited by vegetables and animaV, indiffer- ently ; but there are numerous circumstances distinguishing this manner of reproduction in the two classes of organized beings. In the first place, the sexual organs do not exist from the earliest period, and during the whole course of the life of vegetables, as they do in animals ; the sexual organs, in fact, only occur among vegetables at the time of flowering, and perish whenever the end of their evolution has been accomplished, never serving oftener than once for the generative act. The sexual organs of all animals, again, that live for more than a year, suffice repeatedly for their office; and if they are not required to accomplish this oftener than once in the short-lived tribes, it is probably from no inherent incapacity to serve again, or any destruction of the organs them- selves, but simply because the term of existence of the organism of which they formed a part is complete,— they perish with the system to which they belonged. Another grand though not an invariable dis- tinction between vegetables and animals is the mode in which the sexes, or sexual organs—for these may be taken as synonymous terms—are distributed among the individuals of each class. Speaking generally, it may be said that the sexual organs are as commonly divided be- tween two individuals among animals by whom K