BONE, NORMAL ANATOMY. 432 denominated reticular or cancellated. Such a distinction is useless. There is no line of demarcation between them. At first view a great difference appears to exist between the compact and the spongy substance, but in reality diis is not the case. The degree of condensation is the only dis- tinction. The spongy substance would become compact were the sides of its cells pressed together, and the compact would become spongy or reticular were its texture loosened by en- larging the minute cells which may be detected even in it. Such changes actually occur by the processes of absorption and deposition in growing bones. In the perfect bone the cells are compressed towards its middle to diminish its bulk, and thereby to accommodate the bel- lies of the muscles; and they are expanded at its ends for the purpose of giving security to the joints by a more extensive surface, and allowing more room and power to tendons, &c., whilst the osseous matter in equal lengths of bone, whether at centre or extremity, is of nearly equal weight. The surface of bone in many places presents a striated appearance; and small holes or canals are seen on it especially near the ends of long bones. Simple inspection of dried and divided bone carries us thus far in the knowledge of its structure. But the question still arises, what is the arrangement of the particles which com- pose the compact and spongy tissues ? Is bone laminated, or fibrous, or cellular? 'or does it partake of a texture in which these three varieties of disposition are to be found ? One might imagine there could be no great difficulty in answering these questions, where bone is so readily procured, so easily pre- served, and admits of such varied modes of examination. It can be viewed in the living subject, or after death while fresh, or when prepared by injection, or when all its moisture is removed. It was long ago discovered to consist of an earthy and an animal portion, either of which can be removed, leaving the other undisturbed in its original form. Yet, with all these " appliances and means to boot," anatomists have entertained opposite opinions, and are not yet quite agreed upon the subject. Malpighi, the first author who deserves to be mentioned, thought that bone consisted of fibres and filaments with an intermediate os- seous juice : " constat igitur, ossa coagmentari filamentis, et fibris per longum ductis in rete implicitis, quae afFuso osseo succo ferrumi- nantur in solidani densamque ossis naturam." (Op. Posth. p. 47. Lond. 1636.) He also allowed the existence of lamellae, though he does not put forward its lamellar structure in a prominent way.* Gagliardi adopted his no- * We are told by an interesting writer that Mal- pighi compared these lamella; to the leaves of a book. Could this writer have taken " libri," in the fol- lowing passage, to mean book instead of bark, of which last Malpighi had just been speaking ? " Pari incremento procedit natura in ossiiim aug- mento. Foetus os-a, et cranium precipue, fila- mentorum progressum exhibent; hxc non oranino sibi parallela sunt, et hinc inde breves appendi- tions of a laminated structure, but made additions, from which Malpighi, at a subse- quent period, expressed his dissent. He exa- mined bones long exposed to the weather, or softened by boiling, and concluded that they were formed of plates, (lamellae, squaraulae, bracteae,) held together by processes, in the form of nails, the shape and direction of which he minutely describes.* Clopton Havers found bones composed of plates connected by an osseous juice, with pores which ran, some transversely through the plates, others longitu- dinally through the entire length of the bone.f Leuwenhoeck thought that the filaments of Mal- pighi were hollow tubuli.J Duharael observed concentric layers as in wood.§ Haller says, " Fi- brosum est (os) sive in laminas et fila divisum quae sulcis separantur."|| And Monro lays it down that " bones are composed of a great many plates, each of which is made up of fibres or strings united by smaller fibrils. About the close of the eighteenth century the celebrated Scarpa published his work " De penitiori ossium structura," in which he com- bats former opinions, and asserts that bone is in every part of a cellular or reticular texture. In the first place he shows that we have no proof of its lamellated structure ; the appear- ances produced by calcination, the weather, disease, &c. on which former anatomists relied, proving nothing. Calcination is a rude pro- cess, and acts with different power on the dif- ferent parts of the same bone as they vary in density, and divides them irregularly as it happens to overcome their force of cohesion. The same thing may be said of the weather. And exfoliation takes place in the skin, whose culas filamentosas promunt, quibus invicem col- ligata rete efformant parum a libri natura distans, cujus potiores areze et tota fibrarum compages exsudante osseo succo repletur et tumet." Here we have a tissue of fibres and filaments run- ning in various directions, and forming a net-work not unlike a book !! From this quotation, indeed, it might be thought that our author entirely denied the existence of plates. However, in tlie next sentence he speaks of plana, lamellce, and bractece: " Successivis incrementis nova fibrarum plana su- perinducuntur, quae praeexistenti lamellce osseo agglutinata succo, debilam molem et firmitatem excitant. Patent autem singula plana resolutione facta per longum ossium maceratione; integr;B namque osseae reticulares bracteae evelluntur. In abortibus vero in cranio inchoatum rete evi- denter conspicitur."—Anatmne Plantarum. Op. Omn. p. 19, Lond. 1686. * " Natura prudens ossiculis eas transfixit." The nails were of four kinds for the outer plates, viz. " perpendiculares acuti, perpendiculares ca- pitati, oblique siiuati, et inflexi angulum effor- mantes." The inner plates, forming the spongy substance, differed from the outer, and were of three kinds, the corrugated, the perforated or cri- briform, and the reticulated. These had a system of nails peculiar to them : " alia sine cuspide, plurima ramusculos rescissos efformant, nonnuUa breviora."—Anatome Ossium. Lugd. Bat. 1723. t Observationes de Ossibus, Auctore Cloptone Havers. Amstel. 1731. t Opera Omnia, Lugd. Bat. 1722. § Mem. de I'Academie Roy. des Sciences, 1739, 41, 42, 43. li Opera Minora, torn. ii. Laus. 1767. 1 Monro's Works, Edin. 1781.