T46 REGIONS AND MUSCLES OF THE CRANIUM. of the dipliie so as to effect their obliteration ; but when it is of a more vivid character, the opposite effect of softening (the precursor of ulceration) takes place, and both the outer and inner tables are rendered friable. This fre- quently occurs to a great extent in the mastoidal cells, especially in children; and as, in them, the posterior portion of the meatus auditorius internus possesses an unclosed fissure, the dis- charge which is consequent on the destruction of the cells is allowed an exit, before the meni- brana tympani is destroyed ; although that, as well as the whole of the internal ear, is fre- quently involved in the ravages of the disease— then, however, having passed into another ter- mination of osteitis, viz. ulceration. Adhesion can take place only where the cra- nium has experienced a lesion from a mechani- cal cause; and it is altogether prevented if the solution of continuity be great. The edges of a wound, produced by a cutting instrument penetrating more or less perpendicularly to the surface of the bone, do not approximate; but they are united by an interposing callus as in the case of a common fracture, and the line formed by it is always visible in the same way as the cicatrix which persists after the ad- hesion of soft parts. When a piece of the outer plate is elevated by a cutting instrument passing very obliquely to the surface of the bone, and the scalp is not detached, it will, on being immediately re-applied, unite with the surface from which it has been raised; and, if it be altogether removed, the reparation will be effected in the same way as in other parts, viz. by the granulation and cicatrization of the cut surface. When there is loss of substance of the entire thickness of the bone, whether that loss be pro- duced by mechanical or pathological causes, granulations spring up from the dura mater; the edge of the opening becomes very thin; the surface cicatrizes and produces the appear- ance of a dense fibrous membrane, the circum- ference of which is attached to the margin of the hole and the adjacent pericranium. Caries, which is analogous to ulceration of the soft parts, and is, in fact, an ulcerative ab- sorption of bone, attacks the cranium in com- mon with the rest of the osseous system; but it always first appears on one of the two tables, and not on the diploe, although ultimately the entire thickness is, in some cases, involved. Indeed, when it commences on the inner table, it is only by the extension of the ulcerative pro- cess through the substance of the bone, that the suppurative collection can be emancipated. In this affection the pericranium is sometimes enormously thickened and almost inseparably attached to the rough biscuit-like surface of the bone beneath. In other cases, especially in those in which the ulcerative process has been provoked by mercury, it is m irregular patches; the pericranium is unattached and the denuded surface is of a dark colour. Necrosis, or mortification of the bone, is of frequent occurrence; but not in the way usually implied by that term. Whether it be the sub- stance ofthebone, or merely its outer lamina which is deprived of its vitality, the reparation is not by a fresh deposition of bone, nor is it coeval with the separation of the necrosed part, as in the long bones; but it is a subse- quent action (such as has been already pointed out) which is established to supply the loss. Considerable portions of the frontal and parietal bones may thus be thrown off and the deficiency provided for by the granulations of eitiier the subjacent diploe or the dura mater. Medullary sarcoma sometimes manifests itself in the cranium. It appears to commence in the diploe by a deposition of tuberculous matter, which softens, and which in that state may be mistaken for pus; the inorganic ele- ment is withdrawn ; the accumulation con- tinues and advances towards both tables, which in turn submit to the same change of structure; and,ultimately, a tumour is formed, the capsule of which is constituted, on the one side by the pericranium, and, on the other, by the dura mater. In this tumour the knife detects spicul* of bone interspersed throughout its substance, and the edge of the opening which is left in the skull after maceration, is studded with irregular projecting points. For the Bibliography, see OSSEOUS SYSTEM. (J. Mali/n.) CRANIUM.REGIONSANDMUSCLES OF THE, (Surgical Anatomy.)—If a line be drawn on the skull from the external angular process of the frontal bone, backwards along the rough line on that and the parietal bone, which indicates the attachment of the temporal fascia, be continued downwards and backwards parallel and a little external to the occipito- mastoid suture, and then be carried forwards along the inferior surface of the occipital bone to end just behind the foramen jugale, and a little internal to the stylo-mastoid foramen,—this line, with another similar one on the other side, will include an oblong region which has very natural limits both before and behind. Ante- riorly this region is limited on each side by the anterior margins of the roof of the orbit, in the centre by the line of articulation of the frontal bone with the nasal and superior maxil- lary, posteriorly by the superior curved line of the occipital bone, and on each side by the mastoid process. To this oblong region may be appropriately given the designation occipito- frontul region. The line which thus limits laterally the region just named circumscribes another region which occupies nearly the whole lateral surface of the cranium, and which is called the temporo- parietal region. This region passes into the base of the cranium, and may be limited below and within by a line from the styloid process external to the glenoid cavity, as far as the spheno-maxillary fissure.* * Blandin makes five cranial regions—occipito- frontal, temporal, auricular, mastoid, and the region of the base of the cranium : the last is quite out of tlie reach of the surgeon, and therefore is excluded from consideiation in the present article. Velpeau has three regions,—the frontal, temporo-