BLOOD, MORBID CONDITIONS OF THE. 4-29 cognizable by our senses, or discoverable by those chemical and mechanical means which we are enabled to call to our assistance. There are, however, other morbid conditions the ex- istence of which is equally certain, although their essence is of such a doubtful nature that it defies detection by the coarse instruments and the limited skill which man, in the present state of his knowledge, is enabled to employ. In the exanthematous diseases the blood par- takes of the general disorder of the system. Dr. Home of Edinburgh* succeeded in reproducing measles by inoculation with blood drawn from a superficial vein in one of the patches of eruption which cover the skin in that disorder; and though others have failed in this experi- ment, it has been successfully and often re- peated by Professor Speranza of Mantua. Pregnant females affected with small-pox, or even exposed to its virus, though they may have had the disease, have often imparted it to the foetus in utero,t and syphilis has been communicated in the same manner. Professor Coleman has proved by experiment that the blood of a glandered horse will impart glan- ders if infused into the veins of a healthy animal. Dupuy and Leuret have thus pro- duced malignant pustule ; transfusion of the blood of a mangy dog has produced mange in another; and, according to Dr. Hettwich of Berlin, the blood of a rabid animal will by inocu- lation communicate the disease. A remarkable instance is related by Duhamel, in which a butcher became affected with a malignant pus- tular disease in conseciuence of having put into his mouth the knife with which he had slaugh- tered an over-driven ox. Another individual lost his life from sphacelus of the arm in con- sequence of a wound in the palm of his hand, accidentally inflicted by a bone of the same animal; and in two women who received some drops of its blood, the one on her hand, the other on her check, inflammations ensued which rapidly terminated in gangrene. Although in all these instances there can be no doubt that the blood was in a poisonous state, there is no reason to suppose that this could have been foretold by any thing remark- able in its appearance or sensible qualities. Scarcely more successful in general has been the search for extraneous poisons, which never- theless have appeared from collateral circum- stances to have entered the circulation, or have even been purposely introduced into it. Dr.Chris- tisonj has cited a sufficient number of cases where poisons swallowed have been afterwards found in the blood, to shew that we must not infer their absence from our inability in most cases to abstract them in a separate form ; and he further demonstrates how erroneous such an inference might be by stating that Dr. Coindet and himself, after destroying a dog in thirty seconds by injecting 85 grains of oxalic acid into the femoral vein, endeavoured in vain to * Duncan's Medical Commentaries, vol. xix. p. 213. + Edinb. Med. and Surg. Journ. for April 1807, Med.-Chir. Trans, vol. i. p. 272. t Christison on Poisons, p. 14. detect any portion of it in the blood of the iliac vein and vena cava collected immediately after death, although it is highly improbable that it could have passed off' by any of the secretions in so short a time. The chief obstacles by which we are opposed in such researches are minuteness of quantity and decomposition. When only a few grains of a poison are absorbed, and thence diffused not only through the whole mass of circulating blood, but likewise among all the various tissues and solids of the body, being moreover carried off' by the kidneys, perhaps nearly as fast as they enter by the circulation, it cannot be matter of surprise, however delicate our tests may be, that they are seldom to be met with even where still retaining their chemical characters. When we consider, however, that reagents which produce a change of properties in those bodies with which they are brought in contact do probably themselves undergo a cor- responding change, we shall readily perceive that our difficulties will be still further in- creased on this account. The products of diseased action, and espe- cially pus, have been often met with, as well in the arteries and veins, as in the cavities of the heart ; but it yet remains a matter of doubt whether these are actually formed in the blood, or whether, as seems to me more probable, they are not rather carried into the circulation from other parts in a degenerate or diseased state, or are the products of inflammation in the lining membrane of the bloodvessels them- selves. With respect to those cases where worms and insects are said to have appeared in the blood, whereof many are recorded, some are referrible to the head of false polypi, the shape of which has misled the observer, others to deception or the accidental presence of insects or their ova in the receiving vessel; and though we cannot deny the possibility that parasitical animals may exist in the fluids as well as in the closed cavities and solids of the body, yet we require better evidence than has yet been ad- duced to confirm our belief in the existence of entozoa in the circulating current. In a recent case brought forward by Mr. Bushnan,* and learnedly illustrated by that gentleman, it would, I confess, have carried more conviction to my mind, had he himself watched the blood from the moment of its quitting the vein until the larvcE which he describes were seen swim- ming in its serum. In such extraordinary cases the mind is not satisfied with anything short of moral certainty. From what has been set forth in the fore- going pages, it will be perceived that our knowledge on the subject discussed m them yet remains extremely defective. We learn, indeed, that under the existence of disease the diff'erent constituents of the blood are liable to morbid increase or diminution as well as to certain alterations in their sensible qua- lities, hitherto less accurately examined ; that * History of a case in which animals were found in blood, &c.