419 BLOOD, MORBID CONDITIONS OF THE. tractility, so as to contain a large portion of fluid, or from its holding entangled among its meshes an unusual number of red particles; but it will often also arise from there being a more than ordinary quantity of fibrine present, in which case it will be firm and contractile as well as voluminous. Blood thus circumstanced is said to be rich and thick, and is generally met with in those whose complaints are con- nected with a plethoric habit. A deficiency in the proportion of fibrine is likewise not unfrequent among those who suffer from complaints of debility, or who have lost much blood by natural or artificial depletions. In this case the clot is small, and has but little contractile power. It is, I conceive, a possible case, that the fibrine may separate imperfectly or not at all, in consequence of an augmented proportion of salts, which out of the body we know to be capable of suspending coagulation altogether. The continued use of alkaline remedies will probably tend to produce alike effect. Fibrine coagulates the more speedily in porportion as the circulating and nervous sys- tems become more feeble. The experiment has been repeatedly made with animals that are killed by bleedintr, and the last por- tions of blood invariably coagulate soonest. " The principle of the blood's speedy con- cretion in debility is important in a curative point of view. The first natural check to hae- morrhage is known to be the formation of a clot on the mouth of the vessel. If the longer the hamorihage the less had been the disposition to form such a clot, the wounded on the field of battle, and those injured by common accidents, who cannot promptly procure the aid of a surgeon, must inevitably have perished."* One of the most remarkable and frequent de- viations from the normal condition of blood removed from the body by venesection, is the occurrence of the buffy coat, which is a layer of fibrine occupying the surface of the crassa- mentum. The blood, whilst circulating within its vessels, consists, as I have already remarked, of a fluid which I have elsewhere ventured to call lifjiwr sanguinis, and of insoluble red par- ticles. These being in constant motion are uniformly diffused throughout this liquor; but their specific gravity being much greater than that of the medium in which they are sus- pended, they have a tendency to gravitate when- ever that motion ceases. In healthy blood the fibrine coagulates so quickly that the red par- ticles have not time to subside, so as to leave any portion of the liquor entirely free from them. By protracted fluidity this result is effected; the red particles do then gravitate to a greater or less depth before the liquor separates into two parts. A general coagulation of the fibrine at length occurs, and a clot is formed. That part of it through which the red particles had fallen becomes a layer of fibrine free from colour, and merely having some serum mecha- nically retained in its meshes, while the sub- jacent portion is of intense depth of shade, * Thackrah, p. 188. especially at the bottom, and of less than ordi- nary cohesion. In extreme cases, such an abundance of red particles reaches the bottom of the vessel that they are there found in a state of fluidity. The buffed layer sometimes assumes a cupped form, which is clearly owing to unequal contraction. The upper surface being freer from intervening red particles, con- tracts more powerfully than the under, and a concavity of the surface is the necessary con- sequence. Where, however, the contraction is weaker, the weight of the subjacent red clot, which is one and the same mass with the upper colourless portion, weighs this down, and keeps it in a horizontal pos.tion. nie crassamentum of arterial as well as of venous blood has frequently been observed to exhibit a buffy coat. It is rarely seen in blood extracted by cupping-glasses, and never in that pressed from leeches. It occurs in the lower animals, and is observed as frequently in the horse as in the human subject; indeed, from the quantity of blood usually drawn from that anima', it is still more strikingly apparent, being occasionally several inches thick. It has been denied that the cupped appearance is ever met with in the blood of the horse; but if this be received into a sufficiently small vessel, it will be in some instances as complete as in blood taken from the human subject. There are va- rieties in the appearance of the buffed coat which it is worth while to notice. It is gene- rally of a firm uniform consistence, and of a light yellow or buff colour, whence its name. Sometimes, however, it is of a more spongy texture, and of a white or bluish, and more transparent hue. Two layers of buflf are occa- sionally seen; the upper soft or friable, the in- ferior more compact. " There is a difference," says Sir Gilbert Blane, " in the appearance of the blood when sizy, perhaps not sufficiently insisted on by practical writers; for though there should even be a very thick buff", yet if the surface is flat, and the crassamentum tender, no great inflammation is indicated in com- parison of that state of the blood wherein the surface is cupped, the crassamentum contracted so as to form the appearance of a large pro- portion of serum, and where it feels firm and tenacious, though perhaps but thinly covered with buff."* From the examination of several specimens of buffed blood, I was at one time led to be- lieve that its serum was always deficient in its due proportion of albumen; but this I have since found not to be the case, having met with blood thickly buflfed, the serum of which at 60° Fahr. had a specific gravity of only 1-024, and with another specimen where the layer of fibrine was equally thick, of which, at the same temperature, the serum had a spe- cific gravity of 1 040. Dr. John Davy examined the specific gravity of buffed blood in eleven cases. In five of them in which the buffy coat was slight, the specific gravities were 1-047, 1-051, 1-054, 1-055, 1-054; in five others in which the buffy coat was moderately thick, the Blane ou the Diseases of Seamen, note to page 2 E 2