272 AVES. water it is in general remarkably elongated, whether they support themselves on the surface by means of short and strong natatory feet, as in the Swan, or wade into rivers and marshes on elevated stilts, as in the Crane, &c. The articular surfaces of the bodies of the cervical vertebra;, like those of the dorsal series above mentioned, are concave in one direction and convex in the other, so as to lock into each other, and in such a manner that the superior vertebrae move more freely forwards, the middle ones backwards, while the inferior ones again bend forwards; producing the ordinary sigmoid curve observable in the neck of the bird. This mechanism is most readily seen in the long-necked waders which live on fish and seize their prey by darting the bill with sudden velocity into the water. In the common Heron, for example, (Ardea chmxa) the head can be bent forward on the atlas or first vertebra, the first upon the second in tlie same direction, and so on to the sixth, between which and the fifth the forward inflection is the greatest; while in the opposite direction these vertebrse can only be brought into a straight line. From the sixth cervical vertebra to the thirteenth the neck can only be bent backwards; while in the opposite direction it is also arrested at a straight line. From the fourteenth to the eighteenth the articular surfaces again allow of the forward inflection, but also limit the opposite motion to the straight line. Two transverse processes are ordinarily con- tinued from the anterior part of the bodies of the cervical vertebi-se : the inter-space of these is filled up externally to the vertebral artery by a rudimentary styliform rib, which is sepa- rated in the young bird, but afterwards anchy- losed, and directed backwards parallel to the body of the vertebrae. These processes give attachment to numerous muscles of the neck, and being, with the transverse processes, more strongly developed in the rapacious birds, give a greater breadth to the cervical region in that order. The superior spinous processes are but feebly developed ; they are most distinct on the vertebrae at the two extremities of the cervical portion of the spine. Inferior spinous processes are also found on the vertebrae at the commencement and termination of the neck, but are wanting m a great proportion of the intermediate cervical vertebrae. The atlas is a simple ring. In general it is articulated with the occipital tubercle by a single concave facet on the body ; but in the Penguin and Ostrich there are two other facets, continuous with the middle one, but corresponding with the anterior articulating pro- cesses of the rest of the vertebras and applied to the condyloid portions of the occipital bone, while the middle facet is articulated to the ba- silar portion as in other birds. The body of the dentata is joined to the atlas by a single synovial capsule, its odontoid process is tfed down by a strong transverse ligament stretched .above it, and by a longitudinal one extending hajn its extremity to the posterior part of the occipital condyle. In the articulations of the bodies of the remaining cervical vertebrae a moveable inter-articular cartilage is found in- closed between reduplications of the synovial membrane, as in the joint of the lower jaw in mammalia. The articulations of the oblique processes have no peculiarities worthy of no- tice. A remarkable difference is found in the diameter of the spinal canal contained in the cervical vertebrae. If, e. g. the sixth cervical vertebra of a Stork be sawed down verti- cally, the antero-posterior diameter is greatest in the middle, least at the ends; but if it be sawed lengthwise horizontally, the transverse diameter is the reverse, being narrowest at the centre and widest at the ends. In the Ostrich, the Swan, and many other birds the spinal canal is widened in every direction at the extremities of the vertebrae; and on the dor- sal or posterior aspect of the spine, the canal remains open for some extent in the intervals of the vertebrae, the cord being there protected only by membrane and the elastic ligaments which connect the roots of the spinous pro- cesses together. The final purpose of this structure has been ably illustrated by Mr. Earle in the Philosophical Transactions, (1822, p. 276.) where he shews that it is adapted to pre- vent a compression of the spinal cord during the varied and extensive inflections of the neck. The vertebrae of the different regions of the spine bear a different proportion to each other in respect to number among birds, firom what we observe in the mammalia and reptilia. The cervical portion in this class is generally com- posed of a much greater number of vertebrae than any of the other divisions of the spine; in this respect the fossil reptilian genus called Plesiosaurus alone resembles the bird. This singular animal was an inhabitant of the waters, and it is interesting to observe that the peculiarity which distinguishes it, viz. the great length of neck, is chiefly characteristic of the Aves aquaticte of Nitzsch. In the Gral- latores the length of the neck is determined by the height of the legs : in the Natatores it is necessary for the purpose of obtaining their food while swimming the waters. The dorsal vertebrjE are usually less numerous than in mammalia. The caudal vertebrae are subject to few variations; they never project in the form of a tail, but are most numerous in those birds which make the greatest use of the tail- feathers, as in the Swallows, to direct their rapid flight, and in the Woodpeckers, where they serve as a prop or climbing pole. The following table, which, with some cor- rections, is extracted from Cuvier's Lefons d'Anatomie Comparee, exhibits the variety that exists with respect to the number of ver- tebrae in different species of birds. Table of the number of vertebra in birds. Order. Raptores Vertebra. Species. Cervical. Dorsal. Sacral. Caadal. Vulture 13 7 11 7 Eagle 13 8 11 8 Osprey 14 8 11 7 Sparrow-hawk.. 11 8 11 8