BLOOD. 404 ladies des voies urinaires, 8vo. Paris, 1791. Muc- beatk on affections of the iiiinary organs among ne- groes, in Edinb. Med. Comment. Dec.2, vol.X. 1798. Desault, Des maladies des voies urinaires (aBichat Ed.) 8vo. Paris, 1799. Sherwen on diseased and contracted urinary bladder, 8vo. Lond.1799. Walter, Einige Krankheiten der Nieren und Harnblase un-- tersucht, 4to. Berl. 1800. Bell, Engravings of morbid parts, fol. Lond. 1803. Schmidt, Ueber derj. Krank. der Harnblase, &c. 8vo. Wien. 1806. Soem- mering, Ueber t'ddtlichen Krankheiten der Harn- blase, 4to. Frft. a M. 1809. Nauclie, Des mal. de la vessie, &c. 8vo. Paris, 1810. Wadd, Cases of diseased bladder, Lond. 1815. HowsJiip on the diseases of the urinary cgans, 8vo. Londl 1816. Coqiiin du Sfartel, Vice de conformation des voies urinaires, &c., in Bullet, de la Soc. Med. d'Emulat. Juin 1824. Lallemand, Sur les malad. des organes genito-urinaires, 8vo. Paris, 1824. Brodie, Lectures on the diseases of the urinary organs, &c. 8vo. Lond. 1834. * « * * Be- thardiru), De hasmoirhoid. vesica;, ' Rost. 1754 (Kec. in Haller Disp. Pathol, t. vii.). Liidwig, De ischuria ex tumoribus vesicae, 4to. Lips. 1767, in Ej. Advers. Med. vol. ;;.**** Salzmanu, De hernia vesicae urinaria. Argent. 1732 (Rec. in Haller Disp. Chir. t. iii.) Camper, De vesicse herniis, in Ej. Demonst. Anat. Pathol, lib. ii. Sandifort, De hernia vesicte, in Ej. Obs. Anat. Pathol, lib. i. Iloose, De nativo vesicas urin. inversai prolapsu, 4to. Gotting. 1793. Baillie, Remarkable deviation from the natural structure in the urinary bladder, &c.. Transactions of a Society for the Improvement of Medical and Chi- rurgical Knowledge, vol. i. Goeckel, De vesica spongiosa extra abdomen posita, Miscel. .4cad. Nat. Curios. Dec. 2, A. 5. Raiffer, Diss, sur la cysto- cele ou hcrnie de la vessie urinaire, 4to. Paris, 1805. Beugin, Diss, sur la cystocele, 4to. Paris. 1805. Isjnjlamm, Beschreibung, &c. angebornen, vorgefallenen, ungestUlpten Harnblase, &c. 8vo. Dorpat. 1806. F«c/is, Hist. anat. prolapsus nativi vesiciE nriniiriae inversae, 4to. Jens, 1813. * * * Cases of double bladder, by Bordenave, in Mem. tie Chirurg. t. ii. ; by Lebenwaldt, in Miscell. Acad. Nat. Curios. Dec. 2, A. 8, 1689; by Tenon, in Mem. de Paris, A. 1768; by Biissiere, in Phil. Trans. 1701.* * * * Cases of absence of the bladder, by Preuss, in Miscel. Ac. Nat. Cur. Dec. 2, An. 7 ; by Rengger, in Museum der Heilkunde, B. 2 ; by Labmirdette, in Sedillot's Rec. Period, t. xxxii. Cases of rupture of the bladder, by J. Johnstone, in Mem. of the Med. Soc. of London, vol. iii. ; by Kundmunn, in Acta Acad. Nat. Curios, vol. vii.; by Montagu, in Med. Communications, vol. ii.; by Zuinger, in Ephem. Nat. Curios. Cent. 7 et 8; by Bercfielmann, in Acta Hassica, A. 1771 ; by Berner, in Ephem. Nat. Curios. Cent. 9 et 10; by Schlich- tung, in Acta Ac. Nat. Curios, vol. vi. ; by Hey, in Med. Obs. by a Soc. of Phys. vol. iv.; by Lynn, in the same v»ork, vol. iv. ; by Sedillot, in Kec. Period, t. i.; and by Cusack, in Dub. Hosp. Rep. vol. ii. (Benjamin Phillips.) BLOOD, (Gr. alji^a. Lat. sanguis. Ft. sang. Germ. Blut. lta\. sangue). This is the title given to the peculiar fluid wliich carries into the living tissues of animals tlie materials necessary to the nutritive processes going on within them. The physical qualities of tliis fluid vary extremely ; among almost all the lower animals it is so far from resembling what we are accus- tomed to regard as essential to the blood in man and the vertebrata generally, that its nature is at first sight apt to be mistaken, and we cannot be surprised that the inferior tribes of creation should have been long supposed to be without blood. In tlie mammalia, birds, reptfles, fishes, and several of the annelida, the blood is of a red colour ; among the whole of the invertebrjita, a few of the annelida excepted, it is, on the contrary, nearly colourless; fre- quently it has a decidedly blue tint, and in many instances it is bluish, greenish, or yel- lowish. A celebrated chemist (Berzelius) has lately stated that the common fly (one of the insecta) had red blood in the head, and colour- less blood in the other parts of its body. It is true, indeed, that if the head of one of these insects be crushed, a reddish fluid is forced out; but this is not blood; it proceeds from the eyes of the insect, whose blood, in the head as elsewhere, and among all the other species of the genus, as well as among the arach- nida, Crustacea, and moUusca, is almost co- lourless. From these differences in the appearance of the nutrient fluid, the animal kingdom has been divided into animals having red blood and animals having white blood. But these modifications of colour are not perhaps of so much consequence as has commonly been be- lieved, for they are met with among animals having in all other respects tlie most striking analogy one with another, as has already been seen in our particular article on the Anne- lida. The blood is an opaque, thickish fluid, of a specific gravity greater than that of water. In man its density varies from 1,052 to 1,057. It has a saline and rather sickly taste, and it diflfuses a peculiar odour, which varies somewhat in different tribes, and occasionally in the different sexes of the same species. In all the vertebrata, it is, as we have said, red ; but the shade of this colour varies in different animals, as it is familiarly known to do in the same animal, according as it is ex- amined in its course to the tissues which it is destined to supply with nourishment, or after it has already traversed these, and is returning to the centre of the circulation ; tlie colour, how- ever, may be stated to be generally deep. Examined by the naked eye, the blood ap- pears to be perfectly fluid and homogeneous; but if It be spread in a very thin stratum upon the object plate of a microscope, and viewed under a lens having a magnifying power of between 200 and 300, it will be seen to con- sist of two distinct and heterogeneous parts, viz. a transparent yellowish watery fluid, and a number of solid corpuscles, of extreme mi- nuteness, suspended in this fluid. To the fluid portion, the name serum is given; the minute corpuscles are spoken of as the globules of' the blood. The discovery of the globules of the blood is almost contemporaneous with that of the microscope; it is due to Malpighi and to Leuwenhoeck. A considerable number of ob- servers have since engaged in the micro- scopical study of the blood; but it is to Hew- son and to the Messrs. Prevost and Dumas that science is indebted for the most important facts