375 BILE. ties of allmmen ; yet neither solution of cono- sive sublimate, nor of ierrocyanale of polassa, which are such delicate tests of that proximate animal principle in other cases, enables us to detect it in the origmal bile. VV hen alcohol is added to bile which has been evaporated nearly to dryness, it acquires, when filtered off, a brownish green colour and bitter taste ; when evaporated, it leaves a residue which is almoAt totally soluble in water; and in this aqueous solution, dilute sulphuric acid slowly tluows down a grey substance, which a[)pears to be a compound of the acid and the bitter principle of the bile; when it has been waslied with water (in which it is not soluble), it dissolves in alcohol, and if the sulphuric acid be then separated from it by carbonate of baryta and filtration, the filtered solution leaves on evapo- ration a green, transparent, bitter residue, which appears to be the characteristic princi- ple of the bile, and which Beizelius calls Gul- IcnUolf'. As thus obtained, it is not quite free from foreign matters, and ether digested upon it takes up a little fatty matter; indeed when bile, concentrated by evaporation, is agitated with ether, and the latter, after having separated upon the surface, is poured oft'and evaporated, it always leaves traces of a fatty substance, probably identical with cholesterine. The pu- rified bitter residue, to which we have just adverted, is ap])arently the picromcl of Tlienard; it has a bitter, pun-eut, and sweetish taste, is inflammable, deliquescent, soluble in water and alcohol, but insoluble in ether; its solu- tion IS precipitated by many acids, (not by acetic or phosphoric,) and the precipitate is neaily insoluble in water, of a greenish colour, resinous appearance, and fusible at 212". This precipitate (consisting of picromel combined with die acid used to dirow it down) dissolves in alcohol, and is again thrown down by water: it dissolves in solution of acetate of potash, the alcali of which combines with the acid of the precipitate, whilst the acetic acid unites to the |)icromel to form a soluble acetate. Picromel dissolves in weak alcaline solutions apparently without decomposition. It will be seen from many of the above cha- racters, that picromel (by which we mean Ber- zelius's Galknstoff) h-ds probably been mistaken for albumen, and that it is not improbable that the only true albuminous part of the bile may be in that equivocal state which is often called mucus, and which is especially distinguished by being precipitable by acetic acid. Jierze- lius has suggested an ana'ogy between picromel and the peculiar saccharine matter which is contained in liquorice-root; and in many re- spects their chemical properties are identical. In the preceding statement, drawn princi- pally from Beizelius, vve have endeavoured to give the simplest view of the analysis of the bile; namely, the separation of its muco-albu- men by acetic acid or alcohol, and of its jiicromel, by precipitation with acids and subsequent decomposition of the precipitate by carbonated baryte or alcali; its saline contents appear closely to resemble those of the serum of the blood ; like which it has an alcaline reaction, due to sodii. Wo have also iselected such ex- periments, as, with us, have invariably suc- ceeded: the following results, therefore, of the analysis of the bile, as given by Berzelius, will now be intelligible. Water 90.44 Picromel, (Gallenstoff,) inclu- ding fat 8.00 Mucus of the gall-bladder .. O.ao Extractive, common salt, and lactate of soda 0.74 Soda 0.4 1 Phosphate of soda and lime and traces of a substance insolu- ble in alcohol 0.11 100. The details of the other analyses of the bile as given by the authorities to which we have referred above, would be unintelligible if abridged, and are too voluminous, and too ex- clusively chemical, to be inserted here; and moreover, we have generally failed in arriving at satisfactory conclusions in our endeavours at a repetition of the various analytical operations which are described; we must therefore rest satisfied with giving, in a condensed form, a general statement of their results. According to Thenard, /tumiin bile contains, water 90.90 ; yellow bitter resin 3.73; yellow matter gene- rally diffused through the bile (mucus and colour- ingmatter?) 0.18 to 0.90;albumen 3.82 ; soda, by which the resin is dissolved, 0.31; phos- phate, sulphate, and muriate of soda, phosphate of lime, and oxide of iron, 0.41. Tiedemann and Gmelin give the following as the compo- nents of human bile: 1. fat; 2. brown resin; 3. sweet principle of bile; 4. salivary matter; 5. mucus; 6. gall-brown (colouring matter?); 7. oleic acid, salts, and minute quantities of other substances. Frommherz and 'Jugert* have arrived at yet more complicated results: namely, 1. fat; 2. resin ; 3. sweet principle ; 4. osrna- zome; 5. salivary matter (Speichelstoff); 6. ca- seuni; 7. mucus; 8. margaric and other fatty acids, with phosphate, muriate, and sulphate of soda and potash; and carbonate, phosphate, and sulphate of lime. The above, and other chemists, have published analyses of bile, taken after death in various diseases, but they present nothing very important. Tiedemann and Gine- lin's elaborate analysis of ox-gull deserves the perusal of all chemists concerned in such in- quiries : it contains, according to L. Gmelin,t a substance not to be found in any other bile, and which he has called Taurin or Galleiiaxpa- ragin: it may be obtained as follows:—add muriatic acid to ox-gall and filter; after a few days a fatty matter appears, which is separated by filtration; the tillered liquid is evaporated to a small bulk, when it separates into two parts, a resinous mass and a sour fluid : the latter, upon further evaporation, yields more resinous matter, and at length crystals of coai- * M. Schweigger's Journal, vol. 1. p. 8. t L. Giiiclin, Handbuch dcr Thcoretisclicn Clic- mic, ii. 1012. I'-raukfurt, 1829.