DEATH. 804 apparent cessation. The case of Colonel Townshend, related by Cheyne,* is too well known to need recital here. Perhaps the most unequivocal examples of their suspension are certain cases on record of restoration after sub- mersion for several minutes. In some-of these there is good reason to believe that there was no genuine asphyxia, but that syncope took place immediately, and consequently that there was no stagnation of blood in the extremities of the pulmonary arteries. As to the alleged cases of persons who have been said to lie many hours and even days without pulse or breathing, we do not hesitate to express a belief that the observers were deceived, and that in reality both these functions were per- formed, but in so low a degree as to escape detection, just as hybernating animals were supposed to be, during their torpor, in the pre- dicament alluded to, until the researches of Dr. M. Hall proved that these animals do actually respire and maintain their circulation, though in a much less degree than when awake. It will be the duty of the practitioner to adopt every method within his reach of ascertaining the actual condition of these func- tions; but he must remember that they are often inefficient and even fallacious. Thus, with regard to the common modes of trying the respiration by a mirror, or by light downy bodies placed near the mouth and nostrils, it is obvious that the former may retain its clearness, because the halitus is not in suf- ficient quantity to stain it, or may be dimmed by exhalations from the air-passages which are not the products of respiration; and that the downy substances may be stirred by currents of air, or remain unmoved by the trivial ex- change which takes place between the external atmosphere and the air in the chest of the person examined. Winslow's test of a vessel full of water placed on the lowest part of the thorax is of little utility, since we know that the diaphragm may be the only muscle em- ployed in expanding the chest. As to the circulation, it may continue though no pul- sation can be felt over the arteries or the car- diac region, and no sound be perceptible by auscultation mediate or immediate. Few prac- titioners would be willing to apply M. Fou- bert's test, to wit, that of making an incision in one of the intercostal spaces, and feeling the heart with the finger! The loss of irritability in the muscular fibres is of far greater consequence than eitiier of the foregoing signs. It may be present when re- covery is out of the question, but its absence is quite conclusive. Galvanism affords a cer- tain and ready method of detecting this pro- perty. According to the researches of Nystenf irritability is first extinguished in the left ven- tricle ; after forty-five minutes it has left the intestines and stomach ; a little later the blad- der; after an hour the right ventricle ; after an hour and a half the oesophagus; after an hour ' English Malady, page 307. t Kecheiches de Physiologic et de Chimic Pa- thologique. and three quarters the iris. It next takes leave of the muscles of the trunk, then the lower and upper extremities, and lastly the right auricle. The duration of contractility is short- ened by a warm and humid state of the at- mosphere, by ammoniacal gas, carbonic acid, and sulphuretted hydrogen. It is unaffected by carburetted hydrogen, chlorine, and sulphur- ous acid ; nor is it found diminished in cases of asphyxia by strangulation and immersion. The annihilation of that particular kind of contractility of tissue, which is equally dis- tinct from muscular contractility, imtability, and elasticity, is one of the surest signs of death. We see it wanting in the collapsed edges of a wound which has been inflicted on the skin of a dead body, as contrasted with the gaping appearance of a similar lesion made during life. The loss of animal heat, though an invariable occurrence at some period after death, is not unfrequently noticed in disease. livery prac- titioner must have met with it in hysterical cases; and it is a matter of notorious obser- vation in cholera. On the other hand we have known tlie heat of the body not only continue but even return at a considerable period after death has unequivocally taken place; a fact attributable either to chemical actions of a cadaveric description, or to the continuance of the processes which developed caloric during life. The mean time requisite for the com- plete cooling of the body is iifteen or twenty hours; but tlie process is modified by a great variety of circumstances. It is slower after acute than chronic maladies, but is very con- siderably retarded in asphyxial cases, except those occasioned by submersion. Calorification is not the only function that may survive what is commonly called death ; thus the rectum and bladder have been known very frequently to discharge their contents after death ; and, which is still more remark- able, parturition has taken place under such circumstances. The continuance of secretion, absorption, and nutrition has been argued from the exhalation of serous fluids in some parts, their disappearance in others, and the alleged growth of hair. Some of these facts are more rationally explained on such physical principles as are involved in transudation, endosmose, penetration, &c. &c.; as to the growth of hair, there is great reason to doubt the accuracy of the testimonies to the fact. Haller very justly observes that shrinking of the skin would produce an apparent elongation of the beard, which is the part upon which the observation alluded to has been most fre- quently made. 2. The first alterations in the physical pro- perties of the solids after death are softness and flexibility, to which succeed sooner or later the opposite conditions of firmness and rigi- dity. The softness or want of elasticity may be owing partly to differences in the distri- bution of the fluids in the tissues, and partly to changes in the tissue itself. The flattening of those parts upon which the weight of the body rests, the effect of deficient elasticity,