797 DEATH. more sensible of the loss of blood, the nervous symptoms, viz. vertigo and leipothyinia, ap- pear, and immediately afterwards the pulse falls and becomes imperceptible. In corro- boration of this fact we might at first be inclined to mention that a diminution of the quantity of the blood, so far from depressing the circulation, often appears to excite it violently, as in what has been denominated h<emorrluigic reuct'wn; but in such instances analogous effects have been also witnessed in the cerebral functions, namely, delirium and extreme sensibility, &c. On the whole we may conclude with regard to both these sys- tems that the depressing effect of ha?morrhage depends rather upon the suddenness of the change, than upon the absolute diminution of the quantity of the fluid. 7. Syncope hi/ pokom.—Some substances depress the action of the heart in the man- ner to which we had occasion to refer when speaking of syncope by mechanical injuries of the tissues generally. Of this kind are the mineral acids, oxalic acid, and the pure alkalies. They produce death, when taken in certain quantities, by means of that de- pression of the circulation which follows the destruction of the parts to which tliey are applied. In smaller quantities they may be more remotely fatal by exciting disease, gastro-enteritis for instance. One of the sub- stances mentioned, viz. oxalic ; acid, may in- duce direct depression of the circulation, un- attended by cerebral affection, even when its chemical effect upon the stomach is prevented by dilution. In this form it must be classed- with a large collection of substances which in certain doses subdue the moving powers of the circulation, without any previous coma, without any alteration of the tissues, and without any gastric irritation; such are arse- nic in large quantities, tobacco, digitalis, and most of the animal poisons. To the same class belong those malarious and contagious poisons which occasionally induce fatal syn- cope before any of their ordinary effects upon the general functions; we scarcely need to mention cholera, malignant typhus, plague, scarlatina, &c. The narcotic substances mani- festly act first upon the cerebro-spinal .system ; synco])e follows either with or without as- phyxia. Those which act rapidly appear to strike tiie circulation before asphyxia has had time to transpire; we may instance hydro- cyanic acid, essential oil of almonds,large doses of opium and of alcohol, certain gases, par- ticularly sulphuretted hydrogen and cyanogen. 8. Si/ncope by cold and lightning.—It is not clear whether these outward agents arrest the circulation through their influence upon the nervous system, or by directly paralysing the irritability of the fibres of the heart. 9. Syncope by inanition.—In cases of this description it is probable that the failure of the heart's action is a compound result of the prostration of the nervous system, and of the diminution of the proper stimulus of the circulation. 10. Syncope by disease.—All fatal maladies must terminate in cessation of the heart'sa c- tion, but we limit the present category to those cases in which this event is unpreceded by asphyxia. The others have been hinted at under the head of syncope by asphyxia. The diseases now under consideration may, we think, be conveniently arranged as follows ;— I. Those which stop the motion of the heart by obstructing its mechanism, e. i;. collections of fluid in the pericardium, lesions of the val- vular apparatus ; accumulation of fat, &c.; or by diminishing the contractility of the fibres, e.g. atrophy, or degeneration of the muscular substance ;* or by perturbing in some unex- plained manner the nervous influence, e. g- the functional form of angina pectoris. 2. Those which are attended with haemorrhage, e. g. aneurisms, and diseases of mucous surfaces. 3. Those which induce excessive and long-con- tinued discharges. Thus fatal syncope has sud- denly terminated a fitof diarrhoea; but it must be borne in mind that in such instances the power of the circulation had previously been greatly enfeebled either by deterioration of the blood, or by causes acting on the innervation of the heart, or by the existence of irritation in some part of the system. 4. Diseases implicating the cerebro-spinal organs. Some of these ope- rate in the same manner as those accidental injuries which ])roduce concussion, and which have been already adverted to. Thus in that species of apoplexy which terminates instan- taneously, {apopUxie fuudroyanfe of French authors.) the sanguineous extravasation appears to have the same effect as a mechanical shock to tlie whole nervous mass. The more common form of apoplexy extinguishes life by impeding the respiratory movements. We have more than once known cases of structural disease of the brain terminate by sudden syncope, but have learned nothing from the necroscopy capable of explaining why the fatal occurrence took place at the precise time when it did, rather than at any other moment in the period during wliich the disease had existed; though it was easy to conceive that a lesion of this description must have been competent at any time to produce such changes in the cere- bral circulation as would induce the result in question. 5. Diseases attended with what has been vaguely called irritation, either short and intense, or moderate but long-continued. This irritation consists sometimes of inflam- mation and its sequela:, and sometimes of spe- cific structural alterations. A good illustration of the former of these is afforded by peritonitis, which frequently cuts off the patient by sub- duing the action of the heart, long before this effect could transpire from derangements of the organs contiguous to the seat of disease. Still more remarkable in this point of view are the effects of acute inflammation of a synovial capsule. It is true that these affections are accompanied by violent pain, which might be said in common language to exhaust the powers of the system, or in stricter phrase, to * See Mr. Chevalier's interesting cases of suddea death in tlie Med. Ch. Trans, vol. i.