636 CILIA. same regular order for a time, and in some animals for a long time, after death or sepa- lation from the body; and it is remarkable, although perhaps we are not warranted by ob- servation to lay It down as a general rule, that there is a correspondence in the duration of the ciliary motion after death and the persistence of muscular irritability. In the Tortoise, for instance, in which it is well known that the irri- tability of the heart and other muscles endures remarkably long after death, the ciliary motion is also of extremely long continuance ; while in Mammalia and Birds, the ciliary motion and muscular irritability are both comparatively soon extinguished. On the whole, therefore, without laying any stress on the alleged discovery of a muscular apparatus by Ehrenberg and the other authors mentioned, we may venture to conclude that the iacts known respecting the motion of the Cilia are all reconcilable with the opinion that It is produced by muscular contractility. 10. Strange as it may seem, after what has been said, some observers maintain that the cilia have no real existence, even in cases where the appearance of them is the most perfect, and that the whole is an optical de- ception. I allude particularly to Raspail; according to him the water which quits the respiring surfaces has, in consequence of the change produced in it by respiration, acquired a different density, and consequently a dif- ferent refractive power from the surrounding fluid; it therefore produces the appearance of lines or streaks at the surface of the parts, which streaks are the supposed cilia. It rs scarcely necessary to repeat that the cilia are seen when at rest, when all motion of the water has ceased, and that they are evident in circumstances in which no interchange of ma- terials can take place between the tissue and the water in contact with it; and indeed, after the details already given, it is needless to say more in refutation of this view. 11. Of the motion caused in fluids hy the cilia.—One of the most remarkable characters of the motion produced in water and other fluids by the ciliary action, is its definite di- rection, which, except m some of the Infusoria, appears to be always the same in the same parts; at least I have never been able to per- ceive any exception to this rule. Appearances would rather lead to the belief that in the Infusoria the motion of the cilia is under the influence of the will, which would account for this and other possible cases of exception. We have hitherto taken it for granted that the currents in the water are owing to the mechanical eflect of the moving cilia, without formally adducing proofs in support of the opinion; but at the same time the details already given must have served as such. The currents cease when the motion of the cilia stops, they are strong and rapid when it is brisk, and feeble when it languishes; and though there are modifying circumstances or perhaps exceptions, yet in general the mag- nitude and velocity of the current seem to be proportionate to the size and activity of the cilia. It is true that while doubts remained as to the existence of cilia in several well- marked instances where the water unequivo- cally received its motion from the surface over which it flowed, and, independently of any visible contractions of the animal tissue, there was also considerable room to doubt whether, even in the cases where cilia were manifest, the efl^ect of these organs was wholly mecha- nical, and whether the motion of the water was not rather due to some peculiar impulsive power in the tissue, diflering from mechanical action. But more extended observation has almost wliolly removed these exceptions, while it has considerably increased the number of conforming instances, insomuch that there seems at present no necessity for having re- course to any other explanation of the motion of the fluids than that it is produced by the action of the cilia, and that their action is the result of muscular contractility, a known pro- perty of animal tissues. The phenomena of the ciliary motion seens therefore of themselves to afford no counte- nance to the notion of a peculiar impelling power of the animal tissue, in virtue of which fluids are visibly moved along its surface, in- dependently of impulse communicated to them mechanically by cilia or by contraction of in- closing solids; nor am I aware of other facts which either alone, or viewed in connexion with the former, warrant such a notion. But as some physiologists believe in the existence of such a power, and found their opinion, at least partly, on alleged examples of visible motions of fluids m organized bodies, pro- duced without cilia and independent of con- traction of the solids, it may not be amiss here shortly to consider the principal facts which have been adduced as instances of this kind. First, Three cases have been already men- tioned in which currents, more or less re- sembling those produced by cilia, take place on surfaces on which cilia have not been de- tected ; these are the currents in the Sponge, those of the Tubularia indivisa, and those within the stem and branches of Sertulariae. Jn regard to the Sponge, it is true that cilia have been diligently sought for and without success; still, considering the difficulty of the investi- gation, it is not impossible they may exist in some part of the passages through which the water runs, though not yet discovered, espe- cially as the ova possess evident cilia. With respect to the currents described by Mr. Lister within the stem of the Tubularia, it will be seen, on referring to the account of these, that farther observations would be required to settle the points here in question, viz. whether the floating particles receive their impulse from the surface over which they move independently of any contraction of the stem, and whether or not that surface is covered with cilia. To de- cide these points satisfactorily it would be necessary to lay open the tube and make trial of detached portions of the tissue as in other instances. The same remark is in a great measure applicable to the currents in the stem and branches of Sertulariae. Indeed both