628 CILIA. observations on the velocity and direction of tbe motion, and its supposed influence in de- termining the figure of the animal, I must refer to the paper itself. The analogy of these motions of the embiyo of the MoUusca with the phenomena exhibited by the ova of Infusoria, Polypi, Sponges, and Actiniae, already described, scarcely requires to be pointed out. We shall afterwards see that it extends to the ova of Batrachian Reptiles.* 11. Phenomena of the ciliari/ motion in the Vertehrata.—The ciliary motion exists very ex- tensively in vertebrated animals. Until lately it had been found only in the larvre of Batra- chian Reptiles, but Purkinje and Valentinf have recently made the important discovery that it exists also in adult Reptiles, Birds, and Mammiferous animals; and it seems to prevail generally throughout the three classes, having been found by these naturalists in all the nume- rous examples of each class examined by them in the course of their investigations. It has not been found in Fishes, though many species have been submitted to examination.! The parts of the body which exhibit the ciliary motion in the Vertebrata are, the lining membrane of the respiratory organs, and that of the generative organs in the female. Besides this general situation, it is found on the external gills and surface of the body in the larvce of Batrachia, and on the surface of the embryo of these reptiles while contained within the ovum. A. Reptiles.'—The ciliary motion has been discovered in all the orders of Reptiles. It has been found in every species submitted to ex- amination, and is therefore presumed to exist in all. Batrachian Reptiles. 1st. Larva and ova. —The Batrachian Reptiles, while in the foetal or larva stale, breathe by means of gills or branchiae, and it was on the gills of the young Salamander and Frog that the phenomenon under consideration was first discovered as existing in vertebrated animals. The gills of the young Salamander might in appearance be compared to feathers or pinnated leaves; there are three on either side, each consisting of a main stem bearing two rows of simple leaflets; they are * In the preceding account of the ciliary motiona in the Invertehrata no mention has been made of their existence in the class Crustacea : I think it necessary to state that I have examined this class, but without success ; and since these pages have been put into the printer's hands I have re exa- mined the crab and lobster with the greatest care, all the respiratory and alimentary surfaces, the inner surface of bloodvessels, &c. with lenses of all powers, but without finding the phenomenon. I suspect the respiratory currents in Crustacea which are produced by the motion of the branchife them- selves, or of the plates or oars with which many are provided in order to renew the water, have been confounded with the currents produced by cilia, more especially as many of the organs employed for the purpose in the C)itstacea are fringed with long hairs; but I would scarcely reckon such mo- tion as ciliary any more than those occasioned by the gill-covers of a fish. t MuUer's Archiv. 1834. Edinb. New Philos. Journal, xix. and Comm. Phys. de Phenomeno motus vibratorii continui. Wratislav. 1835, 4to. ^ See note at p. 29. wholly external, projecting backwards and out- wards from the side of the neck. The tadpole of the Frog (fg. 309) has at first gills resem- Fig. 309. Larva of Frog. bling those of the Salamander, but of a simpler form; they are also three on each side, but have each only five or six diverging branches. The gills of the Salamander, although not perma- nent, endure till the animal makes full use of its lungs, but the external gills of the Frog are of very short duration, being soon superseded by internal gills, more resembling those of a fish, with which the animal respires for the rest of the larva state. By means of the microscope the blood may be seen circulating through the external gills of the Frog and Salamander; it passes outwards to their extremities by the branchial arteries, and returns in a contrary direction by the branchial veins. The water also is moved continually over these organs, for the purpose of respira- tion, in a constant and determinate direction, and this is effected by the peculiar impelling power we are here considering, viz. the ciliary motion on their surface. Steinbuch,* a German naturalist already mentioned, while examining the circulation of the blood in the gills of the Salamander, ob- served that small bodies floating in the water were carried, as if by attraction, to the surface of the gill, and again repelled from it. He also found that portions detached from the gill moved themselves through the water, or if kept fixed, continued as before to attract and repel small objects in their vicinity. From these and similar facts he was led to conclude that the water was continually propelled over all parts of the gill, that the current thus produced served to renew the water in the process of re- spiration, that the power producing the propul- sion resided in the gill, and was exercised in- dependently of the will of the animal ; and lastly, from the analogy of Infusoria and Polypi, in which currents are produced by cilia, he in- ferred that in this case also the water was pro- bably impelled along the surface by the action of cilia, though he could not actually perceive any such organs. Steinbuch next examined the tadpole of the Frog, and found that its ex- * Analektenncuer Reobachtungen und Untcrsuch- ungcn fiir die Naturkundc, Furth, 1802. p. 46, sqq.