330 AVES. distinct cavities, which have the same relations to each other, and impress the same course on the circulating fluid.* The form of this viscus is always that of a cone, sometimes wide and short, as in the Ostrich and Crane; sometimes more elongated, as in the Emeu (Jig. 167) and Vulture; or still more acute, as in the Curlew, Common Fowl, &c. Its situation is more anterior and mesial than in Mammalia, and its axis is always parallel with the axis of the trunk. It is not contained with the lungs in an especial cavity, but its apex is lodged between the lobes of the liver ; tlie diaphragm not being so far developed as to separate the chest from the abdomen. As the lungs are confined to the dorsal part of the chest, the whole of the anterior surface of the pericardium is exposed when the sternum of the bird is removed. The pericardium is thin, but of a firm texture, and adheres by its ex- ternal surface to the surrounding air-cells. It is of considerable size, and commonly prolonged for some way between the lobes of the liver. The auricles of the heart in Birds have not externally such distinct appendices as in Mam- mals. The right auricle is much larger than the left; it is more distinctly divided internally into a sinus (d, Jig. 167) and auricle proper Fig. 167. Heart of the Emeu. than in Mammals, and these parts are separated by a more complete valvular structure; in which respect Birds bear a closer analogy to Reptiles. Three veins terminate in the sinus, there being in Birds always two superior cavae, as in Reptiles. The right superior cava (a), which returns the blood from the right wing and right side of the neck, terminates in the upper and anterior part of the sinus; the left superior cava {b, h) winds round the pos- terior part of the left auricle to open into the * The blood of Birds differs from that of the other Vertebrate classes in the greater number of globules, and from that of Mammalia in their form, which is oval instead of round. See Blood. lower part of the sinus; Just before.its termination it receives tlie coronary vein, so that this does not open separately into the auricle as in most Mammalia.* The inferior cava (c) terminates in the sinus just above the orifice of the left su- perior cava, and a semilunar valvular fold (/i), analogous to that of the coronary vein in man, is extended forwards between these orifices so as to separate them, and afford a protection to the mouth of the left superior cava, in addition to that which it derives in common with the other vems from the larger valves at the mouth of the sinus. The disposition of the valves between the sinus and auricle seems more especially des lined to prevent regurgitation into the sinus, when the pulmonary circulation may be im- peded, rather than to impress any definite course on the current of blood flowing through the auricle, as Cuvier supposes. A strong oblique semilunar muscular fold (g) commences in the Emeu by a band of muscular fibres running along the upper part of the auricle, and expanding into a valvular form extends along the posterior and left side of the sinus, terminating at the lower part of the fossa ovalis (t). A second semilunar muscular valve ( /), of equal size, extends parallel with the preceding along the anterior border of the orifice of the sinus, its lower extremity being fixed to the smooth floor of the auricle, its upper extremity being continued into a strong muscular column running parallel to the one first mentioned across the upper and anterior part of the auricle, and givnig off from its sides the greater part of the mvsculi pectinati. From this struc- ture it results that the more powerfully the musculi pectinati act in overcoming the ob- stacle to the passage of the blood from tlie auricle to the ventricle, the closer will the valves be drawn together, and the stronger will be the resistance made by them to the regurgitation of the blood from the auricle into the sinus. The parietes of the auricle in the interspaces of the muscular fasciculi are thin and transparent, consisting in many parts only of the lining mem- brane of the cavity and the reflected layer of the pericardium blended together. The fossa ovalis (j) is a deep depression situated behind the pos- terior semilunar valve, which, we may observe, bears nearly the same relation to the fossa as the annulus ovalis in the human heart. The membranous septum closing the foramen ovale is complete and strong, but thin and semi- transparent. The appendix auricula (.r) is the most muscular part of the cavity; it does not project freely in front of the great vessels arising from the ventricles, but is tightly tied down to them by the reflected layer of the pericardium. The auriculo-ventricular orifice is an oblique slit {k,Jig. 169 ; a bristle is passed through it in fg. 167). The manner in which re- • In those Mammalia which approach nearest to the oviparous vertebrata, as the Monotremata and Marsupiata, there are always two superior cavx, as in Birds and Reptiles ; a similar structure obtains in some of the Rodentia, as the Porcupine ; and also occurs in the Elephant. In all these cases we have found that the coronary vein terminates in the left superior cava.