491 CAROTID ARTERY. a third turn upwards under tlie anterior clinoid process, and ]iassing backwards and a little in- wards it perforates the dura mater between thein- ternal side of this process and the commissure of the optic nerves. The only vessels whicii it gives from its entrance into the foramen caroticum to the place where it perforates the dura mater are one or two small branches which perforate the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and pass to the cavity of the tympanum, and as it lies beside the cavernous sinus, two or three little twigs to the dura mater, pituitary gland, body of the sphenoid bone, and to the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth pairs of nerves which lie ex- ternal to it and in contact with the outer or inner wall of the cavernous sinus. The op/itluilmic arterij arises from the an- terior side of the carotid while that vessel is passing into the dura mater, by the side of the anterior clinoid process; it enters the foramen opticum at first external and inferior to the optic nerve, over which it mounts obliquely towards its internal side, passing between it and the superior rectus muscle of the eye ; it then directs its course along the superior and internal part of the orbit between the obliquus superior and rectus internus, towards the inner canthus of the eye where it terminates. Before entering the orbit it gives off a few small twigs to the dura mater and cavernous sinus, and within the orbit it furnishes the following branches:— 1. the lachrymal; 2. the arteria centralis retinae; 3. the supra-orbital; 4. the ciliary; 5. the muscular; 6. the ethmoidal; 7. the palpe- bral ; 8. the frontal; and 9. the nasal. The order in which these arteries arise from the ophthalmic presents many varieties; but they are constant in their distribution. 1. The luchrymaL artery is one of the largest branches of the ophthalmic: it sometimes comes from the middle meningeal, and enters the orbit by the foramen lacerum orbitaleof the sphe- noid bone. It runs forwards between the ex- ternal wall of the orbit and the rectus externus, giving branches to that muscle, the periosteum, levator palpebrae superioris and sheath of the optic nerve. One of its branches traverses the malar bone, and entering the temporal fossa anastomoses with the anterior deep temporal; another little branch frequently traversing this bone passes outwards through the same hole with the nervus subcutaneus raalae, and anas- tomoses with branches of the transversalis faciei. The continuation of the artery then divides into several branches which are distributed to the lachrymal gland and the external part of the upper eyelid, anastomosing with the palpebral and the temporal arteries. 2. The central artery of the retina (urtei'ia centralis retina) penetrates the substance of the optic nerve to enter a canal in its centre, the porus opticus, in which it passes forwards, and is distributed to the retina, the vascular layer of which it forms by its ramifications. 3. The supra-orbital arises after the centralis retinjE, passes forwards along the superior wall of the orbit above the levator palpebral supe- rioris and superior rectus, giving branches to these muscles, the periosteum, and the scle- rotic: on reaching the margin of the orbit, it passes out through the superciliary foramen, along with the frontal branch of the ophthalmic nerve, giving in its passage a branch which enters the substance of the frontal bone; this artery then mounts beneath the corrugator su- percilii and orbicularis palpebrarum muscles, and is expended on diese muscles, the occipito- frontalis and the integuments; it anastomoses with branches of the lachi^mal and frontal. 4. The ciliary arteries sometimes amount in number to diirty or forty; they consist of three sets: the posterior or short, the long, and the anterior. The posterior ciliary arteries are very numerous, sometimes amounting in number to thirty or forty: although mostly arising from the ophthalmic, some of them come from the inferior muscular, the supra-orbital, posterior ethmoidal or lachrymal; they run along the optic nerve very tortuous, and entangled with the ciliary nerves, anastomosing freely with each other. The posterior or short ciliary arteries pierce the sclerotic close to the entrance of the optic nerve; some of their branches are distributed to that membrane in which they anastomose with branches from the muscular arteries; while all the others advance nearly parallel, dividing at very acute angles into numerous smaller twigs; these branches are at first ex- ternal to the choroid ; but in their course for- wards they penetrate to the internal surface of that membrane, and becoming more numerous from having undergone new subdivisions, form a network of anastomoses from which several branches are sent to the ciliary margin of the iris, where they anastomose with the anterior ciliary, but a greater number are given to the ciliary processes in the centre of which they form a very fine network, and finally end in a circle of anastomoses surrounding the margin of the circle in which these processes terminate internally. The long ciliary arteries are two in number, one internal, the other external; they are larger than the short ciliary arteries among which they arise, but pierce the sclerotic obliquely at a greater distance from the optic nerve ; they pass forwards between the sclerotic and cho- roid, and having arrived at the ciliary ligament, they divide each into two long branches which separate from each other at obtuse angles, and, coursing along the ciliary margin of the iris, form a circle around the greater circumference of that membrane which receives branches of anastomosis from the short ciliary arteries. From the interior of this circle numerous branches arise, each of which divides into two, which diverge at obtuse angles, and, anastomo- sing with each other and with the anterior ciliary, form another arterial circle within the former. Thus there are two arterial circles, one within the other at the greater circumference of the iris. From the concavity of this inner circle the arteries of the iris arise. These arte- ries are very numerous ; they converge in ser- pentine lines towards the papillary margin of the iris, where they anastomose, in the manner of the mesenteric arteries, to form the lessev