CARNIVORA. 480 an adult seal, in which both these channels of communication remained open ; and the writer of this article dissected a seal some years since which was nearly full grown, in which the foramen ovale was so open as to allow the tip of the little finger to enter, and the ductus arteriosus would admit with ease the bulb of a common probe. Upon the whole then it appears that, al- though the pervious condition of these chan- nels cannot be considered as general in the adult state of these diving animals, as has sometimes been supposed, it must be allowed that this exception is far more frequent in them than in any other mammiferous animals, and that, as a general rule, these holes remain open later in such animals than in others. There is, however, in the otters and in the seals, a con- siderable dilatable enlargement observed in the inferior cava, which serves doubtless as a re- servoir to retain part of the returning blood during submersion, until the animal rises again to breathe. Organs of respiration.— The lungs are di- vided into lobes varying but little in number in the terrestrial families of the order. These all have four lobes to the right lung, and either two or three to the left. The seals have the right lung divided into two lobes, and the left undivided. The cartilaginous portions of the rings of which the trachea is composed vary in the proportions which these bear to the whole circle; in the genus Mustela and some others, the cartilage forms about two-thirds of the circle; in the bear, the coati, and the cats, about three-fourths; and in the ichneumon as much as four-fifths. llie nervous system.— On viewing the dif- ferent orders of mammifera in the ascending series, the brain of the Carnivora (Jig. 201 being an upper and a lateral view of that of the Lion) will be found to e.xhibit a higher degree Fig. 201. of developement than exists either in the cetacea, in any of the forms of the herbivora, or in the niarsupiaia; the hemispheres have here a well-marked superiority of develope- ment over the cerebellum and tubercula quadi-i- gemina. On the other hand the brain of the Carnivora is less developed anteriorly than in the Quadrumana, the anterior lobes being some- what narrowed and depressed, and the con- volutions, (although deeper than in the orders just mentioned,) instead of the labyrinthine duplicatures which are observable in the Qua- drumana and in man, are, generally speaking, longitudinal in their direction, the principal being but two on each side of the median line, crossed by a transverse anterior one. The cerebellum is almost wholly uncovered as seen from above, not more than one-fifth of it lying under the posterior edges of the hemispheres. The optic thalami, however, are concealed not only from above but even on a lateral view, by the hemispheres. Of the tubercula qua- drigemina, the posterior are the larger. The eye possesses but few peculiarities of any importance. The relative proportions of the difi'erent humours are here more nearly equalized than in any order of the mammalia, at least in some of the genera, as the following comparative view will shew :— Aqueous. Crystalline. Vitreous. Dog ^ ... 5\ • • • A Man I, ... • • • W 5*7 • • • ^7^ • • ■ The vitreous humour, therefore, is much less than in either of the other cases, and the crys- talline smaller in proportion than that of man. The crystalline lens in the Seal fulfils the gene- ral law which gives to it a degree of sphericity in relation with the aquatic habits of the animal. Thus the crystalline of fishes is ab- solutely spherical, that of the cetacea nearly so, and that of the seal and of the otter very much less flattened than in those animals which re- side and seek their food on land. In the seal also the sclerotic is considerably thickened anteriorly and still more dense at the posterior part, whilst the middle zone is very thin and flexible,— a structure which must offer great facility for the action of the different muscles which compress the globe, and alter the rela- tive proportion of its diameter to its axis. Tlie form of the pupil differs in different groups. In the diurnal carnivora, and even in some nocturnal, it is permanently round ; but in the cats it is perpendicular during its contracted state, and in a very bright light it is almost linear, but even in these it becomes perfectly round in the dark, and the ellipse which it forms in its contraction is more or less length- ened or acute according to the degree of light. The inner surface of the choroid is partially lined with a brilliant greenish tapetum, similar to that which is found in the ruminantia, and occupying nearly the same situation. The lachrymal gland exists throughout this order, and the glandula Harderi is also found in its members as well as in the ruminantia, pachydermata, and some if not all the ro- dentia. The organ of hearing is developed to a very considerable degree in most of the Carnivora. The external ear varies much in size and form; it is moderate in the cats, small in the bears, and rudimentary in the seals, but enormously large in the Fennec, a species of the family Canida. There is in these, as well as in many other mammiferous animals, especially the ro- dtntiu, a remarkable hollow appendage to the