305 AVES. PaiTot, Turkey, Cassowary, Stork, Goose, and Swan, that the inarsupium seems absolutely to adhere to the capsule of the lens; but in many other birds, on the contrary, it does not extend further than two thirds of the distance from the back part of the eye, and is attached at its anterior extremity to some of the numerous lamincB of the hyaloid membrane which form the cells for the lodgment of the vitreous hu- mour. In these cases the marsupium can have no influence on the movements of the lens, unless it be endowed with an erectile property, and be so far extended as to push forward the lens. The researches of Bauer* have shewn that there is no muscular structure in the marsupium, and its changes of form, if such occur in the living bird, must be effected by changes in the condition of the vessels of which it is almost exclusively com- posed. The form of the marsupium varies in differ- ent birds ; it is broader than it is long in the Stork, Heron, Turkey, and Swan; and of the contrary dimensions in the Owl, Ostrich, and Cassowary. The plicae of the membrane are perpendicular to the terminal line of the optic nerve; they are of a rounded figure in most species, but in the Ostrich and Cassowary they are compressed, and so far inclined from the plane of the membrane, that their convergence towards its extremity gives it a resemblance to a close-drawn purse.f The folds vary in num- ber, being four in the Cassowary, seven in the Great Horned Owl, eight in the Goose, from ten to twelve in the Duck and Vulture, fifteen in the Ostrich, sixteen in tlie Stork, and still more numerous in the Insessorial Birds, amounting to twenty-eight, according to Soem- merring, in the Fieldfare. The exact functions of the marsupial mem- brane are still involved in obscurity. Its po- sition is such that some of the rays of light proceeding from objects laterally situated with respect to the eye must fall upon and be absorbed by it; and Petit accordingly supposed that it contributed to render more distinct the perception of objects placed in front of the eye. The theory originally proposed by Sir Everard Home,I which attributed to the marsupium the office of retracting the lens for the purpose of distant vision by its muscular contraction, is opposed by the numerous examples in which * Philosophical Transactions, 1822, p. 76. t The Parisian Academicians, who took their de- scription of this part from the Ostrich, first applied to it the name of Marsupium or Bourse. The origi- nal description is as follows :—" De cet entonnoir (the termination of the optic nerve) sortoit une membrane pi issee, yaisan( comme M«e 6o!(rse qui abou- tissoit en pointe vers le bord du Christallin le phis prochain de I'entree du nerf optique. Cette bourse, qui estoit large de six lignes par le bas, a la sortie du nerf optique, et qui alloit en pointe vers le haut, estoit attachee par sa pointe aubord du Chrystallin, par le moyen de la membrane qui le couvroit du coste de I'humeur vitrfee, et qui couvroit aussi toute la bourse qui estoit noir mais d'un autre noir que n'est celuy de la choro'ide."—Duvernoy, in ' M6- moires pour servir a I'Hist. Nat. des Animaux,' p. 375. t Croonian Lecture, Phil. Trans. 1796. VOL. I. it does not extend to die chrystalline, and by the manner of its attachment in those cases in which it does; since, as in these the mar- supium adheres to the side of the chrystalline, it can only move it obliquely. Some physiologists have supposed that this black membrane was extended towards thecentre of the eye, where the luminous rays are most powerfully concentrated in order to absorb the excess of intense light to which birds are ex- posed in soaring aloft against the blazing sun. Others have considered it as the gland of the vitreous humour, and that, as this fluid must be rapidly consumed during the frequent and energetic use made of the visual organ by Birds, it therefore might require a superadded vascular structure for its reproduction. We are inclined to consider the marsupium as an erectile organ, adapted to receive a vary- ing quantity of blood, and to occupy a variable space in the vitreous humour; when fully in- jected, therefore, it will tend to push forward the lens, either directly or through the medium of the vitreous humour, which must be dis- placed in a degree corresponding to the in- creased size of the marsupium ; the contrary effects will ensue when the vascular action is diminished. From the analogy of other struc- tures introduced by Supreme Wisdom into the mechanism of organized bodies, it may reason- ably be supposed that the marsupium is not limited to a single function. The retina is continued from the circumference of the base of the marsupium, and after forming a few slight folds expands into a smooth layer of medullary matter, which seems to terminate at the periphery of the corpus ciliare. In the Owls, as Ilaller has observed, not more than half the globe of the eye is lined by the retina; it ceases in fact where the eye loses the sphe- rical form at the base of the anterior cylindrical portion. The humours of the eye no less correspond to the peculiar vision of the bird, and the rare medium through which it is destined to move, than the shape of the globe and the texture of its coats. The aqueous humour is extremely abundant, owing to the extent of the anterior chamber gained by the convexity of the cornea, and its refractive power must be considerable in the higher regions of the atmosphere. The mem- brane inclosing it can be more readily demon- strated in birds than in most mammals, espe- cially where it adheres to the free edge of the iris. The large size of the ciliary processes may have the same relation to the repro- duction of the aqueous, as the marsupium is supposed to have with reference to the vitreous humour. The chrystalline lens is remarkable for its flat- tened form, especially in the high-soaring Birds of Prey ; it is also of a soft texture, and is without any hard nucleus, as in the eyes of Fishes and Reptiles. In the Cormorant and other birds which seek their food in water, the chrystalline is of a rounder figure, and this is peculiarly the case in the near- sighted Owls which hunt for prey in obscure X