791 DEATH. DEATH.—(Lat. mors; Gr. Gnvaro?; Germ. Tod; Fr.mort; hSi\. morte.) This word has acquired a variety of meanings, which it will be proper to enumerate, before explaining the sense to be adopted in the following article.—Death sometimes expresses the time when an organic body loses the characters which distinguished it while living ; in which signification it is the opposite, not of life, but of birth, or the period when life began ; this period being dated in the animal either from the time when it left its ovum or its parent, or from the very moment of con- ception ; and in the vegetable, either from its emergence above the earth, or from the first impulse of germination. In another acceptation. Death is that altered condition of an organic body in which it is no longer the subject of certain processes which con- stituted its life. Thirdly, it may signify that series of changes which immediately precede the cessation of life;—in this meaning, death is the act or process of dying. Lastly, in the human subject, the word is employed to express the separation of the soul from the body. It will be our object not so much to follow out these several significations, which would lead into a very wide if not a vague discussion, as to consider the preci.se nature of that condition of the animal body to which the term Death in its physiological import is applicable, and to enquire by what signs that state may be known to be either impending, or actually present. Death in its most restricted sense may be defined to be that condition which imme- diately succeeds the abolition of all those ac- tions or properties which distinguish living from brute matter, a condition not merely negative but privative. But death is likewise applied to certain states of the organic system in the higher animals, in which the abolition of the functions is not universal. In the former sense, an animal is not dead until every vital action throughout the tissues has been extinguished; while in the latter, dis- solution is considered to have taken place when the circulation and respiration have ceased, because the cessation of the others almost uniformly follows. We have here then an obvious distinction of Death into two kinds, which will be found to correspond with a very natural division of the vital actions into two classes; 1, those which transpire between the particles of which living bodies are composed (nutrition and contraction); and 2, those which occur between certain collec- tions of organic particles, called organs, and by virtue of whicK these organs constitute a whole system—(respiration, circulation, inner- vation, &c.) The extinction of the former of these classes of functions we shall venture to designate Molecular Death; of the latter, Systemic Death * " Wc should have been glad to have avoided a word so incorrectly formed as systemic, but its use ha fbeen sanctioned by too many and too great au- thorities for us to venture upon the substitution of The following truths respecting the mutual influence of these two kinds of death will be illustrated in the course of the present article : 1st, That molecular does not necessarily in- volve systemic death, unless the former is universal. 2dly, That when partial, as in mortification, the tendency of molecular to in- duce systemic death depends on the import- ance of the part to the whole. 3dly, That molecular death in one part can only induce the same change in another part, by means of its interference with one of the systemic func- tions. 4thly, That systemic death must neces- sarily be followed sooner or later by molecular death,.—but that, 5thly, The reality of systemic death can only be proved with certainty by the occurrences pertaining to molecular death. MOLECULAR DEATH. Molecular life is constituted by two func- tions, Nutrition and Contraction, for which certain conditions are requisite. The former demands a mechanism or tissue of pores or in- finitely minute tubes, the ingress and egress of fluid, and a certain quality of this fluid; the latter, a fibrous arrangement of particles, in most animals and in all a peculiar property called irritability or contractility. The viola- tions of these conditions are necessarily fol- lowed by molecular death. We shall consider them in detail. Destruction of' the tissues.—It is all but a truism to assert that the function of a tissue must cease when its mechanism is broken up, though mere integrity of the mechanism is insufficient to maintain the function. The changes which ensue are as follows. The sub- stance is no longer capable of receiving and transmitting fluid in the same manner as for- merly ; the fluid which it contained is either confused with the disorganized solid particles, or is altogether eliminated ; the fibres are unfitted for contraction ; and the nervous filaments are paralysed. In this condition the part has ob- viously no kind of connection with the rest of the system, by the exchange either of fluid, or of nervous influence; it is dead both abso- lutely and relatively. If the other organs sur- vive its death, certain processes commence in its immediate vicinity, by means of which a mechanical as well as a vital separation is effected; while the mortified part, as it is technically called, is abandoned to tlie play of various chemical affinities among its particles, and between these and surrounding agents. According as these changes are less or more ad- vanced, there is gangrene or sphacelus. It may happen however that the other parts of the frame may lose their vitality soon after the local injury ; but their dissolution will depend upon the violation of other conditions than that which we are at present discussing. Thus the part disorganized may be essential a newly-created one. The writer is indebted to his friend Dr. Prichard for the suggestion of somatic, wliich is at once correct, and sufficiently characte- ristic, but he has not had the courage to introduce it into the text, though supported by an authority no less eminent in philology than in general sci- ence.