707 CONCHIFERA. between tbom. It is a circumstance worthy of has been given by naturalists, and very pro- remark that the siphons are observed to be- perly, because it is in truth upon it that the come elongated and thickened in proportion motions of the valves take place, as the lobes of the mantle are more extensively General structure.—When examined with united. This circumstance, however, is only due attention, the sliell is found to be composed true in a general way, for it would be easy to of two kinds ot laminae very distinct from one quote many striking exceptions to it. another («, b, Jig. 363); the one, secreted from 2. Sip/ions.—We have already had occasion within outwards by the edges of the mantle, to see the siphons commence in certain genera present themselves under the form of greatly by simple perforations; they increase in length elongated cones, the thick parts of which are in the succession of genera; and in a certain turned towards the outer surface («, c, c, number they always continue unconnected fg. 363); the other, in parallel layers, secreted through their entire extent (g, h, Jig. 346 ; h, by the central and posterior parts c, fig. 355). In other genera, however, the Fig. 363. of the mantle, line the interior of the shell, and in many species at length fill up the cavity of the hooks. These two layers of the shell are frequently found in cer- tain fossil species almost com- pletely separated from one an- other. At other times the inner layer is seen to have been dissolv- ed away, whilst the external one continues without appearing to have undergone any great change. It is in the genera C/iama, My- tilus, Pinna, Spondyius, more es- pecially that the two laminae of which a bivalve shell is formed can be studied to greatest advantage, very considerable degree, mey are neset and this study is of importance around their external orifices with a great as leading to a more accurate knowledge of number of papilla;, o,_/;g. 347), occasionally certain fossil genera, in regard to the charac- truncated at their extremities and of exquisite ter of which some uncertainty has always pre- sensibility. The water has to pass over these vailed, by reason of one of the constituent papillae before it can enter the mantle, and un- portions of their shell always being found dis- doubtedly they apprise the animal of the pre- solved, as in Pittillus. In some genera the ex- sence of every foreign body that might injure ternal layer is very readily distinguished, from it. In a few genera the siphons contract by having a fibrous structure (a, a, Jig. 369), a means of their component muscular fibres; structure observed more especially in the but in the greater number they have a parti- shells of the Pinna family and those of the cular retractor muscle running on each side of Mulleacea. The two layers of the shell are in the animal, and in relation, in point of mag- the inverse ratio of one another in point of nitude, &c. with the length and degree of con- thickness : the external layer, extremely thin tractility possessed by the siphons {p,Jig- 347). towards the hook, increases continually towards Tlie existence of this muscle, and consequently the edges, whilst the inner layer, thick at the of siphons, is manifested on the interior of the hook, becomes thinner and thinner as it ap- shell by a posterior sinuous furrow of various proaclies the edges, around which it is usually depth, and indicating upon a narrow line the exceeded a little by the outer layer. A fact point of implantation of the retractor muscle of well deserving of attention is this :—that the the siphons. muscular impressions and the whole articular In some of the acephalous mollusks the aspect of the hinge are formed in the substance siphons are too large to be received within of the inner layer of the shell, and these parts, cover of the shell, in which case the retractor of so much consequence, do not leave a trace muscle is generally small, inasmuch as it is upon the external layer when this alone is pre- then of little use (Mya, Glycimeris); but in served. It is only from having neglected to study those species in which the siphons are of mid- the structure of the shell with sufficient attention dling size, or not so large as to be incapable that naturalists have found themselves at a loss of entering the shell, the retractile muscle is to discover the true characters of certain fossil of considerable size and power (Tellina, genera, as Podopsis, Splicrulites, which, in Psammobia). consequence of their position in porous chalky 3. Tlie shell.—The lobes of the mantle beds, never occur with more than the outer appear to be the efficient parts in determining layer of their shell in a good state of preser- the form of the shell, and it is by their thick vation. edges that this covering is in great part secreted. The hinge.—The part of the edge of a shell The whole of the Conchiferous acephala,without by which the two valves are conjoined, is, as exception, are included within a bivalve shell, we have already had occasion to state, deno- the two parts of which are joined by a point in minated the hinge. This part is entirely formed their upper edge, to which the title of hinge by the inner layer of the shell. The part of siphons are seen at first united towards their base, then conjoined nearly to the middle, co- /^T hering almost to their ends, and finally blended iM through their whole length, so as to form a j n single elongated subcylindrical fleshy mass, IIM pierced through its entire length by the canals ||| of the two siphons, one of smaller size, situ- i'My ated superiorly for the anus, the other larger, ''\m situated under the former, and destined to transmit the water to the branchiaj. Whether Vm connected or not, the superior siphon is always ^Vro characterized as the anal, the inferior as the cU^ branclnal siphon. Tlie structure of the siphons is entirely mus- cular, so that their free extremities are capable of contracting and of being elongated to a