CHYLIFEROUS SYSTEM. 600 ferring evidently to the Quadrumanous type in the structure of the teeth, and the latter to the type of the insectivora. The tongue presents a peculiarity in the genus Phyllostoma, which is worthy of being particularly noted. It consists of a number of wart-like elevations, so arranged as to form a complete circular suctorial disk, when they are brought into contact at their sides, which is done by means of a set of muscular fibres, having a tendon attached to each of the warts. By means of this curious sucker, these bats are enabled to suck the blood of animals and the juice of succulent fruits. This power has been attributed by mistake to some of the genus Pteropus, merely because their tongue is rough, and it was calculated that by means of such a surface the skin may have been abraded. Theslomuch is no less indicative of the nature ofthe aliment than the teeth; offering, in theP^e- I'opus (Jig. 287), a very striking affinity to that Fig. 287. of many true vegetable feeders in some remote orders, and in Flecotus (Jig. 288), as complete Fig. 288. an identity with that of the carnivorous type. In the former the oesophagus swells out before it enters the general cavity, and that dilatation, as Home observes, appears, from its structure, to belong to the stomach. To the left of the oesophagus there are two dilatations, the far- thest of which has a smooth surface and thin coats ; the other is furnished with several deep longitudinal rugse, some of which are con- tinued from similar ones in the oesophagus. Four of the rugse are continued towards the pylorus, giving a direction to the food in that course; about one-third of the stomach to- wards the pyloric extremity is turned back upon itself, and the pylorus is consequently placed externally close to the entrance of the oesophagus. At tiie pylorus is a very small opening into the intestine, which when con- tracted seems scarcely pervious to air. Such is the complicated form of the stomach in the frugivorous division ; whilst that of the insect- feeders is as simple as possible, being only divided into a cardiac and a pyloric portion with scarcely the slightest contraction. The intestines present a no less marked distinction. In the Pteropus they are no less than seven times the length of the body, whilst Vespei-- tilio noctula offers the shortest proportional length of the canal, it being only twice as long as the body. The latter is also wholly devoid of a (.cecum. The organs of generation.—The male organs of the Bats bear a near relation to those of the Quadrumana and of Man, in some striking respects. The penis is pendulous, and the proportions between the different organs are not very dissimilar; but the testes do not descend from the abdomen excepting during the breeding season, when they are found on each side of the anus, whilst the large epididymis is seen just behind them, on each side of the origin of the tail. The vesicultr. seminales are of moderate size, and consist of two round white sacs, which are perfectly simple, form- ing each a single cavity with a secreting in- ternal surface. They have a prostate gland, which surrounds the whole circumference of the urethra, and appears to be composed of numerous small lobes. They have also Cow- per's gUmds. The penis is very similar to that of the other more highly organized forms, the Quadrumana and Man. It is of moderate size, pendulous, and supported by ligaments, as in the other cases. There is a small bone of the penis. The muscular portion of the urethra is rather long. The glans is in some species enlarged by a small process or button on each side; the urethra opens at the extreme point. The female organs offer nothing very par- ticular. The vulva is round, and exhibits a slight appearance of a clitoris near its edge; the mouth of the uterus stands out into the vagina. The uterus is two-horned and the boms are very short. There are but two teats, which are placed on the breast. The additional ones said to exist in the groin of the Rliinolophi are most probably ordinary cutaneous glands, as Kuhl could discover no trace of mammary glands beneath them. They were first discovered by Montagu in this country, and by Geoffroy in France. The Bats are among those animals in whom we notice the remarkable phenomenon of Hy- bernation, of which it is unnecessary to say any thing here, as a distinct article is devoted to the subject. (See Hybernation.) For the Bibliography see that of MAMMALIA. (T. Bell.) CHYLIFEROUS SYSTEM (in Compa- rative Anatomy) is that portion of the vascular system of vertebrated animals which is destined to convey the nutritious part of the food, or the chyle, from the alimentary canal into the san- guiferous vessels. The function of these chy- liferous vessels appears to be performed by the veins in the invertebrated classes, where the white colour of the blood causes them to re- semble more closely the lacteals or chyliferous vessels of vertebrata. Several parts, however, of the invertebrated animals have been taken by anatomists for this lacteal system, as the