CILIA. 611 t Phil. Trans. 1834, p. 366. t Phil, trans. 1834, p. 369. In the second form (fig. 294) the stem and Fig. 294. Campajiularia, branches are formed externally of a tough (generally horny) substance, and within this of a transparent soft tissue, which is tu- bular and contains a granular matter. The polypi resemble hydra;; each is lodged in a horny cell (a, a), from which it partially protrudes itself; one orifice surrounded with tentacula serves both for receiving aliment and discharging faeces; this leads to a stomach (6), which communicates through an opening (t) at the bottom of the cell with the interior of the tubular stem and branches, the attached part or base of the polype being continuous with the soft internal tube, of which the po- lypes might be regarded as a prolongation. In this form of polype, which exists in most true species of Sertularia, Campanularia, and Plumularia, and in allied genera, the tentacula or arms are destitute of cilia and incapable of giving an impulsion to the water. But a very remarkable motion has been observed by Cavolini* and Mr. Listerf in the granular matter contained in the stem and branches. Although this motion has not been traced to the agency of cilia, yet as it is connected with our subject, I shall briefly notice it here. When the stem and branches of the above- named zoophytes are examined with a high magnifying power, a current of granular par- ticles is seen running along the axis of the tube. The current, which is compared to the running of sand in a sand-glass, after con- tinuing one or two minutes in the same direc- tion, changes and sets in the opposite one, in which it continues about as long, and again resumes the first, thus alternately flowing along the stem to the extremities of the branches, and back again. The change of direction is sometimes immediate, but at other times the particles are quiet for a while, oi- exhibit a confused whirling motion for a few seconds before the change takes place. Mr. Lister has discovered that the currents extend into the stomachs of the polypi, in which and in the * Memorie per sprvire alia storia de' Polypi Marini, p. 121 and 197; p. 56 and 91 of ihe Ger- man Translation. mouth a remarkable agitation of particles is perceptible. When these particles are allowed to escape from a cut branch, they exhibit, according to Mr. Lister, something very like spontaneous motion. The immediate cause of these currents is not apparent; it seems not to be muscular contraction of the tube; perhaps, like the agitation within the stomach, they rnay be owing to internal cilia. As to their use Mr. Lister supposes the circulating matter " to be a great agent in absorption, and to perform a prominent part in the obscure pro- cesses of growth ; and its flow into the stomach of the polypi seems to indicate that in this very simple family (the Sertulariae) it acts also as a solvent of the food."-—Page 77. Perhaps the polypi of the Pennatula and Virgularia should be referred to this head. In these Dr. Grant* discovered a constant vibratory motion within the mouth, apparently pro- duced by cilia placed round the entrance of that passage, and he saw minute particles oc- casionally propelled from the mouth. Their tentacula, as in the zoophytes last referred to, did not excite currents. The third form of polype is found in Tubularia. Fig. 295 represents a magnified view of a common species, the Tubularia indivisa. There is a transparent horny tube (a, a), containing a soft mat- ter, which at the extremity of the tube is continuous with the stomach (6) and the mouth (c). There are two rows of tentacula or arms, one (rf) immediately surrounding the orifice of the mouth, the other (e) further back, be- tween the mouth and stomach. The arms are destitute of cilia and excite no movement in the water; but Mr. Listerf has discovered a remarkable motion of particles within the tube, which has some re- semblance to the circulation of globules observed in plants of the genus C/iara. These particles moved in a current within the tube, the general cour.se of the stream being parallel to the slightly spiral lines of spots on the tube, ^ ^ and in the directions marked Tuhdaria by the arrows. On the greater indivka. part of the side first viewed (the one represented) it set as from the poly- pus ; but on the other side the flow was to- wards the polypus, each current thus occupy- ing half the circumference. The tube had a granulated appearance between the lines of spots, and beneath this the particles ran. Their course was even and uniform without any starting or dancing motion, such as is observed in the Sertulariae. At the nodous parts of the * Edin. Ph-I. Jonrn.