ANUS. 179 of the prostate gland and mennbranous portion of the urethra, and converging beneath the latter are inserted in common bet\\een the bulb and the fore-part of the rectum into the central point of the perineum ; these portions in their descent present a well-defined edge inwards or towards the median line. The middle, or aponeurotic portion, is broad and thin above, the vesical fascia adhering so closely to it as to render its separation difficult. As it descends it increases in thickness, expands close to the rectum, and is inserted into the coats of that intestine, intermingling with its longitudinal fibres, and with the sphincter ani; in the female it is intimately attached to the vagina also. The posterior or Ischiatic portion passes al- most transversely mwards, and is inserted into the coccyx, and into the cellulo-tendinous line which extends from the latter to the rectum ; some fleshy fibres are continuous from one n)uscle to the other. This portion of the le- vator ani is more aponeurotic than the pre- ceding, and its posterior border is connected to the Ischio-coccygseus muscle. The external or inferior surface of this muscle is inclined down- wards, and is more or less related to the obtu- rator and ischio-rectal fasciae, to the glutaeus maximus and transverse perinaeal muscles and vessels, and to the mass of anal fat. The internal or concave surface looks upwards, and is closely covered by the vesical fascia, below which it is in contact with the rectum, bladder, prostate gland, and urethra, or with the uterus and vagina. This muscle is disposed on the rectum in the same manner in the female as it is in the male; the fibres are also inti- mately connected to the vagina. The action of the levator ani muscles is two-fold, and not confined to the mere ele- vation of the anus, as its name would im- ply. First, they act as a moveable floor to the abdomen and pelvis, which can antago- nize the diaphragm ; these two fleshy planes being opposed to each other, can, by a slight action of one or both, materially alter the perpendicular axis of the abdomen, which extends between them. This axis is at its great- est length during the state of expiration, and is most diminished when both these muscles are forcibly contracting. The levatores ani, how- ever, have less influence in effecting this change than the diaphragm; they serve chiefly to support the lower region of the pelvis and ihe several viscera this cavity contains against the combined protruding forces of the diaphragm and abdominal muscles in violent exertions of the body, or in forcible efforts of respiration, or in the evacuation of the contents of the rec- tum and bladder; and, secondly, they not only raise, but dilate the anus, by drawing out its circumference so as to overcome the sphinc- ters ; at the same time they compress and assist in emptying the rectum, particularly the dilated pouch, which is a little above the anus; they also resist the prolapsus of the mucous coat of the intestine, and raise it after it has been to a certain extent protruded by the action of the abdominal muscles. They raise and draw forward the coccyx after it has been forced back by abdominal pressure in parturition, or in the ordinary evacuation of the bowels, and further, by raising and compressing the trigone of the bladder, they assist in expelling its contents, and for the same reason they can also empty the vesiculae seminaies of their fluid. The anterior portions of these muscles are intimately con- nected to the membranous part of the urethra, and are variously modified in different indi- viduals and in diflferent animals ; we consider those muscular fasciculi which have been de- scribed differently by anatomical writers under different names, compressores urethrae, &c., as parts of or appendages to these muscles : these urethral portions of the levatores am can cer- tainly compress the membranous part of the urethra and empty its canal ; they can even interrupt or suddenly stop the stream of urine, and thus they may occasionally aid the neck of the bladder in retaining the contents of that organ. The Isc/iio-cocci/gai muscles are situated at the posterior inferior part of the pelvis ; they are thin, flat, and triangular, composed of a mix- ture of fleshy and tendinous fibres. The apex or origin of each is attached to the spine of the Ischium, and its base is inserted into all the side of the coccyx, and a small portion of the sacrum ; they are partly covered by the great sciatic ligaments. The superior and posterior border is connected to the lesser sciatic liga- ment, and the anterior border is in part con- tinuous with the levator ani muscle; the an- terior or pelvic surface is connected to the rectum and the surrounding adipose substance. This pair of muscles appear as a prolongation of the levatores ani, and are of use in com- pleting the inferior boundary of the pelvis; tht'y tiius support the rectum and the pelvic viscera, and they also serve to retain the coccyx and restore it to its situation when protruded by thediaphragm and abdominal muscles in the [iro- cess of parturition, and in the act of defaecation, or when drawn too much forward by the levatores ani muscles. If the several muscles in this region be now partially removed on one side, the lower extremity of the rectum will become more distinct, and will be found surrounded by a quantity of loose, fatty, cellular tissue, sepa- rating it from the surrounding muscles and bones; this contains many nervous filaments and numerous bloodvessels, particularly veins. (See Intestinal Canal.) Anteriorly in the male subject a small triangular space, the bulbo-rectal hollow, will now become distinct; this is situated between the anus and mem- branous portion of the urethra ; the base of it is at the skin of the perinaeum; the apex at the prostate: to the last the rectum will be seen rather intimately connected. The bulb and the membranous portion of the urethra bound this space in front, and the rectum behind. (See Perix.cum and Urethra.) Rectum.— In addition to the several muscles which have now been severally noticed, and which thus serve not only to retain and support the rectum and anus, but which even enter into the structure of the former, we have further to consider the parts more immediately composing N 2