717 CONTRACTILITY. or of the Etiffening of limbs after death,) he gives this name to contractions which are strictly vital. Almost all animal substances are liable to contraction from heat, and from the application of various chemical agents which affect them as astringents, to which property Bichat gave the name of ContractiUte par rucorn'mement; and it is easy to perceive that this property also, although persistent in the perfectly dead body, and therefore inde- pendent of life, may give occasion to contrac- tions which may sometimes be mistaken for indications of the strictly vital contractility. Confining our attention, however, to such contractions of the solids of organized bodies, as are exhibited by them only in their living state, i.e. so long as they present that assem- blage of phenomena, to which we give the name of Life,—we proceed to state the facts which seem to be most important and best ascertained, first, as to the modes in which they are excited; secondly, as to their pheno- mena, and varieties; thirdly, as to the condi- tions necessary to their manifestation; and, lastly, as to the laws which regulate them. I. It is universally known, that the most striking examples of vital contractions are seen in the effects produced by various stimuli acting on muscles, particularly those of volun- tary motion, and the heart. The essential cha- racters of muscular fibres, their composition nearly akin to the fibrin of the blood, their arrangement in parallel fasciculi, which are bound together by cellular membrane, their soft texture, and slight elasticity are also ge- nerally known. The change excited by sti- muli acting on them is a contraction in the direction of the visible fibres of the muscle, which in the healthy state always rapidly alternates with relaxation; and by these two circumstances, — the excitation by stimulus, and the quickly ensuing relaxation,—we dis- tinguish that form of Vital Contractility, to which the term Irritability is most correctly applied. The stimuli which produce this efFect are very various; and the experience of our own bodies points out the obvious distinction of these into physical and mental. Of tlie first kind, air and water, especially if aided by heat, act decidedly in this way; but those which have been chiefly used in experiments are, dis- tension, especially in the case of the hollow muscles, such as the heart or bladder,—che- mical acrids, such as acids, alkalies, various alkaline, earthy, or metallic salts,—and elec- tricity or galvanism. The effect of all these stimuli is much increased by their being sud- denly applied. It has also been long known, that many muscles are excited to contraction by such sti- muli, when applied to certain nerves, entering their substance, or to certain parts of the spinal cord or brain, even more effectually than by applications to themselves; and likewise, that it is only when those nerves are entire, up to the brain, that those muscles which are natu- rally obedient to the mental stimulus of the Will, can be excited by voluntary efforts. From these different modes of excitation of the contractile power of muscular parts, diffe- rent names have been given to the power itself, as by Haller, who applied the term Vis Tonica to the contraction from distension, Vis Insita to the contraction from irritation of the muscular fibres themselves, Vis Nervosa to the contraction from irritation of a nerve, and Vis Animalis to the contraction from volition, acting at the brain and transmitted through a nerve; or again by Bichat, who applied the term ContractiUte Orgunique Sensible to the contractions excited by any kind of irritation, acting on muscular fibres themselves, and the term ContractiUte Animale to those excited by stimuli, whether mental or physical, acting on the nerves, spinal cord, or brain. But it is obviously more correct to distinguish the dif- ferent varieties of the vital power according to the phenomena, which the contracting part presents, than according to the manner in which the contractions are excited ; and there- fore those terms have fallen much into disuse. In most instances, it is the same vital power of Irritability, as above defined, which is called into action in these different ways. It is only of late years, that it has been fully ascertained, as to the excitement of vital contractions through nerves : 1, that it is, almost exclusively, in the case of muscles which are naturally subject to the Will, that even physical irritation, confined to the nerves, has power to excite contraction; and 2, that these muscles have nerves, or nervous filaments, from two distinct sources, viz. from the anterior and posterior columns of the spinal cord, and their prolongations within the cranium; and that it is by irritation of the first of these only, (or almost exclusively,) that the muscular con- tractions are excited.* From these facts, it appears obvious, that the grand and eternal law of separation, as Ilaller calls it, of the Vo- luntary and Involuntary muscles, consists essen- tially, not in different powers of the muscular parts, but in different endowments of the ner- vous filaments which enter them. In regard to the excitation of muscular con- traction through nerves, it is also to be ob- served, that although the action of muscles in obedience to the will is the most obvious and striking example, in the living body, where the intervention of a change in a nerve is known to be an essential condition of the act, yet there are many examples of movements, per- formed by voluntary muscles, in obedience to mental stimuli, but not to volitions,—to sensor- tions, or other involuntary acts of mind, even in opposition to efforts of the will. These con- stitute a very important class of vital motions, and are known to be equally excited through the motor nerves of the muscles concerned in them. Of this kind are not only the irregular agitations of the limbs produced by tickling, or the convulsive writhing of the body from pain, but also, such regular and admirably precise movements as shrinking when pain is excited * See Mayo's Outlines, 2d edit. j). 50 ct scq. and Sir C. Bell, Phil. Trans, 1826.