689 cmmiopoDA. stomaclis, and Burmeister once found part of an annelid of unknown species. Tlie food is carried towards the mouth by currents pro- duced by the rapid motions of the arms, which, in most of the species, are constantly Fig. 340. out and drawn alternately, with great regularity. The mouth is situated just at the bottom of the funnel-shaped cavity formed by the spread arms fij^fg. 340). In the Lepads its position is close to the trans- verse adductor muscle. Its jaws form a round protuberance, which presents itself very con- spicuously immediate- ly on separating the arms. It might al- most be regarded as a head, so prominent is itf/g. 341, h,b); but we find it composed only of the lip and jaws, with their muscles. The lip over-arches the jaws ; it is horny, and furnished with minute palpi. There are three pairs of jaws. The first or outer pair are thin horny plates of an oval form, fringed along their opposing sides with long stiff hairs. The other two pairs are curved and deeply serrated on their opposed surfaces. The middle pair bears a small palp on its lateral margin. In some species, a small tongue has been found. All these parts bear a close re- semblance to the same organs in some of the Crustacea. The oesophagus is short; its lining membrane is somewhat horny, stift" enough permanently to distend the whole canal; be- fore entering the stomach, its diameter is con- siderably enlarged. It leceives the ducts of two salivary glands. The stomach (c,Jig. 341) is capacious; externally, it presents an irre- gular mamillated surface, studded with nu- merous small prominences closely set, which are the outer surfaces of hepatic cells, formed in a layer of glandular tissue that closely in- vests the walls of the stomach. These cells communicate directly with its general cavity (o, Jig. 342). There is no other organ that can be regarded as a liver.* Two coecal appen- * Jlurmeister's recent researches have led him to conclude that both the Lepads and the Balanids have large livers. He has satisfied himself that the organs, regarded by Cuvier as the ovaries, and by more recent authorities as the testicles, communicate by ducts with the upper part of the intestinal canal, and not at all with the seminal vessi>ls. Hence he supposes that they are lobes of the liver and not organs of reproduction. Onr own dissections lead us rather to agree with Messrs. Wagner and St. Ange, who believe them to be the testicles. dages, also saccu- lated internally, and embossed outwardly, are attached to the stomach. The intestine is wide, nearly without convolutions, and ta- pering towards the anus {d,e,fig. 341). In the Lepads the stomach is situated in that part of the visceral mass near- est to the peduncle; from which point the intestine runs on the dorsal aspect of the body, and terminates in the anus just at the base of the articulated tubular process. It is slightly dilated near the anus. The walls of the in- testine are perfectly smooth and free from folds and duplications. The number of their tunics cannot be satisfactorily determined. M. St. Ange has described a singular piece of struc- ture which he has found within the intestinal canal of certain Anatifce (c, c, Jig. 342). It is a kind of second intestine, which floats within the cavity of the one just described. It is nearly equal in length to the outer canal. Its upper extremity is expanded, funnel-shaped, with edges cut into fringed processes like the mouths of the Fallopian tube in vertebrate animals. These processes are lodged in the cells of the walls of the stomach, and furnish the only means of attachment to the outer walls with which the organ is provided. It thence tapers towards the anal extremity, where it is pointed and closed. Its walls are very thin and delicate. It is generally filled with alimentary matter, which must pass from its cavity by a kind of rumination, so as to enter the stomach a second time. Circulation.—The sanguiferous system of the Cirripeds has not yet been fully investigated. Only the vessels of the arms, and a central canal, situated on the dorsal aspect of the body, have been discovered. Poli asserted that he saw a heart pulsating a little above the anus : but it does not appear that any other observer has made the same remark. Burmeister has searched, in vain, for a heart, in the large Coro- nula diadema. The vessels of the arms can be distinctly seen through the transparent integu- ments of the ciliated processes; there are, in each process, two vessels, one of which runs very superficially between the two rows of hairs. (Fig. 343.J Cuvier regarded the anterior canal of the peduncle in Anatifa as the nourishing vessel of that organ. ReHpiration.—The principal organs concern- ed in respiration are, in the Lepads, certain tapering filamentary processes attached to the sides of the anterior part of the body, which are regarded as the branchiae (d, g, Jig. 340) : in most of the Balanids, they assume the form of two leaf-like membranes with fringed mar- gins, and are attached to the inner surface of