413 BLOOD. Lastly, the composition of the blood may also vary in the same individual according to a variety of circumstances. Prolonged absti- nence from diluents, for example, tends to di- minish the proportion of the watery particles of the blood, and, consequently, to render it richer in nutrient elements. Bloodletting pro- duces the contrary effect; not only is the mass of circulating fluid by this means diminished, but it is also rendered poorer. Messrs. Prevost and Dumas having bled a cat largely, found its blood to consist of 791 of water, 87 of albumen, and 118 of globules. Two minutes afterwards they repeated the bleeding, and now only found 116 of globules, and 74 of albu- men to 809 of water; after an interval of five minutes more the bleeding was repeated for the third time, and they found the blood to consist of 829 of water, 93 of solid particles, and 77 of albumen. M. Lecanu obtained similar results from the analysis of human blood taken from patients who had been bled several times in quick succession, or who were labouring under ha-morrhagic affections ;* and the circumstance is readily explained, by sup- posing that the diminution of the mass of blood tends to accelerate absorption, the first effect of which must needs be to introduce a much larger proportion of water than of solid particles into the torrent of the circulation. In its ordinary state the blood is always fluid, and consists, as we have seen, of a watery part, holding solid globules in suspen- sion; but under certain circumstances its physical proiserties change completely: this happens whenever it is wnhdrawn from the vessels in which it is contained in the bodies of living animals, or in the event of an animal ceasing to exist. The blood left to itself changes within a few minutes into a mass of a gelatinous con- sistence, which gradually separates into two parts, one fluid, transparent, and of a yel- lowish colour, formed by the serum; another solid, quite opaque, and of a red colour, to which the name of cruor, crussameiitum, or clot is given. The mode in which this phenomenon hap- pens, and the cause that occasions it, have engaged the attention of a great many physio- logists. The experiments of Hunter and of many others show that the coagulation of the blood depends mainly on the cessation of the motion to which it is constantly subjected in the course of the circulation ; for this condition alone suffices to make it coagulate even in the interior of the vascular system, and we are of opinion that the great physiologist just quoted erred in attributing vital properties to the blood. Rest, then, cessation from motion, is that which contributes most generally and most essentially to cause coagulation of the blood ; other circumstances, however, such as its cooling, its being brought into contact with the air, &c. may also contribute to accelerate this phenomenon, which appears, from the experiments of Dr. John Davy, to be unac- companied with any evolution of caloric. * Journal dc Pharmacie, 1831. If a clot of blood be gently kneaded and pressed under a stream of water, it gradually becomes paler, and finally loses its red colour entirely, the colouring matter being washed away; what remains in the hand is a mass of whitish and very elastic filaments composed of fibrine. Or otherwise, if, instead of being left at rest, a quantity of freshly drawn blood be quickly stirred with a bundle of rods, a stringy mass of fibrine will be found adhering to these after a time, and the blood thus treated will not coagulate. This experiment shows that it is to the fibrine that the blood owes its pro- perty of coagulating. The filaments of fibrine studied under the microscope are found to be formed by the aggregation of a multitude of white globules, bearing the greatest resemblance to the central nuclei of the proper globules of the blood. It was, therefore, natural to suppose that the formation of the coagulum depended on the spontaneous decomposition of these globules and the aggregation of their internal corpuscles. And such, indeed, is the theory which Messrs. Prevost and Dumas have given, and which has been adopted by the greater number of the physiologists of the present day. " The at- traction," say they, " which keeps the red matter i^xed around the white globules having ceased along with the motion of the fluid, these globules are left at liberty to obey the force which tends to make them combine and form a net-work, in the meshes or amid the plates of which the colouring matter is included along with a great quantity of particles which have escaped this spontaneous decomposition."* It would appear, however, that this is not an exact explanation of the phenomenon, for Professor Muller, of Berlin, has succeeded in demonstrating that the coagulation of the blood is altogether independent of the globules, and that the fibrine which determines the pheno- menon exists dissolved in the serum. By filter- ing with great care the blood of frogs, diluted with sugar-water, he separated the globules completely from the serum before coagulation took place : the fluid part of the blood alone passed the filter, the solid particles remained upon it; neverthelc'^s, a coagulum formed within the fluid after the lapse of a few mi- nutes; this, of course, was colourless instead of red, as it is when the red globules are en- tangled in the mass. This curious and in- teresting experiment does not succeed so well when liuman blood is employed, inasmuch as the globules, being much smaller than those of the blood of the frog, pass along with the serum through almost any filter that can be used. Still Professor Miiller has succeeded in proving the existence of fibrine in the serum by means of the following procedure. If to a little blood contained in a watch-glass a few drops of a highly concentrated solution of sub- carbonate of potash be added, the coagulation of the fluid is so much retarded, that the glo- bules have time to sink to the bottom before it occurs. When coagulation takes place at * Ann. de Chimic, t. 23, p. 51.