720 CONTRACTILITY. Again, the rapidity of the changes of po- sition of the component particles of muscular fibres may be estimated, although it can hardly be conceived, from various well-known facts. The pulsations of the heart can some- times be distinctly numbered in children at more than 200 in the minute; and as each pulsation of the ventricles occupies only one- third of the time from the commencement of one pulsation to the commencement of the next, this implies that each contraction takes place in yLth part of a minute, or that ten times in each second, for many hours toge- ther, the whole of the convoluted muscular fibres of the ventricles must be thrown into folds, and again smoothed out. Again, it is certain that by the movements of the tongue and other organs of speech, 1500 letters can be distinctly pronounced by some persons in a minute. Each of these distinguishable sounds must require a separate contraction of muscular fibres; and the production and ces- sation of each of these sounds must imply, that each separate contraction must be followed by a relaxation of equal length. Each con- traction must, therefore, have been effected in gj^th part of a minute, or in the 50th part of a second. Haller calculated that in the limbs of a dog at full speed, muscular contractions must take place in less than the 200th part of a second, for at least many minutes in suc- cession.* But the property of Irritability, which acts throughout so great a portion of the animal creation, as a moving power of this extra- ordinary efficiency, is not the only contractile power, which certain organic textures possess, or which the conditions of their existence re- quire them to exert during the living state. Even in muscular fibres themselves, in certain organs, and still more in other textures of animal bodies, contractions are often observed, peculiar to the livmg state, but differing essen- tially from those which come under the defi- nition of Irritability already given. In all the different tribes of animals, indeed, differences in the contractile power of the diffe- rent living solids may be observed, exactly cor- respondmg to their circumstances and wants. The slow and languid movements of the bodies of most of the Zoophyta, and the rapid vibra- tions of the Cilia; with which parts of many of these animals (particularly of the order Infusoria) are provided, are examples, even in the lowest class, of the great variety of moving powers, with which the living solids of different animals are endowed. In the human body, and analogous animals, it is obvious that the contractile power exerted by the stomach and intestines in performing their peristaltic movements, although of the same general characters as that of the heart,— the contraction of each portion of the tube being followed by a relaxation of that portion and a contraction of the portion next in ad- vance,—is yet materially different; both con- * See Hallcr's Elcra. Phys. torn. iv. p. 481. traction and relaxation in the peristaltic move- ment being of longer and less definite du- ration, and of more variable extent. In the bladder and in the uterus, in the healthy state, we see contractions excited by peculiar stimuli, and repeatedly recurring as the actions de- pendent on them proceed, but not alternating with any obvious elongation of the fibres, and terminatmg in a much greater and more per- manent shortening of the contracting fibres, than IS observed in other muscular organs. Again, in the state of any voluntary muscle, when the distance of its extremities is per- manently shortened (as by an ill-united frac- ture), in that of the sphincter muscles, or of an artery when emptied of blood, we see a permanent contraction, requiring no stimulus to excite it, shewing itself whenever a dis- tending or elongating power is withdrawn, and relaxing only at the close of life. The nume- rous experiments of Dr. Parry on the condition of arteries immediately after death (contained in his Treatise on the Arterial Pulse) afford the most precise information that we have as to this last property. From such facts it appears obvious that three distinct modes of contraction, all strictly vital, may be observed in different textures of the body, or even in the same texture under different circumstances: first, that already con- sidered, to which the term Irritabiliti/\sstrkt\y applied, and which is best exemplified in the actions of the voluntary muscles and the heart; secundli/, that which may be termed simple Contractility, where contraction is induced by a stimulus, but takes place more slowly, and is nearly or quite permanent; and, thirdly, that winch has been accurately described by Dr. Parry and others under the title of Toni- city, which requires no stimulus to call it into action, but takes effect whenever a distending power is withdrawn, and continues until life is extinguished. The second of these forms is seen, not only in the bladder and uterus, but in the arteries under certain irri- tations, perhaps in other textures, and pro- bably also (from certain stimuli) in the fibrin of the blood during coagulation.* The last is clearly, as Dr. Parry's experiments have shewn, the chief vital endowment of arteries; and notwithstanding the doubts expressed on the subject by Dr. Bostock, several facts may be stated to show, that it is also an endow- ment of all muscular fibres. Thus, besides the permanent retraction, already noticed, of the fibres of a muscle the fixed extremities of which are approximated,—the retraction of the cut ends of a muscle divided during life,—the state of habitual preponderance of the flexor muscles of the body and limbs (which are the stronger) over the extensors during sleep,f and the stiffening or " roideur cadaverique" of the muscles after death,—seem to be clear indica- tions of a tendency to contraction answering * SeePrater'sExperimental Inquiries in Chemical Physiology. t See Richcrand's Physiology.