ADIPOSE TISSUE, 63 According to the observations of William Hunter, anasarcous dropsy is the only disease in which the fat of the adipose membrane is entirely consumed. " This disorder, when in- veterate, has that effect in such a degree, that we find the heart or mesentery in such subjects as free from fat as in the youngest children." This, however, is in some degree denied by Bichat, who contends that it is not uncommon to find much subcutaneous fat in subjects greatly infiltrated.* It is obvious that much will depend on the stage of the disease. It cannot be expected that the moment serous infiltration appears in the filamentous tissue, all the fat should be at once removed from tlie adipose. The process of absorption is gradual as is that of deposition; and the infe- rence of Hunter may be regarded as nearly exact in reference to Jong-continued, or what he terms inveterate dropsy. It is certain, that while it is very difficult to deprive the bones of ordinary subjects of oil, those of dropsical sub- jects are the only ones which it is possible to obtain free from this substance. In certain diseases, especially those the ter- mination of which is attended with serous effusion into the cavities of the serous mem- brane, the fat is partly absorbed or may be converted into a sort of sero-gelatinous fluid. In chronic dysentery, for example, the subcu- taneous fat and tliat of the heart and omentum, in a great measure disappear, while in their place we find effused an orange-yellow coloured sero-albuminous fluid, of a jelly-like aspect, which coagulates on tlie application of heat or the addition of re-agents. In the bodies of those, also, cut off" by scirrhous disorganization or cancerous ulceration, the greater part of the fat is in like manner absorbed, and in its place appears a dirty orange-yellow coloured sero- albuminous fluid. The removal of the fat from its containing membrane is effected by the process of absorp- tion, the agents of which are supposed by William Hunter, Portal, Bichat, and Mascagni, to be the lympathics. According to the results of the experiments of Magendie, Mayer, Tiede- mann and Gmelin, Segalas and others, it must, in some measure at least, be ascribed to the in- fluence of minute veins. It is a point of some interest to know in what form it is absorbed, whether as oily matter, or after undergoing a process of decomposition The observation of Dr. Traill, above quoted, would lead to the former view; but it is not easy to conceive that this should be uniform. We want, in short, correct facts on the point at issue. 5. Adipose sarcoma.—This consists in an un- usual deposition of firm fatty matter in cells, the component fibres of which are sufficiently firm to give it consistence. The tumour, which is generally globular, is always surrounded by a thin capsule, formed by the condensation of the contiguous filamentous tissue. The tumour is supplied by a few bloodvessels, which pro- ceed from the capsule, but which form so slender an attachment that they are readily * Auaf. Gl'U. vol. i. p. 57. broken, and the tumour is easily scooped from its seat. This sort of tumour occurs almost invariably in the adipose membrane, and seems to consist in a local hypertrophy of the part in which it is found. It may have a broad basis, but is often pendulous, or attached by a narrow neck or stalk. It is the most common form of sarcomatous tumour, and may occur in any part of the body in which there is adipose mem- brane, but is chiefly found on the front and back of the trunk, and not unfrequently on two places at the same time. 6. Steatonia.—-In adipose sarcoma the adi- pose matter is deposited in cells, and the tumour derives a degree of firmness from the fibres with which it is thus traversed in every direction. In other instances, however, the adipose matter is deposited in a mass in the cavity of a spherical or spheroidal cyst, formed in the filamentous or adipose tissue; and the tumour is soft and compressible, and seems to contain fluid or semifluid matter. When cut open it is found to contain a soft semifluid matter of the consistence of honey, but of oily or adipose properties. In such circumstances the inner surface of the cyst, or at least the vessels of this surface, are the agents which secrete the fatty matter. This tumour may occur either in the filamentous or the adipose tissue, but is to be regarded as an example of local deposition of adipose matter. It may appear in any region of the filamentous tissue, but is most frequent about that of the head and face. Small steatoms are not unfrequent in the eyelids and in the scalp. Larger ones are more frequent about the neck. 7. jL;j50w/a.—This name was first applied by Littre to a wen or cyst, filled with soft matter, possessing the usual properties of ani- mal fat. The matter of steatom, according to this surgeon, is either not or imperfectly in- flammable, by reason of its degeneration or commixture with some other animal secretion. The propriety of this distinction has been de- nied by Louis and others, who maintain that these tumours differ in nothing, unless per- haps in degree. It has been favoured, never- theless, by Morgagni, and adopted by Plenck, Desault, Bichat, and various foreign surgeons, and is defended by Boyer, who represents the steatom as diflTering from lipoma in the matter being white, firm, and changed from its origi- nal character, and in possessing the tendency to degenerate into cancer. Plenck had previ- ously distinguished the lipoma by its being destitute of a cyst, a circumstance not required by Littrc. Though thus admitted to differ, the anato- mical character, as given by Morgagni, and confirmed by Boyer, is in both nearly the same : a cyst, containing unchanged fat, or granular adipose matter, in cells formed by the original fibres of the adipose membrane, ac- cording to Morgagni, or those of the filamen- tous tissue, according to Boyer. At the base or stalk, in the case of pendulous steatom, the cells are compressed, but loose in the body of the tumour. This description, with the alleged cancerous