CELLULAR TISSUE. 610 strictus, t. celbilurU stipatus), because it is roper to the several constituent parts of the ody, investing each of them, and penetrating into their internal structure. Of the common cellular membrane.—It is in this division that the connection to which we have just referred is most free. Thus in the subcutaneous tissue placed between the skin and the fasciae of the muscles, there is an uni- versal and evident communication. Again, in the head, the cellular membrane of the exter- nal parts communicates with that of the internal through all the natural apertures—through the foramina of the base and other regions of the skull. From the face and cranium the con- nexion may readily be traced to the neck, whence, after having pervaded all its parts, it passes in one direction behind the sternum and upper ribs to the thoracic cavity; and in another underneath the clavicle and scapula on either side, to the arm-pit, which may be re- garded as the common point of junction be- tween the cellular substmce of the neck, the trunk, and upper extremity. The cellular tissue of the thorax is continuous with that of the abdomen through the openings of the diaphragm, and pai'ticularly beneath the sternum, around the aorta, the inferior vena cava, and the cesophagus. In a similar manner the connexion may be followed from the abdo- men to the pelvis; from the former of these cavities under the crural arch to the inguinal region, which constitutes the point of union between the trunk and the lower extremity; whilst from the pelvis the communication ex- tends in one direction by the side of the rectum and urethra to the perineum, scrotum, and penis ; and in another by the obturator fora- men and the ischiatic notch to the thigh. In addition to these, which are the principal connexions, the common cellular membrane is united in every direction with the special di- vision ; the details, however, of tliese commu- nications belong to the descriptive anatomy of the several regions, to the articles on which the reader is referred. The quantity of the interstitial tissue varies according to the age and temperament of the individual, and to the region of the body in which it is examined; but, independently of any original differences which exist, it is well known that the mode of living and habits of the individual have a great influence in this respect: thus an habitual full diet, especially if con- joined with indolence, causes a great accumu- lation of the cellular substance; whilst, on the contrary, a spare or moderate diet and exercise will reduce it in a remarkable degree These differences depend, probably, more on the accu- mulation of serous fluid and on the repletion of the bloodvessels, than on the actual increase of the proper filamentous tissue: we can in this manner, and in no other, under-tand how, by by what in England is called training, the bulk of the body may be so rapidly diminished. The proportion of this tissue varies also in the different regions of the body ; but as it is in an especial manner subservient to the pro- <luction of free motion, it is principally accu- mulated in those parts which are most move- able. It is on this account that it abounds on the face, especially around the globe of the eye and about the cheeks, and also on the forepart of the neck and of the trunk in general. In the limbs it is met with in considerable quantity in the flexures of the joints, in the axilla, the elbow, the wrist, and in the palm of the hand; also in the groin, in the ham, in the front of the ankle, and in the sole of the foot. The super- ficial muscles, which are very moveable, are separated from each other by thicker layers of membrane than the deeper-seated and more fixed. It may also be remarked that those important organs, which are most liable by their structure or connexions to rupture or other effects of external violence, are carefully pro- tected by being lodged in a large quantity of cellular substance. It is thus that we find the pancreas and the kidneys enveloped in this tissue in the abdomen; the bladder and genital organs in the pelvis ; and the bloodvessels and nerves in all parts of the body. 0/the special cellular membrane. — Each organ in the body is invested in a proper cover- ing of the cellular tissue, and also receives into its interior, processes which envelope and join together its component parts. The investing cellular membrane (t.cellu- laris strictus) is united by one of its surfaces, the external, with the general cellular tissue, and by the other or internal with that entering into the organ. It presents many j)eculiarities as to the mode of its connexion ; the solid parts, for instance, as the glands, muscles, and nerves, are entirely surrounded by cellular envelopes; and a somewhat similar disposition is observed around the bloodvessels, lympiia- tics, and excretory tubes. On the contrary, the skin, the mucous and serous membranes, having one surface free or unattached, are only connected on one side with the cellular tissue, which is distinguished according to its situation, by the terms subcutaneous, submucous, and subserous cellular tissue. The covering thus afforded to each individual organ serves in a certain degree to insulate and separate it from the surrounding structures, and in this manner it often tends to limit the progress of disease; but as we have just seen that this covering is united both to the interstitial and to the pene- trating cellular tissue, it would be equally con- trary to reason and experience to expect that it should constitute, as some authorities have con- tended that it does, a species of atmosphere around the various organs, confining their natu- ral actions and morbid phenomena. The penetrating cellular tissue (t. ctlluluris stipatus) constitutes so essential a part of organized structures, that there is no organ in which it may not be detected. It exists in the substance of bone, cartilage, and ligament, although it is distinguished in these structures with difficulty, in consequence of their great density ; it penetrates between the most minute fibres of the muscles and nerves; between the coats of the bloodvessels and lymphatics ; also between the layers composing the skin and mucous membranes; and lastly, it enters into