130 ANIMAL. the species is represented, as they are confided to one among vegetables, which is, therefore, singly the type of its kind. In both classes, indeed, there are exceptions to this general law : the flowers of all vegetables do not contain stamina and pistilla, or male and female organs, neither are the opposite sexes invariably repre- sented by two different individuals among animals. In many plants the male organs are known to exist in one flower, the female in another, but both developed on the same branch ; in many others, again, they exist on dif- ferent stems, and are often evolved widely apart from one another. In the same manner, many of the lower tribes of animals include within their individual organisms male and female organs; this is the case with several tribes of the genus mollusca, gasteropoda, the helix, limax, and lepas, for instance, with the whole of the extensive classes of the annelida, en- tozoa, echinodermata, &c. But though there be resemblance to this extent among vegetables and animals in regard to organs, in the act by which fecundation is accomplished there is a wide and essential difference; for whilst vegetables impregnate themselves, or, rather, whilst the impregnation of vegetables is a purely passive process, with- out perception of or concurrence in its accom- plishment on their parts,—the pollen of the anthers of those flowers that have male and female organs being simply shed upon the pistilla, the impregnation of animals, so far as our knowledge goes, appears to be almost as generally a consequence of a connexion be- tween two different individuals, and of volition with consciousness on their several parts. Although many animals have both male and female parts included within the same organism, it would seem that comparatively few have the power of impregnating themselves: two in- dividuals of the like species meet, and give and take reciprocally ; so that there is, in fact, much less difference between the highest and the lowest tribes of the animal kingdom in the essentials by which races are continued, than at first sight appears, much less certainly than there is between the vegetables and animals that are most nearly allied. The modes in which fecundation takes place in vegetables at large,and in animals probably without exception, are inherently and essentially distinct : an her- maphrodite animal is still a very different thing from an hermaphrodite flower. Another difference between vegetables and animals, less important, indeed, but still in- teresting, lies in the number of the organs pos- sessed by each destined for the continuation of the species. In many vegetables the organs are single, one flower being taken as a repre- sentative of the sexes; in a much larger pro- portion of plants, however, the organs are mul- titudinous. Among animals, on the contraiy, with a few exceptions in the very lowest tribes, the asterias, &c. where they are multidinous, the essential male and female organs, the testes and ovaria, exist singly or in pairs only. A third diversity, and one that is striking and almost universal, between those species of plants and animals in which the sexes are represented by two individuals, lies in the difference of conformation, size, and general character of the individuals in the one class, and their perfect similarity in the other. There are very few dioecious plants the males of which are distinguishable from the females; there are very few tribes of animals, on the contrary, in which the distinction of sex is not extremely apparent, the males being generally larger, stron£;er, and more courageous; the females smaller, more delicately formed, and more timid in their disposition.* A fourth distinction which deserves to be noted betwixt animals and vegetables is in the diversity of the act by which the new being is separated from the parent, and commences its independent existence. The period at which this happens, indeed, is determinate, and fixed in both alike, but it is accompanied with con- sciousness among animals, whilst it is alto- together unwittingly accomplished among ve- getables. From this review of the mode in which animals and vegetables are called into being, or of the acts which lead to their creation, the main and most striking difi'erences observable in the two classes are these : whilst in vegeta- bles the whole of the acts that constitute re- production,—the union of the sexes, the fe- cundation of the ovum, and the birth of the new being are accomplished without the will and without the consciousness of the indi- vidual, but irresistibly and necessarily, they are left in some particulars, at least, to the will, and take place with the consciousness of the individuals among animals. Nutrition, or the acts by which the indi- vidual is preserved.—Every thing in nature changes, and organized beings only con- tinue their existence with their aptitudes to manifest the acts that draw so wide a line of demarcation betvveen them and unor- ganized bodies, by a perpetual renewal or re- composition, and as incessant a rejection or decomposition of their elements. Nutrition is, therefore, at least, a two-fold act, implying absorption or appi'opriation of nutritive matter, and excretion or rejection of the old and worn- out particles that have already served their office in the economy : it consists, in fact, as we have said, of an incessant decomposition and reconstruction of the fabric of the living organized being. Nutrition, however, is a very comprehensive term, and includes the whole of the vital acts by which the individual continues * One of the most striking exceptions to this law occurs among some especially of the smaller species of the birds of prey. In many of these the female is much more powerful, heavier, and even more courageous than the male. The care of the off- spring, by one of nature's ordinances, devolving principally upon the female, the supply of flesh for the brood—a supply procured by violence— might often have failed had she not in these tribes been provided with superior strength and courage to insure its regularity and abundance.