101 AMPHIBIA. ments of the spinal cord are observed to take place, and the contraction of the coccygeal ver- tebrae into a single linear bone, is accompanied by a corresponding diminution in the length of that part of the spinal marrow, which at length only extends, in the form of a small filament, into the anterior third of that bone. Tlie inferior condition of the brain which has been described as existing in the tadpole of the higher species, is permanent in the proteus and other perennibranchiate genera; so that the brain of the animal just named bears a very obvious resemblance to that of the larva of the aquatic salamander or triton. VIII. The organ of vision.—The eye differs considerably in its form and magnitude in dif- ferent genera of the amphibia, and without any very apparent relation to either their habits or their circumstances. In the frogs and some others they are remarkably large and prominent; in the salamanders they are comparatively small, though from their at least equally aquatic iiabits, this difference might perhaps have scarcely been anticipated, and in the cflecilia, as the name imports, the eyes are scarcely if at all visible. In the latter animal the same object has doubtless been intended by this absence of vision, as in the mole and many otiier ani- mals, whose common subterranean mode of life would render the possession of acute sight not only generally useless, but an extreme inconvenience on their occasional appearance above the surface. In some points of their structure the eyes of the amphibia are not remotely related to those of the fishes ; as, for instance, in the flattened anterior surface of most of them, arising from the small supply of the aqueous humour, and in the depth of the crystalline. In some of the lower forms, there can scarcely be said to be a true orbit, the eyes being fixed as it were in the integuments, and surrounded by a mass of minute veins, intermixed with extremely small branches of nerves. Rusconi states that in the proteus he was not able to discover muscles, nor even the optic nerve ; though on carefully and gently raising the hemispheres of the brain a minute nervous filament was seen going to- wards the foramen which serves for the passage of the ophthalmic artery; but whether this was the optic nerve or not, appears a matter of entire doubt. In fact, the structure of the eye in this animal, on the whole, is very imperfect. In the frog, on the contrary, tlie eye is fully developed, and all the essential parts of its structure sufficiently conspicuous. The globe of the eye is large and projecting; the scle- rotic is considerably solid and tough, and semi- transparent ; the cornea is large, and though somewhat flattened, is much less so than in fishes, or in the lower forms of the elass. The inner surface of the choroid is extremely black, and the external of a silvery whiteness. The ciliary processes have not with certainty been discovered in these animals, unless, as Altena suggests, a little tubercular mass, occupying nearly their situation, and closely connected with the edge of the choroid and with the cap- sule of the crystalline, may be a modification of this structure. The iris is covered on its posterior surface with pigmentum nigrum ; the anterior having a shining metallic lustre, pre- cisely similar to that which we see in fishes. The contractility of the pupil asserted by Carus is denied by Altena and others. The retina is thick, and covers the whole internal surface to the capsule of the crystalline. The vitreous humour is, in proportion, abundant, and the lens is large and of a spheroidal shape, consisting of numerous concentric laminae, en- closing a nucleus of extreme density, exhibiting a close relation to the state of this part in fishes. There are in the frog three palpebrae; or perhaps, with greater strictness of analogy, it might be said that there are two palpebrse, and a sort of expansion of the inferior, serving as a mcmbrana nictituns. The superior pal- pebra is small, and is not possessed of any degree of mobility; the inferior is broad, ex- panded, and semitransparent. It has an in- ternal membranous expansion, which has just been alluded to, and which is capable of cover- ing the whole ei/cluill. IX. T/ie organ of hearing.—The function of hearing exists in very different degrees in the different groups of amphibia. The aquatic habits to which the lower forms are confined by their branchial respiration, would render an acute perception of sonorous impulses as unne- cessary as it would be incompatible with the dense medium in which they live; and we find in this sense, as in every other function of the body, the most perfect concord existing be- tween the habits of the animal and its structural arrangements. The pisciform aquatic genera of this class, therefore, are found to possess as near an affinity to the fishes in the structure of the organ in question as in most others ; and in this they are also imitated by the tadpole state of the higher reptiliform groups, the adult condition of whicli exhibits a much more ad- vanced development of the acoustic organ. In the proteus and the allied genera, there is neither a tympanic cavity, nor membrana tym- pani; it consists of a large cavity hollowed as it were out of the temporal bone, at the bottom of which cavity is the sacculus with its creta- ceous body ; the fenestra oval is is closed by a bony lamina, the representative of the stapes. Behind the sacculus are the membranous semi- circular canals. The whole organ is covered externally by the integuments, without any pos- sible communication with the atmosphere. In the frog, on the other hand, the whole structure is more complicated. The sacculus, which is membranaceous, is filled with the cretaceous matter, which is here semifluid, having the appearance of cream. The semi- circular canals are contained within the sub- stance of the temporal bone. The ossicula auditus are three, united, and contained within the tympanum, which they traverse, and are attached to the membrana tympani, a broad round membrane, perfectly superficial, and very distinct from the surrounding integument. The cavity of the tympanum is not capacious. It