CEPHALOPODA. 535 along that canal, being gradually lost in its inner membrane, the lamina next the gizzard is peculiarly enlarged, so as evidently to pre- sent an obstacle to the regurgitation of bile towards the gizzard. The inner surface of the rest of the intestinal canal presents a few lon- gitudinal rugae, with slightly marked transverse puckerings. In the Dibranchiate Cephalopods the gul- let, in consequence of the position of the stomach near the lower part of the visceral sac, is of great length (a, a, Jig. 221), but varies in this respect according to the form of the animal. We have seen that in the Nautilus it is dilated into a pyriform crop; a similar dilatation occurs in the genus Octo- pus; but its position is reversed, the larger end of the sac being uppermost, and probably as the result of the habitually reversed position of the animal with the head downwards, the crop is extended into a large cul-de-sac above the part where the oesophagus opens into it {b. Jig. 220). From this part the crop gradually contracts to its termination. In the Argonaut the crop commences by a similar lateral dilatation, but is continued of almost uniform breadth to the stomach. In the Sepia, Sepiola, Rossia, Onyclwteuthis, Loligopsis, and Loligo, and probably in the other Decapods, there is no crop, tlie gullet being continued of uniform breadth to the stomach {a, a, fig. 221).* The stomach (c, figs. 220, 221,) in all the Dibranchiate Cephalopods is a more or less elongated sac, having its two orifices, the car- dia (rf) and pylorus (e), close together at the anterior or upper part of the sac, as in the gizzard of birds : the muscular fibres are simi- larly disposed, and radiate from two opposite tendons; they form a stratum of about the same thickness as in the stomachs of omnivo- rous birds. The epithelium, which is con- tinued from the oesophagus and crop (a, b', fig. 220) acquires a greater thickness in the gizzard, and is disposed in longitudinal rugse ; it is readily detached from the muscular tunic. The intestine, at a short distance from the pylorus, communicates with a glandular and laminated sac, analogous to the pyloric ap- pendages in Fish, but which in the Cephalo- pods is always single. In the Nautilus, we have shewn that this rudimental pancreas (p, fig- 219) is of a sim- ple globular form, as in the Doris and some other Gasteropoda. It presents a similar form in Rossia and Loligopsis, in the latter of which it is of large size (g, fig. 223). In Argo- nauta it is triangular; in some species of * From this difference I conclude that Aristotle took his description of the digestive viscera of the Malakia from the Sepia or TeuthU: he says, Mna Js TO i7Ts'|U« txounv o'.a-oifayit fj-anfov xal (Ttevov, opviflaiJn. " After the mouth they have a long and narrow oesophagus, then a large round gizzard similar to that of a bird."—Hist, de Anim. lib. iv. c. 1.9. But it is evident that he also had dissected the Octopus, as he afterwards notices the difference in the position of the ink-bag, which occurs in this genus aa compared with the Sepia. Loligo, as in the Loligo communis, it is ex- tended into a long pyriform membranous bag, but in the Loligo sugittata, Sepia, and Octopus, it is elongated and twisted spirally, whence it is compared by Aristotle to the shell of a Whelk Cf, figs. 220, 221). In each of these Fig. 221. Alimentary canal of the Sagittated Calamary.'* genera its cavity is occupied by glandular laminae {g, g) ; the biliary ducts terminate be- tween two of the largest folds, which make a curve as they pass into the intestine, and are continued, gradually diminishing in size, along the canal, presenting at its commencement two tumid projections, which tend to prevent a regurgitation of bile towards the pylorus. The intestine in the Nautilus makes a loop, or narrow fold upon itself before it is continued forwards to the base of the funnel. In the Octopus it is characterized by a similar fold, but in the Cuttle-fish and Cala- mary the gut is continued in a straight line from the stomach to the vent («, i, fig. 221), and is consequently very short and simple: in both cases it maintains nearly a uniform diameter to its termination. The internal tunic of the intestine is dis- posed in longitudinal folds, of which the two at its commencement, above described (i, i, fig. 220), are the most conspicuous. The lon- gitudinal rugae in the Sepioteuthis and Cala- * Home, Lectures on Comp. Anat. pi, Ixxxiii.