506 CAVITY. in it, whether originating in the wall or in the coecum. There is no part of the intestinal canal in which accumulations are more likely to take place than in the coecum; and it is now pretty well ascertained by the researches of various observers that inflammation is often pro- pagated from the coecum distended with har- dened faeces to the cellular tissue and muscles of the iliac fossa, thus exciting abscess, which may open either externally through the abdo- minal parietes or internally into the coecum.* By careful manual examination of the anterior abdominal wall corresponding to this fossa, we are in general able to detect even a slight distension of the coecum, and percussion em- ployed here will often afford considerable assistance in forming a diagnosis. The ver- miform appendix of the coecum frequently hangs down into the pelvic cavity connected to the ccecum by a fold of serous membrane; at other times it lies in the iliac fossa, being folded up under cover of a projecting portion of the ccEcum, sometimes as a natural result, and at others as an effect of morbid adhe- sions. The lefl iliac fossa contains the sigmoid flexure of the colon, which from its cylindrical form, as well as f^rom the circumstance of its being in general much contracted, does not occupy that region to the same extent as the right side is filled by the ccecum. The sig- moid flexure is here connected by a mesocolon similar to that of the descendmg colon, and its relations to the other parts contained in the iliac fossa are pretty much the same as those of the coecum on the right side. In the centre of the hypogastric region we observe that the posterior wall is formed by the last lumbar vertebra and the promontory of the sacrum, and this region is open below, whereby it com- municates with the pelvis through the superior outlet. Hence along the posterior wall we find the rectum with its mesorectum,the middle sacral artery, and the hypogastric plexus of nerves; and some of the pelvic viscera under particular conditions pass forwards into this region, and even admit of being examined during life through the anterior wall. Thus the bladder under distension comes forward, and, as the distension increases, ascends, so as often to occupy the whole of this region to the ex- clusion of its natural contents; so also the uterus. The vas deferens in the male and the round ligaments of the uterus in the female, and in both the obliterated umbilical arteries, the urachus and the spermatic vessels, are also among the parts belonging to the hypogastric region. The preceding account of the abdominal cavity as it is found upon dissection, has re- ference chiefly to the adult male subject; but there are certain differences in the relations and positions of parts, dependent on sex and age, to which it is highly important to pay due * See Dance in Rep. Gen. d'Anat. et de Phys. t. iv. p. 74; MeDieve, Arch. Gen. de Med. t. xvii.; and Fcrrall, Ed. Med. and Suig. Journal. No. 108. attention. In the adult female, the chief dif- ference arises out of the great size of the pelvis and the consequent increase in the magnitude of the lower part of the abdomen, the trans- verse measurement of which will be found to exceed that of the epigastric region, more especially where that region has been arti- ficially compressed and consequently dimi- nished in its capacity, by the custom of wear- ing tight stays. During pregnancy, which, as being a natural change, may be not inap- propriately noticed here, the female abdomen experiences a very considerable alteration in its form, capacity, direction, the relations of its organs, and the order of its circulation. In the first month," says Blandin, " it seems to contract, and its walls to fall in upon themselves; but afterwards opposite changes take place. By reason of the resistance offered by the pelvis, when the uterus begins to in- crease, and especially when it has acquired a certain size, it makes, as it were, a protrusion upwards, and is carried into the supra-pelvic part of the abdominal cavity, which it dilates, especially in front, in consequence of which the obliquity of the axis of that cavity for- wards is diminished. The dilated uterus is placed entirely in front, behind the anterior abdominal wall, and presses the small intestine and omentum towards the spine: the omen- tum, however, is sometimes, though rarely, found in front of the uterus. The diaphragm is also pushed upwards and raised as high as the level of the sixth dorsal vertebra: all the peritoneal folds of the uterus are obliterated ; the peritoneum no longer descends into the pelvic excavation, the bladder and the rectum are strongly compressed,, and are in some de- gree impeded in performing their functions; the uterus itself is inclined to one side, in con- sequence of the projection of the vertebral column, and generally to the right side, which, according to Chaussier, is attributable to the greater shortness of the round ligament of the right side. Notwithstanding all this enlarge- ment of the abdominal cavity, the viscera are compressed more strongly than usual, and can become protruded with greater facility, when the distended and attenuated walls have lost much of their power of resistance. The nor- mal irritation of which the uterus is the seat, causes a greater afflux of blood into the whole inferior part of the vascular system, and into its own vessels in particular."* During the development and growth of the walls of Ihe abdominal cavity some interesting changes are observed to take place in its shape, capacity, and in the positions of the contained viscera. The most remarkable characteristic of the abdomen at the earliest period is its very great capacity when compared with the other cavities; this arises from thegreatdevelopmentof its contained organs. This great size, however, is manifest entirely in the umbilical region, for neither the epigastric nor the hypogastric can be said to exceed their proportional magnitude in the adult. On the contrary, both these * Blandin, Anat. Topog. p. 431.