36 ACALEPHiE. of any other class of marine animals: they exist in all seas; and yet we remain very ignorant with regard to several points in their structure and history. The peculiar nature of their tissues, the singular arrangementsof their organs, the anomalies in their functions, present as many objects of interesting inquiry to the physiologist, as the wonderful variety and striking elegance of their forms, and their splendid colouring present to the admiration of the naturalist. Peron,* in his animated description of the Me- dusa, observes, "Among the animals of this family we find the most important functions of life performed in bodies which offer to the eye little more than a mass of jelly. They grow fre- quently to a large size, soas to measure several feet indiameter; andyetwe cannot always determine what are their organs of nutrition. They move with rapidity, and continue their motions for a long time ; and yet we cannot always satis- factorily demonstrate their muscular system. Their secretions are frequently very abundant, and yet the secreting organs remain to be dis- covered. They seem to be too weak to seize any vigorous animal, and yet fishes are sometimes their prey. Their delicate stomachs appear to be wholly incapable of acting upon such food, and yet it is digested within a very short time. Most of them shine at night with great bril- liancy, and yet we know little or nothing of the nature of the agent which produces so re- markable an effect, or of the organs by which it is elaborated. And, lastly, many of them sting the hand which touches them ; but how, or by what means, they do so still remains a mystery." It is, therefore, but a very imperfect account of the anatomy and physiology of this class that can be at present given. The following are the names and characters of the groups into which the acalephae have been divided by M. De Blainville,t whose arrangement is nearly the same as that adopted by Eschscholtz.| I. Physograda. Body regular, symme- trical, bilateral, fleshy, contractile, often very long, provided with an aeriferous sac. Bran- chiae in the form of long cirri, very con- tractile. 1. Organ of natation simple and lamellated. Gen. Physalus. (P/ii/salia, Lam.) 2. Locomotive organs complex and vesicular. Gen. Pliyssophora. Diphysa. Rhizophysa. 3. Locomotive organs in the form of smooth scales, disposed in transverse series. Gen. Stephanomia. Agalma. Protomedea. Rho- dophysa. II. DiPHYDA. Body bilateral and symme- trical, composed of a visceral mass of small size and of two swimming organs, hollow, * Peron. Ann. dii Mus. xiv. 220. t Diet, des Sc. Nat. " Zoophytes." 1830. i System der Acalephen. Berlin, 1829. The most complete treatise on the anatomy and history of the acalepha hitherto published. Its learned author enjoyed excellent opportunities of studying these animals in the course of the two voyages round the world undertaken by Kotzebue, of whose expeditions he was naturalist. contractile, somewhat cartilaginous, and placed one before the other, the anterior one being in more direct connexion with the central visceral mass, which it seems to surround; the other posterior, and very slightly adherent. Mouth at the extremity of a stomach more or less extensile. Anus unknown. A long filamentary organ, ovigerous, rises from the root of the central mass, and is prolonged more or less posteriorly. Gen. Cucubalus. Cucullus. Cymba. Cu- boides. Enneagona. Amphiroa. Calpe. Abyla. Diphyes. Ersaea. Eudoxia. Py- ramis. Praia. Tetragona. Sulculeolaria. Galeolaria. Rosacea. Noctiluca. Doliolum. III. CiLiOGRADA. (Ctenophorm, Esch.) Body gelatinous, free, varying in form, marked on the surface with narrow ambulacra formed by rows of vibratile cilia. Intestinal canal complete, with two orifices.* Gen. Beroe. Eucharis. Mnenia. Cal- ymma. Axiotoma. Callianira. Pandora. Medea. Alcynoe. Cestum. Cydippe. Idya. IV. PuLMOGRADA. (Discophora, Esch.) Body entirely gelatinous, circular, without any solid part internally, margin provided with cirri of various forms, or with foliace- ous appendages pendent from the inferior surface. 1. Simple: without true tentacula, peduncles or arms. Gen. Eudora. Ephyra. Phorcynia. Eu- lymene. Carybdea. Euiyale. 2. Tentaculated : the circumference of the body, and sometimes the mouth, surrounded by tentacula. Gen. Berenice. Equorea. Foveolia. Pe- gasia. Cunina. iEgina. Eurybdia. Thau- mantias. Obelia. Linuche. Eirene. 3. Subproboscic: gastric cavity prolonged into a short peduncle, at the extremity of which is the mouth, surrounded by four brachial appendages. Gen. Oceania. Aglaura. Melicerta. Sa- phenia. Tima. 4. Proboscic: the lower and central part of the body prolonged into a proboscis-like appendage, either simple or provided with arms. Gen. Orythia. Geryonia. Diancea. Fa- vonia. Cytaeis. 5. Biachigerous: lower surface furnished with more or less numerous appendages, bra- chial, ramified. Gen. Ocyroe. Cassiopea. Medusa (Au- relia of Peron), Callirhoij. Melitea. Eva- gora. Cephea. Rhizostoma. Chrysaora. Cyanea. Pelagia. Sthenonia. V. CiRRiGRADA. (Velellida, Esch.) * M. De Blainville regards the animals included in this and the two preceding sections as being more allied in structure to the Mollusca, (his Mala- cozoaires,) than to the Radiata, wilh which they are arranged by most zoologists. Accordingly he sepa- rates them from the two succeeding sections, which are truly radiate animals, and of which he forms a class in his great division Aciinozoaires, under the name of Arachnoderma.