ARACHNIDA. 20,5 gins of which adhere to the horny circle or peritrema of the stigma before described. We here subjoin figures copied from those of Professor MijUer of Berlin, which represent these parts in a scorpion. Fig. 87 shows one of Fig. 87. ddddddddd dd d an infinite num- ber of small holes, between which in the centre we may remark a larger circular plate .) Each little aperture is as it were stellated at the margins (f,) by which the air penetrates the body and gets into the trache2e. These tracheae are ana- logous in struc- ture and posi- tion to those of insects;they are elastic, ramify after the man- ner of vessels in the interior of the body, and penetrate to even the minutest organs. With regard to the internal respiratory organs of the Pulmonary Aruchnidans they have a very different character; presenting the ap- pearance of membranous sacs formed by la- mellee applied to one another like the leaves of a book, each of these little receptacles opens into a common cavity, the membranous mar- the pulmonary branchiee entire, seen in profile: a is the edge by which it adheres to the circum- ference of the stigma; h the simple membrane without folds; c the folds or leaves. Fig. 88 shows a portion of the same pulmonary hranchia laid open: a is the horny margm of the stigma, or peritrema, to which the simple membrane b adheres; e the common cavity into which each of the spaces opens which are formed by the laminae. These organs resemble closely in their struc- ture the branchial laminae, and hence Trevi- ranus and Meckel compare them to branchiae. Miiller on the other hand maintains that they are lungs, because, he says, they can be dis- tended with air. The name of pulmonary branchiae, which we have given them, seems to reconcile the two contending opinions, although we believe that the distinction between lungs and gills is in itself of very slight importance when applied to articulate animals. It is, for example, quite impossible to establish such a distinction in certain crustaceans, as the Onis- ais, the Asellus, the Ci/mothoa, which are all provided with organs oi~^<r<. analogous structure, although some live in water, and others in air more or less humid. Moreover, certain crabs, as the terrestrial species called Cancer Uca, Ruricola, &c., of Linnaeus, possess branchiae which are much better adapted for respiration in air than in water. The Cancer Meenas, so common on our coasts, is almost in the same case, since it passes a great part of its life out of the sea, and it is well known that lobsters and shrimps can live a long time out of water, provided that the air in which they are kept is humid. M. Milne Edwards and myself have demonstrated, by decisive experiments, the conditions in which the branchiae in these animals act as lungs. Circulating system. — The function of cir- culation, which is always so intimately con- nected with that of respiration, presents, as might be supposed, two different conditions in the arachnidans. Those which breathe by means of tracheae have not an apparent circu- lation ; and in this respect they resemble in- sects :—we attribute to them simply a dorsal vessel without any ramifications. Those, on the contrary, which possess branchial lungs,