AVES. 300 the human brain ; they have most resemblance, however, to the latter bodies. With respect to the substance of which the brain of birds is composed, we may observe that the bodies analogous to the cor-pora striata do not merit that name, as there are no alterna- ting striae of grey and white matter. In this respect the bird's brain resembles that of the cold-blooded ovipara and of the human foetus. The substance of the cerebellum does present the admixture of the two substances, or arbor vita' (q), but in a less complicated degree than in mammalia. The brain in birds is invested with the same membranes as are described in Mammalia. Medulla spinalis.—The spinal cord is con- tinued from the foramen magnum to the canal formed by the coccygeal vertebrae, where, how- ever, it becomes extremely attenuated, and corresponds in extent to the shortness of that division of the vertebral column, terminating in a mere filament which expends itself in distributing a few pairs of nerves through the coccygeal foramina. As in the Mammalia, it appears externally to be composed of the white or medullary matter, but contains a small pro- portion of grey substance internally. It is of a cylindrical figure, and as in the cold-blooded ovipara, it is of great length in proportion to the brain. An anterior and posterior fissure may be distinguished, and also a narrow canal which extends through its entire length. Two enlargements occur in the course of the spinal cord, one corresponding to the wings, the other to the legs; and from these swellings the nerves of the brachial and sacral plexuses come off respectively. As might be expected, therefore, these enlargements present differ- ences of relative size corresponding to the dif- ferent relative development and powers of the anterior and posterior extremities. In general the posterior enlargement is greater than the anterior; and this difference is very remarkable in the Struthious birds in which the whole business of progression falls upon the posterior extremities. Besides the difference in size, the spinal enlargements or ganglions, as they may be termed, differ also in structure; at the anterior, alar, or thoracic enlargement (r, Jig. 134) the spinal cord merely receives an accession of grey and white medullary substance ; but at the beginning of the sacral swelling (s,fg. 134) the canal of the cord enlarges m a remark- able manner, so that the lateral cords separate from one another posteriorly or above, pre- cisely as they do to form the fourth cerebral ventricle: the cavity or spinal ventricle (s, Jig. 134:) thus formed, is filled with a serous fluid inclosed in a pia mater. From the figure of this cavity it has been termed the ' Simis rhomboidalis.' Of the Nerves.—The cerebral nerves cor- respond in number to those of the Mammalia. The principal difference of form and structure is presented in the olfactory or jirst pair (1, Jig. 13.5.) These nerves are of a cylin- drical figure and small extent, being continued from the anterior extremity or apex of the hemispheres. Instead of separating into fila- ments to pass out of the skull by a cribriform lamella, each nerve is continued along an osseous canal, accompanied by a venous trunk, as far as the pituitary membrane of the supe- rior spongy bone upon which its filaments are distributed in a radiated manner. The optic nerves (2, Jigs. 135, 137,) are in general of remarkable size ; they arise from the whole of the outer surface of the optic lobes, and form in front of the infundibulum, a perfect union, or chiusma, (2*,fg. 137,) in which, on making a horizontal section, some transverse striae may be perceived, apparently resulting from the decussating fibrils of the nerves. The distribution of the third, (3, Jigs. 135, 137,) Jourth, (4, fgs. 135, 137,) and sixth cerebral nerves, {6, Jigs. 135, 137,) is almost the same as in Mammalia. The course of the fourth pair, immediately above the supra- orbital branch of the fifth pair is shown at 4*, Jig. 137, as far as its termination in the superior oblique muscle to which it is, as in other vertebrata, exclusively distributed. The fij'th or trigeminal nerve {5, Jigs. 135, 137) has nearly the same distrilDution as in Mammalia. The first 01- ophthalmic division {5*, Jig. 137) passes out of the cranium by a peculiar canal situated externally to the optic foramen. It is of large size, and describes in its passage through the orbit a curve corresponding to the roof of that cavity; it generally penetrates the substance of the facial bones above the nasal fossae. It divides into three branches ; the jirst or supe- rior is the smallest and is lost upon the pitui- tary membrane; the second branch is the largest of the three and the longest; it is re- ceived into an osseous canal, passes over the nasal organs, and terminates at the extremity of the beak in a great number of divisions; the third branch of the ophthalmic nerve is entirely distributed to the skin which covers the circumference of the external nostrils. The second division, or superior maxillari/ nerve passes out of the same foramen as the in- ferior one (at 5", Jig. 137,) immediately above the tympanic bone or os gttadratum ; it passes forwards along the floor of the orbit, and in this part of its course gives off two filaments, of which one joins the ramifications of the ophthalmic nerve, the other ascends, penetrates the substance of the pterygoid muscles and the maxillary bone, to be lost on the lateral parts of the bill. In those birds, as the Anatidtp and other Water-fowl, where the upper mandible is notched on the edge, each denticu- lation receives four or five nervous filaments, and the nerve is proportionally of large size. Tiie inferior maxdlai-y nerve separates fiom the superior, and proceeds obliquely down- wards, dispensing branches to the pterygoid and quadrangular muscles of the jaws; the trunk proceeds outwards to the lower jaw where it divides into two branches an internal and an external. The internal, which is a con- tniuation of the trunk, penetrates the maxillary canal, and is continued to the anterior end of that mandible. In the Anatida it gives off