CIRCULATION. 643 Reptiles.—The structure and functions of the circulatory organs in Reptiles form a sub- ject of great interest on account of the nume- rous varieties which they exhibit in different orders and genera, for in this respect the class of Reptiles may be said to present to us an anatomical analysis of the circulatory and re- spiratory organs, and to constitute a gradually simplifying series of forms, the observation of whicli enables us to trace in the most clear and interesting manner an analogy and correspon- dence between the forms of these organs in warm-blooded animals and in fishes, which, but for the study of their structure in reptiles, must very probably ever have remained hidden from our view. In Fishes the heart consists of one auricle and one ventricle, and a single current of blood only passes through it. The structure of the heart is very similar in some of the Batrachia breathing by gills, but among other reptiles, we find a gradual transition ia the form and structure of the heart from that just mentioned as peculiar to animals with aquatic respiration, to the double heart possessed by warm-blooded and air-breathing animals. Among the Reptiles provided with lungs and breathing air, some, as the Sauria, Ophidia, and Chelonia, have the ventricular part of the heart partially divided into two cavities (Jig. 314, Fig. 314. Heart of Lacerta ocellata. H, H'J which correspond in structure, relative situation, and connections to the right and left ventricles of the heart of warm-blooded ver- tebrata; the anterior or right compartment f H') giving off chiefly the pulmonary (P), the left or posterior ('Jf J, the systemic arteries A J. In the others, viz. the Batrachia and Protean reptiles, the ventricle forms a single cavity f/g.?. 317 and 318, H), and gives'origin to one large artery only ), so that the pulmo- nary and systemic arteries derive their blood from the same trunk. In all of these, how- ever, the auricle is double,* so that the venous * The auricle of the Batrachia was generally de- scribed as single until the discovery of the left or pulmonary auricle in the Frog and Toad by Dr. .Tohn Davy. Mr. Owen has shewn this to be the case also in the Newt and_ Protean Reptiles; blood from the system and the arterial blood from the lungs are received into separate auri- cular compartments of the heart, and are sub- sequently mingled together in the common ventricular cavity. In the Heart of the Croco- dile of the Nile, Cuvier* has described three compartments, one of which corresponds to the left, the other two to the right ventricle, the septum between the right and left sides being incomplete. The heart of the Crocodilus Lu- cius is described by Hentz, Meckel,t and others as consisting of two ventricles, between which the septum is quite complete, so as to permit of no direct passage of fluid from one side to the other, possessing therefore in this respect, the same structure as the heart of warm- blooded animals. In those of the above-men- tioned reptiles in which the septum is so nearly complete as to divide the ventricle into two separate compartments communicating by a small orifice, the arterial and venous blood are believed to be kept separate from one another by a valvular apparatus. Among the rest of the Saurian, Ophidian, and Chelonian Reptiles, in Fig. 315. Heart of Common Tortoise. all of which the septum of the ventricular part is less complete than in the Crocodile, there is considerable variety in the extent to which the division of the cavity is effected by the septum. In a few of them the septum projects so little into the ventricular cavity that it cannot be supposed to divide to any extent, or to prevent the complete mixture of the two kinds of blood propelled from the opposite auricles. In the Crocodile, and in those Reptiles in which the ventricular septum is nearly com- plete, the circulation, so far as regards the heart at least, may be considered as almost double, or the same as in warm-blooded ani- Zool. Trans, 1834, p. 213. See also Martin St. Ange's Plate of the Circulation, and M. Weber, Beiir. zur Anit. und Physiol. Bonn, 1832. ' Lemons, vol. iv. p. 221. t Vergleich. Anatoinie^ vol. v. p. 231.