384 BLADDER, NORMAL ANATOMY. mal tissue, except perhaps mucous membranes: elasticity exists at the pylorus and at tlie anus, although true muscular and sphincter fibres are evident at both these outlets. When this region is carefully examined in the male subject, we shall find that immediately behind the pubis, on the anterior and lateral reflections of the pelvic fascia, to these ligaments numerous muscular fibres of the bladder are attached ; these are chiefly longitudinal, but there are also several transverse arched or semilunar, some upon, and others underneath the longitudinal fibres, and with which many of them are continuous. None of these arched fibres pass around or behind the prostate so as to encircle this region. The longi- tudinal, the ttausverse and decussating or inter- lacing fibres in this situation, are in greater abundance, and may be raised in successive laminee. Veins and nerves are very manifest in and between these; several of the longitudinal fibres of the deeper lamina' pass in so deeply as to approach the mucous surface. When the several strata of longitudinal fibres have been raised from the front and lateral parts of this region, the circular fibres of the bladder become distinct, but do not apjiear so proportional)ly increased as were the longitudinal; but on de- taching more completely the longitudinal strata down to the circumference of the very opening of the uretlira, a distinctly fibrous, that is, mus- cular tissue, is evident, bounding this opening laterally and superiorly, but not below. This muscular fasciculus is not intimately connected to the general circular coat; it appears redder, and of a closer texture, and will be found to be attached to the fibrous or tendinous substance forming the anterior part of the trigone on each side of the uvula, behind which it does not pass. The longitudinal fibres are inserted partly into this semicircular muscle, much in the same manner as the levatores ani are inserted into tlie circumference of the anus. This structure we consider to be partly elastic, but essentially muscular; it bounds the urethral opening late- rally and above, but not below; the slight pro- jection of the uvula in the latter situation, and the elasticity and gentle state of contraction natural to all the sphincter muscles, will pre- serve this opening in a constantly closed state during the quiescent and normal condition of the parts. This arrangement is on a level with the uvula, and, of course, behind the orifices of the prostate ducts, although the base of that gland extends further back than this sphincter. We have repeatedly examined beneath the uvula for muscular fibres, but have found none in a transverse direction ; there is, therefore, no portion of a sphincter in that spot, and hence one advantage of the slight elevation caused by the uvula and by that portion of the prostate gland denominated its middle lobe, which cor- responds to it: indeed sphincter fibres in this spot would be not only useless, but injurious, as they could scarcely exist without interfering witli the ejaculatory ducts. We conceive, then, Ihat ^hft urine is retained in the bladder partly by the relaxed or passive state in which its muscular coats usually remain until they are excited by the sense of distension, partly also by the urine, when only in a moderate quantity, gravitating, not towards the neck, but distendiiig the inferior fundus, which lies on a level lower than that of the former, and principally by the dense muscular, elastic, vascular, and nervous tissue which surrounds three-fourtiis of the orifice of the bladder. The gentle contraction of the latter raises the uvula into the calibre of the opening, while the remaining sides are pressed into contact with it, and thus the bladder is closed. When distension excites the usual feel- ing, the muscular coat contracts, the sphincter relaxes, phenomena exactly corresponding to those which take place under similar circum- stances in the rectum and anus; and as the levatores ani expand the anal opening by draw- ing the sphincter fibres outwards at the time the expulsive powers of the rectum are dis- chai'ging its contents, so the longitudinal fibres of the bladder draw out from the axis of the urethral opening the relaxed sphincter which encompasses three-fourths of it, while the middle band of the posterior longitudinal will plainly depress the uvula and expand the orifice in that aspect, and will even retract and depress the verumontanum, thereby freeing the passage into the urethra, and retracting that sentient caruncle from the irritating influence of the urinary stream. The next coat of the bladder, the fourth of some anatomists, or the second common of others, is the deep cellular, or more properly the submucous cellular coat, by some also de- nominated the nervous tunic. This coat invests the whole organ and connects the musculai- and mucous tissues intimately yet loosely ; it con- tains no adipose matter, but is very filamentous, extensible, and elastic: in it are found those vessels and nerves which are to supply the in- ternal surface of the bladder, and which, except in some situations, are not very numerous when compared with those in the other hollow vis- cera. This coat, though essentially cellular, pre- sents very many fibrous threads through it, on which much of its strength appears to depend, particularly in those places where the muscular coat is deficient. When the bladder is fully distended, if we dissect oft' the muscular fibres carefully without injuring this tissue, the mu- cous membrane still remains supported ; but as soon as a portion of this coat is detached, the mucous membrane projects in an unsup- ported sacculated manner. This coat corre- sponds with that elastic tissue in the parietes of the small intestines in some animals, out of which the substance, commonly termed catgut, is formed. The third proper coat is the mucous or lining membrane, to expose which the bladder must be opened by a perpendicular incision along its anterior region. This tunic is but a portion of the genito-urinary mucous membrane, and is continuous with that lining the ureters above, and the urethra below. The vesical portion of this membrane is very thin, has a soft and smooth feel caused by the mucous fluid which lubricates it; its colour is very pale in the natural condition, although in catarrh or in chronic inflammation it presents a general vascular appearance; but