60 ADIPOSE TISSUE. Schenke, Tulpius, Morgagni, and others, Ilewson and several cotemporary observers remarked instances of opacity and milkiness of tlie serum of the blood, and from ocular inspection as well as experiment and obser- vation, inferred that tliese appearances arose from tlie presence of oil in the blood or its serum. Soon after Dr. Gregory, in his Con- spectus, or View of the Institutions of Medicine, was led to infer apparently from the fact stated by Hewson, that in persons in whom the serum was opaque or milky, this depends on the presence of fat which is undergoing ab- sorption, or resumption into the system. This representation, however, was entirely conjec- tural ; and no direct proof of the fact that oil does exist in certain states in the venous blood was given till Dr. Traill, in 1821 and 1823, furnished accurate chemical evidence on the point. The inferences of Dr. Traill have been since confirmed by the experiments of Dr. Ciiristison, who found that milky serum con- tains oleaginous or adipose matter, consisting of the two adipose principles elaine and stearine.* The general conclusions, therefore, that may be deduced from the facts now stated are that in the healthy state adipose matter in small proportion exists in the fibrine of the blood, and in a still smaller portion in the serum ; and that in certain morbid conditions of the system, in which there is any process of mis- nutrition or paratrupliia, oily matter in con- siderable quantity may be found in the blood, either in consequence of absorption or non- deposition. To account, however, for the secretion of adipose matter, it is not absolutely requisite to prove that oleaginous or adipose matter exists in the circulating fluid. Even were it ascer- tained that oil or adipose matter does not exist, or cannot be detected in any of the elements of healthy blood, the fact would not form a stronger argument against its formation from that fluid, than in the case of several other principles which enter into the composition of the animal tissues, and which nevertheless do not exist in the blood. Thus neither gela- tine, which exists abundantly in skin, tendon, cartilage, ligament, and bone,—ncr osmazome, which is found in muscle, are contained in healthy blood. But we know that the chemical element of these substances exist in the blood, and we farther know that gelatine consists very nearly of the same chemical elements as albu- men ; and we must infer, therefore, that it is the faculty of the living tissues or vessels to arrange these elements in that manner and proportion in which they may constitute re- spectively gelatine and osmazome. The same reasoning may be applied to explain the for- mation of fat in the adipose tissue. Its ele- ments already exist in the blood, and the living agency of the tissue seems all that is requisite to effect its deposition. Its composition and history would also show that it is a secreted product which consists of superfluous chemical * Ellin. Mc<l. and Surg. Journal, vol. xxxiii. p. 274. . elements not required in the formation of the albuminous and gelatinous tissues. On this subject the interesting experiments of Berard* and Dobereinerf may, perhaps, fur- nish some intelligible means of illustration. The former chemist found that by mixing one measure of carbonic acid, ten measures of carburetted hydrogen, and twenty of hydrogen, and transmitting the mixture through a red-hot tube, he procured artificially several white crystals which were insoluble in water, soluble in alcohol, and fusible by heat into an oily fluid. The latter chemist prepared a similar substance from a mixture of coal-gas and aque- ous vapour. It may therefore be inferred that while ani- mal fat is chiefly a combination of bicarbonated hydrogen with oxygen, or, in other words, a highly carburetted hydrate of oxygen, and con- tains either little or no azote, it is the animal substance which makes the nearest approach in chemical constitution to the vegetable prin- ciples. So close, indeed, is this approxima- tion that Raspail thinks it may be in this re- pect compared with starch; and as the different forms of fecula are prepared by the vegetable tissues for the nutritious stores of the vegetable during the process of development, he ob- serves that, in like manner, fat is deposited whenever the nutritious function is in excess in the animal org-ans. It was a singular fancy of Fourcroy that the deposition of fat in animal bodies was in- tended as a sort of vent for the superfluous and unnecessary proportion of hydrogen, since the idea is at variance with chemical facts; and it is not less singular that such a hypothesis should receive any countenance from Blumen- bach. Carbon is the principle which predo- minates most largely in fat; and if any atten- tion is to be given to such views, the adipose tissue ought to be regarded as the outlet for superfluous carbonaceous matter, or at least carbonaceous matter in a much larger pro- portion than hydrogen and oxygen. The pro- per physiological view, however, of this ques- tion appears to be,—that as the tissues of the animal body consist chiefly of carbon, hy- drogen, oxygen, and azote united in variable proportions, and as most of these tissues either contain or seem to require azote, the adipose appears to be destined to receive whatever carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, are not re- quired to be united with the azote, in the forma- tion of the albuminous, the gelatinous, or the albumino-gelatinous tissues. On the mechanism of the deposition of fat we possess no exact information. But various facts may tend to throw some light on the cir- cumstances under which it takes place, and the history of the state of the adipose tissue at different periods of life is instructive. In the foetus the adipose tissue contains a sort of whitish, solid, granular matter, which resembles adipocere rather than genuine fat. * Ann. cle Cbimic, 1817, t. v. p. 290. t Ziii- Pncumatibthcn Plijtochcmic, 8vo. Jena. 1822.