CRANIUM. 742 Fig. 377. In infancy die rela- tive proportion of tlie cranium to the face is much greater than in adult life; and this causes the foramen magnum to appear to be situated much further forward, in the infe- rior region of the base, than it is when the face is more expanded. The lower part of the occiput is flattened, the superior is very projecting, and, altogether, the cranium has a character of rotundity which is speedily exchanged for the oval form which prevails in the adolescent age. When the sutures have become conjoined, and the cranium is constituted a defensive in- vestment of the brain in virtue of its mechan- isin, the internal table (the tabula vitrea) is secreted in greater abundance, and the diploe between it and the outer table is rendered more manifest. The spongy tissue of the sphenoid bone is absorbed and the sinuses formed ; but it is not until a period nearly coeval with puberty, that those of the frontal bone are developed. It is not until the diplije is fully formed that we can demonstrate those venous canals with which that structure has been shown to abound by the researches of Chaussier, Dupuytren, and Breschet (fgs. 187, 188, p. 436). Mechanical adaptation of the cranium.—It will now be noticed that the properties of the cranium, those on which its defensive qualities are founded, differ in the several periods of life; but that, nevertheless, there is in each as perfect an adaptation of it to these purposes as seems consistent with the schemes of Provi- dence in the creation of a finite being. The pressure which the brain has to sustain during the process of parturition, is directed solely to that part which is not essential to life; the condition of the bones of the calvaria ad- mits of the volume of the hemisi)he.''es being diminished at the time the foetus is ushered into the world. Not so the base ; the parts which it is destined to protect require to be maintained in all their integrity, and the ex- tent to which it has acquired solidity is such as to forbid the encroachment of the parietes on parts which are essential to the continuance of life, and which are highly intolerant of pres- sure. In infantile life, also, protection is aflbrded on the same principle. The bones of the calvaria are notoriously capable of sustaining indentations, and afterwards, by their resili- ency, of regaining their normal form. The preponderance, too, of the organic over the inorganic texture, blunts the force which may be applied, and resists its transmission to the parts below. But there is an addition even to these provisions, a mechanical disposition of the bones highly favourable to resistance. At the back, on the sides, and in front—opposed in every direction from which force may pro- ceed—are the summits of ovoidal domes, and, as the ossific matter radiates from these summits to the circumference, the force will be received on one extremity of a bundle of diverging lines, and that which would sever the structure if it fell on any other point, here falls compa- ratively innoxious. Hence it is that the cen- ters of ossification are so much more projecting during infancy than in after life ; for, although the mechanical contrivance abides through the whole term of existence, it is not, when asso- ciated with other means, of that predominating character which we observe in youth. The manner in which the cranium (when fully formed) defends the brain, differs widely from the preceding. In proportion as its several parts become consolidated, and the relation between its animal and earthy consti- tuents is reversed, so its power of deadening or neutralizing the vibrations which pass through it, is diminished. It is here on its general shape and the disposition of its parts that its protective properties depend. It has been already stated that the bones of the cranium are so fashioned as to concur in the production of an egg-like cavity; and that their margins are so arranged as to enable them to bind and be bound by each otiier, in such a manner that if one bone be taken away the whole will have a tendency to separate. This ovoid form ensures (much better than any other which has no fixed basis or point of resistance beyond itself) the transmission of the vibrations which are distributed from any spot on which force may be applied. Assuming that the skull involved the pro- perties of an arch, its defensive power has by some been attributed to the circumstance of its being of that figure. An arched form, how- ever, would serve it only in the ease of force descending from above; it would not provide resistance to those severe shocks which are communicated from below, as in jumping, nor protect it from blows that might arrive on its sides. But the cranium is not an arch, for there are neither piers on which the extremities of that arch could rest, nor abutments to resist their lateral thrust. Supposing a barrel to be sawed lengthwise, and the edges to be connected by a base, if the centre be applied on a column, (the proportion of which to the base is the same as that of the spine to the width of the skull,) it is manifest that, since the extremities of the arch are received on the ends of two long levers which have a common fulcrum, an inconsiderable force would have a tendency to sever them at their junction. On the other hand, if the barrel were entire, force would be transmitted through the parietes to a point exactly opposite to that on which it impinged, if it were not dissipated in its transit. Such a degree of force however might be applied, that its vibrations, distributed at the moment of its application, might pass through the entire walls, and, accumulating at one spot, by their intensity cause the fracture of the part. The natural mode of providing against this occur-