ANIMAL. 140 With regard to structure, as may be imagined, the amorphous tribes, at the bottom of the scale, are the most simple of all. The bodies of some of these are without any internal cavity, and without any division of parts; they are homogeneous masses, generally gela- tinous in appearance, and simply cellular in structure, without arrangement into tissues or particular organs. The external surface of these animals imbibes the matters which are fitted to subserve tiie purposes of nutrition, and we may presume that it throws off by transpiration such particles as are worn out or have accomplished this end. The external surface is also the organ of respiration in these animals. They procreate by the evolution of gemmi from their surface, and if they possess sensibility the element to which it is attached must be generally diffused tliroughout their sub- stance. The organization of tlie radiata becomes con- siderably more complicated. Fluids are no longer absorbed from the external surface of the body; we meet with an internal cavity, the rudiment of a dige.9tive apparatus, having a single opening in some of the species, which serves consequently for both mouth and anus, but in others presenting two openings, a mouth properly so called on one side of the body, and an anus on the other. Through the walls of this cavity the nutritive fluids make their way, and infiltrate the general mass of the animal's body. In this class we also discover the rudiments of a nervous and of a muscular sys- tem. The nervous system consists of rounded masses of a soft whitish substance, equal in number to that of the radii composing the animal, connected together by slender white cords, and sending off filaments of the same description to all parts of the body, but espe- cially to tlie outer integument, and to the inter- nal digestive apparatus. The muscular system consists of reddish and whitish fasciculated fibres disposed in the line of the motions. The external surface of these animals is still the only organ of respiration they possess. The three .systems now enumerated—the digestive, the nervous, and the muscular—are readily demonstrated in the majority of the symmetrical animals, and are even very soon found to have acquired complication, and to have sundry other parts and organs superadded to them. The digestive apparatus consists of a mouth for the susception of aliment, of a stomach for its elaboration, of an intestinal canal from which the nutrient juices are ab- sorbed, and of an anus from which the un- digested residue is expelled. Whilst in the radiata the nutritious fluids passed through the parietes of the digestive cavity to impregnate the body of the animal, and be assimilated with its substance ; in the binaria we find vessels, the rudiments of a circulating system, employed in receiving the juices prepared in the digestive apparatus and transmitting these to all parts of the body. Digestion, too, in this class becomes a more complicated process than in the radiata, and various secreted fluids, MiUva and particularly bile, the special products ot large and evidently important organs, are added to the alimentary mass in its progress through the intestinal canal. In addition to the digestive apparatus and general external respiratory surface we by-and- by find an especial system dedicated "to the aeration of the juices prepared for nutrition; this IS the respiratory apparatus. Of extreme simplicity in the first instance, being little or no more than a fold of integument turned inwards, and forming a simple cavity or sac within the body of the animal, it is soon rendered more complex in its structure, being distributed in the manner of vessels under the name of trachea or canals to different parts of the body, or being confined to a particular district, and entitled lungs or gills as it is fitted to receive the atmospheric air immediately, or lo make use of this elastic fluid suspended or dissolved in water. The existence of this separate respiratory apparatus presupposes that of another system, namely, the circulatory. The fluids prepared by the organs of digestion are not yet fitted to minister to the growth and nutrition of the organization; to be made apt for this purpose they require exposure to the air in the lungs or gills wherever these organs exist, and these be- ing distinct, or contained in a particular region of the body, a series of conduits were re- quired, first to carry the fluids thither, and to transmit them subsequently to every part of the organization for its support. Like all the other systems of animals, the circulatory exists of various degrees of complexness; when first encountered it consists of a series of simple canals or vessels, which diverge on every hand ; by-and-by it has several, and finally one, forc- ing piece, or heart superadded to it, which impels the fluids by its -contractions to every the most remote part of the organization. Among animals, however, nutrition is not a process simply of addition or composition; It is also, perhaps universally, one of subtrac- tion or of decomposition. We have seen the composition provided for by special systems in animals occupying very low grades in the scale of creation; we mount but a short way before we encounter an apparatus which pre- sides over the decomposition also in the shape of another system of vessels, the veins and especially the lymphatics; these collect the superfluous and worn-out particles from every part, pour them into the general current of the circulation, wherein being exposed in the vital elaboratory of the lungs they are either assi- milated anew and made fit once more to form an integral part of the organization, or, being subjected to the action of certain glands, they are singled out, abstracted, and finally ejected from the system entirely. In the most com- plicated animals therefore a peculiar appa- ratus for the depuration of the system is su- peradded as complementary to the absorbents. This we find in the glandular bodies familiarly known as the kidneys; the vehicle in which the decayed particles are withdrawn is the urine. When we examine the instruments of seiis<i- tion, we find them becoming gradually more