CRUSTACEA. 764 But it ie more especially in the types which still ask our attention, that we perceive tlie system of centralization pushed yet farther by the actual conjunction of the nuclei, which we have hitherto only seen approximated to one another, Fig. 393. Nervous system of the Astactts Marinus, or Sphinx Liguitri, in consequence of their gliding or encroaching, as it were, upon the median line. The Lobster f ^sf««<s wan'wws J fT'g. 393) pre- sents us with another step in the system of cen- tralisation. Here, in fact, the longitudinal cords of communication are entirely consolidated along the median line through the whole of the abdomen, although they are still to be found double in the thorax. Moreover, the first thoracic ganglion {t^\ and the last of the abdominal series of ganglions {(fi), are conspicuously formed by the reunion of several distinct ner- vous centres, in the way we have already indi- cated as happening, although in a minor degree and less perfectly, in the Amphipoda and the Isopoda. Before we pass, however, to the con- sideration of more complicated systems, we shall pause a moment to describe somewhat at length the one which we have but just mentioned, the more as it is among the number of those which have been most attentively studied. The cephalic ganglion {g^,fg. 393), situated above the base of the internal antennae, is of con- siderable size, and appears to be simple; it gives origin to five pairs of nerves and to two cords, which connect it with the rest of the ganglionic nervous system. The first of these pairs (o)arises from its anterior edge: this is the optic pair, which, after having penetrated the peduncles of the eyes, increase in size, and traverse a mem- branous diaphragm, which may be likened to the sclerotic coat. Tiie second pair of nerves correspond to the ocular motors ; they run parallel to the pre- ceding pair, and are distributed to the muscles of the eyeball. The third pair proceed to the internal anten- nae (6) ; but before they enter these appendages they send off a branch to the muscles which move them. A like ramification is sent off from the principal trunk to each of the rings of which these antennae are composed, and the nerve ends by becoming bifurcated, in order to penetrate the two filaments in which the an- tennae terminate. The fourth pair of nerves (e) are distributed to the tegumentary membranes of the anterior extremity of the animal. Behind the fourth a fifth pair is seen (rf), which proceeds anteriorly to the fourth pair almost immediately after its origin, sends one branch to the cake-like organ of doubtful function which covers the ear, a second branch to the organ of hearing itself, and finally terminates in a trunk of considerable size, which traverses the external or second antenna through its entire length. A sixth pair is destined to establish con- nexions between the cephalic ganglion and the first of the thoracic ganglions, after having sur- rounded the oesophagus ; but instead of ap- pearing as simple nervous cords through their whole length, as in types which we have hitherto studied, each of them presents an enlargement in its middle, which is neither more nor less than a ganglion, from which there is sent off, first, a nerve that proceeds to the mandibles f f J; next, a gastric nerve (g), of large size, which gives many filaments to the coats of the stomach, and finally anastomoses with