AGE. 82 once distinguished it from the dust, and that not less literally than truly it has become more and more " of the earth earthy." We have now traversed as far and as mi- nutely as our space would allow, the organs and tissues, with their various alterations. It remains for us to inquire whether any one of them may be considered to stand in the rela- tion of cause to the others. We have already dismissed the supposition, that rigidity and con- cretion are productive of the other alterations, and we also partly entertained the question, when treating of the relations between assimi- lation, the fluids, and the organs subservient to circulation and digestion. But there are one or two additional points which must be alluded to in this place. The decay of all the organs, concerned in the life of relations, has been shewn to depend on a failure in the actions which are necessary to their generation and maintenance; these organs may, therefore, be dismissed at once from our inquiry into the causation or priority of the processes of degeneration. Yet the observation of the marked declension of the function of the nervous system throughout the body, has led to the hypothesis, that the failure in this power is the ultimate fact in the history of our decline, the fact to which all the others maybe traced. This view is suggested by Dr. Roget in his justly-admired article on Age, in the Cyclopaedia of Practical Medicine. He considers the general condensation of tissue throughout the system, to be occasioned by a diminished force of circulation, which allows the capillaries to collapse and become obli- terated; the weakened circulation this distin- guished author is inclined to attribute to a diminution of nervous power in the muscular fibres of the heart; whence he infers that the declension of nervous power bears the priority in the chain of events. We do not fee! pre- pared to adopt the inference ; for if we admit this failure in the innervation of the heart, (and whether its fibres are dependent on nerves for their contractility, is still an unsettled ques- tion,) are we to pass over the condition of the blood ? Might we not say that the enfeebled contractions of the heart are referable to an alteration in the properties of its appropriate stimulus ? It is known that this vital fluid has been less affected by respiration than in former periods of our existence; we might therefore, when searching for the earliest antecedent in decay, stop at the imperfect arterialization of the blood. But this would be, in our humble opinion, to pause too soon. The deficient oxygenation of the circulatmg fluid is sufficiently well known to be the effect of certain changes in the apparatus of respiration. And to what do these changes belong ? To a variety of structural, functional, and nervous phenomena, which, if pursued, would lead us into a maze of events, from which it would be impossible to select that which was earliest in its occur- rence. Or if we leave the respiratory system, and follow the blood backward to the process of chylification, and ultimately to digestion, we shall, as was shewn above, be equally unsuc- cessful in obtaining satisfaction. Or finally, if we return to the heart, and investigate the dimi- nished nervous power, admitting this diminu- tion to be alone suflScient for the debility of circulation, is it possible to stop at this pheno- menon ? Nervous power is nothing but the function of nervous substance, and whether the latter belongs to the ganglionic system, or to the cerebro-spinal, it may have undergone some change, or have been stimulated differently from usual. We know that the sensibility of the nervous system is most intimately connected with thequality of the blood,and with the force of its impulse ; so that if it be true that diminished circulation is the effect of diminished innerva- tion, it is no less true that the latter is also the result of the former. Thus it appears that in this inquiry we are constantly arguing in a circle, and it can scarcely be otherwise; the principal structures and functions of the organic life commenced simultaneously ; they must.de- cline simultaneously: they assisted one another to grow ; they accelerate each other in the way to dissolution. If, however, we are disposed in some measure to qualify this remark, and still hold that there must be some organic changes primary in the work of decay, all ana- logies must, we think, conduct us to the simple processes of assimilation and secretion, into which all the more complicated functions must be ultimately resolved ; but we can go no farther, for we know not what determines or modifies the play of those subtle affinities, motions, and contractions, in which such changes consist. Some fancy that the enigma is solved by the hypothesis of a diminished vital power; but we have already attempted to show that the interpretation is without value, when applied to the cessation of development; the same reasons render it equally useless as a key to the hiero- glyphics of decay. Not less vain were the endeavours of those who could satisfy their philosophy with such a subterfuge of ignorance as was afforded in the theory of a sum of exci- tability, originally allotted to the system, and gradually exhausted, &c.; as if excitability could possibly mean any thing more than an expression of the collective phenomena of ex- citement, or vital movement. It is exactly on a par with the doctrine of decreasing vitality.* Some talk prettily and poetically of the vital flame burning out, of oil gradually wasting, of fuel expended,— phrases applicable enough as metaphors, but absurd when propounded, as they too often are, as statements of matters of fact. When philosophy has failed to discover an- tecedences, she may still find a prolific source of employment in the study of harmonies. There is no event to be found in the relation of cause to those organic changes which, without the intervention of accidental agents, ultimately affix a bound to the duration of man's existence. As no cause can be elicited for the termination of development, neither can we better explain * "La gene de rinflucnce vitale s'accroit sans ccssc."—Cabanis.