550 CEPHALOPODA. collar of the Nautilus, are notwithstanding indicated in a manner not to be mistaken, by the origins of the nerves which it sends off, and by the chords which bring it into communication with the cerebral mass above. We shall now briefly mention the points in which the brain in other Dibranchiata differs from what we have described, after careful examination of this part in the Cuttle-fish. In the Poulp, the brain or supra-oesophageal mass is divided, according to Cuvier, into two parts, an anterior (a, Jig. 233), which is of a flatter and squarer figure and of a whiter colour, compared by Cuvier to the cerebrum, but which seems to be the pharyngeal ganglion more closely approximated to the brain than in the Sepia: and a posterior globular mass (b), of a grey colour, which he compares to the cerebellum ; the optic nerves (c) are much smaller than in the Cuttle-fish, and do not support the small spherical bodies which exist in the Cuttlefish and Calamary. Fii^. 233. Brain and nerves of the Octopus vulgaris. The brain of the Argonauta does not present a rounded form above, but when seen from this aspect, is composed, as in the Octopus, of an anterior white oblong band, flattened trans- versely, and of a posterior raised convex semi- lunar mass, which terminates behind in a semi- lunar border, the extremities of which are con- tinued directly to form the posterior collar of the oesophagus. Tlie nerves of the arms proceed from the anterior and inferior subcesophageal ganglions (d,fig, 233), corresponding in number to the parts they supply, viz. eight in the Octnpodo> and ten in the Decapoda. But, according to Rathke, the Loligopsis offers an exception, the nerves of each lateral series of arms being con- tinued for a short distance from the brain as a single pair. In the Poulp, the eight nerves (e, e,fig. 233) glide along the inner surface of the basis of the feet, which they penetrate re- spectively, running with the great artery in their substance, and forming, as Cuvier has described, a series of closely approximated ganglions, corresponding to each pair of suck- ers, and sending off radiated filaments. In the Genus Eledu7ie, where the arms are narrower, and the suckers are arranged in a single series, the ganglia are relatively smaller. In the peduncles of the Decapoda the nerves are continued of a simple structure as far as the acetabuliferous extremities, where they become enlarged and gangliated. Before forming the ganglionic enlargements in the ordinary arms, each brachial nerve gives off two large chords, one to each side, which traverse the fleshy substance of the base of the feet to join the two corresponding branches of the contiguous arms ; the eight nerves are thus associated by a nervous circle (J',f, Jig. 233), which subdivides into two, and forms a small loop at each chord. Behind the origin of the brachial nerves, the large infundibular nerves, a single pair (g, Jig. 233), are given off. The small acoustic nerves (h) arise below and behind the nerves of the funnel, from the nervous sub- stance that effects, as it were, the junction of the two oesophageal collars below. Next arise the large visceral nerves (14,^^.232,233), which, after distributing filaments to the muscles of the neck, descend parallel and close to one another behind the vena cava, give off from their inner sides the small filaments which con- stitute the plexus upon the vein; they then diverge from each other towards the root of each gill, where they divide into three princi- pal branches: one of these dilates into an elongated ganglion (c,Jig. 232), and enters the fleshy stem of the branchia; the second de- scends to the bottom of the sac ; the third passes to the middle heart. The plexus pre- viously formed upon the vena cava receives additional filaments from the two latter bran- ches ; and a large sympathetic ganglion is formed, which is attached to the parietes of the stomach, near the pyloric orifice.* The most important and interesting nerves are the two largeones,(13,13,^gs.232, 233,)which arise from the posterior and lateral surface of the subcesophageal mass, and extend outwards, downwards, and backwards, perforating the shell muscles, and forming upon the inner parietes of the mantle the large stellated gan- glion (d, d,Jig. 232), from which the nerves of the mantle are derived. In the Octopoda the * See Brandt Medicin. Zoolog. a. a. O. S. p.309, tab. xxxii. fig. 23, who first described this ganglion in the Sepia, and Jacob's figures of the Anatomy of the Octopus Vulgaris, pi. xv. fig, 7 ; pi. xiii. figs. 2 & 3, in Ferussac's Monograph on Cephalopods, fol.