549 CEPHALOPODA. which they perforate, but there are no columns bility, the centre of nervous impression and prolonged backwards from the lateral parts of volition is proportionally developed, and exhi- the brain to form pallial ganglia as in the bits the highest conditions which the brain pre- higher Cephalopods; the structure and func- sents in the Invertebrate series of animals, tions of the cloak to which these ganglia are Except in some of the smaller species, as subservient, not being enjoyed by the shell- the Sepiola, in which the surrounding sub- clad Nautilus. The nerves corresponding to stance still retains the consistency of a mem- the large visceral nerves of the Dibranchiates brane, the brain, together with the anterior are, however, proportionally developed; for in and posterior oesophageal collars, is entirely the organs of plastic life the Nautilus is upon surrounded by a thick cartilage. The portion an equality with its naked congeners. These of oesophagus which is thus enclosed is sepa- nerves, which combine the functions of the rated from the surrounding medullary matter sympathetic and par vaguin, consist of a large by a thin layer of softer substance. The cere- pair derived from the lower part of the pos- bral cavity is larger than the brain itself, and terior oesophageal collar, and extending back- the intervening space is filled with a gelatinous wards on each side of the vena cava; and of fluid. In the Cuttle-fish the supra-oesophageal smaller twigs (17) coming off between the mass is transversely shortened, as compared origins of the preceding nerves, and forming a with the Nautilus, and supports a smooth, plexus upon the parietes of the vein. The rounded, heart-shaped medullary mass, slightly larger chords swell into ganglions at the termi- divided into two lateral lobes by a mesial Ion- nation of the vena cava, (16, 16,) and send off gitudinal furrow (1, fg. 232); from the lower ramifications to the branchia:;, (15,15,) the and lateral parts of this body proceed the broad contents of the pericardium, and the viscera of bands of cerebral substance which afterwards digestion and generation. dilate into the large reniform optic ganglions In the Dibranchiate Cephalopods which (2, 2); upon each of these bands is placed a possess instruments for varied and active loco- small spherical medullary body (k, k). These motion, where the visual organ is of large size, bodies, which we first discovered in the Sepia, and attains a complexity of structure equal to we have since ascertained to exist in Lotigo. that of the Vertebrate animals, where a distinct From the anterior apices of the cerebral acoustic organ is developed, and where the lobes small nerves are continued, which almost whole surface of the body is the seat of sensi- immedicitely dilate into a vound flattened g'an- glion (a, fg. 233); this is closely applied to the back part of the fleshy mass of the mouth above the pharynx; it sends off nerves to the oral appa- ratus (i, i, Jig. 233), and two fila- ments descend and form a pair of small closely approximated ganglions (8, 8, Jig. 232) below the mouth, analogous to the labial ganglions of the Nautilus. From the inferior, lateral, and an- terior parts of the brain two large chords (k, Jig. 233) descend, and unite and dilate below the oesopha- gus to form the anterior suboeso- phageal ganglion, or pes anseriniis of Cuvier, from which the nerves of the feet and tentacles arise. Two still larger bands (I, fg. 233) descend from the brain behind "the preceding to form, by a simUar enlargement and union, the posterior (Esophageal gan- glionic collar. From a comparison of these with the corresponding gan- glions of the Nautilus, it will be seen that by their approximation in the transverse direction the distinction of the ganglions at the lower part of the collar is lost; and a corre- sponding approximation in the antero- posterior direction, being accompa- nied by an additional accumulation of nervous substance, has produced a blending together of the four gan- glions into one large continuous sub- cesophageal mass. The portions of this mass corresponding to the four ganglions and double oesophageal Fig. 232. Nervous system of the Cuttlefish.