3S9 BLADDER, ABNORMAL ANATOMY. Petrop. vol. V. Noot, De stnictiira et nsu vesicae urinaria atqiie iireterum, 4to. Lugd. Bat. 1767. Boecklwven de WimI, De ureteribiis et ves. urin. 4to. Lugd. Bat. 1784. Richerand, Mem. surl'ap- parcil uiinaire, in Mem. de la Soc. Med. d'Kmulat. An viii. Bell on the muscles of the ureters, Med. Chir. Trans, v. iii. Wihoti, Lectures on the struc- ture and physiology of the male tirinary organs, &c. 8vo. Loud. 1821. See also the different systems of anatomy, the Tabul.x Septendeeim of Santorini and his Observaliones anatomicae, and the recent Memoir of 3Ir. Guthrie on the anatomy and diseases of the neck of the bladder, &c. 8vo. 1834. ( R. Harrison.) BLADDER, ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE URINARY.—Under this deno- mination it is proposed to include all variations from the natural condition of the organ, whe- ther the particular variety be a congenita! vice of conformation or a consequence of extra- uterine disease. ( Numerical ("Congenital In tlie following synopsis may be seen the several affections included, as well as the order in which they will be described in the present article. Absence. Plurality. Changes Acquired Of conformation 'Of conformation Of position Of structure Of function To some persons, the introduction of two functional diseases, paralysis and spasm, in an article on pathological anatomy, may appear objectionable ; but as they are sometimes con- sequences of structural change, we hold tliat we have a perfect justification for their ap- pearance. CONGKNITAL CONDITIONS. Numerical changes.—Absence.—Among the single organs of the body, one degree of nu- merical diminution only is possible, namely, their absence. Such an anomaly, if we except true cases of monstrosity, should be extremely rare, and indeed it is so; for as all unique portions of the organization are called u])on to perform functions, to which they are more or less exclusively devoted, it is rarely that any other can supply their place, and in conse- quence, when the organ is wanting, tlie func- tion is also wanting. There are upon record a certain number of instances of absence of the urinary bladder; in some of these cases the ureters have been found to terminate directly in the urethra, in others they have been inserted into the rectum, in others they have communicated with the vagina. Of the first species we have the fol- lowing examples: Lieutaud * mentions tiie case of a man, aged thirty-five, in whom the ureters, the capacity of which was mucli aug- * Hist. Anat. Med. Liber primus. Obs. 1361, i Septa. . < Extrophy or extroversion. C I'crsistance of the uiachus. r Sacculi or cysts. 1 Capacity, increase of. j decrease of. V Introversion. ^ Ilerniae, inguinal. 1 J'enioral. \ perineal. V vaginal. rinflammation widi its consequences., j Idiopathic softening. Rupture, j Fistula?. ' na;morihage. Fungoid turaours» Varices, _Scirrhus. ( Paralysis. ■ ■ ' ■ ^ Spasm. mented, terminated immediately below tlie pubis near the orifice of the urethra. Binnin- ger* describes the case of Abraham Clef, in whom there was no urinary bladder, and the ureters opened upon the urethra. A stylet, introduced into the urethra, passed alternately into the one and the other ureter ; the ureters were afterwards separated from the kidneys, and the stylet, introduced in the opposite di- rection, met with no obstacle to its passage into the urethra. Of the second species we have, in the se- venth volume of the Philosophical Trans- actions, the history, given by Richardson, of a lad residing in Yorkshire, who lived to the age of seventeen, without ever having passed urine through the urethra, and who had still enjoyed good health. The only inconvenience he suf- fered was a consequence of the passage of the urine into the rectum, by which a troublesome diarrhoea was kept up. Camperf speaks of five similar cases, one of which was that of a female. Klein J also speaks of a case. In tlie Nov. Acta Acad. Nat. cur. ann. i. obs. 38, there is another in which " ureter in rectum intestinum insertus fuit." And in the Hist, dc I'Acad. ann. 1752, n. 4, there is one de- * Obs. Bled. 24, cent. 2. t Tn Mem. pour le Prix, &c. Bvo. edit, tome v p. 9. I Raoliit. congcnit. Nov. Eiih. Ac, Nat. Cur vol. i. obs. 38.