679 CIRCULATION. a. One of the best examples of the first of these varieties, wliich are by no means uncommon in animals, occurs in the spermatic arteries of the bull. Two reasons have been assigned for the existence of this, viz. 1, to allow, by the greater length of the vessel, for the stretcliing of parts, as in the arteries of the lips ; and 2, to dimi- nish the velocity of the blood passing tiirough the tortuous vessel, from the longer course and greater incurvation.* Increased friction, which must be the consequence of greater length of the artery, will diminish the velocity of the blood through the whole vessel, and besides this, a given particle of blood passing through a tortuous vessel will arrive later at its destina- tion, in consequence of the longer course it has to run through; but if we regard the fluid in the arteries as every where subjected to pres- sure, it is vei-y doubtful that the increased cur- vature can be the source of any considerable retardation by diminishing the force communi- cated by the impulses of the heart.f h. The sudden division of an artery into many small branches may take place with or without tortuosity or a plexiform arrangement; the primitive vessel disappearing or persisting, but in most cases when present, diminished in size. The most remarkable examples of this peculiarity of the arterial system are the follow- ing. 1. The intercostal and lumbar arteries of the Cetacea in the posterior part of the chest, and in the vertebral canal and the caudal artery of the same animals, which are tortuous and plexiform. 2. The brachial artery of the Por- poise, which divides at once into more than forty plexiform branches. The primitive trunks disappear, and five or more vessels emerge from the distal end of the plexus. Tiie uterine and vesical arteries of the same animal are much divided, but not plexiform.J 3. The subdi- vided brachial and crural arteries of the Bra- dypus tiidactylus. Lemur tardigradus, L. gracilis and L. tarsius; and the same arteries, as well as the caudal arteries of the Myrme- cophaga didactyla and M. tetradactyla. 4. The arteries of the legs of the Swan, Goose, and Turkey divide into several long branches, which anastomose with one another.§ 5. The rete mirabile of Galen on the internal carotid of many quadrupeds, and the rete mirabile on the common carotid of the Frog. 6. The rete mirabile of Hovius on the ophthalmic artery of some animals, the Seal for instance. 7. The mesenteric arteries of the Sow at their com- mencement. 8. The subcutaneous arteries of the Hedgehog. The uses of these very various forms of arte- ries it must be confessed is very little known. Some of them may, like other peculiarities in animal structure, and more especially those be- longing to the vascular system, be remains of the foetal condition of the arteries in which * J. Hunter. t MiiUer's Physiol, vol. i. p. 198. X See the accounts of these varieties hy J. Hun- ter in the Phil. Trans. Sharpey, Meeting of IJi itisli Sclent. Assoc. in Edin. Sept. Ih34. Breschet, Annal. des Scien. Natur. 1834. Baer, Nov. Act. Nat. our. 1835. ^ C'uvier, Lemons d'Anat. Comp. vol. iv. they exist.* The most Gommon opinion enter- tained as to their effect on the circulation is that they retard the velocity of the blood, and render its flow more uniform, thus preventing the parts supplied by them from being affected by sudden changes.f Other secondary conse- quences of the diminished velocity occasioned by these peculiar structures have been imagined, as for example, 1, diminished rapidity and greater durability of muscular contraction, as in the Sloths;! 2, security against obstruction of tiie circulation from pressure, as in climbing animals which cling long and forcibly to branches of trees ;§ 3, or these plexuses have been regard- ed as intended to increase the capacity of the arterial system, and to serve as reservoirs for blood, as may be the case in the Cetacea.|| In some of the above-mentioned animals the tor- tuosity or multiplied divisions of the arteries are accompanied by a similar condition of the veins, as in the Porpoise. The most remarkable variety in the form of the venous system, and the one to which a use may be most easily assigned, is the large dila- tation of the vena cava inferior in the neigh- bourhood of the liver, which occurs in those animals which from their mode of life are in the habit of remaining long under water, such as the Seal, Otter, and Diving Birds. The pur- pose of the venous sinuses in these situations is manifestly to allow of the accumulation of venous blood in the vena cava without an un- usual distension of the right side of the heart and bloodvessels leading into it and from it, which is the effect of long submersion or im- peded respiration in animals unprovided with this peculiarity of structure. The venous and arterial plexuses of the Cetacea very probably serve the same purpose. The muscularity of these sinuses alleged by some must have the effect of emptying them more easily than would be accomplished by the via a tergo. 4. Iiijiuence of the vervous si/stem upon the circulation.—It is a very general opi- nion among physiologists that a considerable influence is exerted by various parts of the nervous system upon the function of circu- lation as a whole, and through it upon the different processes of the economy concerned with nutrition, as digestion, secretion, growth, animal heat, &c. There is some difficulty, however, in ascertaining the exact relation which subsists between particular parts of the nei-vous and circulatory systems. It is mani- fest that in many instances the circulation in the bloodvessels is modified by a nervous in- fluence which operates on the heart alone, while in others it is affected by an alteration of the vital powers of the bloodvessels themselves. We refer the reader to the articles Contuac- TiLiTY and Heart for an account of the modifications to which the circulation is liable from the operation of nervous influence on * Baer, loc. cit. t Barclay on the Arteries, p. 36. t Carlisle. Phil. Trans. 1800. Roget, Bridge- water Treatise. ^ Vrolik. X (I ,T. Hunter, loc. cit.