AVES. 205 along the edge of die aponeurotic expansion of the wing. In this situation it acquires exactly the structure and elasticity of the liga- mentum subflavum or ligamentum nucha?; it then resumes its ordinary tendinous structure, passes over the end of the radius, and is in- serted into the style of the metacarpal bone. It combines with the preceding muscle in bending the fore-arm; and further, in conse- quence of the elasticity of its tendon, puckers up the soft part of the fold of the wing. (See 48, 133.) An analogous structure is met with in the wing of the bat. A lesser flexor of the fore-arm, and stretcher of the alar membrane (31) arises, as a portion of the serratus magnus from the ribs, and ter- minates in an aponeurosis inserted into the alar membrane and fascia of the fore-arm; it is re- presented in the figure as turned aside. The Ej.tenso7- metacarpi radialis longus (32) is the first muscle which detaches itself from the external condyle of the humerus (t), and it forms the radial border of the muscular mass of the fore-arm; it terminates in a large tendon about the middle of the fore-arm, and this tendon passes along a groove of the radius, over the carpus, to the phalanx of the so called thumb, or spurious wing, into the radial margin of which it is inserted. It raises the hand, draws it forwards towards the radial margin of the fore-arm, and retains it in the same plane. In the Penguin this muscle is extremely feeble, and the tendon is lost in that of the tensor plica alaris. The Extensor metacarpi radialis hi-evis (33) arises below the preceding from the ulnar edge of the radius, and is inserted into the phalanx of the thumb immediately beyond the tendon of the preceding muscle. The two tendons are quite distinct from one another in the Birds of Prey, the Ostrich and Parrots, but unite at the lower end of the fore-arm in the Anatida, Phasianidac, and Gruida. The muscle analogous to the Extensor carpi ulnaris (34) comes off from the inferior extre- mity of the outer condyle of the humerus, passes along the middle of the exterior surface of the fore-arm, and its tendon, after passing through a pulley at the distal end of the ulna, is inserted into the ulnar phalanx. It draws the hand towards the ulnar edge of the fore- arm, and is the principal abductor or folder of the pinion. The Flexor metacarpi radialis (35) is a short and weak muscle, which arises from the inferior part of the ulna, descends along the internal side of that bone, winds round its lower extre- mity and the radial edge of the carpus, passes beneath the tendon of the radial extensors, and is inserted, external to the latter, high up into the dorsal aspect of the radial phalanx of the metacarpus. In the Ostrich it arises from the lower third of the ulna. In the Penguin it is wanting. The Flexor metacarpi ulnaris (36) arises beneath the fore-arm from the internal pulley of the ulna, continues fleshy to the pinion, and is inserted, fir.st into the ulnar carpal bone, then into the ulnar phalanx. The latter insertion is wanting both in the Ostrich and Penguin. Tlie muscles of the pinion or hand are few, and very distinct from one another; the thumb or spurious wing is moved by four small mus- cles, viz. two extensors, an abductor, which draws the thumb forwards, and an adductor. The second digit receives three short muscles, two of which are extensors, and the third an abductor, in this action it is aided by one and opposed by another of the extensors. The lesser digit receives an abductor, which comes from the ulnar edge of the preceding phalanx. Muscles of the lower extremiti/.—Notwith- standing the simplicity of the motions of the lower or posterior extremity, the muscles of this part are numerous, and present several peculiarities in birds. The femur can be moved freely forward and backward, but its rotation is limited by a strong ligamentum teres, and the structure of the hip-joint does not permit it to be carried under the body, or far outwards. In consequence of the form of the pelvis, the psoas mugnm and parvus, the obturator externus and the quudratus lumborum do not exist in birds. A large muscle, regarded by Cuvier as the Obturator internus, takes its origin from the internal surface of the ischio-pubic bone, it is directed from behind forwards, and gives oflT a strong and long tendon which passes through the small opening at the anterior part of the obturator foramen, which is situated between the pubis SlwA ischium, (f,fig.\Z\.) In this situation a muscle, arising from the external border of the opening, attaches itself to the preceding, and is inserted conjointly with it into the posterior and outer aspect of the trochanter. Meckel compares this muscle with the pectineus, especially as it exists in the Sau- rian Reptiles, but observes that as it arises from both the internal and external surfaces of the circumference of the obturator foramen, it may represent both the internal and external obturator muscles. It is of an extraordinaiy size in the Ostrich. The femur is raised by three muscles. The most superficial and highest of these elevators (37) arises by a broad and thin aponeu- rosis from the anterior and external surface of the ilium, it is of a square form, descends al- most in a straight line, and is inserted into the posterior part of the trochanter. Meckel re- gards it as analogous to the Glutaiis medius: Carus calls it the Glutccus maximus. But the latter, according to Meckel, is represented by the posterior part of what Carus terms the Rectusfemoris latissimus (40). Anterior to the Gluteus medius of Meckel, there is a much smaller muscle, which extends from the anterior margin of the ilium to the trochanter, where it is inserted in front of the preceding. It is of an elongated quadrilateral form, and it represents the Gluteus minor of quadrupeds. It is wanting in many of the Natatores, and arrives at its greatest degree of development in the Raptorial Order. A third muscle, still smaller and longer than