BONE, PATHOLOGICAL CONDITIONS OF. 448 effect, the only objection being that the result is not uniform and universal. Fractures have been submitted to each of the above con- ditions, more especially to the maintenance of exact co-aptation for months, yet has no ossific union been produced ; and again a firm consolidation has taken place between two bones, the extremities of which had been sawed off and the parts placed under circum- stances that could not permit of the approxima- tion of the divided surfaces. We have a case published as having occurred in the hospital of La Charite in Paris, in which the os calcis was broken ; and although the surfaces of the fragments were never completely separated, yet the usual kind of ligamentous connexion took place; and for proof that a solid union may occur under the circumstances above- stated, we refer our readers to Mr. Crampton's second case of extirpation of the knee-joint.* If we can subscribe to Larrey's opinion that only the vessels of the bone itself can minister to osseous union, and that those of the peri- osteum and adjacent structures are incom- petent to such function, (an opinion in which he is to a certain extent supported by Mr. Liston,t) it is obvious that a union between fragments at a distance from each other would be difficult if not impossible. Here, however, as well as in every other part of the history of ossific union, it is only conjecture. We have nothing like substantial definite proof, and must only rest satisfied with a knowledge of the fact without being able to explain it, that the medium of union between fragments, the faces of which are withdrawn from each other, is in general not osseous. Whatever may be the operation of this cause, that of the other two is by no means so ob- vious. The second I has been generally ad- duced in explanation of the non-union of fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone, but perhaps without being entitled to the impor- tance that has been attached to it. If a part is only possessed of a degree of organisation barely sufficient to preserve its vitality in ordi- nary circumstances, but inadequate to accom- plish any process of repair, it should follow that any violence offered to it ought to cause its death, or at least its removal by the ab- sorbents, and in such case the caries or exfo- liation of a fragment of bone might be easily understood. But these are not the results of fracture of the neck of the femur except in very rare and anomalous cases ; and, on the contrary, there is scarcely an example of exami- nation after death that did not exhibit a conside- rable display of reparative energy, although the results were not such as to produce ossific union. Professor CollesS has published twelve cases of post-mortem examinations of this accident, in some of which he observed the appearance of ivory-like patches on the surface of the superior fragment, evidently proving the ex- • Dublin lfSSpi_tal Reports, vol. iv. p. 236. t Rlemehts of ^rgery. t Cooper's Stfrgic^J Essays. ^ Dublin Hospitalfleports, vol. ii. p. 334. istence of considerable ossific powers in this part. Besides, this condition of the head of the bone has been assumed rather than proved. On the most attentive examination, we have not been able to observe any deficiency of vascu- larity within it; and if there is any difference between the head and neck and shaft, we are rather disposed to believe the head to be pos- sessed of the highest degree of organization. The advantage of the most absolute rest to the cure of fracture has been observed in all ages, and yet is it doubtful how far its influence on the question under consideration can be appre- ciated. Few fractures can be kept in a more perfect state of repose than those of the patella or of the heel, yet the union in both these cases is always ligamentous. It would appear as if constant although very trifling motion was more prejudicial than occasional shocks however rude and productive of greater dis- turbance, and this perhaps is the reason why false joints so frequently occur after fractures of the clavicle, even although the fragments have never suffered displacement, as occurs when the bone is broken near its acromial extremity. Suppuration may occur in the osseous tissue under a variety of conditions, as to situation, as to the character of the matter, and as to whether it is produced by or connected with any constitutional or specific taint. Pus is occasionally, though not frequently contained in a cyst or sac within a bone, as the result of inflammation, and resembling the common ab- scess in the soft parts. These collections are never very large ; they are usually situated in the thick and spongy parts of the bones, and have a strong tendency to burst into the neigh- bouring joint. We have seen a case of abscess in the head of the tibia, which appeared to have opened into the knee-joint even after it had burst externally. The disease had pre- viously existed for months, the patient suf- fering very little either locally or constitutionally until the communication with the cavity of the articulation was established, when the symp- toms became so aggravated as to demand the speedy removal of the limb. The symptoms of suppuration within a bone are exceedingly obscure, nor is there any certainty until the abscess has burst and a probe can be passed into the cavity, particularly if the inflammation has not been attended with enlargement of the bone. The pain is said to be agonizing, but this is not universally true,-and we may infer that suppuration has taken place " by the violent symptoms of active inflammation les- sening, by cold fits and shivering occurring, by a remission of pain with an increased sense of weight in the part; but all these are fal- lacious, and no external marks of supjjuration are at first to be observed, the disease affecting parts too deep to be seen with the eye or felt with the finger."* Suppuration on the surface of a bone is of very common occurrence, and so constantly complicated with affections of the periosteum, * Wilson on the Bones and Joints.