614 CILIA. Cilia appear also to exist in other tribes of Medusae besides the Ciliograda, but they differ in form and situation from those described, and have not been investigated with equal accuracy. In Ilhizostoma there are certain membranous appendages attached to tlie arms or tentacula, and bearing on their free edge a fringe of short filaments which are constantly in motion, and continue so for some time after the arm or portion of membrane supporting them is de- tached from the body. Tiiese filaments are described and figured by Eysenhardt,* who regards them as organs of generation ; they are probably of the nature of cilia. Similar fila- mentary organs seem also to exist within the body in some Medusae. (See Acaleph*, p. 48.) 5. Actinia.—In a paper published on the present subject in 1830,| I mentioned that I had found the ciliary motion in the Actinia or Sea-aneraony, but gave no description of it. I liave since re-examined various species of Actiniae with this view, and shall now describe the appearances ; but to make the description intelligible, it may not be improper to remind the reader of some points in the anatomy of these animals which require to be kept in view. The body of the Actinia, of which Jig. 297 Fig. 297. Actinia, is a plan, consists entirely of a soft but tough substance, exceedingly contractile and irritable. It is usually cylindxical in shape, one end, (a, a,) named the base or foot, serving to fix the animal by adhering to rocks or other ob- jects ; the other extremity is named the disc, one-half of which is seen at b, b, the other half being removed by a section; it is sur- rounded at its circumference by the arms or tentacula (c, c,) in concentric rows, and in its centre is the mouth {d), or opening of the stomach, which serves both for the entrance of food and discharge of undigested remains. * Nova Acta Acad. Cses. Leop. vol. x. p. 404. t Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal, vol. xxxiv. The Stomach (e) is plaited longitudinally on its inside; vertical membranous partitions S' S'-> g\) pass from its outer surface to the inside of the parietes of the body, and to the base, dividing the intermediate space into numerous compartments or cells, which com- municate with each other by openings, as at g\ g', and also open into the tentacula, as at /i. The latter are conical muscular lubes, commu- nicating at their base with the cells, and open- ing at their point by a small orifice, surrounded by a sphincter muscle. The cells seem also to communicate with the cavity of the stomach, and, according to Rapp,* they open in some species by small orifices on the surface of the body. The cells and tentacula contain sea- water, with which the animal can distend the whole body or any particular part of it. The protrusion of the tentacula, as is well known, is effected by their distension with water. The stomach also is often partially everted and pro- truded from the mouth by an accumulation of water behind it. It has not, so far as I know, been clearly shewn by which of the communi- cating orifices the water enters. Though I took considerable pains, I have not been able satisfactorily to ascertain this point; I may remark, however, that I have repeatedly no- ticed water entering at the mouth. The ovaries and oviducts {k, k,) are lodged in the cells, and are consequently bathed in water; of these it is unnecessary here to say more than that one part of them consists of a waving membranous fold like a mesentery, at- tached by one edge to the sides of the cell, and at its free border supporting the oviduct, which resembles a white opaque chord, termi- nating, after numerous serpentine windings, in the stomach. In regard to the ciliary motion in the Actiniae, I am led from my observations to conclude that it exists to a greater extent in some species than in others. In all cases I have found it on the sur- face of the oviducts and their supporting mem - branes, which is covered with cilia of very minute size; also on the internal surface of the sto- mach, which has similar cilia, and there the currents follow thp direction of the folds of the membrane. In one small but full-grown species I found currents commencing near the centre of the disc, and proceeding outwards in a radiating manner to its circumference, whence they continued along the arms as far as the points. On examining this species, which was semitransparent, by transmitted light, I distinctly perceived moving particles in the water contained within the tentacula and be- hind the protruded stomach.f The motion of these particles obviously indicated a current in the water along the surfaces containing it, which current, like that on the oviducts, it may be inferred was produced by cilia, for it went on while there was no perceptible con- traction taking place in any part of the ani- mal. The particles indicating the currents * Ueber die Polypen und die .4ctinien. Weimar, 1829, p. 47. t Some of these particles were no doubt the ova.