CONTRACTILITY. 718 on the surface, closing the eyelids when the eyes are offended by bright light, swallowing, breathing, coughing, sneezing, vomiting, ex- pulsion of faeces and urine, &c. consequent on certain sensations of the fauces, lungs, air- passages, nostrils, stomach, rectum, or blad- der. Such muscular actions, excited by irri- tation of distant parts, have been generally but vaguely described as the effects of Sympathies of one part of the living body with another. It is well ascertained that they are effected through the motor nerves (or certain of the motor nei-ves) of the muscles concerned in them; and their dependence on the Sensations, and therefore on the sensitive nerves, of the parts from the irritation of which they originate, has been sufficiently illustrated by Haller, Whytt, Monro, and others.* It has also been observed, by Haller and Whytt, but more frequently and carefully by Legallois,t Flourens, and Mayo,J that in many animals, (most remarkaiDly in cold- blooded, or young warm-blooded animals,) even after the removal of the brain, as long as the circulation can be maintained, move- ments of the kind now in question go on, or may be excited by irritation of the sur- faces; and that if the spinal cord be divided into several parts by transverse sections, such movements may still be excited in the muscles supplied from each part, by irritation of the portion of the skin which has its nerves from that part of the cord. These facts have (as is believed) usually been thought to denote, that a certain degree of Sensation remains under these circumstances, in connection with the living state of the spinal cord, or of portions of the spinal cord, and medulla oblongata, indepen- dent of the brain ; and that it is still through the intervention of sensation, that irritation of the surface of the body excites any con- traction of muscles. Dr. Marshall Hall has lately described phenomena precisely of this description, under the title of Excito-motory phenomena, and as proofs of what he terms the Reflex Function of the Spinal Chord § —a power of exciting contraction in mus- cular fibres connected with it, which he supposes that organ to possess, equally inde- pendently of sensation as of volition ;|| and as it seems hardly possible to be quite certain of the existence of Sensation in the case of the mutilated animal, this language is perhaps philosophically correct; but the probability of the existence of Sensation in such circum- stances must be allowed to be very great; and at all events, that sensation is an essential part of * It is obvious tliat such motions, excited di- rectly by sensations, cannot be accurately distin- guished from those voluntary actions which are called Instinctive, as being prompted by the in- stincts, distinct from strictly intellectual acts, which are linked by nature with the sensations of certain parts of the body. t Experiences sur le Principe de la Vie. t Outlines of Physiology, second edit. p. 282, and Anat. and Physiol. Comms. 5 Phil. Trans. 1833, p. 635, II See particularly p. 640. the connection between the irritation of distant parts, and the excitement of involuntary mus- cular contractions of voluntary muscles, for useful purposes, in the entire and healthy body,—may be held to be a point well esta- blished by the observations of Haller, Whytt, Monro, and others, on such sympathetic actions. Accordingly, those actions, in the entire body, which Dr. M. Hall ascribes to the reflex func- tion,* are the same, or similar to those, which have been fully treated by Dr. Whytt and others as sympathetic actions, or actions of voluntary muscles excited by sensations. But Dr. Hall has fixed the attention of phy- siologists on this class of facts, and has illus- trated by experiments their independence of the Brain, and dependence on the Spinal Cord exclusively, and in this conclusion he is sup- ported by many facts previously recorded by Le Gallois, Magendie, Flourens, and others. It is further to be observed, that the contrac- tions of voluntary muscles, which are supplied by the nerves of the Symmetrical class of Sir C. Bell, while they are excited through the one set of filaments comprising those nerves, are made known to our consciousness by the others or sensitive filaments, and constitute the im- portant class of Muscular Sensations. Of the movements of the strictly involuntary muscles, the heart, stomach, and bowels, and even the bladder, (supplied by irregular nerves,) we have, in the perfectly healthy state, no intima- tion, although they frequently become percepti- ble to us in disease, or when over-excited. But contractions of some of these involuntary mus- cles also are pretty certainly excited by certain Sensations, as, e. g. a certain degree of antipe- ristaltic movement in the stomach by the feel- ing of nausea, and a certain movement of the pharynx and oesophagus by the sensations in the fauces, which prompt the act of deglutition ; and in such cases, although not attended with consciousness, they are in all probability excited through the nerves of these muscular parts. Accordingly, the pharynx and oesophagus have been observed by Mr. Mayo, and the stomach by Breschet, Milne Edwards, and others, to be exceptions to the general rule of involuntary muscles being inexcitable by irritation of their nerves. The old distinction of muscles into Volun- tary, Involuntary, and Mixed, is very deficient in precision, so far as the last class is concerned. The true distinction is, of muscular contrac- tions, into those excited in the natural state by Mental Stimuli, and through the intervention of Nerves (qui soli in corpore mentis sunt mi- nistri)—and those excited by Physical Stimuli, acting on the muscles themselves, whereas the intervention of nerves is a theory, not an esta- blished fact. The first class admits obviously, from what has been stated, of a division into movements excited by the Will, which depend on the Brain, and movements excited by invo- luntary mental acts, especially by Sensations, which depend only on the Spinal Cord and medulla oblongata. The Will acts only on * P. 653 et seq.