PREFACE. Numerous as were tlie articles which, according to the first plan of the work, were to have been introduced, it was soon found indispensable not only to add others quite new, but also to enlarge considerably the space allotted to each of those which formed the original catalogue, and to multiply greatly the number of illustrations. All this was rendered necessary by the rapid strides which our know- ledge of many subjects in Anatomy and Physiology began to take at the time when the earlier parts of the CyclopEedia made their appearance. Perhaps there never was greater activity of research in any branch of science during a given period, than that under which the sciences of Anatomy and Phy- siology advanced during the last quarter of a century. Minute anatomy, which thirty years ago was crude and undigested, now takes very high rank among the various branches of Natural Knowledge. During these years every tissue has been scrutinised ; many obscure points have been cleared up ; much that was wholly unknown has been brought to light. The additions to our knowledge of Anatomj', although there is yet ample room for fresh dis- coveries, have given a totally new phase to Physiology. From being little more than a series of vague and. ill-founded hypotheses, scarcely deserving even that name, it has become a well-arranged, science, embracing a vast amount of clearly defined facts, which, at once, form a solid basis for a superstructure of sound theory, and throw much light upon the various processes of animal and vegetable life. It was the constant aim of the Editor, where it was possible, to secure the assistance of Contributors who would be likely to make original investiga- tions, and to employ new researches for furnishing the materiel of their articles. Whilst it is thankfully acknowledged, that in many instances the Editor's most sanguine hopes were fully attained, it is not less true that he was sometimes disappointed, and that much delay of publication and apparent breach of faith took place. A few completely failed to fulfil their engagements, without any assignable reason; others were unavoidably prevented from so doing. In several instances the articles were not completed at the stipulated time. For some of these the Editor was content to wait, notwithstanding that by so doing the immediate sale of the book was injured, and the Editor himself exposed (with apparent justice) to charges of violation of promises. But, in the particular cases referred to, the Editor knew that delay in the comple-