ARTERY. 221 by experiments, that in every instance where an artery divides in the human body, it undergoes a dilatation immediately before such division; and this fact derives confirmation from the experiments of Mr. Hunter on the carotid arte- ries : it is much more unusual for an artery to diminish in size in its course unless it has furnished branches. Santorini* states, how- ever, tliat he observed the carotid artery of an ostrich (Struthio camelus) to have become nar- rovver in a portion of its course of six inches in length, for which space no branch had been given off. The arteries become smaller and more nu- merous by repeated divisions: the combined area of the branches of each artery, however, exceeds the area of the trunk from which they are given off, in every instance, in consequence of wliich the capacity of the arterial system, as a wtiole, is increased in proportion to the number of its divisions. It is from this cir- cumstance that the arteries have been said to represent a cone, the apex of which is at the heart, and the base in the capillaries. When an artery divides into several branches of unequal size, the largest usually continues its course in the direction of the original trunk. The branches of the arteries are for t!ie most part given ofT at acute angles; some few, as the superior aortic intercostals, go off at obtuse angles, and the lumbar arteries arise from the aorta at right angles. The arteries appear in general to take the shortest course to the parts they supply ; hence tlie tendency they have to run in straight lines. In many situations the arteries are remark- able for having a tortuous course, as is par- ticularly evident in the arteries of the stomacli, intestines, bladder, uterus, lips, iris, &c., where this disposition appears to be a provision to obviate any interruption to the circulation which might result from the great or sudden changes of volume, form, or situation to which those organs are subject in the performance of tlieir functions: in other instances the arteries appear to be contorted for the purpose of breaking the impulse of the systole of the ven- tricle on the blood, and thereby moderating the force with which that fluid is propelled into vessels partaking of the delicacy of structure of certain organs to which they are distributed, as the arteries of the brain, spleen, testicle, &c. The smaller arteries, running among loose structures, are rendered tortuous during each systole of the ventricle of the heart, a pheno- menon which we have frequently witnessed where such vessels were exposed for a few inches of their course during surgical operations. Anastomoses.—The several parts of the arte- rial system communicate freely with each other; and these communications, known by the name of anastomoses,t are more frequent between the arte-nes in proportion to the remoteness of these vessels from the heart. Three kinds of anas- tomosis have been distinguished by anatomists : first, two vessels of nearly equal size approach and join so as to form an arch in such a man- '* Observationes Anatom. c. 7. n. 6. t From ava, per, -no/xa, us. ner as to render it impossible to determine the exact point of their union : this arch gives off smaller vessels. Of this kind is the anasto- mosis which takes place between the arteries of the intestines and the arteries in the neigh- bourhood of joints. Secondly, two arteries are sometimes connected by a transverse branch, as the two anterior cerebral in the arterial circle at the base of the brain. We find this kind of communication, also, between the two um- bilical arteries as they approach the placenta. Thirdly, two arteries join at an acute angle, so as to form a single trunk : thus the two verte- bral arteries form the basilar, the two anterior arteries of the spinal cord unite in a single trunk ; and in the foetus the ductus arteriosus joins the thoracic aorta in a similar manner. Besides these more obvious communications between vessels of a larger size, the anastomoses of the capillaries are so frequent as to give to those vessels, when successfully injected, the appearance of a fine net-work. It is by means of the anastomoses that the circulation is carried on in a limb after the trunk of its chief artery has been obliterated by disease, injury, or a surgical operation ; and the well-known efficiency of the anastomosis of arteries in re-establishing the circulation in parts from which the direct supply of blood through the principal artery has been cut off, has led to the performance of some of the most brilliant operations by which modern surgery has been raised to the exalted rank it holds at the present day. Tlie larger trunks of arteries are inclosed within the cavities of tlie body, or run their course on the sides of the limbs least exposed to external injuries, being in general deeply situated in the intervals between the muscles, so as to be protected against wounds or other external injuries, to which tliey are therefore less exposed than if they had been more super- ficially situated. The arteries and their branches are every where surrounded by a layer of cellular tissue, called the arterial sheatli, connected more or less intimately with the neighbouring struc- tures, but having so loose an attachment to the arteries as to allow them to glide freely on its inner surface in all their motions, by which means they frequently escape being injured when penetrating wounds traverse parts con- tiguous to them ; and it is owing to the loose- ness of the attachment of the arteries to their sheath that they retract .-.o remarkably within it when cut across. The sheath is generally strongest around the arteries most exposed to external injury: thus it is particularly strong where it surrounds the arteries of the limbs; it is less distinct on the arteries within the thorax and abdomen, many of which receive coverings from the serous membranes; and it is so ex- tremely delicate around the arteries of the encephalon as to have its existence in this situation questioned by some anatomists. Structure (>f arteries.—The arteries are of a pale buff colour when empty. The absolute thickness of their parietes is greatest in the larger trunks, but more considerable in pro- portion to their calibre in. the smaller branches.