20 ABSORPTION. states of that cavity, both congenital and mor- bid, including also the abnormal states of its parietes, we prefer to bring together in a sepa- rate article under the head Cavity abdo- minal, to which we beg to refer the reader. The special anatomy, both natural and ab- normal, of the several abdominal viscera is distributed among the articles Intestinal Canal, Kidney, Liver, Pancreas, Spleen, Suprarenal Capsule. Bibliography.—The several systematic writers, as Winslow, Boyer, Portal, Bichat, Meckel, Cloquet, MarjvUn, Hildebrandt, &c. for the titles of whose respective works see the Bibliography of A NATOMY, (Introduction.)—Velpeau, Anat. Chirurgicale. Paris, 1833. t. ii. Blandin, Anat. Topographique. Cru- veilkier, Diclionnaire de Med. et Chirurg. art. Abdo- men, Beclurd ct Berard, Diet, de Mcdecine. Ed. 2d. art. Abdomen. Pierer Anatomisch- Physiologisches Ilealworterbuch. herausgcgeben vou J. h\ Pierer. Leipzig, 1816. art. Abdominal- inuskeln. Gerdy, Anat. des formes exterieares. Paris, 1829. p. 122 and 199. Cloquet, Recherches Anat. sur les Hernies de I'Abdomen, or the trans- lation by McVVhinnie. Lond. 1835. Scarpa, on Hernia, by Wishart. Lawrence on ditto. Todd, on ditto. Dub. Hosp. Reports, vol. i. J'/ood'splates of Inguinal and Femoral Hernia. Lond. 1834. Cam- per, Icones Hetniarum. Guthrie, on Inguinal and Femoral Hernia. A. Cooper, on ditto, and on the Testicle. Munec, Dissertation Inaugurale sur I'Her- nie.l826. CoHes's Surgical Anatomy. Dublin, 1811. Barclay on Muscular Motion, p. 337 et sqq. (R. B. Todd.) ABSORPTION in physiology (from ab- sorbeo: Lat. absorptio, Fr. absorption, Ger. die einsaugung, Ital. assorbi/iiento.) The term absorption is employed in physiology to de- signate a vital organic function, the primary or immediate object of which is to furnish the system with a due supply of matter for its growth and subsistence. It is proposed, in the following article, first, to give an account of the organs by which the function is performed; this will lead us, 2dly, to consider die question of venous absorption; in the third place, we shall incjuire into the mode in which the ab- sorbents act; and, lastly, we shall offer some remarks upon the specific uses of die different parts of the absorbent system, and upon the re- lation which it bears to the other vital functions. §. 1. Desc?-iption of the Absorbent Si/stem.— We propose, in the first instance, to restrict the term absorbent system to those organs, which are supposed to be exclusively appropriated to the function of absorption ; these may be in- cluded under the two heads of vessels and glands, the vessels being again subdivided into the lacteals and the lymphatics. Although the absorbents are distributed to al- most every part of the body, and perform so im- portant an office in the animal economy, they were among the organs which were the latest in being discovered by anatomists. There are, indeed, some passages in the writings of Galen,* which would lead us to suppose that certain * De Anat. Admin, lib. 7, sub finem; De usu partium, lib. 4. cap. 19; An sanguis in arteriis &c. cap. 5. parts of the absorbents had been seen by Erasistratus and Heiophilus, as well as by himself; but it appears that they were, all of them, unacquainted with the relation which these vessels bore to the other organs, and were entirely ignorant of their office and destination. These scanty observations of the ancients seem to have been entirely neglected, or even for- gotten, until the study of anatomy was revived, together with that of the other medical sciences, in the sixteenth century. In the course of the researches which were then made into the structure of the animal body, various parts of the absorbent system appear to have been brought into view, and are noticed, among other writers, by Fallopio,* who discovered the lym- phatics, connected with some of the abdominal viscera, and by Eustacliio,t who detected the thoracic duct. But although their descriptions, especially that of Eustachio, are sufficiently correct to enable us to identify them, as forming a part of die absorbent vessels, yet they were unacquainted with their specific nature and office, and with their relation to the sangui- ferous system. It is generally admitted that the merit of the discovery of the lacteals is due to Aselli; this discovery he made in the year 1622. While he was examining the abdominal viscera of a dog, he observed a series of vessels attached to the mesentery, which appeared to have no direct connexion with the arteries or veins, and which, from the circumstance of their con- taining a white opake fluid, he denominated Lacteals.J He regarded t'lem as a distinct set of vessels, exercising a specific function, distinct from that of the sanguiferous system, and he as- certained that they took their origin from the surface of the intestines, and proceeded to- wards the more central parts of the body, but it was not until the year 1651, that their ter- mination in the thoracic duct was discovered by Pecquet. § The discovery of the other species of ab- sorbent vessels, styled, from the appearance * " Observ. de Vcnis," lib. 3., in Op. p. 532; first published in 1561. We may add the names of Fabricio, Piso, and Gasscndi, who appear to have seen certain parts of the lymphatics, although they were not aware of their specific nature. See Bar- tholin, de Lact. Thor. c. 2; and Mascagni, Vas. Lymph. Hist. Proleg. sub init. t De Vena sine pari, Antig. 13, sub finem, in Opusc. Anat. ; first published in 1564. Sec Haller, Bibl. Anat., p. 224; also Douglas, Bibliog. Anat., p. 99. + Disseilatio do Lactibus; first published in 1627. See Bartholin, de Lact. Thor., c. 4; Sheldon on the Absorbent Syst., p. 20, 1. Aselli's work is ac- companied by plates of very rude execution, but sufficiently expressive of the object. § Exper. nova anat. ; first published in 1651; Bartholin, c. 5. In 1652, Van Horne published the first plate of the thoracic duct. There is some reason to suppose that Vesling had an imperfect view of it previous to Pecquet; he published his Syntagma Anat. in 1647. In describing the pancreas he speaks of the venas lacteae, lately discovered by Aselli, which convey the chyle to the liver, and figures them in tab. 4. fig. 3.