476 CARNIVORA. ticularly in the Badger. The acromion is small and slight in all the true Carnivora, but in those of the Insectivora which have true cla- vicles, it is long and robust. The coracoid process is generally present, but is wanting in the seals. The clavicle in the whole of this order is very slender, and must be considered as merely rudimentary. In the Hj/ena and the Dog it is extremely small; larger in the Mus- telidce, and still larger in the Cats. It is not attached to the sternum or to the scapula, but suspended, as it were, between these two bones, generally occupying not much more than half the space between them. The humerus is in general rather slender, long and nearly cylindrical when compared with that of the Pachydermatu, Ruminantia, and some others. It is somewhat arched, and the great tuberosity is very much developed ; this bone is short and broad, the aiiperior two- thirds being widened from before backwards, and the lower third from side to side. The /bre-a?7« is here, as in the other orders, composed of the radius and the ulna. The latter bone is generally placed immediately behind the former, and they have but little motion one on the other, excepting in the bear tribe, whose habits require more freedom of movement in the anterior extremity. That tendency to the expansion of the members into instruments fitted for swimming, which is so obvious in the Seals, is found to obtain in the two bones in question, which in this family are short, flattened, and very broad. The carpus in this order ofters a few pecu- liarities which may be slightly glanced at. The OS scaphdides and the os similunare form but one bone, which is of considerable size. The OS pisiforme is much elongated, forming a little spur or heel to the anterior feet, a peculiarity, however, which is wanting in the seals. The OS trapezium is very small in the Hj/ena, in which the thumb is but rudimentary. The metacarpal bones in the digitigrade car- nivora are much larger than in the plantigrade. In the latter the shortness of these bones, with the comparative length of the phalanges, gives somewhat of a plantigrade character even to the fore-feet, although the metacarpal bones do not actually rest upon the ground : whilst in the digitigrade famdies, and' especially in the cats, the metacarpals being much produced, and the phalanges very short, the part which rests upon the ground is greatly abbreviated. The phalanges offer some very interesting points of structure, particularly in the Felida, in which the terminal phalanx is retractile, or, on the other hand, can be thrust out and rendered the basis of a most formidable weapon. This character of the retractile claw is, in its full developement, peculiar to the family just named; and the Lion may be selected as offering, from its great size, the most conve- nient opportunity for its examination. In all the Carnivora the claw is fixed on the extremity of the last phalanx (Jig. 196, a, a), the hooked form of this part of the bone being an accurate model of the interior of the claw, and the base of the claw is secured within a thin lamina or hood of bone which covers it on the sides and above. In the animal just named this is par- ticularly strong and large. It is considerable also in the Badger, but less so in the Bears, the Dogs, the Hyenas, &c., and in the Civets it is very small. The penultimate phalanx is of a peculiar form. Its transverse section would be triangular, two of the sides being lateral, and the third inferior. On the inner face or side, there is a hollowing or twist of the bone, which leaves an oblique excavation in the middle. It is by the inferior portion of the last phalanx that it is articulated to the penul- timate, and beneath the joint a process of the last phalanx extends downwards, for the at- tachment of the muscles by which the toes are flexed, and consequently the claw protruded. When the claw is retracted or in a state of rest, the last phalanx is brought upwards and thrown completely hack on the inner side of the se- cond phalanx, being partly lodged in the lateral hollow before described. This is the condition of repose, and the last phalanx is held in this situation by the elasticity of the capsular liga- ment, and particularly by two lateral ligaments which arise from the second phalanx. 27)6 posterior extremitj/.—The pelvis in the Carnivora is shorter than in many other orders, and the ossa ilii particularly are flattened and rather broad. Their internal surface also is not turned forwards as in most other orders, but for the most part directed towards the spine, so that the ventral aspects of these two bones face each other. In most of the seals the ilia are short and small, compared with the other bones of the pelvis. The posterior or descending branch of the ischium, and the anterior portion of the ptibis are, in particular, much elongated in this family. The femur is strait, cylindrical, and mode- rately long in most of the Carnivora. In the Seals it is, however, extremely short, as may be observed in fg. 191. In this tribe this bone does not assume the direct backward direction of the leg-bones, but stands outwards and downwards, by which a great extent of motion is obtained for the hinder paddles. The tibia and fibula* (fig. 196, I, m; fig. 197, i, k; fig. 198, l,m;) are detached in most of the Carnivora; but in the Dog the fibula is attached to the back part of the tibia. In the Phocida these bones are long, flattened, directed backwards, and the tibia has a double curvature. The tarsus consists of the same bones in the Carnivora as in Man, (fig. 196, f,g,h,i,k,fig. 197, e,f,g,h,figA98,fi,g,h,k,) the OS calcis has a very long and robust tube- rosity both in the digitigrade (fig. 196, k) and plantigrade (fig. 197, h) forms. In the former there is also on the inferior surface a small tubercle which is wanting in the others. • The figures representing the hinder foot are selected for the purpose of shewing the three prin- cipal types of progression in the Carnivora. Fig, 196, tliat of the Lion, exhibits the digitigrade, _/{(/. 197, that of the polar bear, the plantigrade; and Jig. 198, that of the seal (Phoca vitulinaj, the natatory.