141 ANIMAL. and more numerous, and the nervous system generally more and more complicated as we rise in the scale of animal creation. Tlie ner- vous system is before long found to consist of other parts than a series of similar ganglions supplying at once the organs of sensation and those of digestion ; it has a central part super- added, from which issue immediately the nerves that supply the organs of the senses,— sight, hearing, taste, and smell, which at the same time make their appearance with their especial capacities. This central superadded portion is the b?-am, with its prolongation in the vertebrata entitled spinal murrow. Nor in the more perfect classes of the animal king- dom is the nervous system even thus simple; among them it consists essentially of two grand divisions, the one including the brain and spinal cord and the nerves thence pro- ceeding, the other constituted by the system of the great sympathetic, or that series of ganglions which, situated on either side of the vertebral column, from the head to the pelvis, are con- nected with one another, and with the cerebro- spinal system, by branches of communication, and furnish the digestive apparatus with almost the whole of the numerous nerves it receives. The nervous system in its relative degree of development and complexity becomes the ultimate standard by which the perfection of animals is estimated, and their place m the scale of creation assigned to them : if man stand alone and unattended, as he undoubtedly does, upon the summit of the pyramid, it is only because he possesses in his brain the organs of certain moral and intellectual facul- ties which occur in no other living thing; these confer on him his humanity; these are the ma- terial parts to which the soul is wedded during his existence. In intimate connection with the functions of phrenic or animal life, and developed nearly m the same ratio, is the muscular si/stem, the most universal agent of locomotion. Exceed- ingly simple at first, and operating at great disadvantage through a want of levers and points of support, we trace it becoming gra- dually more complicated as we ascend, and, finally, provided with a complementary skeleton or frame-work by means of which it acts to the best advantage. The skeleton among animals is of two kinds,—external and horny, internal and osseous. In the first case the muscular system is inclosed within the resisting pieces which it has to move; in the second it is without these, and is arranged around them. The bones and muscles together compose the numerous and variously fashioned instruments with which animals accomplish the promptings of their inward appetites and instincts. They form feet, fins, hands, the prehensile tail, &;c. The muscular system, and a modification of the osseous, the cartilaginous, moreover, com- pose the most universal instrument by which animals communicate their vicinity, their states, their dispositions or affections, &c. to one ano- ther-—this is the larynx. The means by which species are continued, are extremely varied. The very lowest tribes of animals we have seen shooting forth buds exactly like vegetables, and these being in due season detached from the body of the parent, find themselves fitted to commence an inde- pendent existence. At the next step we take in ascent, however, we meet with particular organs of reproduction ; and, singular enough, tlie moment these exist they are not of one, but of two kinds, denominated male and fe- male. Sometimes these organs are possessed by single individuals, far more commonly, however, they are divided between two, whence the so uniform division of the beings com- posing the animal kingdom into sexes. The simplest form of the male organ of generation is a gland secreting a fecundating fluid (the testis) and an excretory duct: the simplest form of the female apparatus of generation is a gland or body producing germs (the ovary) and an excretory duct. In a greater state of complication or development these essential parts in the male have an instrument super- added to them by which the fecundating fluid is carried directly into the body of the female, and in the female the ovary has a dilatable cavity superadded in which the germ remains for a season, and until its included embryo attains such a state of development as is com- patible with its more independent existence surrounded by the circumstances amid which it is afterwards to live. In the higher classes, the connection between the parent and offspring does rvot cease immediately on the birth of the latter, and in the highest of all we find the female furnished with a complementary apparatus (the mammse), from which she fur- nishes her young with food during the first period of its existence. Actions of animals.—The foregoing rapid sketch of the grand features of distinction among animals with reference to their struc- ture naturally leads to the inference of di- versity of function in harmony with the pecu- liar organization possessed by each. In the lowest grades of animal existence we have seen to how simple a process the act of nutrition —this act so complicated among the more elevated tribes,—is reduced. It consists merely of imbibition or absorption by and of exha- lation from the general surface of the body. The matters absorbed appear to be assimilated incontinently, or to be made a part of, and to receive the form proper to, the animal in the instant of their assumption: applied imme- diately to the homogeneous organism, the nutriment is forthwith made a portion of its substance. The vital decomposition of the bodies of these lower animals is accomplished with the same simplicity and directness : the surface that absorbs is also that which exhales the worn-out particles of the system. The first step by which nutrition becomes more complex, as we rise in the scale of cre- ation, is the institution of a process of solution (digestion), by which the matters appropriated as aliment are prepared for reception into the body. This process of solutioii is accom- plished by powers inherent in the animal itself, within a cavity destined for the purpose. In