694 CIRRONOSrS—CONCHIFERA. (about which there can be no doubt) is sucli as strongly to indicate its adaptation to free loco- motion ; and that, after a review of all the ob- servations that have been published on the subject, we are inclined to conclude in favour of Mr. Thompson's opinion that, in the early stages of its development, the young Cirriped really enjoys locomotive powers, and then un- •4ergoes such changes of structure as are re- quired to fit it for its altered circumstances in adult age. Bibliography.—Leeuwenhoek, Opera, iii. 472. lister, iSxercit. anat. 1696, p. 96. Cuvier, Mem. pcufr setvir a I'histoire des Mollusques, 1817. La- "iniirck, Anim. sans vertebres, V. 377. J.V.Thomp- i Bon, Zoological researches, 1830; Foiirtli Memoii ; and Phil. Trans. 1835, 355. Wagner, in Archiv fur anat. physiol. &c. von D. J. Miiller, 1834, No. V. Burmeister, Beitrage zur Naturgeschichte der Raukenfuesser, Berlin, 1834. Martin St. Ange, Memoire sur I'organization des Cirripedes et leurs rapports naturels avec les animaux articules, Paris, (John Coldstream.) CIRRONOSIS. (Ki§§o?, fidvus; voiroq, morbus.J In a memoir published by M. Lob- stein in the first volume of the Repertoire d'Anatomie and de Physiologie* for the year 1826, this term was applied to what that author considers to be a disease affecting the foetus at an early period of intra-uterine life. The essential characteristic of the malady consists in the serous or transparent membranes being dyed of a beautiful deep golden yellow colour. " The disease is," says M. Lobstein, " an internal jaundice of the peritoneum, of the pleura, of the pericardium, of the arachnoid, differing from the ordinary jaundice, in that it does not affect the parenchymatous cellular tissue of organs, nor the subcutaneous tissue, nor the skin, the usual seats of that disease." Lobstein published the first account of the occurrence of these appearances in two five- month fcEtuses, in his Rapports sur les travaux executes a TAmphitheatie d'Anatomie de Strasbourg.! Since that time additional cases were presented to his attention, from which he ascertained that the yellow staining was not confined to the serous membranes only, but also was found in the nervous tissues, espe- cially those of the spinal marrow and encepha- lon. By the aid of the microscope he perceived that the substance of the marrow seemed to be composed, as it were, of small grains of a lemon yellow colour, mixed with a white and pulpy substance, as if a very fine gold-coloured powder had been intimately mixed with a soft and semi-transparent jelly. In these cases the thoracic portion of the sympathetic also exhi- bited a similar colour, and the ganglia were somewhat swollen, and it was ascertained by the microscope that the stain was equally inherent in the nervous substance of the ganglia as in that of the spinal marrow. It is impossible to remove the yellow stain * Rep. d'Anat. et de Phys., t. i. p. 141. t Page 26, ed. in 4to. from the structures in this condition either by ablution or immersion for any length of time in alcohol or water. The intensity of the colour was not diminished in preparations which had been preserved in spirits for seven- teen years, neither was it affected by the action of light. The difficulty of accounting for the pheno- mena which constitute this disease of the embryo is much increased by the fact that cirronosis has hitherto been observed only in three or five month fcetuses. As at this period the biliary secretion has not begun to be formed in the usual way, we cannot attribute the occurrence of this disease to any of the causes which give rise to ordinary jaundice, so com- monly met with in the foetus at and shortly after birth. There seems, however, to be no reason to doubt that the elementary constituents of the biliary secretion may already exist in the blood at an early period of intra-uterine life, and that from them the stain may have been communicated to the serous membranes and nervous tissues. But we cannot but express our concurrence in the opinion of Andral, that cirronosis differs only in situa- tion from the ordinary icterus infantum or neonatorum; there being this remarkable dis- tinction also, that the tissues which are the seat of the colour in cirronosis are rarely affected in jaundice. Although the observations of Lobstein were first published ten years ago, I do not find that they have been confirmed by any subse- quent observer. The preceding account, there- fore, of this disease rests entirely upon his authority, and is drawn up chiefly from his paper in the Repertoire already referred to. (R. B. Todd.) COLLOID. See Scirrhus. CONCHIFERA. Fr. Conchiferes. When we take a general view of the organization of the extensive series of Mollusca, two prin- cipal classes are readily distinguished, one of which has been raised to the rank of the pri- mordial division of the animal kingdom by Lamarck ; this class, comprising the whole of the Acephala of Cuvier, as well as the Bra- chiopoda, has received the name of Conchi- FERA. The mollusks included in the class of Conchifera present peculiar characters which prevent their being confounded in any point of the series with the other classes of the same sub-kingdom. They are all contained within a bivalve shell, generally articulated after the manner of a hinge; to this shell the animal is attached by one or several muscles, and the shell itself is secreted by a fleshy envelope, generally thin, but having the edge thickened, to which naturalists agree in giv- ing the name of mantle. The animal, of a structure more simple than other mollusks, has no head; the mouth is pierced at the anterior extremity and is the entrance to organs of di- gestion, consisting of a stomach, an intestine of different lengths, an anus, and an organ