630 CILIA. the detached parts, as it had done previous to their separation. At the time of making these observations I had not been able to detect Cilia in these larvte, although, from the analogy of the In- vertebrata, I was led carefully to look for them. Since then I have succeeded in perceiving them with the aid of Wollaston's doublet of one-thirlyfifth of an inch focus, especially when a portion of the gill is compressed under a plate of mica. They are to be distinguished chiefly by their waving motion, which is so charac- teristic as to remove all doubt of their ex- istence ; though here, as in other instances in which they are very minute, it is not always possible to demonstrate their existence by actual observation on every spot of the sur- face. Ova of the Batrachia.—In the course of the above-mentioned observations, I was led to enquire whether the phenomena in question appeared at a still earlier stage. With this view I examined the ova of the Newt, which for a considerable time may be procured in all degrees of advancement, and found that the ciliary motion presented itself in the embryo a considerable time before its exclusion from the egg. Since then I have observed the same with regard to the embryo of the Frog. In both cases the embryo is formed from the yolk or opaque central part of the ovum, by a series of changes sufficiently well known ; it is surrounded by a clear fluid, which is inclosed between it and the external pellucid membrane of the egg. By means of a lens, minute bodies may generally be perceived floating in the fluid, which by their motion serve to indicate the currents that take place in it; but with a little care the embryo may be extracted from the egg, and then the course of the currents along its surface can be ren- dered more evident by the usual means. A (Jig. 310) is an enlarged view of the embryo Fig. 310. Embryo of the Frog. of the Frog at the earliest stage at which I have detected the motion. The vertebral canal is just closed, and at the fore part of the body three ridges on each side indicate the com- mencement of the gills. The arrows point out the course of the currents. They proceeded backwards along the dorsal surface, diverging in a direction downwards and backwards on the sides. They were visible but weaker on the abdominal surface. B represents the em- bryo farther advanced, the currents have nearly the same direction but are better marked, they are strongest on the lateral eminences of the head which correspond to the future gills. In the embryo of the Newt, the phenomena are in a great measure similar; the currents seemed, however, to begin and to continue most vigorous on the abdominal surface; they are more particularly described in the paper re- ferred to. On extracting the embryo of the Frog, and viewing its surface in profile with Wollaston's doublet, moving cilia may be perceived on various parts. They appear like a transparent undulating line on the surface, and, though very minute, are so distinct as to leave no doubt of their existence. No one can fail to perceive the analogy which subsists between the phenomena just described, and those which occur in the ova of Zoophytes and Mollusca. I have not been able distinctly to perceive a rotation of the embryo of the Batrachia, as observed in the other instances, but Purkinje and Valentin state that they have seen it, and Rusconi ob- served that the embryo of the Frog, when extracted from the ovum, turned round in a certain direction, which motion he supposed to be produced by water entering and issuing through pores in the skin.* The phenomena in the Batrachian larvae have since been observed by Muller,t Raspail,|; and Purkinje and Valentin.§ The last men- tioned naturalists also distinguished the cilia and perceived the motion within the egg. Adult Batrachia.—The ciliary motion was discovered in the adult Batrachia by Purkinje and Valentin ; indeed, it may not be improper again to state that the discovery of the phe- nomena in adult Reptiles generally, and in Birds and Mammiferous animals, is due to these phy- siologists. According to their account, the ciliary mo- tion in the Batrachia, as well as in all other vertebrated animals in which they have dis- covered it, occurs in two situations within the body, viz. on the lining membrane of the respiratory organs and on that of the genital organs of the female. They state that it exists over the whole internal surface of the lungs, and in the nose, mouth, and pharynx, extend- ing as far back in the throat as the glottis, but no flirther. They say nothing of the direction of the impulsion. Again, in the female, they discovered the motion on the internal surface of the oviduct. The result of my own ex- amination of the Newt, Frog, and Toad is somewhat different. In all the three I found the ciliary motion very distinct in the mouth, throat, and gullet; in none could I perceive it in the lungs, notwithstanding very careful trials. In regard to the oviduct I have examined it only in the Newt, and although I could per- ceive something like the motion on the edges of its superior orifice, I could not detect it on the internal surface of the tube.|| * Sur le Developpemcnt de la Grenouille Com- mune. Milan, 1826. t Burdach's Physiologie, Bd. iv. p. 434. t Chimie Oiganique, 1833, p. 250. § Op.cit. II Edin, New Phil. Journal, xix.