745 CRANIUM. Tliere are but few skulls which are perfectly symmetrical, although the variation of one side from the other is generally so slight that the eye does not at once detect it. In numerous cases, however, the want of symmetry forcibly obtrudes itself; sometimes one half is considerably larger than the other; and in other cases it appears to be thrown out of position, as though, during the time that the parietes were soft, pressure had been applied in front and behind, and, by a sort of rotatory movement, it had been drawn back on one side and pushed forward on the opposite. There does not appear to be an absolute uniformity among the skulls of this description saving that the projections are always situated diagonally with respect to each other; that is, if it be twisted to the right, the right half of the frontal bone will be in advance of the left; while the posterior part of the left parietal, and die corresponding side of the occipital bone, will project behind the right. This is by far the most prevalent variation, but, occasionally, the left half of the frontal bone is in advance, and, in such instances, the posterior increase will be on the right side. The change which takes place in advanced age can scarcely be accounted an anomaly. At that period the skull is much more an entire bone than it is in the earlier epochs. The sutures are to a certain extent effaced, and a mere line indicates the former disjunction of the bones. It is on the interior of the skull that these sutures are first effaced, and on the exterior die order of obliteration is from the summit to the base. It has been affirmed that the volume of the skull diminishes in old age, and that it is susceptible of change, in different directions, after the bones are locked together. It is, however, certain that its external con- figuration is somewhat altered, for the promi- nences formed by the centres of ossification of the parietal and frontal bones become flattened and undistinguishable from the rest of the parietes; which, as old age sets in, become thinner than they were previously. This change, however, is but temporary, for, in extreme old age, the skull is thicker and more porous than at any antecedent period of life. This hyper- trophy is produced by the recession of the inner from the outer table, and the conversion of some part of the substance of each into a thin spongy tissue; the diploe itself sustaining an analogous alteration, by the enlargement of its cells, and the thinning of the plates which form their walls. Occasional instances occur in which the skull is of inordinate thickness, and this, appa- rendy, without its being connected with the age of the subject. The late Mr. Joshua Brookes had some sections of a skull, found in a church- yard in Lancashire, of nearly three quarters of an inch in thickness; and specimens have been seen of more than an inch. In some of them the diplije is perfect, the augmentation being in the two tables; in others, and indeed in the majority of specimens, the two tables and die diplue are confounded together in one thick mass of matter, which is of an ivory hardness. It is not improbable that we miglu justly refer this VOL. I. condition, as well as some other peculiarities of the cranium, to inflammation of the bone itself, or of its investing membranes. That exostosis is the product of a limited periostitis admits of but little dispute, and it is very likely that those cases of hyperostosis in which there is a uniform deposit of bone, only mark the effect of a more diffused and general inflammation ; the more so, since we meet with these local and general deposits, as well on the inner, as on the outer table of the skull, and for the existence of which it would otherwise be impossible to account. When they occur on the inner table, the func- tions of the brain are usually more or less dis- turbed, aUhough it would appear that the mental manifestations are not always implicated. In the skull of an idiot of advanced age, examined several years since by the writer of this article, there was a uniform deposition to the extent of nearly a quarter of an inch; and in a recent autopsy of a young girl, he found the entire syncipital region very irregular in its surface, from being studded with variously-sized nodules, the bases of which flowed into and were lost in each other. This girl was of feeble intellect, and the victim of epilepsy. In die examination of a body at the Hotel Dieu, by Mr. King, that gentleman discovered on the petrous portion of the tem- poral bone a tumour which he had not been led to expect by any indication of suffering which appeared during life. This tumour had the volume of a marble or pistol-bullet, was cel- lular in its structure, and perfectly smooth on its surface ; a depression exactly corresponding to it was found on the under surface of the middle lobe of the brain, but its substance and membranes had their normal characters. The cranium is oftentimes found in the oppo- site state of atrophy, in which the balance be- tween deposition and absorption seems to have been disturbed, so much to the prejudice of the former, that the walls are sometimes not much thicker than a piece of paper. When- ever die two textures maintain their usual pro- portion, this atrophy may be regarded as a natural abnormal state; but those cases in which either the inorganic or animal element preponderates, and a fragility or softening of the bone is thereby established, must be referred to some constitutional affection in which the rest of the osseous system has participated, and the influence of which it will not fail to exhibit. In addition to exostosis and hyperostosis, the cranium sustains other pathological changes as the effects of inflammation. Previously to the establishment of osteitis, whether from a common or specific cause, mercurial or syphilitic, there is found that stasis of the blood which always precedes inflam- mation. The sanguineous complexion of the diploe in cases of erysipelas testifies that this engorgement may be produced by increased action in the neighbouring teguments. It has already been stated that hypertrophy of the cranium may be regarded as a termina- tion of osteitis. When inflammation is limited in its action and of long duration,it is probable that the ossific element is poured into the cells 3 c