AVES. 325 of the fertile districts of a tropical country, ve- getable food of a more easily digestible nature may be selected, and it need not be detained un- necessarily long, where a fresh supply can be so readily procured. But in the Ostrich, which dwells amidst arid sands and banen deserts, every contrivance has been adopted in the struc- ture of the digestive apparatus to extract the whole of the nutritious matter of the food which is swallowed. In the Grallatores, where no material dif- ferences of locomotive powers or means of obtaining food exist, the caeca present in their development a direct relation to die nature of the food, and are most developed in the Gruida. The same holds good in the Nutatores. Why the increased extent of intestinal sur- face in the above different cases sliould be chiefly obtained by the elongation of the coeca, will appear from the following considerations. In consequence of the stones and other foreign bodies which birds swallow, it is necessary that there should be a free passage for these through the intestinal canal, which is therefore generally short and of pretty uniform diameter. In the Omnivorousbirdsofthe ti-opics,as theliornbills, Toucans, Touracos, and Parrots, which dwell among ever-bearing fruit-trees, the rapid pas- sage of the food is not inconsistent with tlie extraction of a due supply of nourishment, but is compensated by the unfailing abundance of the supply. But where a greater quantity of the chyle is to be extracted from the food, and where, from the nature of the latter, a greater proportion of foreign substances is required for its tritura- tion,—while the advantages of a short intestinal tract are obt;iined, the chyme is at the same time prevented from being prematurely expelled by the superaddition of the two coecal bags which communicate with the intestines by orifices that are too small to admit pebbles or undigested seeds, but which allow the chyme to pass in. Here, therefore, it is detained, and chylification assisted by the secretion of the coecal parietes, and the due proportion of nutri- ment extracted. The large intestine is seldom more than a tenth part of the length of the body, and, except in the Ostrich and Bustard, is continued straight from the coeca to the cloaca; it may therefore be termed tlie rectum rather than the colon. It is usually wider than the small in- testine, and its villi are coarser, shorter, and less numerous. ITie rectum (a, Jig. 164) terminates by a valvular circular orifice (6), in a more or less dilated cavity, which is the remains of the allantois, and now forms a rudimental urinary bladder, (c d). The ureters (A h), and efferent parts of the generative ap- paratus fj] g,) open into a transverse groove at the lower part of the urinary dilatation, and beyond this is the external cavity which lodges, as in the Reptiles and Marsupial and Moflotrematous Quadrupeds, the anal glands and the exciting organs of generation. The anal follicles in Birds are lodged in a conical glan- dular cavity, which communicates with the pos- terior part of the outer compartment of the cloaca, and has obtained from its discoverer the name of Bujsa Fabrkii (A). Berthold considers this part as a subdivision of the urinary bladder in Birds, and Geoffroy St. Hilaire as the analogue of Cowper's glands. Chaca of the Condor. Digestive glands. ■—• The liver is large iis Birds, and proportionally larger in the Aquatic species than in Birds of Prey. In the former Posterior view of the hilin.rrj and panoreaiic <ht(i in the HornbiU.