551 CEPHALOPODA. nerve terminates in this ganglion, (v, v, fig. 226,) from which about twenty branches radiate to the mantle; but in the Decapoda, in which lateral fins are superadded to the trunk, it pre- viously divides into two large branches. Of these the external alone produces the ganglion from which the sensitive nerves are distributed in a radiated manner, as in the Poulp; the other division (e,fig. 232), after having been joined by a branch (f) from the ganglion, pierces the fleshy substance of the mantle, and ends in a diverging series of twigs appropriated to the muscles of the fin (g). In proportion as the trunk of the Cephalopod is elongated, these branches become more parallel in their course, and dorsal in their position. The anterior part of the mantle is supplied by small nerves, having a distinct origin from the posterior suboesophageal mass, above the great moto-seusitive chords. With respect to the parts of the central axis of the nervous system of the Vertebrata which are represented by the structures above de- scribed, we may reasonably infer from the fact that the supracesopliageal mass in the Dibran- chiate Cephalopods, especially the posterior division, is principally in communication with, and owes its superior development chiefly in relation to the complex organs of vision, that it is analogous to the optic lobes or bigeminal bodies. For if it be regarded, as Cuvier sup- poses, as the cerebellum of the vertebrate brain, we have then to reconcile the anomaly of this part being the seat of origin of the optic nerves. The constancy, again, of the optic lobes in the vertebrate series, and their priority of develop- ment to the cerebellum, leads naturally to the expectation that these would form part of such a brain as the highest invertebrate animal is endowed with. The smaller portion of the brain of the Poulp anterior to the optic lobes appears to represent an olfactory lobe. With respect to the inferior oesophageal mass, as it gives origin to the auditory and respiratory nerves, and those two large moto-sensitive co- lumns, which evidently represent, by their structure and position, the spinal cord of the Vertebrata, we consider it as fulfilling the function of the medulla oblongata, and to be the part of the nervous centre which is most intimately connected with the vital energies of the animal.* Organs of Sense.—The Cephalopodous class is the only one in the Invertebrate series in which distinct organs of sight, hearing, smell, and taste, have been detected, although the en- joyment of these senses is evidently by no means limited to this class. Considerable differences, however, present themselves in the relative complexity, and even as to the existence of the different Organs of Sense in the two orders of Cephalopods: thus, of the senses which relate to distant objects, the Organ of Hearing appears to be wanting in the Nautilus, and the Organ of Vision is comparatively imperfect, • See vol. iii. pt. 1, p. 187. Physiological Cata- logue of the Musoum of the Royal College of Sur- geons, 4to. 1835. while those which take cognizance of proximate objects are more distinctly and extensively developed. Organ of Sight.—In the Nautilus the eyes are supported on short pedicles which project outwardly from the sides of the head. They are of a spherical form, slightly flattened ante- riorly ; are large as compared with the pe- dunculated eyes of Gasteropods, but are of small size as compared with the complex visual organs of the Dibranchiates. They presented, in Mr. Bennett's specimen, the simplest con- dition of an organ of vision, consisting only of a darkened globular cavity or camera ob- scura, into which light was admitted by a single orifice, and a nerve expanded at the opposite side to receive the impression; the mechanism for regulating the admission of the impinging rays was wanting, and every trace of that which modifies their direction had disappeared. The form of the eye was maintained by a tough unyielding sclerotic coat (k, fg. 231), which became thinner towards the anterior part of the eye, where it was perforated by a circular aper- ture less than a line in diameter (m). The nerves continued from the small oval optic ganglion (2) expand, and immediately line the sclerotic as far as the middle of the globe, forming a strong re- ticulate retina (o), which, together with the rest of the cavity, is lined by a black pigment (n). There was no appearance of vitreous humour or crystalline lens; but both parts would no doubt be found to exist in the recent state. In the Dibranchiata the eyes are sessile, but in some species project beyond the sur- face of the head more than in others; their complicated structure is truly one of the most remarkable features of the organization of this singular class. The eyeball in the Cuttle-fish is inclosed in a capsule consisting posteriorly of a thick carti- lage (a, 234),in its lateral circumference Fig. 234. Section of the Eye of the Cuttle-fish. of a strong white fibrous membrane (h,b), and anteriorly of the cornea (o). The whole of the inner surface of the cap- sule is lined by a thin serous membrane, as far