434 BONE, NORMAL ANATOMY. which is not perforated with the communi- cating branches. Some lymphatics have been discovered in its tissue, but no nerves; how- ever, the diseases to which it is subject, the symptoms to which these give rise, and the changes that follow, leave no doubt of the existence of both. That cellular substance enters into its formation is inferred from some of its morbid phenomena, as gra- nulation ; and independently of this argument, on which we do not lay much stress, its exter- nal fibres are evidently of a mixed nature, com- bining common cellular membrane with its own peculiar substance. The proper and essential part is the dense, inelastic, and very resisting fibre, by which it is associated with other fibrous membranes. (See Fibrous Tissue.) The older anatomists believed that the periosteum had its origin from the dura matei, and might be traced as one continuous membrane over every bone in the body. Boer- haave asserts (Prselectiones Academicae) that if we could remove it without rupture, we should have an exact mould of the skeleton with all the joints. Its origin from the dura mater was said to take place through the fora- mina which transmitted the nerves ; there the dura mater separated into two layers, one of which enveloped the nerves as neurilema, the other the bones as periosteum. But there does not appear, on close inspection, to be any actual identity between the dura mater and periosteum, although they are most intimately connected ; and there certainly is no continuity of the latter membrane over the joints. It is true that we may, at least in young subjects, after boiling, tear off the articular ligaments with the periosteum, but the tendons come off with it too ; and in both cases the fibres are seen to be interlaced, not continuous. Various uses have been assigned to the peri- osteum, such as modelling the bone in its growth and adding new layers to it, for the further consideration of which we refer to the article Osteogeny. It is, moreover, also said to be useful for the purpose of protecting the bone from the impression of surrounding muscles, arteries, &c., and vice versa, shield- ing them from the rough and unyielding osseous substance; permitting the soft parts to move freely without injury ; and serving as a centre for the fibrous system in general. This last is, in Bichat's opinion, a most important use; he considers its attachment to bone is more for the purpose of affording a point d'appui to the fibrous system than for any office it can fulfil with regard to the osseous system.* B. Medulla or marrow.—When a longitu- dinal section of a long bone is made, we ob- serve a large tubular cavity occupying the shaft, becoming smaller as we recede from the centre, and replaced in the extremities by the spongy tissue. This tube is rounded, not having exactly the triangular form so commonly presented by the bone externally. Its surface is rough, especially near the ends, as if it had * Anat. Gen. tome iii. Par. 1812. originally contained cells which were in some way or other broken up. All this cavity is filled with a peculiar, soft, adipose substance— the medulla (quasi in medio), contained in a membrane of extreme delicacy. The medullary membrane, or internal peri- osteum as it is often called, resembles the pia mater in structure, being composed of vessels ramifying minutely in fine cellular tissue. Its tenuity is such that some anato- mists have doubted its existence, but we have only to look into any well-boiled marrowbone, and we shall no longer doubt. It may be shown too by roasting a bone, or macerating it for some time in a diluted mineral acid. This membrane sends numberless prolonga- tions from its inner surface into the medulla which it contains. It is to these processes that the marrow is indebted for its consistence; they form cells and areolse which support and maintain the vesicles in which the medullary fat is lodged. They are exquisitely fine, and almost invisible; we lacerate them with a touch. The oily substance of the marrow is not in immediate contact with these cells. It is contained in distinct vpsicles,vvhich are beau- tifully figured by Havers. The vesicles are little bags which do not communicate with each other, but look like a cluster of pearls, as Monro observes. When bones have been long buried or macerated, the marrow often assumes a granular appearance depending on this vesicular arrangement. A fine artery runs to each, ramifies on it minutely, and is the source of its secretion. This vessel may be demonstrated. Each artery has its accompa- nying vein, and, though we cannot see absor- bents and nerves, their presence is inferred from analogy and various phenomena. Mar- row is merely a variety of adipose substance, and to the article on that subject we refer for the chemical properties and some generalities respecting it. Marrow is not confined to the medullary canal. It is to be found in the cells of the spongy extremities of the long bones, and in the areolae of the short. It exists in the diploe of the flat bones, and even in the longitudinal canals and pores of the compact tissue every where. In all these situations a membrane lines the osseous cell or pore, and secretes the contents. The membrane is still finer than that of the medullary canal, and the oil is less consistent. The communication between the membranous lining is kept up by vascular prolongations, not by a continuity of cavity. In the bones of the head we find certain cells, called sinuses, which contain air, not marrow. They are distinct from the cells of the diploe, with which they have no communication. There is a free anastomosis between the vessels of the medullary membrane and those of the bone and periosteum everywhere. Near the middle of the long bones a fora- men is observed by which an artery of con- siderable size passes in to the medullary cavity, where it divides into two branches, one for either end. These extend to the extremities of the canal in a beautiful network on its lining