CEPHALOPODA. 518 In tlie first of these, which is most closely allied to the Gasteropodous Mol- lusks, the branchiae are four in number, and the order is therefore termed Tetra- branchiiita : in the higher division, which approaches nearest to the Vertebrate ani- mals, the branchiae are two in number, and the order is called Dibranchiuta. Order I. TETRABRANCHIATA. Syn. Polythalamaces, Blainville: S'pl>o- nifem, D'Orbigny; minus the Spuulicla and Belemnitida. The Tctrabmnchiate Cephalopoda, of which the Pearly Nautilus (Jig. 205) may be regarded as the type, are provided with a laige external uni- valve shell, sym- metrical in form like the body of the animal which it protects, straight, or con- voluted on a ver- tical plane, and divided by a se- ries of partitions (rt, a) into nume- rous chambers (/),6),of which the last-formed {b') is the largest, and alone contains the body of the animal: a dilatable and contractile tube (c, c) is continued from the posterior part of the M. D'Orbigny believes to be constructed by mol- luscous animals of a grade of organization wbich entitles them to rank with the Cephalopodous class. For this group of animals M. De Haan has pro- posed the name of Asiphonoidea ; but M. B'Orbigny, observing that the chambers of their shells com- municate together by means of one or more fora- mina, has substituted the positive term Foraminifera, and they are placed by Cuvier at the end of the Cephalopodous class under that denomination in the last edition of the Rogne Animal. Strong evidence has, however, been recently ad- duced to prove that these minute shells owe their existence to animals which have no pretensions to rank with the Cephalopods ; but before we give the account of M. Dujardin, who is the author of this view, we sliall first quote M. D'Orbigny's own description of the animal of the shells, the struc- ture of which he has so ably studied and so happily demonstrated by means of enlarged models. " The Cephalopods of the Foraminiferous Order liave a biirsiform body, in the posterior part of which the shell is lodged ; the body of the animal sometimes presents a great size compared to that of the head, to which it is occasionally subservient as a means of protection, entirely surrounding it in the anterior folds of the skin. The head is small, scarcely, if at all, distinct from the body, terminated by numerous tentacle* forming many rows around the mouth, which is central. The animal seems to adhere very slightly to the shell; it rapidly passes into a state of decomposition after death, when the slightest touch is sufficient to detach it from the shell, in which nothing is left but a coloured liquid which fills all its chambers. The food of these animals consists of different species of Polyps." M. De Blainville, however, states, in the Ap- pendix to liis Manuel de Malacologie, page 649, ^hat the animal of one of the microscopic genera con- Fig. 205. The Pearly Nautilus, Nautilus Pompilius, Linn. animal through all the partitions and cham- bers of the shell; but the attachment of the shell to the body is effected by means of tained in his order Cellulacea, viz. Mitiola, has no relation whatever in its structure to a Cephalopod, or Cri/ptodibranche. And more recently M. Dujar- din has read a memoir, entitled ' Sur les SympUc- tomeres, ou pretendus Cephalopodes microscopiqves,' in which the results of numerous and apparently careful observations on the soft parts of different genera of the animals in question are directly op- posed to those of M. D'Orbigny. M. Dujardin carefully studied the Miliol.-E,Vortici- alise, RotaliaE,TruncatulinEe, Cristellariae, Mellonia?, &c. in the recent and living state; and found that theshell'was not internal, and that the animal, wliich is absoliltely deprived of organs of locomotion and even of respiration, is composed of a succession of joints or lobes, which go on increasing successively, and enveloping each other. The only period when the soft parts of the animal are visible externally, is when a new joint is produced wliich has not com- pleted the formation of its chamber. On breaking the shell, the composition of the animal is found to be as simple as in the Planarias or Hydrae, or any other animals of the Acrite sub-kingdom; and on dissolving the shell by means of a mixture of alcohol and very weak nitric acid, the entire body is obtained, which is formed of a succession of articulations, occupying all the chambers; and presenting different aspects in different genera, which accord with the peculiarities of the shell. From these observations it necessarily follows that the Foraminifera of M. D'Orbigny cannot be arranged with the Cephalopods, or even placed in the Molluscous Series. M. Dujardin, therefore, proposes to consider them as a distinct class of Invertebrata, under the name of Symplectmneres; and until further and better evidence be adduced to the contrary, we shall regard these minute ani- mals as having only, in the form and structure of their shells, a remote analogical relation to the Cephalopods.