CEPHALOPODA. 556 In the Sepiola the part corresponding to that called the prostate by Cuvier exists, but is relatively smaller, and the duct by which it communicates with and is appended to the vas deferens is relatively longer; the sac of the filaments is relatively larger, exceeding doubly the dimensions of the testis; the penis is much shorter. In the Onychoteuthis the penis is merely grooved, as in the Pectinibranchiate Mollusks, not perforated, and such may be expected to be its structure in the Pearly Nautilus. With respect to the act of impregnation in the Cephalopods, Aristotle gives two accounts. In the fifth book of the Historia AniinaUum it is stated that the Octopus, Sepia, and Cala- mary, all copulate in the same manner; the male and female having their heads turned to- wards one another, and their cephalic arms being so co-adapted as to adhere by the mutual apposition of the suckers. In this act the Poulps are described as seeking the bottom,while the Cuttles and Calamaries are stated to swim freely in the water, the individual of one sex moving forwards, the other backwards. Aris- totle also observes that the ova are expelled by the funnel, which the Greeks called physeteru ((py<7»T»ga), and some, he adds, assert that the coitus takes place through that part. From the position of the oviduct at the base of the funnel, and the inclination of the penis to the same part, from the left side, the latter supposition derives some piobability, espe- cially with respect to the Sepia and Sepioteu- this, in which the penis is of large size, although true intromission is physically impossible in these, as in all other Cephalopods. There may, however, be an imperfect connexion, analogous to that of the Frog, Toad, &c. and it is worthy of remark that the differences in the situation where the coitus is said to take place, in Aristotle's remarkable account, corresponds with the modifications of the locomotive powers in the three genera treated of; it is only, for example, in the Sepia and Loligo that the indi- viduals are provided with posterior fins for swimming forwards. In the twelfth chapter of the sixth book of the Historia Animalium, where the generation of Fishes is treated of, the Stagyrite ob- serves — ' When they (fishes) bring forth, the male following the female sprinkles the ova with his semen:—the same thing happens in the Malakia; for in the genus Sepia, where the female deposits the ova, the male follows and impregnates them : this possibly happens in like manner to other Malakia, but, hitherto, it has been observed in the Sepiae alone.' It reflects, perhaps, little credit on modern Naturalists, that the knowledge of this part of tlie eco- nomy of the Cephalopods should remain in the same unsatisfactory and conjectural state as it was two thousand years ago. The female organs exhibit four principal types of structure in the Cephalopods. The ovary is single in all. In the Nautilus there is one oviduct, and one superadded glandular appendage. In the Sepia and many others, there is also Fig. 238. Female Organs of the Nautilus. one oviduct, but there are two separated ni- damental glandular laminated organs which open near its extremity. In the Loligo sagittata there are two distinct oviducts, and two separate nidamental glands. In the Octopoda there are two distinct ovi- ducts, each of which, as in the Ray and Shark, passes through a glandular organ in its course towards the base of the funnel, but there are no detached glands. In the Nautilus the ovary (a, fig. 238) is situated, as in the higher Cephalopods, at the posterior part of the visceral sac, in a distinct compartment of the peritoneum ; and the gizzard, which here descends lower down than in the Dibranchiata, is lodged by its side. The ovary is of an oblong compressed form, and in the specimen dissected, measured one inch and a half in length and one inch in breadth. It consists of a simple undivided hollow sac, with thick and apparently glan- dular parietes, rugose on the inner surface, and having an anterior aperture (6) with puck- ered margins, directed forwards. The ovisacs (c, c) are numerous, of an oval form, and attached by one extremity, in a linear series, along the internal surface of the ovarian sac on the dorsal aspect. In the specimen liere described they were collapsed, and had evidently recently discharged their ova; the rent orifices by which these had escaped were still patent and conspicuous. The tunics of the ovisacs, as in the Dibranchiata, were glandular, but the internal plicae did not present the reticulate disposition characteristic of the corresponding parts in the Sepia, &c. The exterior thin membrane (d) of the ovary is continued forwards to form the oviduct: the thick glandular tunics of this canal com- mence by a distinct aperture (e), just above the outlet of the ovary, and continue increasing in thickness to the extremity of the oviduct, where the glandular membrane is disposed in numerous deep and close-set folds: the