114 ANIMAL KINGDOM. face of the water in still warm evenings in tro- pical seas; some, as the clio borealis, figured above, abound in the Arctic seas. (See Pte- ROPODA.) 18. Cephulopodu, free cyclo-gaiigliated or mulluscous animals, with the feet disposed around the head, respiring by internal branchiae, and with the abdominal cavity enveloped by a muscular mantle open anteriorly. The cepha- lopods are all marme animals capable of swim- ming by means of membranous or muscular expansions, which are never supported by rays. The surface of the body is often naked, some- times covered with a shell, which is generally po- lythalamous, rarely monothalamous, and always inoperculate. There is often a concealed, loose, dorsal, calcareous or horny shell contained in a shut subcutaneous sac. The mouth is fur- nished with two horny or calcified mandibles, and the rudiments of an internal organized cartilaginous cranium and vertebral column are generally perceptible, together with some de- tached parts of the skeleton of vertebrata. The oesophagus is surrounded by a nervous collar, from which two supra-abdominal nervous co- lumns generally extend along the middle of the back, and sympathetic ganglia are observed in the abdominal cavity as in the inferior mollus- cous classes. These are predaceous animals, and the alimentary canal, though generally furnished with three enlargements, forming a crop, a gizzard, and a spiral or proper chylific stomach, is always very short. There are two pairs of salivary glands; the liver is of great size, and pours its secretion, with that of the pancreatic follicles, into the stomach, as in the inferior classes. There is always a strong mus- cular systemic ventricle, and generally a di- vided auricle placed at the beginning of the branchial arteries. The common form of the chylopoietic organs is seen in those of the loligopsis guttata, (fg. 44,) where the liver {a a a a) pours its se- Fig. 44. cretion by ducts {b), which are surrounded and pene- trated by the pancrea- tic follicles (c c), and which unite into a single canal before f ^ ~ £ they open by a valvular aperture into the third or chylific stomach (,/g). The crop {d) ends in the strong muscular giz- zard (f), and from the third stomach {f g) the short intestine (/() ascends in front of the liver to terminate by a valvular anus at the base of the funnel. The naked species have a glandu- lar sac for secreting a black inky matter, which appears to be wanting in those protected by an external shell, excepting in the argonauta, where the shell is seen in the ovum, and where there is a slisiht membranous connexion be- tween the animal and its thin delicate calca- reous covering. The sexes are generally sepa- rate, but the lowest foraminiferous cephalo- pods appear to approach to the pteropods in the male and female character of the genital organs. (See Cephalopoda.) The last or highest division of the animal kingdom, comprehending the vertebrated or red-blooded animals, or spim-cerf.biiata,con- sists of five distinct classes, characterised chiefly by their generative, their sanguiferous, and their tegumentary organs, viz.— 19. Pisces, cold and red-blooded oviparous vertebrated animals, with one auricle and one ventricle to the heart, breathing by permanent branchia;, and with fins for progressive motion. They have a vertebral column and cranium, enclosing a spinal cord, and brain consisting of a medidla oblongata, optic lobes, cerebral hemispheres, olfactory tubercles, and a cere- bellum. The hands and feet are always formed like fins for progressive motion in a watery element. The fins are supported by rays pro- longed from the skeleton, the body is generally covered with scales, the trunk is organized for the lateral motion of the tail, there is no sacrum, and the pelvic arch is unconnected with the vertebral column. The bones are elastic or cartilaginous, and the centres of ossification for the most part remain perma- nently detached. The bodies of the vertebrae terminate in two cup-like cavities, they move on elastic tense intervertebral sacs, and the transverse processes are directed vertically downwards in the coccygeal region of the skeleton to facilitate the lateral motion of the trunk. The muscles, of a white colour, are disposed in oblique strata on the sides of the trunk for the movement of the elastic vertebral column. The mouth, destitute of salivary glands, is generally furnished with numerous unequal, irregular, fangless, osseous teeth, and the wide oesophagus, short like the neck, leads to a capacious stomach, from which the in- testine, shorter than in the higher classes, and nearly equal throughout, proceeds, without ccecal enlargement, to terminate in a cloacal sac on the inferior surface of the trunk. Tlie liver is large, and pours its secretion generally by a single duct into the duodenum, near the pyloric extremity of the stomach and close to the opening of the pancreatic duct, as shown in the annexed figures of these parts in the frog-fish {fg. 45, A) and the cod (fg. 45, B). The oesophagus (a) of the frog-fish {fg 45, A) leads to a large globular stomach (c) with a strong muscular cardiac sphincter {b). The pyloric extremity is also surrounded with strong muscular bands {d), and beyond its pyloric valve two pancreatic simple glandular follicles (e e) open into the duodenum (g) close to the opening of the ductus communis chole- dochus ( /■). In the cod ( fig. 45, B) the wide oesophagus (a) leads to a long and capacious muscular stomach shut below, and immediately beyond the pyloric valve, formed by a circular fold of the mucous coat, open the ducts of numerous straight and simple pancreatic folli-