500 CAVITY. sent, finds its way into tlie synovial sac, and ex- cites inflammation there. The disease of the bone commonly giving rise to this ulcer is the slovi^ strumous affection of the spongy extremities, so accurately de- scribed by Sir B. Brodie, the symptoms of which are familiar to every surgeon. A more acute inflammation of the osseous tissue is oc- casionally to be seen, and may be followed by a disease of the same nature, or differing only in the quickness of the course it pursues. (6) Secondary inflammation extending from the synovial membrane is most apt to attack the edges of the cartilages in the first instance. These are thinned, as if abraded, and over- lapped by the vascular or disorganized mem- brane. The bone remains sound, as in the primary ulceration. For further particulars on the ulceration of cartilage, see Joint. Does fractured cartilage ever unite by cartilage ? It probably never does. The costal cartilages, when broken, unite by lymph, which soon after is converted in bone, but never appears to form true cartilage. When a fracture extends into a joint, as we often see in the condyles of the humerus and femur, the divided cartilage is united by a cicatrix, which is not truly car- tilaginous. Neither does it appear that car- tilage is ever regenerated. Laennec believed it was: " in examining a knee-joint, he found in the centre of the articulating surfaces, in place of the natural cartilage, a thin cartilaginous lamina, semitransparent, adherent to the bone; the old cartilage formed around it a projecting border, as if fimbriated."* This observation certainly was not enough to establish its power of regeneration. We often find in cases of gout and rheumatism, and especially in the disease designated morbus coxa senilis, that the cartilage is removed, and in its place a compact shining layer of osseous sub- stance like ivory deposited. This is not owing to an ossification of the cartilage, for the cartilage is often found completely absorbed, and the rough bone exposed, which, if seen at a later period, would doubtless be covered with this deposit to prevent the disintegration of its cancellated structure. Bibliography.—Hunter on the structure and diseases of articulating cartilages, Philos. Trans. 1743. Haase, De fabrica cartilaginum, 4to. Lips. 1767. Aiithenrieth, De gravioribus qiiibusdam cartilaginum mutationibus, 8vo. Tiibing, 1798. Mayo, Acute form of ulceration of the cartilages of Joints, Mcdico-Chirurg. Trans, vol, xi. Cru- veilhier, Obs. sur les cartilages diarthrodiaux, et les maladies des articulations, Archives Gen. de Med. t. iv. 1824; Ej. Usure des cartilages articu- laires, Nouv. Biblioth. Med. t. i. Observations on accidental or loose cartilages may be found, by Cruiksluink, in Med. and Philos. Comm. of Edinb. vol. iv. ; by Coley, in Med.-Chir. Trans vol. v. ; by Horne, in Trans, of a Society for Improv. Med. and Chirurg. Knowledge, vol. i.; by Desault, in his Jonrn. de Chirurg. t. ii. ; by Abernethy, in his Surg. Observations ; by Laennec, in the art. Car- tilages Accidentels cf the Diet, des Sc. Med. ; by Cruveilhier, in Nouv. Bib. Med. t. i. 1827 ; &c. And remarks on special forms of disease affecting the cartilages occur in the general treatises on dis- * Op. cit. p. 240. eases of the joints, as those of Cooper, Brodie, Sclireger, Wilson, and Scott.—Vide Bibliography of Articulation. CChm-les Benson.) CAVITY, in anatomy, {cavitas; Yr.cavite; Germ. Hohle; Ital. ca^I^^a.)—This term is used, in anatomy, to signify any excavation or even depression of more than ordinary depth, whicii may exist in or between solid parts. Hence we find cavities existing in bones, or formed by the junction of one or more bones, which, as they are severally destined for articulation with other bones, or for the reception or transmis- sion of certain tendons, vessels, &c. are de- signated articular or non-articular. (See Bon e.) But we have likewise large excavations whose walls are of a more complicated arrangement, and which are destined to receive and protect those organs which are concerned in the func- tions of innervation, respiration, and digestion, and throughout a large proportion of the classes composing the animal kingdom are three in number, namely, the Cephalic or Cranial cavity, containing the brain—the Thoracic cavity, containing the organs of respiration— and the Abdominal cavity, containing the organs of digestion and of the secretion of urine. To this last is appended, as a continua- tion, the Pelvic cavity, which is chiefly de- voted to the organs of generation, as well as to some of those connected with the urinary ex- cretion. We refer for particulars connected with the other cavities to the articles Cranium, Thorax, and Pelvis, and proceed to consider succinctly the anatomy of the Abdominal Cavity in its Normal as well as Abnormal conditions.* Abdominal Cavity, (in human anatomy.) The annexed woodcut exhibits a vertical section of the body intended to show the tho- racic and abdominal cavities, from which the viscera have been removed. A simple reference to it and to Jig. 204 will sufficiently explain the form and boundaries of the latter cavity, which have been already fully described in the article Abdomen. Our object in the present article is to examine the abdominal cavity as it is brought under the eye of the anatomist, v/hen its contents have been exposed by removing or cutting through the abdominal parietes. * Some anatomists object to the use of the term cavity, because, say the^, every hollow in the animal body is full. Sych an objection, on the principle of nature's abhorrence of a vacuum, would go to discard the use of the term, even from ordinary discourse. Considering the word in re- ference to its etymology, it is synonymous with excavation, which in no way implies emptiness, and it is in this sense that we must employ it in anatomical description. 1 apprehend that con- fusion has arisen from employing the same word to denote the excavation bounded by bone or by bone and muscle, in which the viscus or viscera are lodged, and to indicate the bag or sac of the serous membrane by which each of the three great cavi- ties is lined. In this latter sense, the term cavity is certainly not appropriate, at least it may be most advantageously laid aside ; and we can use, without the same risk of confusion, the expression bag or sac of the peritoneum, pleura, &c.