CILIA. Valentin state the effects which liioy found to result from the application of various sub- stances, but erroneously conceiving, from some preliminary trials, that the same substance produced the same effect in all animals, they confined their experiments to the Fresh-water Mussel. According to their experiments,which were made with a great many different sub- stances, most of the common acid, alkaline, and saline solutions, when concentrated, arrest the motion instantaneously; dilution, to a degree varying in different substances, pre- vents this effect altogether, and a less degree of dilution delays it. The same is the case with alcohol, a;ther, aqua laurocerasi, sugar, and empyreumatic oil. Kreosote, muriate of baryta, sulphate of quinine, infusio pyrethri, and muriate of veratria, act less intensely. Hy- drocyanic acid and watery solutions or in- fusions of belladonna, opium, capsicum, ca- techu, aloes, musk, gum-arabic, acetate of morphia, and nitrate of strychnia, produce no effect whatever. They accordingly infer that the substances affect the motion only in so far as they act chemically on the tissue. The result of my own experiments differs from theirs in some points. In the River-mus- sel I found that hydrocyanic acid, containing ten per cent, of pure acid, invariably destroyed the motion. Solution of muriate of morphia, of medicinal strength, also arrested the motion in the Mussel, but not in the Batrachian larv*. The motion on the gills of these larva also continues unimpaired in water deprived of air by boiling, or distilled, or impregnated with carbonic acid; a sufficient proof, it may be remarked, that it is independent of the che- mical process of respiration. In regard to the effect of animal fluids, the authors already mentioned state that bile ar- rests the motion, while blood has the property of preserving it much beyond the time that it lasts in other circumstances, at least in veite- biated animals; thus it continued three days in a portion of the windpipe of the Rabbit, which had been kept in blood. But it is sin- gular that blood or serum, whether of Quadru- peds, Birds, or Reptiles, has quite the opposite effect on the cilia of invertebrated animals, arresting their motion almost instantaneously. Albumen and milk also possess the conserva- tive property, though in a less degree. 8. Effects of injiuwiiiution.— Purkinje and Valentin excited inflammation artificially in the nose and vagina of rabbits, and are in- clined to conclude from their experiments, which however are not numerous, that inflam- mation arrests the motion. 9. Of the power by which the cilia are moved.—It may next be inquired by what means or by what power the cilia are moved ; and, in particular, whether their motion, like other visible movements in the animal body, is effected by muscular action. Dr. Grant,* reflecting that in the Berije a vessel conveying water runs beneath each row * Trans, of Zoological Society of London, vol. i. p. 11. of cilia, and that, according to M. Audouin, in an allied genus of animals the water enters the cilia, is disposed to liken the motion of the Cilia to that of the feet of the Ecliinoder- mata. lie seems accordingly to think it pro- bable that the cilia are tubular organs, which are distended and protruded by the injection of water into them from elastic tubes running along their base, m which the water is conveyed by successive undulations. This view, however, seems scarcely recon- cilable with the fact that the motion of the cilia continues in parts separated from their connexion with the rest of the body, portions so small that not more than two or three cilia are attached to them, and in which the ope- ration of the supposed undulating tubes can scarcely be conceived. Ehrenberg states that in the Infusoria he observed that the cilia were bulbous at the root, and that they were moved by small mus- cles attached to the bulb. Purkhije and Va- lentin also admit the existence of a bulb, and they conceive it likely that the cilia are moved either by muscular substance placed within the bulb, or by certain fibres which they be- lieve they have discovered in the adjacent tissue. They describe these fibres as existing in the substance of the membranes or other parts supporting the cilia, being situated at the surface, straight and parallel, and ap- pearing to be connected together by delicate cellular tissue ; and they think it highly pro- bable that they are of a muscular nature. The whole phenomena of the ciliary motion seem to me most consistent with the notion that it is produced by muscular action. I must confess, however, that I have never seen tlie muscular fibres described, nor the bulbs ; and perhaps the cilia are not moved merely by muscular fibres attached to their base, like the whiskers of the seal and cat, but may con- tain muscular substance throughout a greater or less portion of their lengdi, by which they can be bent and extended; or perhaps tliey may in some instances be bent by muscular fibres, and resume their original shape and position by virtue of their elasticity. We need not hesitate to admit that the ciliary motion is the result of muscular action on account of the smallness of the muscular apparatus necessary; for the researches of Ehrenberg on the Infusoria have brought to light examples of complex organization on as minute a scale as any here required. Nor need we hesitate on account of the great ra- pidity of action; for there are familiar instances of muscular motions of equal velocity. The continuance of the ciliary motion after death and in parts detached from the rest of the body, and its regularity in these circumstances, are appearances, startling at first, but which, though they differ in degree, may be fairly compared with those produced in similar cir- cumstances by involuntary muscular action, and may be attributed to the same cause. Thus the different parts of the heart, which during life contract in a certain order inde- pendently of the will, continue to act in tlie 2 T 2