CEPHALOPODA. 527 which can lend but a feeble assistance in main- taining the shell in its natural position. The mantle of the Nautilus is very thin and membranous, excepting at its free margin, where it is provided with longitudinal mus- cular fibres for its retraction, and a thin exter- nal stratum of transverse fibres, for the closing of its anterior aperture, during the expulsion of the respiratory currents. The large mandibles (a, b,jig.2\7; e, f, fig. 219,) are supported upon a fleshy substance {g, Jig. 217), and moved by appropriate mus- cles. The fringed lip (c, ^g. 217) which sur- rounds them is provided with a longitudinal stratum of fibres for its retraction, and an exte- rior orbicular sphincter at its anterior margin. The whole buccal apparatus is attached to the cartilaginous skeleton by four strong retractor muscles, two above (A, fi,Jig. 217, 219), and two below ((, i, fig. 217), and its base is sur- rounded by a transverse stratum of muscular fibres ((, Jig. 219) continued from the external labial processes, across the upper or dorsal aspect of the jaws, which, by the cohtraction of these fibres, are protruded outwards. The tongue (Jig. 236) is a large complex muscular organ, the extremity of which is retracted by two pair of long slender muscles (f/) arising from the dense membrane closing the lower part of the mouth ; a third pair of muscles {b) given off from the posterior mar- gins of the lower mandible are inserted into the anterior extremity of the horny lingual rasp hereafter to be described. Other internal muscular parts will be mentioned in the de- scription of the viscera to which they relate. The muscular system of the Dibranchiate Cephalopods, like their internal skeleton, is much more elaborately developed than in the inferior order of which the Nautilus is the type : but the same plan may be observed to go- vern the disposition of all the principal masses. A hollow cone of muscular fibres is attached by a truncated apex to the anterior margin of tiie cephalic cartilage, or to processes deve- loped therefrom, in order to afford these fibres an increased surface of origin. The fibres are mterlaccd, one with another, in a close and com])act manner as the cone expands to form the cavity containing the fleshy mass of mouth; and at the anterior extremity of the mouth they are continued forwards and separate into eight distinct portions, which form tiie arms. These organs are developed in a kind of inverse proportion to the body, being generally, as Aristotle* twice takes occasion to observe, longest in the short round-bodied Octopi or Poulps, and shortest in the long-bodied Cala- maries, Sepia;, &c. in which the two elongated retractile tentacles {d, fig. 207, 208, 209) are superadded, by way of compensation. These latter organs are rarely continued from the muscular cone inclosing the apparatus of the mouth, but arise from the cepiialic cartilage, close together, internal to tlie origins of the * He Hisloria Aiiimalium, ( Ed. Schneider, Lip- side,) lib. IV. c. 1. 8 & 9. ventral pair of brachia; they proceed at first outwards to a large membranous cavity situated anterior to the eyes, and thence emerge between the third and fourth arms on either side. The acetabula or suckers are disposed along the whole extent of the inner surface of tiie ordinary arms, but are generally confined to the extremities of the tentacles, where they are closely aggregated on the inner aspect. Of the diflerence between the arms and tentacles Aristotle was well aware, and ac- cordingly, with his usual exactness, he applies' to them distinct epithets: nsJac f^h oZv oari woXuTTo'Saiv. "iJia J' ip^ou<7-(V ai te cnwiai Hal al tsoSiSec icai 01 TtSSoi ^uo TTfoPjoa-xiSaf f^anfaq tvr' ax^m ifci- ■jQiTma. iyaio-at; j.jt^iTij^ov.* " All (mollia) have eight feet, provided with a double series of suckers, except in one genus of Polypi.f Tiie Sepia;, Teuthides, and Teuthi,J have, besides, two \ow^ ■prohoicide$, the extremities of which are beset with a double series of suckers." Pliny gives, after the Stagyrite, the fol- lowing notice of their functions, " Sepia; et Loligini pedes duo ex his longissimi et asperi, quibus ad ora admovent cibos, et in fluctibus se, velut ancoris, stabiliunt." German authors generally term the ordinary feet, 'arms,'('an«e,_) and the tentacles '■ &&i&xii,' (fangarme.) In the Cephalopods which have only the eight normal feet, tliese present many vari- ations; and, although they are generally re- markable for their length, yet in some species, as the Octopus brevlpes, they are extremely short, resembling the digital processes of the Nautilus. In Octopus Ei/lais, the first or dorsal pair is alone developed so as to serve as a locomotive organ,and the animal mustcrawl along the ground by means of this pair only. In most Octopods the first pair of feet is the longest. In Octopus Aranea, in whicii the feet apparently present the maximum of de- velopment, the dorsal feet are ten times, and the ventral ones five times, the length of the body. Besides their superior length the dorsal feet present other peculiarities in this family of Cephalopods. In the genus Aigoriauta (fg. 206, c 1,) they are provided with expanded membranes, the fabled use of which has af- forded a beautiful subject for poetic imagery in all ages; but similar appendages occur in Octopus violuceus, and in Octopus velij'er, in which both the first and second pairs of feet support broad and thin membranes at their extremities. Now neither of these species in- habit a shell, in which the expanded mem- branes could be used to waft the animal along the surface of the ocean, as has been said or sung of the Argonaut from Aristotle to Cuvier, from Callimaclius to Byron. The physiologist, in contemplating the structure of the velatcd arms, is compelled to disallow them the power of being maintained erect and expanded to » Ibid. lib. iv. c. 1. 4. t The genus Eledone of Aristotle, the eight feet ol' which have only a single series of suckers upon ejich. I Species of Loliijo or Calamaries, supposi'd to be the LolU/o vuhjaris and Loligo media of modern naturalists.