7!25 CRANIUM. less the same; and a glance at the seveml classes of vertebrated animals will demonstrate that security for the brain is the grand aim of the contrivance, and that the modification it sustains in the case of Fishes and Reptiles is for the purpose of carrying into effect some additional design. Considering the cranium as a capsule for the brain, its form is necessarily determined by the extent to which that organ is developed in the several classes of animals; while, at the same time, the nature of its organization is in harmo- nious correspondence with their habits,and with the external circumstances by which they are surrounded. By pursuing this inquiry from the lowest to the highest animals, it will be per- ceived that, as respects both form and struc- ture, additions are made in proportion as the endowments are of a more and more exalted character; and further, that these successive changes of structure are the changes which the human skull itself experiences in its progress from a foetal to an adult condition The rudimentary part of the most elaborate cranium is a sac consisting of two membranes and an intervening gelatinous fluid; in the next step of the formative process, this gelati- nous fluid gives place to cartilage. A deposi- tion of earthy matter in this cartilaginous nidus gives it firmness, but breaks up the sac into isolated ununited patches. These isolated patches coalesce in definite numbers, and thus establish a secondary and less numerous divi- sion of ununited parts; these, in their turn, approach and combine with each other, form- ing a solid case of bone; and lastly, this solid case resolves itself into two tables of different structure, and a still further differing connect- ing medium. In each and all of these states through which the crania of the Mammalia pass there is presented to us a type of the skull in some lower animal. In Fishes the cranium is little more than a tubular continuation of the spine through the head to contain a similar prolongation of the medulla spinalis. These, however, are not in contact. A mass of reticulated membrane, holding in its cells a gelatinous fluid, forms the real superior investment of the brain ; while the superjacent parietes are designed to afford an extensive origin to the muscles of the body; and as these muscles increase, so does the sur- face of their attachment. For this purpose it is that the ossific deposits remain ununited, that, by being simply in juxtaposition, or at most over- lappmg each other, they may unfold them- selves, and thereby admit of the head being at all times in proportion to the rest of the body. In Reptiles the skull is still further deve- loped. It is charged more with earthy than with animal matter; and this being loosely distriouted, tough spongy bones are the result. The tardiness of their circulation does not favour the combination of the individual por- tions, and the bones are therefore for the most part loose, although some of them unite by a species of anchylosis in the direction in which defence is required. In Birds the character both of form and structure is greatly changed; light, fragile, and compact, it is (by reason of the high state of vitality which prevails) so rapidly and com- pletely ossified over its entire surface as to afford no evidence, or but a very slight one, of its original subdivision. In conformity with the development of the brain, it extends itself backwards, to each side, and upwards as well as forwards, thus constituting a considerable portion of the entire head. In Mammiferous animals the skull is more compact than that of Reptiles and more diffuse than that of Birds. Its elementary portions unite so as to form a determinate number of bones which are either dovetailed together by the interlacement of crooked processes with which their edges are liberally studded, or flow into each other so as to exhibit no trace of their junction. Its structure is made up of two osseous lamellae, called an inner and an outer table, which are united by an areolar ossific tissue, termed diplo'e, that adds greatly to the defensive properties of the skull. TheCranium (in human anatomy) is a hollow bone of an ovoid figure ; elongated from be- hind forwards; narrower before than behind; compressed on the anterior part of its sides; surmounting the face and spine, and projecting considerably beyond the latter. It contains in its parietes the organs of hearing, and contributes to form the orbits, the nostrils, and the face. The dome-like upper portion is termed the calvariu, and the lower part is the buxe. The former presents the si/iicipiit in front, the occiput behind, the vertex or bregma, (^^i^fxet, fioni irrlgo,) above, and the temples on the sides. Placed at the summit of the body and des- tined to contain the brain, the skull is pierced at its base by numerous foramina for the trans- mission, 1st. of the nerves which estiiblish the communication between the brain and other organs; and 2dly, of the vessels which supply the brain and its membranes. From the inferior surface of the cranium, be- tween its anterior and middle thirds, there de- scend two columns which limit posteriorly the boundaries of the face; so that it is anteriorly to these columns that it contributes to form the orbits and the nose, and consequently there the bones which enter into the composition of the face are fixed to it. Hence the surface of that pait is very irregular, presenting, in addition to the foramina, depressions and elevations, sulci and processes indicative of the articulation of bones and the lodgement of other organs. Posteriorly, between its middle and posterior thirds, the base of the cranium overtops the spine, and a great opening there establishes the continuity of the vertebral canal with the inte- rior of the skull; and the muscles which move the head and maintain its equipoise being at- tached around, but especially behind this open- ing, the skull is strongly marked in that direc- tion. The intermediate space or middle third is above the pharynx, offering, centrally,a plain surface to form the roof of that cavity, and,