CIRRliOPODA. the five valves just described, there are other eight smaller calcareous plates arranged around the junction of the peduncle with the shells. The shells of the Balanids present several striking peculiarities of structure, and, in their mode of growth, offer to the physiologist an interesting subject for investigation. They form truncated cones, the bases of which, without the intervention of peduncles, are fixed to rocks, floating wood, integuments of marine animals, &c. These cones are composed of several pieces, closely cemented together so as to admit of no motion between them, excepting during the process of enlargement of the shell. In the common acorn-shells (Jig. 333), which cover our litto- Fig. 333. ral rocks and the bottoms of ships, there are seven of these pieces, six form- mg the walls, and one dis- coid, forming the base. The outer surface of the parietal valves is mark- ed by the lines " of growth in such a manner as to give it the appearance of being com- posed of twelve pieces. These may be termed compartments. They are all conical. Six of them have their bases applied to the common base of the shell, and the other six are inserted between these, with their apices towards the common base. The first six we shall refer to under the name of \^^^. first series of compart- ments (a, a, jig. 333) ; the other six constitute the second series {b, b, Jig. 333). The opening in the summit of the cone is closed by an opercule composed of four shelly pieces so arranged as to leave a longitudinal fissure be- tween them, through which the arms are pro- truded (c, Jig. 333). The two series of com- partments differ much from one another in their external aspect, owing to the differences in the directions and appearances of the lines of growth. The second series have a smoother surface, and are marked with very delicate lines, both longitudinal and transverse ; they are also less prominent than the first series. The lines on the first series are chiefly trans- verse, and correspond with the outline of the base. On the internal surface of the walls there are six deep grooves, in the bottoms of which a^e seen the openings into certain cham- bers, constituting a sort of diploe of the valves, hereafter to be described. These grooves run from the summit to the base of the shell, and are the internal edges of the sutures of the six parietal valves. Around the internal margin of the common base there is a series of holes opening into certain tubes that terminate on the outer margin of the shell. When all the valves are separated at the sutures, it is found that each of four of the six compartments of the first series, as they appear externally, has attached to its dorsal margin one of the second series, and that the union between these two is exceedingly intimate, in fact that they form one piece, notwithstanding their apparent division externally. Two of the second series of compartments are attached to the anterior valve, while the dorsal valve has none. The anteal margins of the lateral valves and both margins of the dorsal valve are marked by transverse depressions corresponding to the numerous partitions of the chambered com- partments which are fitted into them ; and, externally, each has a projecting margin. To the upper part of the inner surface of each valve there is attached a laminated process, form- ing part of a circle of calcareous plates which gives support to some parts of the mande. The internal structure of these shells pre- sents some peculiar features. They all contain numerous tubes and cavities, regularly ar- ranged, and forming a sort of diploe. The suture-holes mentioned above open each into a separate canal, chamber, or tube. Those which occur in rows on the walls of the cone lead to small chambers within the second series of compartments, running parallel with the general base, and separated from one another by delicately-formed partitions, each of which is deeply grooved on both sides. The par- titions are placed at equal distances, and their grooves are most regularly formed. The whole presents one of the most beautiful and delicate pieces of structure with which we are ac- quainted in the whole range of extravascular skeletons. These are from thirteen to fifteen on either side of each partition, f/g. 334 repre- sents a perpendicular section Fig. 334. of a few of these grooved par- titions considerably magnified. Fig. 335 represents a horizontal section of one of the six valves. The holes forming the sutures are at «. The grooved Hoor of one of the chambers of the piece is be- Fig. 335. tween a, d, and f. d, c is the outer '-■^ wall of the " compartment of the se- cond series, a, 6 is a section of that part of the valve which appears outside as a compart- ment of the first series. Its diploe is com- posed of tubes, running from the ape\ to the base, gradually enlarging below. Horizontal sectioris of those tubes shew them to be of an ovate form, tapering inwardly (fg. 336). They are placed nearer Fig. 336. the outer wall than ing sides of the tubes are marked with lines of growth, shew- ing a gradual filling up of the tubes from within outwards; and also the previous ex- istence of furrows or grooves on the surfaces of the partitions between the tubes. These