.538 CEPHALOPODA. served in the class. Here the biliary ducts, as soon as they emerge from the liver, branch out into an arborescent mass of larger and more elongated follicles than those constituting the hepatic parenchyma; these ramifications extend full half an inch iiom the hepatic duct, and conceal the upper halves of both the stomach and pyloric appendage. Organs of Circulation.— Prior to the dis- section of the Nautilus Pompilius the Ce- phalopods were regarded as having three dis- tinct hearts, a peculiarity which is not found in the circulating system of any other class of animals. In the Nautilus, however, there is but one ventricle, which is systemic, as in the inferior Mollusks; and the three hearts are, therefore, characteristic only of the Dibran- chiate or higher order of Cephalopods. These differences in the circulating system of thetwoorders are accompanied with equally well marked modifications of the respiratory organs; and hence the primary divisions of the class are each distinguished by characters of equal value, and derived from modifications of those organs which afford the most natural indica- tions of the corresponding groups in the other classes of the Molluscous division of Inverte- brate animals. In the Nautilus the veins which return the blood from the labial and digital tentacles and adjacent parts of the head and mouth, termi- nate in the sinus excavated in the substance of the cephalic cartilage. From this sinus the great anterior vena cava {a, fig. 224) is continued, running in the interspace of the shell-muscles on the ventral aspect of the abdominal cavity, and terminating in a sinus (6) just within the pericardium, where it receives the venous trunks of the viscera. (These are indicated by bristles in the figure.) The structure of the vena cava is very remark- able ; it is of a flattened form, being included be- tween a strong membrane on the lower or ventral aspect, and a layer of transverse muscular fibres, which decussate each other on the upperor dorsal aspect; both the membrane and the muscle pass across from the inferior margin of one shell-muscle to the other; they consequently increase in breadth as those muscles diverge, and complete the parietes of the abdomen on the ventral aspect. The vein, however, main- tains a more uniform calibre by its proper internal coat, leaving a space on either side between the membrane and muscle. The ad- hesion of the proper membrane to the muscular fibres is very strong, and these, though ex- trinsic to the vessel, form part of its parietes on the dorsal aspect. There are several small intervals left between the muscular fibres and corresponding round apertures (a') in the mem- brane of the vein and contiguous peritoneum, by which the latter membrane becomes continuous with the lining membrane of the vein : from this structure it would seem that the blood Fig. 224.