462 BONE, PATHOLOGICAL CONDITIONS OF. opinions of the highest and most respectable authorities, although we cannot coincide with them in classing cancer as a species of osteo- sarcoma. Pathologically they are distinct and different diseases, appearing in patients of dif- ferent ages, habits, and conditions of health, and exhibiting totally different phenomena; and practically they are not alike, for it would be as insane to attempt the removal of a bone contaminated by an adjacent cancer, as it would be cruel to refuse the chance of an ope- ration to one afflicted with true osteo-sarcoma. The disease is only malignant in its tendency to re-appear, nor can it be previously ascer- tained by the symptoms, or subsequently by examination of the tumour, whether it is likely to show this disposition or not. Those nodu- lated tumours that occur on the fingers and wrists of children, and which are so admirably described and delineated by Bell,* almost in- variably reappear in some other situation after removal. This we have seen remarkably ex- emplified in the case of a little girl who was admitted into hospital with the two fore-fingers and thumb affected with this disease: they were amputated, but in nine weeks afterwards both the radius and ulna were attacked, and the arm was cut off. In seven weeks both clavicles were engaged, and the little patient was sent to the country, from which she never returned. Besides the development at an early age, a rapidity of growth, accompanied by in- tensity of pain, is considered as indicative of a most unfavourable disposition in the system. Yet is tlie contrary no assurance of safety, for we have seen a case in which the disease had lasted for five years and without much suffer- ing, return after removal, and destroy the pa- tient in less than twelve months. In general, however, the remark seems to be grounded on experience. The presence of a deep and foul ulceration within the tumour is rather unpro- mising : in Mr. Cusack's six cases of excision of the lower jaw, the disease returned in one only, and in that this kind of ulcer had pre- -viously existed. It may, too, be hiid down as an unvarying rule that the secondary appear- ance of osteo-sarcoma is more painful and more rapid in its progress than in its first and original attack. It is uniformly fatal. The first approaches of osteo-sarcoma are usually insidious, and as it is in general not a very painful affection, it may (particularly in children) escape observation at its very earliest periods. Any bone may be attacked by it, but in the adult it is more frequently situated in the spongy extremities of the long bones and in the lower jaw, whilst the phalanges, carpal and metacarpal bones, the radius, the ulna, and the clavicle furnish the best and most frequent spe- cimens in the younger subject. It occurs often idiopathically, and on the other hand it occa- sionally follows or seems to follow a fracture or other injury, as if the disposition existed in the system, and only required some stimulus to direct it to any one situation. It commences usually by a small, firm, immovable tubercular- * Loc. citat. like tumour appearing to spring from some part of the bone: soon after another of these may make its appearance, but these, in the first in- stance, are free from pain and insensible to pressure. As it increases, the pain assumes a dull and aching character, in the jaw frequently mistaken for tooth-ache, in other bones for rheumatism. The degree of suffering, however, is not a very strong characteristic, for it will depend on the rapidity of growth, the disten- sion suffered, the sensibility of the parts com- pressed, and a number of other circumstances too obvious to require detail. In ordinary cases, it has been remarked that the pain ob- serves a more than progressive increase with the size of the tumour, particularly if its growth has been accelerated by any accidental injury. In the advanced stages it is always severe, and in some instances dreadful. In one of Bell's cases, it is stated that there was no hour of the night or day in which the patient's wild cries could not be heard miles ofl^. In most in- stances the sufferer is completely deprived of sleep, and in some he complains of nocturnal exacerbations. Once formed, it grows with greater or less rapidity, often appearing stationary for some time, and then suddenlyandquickly increasing : sometimes, on the contrary, it increases rapidly from the commencement, and we have removed an osteo-sarcoma of the lower jaw, which at- tained to the enormous weight of 4 lbs. 1 oz. avoirdupoise in the short space of eight months. Whilst the tumour is comparatively small, the skin is pale and glassy and stretched, and blue veins are seen meandering on its surface : when large, its colour is dark red, verging to purple, and multitudes of these little veins appear upon it. It is, generally, firm to the touch, solid and heavy ; but occasionally an examination with the fingers discovers the osseous covering of the tumour to be very thin, and it yields on pressure with a peculiar sensation of elasticity, such as one might conceive parchment to con- vey if not stretched very tightly. At length it gives way, and a foul ulcer is formed, dis- charging an unhealthy fetid pus, often mixed with blood. The character usually attributed to this ulceration is fungoid, but we have never seen it thus. It commences generally in the centre of the tumour by a slough, and gradually makes its way outwards to burst by two or three apertures, and we have seen an immense osteo-sarcoma of the lower jaw completely tra- versed by ulceration, one opening being in the mouth and the other at the inferior and most depending part of the tumour. These ulcers are usually hollow, attended with loss of sub- stance, and we have not observed one that could have been easily mistaken for fungus hsematodes. Independent of any malignancy inherent in the tumour, it is evident that osteo-sarcoma may destroy life by being so situated as to compress some important or even vital organ, more par- ticularly if such situation precludes the possibi- lity of removal by a surgical operation. Such, for instance, was Mr. Crampton's case, in which the diseased growth sprung from the roof of the