AOUTA. 19G and left branch; the right follows tlie right part of the transverse colon, and anastomoses with the superior branch of the colica dextra ; the left branch follows the left portion of the transverse colon, and communicates with the left colic branch of the inferior mesenteric artery. The colica dextra or middle right colic artery arises close to the colica media, sometimes from a trunk common to both, and sometimes from the ileo-colic. After its origin it passes for- wards, upwards, and to the right in the meso- colon towards the ascending colon, and divides mto two branches ; one superior ascends to anastomose with the right branch of the colica media, the other descends along the concavity of the ascending colon, and communicates with the ascending branch of the ileo-colic. The ileu-colic, ccecal, or inferior right colic passes downwards, and to the right towards the ccecum, and then divides into three branches; the first ascends in the meso-colon, and anas- tomoses with the descending branch of the colica dextra; the second communicates in the mesentery with the termination of the superior mesenteric; and the third, arising in the angle between the two preceding, passes behind the junction of the ileum with the ccecum : at this place it gives off a branch which forms a small arch in the mesentery of the vermiform appen- dix, and then divides into two branches, one of which passes upwards on the colon, and the other descends on the ccecum. The colic arte- ries, by their anastomoses with each other, form arches, from the convexities of which, turned towards the intestine, numerous branches arise; each of these again divides into two, which with the contiguous vessels form smaller arches, and straight branches finally arise from the ultimate arches, which, passing on either side of the intestine, include it between them, and anastomose on its convex edge. In the foetus we have the omphalo-mesen- teric artery arising from the superior mesen- teric ; this vessel, which passes along the um- bilical cord to the vesicula alba, becomes obliterated towards the end of the second month of gestation. The inferior mesenteric artery arises from the front of the aorta to its left side, at about an inch or an inch and a half above the origins of the primitive iliacs ; it sometimes arises from the left primitive iliac, especially when the aorta has divided higher than usual; instances of the absence of this artery are very rare, but interest- ing as presenting an example of the normal condition in birds and reptiles, in which the inferior mesenteric artery is much reduced in size or entirely absent. llie inferior mesenteric artery runs obliquely downwards and to the left, and gets between the layers of the left iliac meso-colon, where it divides into many branches, distributed to the left portion, and sigmoid flexure of the colon and the rectum ; the superior branches are dis- tributed to the descending portion and sigmoid flexure of the colon, and are called left colic arteries, while the lower branches go to the rectum under the name of superior heemor- rhoidal arteries. The left colic arteries are three in number, the superior, middle, and in- ferior. The superior left colic is the largest of the three; it arises from the inferior mesen- teric immediately after its origin, passes trans- versely to the left, and divides near the left lumbar colon into two branches, one of which ascends to the transverse meso-colon, and anastomoses with the colica media of the supe- rior mesenteric; the other branch descends towards the left iliac meso-colon, where it anastomoses with the ascending branch of the middle left colic. The ?niddle left colic is sometimes a branch of the preceding. It divides into two branches; one ascends along the left colon, and anas- tomoses with the descending branch of the left superior colic; the other, inferior, smaller com- municates with the ascending branch of the left inferior colic. The iiferior left colic goes to the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and soon divides into two branches; one superior anastomoses by an arch with the descending branch of the preceding, and the other inferior meets a branch of the haemorrhoidal in the meso-rectum. They are distributed to the intestine in a similar manner with the branches of the right colic arteries, as already described. When the inferior mesenteric has given oflT the colic arteries, it diminishes, takes a perpen- dicular direction, and reaches the posteror sur- face of the rectum lodged between the layers of the meso-rectum, here it takes the name o{ superior hemorrhoidal artery. It soon divides into two branches, aright and left, which apply them- selves to the sides of the rectum, sending branches backwards and forwards round that intestine, by which they communicate with each other, and anastomose below with the middle and inferior hsemorrhoidal arteries; some branches anastomose with the lateral sacral of the internal iliac. The lateral branches of the abdominal aorta consist of the capsular, renal or emulgent, spermatic arteries, small twigs to the ureters and adipose substance in the vicinity of the aorta, and the four pairs of lumbar arteries. For an account of the capsular, emulgent, and sper- matic arteries we must refer to the articles Renal Capsule, Kidney, and Testicle. The lumbar arteries are four in number on each side (fig. 78,f); they arise from the lateral and posterior part of the aorta nearly at right angles, they pass outwards across the middle of the bodies of the four superior lumbar or abdo- minal vertebra to the roots of their transverse processes, covered by the psoas muscle and the crura of the diaphragm. When the lumbar arteries have reached the roots of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, they divide each into two branches, one posterior and the other anterior. The posterior or dorsal branches are smaller and pass backwards between the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, opposite the intervertebral foramina, where they each send a branch inwards to the spinal cord and cauda equina; they then plunge into the substance of